US	52437017	RNRC2XS12NDLR	0821762966	166681032	Enduring Love (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	ON THE BACK: <br />She Walked Out On Him... <br />Twelve years ago.  Brand Carendon's future was bright with the promise of college and athletic success, even though all he wanted was to spend the rest of his life with Dani Murdock, the girl from the wrong side of the tracks.  Dani gave Brand a pure and passionate love he thought would last forever.  Yet shortly after they were married she disappeared, leaving nothing but memories--and taking all of his heart. <br /> <br />...But He Never Gave Up On Their Love <br />Now a man of fame and fortune, Brand learns the truth about Dani's sudden departure when he meets eleven-year-old David, the son he never knew he had.  Denied the chance to be a father to his child all these years, he feels furious and betrayed by Dani.  Still, he cannot deny the electricity still crackling between them, or how right she feels in his arms.  With Dani and David back in his life, Brand vows to make up for lost time.  But can desire alone build a bridge between the past and the present--and bring back the magic of yesterday? <br /> <br />IN MY OPINION: <br />If someone asked me what theme I hate in a book it would be the dreaded secret baby, which is why it really surprised me when I fell in love with this book. Superstar NFL Quarterback Brand Carendon is shocked to find out he has a eleven year old son David, with old love Dani Murdock. He wants his son, but because of his career the only way to protect David and Danni, is for him and Danni to marry. This is not a typical secret baby story. Brand is not like most hero's that would forgive and forget and even take on some of the blame, oh no, he is royally ticked at Danni and is not shy about telling her that he doesn't trust her. However, somewhere along the way as a reader I fell for Danni and so did Brand. When you read about Brand's mom a lot falls into place. She makes the wicked witch of the west look like Santa Clause.  And Brand's daughter from his first marriage is only six, but she is a mini replica of Brand's mother.  Thank goodness Dani has come into her life, so that she and Brand can show this little girl the love and happiness she has been missing.  And David really blossoms under his father's love and attention. The family that Dani and Brand has built will be put to the test when they return to their hometown.  This is truly a story of Enduring Love and it is one of those books that I always pull off the shelf when I want a guaranteed good read.	2004-12-21
US	52437017	R3JNHXSHTKNQCE	0373217501	150951935	Close Proximity	Books	4	5	5	N	N	:)	Libby Corbett is a high-powered attorney and she is now facing the case of her life.  Her father David has been charged with contaminating the water at the Hopechest ranch.  Libby knows that her dad is innocent, but she has a long way to go to prove it.  It seems that Libby is alone in her fight until Rafe James enters the picture.   <br /> <br />Rafe's brother River was in the first Colton series book (Beloved Wolf) and his sister Cheyenne was in yet another book (Wed to the Witness).  Rafe lives on the Crooked Arrow Indian Reservation and is a private investigator.  Rafe knows that David is a good man who has done many good things for the people living on the reservation.  Rafe will do whatever he can to help Libby prove that her father is innocent.  Rafe realizes that this case is more dangerous than he first thought.  Rafe knows that he will protect Libby at all costs, but what he did not count on were his feelings for her.  Rafe has had a very troubled childhood and does not feel that he can have a future with Libby.  Unfortunately, it may take him almost losing Libby before he realizes what he is throwing away. <br /> <br />Many characters from the previous books in the Colton series show up again in this story.  I look forward to Blake Fallon's story next (A Hasty Wedding).	2004-08-07
US	52437017	R2I4HUAQDNF4T8	0373273584	695069055	Dangerous Illusion (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1288)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	\\"Non-official hunter-gatherer spies in a network only the top brass of any government knew existed, in a world few dared enter.  The shadowy world of the Nighthawks.\\"<br />Dangerous Illusion is the third book in Melissa James NightHawk series.<br />From the back of the book:<BR>Secret agent Brendan McCall had only a few days to find and protect beautiful Elizabeth Silver, the love he'd lost ten years ago, now on the run from an international killer.  Yet when he found her, she denied her true identity, forcing McCall to resort to more seductive tactics to get to the truth-before time ran out.<br />Life on the run had changed Beth, formerly known as wealthy politician's daughter Delia de Souza.  Years spent in hiding had destroyed her ability to trust, yet being in Brendan's arms once again made it impossible to lie.  But how could she confess the truth when that would put the man that she'd always loved right in a killer's crosshairs?<br />In my opinion:<br />Delia de Souza is the wife of the bad guy in Can you Forget? (the second book in the Nighthawk series).  It is Brendan's assignment to find Delia and her son, protect them and get the evidence she is hiding that will send Robert Falcone (the bad guy) to the electric chair.  There was just one big problem--once Brendan finds Delia he has to confirm that it is her and not her cousin Ana.  This is were the story gets a bit frustrating.<br />Brendan and Delia met many years ago when they were both young.  Brendan has always carried a torch for Delia, so this assignment is personal to him.  When his boss tells him to go find a woman going by the name Elizabeth Silver and identify her as Delia de Souza, it should be a piece of cake right?  Well, no that is so wrong.  You see Delia has a cousin named Ana and apparently they look exactly alike.  So, Brendan has to determine if this woman is really who she claims to be-Elizabeth (Beth) Silver, or if she is really Delia, or even Ana.  I can go along with this, but not for almost a hundred pages.  Around fifty pages I was thinking,  enough already just tell the man who you are and move on.  Finally, Brendan and the rest of the Nighthawks decide to just assume that she is Delia since they are almost sure that she is--and that's when the action picks up and the page turner begins.  <br />\\"Beth\\" is determined not to trust anyone, not even Brendan, until he proves he is telling the truth.  But, even when she is almost sure she can trust him she decides she can't tell him to protect him.  She repeatedly tries to escape without him noticing, of course, she doesn't realize that escaping is impossible, hello, he is a Nighthawk.  (By the way all of this is on the back of the book, so I am not giving anything away)<br />Once the action picked up I truly enjoyed this book.  A real touching moment for me was when Beth realized what her choices had cost other people.  That by hiding out and protecting herself and her son--other people were paying the price.  It was such a shattering moment for her--very touching and finally I felt connected to Beth in a way that I hadn't so far in the story.  In the end I believe that Danny and Brendan where the real scene stealers--I loved this \\"father/son\\" duo.  Danny is so cute and you could feel this little boys desire to just have a normal life with both a mummy and a daddy.<br />Despite my reservations at the beginning of the story this book was a great addition to the Nighthawk series.  It also wrapped up the \\"mission\\" that started in Who Do You Trust? or did it? (hmm, I wonder if this mission is actually complete).  It was also good to read about some of the past operatives, especially the ones that have had previous books. Getting a glimpse of Mitch and Lissa as a family was something that I was definitely glad to see.  I am curious to see who will be the next operative to get their own book. <br />--After completing the book I now realize the beginning of the story was an attempt to explain the life that Beth has had to lead in order to protect both her and her son because of one man's obsession.  Every move she made was to keep them safe.  It was also a chance to explain the history between Beth and Brendan and a chance for the two of them to connect again before the action heated up.  So, if you get frustrated as I did, hang in there because it's worth it. <br />--Another conclusion I came to was that this author seems to have a major James Bond fetish, but in a good way.  Brendan's plan to test Beth was brilliant (if a bit underhanded), it was a major James Bond moment.  :)	2004-05-15
US	52437017	R11VORC8G7VN4F	0373272766	112491119	Who Do You Trust? : Nighthawks (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1206)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	&quot;Non-official hunter-gatherer spies in a network only the top brass of any government knew existed, in a world few dared enter.  The shadowy world of the Nighthawks.&quot;<br />Who Do You Trust? is the first book in Melissa James NightHawk series.<br />From the back of the book:<BR>Two images kept Mitch McCluskey fighting for life on the secret mission he'd sworn would be his last: reuniting with his sons...and seeing sweet Melissa Carroll.  Without hesitation, his childhood friend had made her home his boys', but Mitch sensed that some man had made Lissa doubt her desirability...just as someone was making her fear the last person who would ever hurt her.<br />Him.<br />Lissa wanted to believe that Mitch was one of the good guys, just as she wanted to believe that the feral look in his eyes was for a passion fifteen years postponed.  But despite his beloved familiarity, Mitch was a stranger she'd been warned not to trust.  Problem was, her heart wasn't responding to the warning.<br />In my opinion:<BR>Mitch thought that he was done with the Nighthawks-that he completed his last mission.  He was excited to finally be going home and to be reunited with his two boys.  His sons were currently being cared for by his best friend and the love of his life, Lissa.  Mitch has always loved Lissa, but was never able to tell her, so she married their childhood friend-Tim.  Lissa has been divorced from Tim for six years, but of course Mitch doesn't know that since he has been gone for the past twelve years (the day she married Tim).<br />Now Mitch is back, he wants his boys and he wants Lissa.  There are several obstacles in their way however.  One is Lissa's low self-esteem.  Her marriage was, um, not good (and I will leave it at that).  She is so full of doubt that Mitch could ever love her, yet she has become a mother to his boys and doesn't want to lose them (at times I don't think she considers Mitch's rights or feelings toward his boys).  But, at the moment their biggest problem is an unknown person who makes Lissa doubt Mitch and the man that she believes him to be.  Mitch must not only prove to Lissa that she can trust him, but that the love that he has for her is honest and pure, and all the while try to keep them and their family safe from this unknown enemy.  <br />This is only Melissa James second book--(Her Galahad is still my favorite) however, Who Do you Trust? is a good beginning for her Nighthawk series.  In this book we learn about the Nighthawks and the &quot;names&quot; of many of the operatives.  Mitch's job is important in this book, but it his personal life both past and present are the core of this story.  For me, the enemy was unexpected and it fit.  It also brought Mitch's past more into focus (you will probably have to read it to understand).  There were a couple of things that did not work for me.  One-Lissa being a small town mother of three one day and a field operative the next.  No real training or experience that would prepare her for the type of missions that the operatives of Nighthawk experience.  Two-Personally, I would have loved to have read more about Mitch, the father.  I wanted more &quot;glimpses&quot; of him as a father and family man.  I may be in the minority on that point, but it is just my personal opinion.  This is still a very good action packed book and a strong beginning for the Nighthawk series and I can't wait to read the next book-Can You Forget?.	2004-05-13
US	52437017	R1IWRHYHM7J4NK	0373273428	729196108	Can You Forget? : Nighthawk (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1272)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	\\"Non-official hunter-gatherer spies in a network only the top brass of any government knew existed, in a world few dared enter.  The shadowy world of the Nighthawks.\\"<br />Can you Forget? is the second book in Melissa James Nighthawk series.  <br />From the back of the book:<BR>Former Nighthawk operative Tallan \\"Irish\\" O'Rierdan had never intended to accept another assignment--until the woman who had long haunted his dreams returned and made him an offer he couldn't refuse.  An offer that put both of their lives in grave danger...<br />Fellow agent Mary-Anne Poole was the childhood sweetheart he'd long ago been forced to leave...and now she was his wife.  Because the only way these two agents could infiltrate the closely guarded estate of an international killer-and survive-was to convince their target that their scorching passion was real.  But would their marriage of convenience heal the wounds of their past-and give them a chance at a future?<br />In my opinion:<BR>Oh, Tallan!  The first couple of chapters were heartbreaking.  Ms. James has definitely set Tallan up to be a tortured hero.  With the added bonus of this being a Beauty and the Beast story.  And as with any Beauty and the Beast story the \\"Beast\\" usually suffers from low self-esteem and can never really believe that the \\"Beauty\\" loves them.  What makes this book unusual is that both the hero and heroine have been in the role of the \\"beast\\" and both have been in the role of the \\"beauty\\".  Very interesting.<br />Tallan was the highschool football player hunk, and Mary-Anne was the overweight shy girl that truly loved him.  Tal loved Mary-Anne, but because of a force beyond their control (Ginny) they couldn't be together.  Now years have gone by and the roles have reversed-Tal is battered and scarred and Mary-Anne is a bombshell.  Both are operatives and they are asked to come together in the most important dangerous mission of their lives.  <br />I love the fact that this book is so closely linked to thefirst book in the series Who do you Trust?  As a matter of fact, the story in Can you Forget? is a direct result of what happened in Who do you Trust?.  In the end of Who do you Trust? we learn who the bad guy is (I won't mention his name in case some of you have not read the first book yet).  I will say that the bad guy in this book is the same man and he is just as evil, maybe even more so, and he is looking for revenge.  That is where Tallan and Mary-Anne come in, it is their job to take this guy down.  For Tal and Mary-Anne this mission is personal in many ways.  Tal wants revenge for the personal physical damage this man has inflicted on him and other operatives.  Tallan and Mary-Anne also share a past, and their feelings for each other have never gone away.  Which makes the story very interesting considering they have to get married to pull off this mission.  Sparks fly-and the sexual tension between the two practically leaps off the page.  I really enjoyed this book and was rooting for the couple the whole way.  At times I wanted to scream at them for letting their insecurities get in the way, but otherwise I was trying to read as fast as possible to see what happens next.  In Who do you Trust, it seems that the mission at times overtook the story, but in Can you Forget the romance was always front and center.  I really liked this book and can't wait for the next book in the series, Dangerous Illusion.<br />**There have been moments that I really disliked Anson, but now my curiosity is peeked and I would love to read more about him.  I hope that it is the intent of the author to someday write his story.	2004-05-13
US	52437017	R2O6C7VJ82E3D5	0373272529	838216786	Her Galahad (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	I read reviews so that I can get a good idea what a book is about that way I know whether or not it is a book that I would want to read.  So, how do you write a review about a book that many people either loved or hated?<br />Her Galahad has so much--love, betrayal, prejudice, a tortured hero, Australian history (an aboriginal storyline),  and many secondary characters.  This book had a very unique storyline, it was so fresh and so new that, for me, it was a breath of fresh air.  I personally enjoyed this book.  I loved all of the action that was going on the many sub-plots and secondary characters, but admittedly it is not for everyone-especially for readers that like the &quot;cookie cutter&quot; plots and characters.  That is not an insult to any book, author, or reader.  I for one have many cookie cutter books on my shelves, but sometimes I like those books that are just so unique that you know you will never find another book like it (plot wise).  Does that make sense?  At the same time it is a bit disturbing to realize that this story is based on the true history of Australia.<br />Here is what it says on the back of the book:<br />Seven years ago, a pregnant Tessa Earldon had been passionately in love with her newlywed husband.  But she was told he was dead and was quickly pushed into an ill-fated marriage-and lost her child shortly thereafter.  Now divorced and on the run from her ex, when she hears the footsteps one dark night, she assumes they belong to her husband.  And she's right.  But she's wrong about which husband is pursuing her...<br />Six years ago, David Oliveri-aka-Jirrah McLaren-was about to claim his bride when her brother intercepted him, threw him in jail...and convinced Tessa that he was dead and to marry another.  Now Jirrah is a free man, and he's back to get what's his-his wife.  His child.  And revenge.  And not necessarily in that order.<br />My opinion:<br />I loved it!  I was hooked from the first page to the last.  At first, I didn't know whether I should be angry at Tessa for being so gullible or to feel sorry for her for all the lies her family told.  Tessa married David the love of her life, but shortly thereafter, her father and brother told her that David was dead.  A heartbroken Tessa believing the lies gave into her families pleas and married a man she didn't love.  Tessa was also pregnant at the time with David's baby.  Tessa gave birth, but the baby was quickly taken away and Tessa was told that her daughter had died.  Tessa now believes she not only lost the man that she loves, but the daughter that she so desperately wanted.  <br />Years later, divorced, and on the run from her ex-husband the last person that she expects to see is her dead husband David (who now goes by the name Jirrah).  Jirrah is angry and bitter over the crimes that Tessa's family has committed against him.  He wants revenge, but he also wants his daughter, the daughter that Tessa believes is dead.  Now it is just a matter of staying alive long enough to find their daughter and the evidence clearing Jirrah's name.<br />It seems like I am giving away a lot of information, but in truth, I have hardly given you the tip of the iceberg.  The story is very suspenseful and will have you quickly flipping pages to see what is going to happen next.  If you are looking for a fresh unique storyline with a fast pace than this is the book.  If you like a book that doesn't exactly fit the mold of your typical romance than, in my opinion, you should definitely read Her Galahad.<br />**I would love to see if Mrs. James could redeem Duncan in a story of his own....hmm, maybe someday we will get his story!  :)	2004-05-05
US	52437017	R3J39YBF1CB3ZO	0385337418	986337902	The Book of Joe	Books	5	3	6	N	N	:)	Whoever said you can never go home again was obviously talking about Joe Goffman. Joe left Bush Falls after he graduated from high school. Later he wrote a best-selling autobiographical novel called Bush Falls that was eventually made into a hit movie. To say that the citizens of Bush Falls were mad as heck is an understatement. They even tried to file a class action lawsuit against him. Joe immortalized many of the citizens of Bush Falls in his book and most not in a good way. Joe had a lot of anger towards the town and the people that live there and most of that anger comes across in his often comical and perverted portrayal of the people living in Bush Falls. He never planned on returning home, but life never works out they way you want it. Joe's dad has had a stroke and it is now time for Joe to go home and face the town, his family, and Carly-the only woman he ever loved. <br />Joe's homecoming is um, well, not a cause to celebrate as far as the town is concerned. Joe is one of the most hated men in town. Old women are throwing milkshakes at him and grown men are taking swings at him, while others seem happy verbally berating him. Joe's answer to everything is to respond with dry, quick-witted humor. The only people in town who seemed to be on Joe's side are his nephew, who helps Joe relive his youth and his best friend who also happens to be an unpopular person in town and just happens to be dying. Carly could be considered another person on Joe's side if he didn't constantly screw up the potential that they have for a future.<br />The one word I would use to describe this book is Blunt. This book strips away all pretense and packaging and your left with raw emotions. This story makes you laugh and cry at the same time. The reader wants to root for the hero, but at the same time smack him in the head for his behavior. This is an in your face book about both life and death. If I was disappointed with any aspect it would have been the ending. I would love to have known that Joe and Carly had a long happy future together and that Sean payed for his actions.<br />I understand that this is the author's second book. I have not read his other book and I probably would not have read this one if I had not won it, but I am glad that I did because I not only found a book that I thoroughly enjoyed, but I found an author that I would not hesitate to read again. So, thanks to both Bantam Dell Publishing Group for sending me the book and Jonathan Tropper for writing it.	2004-03-30
US	52437017	R31PWZ87X7LO8V	0345443225	517832798	Blind Run	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Ex-operative Ethan Decker has spent the last three years in his own personal living hell.  Because of his job, his five year old son was murdered, and Ethan blames himself.  Ethan felt he had no choice but to walk away from his life--leaving his grieving wife, Sydney, who has no idea that her son's death was not an accident.  <BR>Ethan now lives in the New Mexico desert alone, miserable, and drowning in guilt.  Than to his disgust, Anna Kelsey another operative that he believed dead, shows up with two children.  Anna says she needs Ethan's help to protect the children, but he wants nothing to do with her or the kids.  Unfortunately, Anna is murdered possibly by the same man that killed Ethan's son.  Now Ethan must figure out why Anna was running with the children and at the same time he must protect his ex-wife, who he is afraid is in grave danger.  <BR>Of course, nothing in Ethan's life is easy.  Sydney wants nothing to do with him, but for the sake of the children she is willing to stick around, for now.  And the mystery surrounding the children is far more complicated than either of them suspected.  They discover that before Anna helped them escape, the children were living on an island and being experimented on.  And their are people that will do anything to get the two kids back and Ethan and Sydney will do anything to keep them and the other children on the island safe.  Ethan is also starting to suspect that the agency he worked for is also responsible for what is happening to the children on the island.  In the end, everything leads back to the island.  Ethan just has to make sure that he can keep them all alive long enough to get the answers they need and than get them all to a safe place.  He also wouldn't mind a second chance with his ex-wife.<br />The first thing to get my attention about this books was the beautiful cover.  The next was the characters.  I loved the hero, Ethan Decker.  The reader could &quot;feel&quot; his pain at the loss of his son and the separation from his ex-wife.  And, although I cared for Sydney I did not feel as if I knew her as well as Ethan, but that is not surprising since Ethan is the main character of the book and the story pretty much revolves around his actions.  I also liked that the children played such an important part of the story, especially Danny and Callie.  The book is fast-paced with a strong plot and a lot of action, suspense, and mystery.  This is definitely a book that you will want to read cover to cover.  The hardest part for me was the ending.  I kept thinking-what happened to Sydney, Ethan, and the children?  However, the ending does give the author the opportunity to write more books about these characters with the children as the lead characters (hint, hint).  I would love to find out what happens to these kids and how they cope with what happened to them on the island and the repercussions from the &quot;experiments&quot; that were performed on them.  Also, I would love to know how Sydney and Ethan move on with their lives.  This was a very strong first book for the author and I look forward to reading her next book--Out Of Reach.	2004-02-13
US	52437017	R3REXSG3FFIQ9W	0373217447	240037860	Sweet Child of Mine	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	SWEET CHILD OF MINE<BR>Mayor Michael Longstreet has his hands full trying to keep the citizens of Prosperino from panicking.  The water at the Hopechest ranch has been contaminated and children are getting sick.  If the contamination reaches the towns water supply there could be a major crisis.  As if that were not enough for Michael to worry about, his family is demanding that he find himself a bride.  Michael loves his mom and his deathly ill father, but he never planned to get married again.  Michael was married once and his wife and unborn baby died and he blames himself for their death.  No, Michael was never getting married again.  At least that was what he thought until he heard Suzanne Jorgenson's own personal crisis.<br />Suzanne was a counselor at Hopechest ranch and is passionate about her work.  Often she finds herself butting heads with the Mayor.  Suzanne often leads with her heart and lets her temper get the best of her.  But now Suzanne needs help and the last person she expects to help her is the Mayor himself.  Suzanne gave up her son for adoption ten years ago, but now has the chance to get him back.  The only thing that Suzanne has to do to get her son is to get married.  <br />Michael needs a wife to make his dying father happy and Suzanne needs a husband to get her son.  Michael and Suzanne decide to get married for the sake of the people they love.  Even before they tie the knot it is a toss up whether it will be a marriage made in heaven or hell.  These two are constantly at each others throat.  The sexual tension between them is obvious to everyone including them.  It is just a matter of time until they give in to the feelings they have for one another.  If you are not interested in reading all of the book in the Colton series that is fine this one stands on its own.  I would, however, recommend that you read Protecting Peggy since it is directly related to the mystery surrounding the contaminated water.	2004-02-07
US	52437017	R17V66RAO8IA89	0373387199	120847512	A Hasty Wedding (Coltons)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	:)	A HASTY WEDDING<BR>Blake Fallon has been a very known character throughout the entire Colton series.  In the earlier books Blake's father tried twice to kill Joe Colton.  Blake loves the entire Colton family and they treat him like part of their family, so he has a lot of guilt over what his father did.  He now has other concerns though because someone has contaminated the water at Hopechest ranch.  Blake runs the Hopechest ranch and is angry that someone would hurt the children that live there.  <br />Holly Lamb works at the Hopechest ranch as Blake's assistant.  Holly loves her job and the kids, but even more than that she loves her boss.  The only problem is that Blake only sees Holly as his assistant and nothing more.  That is until Holly undergoes a transformation from a wall flower to a princess.  Blake finally starts to notice Holly as not just his assistant, but as a woman that he would like to get to know better.  <BR>As Blake and Holly become closer, the investigation into the water contamination is coming to an end.  Blake and Holly did not think that anything could be worse than someone contaminating the water.  However, once they discover who is behind the contamination, things are bound to get a lot worse before they get better.<br />The story of Holly and Blake can stand on its own if you do not want to read all of the previous books in the series.  However, I would recommend that you read Protecting Peggy, Sweet Child of Mine, and Close Proximity.  These three books plus A Hasty Wedding all surround the controversy over the water contamination.  Enjoy.	2004-01-31
US	52437017	R9KID1VLUVRDN	0373387164	605317494	Protecting Peggy (Coltons)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	:)	As if the Coltons have not had their share of problems already, now someone is endangering the lives of the kids and employees at the Hopechest Ranch.  Animals are dying and the children are getting sick from the water.  The EPA has sent someone out to test the water, but the director at Hopechest (Blake Fallon) feels that the man is not doing his job.  Blake calls his friend and FBI agent Rory Sinclair.  Rory is not only a special agent, but a chemist.  Rory takes time off from the agency to fly to Prosperino, and help uncover the truth.  Rory decides that it is best if no one knows he is an FBI agent, and that includes Peggy Honeywell, the owner of the guest house at which he is staying.<br />Peggy is a widow with a four-year-old daughter.  Her husband was a cop who died in the line of duty.  Peggy has sworn that she will never again get involved with a cop.  Peggy finds herself extremely attracted to the scientist that is staying in her guest house.  Peggy is not the only one drawn to Rory, but her daughter is taken with the man as well.  Rory knows what Peggy's feelings are about dating cops.  He knows that he should avoid both her and her daughter.  Day by day the attraction and sexual tension between the two heats up.  Rory knows that for her own protection he cannot tell her that he is an FBI agent.  Peggy knows that she is falling in love with Rory, but what happens when she finds out that he is a cop.  <br />This book sets up yet another mystery in the Colton series.  They do not mention many characters from the previous series except Joe and Colton.  The story of Peggy and Rory stands on its own, but sets up a mystery that leaves the reader anticipating the next story.	2003-11-20
US	52437017	R6G6R93MWC713	1551667223	326301014	Flamingo Diner	Books	5	14	14	N	N	:)	At first, when I read the title Flamingo Diner, I thought the book would lean towards comedy (don't ask me why). Then I read the blurb on the back and the comparison of the Flamingo Diner to the television show Cheers had me groaning (I hated that show). I then read the 'Dear Friends' letter by the author where it was made clear the issues in this book would be a bit more serious than her past books because the tragedy in this book is suicide. After reading this I wasn't even sure if I wanted to attempt to read this book. Nine years ago (although it seems like yesterday) my uncle took his own life, leaving behind a wonderful little girl and a heartbroken grieving family, including my mother, his sister. I seen the hell she went through and the strength that it took for her to go on with life. I was sure that this story would only leave me depressed, however, I won this book in a contest and felt obligated to read it (plus I loved the authors earlier work). So, I read it. I will be the first to tell you that I was surprised and thrilled at how much I enjoyed it. <br />The focus of this book is not about death and sadness, although it's certainly there. No, the focus is on life, love, family, friends, and community. Suicide is real and unfortunately happens everyday. Flamingo Diner focuses on the aftermath and the pieces that are left behind for loved ones to deal with. Along with the biggest question of all, something everyone wonders, WHY? Why would someone take their own life? Don Killian takes his own life. Now his family, friends, and the community must deal with the consequences. His wife Rosa falls into a deep depression. Jeff, his oldest son, falls apart. Andy, his youngest son, is suddenly wise beyond his years and tries to be the man of the family. Emma, his daughter and oldest child, now has everything put on her shoulders. She is going to need a lot of help. Who better than the man that has loved her most of his life, Police Chief Matt Atkins. <br />This story has so many wonderful elements. One is relationships. Rosa and Don's relationship was destroyed by lack of communication. Jeff and Marisol had a relationship that was presently unhealthy for both of them. Sylvia's marriage. Kim and Jolie's revolving door of men. The relationships between the people in the support group and their loved ones. And Emma and Matt--there is so much to say about them. Mostly, I loved the pure, unconditional, unselfish love that Matt had for Emma. Matt's love for Emma was like a breath of fresh air. I have to admit that occasionally I had to wonder if Matt deserved more than Emma. Emma's hesitation, doubts, and stubborn independence made me want to smack her at times. Any woman would be lucky to have someone like Matt in their lives. But, it's not just about relationships between men and women, but also relationships between siblings, mothers and children, friends, etc.. <br />Flamingo Diner is a story about death, but more importantly it is a story about Life! If I was disappointed with any aspect about the book it would be that the author did not include an Epilogue. I would love to have gotten a glimpse of this family and community a few years down the road, but perhaps in this case it was best that there wasn't one. Most Epilogue's show us a happily ever after for the characters, but in real life not everyone gets a happily ever after and Flamingo Diner is definitely a reflection of real life. Flamingo Diner was an enjoyable read that I would highly recommend. Thanks Sherryl!	2003-08-19
US	52437017	R1TL7RDABQRI5K	0373387156	843677440	The Hopechest Bride (The Coltons)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	:)	Emily Blair Colton is a character that has been with us since the very first book in the Colton series.  In the fist book (Beloved Wolf) someone tried to kill Emily in her own home.  Emily ran away and ended up in Wyoming.  In the following books in the series we learn that Emily suspects her 'mother' of trying to kill her.  She reaches out to her adoptive and foster siblings asking for their help in getting to the truth.  We learn that her 'mother' is really an imposter and indeed wants Emily dead.  In Wyoming Emily makes a new life for herself while her family tries to sort out the problems at home.  Emily makes new friends, including the town sheriff Toby Atkins.  In the previous book (Pregnant in Prosperino) Emily is attacked for the third time and Toby is killed trying to protect her.  That brings us to this book (The Hopechest Bride) where Emily is now home and safe with her family in Prosperino, California.  <br />Josh Atkins is hell-bent on revenge against the woman he feels is responsible for his brother's death.  Josh, who leaves the rodeo circuit and heads to Prosperino to confront Emily, never expected to feel guilty for his verbal attacks on her.  He also never expected to find himself attracted to her.  Josh is fifteen years older than Emily and knows he should resist her.  Not only that, but his brother Toby was in love with her.  Josh and Emily both have a lot of healing to do if they want to have a future together.  They must also learn to let the past go and make their peace with Toby.<br />This book brings back many characters from the previous books in the Colton series.  I enjoyed seeing everyone happy for a change, and even Meredith's therapist gets a happy ending.  If you have read the other books in the series than you will love this one.  I encourage you to buy the other books and read them first, but if not that is okay because this book can stand on its own.	2002-05-14
US	52437017	R2K3FKWNNIN42	0373387156	843677440	The Hopechest Bride (The Coltons)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	:)	Emily Blair Colton is a character that has been with us since the very first book in the Colton series.  In the fist book (Beloved Wolf) someone tried to kill Emily in her own home.  Emily ran away and ended up in Wyoming.  In the following books in the series we learn that Emily suspects her 'mother' of trying to kill her.  She reaches out to her adoptive and foster siblings asking for their help in getting to the truth.  We learn that her 'mother' is really an imposter and indeed wants Emily dead.  In Wyoming Emily makes a new life for herself while her family tries to sort out the problems at home.  Emily makes new friends, including the town sheriff Toby Atkins.  In the previous book (Pregnant in Prosperino) Emily is attacked for the third time and Toby is killed trying to protect her.  That brings us to this book (The Hopechest Bride) where Emily is now home and safe with her family in Prosperino, California.  <br />Josh Atkins is hell-bent on revenge against the woman he feels is responsible for his brother's death.  Josh, who leaves the rodeo circuit and heads to Prosperino to confront Emily, never expected to feel guilty for his verbal attacks on her.  He also never expected to find himself attracted to her.  Josh is fifteen years older than Emily and knows he should resist her.  Not only that, but his brother Toby was in love with her.  Josh and Emily both have a lot of healing to do if they want to have a future together.  They must also learn to let the past go and make their peace with Toby.<br />This book brings back many characters from the previous books in the Colton series.  I enjoyed seeing everyone happy for a change, and even Meredith's therapist gets a happy ending.  If you have read the other books in the series than you will love this one.  I encourage you to buy the other books and read them first, but if you not that is okay because this book can stand on its own.	2002-05-08
US	52437017	R3LDYKMGG212LZ	0373077009	916097060	Homecoming (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Did a beautiful woman's mysterious past hold the key to D.A. Jack MacAlister's latest case?  He was certain it did-and he needed A.J.'s testimony to send a ruthless kidnapper to prison.  But she couldn't remember what Jack needed to know.  In fact, A.J. couldn't remember anything at all...<BR>Consumed by desire, Jack yearned to protect A.J., to win her trust-to possess her, body and soul.  And somehow along the way, finding her real identity lost its urgency.  Jack knew exactly who she was: the woman he loved.<br />In my Opinon...<BR>'Homecoming' is the sequel to 'Our Child?' (the story of Carolyn and Drew).  In this book Carolyn's sister Annie, or A.J. as she is now called, is the only one who can help Jack put a kidnaper behind bars.   Jack is the D.A prosecuting the case that would put the man that kidnapped Annie and several other children away.  The only problem is that A.J. does not remember her younger years and does not want to know if she is Annie, the little girl kidnapped from her family.  A.J. just wants to continue her life the way that it is, as director of Hope house.  Jack is desperate to win his case and refuses to give up on A.J..  It is a constant battle of wills between A.J. and Jack, but they eventually manage to fall in love.  The truth does come out and A.J. is going to need Jack more than ever.  I did feel bad for A.J.'s therapist, Nick, who we learned from the previous book wanted a relationship with A.J. himself.  I look forward to the next book to read his story in 'Temporary Family'.	2002-04-30
US	52437017	R16MP20YAZYX2K	037307753X	89970670	Second Father (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 753)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Police Detective Marc Dalton had always secretly loved his best friend's wife.  Now Ginny was his best friend's widow and trying to raise her baby alone amidst the troubling allegations surrounding her husband's death.  Knowing he could no longer stand by in silence, Marc decided to offer Ginny his help...and his heart.<BR>Ginny had always seen Marc as a friend-a waonderful man who should already have settled down with a wife and children.  But now Marc was confessing he'd always been crazy about her, that he wanted to be a second father to her little girl.  How could Ginny resist such a tempting offer?  How could she betray her memories and succumb to another man's embrace?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>This book starts off with the scene where an officer gets killed in the previous book 'Temporary Family'.  The officer that gets killed is Joe-Ginny's husband and Marc's partner.  Detective Marc Dalton is the one that shows up at Ginny's doorstep to tell her that her husband is dead.  Almost a year later, Ginny is raising a daughter alone, a daughter that her husband never knew about.  Ginny was crushed when her husband was killed and the only thing that kept her going was her pregnancy and then the arrival of her daughter Hannah.  But, now she has time to start asking questions and she wants to know what happened to Joe.  She turns to the one person that she knew she could trust, her childhood friend, Marc.  Marc is also asking questions about his partners death.  Marc is being pressured by Internal Affairs to find out whether or not Joe was a dirty cop.  Marc has always loved Ginny and has fallen in love with her daughter as well.  To Joe's family's dismay, Marc and Ginny start spending a lot of time together.  Ginny feels guilty, but her feelings for Marc are to strong to be denied.  As they get closer to the truth, regarding Joe's death, the more danger that they are in.  Fortunatly, for Ginny and Hannah, they have a man like Marc on their side.I really enjoyed this book.  Everything was there, from Ginny's guilt over having feelings for another man (not to mention that he was her husband's partner), to the pressure from her dead husband's family, to the real bond that develops between Ginny, Hannah, and Marc.  I highly recommend this book and the next book by Sally Tyler Hayes, 'Wife, Mother...Lover' which is the story of Marc's new partner Mitch.	2002-04-30
US	52437017	R13ZV8SA890TF8	0373077386	185891486	Temporary Family (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Laura Sandoval loved young, orphaned Rico as if he were her own son.  But she knew the boy needed much more than a mother's loving arms.  For the once cheerful child was now refusing to speak, afraid of something-someone-that Laura could not discover.<BR>She knew of only one man to turn to: Nick Garrett.  But even as the self-exiled doctor attempted to unlock Rico's hidden fears, danger came calling.  And suddenly this makeshift family of three was on the run.<BR>Their only clue existed in the mind of a silent child.  Their only chance meant staying together.  Their only recourse was to fall in love.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Nick who played an important role as Annie's therapist in 'Our Child?' and 'Homecoming' is back in this book.  Nick is on an emotional edge in this book.  He feels guilty for the death of a teenage boy and has distanced himself from everyone and everything.  Nick lives this way for almost a year before he gives in to A.J., an old friend, and agrees to talk to a young boy that is staying at Hope House.  Unfortunately, the child is traumatized and refuses to speak.  His teacher, Laura,  shows up and is determined to take Rico home with her.  Laura knows that she needs help if she is going to figure out what Rico is so afraid of.  Laura knows of only one person to turn to, Nick.  Nick is reluctant to get involved because he has doubts about his own abilities as a psychiatrist.  He eventually gives in and agrees to help Rico, which in turn, helps Nick regain his confidence.  When the very thing that Rico fears comes after him and puts all three of them in danger, they take off.  Along the way the three become a family, but will it last after the danger is gone?  This is a story of guilt, friendhip, family, and love.  It also has a good dose of danger and mystery, which sets us up for the next book, 'Second Father'.  In 'Second Father' we learn more about the 'dirty cops' behind Rico's mothers death.	2002-04-30
US	52437017	R18K0766JOA97B	0373076711	444271872	Our Child? (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 671)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>The disappearance of her beloved little sister had torn Carolyn McKay's world apart and led her to dedicate her life to the cause of missing children.  Now, ten years later, another crime had brought back all the anguish and unsolved, unforgotten tragedy-and reunited her with a man she'd prayed never to see again...<BR>Drew Delaney was a federal agent now, and he believed this new kidnapping was linked to her sister's.  But even that terrifying thought was overshadowed by Carolyn's darkest, most secret fear, the fear that this man she'd never stopped loving would learn of another child-the child she'd never told him was his...<br />In my Opinion...<BR>As teenagers Carolyn and Drew thought they had their whole lives in front of them.  They loved each other very much.  Carolyn's parents did not like Drew at all and they judged him by the sins of his family.  Carolyn's parents could not keep Carolyn from loving Drew.  But one day everything changed when Carolyn's younger sister Annie disappeared.  Not even Carolyn and Drew's love could keep them together.  Drew left town never knowing that Carolyn was pregnant.  Now ten years later Drew is an FBI agent and one of his cases is linked to Annie's kidnapping.  He returns to his hometown and to Carolyn.  The love is still there and stronger than ever.  But what happens when Drew discovers that he has a son that he never knew about.  This is definetly an emotional read filled with family, friendship, and love.  However, I had a hard time with this book and it was only because of my strong belief that every man has a right to know that he fathered a child.  Drew was never told about his son and to me that is simply unforgivable.  I am looking forward to the next book in the series, 'Homecoming' which is Annie's story.	2002-04-30
US	52437017	R19GI1P8K9EYGO	0373076118	718617023	Not His Wife (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Brian Sandelle was determined to watch his ex-fiancee marry another man.  But he couldn't do it alone.  He'd recruited Shelly Wilkerson, lifelong friend, to be by his side...to help him pick up the pieces of his lonely life.  If only he knew how hard this would be for Shelly...<BR>Shelly never expected to find danger at the end of the aisle.  But mysterious phone calls and veiled threats were not enough to keep her from helping Brian-the man she'd adored forever.  Then she began to wonder: just how much would she have to sacrifice for a single night in this man's arms?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>'Not his Wife' is the sequel to 'Days gone By' (the story of Rebecca and Tucker).  In this book Brian, who was dumped by Rebecca in the previous book, is determined to see Tucker and Rebecca get married.  But, there was no way that he would show up alone, so he asked his best friend Shelly to go with him.  Shelly had loved Brian all her life, but he never saw her as anything more than a friend.  Shelly thought that she could go with Brian to the wedding and than try to put her feelings for him behind her.  Neither of them could have known how that one trip would change their lives forever.  On the way to the wedding their plane crashes and they barely survive.  They still make it to the wedding, but a mixture of pain pills and alcohol cause Brian to see Shelly in a whole new way.  Brian figures that repairing his friendship with Shelly is his biggest concern.  But, after discovering that their plane crash was no accident he quickly learns that keeping him and Shelly alive is his top priority.  Brian and Shelly become closer to one another as the days go by.  Shelly hopes that if they survive to have a future that Brian will want to share it with her.    I enjoyed this story.  It was fast-paced and filled with mystery, danger, friendship, and romance.  I would recommend that you read Rebecca and Tuckers story in 'Days gone By' first.	2002-04-29
US	52437017	R2GN23TMXA01M8	0373075499	844215987	Days Gone By (Silhoutte Intimate Moments #549)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Tucker Mallory wasn't looking for miracles when he returned to his hometown after six years, just a chance to get to know his son.  And maybe, just maybe, a chance to make up for some of the damage he'd done when he walked away from his marriage without a backward glance...<BR>Rebecca Harwell Mallory knew she couldn't deny her child the chance to have a father for the first time in his young life.  And everything about Tucker seemed to have changed somehow-everything, that is, except the devastating effect he had always had on her.<BR>But how could she trust her son's happiness-or her own fragile heart again-to this man who'd hurt her so many years ago?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Tucker grew up with parents that used him.  His parents hated each other and were always fighting while they were married.  After the divorce they were constantly battling to outdo each other and they put Tucker in the middle.  So, when Tucker's marriage fell apart he thought that the best thing he could do was make a clean break from his ex-wife and son.  Tucker loved them, but he was sure that his wife, Rebecca, was in love with her highschool sweetheart Brian.  Tucker was sure that Brian would be a better father to Sammy.  Six years later Tucker gets a picture in the mail of a very sad Sammy at his birthday party.  Tucker is now having doubts about leaving them six years ago.  He decides that it is time to return home and find out what is wrong with his little boy and try to be a part of his life.  Tucker's return changes a lot of lives.  Rebecca breaks off her six year engagement to Brian.  Sammy now has a father, but is afraid that Tucker will not stick around.  Rebecca and Tucker realize that the old feelings they had for each other have never gone away.  They need to put the past behind them and deal with the present if they want to have a future.  This is a good story that involves family, forgiveness, friendship, and love.  I really enjoy this book and look forward to reading Brian's story in 'Not His Wife'.	2002-04-29
US	52437017	R2LC4H00OHQCA4	0373707959	56833466	The Want Ad (Harlequin Superromance No. 795)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>(Want Ad) Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Jillian Birmingham please call her brother collect 212-555-1427.<br />Trouble was, Jillian Birmingham didn't have a brother.  She wasn't even Jillian Birmingham anymore.  She was April Kelly-and she'd do anything to prove her parents innocent of a long-ago crime.  Paul Gardiner was a man on a mission.  His father had been killed in a bombing allegedly masterminded by April's father.  So why would he want to prove Colin Birmingham innocent?  But he said he had proof.  Proof April couldn't ignore.  So she phoned him and begun the greatest adventure-and the greatest love-of her life!<br />In my Opinion...<BR>All Paul wanted was to find the person responsible for his father's murder.  Now as a newspaper reporter he has the means to find out.  He stumbles across information that he believes might prove Colin Birmingham innocent.  But, for Paul to dig any deeper he needs Colin's help, and to find Colin, he must find Jillian.  Paul places the ad in the hopes of Jillian responding.  Luckily, she does but she is hesitant to believe Paul.  Jillian (April) decides that for her father's sake she must hear the proof that Paul says he has.<BR>Jillian and Paul team up to find the people really responsible for the bombing that killed Paul's father and many others.  Colin belonged to AWV (Americans for Withdrawl from Vietnam) and he is sure that the real murderer was also a member.  Jillian and Paul's search for the truth puts them in constant danger.  They also fall in love along the way.  This is a story filled with romance, mystery, and danger.  I enjoyed it and I think others will too.	2002-04-21
US	52437017	RGK05ZTHCZASN	0373074786	493433341	Deep In The Heart (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Ten years of anger melted into desire the moment U.S. Marshal Grant Stephens spied fragile Beth Channing.  Then reality snapped in.  Nothing had changed: his ex-wife was still the spoiled little rich girl he'd once known...and told himself he hated.  But when he discovered  that someone was out to kill him, and that Beth was caught in the cross fire, he moved in with her to protect her--and he had no intention of sleeping on the couch...<BR>Beth didn't know whether to laugh or cry when Grant moved in.  His disturbing presence warmed her, but he threatened the walls she'd painstakingly built around her heart.  And now danger surrounded them both.  Was it possible fate had brought them back together only to tear them apart?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Grant never planned to return home, but fate stepped in when one of the towns people died.  Grant was asked to return home for the reading of the will.  He was shocked to learn that he and his ex-wife Beth both inherited a ranch and its land.  First, they must meet the conditions of the will and live together for a year.  Grant was a U.S. Marshal and right in the middle of an important case and had no intention of staying for a year let alone staying with his ex-wife.  Beth was not any happier to see Grant than he was to see her.  She was hurt when he left her the first time and he did not think that she could survive it again.  Neither of them have a choice when a contract is put out on Grant's life.  Grant only planned to protect Beth, not seduce her.  Grant and Beth become closer as the days go by.  The danger also heats up.  If they survive a killer they might have a second chance at a life together.  This was a good book.  There is an element of romance and danger.  Good read-try it.	2002-04-20
US	52437017	R1GLKHPI2R15H8	0373055757	321544709	Smiles	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	SMILES<BR>From the back...<BR>Sam Mitchell usually considered a visit to the dentist a date with disaster.  Then he landed in the office of the delectable Dr. Laura Peters.  Sam thought that Laura was the most beautiful woman ever to wield a toothbrush.  But what could a blue-collar guy like himself ever hope to offer an elegant, educated woman like her?<BR>Laura had taken one look at Sam and known that underneath his \\"just plain folks\\" exterior was a sexy, self-assured man.  Now if only she could live up to his expectations!  Because deep down, classy Laura was just a girl from the wrong side of town--who never dreamed she'd be worthy of a man like Sam.<br />In My Opinion...<BR>Sam works at the family business with his two brothers.  Everyone in town sees Sam as a handsome, friendly, and funny guy.  Women usually flock to Sam, but he has never found one that he would want to love forever.  That is until he meets Dr. Laura Peters.  It's funny because Sam hates dentists and gets queasy just going into a dentist office.  Sam is instantly attracted to Laura the first time he sees her.  Sam never questions his feelings for her until his meddling brother points out that Laura is way out of his league.  She is a beautiful college-educated dentist with a town house and a BMW.  Sam starts to question whether or not he could ever be enough for Laura.  Several incidents lead Sam to believe that maybe Laura is ashamed of having him for a boyfriend.  Doubts continue to doom their relationship until Laura can trust Sam enough to open up and tell him about her past.  Laura must also trust Sam to help her with her current problems if they are to have a chance at a future together.  This is a very quick enjoyable romantic read.	2002-04-20
US	52437017	RKZBOVUKB0XBH	0373118090	371575594	Forgotten Husband (Top Author)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>They said he was her husband...But Elise didn't feel married.  Nor did she feel pregnant...The accident had destroyed all memory of the past few months for her and, no matter how hard she tried, she couldn't remember pledging her heart and soul to this rich, gorgeous, formidably sophisticated stranger; Alejandro Santanas.<BR>Elise sensed the chemistry between them, sparks of secret passion that made her feel alive.  But was she in love with him-and he with her?  Had she lost the most precious part of her life-forever?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>The back of the book pretty much describes the plot of the story.  Elise was in a car accident that robs her of her memory.  The book starts with her in the hospital struggling over her feelings towards the man that she is told is her husband.  Alejandro is a very handsome powerful man.  The problem is that Elise does not feel married to him and she certainly does not feel pregnant.  When she is released from the hospital she really does not have any choice but to go home with Alejandro.  Both Elise and Alejandro become closer as the days go by, but what will happen when she regains her memory.   Once Elise's memory returns the truth comes out and that truth could shatter her marriage.  I liked this story, but I believe that it could have been so much better if we had gotten Alejandro's point of view.  The entire story was told through Elise.  Other than that this was a quick, short, enjoyable read.	2002-04-20
US	52437017	R21X4WG3CF8IQW	0373079508	287464537	Logan'S Bride (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Katrina Polinari couldn't seem to escape her family ties.  Though she'd made good as a police officer, to many people she was still linked with the sins of her father.<BR>Boyd Logan was hot on the trail of an organized crime figure, and he believed Katrina held the key to tracking him down...<BR>Fate threw them together as make-believe lovers.  Would passion unite them for real-and for good?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Katrina has tried all her life to prove to the world that she is better than her family.  She even became a cop so that she could put away the bad guys.  Many generations of Katrina's family worked as hitman for the mob, including her father and brother who are now dead.  Now Katrina has learned that the mob has put out a contract on her aunt.  When Katrina's aunt called to ask for help, she knew that she would help her.  Katrina had no idea that by helping her aunt she would not only put her career in danger, but also her life.  Boyd Logan works for the FBI and his current case is to bring down the same mobster that put out the contract on Katrina's aunt.  When Boyd sees Katrina entering the mobster's home he decides to stick close to her in case she is involved with the any of the mobsters dealings.  Katrina is hurt when she discovers that her boss, co-workers, and the FBI have doubts about which side of the law she is on.  Katrina agrees to stick close to Boyd not only to help her aunt, but to prove to everyone that she is one of the good guys.  Katrina and Boyd never planned to get romantically involved with one another.  Katrina knew that because of her family people would always doubt her, and if she were to get involved with Boyd they would doubt him too.  Katrina tries hard to fight her feelings for Boyd, but what she doesn't count on is Boyd's stubborn refusal to let her go.  This is an enjoyable book with plenty of romance and suspense.  Although I found Katrina a little too stubborn for her own good, I still enjoyed her spirit and determination to seperate herself from her criminal family.  I liked this book and look forward to reading the stories about Logan's brothers.	2002-04-20
US	52437017	RJKIHD3IFXPEL	0373079028	176138130	Code Name:  Cowboy  (Mustang Montana) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	CODE NAME: COWBOY<BR>From the back...<BR>Her name wasn't really Alice.  And she couldn't tell Cameron Gallagher the real reason why she and her daughter had come to his isolated ranch.  Nor could she reveal that his probing midnight gaze made her tremble...with desire.<BR>Cameron had no use for beautiful women, or for liars.  Yet his new housekeeper was both-and still he wanted her.  He would be a fool to let Alice stay under his roof one minute longer.  But then, bounty hunters never ran from trouble...they chased it.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>When 'Alice' showed up on his doorstep to apply for the job as his housekeeper Cameron knew he shouldn't hire her.  He could tell by looking at her that she wasn't right for the job and that she was trouble.  However, when Cameron saw Alice's little girl Rebecca his heart melted.  When the innocent little girl asked if they would be living with him instead of sleeping in the car, well, Cameron knew he couldn't turn them away.  He hired Alice, but was afraid of the feelings that she stirred in him.  She turns his house into a home and he is now eating great meals.  He is also fallling in love with her daughter.  Alice believes that Cameron's ranch is the perfect place to hide out from her in-laws.  After Alice's husband died she thought she was forming a bond with her in-laws, until she discovered that what they really wanted was custody of Rebecca.  She fled with her daughter and is hiding out until she figures out what to do.  Alice loves working with Cameron, but she is scared of the feelings that she has for him.  She is also worried about the bond that is developing between Cameron and her daughter.  She knows that she has no future with Cameron and that she will eventually have to leave him, but she never realized how hard that would be.  By the time Alice realizes her feelings for Cameron she knows that she must tell him the truth.  The truth could either bring them closer together or farther apart.  Cameron used to be abounty hunter and he believes in truth and justice.  So, how is he going to feel when Alice tells him that she has been lying to him from the beginning.  This is a good romantic suspense story.  I also enjoyed the fact that Rebecca was a very important character in the story.  It was also nice to see that Alice as a strong female who faced down her problems in the end without the help of a man.  She had the courage to fix her problems on her own.  Again, it was a good book and I am now interested in reading about the other characters in the series.	2002-04-20
US	52437017	R3AJRZOWA9NMFQ	082172505X	471856153	Midnight Slave	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>When jet-haired Jolene Warrington learned she was really a slave mistress's child and not her father's free white daughter, the Mississippi belle was devastated.  Suddenly the desirable heiress was not only an orphan and a pauper...she'd been sold to an arrogant rancher to be his consort!  The voluptuous beauty vowed that somehow she'd escape her owner before he robbed her of her virtue, but before she could break away, the virile Texan was taking liberties with her body-and stealing her heart in the bargain?<BR>Independent Kurt Spencer never wanted to get permanently tangled up with any female.  Then he saw the gorgeous ivory-skinned captive for sale and he couldn't walk by and leave her to a brutal master.  But when the hot-blooded cattleman had his new &quot;possession&quot; within reach, his noble intentions became velvet seduction.  Whispering that he'd grant her freedom after one night, Kurt urgently loved her...only to find he needed more-and he swore he'd forever make her his Midnight Slave.<br />In my Opinion....<BR>This book is really good.   This is a story about slavery, the North versus the South, right and wrong, hatred, jealousy, lust, love, true friendship, and justice.  This book has everything that you could want in a story.  Jolene is a young, beautiful, rich woman with her whole life ahead of her.  Well, she did until her manipulative 'twin' sister, Johanna, decided that to get what she wants she had to get rid of Jolene.  Jolene is thrown into the humiliating degrading life of slavery.  Jolene may think that having Kurt as her 'master' is the worse thing that could have happened to her, but what she doesn't know is that Kurt is her salvation.  Things could be a lot different for Jolene if Kurt had not stepped in to buy Jolene from a brutal master and his family.  Kurt and Jolene become closer as the days go by.  However, in a state where slaves are seen as worthless pieces of property, the relationship between Kurt and Joleneis viewed with hostility and contempt.  Kurt does not understand his feelings for Jolene, but he vows to protect her.  The relationship between Kurt and Jolene is only a small part of this book.  At times it is hard to remember who the primary charcters in this book are because of the exciting stories of the secondary characters.  The reader never has to guess at what the other characters in the book are thinking or feeling.  Every character plays an important role and their stories are just as important as Kurt and Jolene's.  One very important character is Kurt's best friend and former slave Daniel.  Daniel is now a free slave thanks to Kurt and would love nothing more than to buy his mother's freedom from the same brutal man that first had Jolene.  The only problem is that the man has told Daniel that buying his mother is not an option, but Daniel refuses to accept that.  Daniel, his mother, and several other slaves have major roles in this books and all of their lives are joined in some way to both Kurt and Jolene.  The reader is aware of the truth and the circumstances that landed Jolene into slavery.  The tension mounts with every single page.  At times I couldn't wait for the story to be at the end so I would know how things turned out.  This was a very good book that I would highly recommend.	2002-04-19
US	52437017	R32AA6MY8E10Q1	0373764227	275812986	Tall, Dark & Cranky (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Lovely physical therapist Rebecca Calloway might not actually be residing with a fire-breathing dragon, but at times it seemed that way.  For corporate mogul Grant Berringer, who'd once possessed the golden touch in business-and with women-had seemingly lost it in a tragic accident.  And Rebecca's assignment was to bring back his physical powers, on the assumption that his other gifts wouldn't be far behind...<BR>Grant Berringer knew that he needed someone not only to help him get out of bed in the morning, but to make him want to.  Yet was Rebecca really the right one for the job?  Because with her on his case, bed was looking more and more appealing all the time...<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Grant Berringer was a very handsome man who thought he had it all until one car accident changed his life.  Grant was driving the car that killed his fiancee and left him in a coma for two weeks.  Grant not only lost his memory of the accident, but he also lost his will to live.  It was Rebecca Calloway's job to help Grant.  She has her work cut out for in the beginning when Grant fights her every step of the way.  Not to mention the fact that, at first, he was angry to realize that Rebecca had a daughter that he was not told about when he hired her.  Eventually Grant comes to accept Rebecca's help and he even grows to love her daughter.  It seems that the three of them become a very tight loving family until the past comes back to haunt Grant.  The key to Grant's happiness may be in his remembering what happened to cause the car wreck.  Grant Berringer is a good man and Rebecca is just the woman to complete him.  It also doesn't hurt that Grant is more of a father to her daughter than her ex-husband.  This was a nice, short, quick read.	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R2FYJULLJCG86S	0373076770	547720511	Man Of Steel (Into The Heartland) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	This is the third book in the 'Into the Heartland' series.  The first book is 'A Wanted Man' which is the story about Lucy.  The second book 'One Good Man' is the story of Wood.  This book is the story of Wood and Lucy's older brother Rhett.  Rhett is seen as the stuffed shirt in the family.  He is a big shot lawyer who plans to run for State Attorney General.  Rhett thought he had it all, a great career, a beautiful wife, and two terrific kids.  The last thing that Rhett expected was to have his wife leave him and his kids for another man.  Now Rhett is barely managing day to day.  All he wants is for his children to be happy, so when his daughter asks for a horse Rhett calls his sister Lucy for help.  Lucy decides to play matchmaker and sends her friend Dixie to deliver Rhett's daughter's horse.  Dixie thought that she would be delivering a horse and than leaving.  The last thing that she was expecting was to become a nanny to two children.  Dixie is fighting the demons from her past and she thought that she was doing a fine job until now.  Being around Rhett's children, Lolly and Ethan, brought back the past that Dixie thought she buried.  Rhett was grateful for Dixie and all that she has done for his kids.  Rhett was having a hard time remembering that she is his employee and he should keep his hands off.  Rhett and Dixie become closer, but at the same time that very closeness could destroy their future.  This was a good romantic read.  The family aspect is the focus of the book.  Lolly and Ethan were very important secondary characters.  It was also nice to read about the characters from the previous two books.  Lucy's story still remains my favorite out of the three.	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R1Y0VM8ZEYZ3UX	0373059280	251107902	Dream Wedding (Just Married) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	From the Back...<BR>Nerd turned Hunk.  Genie Hill was flabbergasted.  If this guy was really Alex Dalton, where was his pocket protector?  And what was with the motorcycle...and the muscles?  Somehow, a wimpy teenage algebra whiz had become a strapping, sexy CEO?<BR>Prom Queen turned Schoolmarm.  Once Alex would have sold his soul to kiss Genie Hill.  Now his former \\"dream girl\\" was a prim third-grade teacher--and the nerd she rejected was back for revenge.  Step one was to seduce Genie.  But step two sure wasn't to marry her!<br />In my opinion...<BR>This is the second book in the Just Married series.  This is a series about three men who against all odds built a business from the ground up.  Yankee Motorworks has grown into a very succesful business.  Alex Dalton is one of the three CEO's.  Alex was known as a nerd growing up.  Kids can be cruel and they were especially cruel to Alex, but the only person that mattered was Genie.  Alex had a huge crush on Genie growing up, so her words and actions hurt worse than anyone elses.  Now Alex has come back for his great grandmothers birthday.  Alex planned to use his return to get his revenge on Genie.  He planned to get her to fall in love with him and than he would walk away.  Alex was unprepared for the woman that Genie had become.  She was no longer the prom queen, but instead a very prim third-grade teacher.  It was exciting to read a story about a man who went from nerd to hunk.  There are many books out there on women who had self-image problems due to what they looked like when they were younger, but eventually they grew up to be a beautiful women.  But this book was from the view of a man who had the pocket protector and bad skin, but eventually grew up to be a gorgeous hunk.  This alone made for an interesting read.  It was only made better by the love story between Alex and Genie.  Great story.  Highly recommend this book along with the first one in the series-Hometown Wedding.	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R1U9WPUAIUCMZL	0373077351	255447758	Bringing Benjy Home (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Trey Garrison was a security consultant, a man of action, a man who trusted his heart to no one--except his sister and her little boy, Benjy.  Now Benjy has been kidnapped, and Trey was desperate.  Jaida West was a psychic, a woman of faith and intuition, a woman who wore her heart on her sleeve.  She wanted to help.  First, though, she had to break through Trey's walls.  Their dangerous journey would turn distrust to passion.  But would their love survive the evil acts of a criminal bent on revenge?  It had to, beacuse a child's life was depending on it...<br />In my Opinion...<BR>This is the sequel to 'Guarding Raine' (the story of Mac and Raine).  In this book Mac's partner Trey is desperate to find his nephew.  Trey only allows a small number of people into his life.  His inner circle consists of Mac, Raine, his sister Lauren, and his nephew Benjy.  Trey vows to do whatever it takes to get Benjy back.  Lauren begs Trey to ask psychic Jaida West to help him in locating Benjy.  Trey does not believe in Jaida's psychic ability.  He firmly believes that she takes advantage of people during their time of grief and desperation.  Although he believes it is a waste of time, he still agrees to ask her to help, because that is what his sister wants.  Jaida agrees to help locate Benjy.  Locating Benjy becomes an adventure for both Trey and Jaida.  Jaida must deal with Trey and his doubts about her psychic abilities.  As the days go by Trey must face the fact that Jaida's abilities are real and she is the best chance he has at getting Benjy back.  Trey and Jaida become closer and closer as the danger also heats up.  Trey may not realize just how much he has fallen for Jaida until her life is in jeopardy.  There are only a small number of books with a psychic storyline that I actually like.  This one was good mainly because the other aspects of the book are just as dominant as the Jaida's psychic abilities-the romance, the mystery behind the kidnappers, and the love Trey has for his family.  I must admit that I have not read Guarding Raine, but I intend to now that I have read Bringing Home Benjy.	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R1HCEH98O2ELHA	0373076398	197358649	One Good Man (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	This is the second book in the 'Into the Heartland' series.  The first book is 'A Wanted Man' which is the story about Lucy.  But in this book we get the story of Lucy's brother Wood (Earl).  When Wood was a teenager he survived a car wreck that killed his parents.  Wood was unhurt physically, but mentally and emotionally he could never stop blaming himself for their death.  As soon as he could he joined the Marines and never looked back.  He shut himself off from his remaining family.  Now almost twelve years later Wood is an ex-marine who is currently flat on his back.  He had no idea what his future had in store for him, but his present was filled with pain.  Wood was badly injured and extremely bitter.  The only bright spot in his day is his physical therapist Christine Thurmond.  Chris is facing her own demons.  Her psychotic ex-husband is stalking her and her newest patient seems determined to chip away at her ice princess facade.  Wood needs to concentrate on just learning to walk again and Chris needs to concentrate on surviving her ex-husband.  Together they may be able to accomplish what they have been unable to do on their own.  This is an interesting romantic read.  The mystery and danger surrounding Chris and the physical therapy that Wood is going through is the focus of most of this book.  It was nice to see Wood reconnecting with his family.  I enjoyed Lucy's story more, but this was a nice addition to the series.  Rhett's story is next-'Man of Steel.'	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R1D3MV2K08194T	0373059701	467640181	970: Christmas Wedding (Just Married) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Renegade Groom.  Jesse Tyler had to find a date for his sister's wedding--fast!  So he decided to ask Holly Bryant.  With her carefree ways and black leather miniskirt, she was sure to shake up his stuffy family.  Trouble was, Jesse was the one getting all shook up!<BR>Holly the Holiday Bride?  Holly knew that Jesse was the most eligible millionaire around--not that a hunk with attitude was her idea of husband material.  But then, she and Jesse weren't really engaged, and his steamy mistletoe kisses were just part of the charade...weren't they?<br />In my Opinon...<BR>This is the third book in the Just Married series.  This is a series about three men who against all odds built a business from the ground up.  Yankee Motorworks has grown into a very succesful business.  Jesse Tyler is one of the three CEO's.  Jesse's parents are billionaire's who expected him to join the family business, but Jesse's passion was motorcycles.  When Jesse went into business for himself his parents cut him off in every way.  The only person in his family that Jesse remained close to was his sister.  Now his sister is getting married at their family home and wanted her beloved brother to be there.  Jesse knew he would go for his sister's sake, but he wouldn't go alone.  Jesse decided to find the most unsuitable woman to escort him to his parents as his &quot;fiancee&quot; for a week.  Holly works in a tatto parlor that her father owns and she drives a motorcycle.  She would make his parents cringe.  She was perfect.  Only Jesse's feelings for his pretend fiancee were anything but pretend.  The result is a terrific story.  I enjoyed reading about the last bachelor of Yankee Motorworks.  I highly recommend you read the other two books in the series-Hometown Wedding and Dream Wedding.	2002-04-08
US	52437017	R1ETZKXBZTNCEG	0373387148	883294173	The Coltons: Pregnant in Prosperino	Books	4	13	13	N	N	:)	Chance Reilly did not have a happy childhood.  His father was verbally and physically abusive.  Chance is a salesperson and moves from place to place never putting down roots.  Chance knows that a wife and children will never be in his future.  Chance thinks he will have his dream of owning his own business when his father dies and leaves behind the family ranch.  Chance is hurt and angry to discover that his father has put a clause in the will stating that Chance must marry within five days to inherit the ranch.  Chance is ready to walk away from the ranch and his dreams until Lana Ramirez comes to him with a proposition.<br />Lana was Chance's fathers private-duty nurse and knows about the will.  Lana has known Chance since she was a little girl and he spent time on the Colton ranch.  Lana tells Chance that she will marry him so that he can inherit the ranch if he will give her the one thing that she wants, a baby.  Chance is reluctant at first, but finally agrees to what Lana has proposed.  It is supposed to be a simple business arrangement, but most of us know that nothing in life is ever simple.<br />Chance is a very wounded man and Lana is just the woman to help him.  Of course the love story between Chance and Lana takes a back seat to those readers that have followed the series and are interested in the homecoming of Meredith Colton.  If you have read the other books than it is no secret that Meredith was getting her memory back.  Another attack on Emily finally brings both Emily and Meredith home to the Colton ranch.  Their homecoming also leaves us anticipating the next book in the Colton series.	2002-04-05
US	52437017	R5WASCBAKRLUO	0373484380	295223	Gifts of Fortune (3 Novels in 1): The Holiday Heir/ The Christmas House/ Maggie's Miracle	Books	3	7	7	N	N	:|	Gifts of Fortune is a book that revolves around Ryan Fortune and the gifts that he gives to people that are important to him.  Each person is important to Ryan for different reasons.<BR>THE HOLIDAY HEIR introduces us to Nico Tan-efi the King of Imarco.  Nico saved Ryan from financial disaster, and in return Ryan gives Nico a ring that has the Double Crown inlay.  Ryan swears that the ring holds the magical power to make true love survive.  Nico can only hope that the mystical power is true and helps him win back his one true love.  ...  In THE CHRISTMAS HOUSE we are introduced to Jessamine Mitchell and Sebastian Quentin.  Ryan feels the need to thank these two people for pulling him out of a burning car and saving his life.  Ryan knows that they are both orphans and decides to give them a very expensive house to share.  Ryan secretly hopes that the house brings these two strangers together.  I was a bit disappointed with the abrupt ending of this story.  In MAGGIE'S MIRACLE we finally meet the doctor that saved Ryan's life when somone tried to kill him with poison.  Dr. Maggie Taylor never gave up on saving Ryan and in return he gives her two million dollars to help her fund he own research lab.  Maggie's sister has a rare blood disorder and with Ryan's money she can afford to open her own research lab.  Maggie also hires the best research doctor available, Dr. Elliott Sandwell.  Sparks fly when these two get together.  I have to admit that I liked Nico's story the best because there was a family connection between him and the Fortunes.  The other two stories were okay, but other than Ryan being the one to give them their \\"gifts\\" they had no other connection to the Fortune books.  I am eager to get back to the Fortune clan with the next book in the series...	2002-03-26
US	52437017	R1QI4SZ6FPM3XY	0373763840	2393887	Baby of Fortune (Silhouette Desire, No. 1384) (Fortunes of Texas)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	:|	Justin Bond just discovered that his mother is, Miranda Fortune, of the wealthy Texas Fortunes.  Miranda was just a child herself when she became pregnant.  Seperated from her family she felt that she had no other choice but to let her twin babies be put up for adoption.  Miranda left her children at the Sheriff's door.  <br />Unfortunately, Justin and his twin sister were never able to be adopted because Miranda never signed away her rights.  Justin grew up in the foster care system.  He never formed a bond with anyone and never knew the meaning of love and family.  Now as an adult Justin still has trouble connecting with others.  He has been seperated from his wife for over a year, and he learns the truth about his mother and her family.  Seeing the Fortunes and the love that they have for one another makes Justin think about all that is missing in his life.  Justin knows one thing for sure-he wants his wife back.  Getting his wife, Heather, back turns out to be more difficult than he thought it would be.  There is also Heather's little secret that stands between them.<br />I like the Fortunes of Texas series, so I had to read this book.  I can't say that I enjoyed it all that much though.  And my reasons are strictly personal-I HATE stories that revolve around a man not being told that he is a father.  In this book Heather, in my opinion, is selfish in keeping the truth from Justin.  No matter how hurt she was or what her feelings were towards Justin, he had a right to know about his son.  She was not only punishing Justin, but she was punishing their son by denying him his father.  The story was great in that we once again meet another Fortune.  We also get to read about characters from past books.  This book was very well written and I have all of Shirley Rogers books and I enjoy them.  So, if you enjoy this series and author than don't let my personal bias stop you from reading this book.  I look forward to reading the next book-the story of Cameron's illegitimate son Jonas.	2002-03-25
US	52437017	R3IOHEF1CSGLZQ	0373190719	545520242	Julie'S Garden (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Julie Ryan needed a temporary job--one which would allow her to finish her education and take care of her young daughter.  Becoming Garrett McClain's new gardener seemed like the perfect solution.  Except the handsome widower didn't appreciate suprises, and claimed he didn't like children.  Garrett had learned love's lessons the hard way, and wasn't about to open himself up to any more heartache.  Then Julie entered his life, transforming his garden--and his outlook.  But did he dare lose his heart to this beautiful woman and her precocious child, who would surely leave him once spring arrived?<br />In My Opinion...<BR>The back of the book could not have explained this story any better.  Garrett is a widow and he wants the garden restored to what it was originally including the same plants.  Garrett is doing this because of a promise that he made his late wife.  Julie understands, but at the same time she knows that other plants and flowers would be better for the garden and makes some changes.  Garrett is not at all happy with Julie's changes to the garden, but at the same time it is hard to be mad at her when he is attracted to her.  Garrett is also starting to fall in love with Julie's fatherless daughter.  Garrett is not the only one that needs to bury the past.  Julie also has hang-ups from her first marriage that she must learn to deal with.  If they can both let go of the past than they have a chance at a happy future.  This was a very quick family romance.	2002-03-16
US	52437017	RN5INRF3NWVMV	0373058977	641502499	Hometown Wedding (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>For Callie Harrison, being part of her best friend's wedding didn't just mean returning to the small town she had fled.  It meant facing Rorke O'Neil, the wild, worldly hellion this ice princess had fallen for-hard.  But their parting had been so bitter...<BR>Years ago, Rorke had discovered the deliciously wanton temptress beneath Callie's straitlaced facade.  Now she was an open book, and he had the secret.  Could he get through this wedding without letting Callie learn the truth and break his heart?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>This is the first book in the Just Married series by Pamela Macaluso.  Callie let her father tear hear and Rorke apart many years ago, but now they have both come back to their hometown for their friends wedding.  Callie is only planning on a short visit, but to her suprise Rorke is there to stay.  Callie discovers to her dismay that she still loves Rorke, but he is still bitter about the way she left him.  Although Rorke has a right to be angry, if he would let Callie explain why she left him than they might be able to have a second chance.  Rorke has also got a secret that he is keeping from everyone.  I thought Callie overreacted when she found out what that secret was.  Thankfully they  both come to their senses.  I can not wait to read the stories of Rorke's partners Jesse and Alex.	2002-03-16
US	52437017	R2F2IWBA96KQVY	0373242174	829221628	Wife In The Mail   (Silhouette Special Edition, 1217)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Dr. Shayne Kerrington has not had an easy life.  He opens a clinic in Alaska and soon after his wife leaves him taking their two children.  Shayne is not able to see his children for years until his ex-wife is killed and the children are brought back to Alaska to live with their father.  He is a stranger to his own children and they are not all that thrilled to come and live with him.  Shayne also has a younger brother that seems to never take things seriously.  Shayne is constantly cleaning up his brothers life messes.  The latest is a real whopper.  Shayne must go tell his brother's mail-order bride that her fiancee ran off to marry someone else.  Shayne was sure that once Sydney found out what his brother did that she would be on the next flight out of Alaska.  Instead she suprises him by announcing that she plans to stay.  Shayne feels he has no choice but to offer her a room at his house.  <br />Both Shayne and Sydney have been burned in the past and neither of them want to repeat that mistake.  It gets hard for them to deny their attraction to each other.  Sydney, Shayne, and his children make a great family.  I would have liked for Shayne's brother to have made an appearance in this book.  I think that it would have added to the story.  This is a quick easy read.	2002-03-13
US	52437017	R3KUIPA72TPC5R	0373078072	282395618	Roarke's Wife (The Protectors)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Cleo McNamara desperately needed a husband...someone to father her child and protect her from a would-be murderer.  Security expert Simon Roarke bravely took the job.  But Cleo was more than he'd bargained for--every touch between them sizzled, every glance smoldered.  Roarke took his husbandly duties seriously--all of them--and he would give Cleo the child she craved.  But in her arms he found a peace he'd never felt before...and a threat.  For not only was Cleo in danger of losing her life...Roarke was in danger of losing his heart!<br />In my Opinion...<BR>We learned in another book (Defending his Own) that Roarke is a storng man, but sad after his child was killed.  In this book Roarke is hired not only to protect Cleo from the person trying to hurt her, but also to marry her and get her pregnant so that she can inherit the position of CEO of her family's company.  At first I was upset with the idea of a storyline that had a man willing to get a woman pregnant and than walk away from his child.  However, Roarke is not a heartless person, but just the opposite.  He loved his little girl and blames himself for her death.  He is afraid of loving another child and not being able to protect him/her or be a good father.  But the more time that he spends with Cleo the closer they become.  The reader knows that Roarke is a wonderful man wih a lot of love to give if he can put his fears aside.  This is one of my favorite books from The Protector series.  This was a fast paced romatic read with a bit of romance and danger thrown in.	2002-03-12
US	52437017	RNP2E6UUJ9JJG	037338713X	380232374	The Coltons: The Trophy Wife	Books	5	9	9	N	N	:)	Dr. Tripp Calhoun is one of many foster children that stayed at the Colton ranch.  Now back for a rare visit he runs into the very grown up Amber Colton.  Amber learns that Tripp is in the running for a very important job. Tripp's problem is that the people in charge of making the hiring decisions are looking for a family man.  Amber overhears this and offers herself as a temporary fiancee.  Tripp gets more than he bargains for when his feelings for Amber are more than friendly.  Amber is attracted to Tripp, but she is having a hard time breaking through the walls he has put between them.  <br />Tripp and Amber make a very interesting couple.  In some ways they are complete opposites.  She comes from a rich pampered lifestyle and is used to men falling all over her.  Tripp's childhood was the complete opposite and he has had to struggle for most of his life.  Men are always trying to seduce Amber, so it is a complete shock when she has to play the seductress to get Tripp's attention.  Tripp and Amber are also alike in many ways.  They are both educated, stubborn, strong-willed people.  Both have big hearts and care a great deal for those less fortunate than them.  Tripp and Amber give us not only a taste of romance, but comedy as well.  The food fight in the Colton's immaculate dining room was hilarious.  <br />The most fascinating thing in this book was that Rand and Emily finally meet face to face with the `real' Meredith.  I cannot wait for the next book in the hope that Meredith finally gets to come home and reconnect with the rest of her family.  If you have not read the previous books in the series than I encourage you to do so.	2002-03-08
US	52437017	R38RFGXXB52FKZ	0373074530	842793452	This Side of Heaven (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 453)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	:)	THIS SIDE OF HEAVEN<BR>From the Back...<BR>Hot. Demanding. Inescapable. The power of destiny had joined Nate Hodges and Cyn Porter together, but the savagery of man seemed fated to tear them apart. A warrior who walked alone, Nate could never mean anything but danger for any woman who dared to love him. Yet Cyn, touched by tragedy herself, realized this soul-scarred soldier needed her strength. Though stalked by a madman bent on revenge, Nate succumbed to the pull of a passion older than time. Cyn, the brown eyed beauty of his dreams--his impossible love--brought him peace. She was his very soul. But he knew with heart-shattering certainty that he could be her death.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Cyn loved her minister husband and mourned him when he was killed. Cyn hates violence and danger. Nate Hodges is a soldier with a violent past and danger still surrounds him. Nate and Cyn are attracted to each other. Nate, however, knows that it is dangerous to get involved with Cyn. A man from Nate's past plans on finding Nate and killing him. Nate does not want Cyn to be there when that happens. They want each other and staying away seems impossible. Nate can only pray that he can protect Cyn when the time comes. This is a great start to Beverly Barton's The Protector series.	2002-03-05
US	52437017	R2KIJ61ZNRS3MZ	0373076142	644446859	The Outcast (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 614)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>For months clairvoyant Elizabeth Mallory had been tormented by visions of a desperate stranger.  Now that the man was here, on her isolated Georgia mountain.  Wounded and on the run, he needed refuge.  And Elizabeth needed him.  Reece Landry, she sensed, was the answer to her lonely prayers.  Why, Reece wondered, wasn't this woman frightened by him--a hunted fugitive?  Hell, he was afriad--of her, of how she made him feel.  Reece's hard-knocks life had taught him not to trust anyone.  He knew he would be a fool to take a chance on Elizabeth--but a bigger fool if he didn't.<br />In my Opinon...<BR>We were first introduced to Elilzabeth in 'Paladin's woman.'  Elizabeth has special psychic abilities and lately has had visions of a man tormented and desperate.  Elizabeth is not at all suprised when this man shows up at her doorstep.  Elizabeth knows that she should be afraid of the wounded, escaped, hunted fugitive.  However, Elizbeth believes in this strangers innocence and plans to do all that she can to help him.  Reece cannot believe that this woman is unafraid of him and even willing to help him.  He was convicted of murdering his father, but Reece is innocent and plans on finding the person who really killed him.  Reece has a hard time trusting anyone, but Elizabeth really does not give him much choice.  She steam rolls into his life and refuses to leave until she helps him uncover the real murderer.  I usually don't like books with a psychic storyline, but I must admit that it was tastefully done in this story.  I enjoyed reading about Elizabeth and Reece.  I cannot wait to read Sam's story (Elizabeth's brother).  This was another great addition to The Protector series.	2002-03-05
US	52437017	RWFXGLSFDAB2Q	0373075154	102285934	Paladin'S Woman (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Nick Romero, Navy Seal, DEA agent, Latin lover, was a man alone--and satisfied to remain that way.  Until the night he rescued Addy McConnell, a tall, coll woman with hair like fire.  And, rumor had it, a soul like ice.  But anyone who fought off a potential kidnapper as fiercely as she had must have a tigress sleeping under her skin.  And Nick knew he was just the man to awaken Addy and make her purr.  Addy McConnell felt like a stranger in her own body.  For Nick Romero raised in her a near-consuming hunger more frightening than the threats against her.  Now he swore to protect her life with his own.  But could she give him what he desired in return?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Nick was first intoduced to us in 'This Side of Heaven' where he was gunned down by a mad man (that is how he injured his leg).  Nick is a loner and has no intention of settling down until he meets Addy.  Nick saves Addie's life one night when someone attempted to kidnap her.  Nick has now been hired as Addy's bodyguard.  Being with Addy 24/7 shows Nick that there is more to Addy than what she allows others to see.  Nick makes Addie feel feminine and beautiful.  Nick and Addie are highly attracted to each other, but Addie is reluctant to get involved.  She was burned once by her ex and is afraid of getting hurt again.  Besides Nick and Addie fighting their feelings for each other-they still have a potential dangerous kidnapper on their hands.  This is a fast paced enjoyable read and a great addition to The Protectors series.	2002-03-05
US	52437017	R265X4WQGAOCL6	0373272049	197377134	Panther on the Prowl	Books	2	1	3	N	N	:(	From the back...<BR>Rennie Hollander ran from a loveless engagement--straight into the heart of darkness.  Under storm-filled skies, her plane went down and she awoke temporarily blinded--and in the arms of a mysterious stranger...<BR>From the moment John Parker took the wounded beauty into his home to heal, he knew his heart was in danger.  Rennie needed him like no other, fueling his desire to protect--and to love.  The rugged Native American loner knew the stakes were high, for his sorrow stalked him like the powerful panther that once killed his bride.  Now the only thing that kept John from Rennie's loving arms was the desire to avenge the past.  And only time would heal him--or destroy him forever...<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Rennie and John are both running from their pasts.  Rennie has learned that her fiancee was only marrying her for land that he would receive after they were married.  She needs to get away, but a plan crash leaves her blind and in the hands of a stranger.  John lives in the Florida Everglades and has taken Rennie into his home and agrees to let her stay there until her sight returns.  John is haunted by the memories from his past.  His wife was killed by a panther after John killed that panther's mate.  John feels that he cannot let go of his past or his guilt until he tracks down and kills the panther that killed his wife.  John knows that he can never get involved with anyone while the panter is still alive.  Rennie knows that John cares for her as much as she cares for him, but he keeps a wall firmly placed between them.  Rennie also knows that once her sight comes back she must face her own past to be free to have a future.  This was a slow book.  I found John's obsession with the Panther to be a bit extreme.  And later I found Rennie's theory of who she believed John really was laughable (you will have to read the book to understand).  I was drawn to this book by the cover, but I have to admit I was pretty disappointed with the storyitself.	2002-03-05
US	52437017	R1I49XIYCL4D1S	0373076703	205839596	Defending His Own  (The Protectors) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Once Deborah Vaughn had loved Ashe McLaughlin with all of her teenage heart.  Then he'd disappeared, leaving Deborah with nothing...except the son they'd created.  Now Ashe was back, insisting she play the part of his lover.<BR>Ashe had never forgotten Deborah and the night of passion they'd shared, or the way her father had railroaded him out of town.  But as the star witness in a murder trial, Deborah needed Ashe, and he would do anything to keep her safe...and the safest place for her was in his arms.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Ashe is called back to his hometown by Deborah's mother.  Ashe is told that Deborah is in need of a bodyguard.  Deborah witnesses a murder and plans to testify against the man, however, someone is threatning her life and trying to keep her from telling what she knows.  Ashe never thought that he would return home after Deborah's father ran him out of town, but how could he say no when Deborah's life was on the line.  Ashe moves in with Deborah, her mother, and her brother.  Deborah hoped to never see Ashe again after he left her years ago.  She has never told anyone that her brother is actually her son, and Ashe's--not even Ashe.  Now the man is living in her house and around their son and she is scared that he will find out the truth.  But what happens when Deborah discovers the truth, that her own father accused Ashe of rape and ran him out of town.  I had a hard time with this book and it was only because of my strong belief that every man has a right to know that he fathered a child.  Ashe was never told about his son and to me that is simply unforgivable.  Deborah may have been young and scared to go against her father, but later after she had gotten older and her father died she should have found Ashe and told him about their son.  The book was good and another great addition to The Protectors series.  The only problem with the book came from my own beliefs.	2002-03-05
US	52437017	RU84BK56CLMHM	0373825277	934120254	Rhinestone Cowboy (Crystal Creek #15)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>He'd kissed her in the twilight and Liz's young heart had been lost forever.  Now, thirty years later, Guy Heller was back in town, and the widowed Liz Babcock, respected music teacher, pillar of the community, seemed powerless to resist the magnetism of a hard-living, thrice-divorced country crooner.  Her beau, Martin Avery, was shattered.  Liz's mother wasn't speaking to her.  Her daughters were horrified.  Throughout Claro County, scandal swirled around Liz Babcock and her Rhinestone Cowboy.<br />My Opinion...<BR>Liz and Guy's love survive thirty years of being separated from each other.  They have both lived, loved, and lost.  However, now Guy is back and he wants Liz.  It is not hard for the reader to feel the ... attraction that practically leaps off the page.  It is sad that Martin Avery loses Liz, but he gains so much from an unexpected woman.  As for the rest of the town and Liz's family in particular, they acted like selfish, self-centered children.  For heaven sakes they were all worried about themselves instead of Liz.  Poor Guy has had a terrible childhood and things did not get better as he has gotten older.  Guy seems to have no one to turn to except Liz.  I was excited by the pairing of these two characters because they seem so right for each other.  The only problem I had with this book was the decision by the authors of this series to do what they did to Jeff, Beverly's fiancee.  Their story was in an earlier book.  I feel cheated somehow because I invested myself into their relationship by reading their story, only to have it end the way it did in this book.  You will just have to read this yourself to know what I mean.  Putting the situation with Jeff aside I must admit that I enjoyed this book and it was a great addition to the series.	2002-02-26
US	52437017	R1R7ZSQXQD4NUX	0373825323	739757814	Gentle On My Mind (Crystal Creek #20)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Hutch was totally inappropriate for Betsy--But the two of them were so made for each other, it hardly mattered.  They seemed to share not only passion, but genuine affection.  They never ran out of things to say, and Hutch understood Betsy on an instinctual level, despite all the strikes against them--her cousin Ruth McKinney's disapproval, her mother's purported nervous breakdown, her father's stony silence, the terrible burden of her money and the reluctance of both of them to entertain any thought of marriage.  They might not have a future, but their present seemed practically incandescent.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Just like the back of the book said-Hutch and Betsy were made for each other.  They were as different as night and day, but they loved each other and that is all that should matter.  Unfortunately, life is not always that easy.  Betsy comes from a rich family and a troubled past.  Hutch helps Betsy to deal with her past, but even he has a hard time dealing with her money.  Her family, of course, think that Hutch is totally unsuitable.  They manipulate and threaten Betsy, and although they cause her to have doubts, she never loses sight of the fact that she loves Hutch.  Hutch loves Betsy, but feels that letting her go is the best thing he could do for her.  It may take losing her for him to realize just how much she means to him.  In this book, we also get good news about Cal and Serena.  Unfortunately, tragedy strikes Ruth and Tyler and promises to bring rough times in their future.  Hutch and Betsy may be new characters to the Crystal Creek series, but they are a good addition.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	R3GC7QERE4IT2Y	0373825366	204353862	Lone Star State Of Mind (Crystal Creek #24)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Some folks ssaid it would never be the same--There was a new doctor in town, and he just wasn't their sort.  Though Dr. Purdy said Sonny Dekker was the best, the man was a troublemaker.  He was messing with the football team, risking boys' futures.  And lots of townspeople wanted nothing to do with him.  But not Beverly Townsend.  Suprisingly, the exotic Dr. Dekker appealed to her in ways she'd never dreamed of.  They were just friends, but their friendship set the grapevine buzzing.  Then, on an eerily calm spring day, the heavens opened up and all hell broke loose.  Gossip stopped.  Hearts stopped.  It was the end for many, and the beginning for some.  Crystal Creek never would be the same again.<br />In my Opinion..<BR>In 'Hearts Against the Wind' we read the love sory of Jeff Harris and Beverly Townsend.  Sadly, in a later Crystal Creek book (Shameless) Jeff is killed at an oil sight.  I had a difficult time accepting that Jeff was dead.  As a reader I invested time in reading about their relationship and blossoming love.  And than to have him dead in a couple lines of a later book just did not seem right.  So, when I started to read this book I knew that I was going to have a hard time with Sonny Dekker as the new man in Beverly's life.  But the more I read the harder it was not to like him.  He is a good man and a terrific doctor and most importantly he loves Beverly.  Unfortunately, the town of Crystal Creek is full of prejudice people, including Beverly's own mother Carolyn.  No one wanted to give Sonny a chance, except for Beverly and a handful of others.  But something terrible was going on with the towns football players, and when Sonny goes digging for the truth, he becomes even more unpopular with the citizens of Crystal Creek.  As if the town did not have enough to deal with-nature strikes in the form of a tornado.  Sonny is the only man that can help the people of Crystal Creek, whether they like it or not.  This was an exciting conclusion to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	R3LRI3PIBN2203	0373825307	882677219	Let's Turn Back the Years (Crystal Creek, No. 18)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>She purely terrified him--Hank Travis, a poor peanut farmer's son from South Texas, was no match for Miss Mary Margaret MacGregor.  Hank had a dream.  His future lay in the exploding Texas oil fields.  But Mary had a plan.  Her future lay with Hank!  It was J.T.'s job to immortalize his grandfather's history for Crystal Creek, and for all of Texas, and it would have been a different tale indeed without the formidable Mary!<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Hank has been a part of the Crystal Creek series since the very first book.  It was great to read about his early years with Mary.  Hank was not all that great a husband and father, considering he was always off chasing oil.  He did, however, love Mary very much, and she loved him.  Mary was a strong independent woman, and she had to be, to put up with Hank.  Hank was a force to be reckoned with in the oil business.  It was easy to see why he was so successful.  It was sad that cranky old grandpa Hank died, but this was a fitting end to his character.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	R2GLQ1VOI866MJ	0373825358	607208966	The Heart Won't Lie	Books	4	3	3	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>When Ruth loved him, nothing else mattered--The Double C was awash in preparations for a Valentine's Day wedding, but Tyler took no joy in the proceedings.  He and his wife might as well be on different planets.  The wedding diverted her from her pain, but what about his guilt? What about his needs?  His wife was meat and drink to Tyler McKinney, the air he breathed and the essence of his life.  With Ruth beside him, he could tackle anything, but when she was seperated from him--either physically or emotionally, he just couldn't hack it.  Neither could go on this way.  Something had to give.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>We were first introduced to Tyler and Ruth in 'Cowboys and Cabernet.'  They have been important characters throughout the Crystal Creek series.  In the last several books we have had to read about the tragic loss of their unborn son.  Ruth and Tyler have still not completely recovered from their baby's death.  In this book we discover just how far apart they have drifted and what it takes to bring them back together again.  In a previous book (Southern Nights) we were introduced to Lisa Croft and Tony.  They are back in this book to get married.  The entire McKinney household is planning their wedding.  And Lisa must face her past if she is to peacefully start her future with Tony.  This is an emotional Crystal Creek book with the return of many characters from previous books.  There is also several new characters that find love in this story.  It was a nice addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	RF249QZN44AVJ	037382534X	666993593	Somewhere Other Than the Night (Crystal Creek, No. 22)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>An unparalleled Christmas!  Lynn Mckinney Russell had a lot on her plate.  Two new stepdaughters-one at the rebellious adolescent stage-a new baby on the way, a trainer who'd been mistreating her beloved horse, Lightning, and one new husband, whose overprotectiveness was driving her wild!  Still Lynn was determined to make the best Christmas ever-till a series of harrowing \\"accidents\\" threatened to turn the festive season upside down.  Lynn's lifelong cocoon of security disppeared with the cool Texas wind, and Christmas became an experience no Russell or McKinney was ever likely to forget!<br />In my Opinion...<BR>We were first introduced to Lynn and Sam in 'White Lightning.'  After a tough start Sam and Lynn seemed to have found love and were headed towards happily ever after.  Unfortunatly, in this book real life hits.  Not everything is roses in the Russell household.  Allie Russell, Sam's daughter, is going through a rebellious teenage stage.  Allie also seems to blame all her problems on Lynn.  There is also the added stress of a new baby on the way.  Sam is also having financial problems that he is keeping from Lynn.  And if all that was not bad enough, there all these little accidents that seem to be happing to the Russell family and Lynn in particular.  The ending has you holding your breath.  It was nice to have another book on Lynn, Sam, and their growing family.  It was especially sweet to have 'Little Hank' join the the McKinney-Russell clan.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	RVUJ6FOC3DN1P	0373825315	417188498	Never Givin' Up On Love (Crystal Creek)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>There were some things a woman just didn't do!  Amanda envisioned so many special items to buy, little touches to add, to make the Double Bar ranch house uniquely hers and Brock's.  But how could she continue to make costly decorating investments when she and Brock still weren't married, and there was no sign that they were ever going to be?  His dreadful aunt Millie did have a point.  The man was almost forty years old.  If he was as in love with her as he said, why wouldn't he marry her?<br />In my Opinion...<BR>Brock, Amanda, and Alvin first came to us in a 'New Way to Fly.'  In the earlier story we saw the love between Brock and Amanda grow.  In this book we know that they still love each other, but are still not married.  Amanda and Brock are still fixing up Brock's family home.  And when his aunt Millie shows up she is not at all pleased to see all the changes in the house.  His aunt is even more upset that some city-girl girlfriend of Brock's, is making all the changes to the house, like she owns it.  Amanda does not understand why Millie takes an instant dislike to her, but Amanda must admit that Millie is right about one thing.  Amanda is not the lady of the house and Brock has not made any move to change that.  Brock has his own reasons for not marrying Amanda.  We can only hope that he realizes how foolish he is being before it is too late.  We are also introduced to a new couple in this book who find themselves in danger with only Alvin, the dog, to save them.  This is a nice addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	R2W2VMNMQULLDU	0373825293	348289854	Shameless (Crystal Creek #17)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	From the Back...<BR>A suprising homecoming--It had been years since Rio Langley'd called Crystal Creek home.  He'd always felt like an outsider there, anyway.  And the flooding reflections of what he'd had--and what he'd missed--would always haunt him.  But he wouldn't be around long.  He'd come back simply to fix up his mama's old place, sell it and head back up to Wyoming.  Then a baby landed on his doorstep and turned his head.  And he was a goner.<br />In my Opinion...<BR>I truly enjoyed this story.  Rio is a deeply caring man with a lot of love to get.  He has had some hard knocks in life, but he did not let that stop him.  Rio falls in love with baby Emily and is determined to find her parents before she is put into foster care.  Maggie, is a social worker and she knows that she should take Emily and put her in foster care, but she can't.  Maggie cares for Rio more than she should.  She does not want to hurt him, so she decides to help him as much as she can.  Rio, Maggie, and Emily become a little family.  The need to find the truth, however, before their family is blown apart.  This was a great addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-25
US	52437017	R31VC37GTNOHS0	0373825285	559501126	Southern Nights (Crystal Creek #16)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	:(	From the back...<BR>It was love at first sight when Lisa Croft arrived in Crystal Creek.  Cynthia, Virginia, and Lettie Mae figured they'd been blessed with the best mother's helper in the state of Texas.  And Tony Rodriguez, the new veterinary assistant, was instantly smitten!  J.T. alone knew the terrors of Lisa's past-a past that threatened the happiness and security of those he held dear.  He foresaw Lisa's fate, and he aimed to meet it head-on.<br />My Opinion..<BR>I am not exactly sure why the back of the book makes it seem like the story is about Lisa and Tony because it's really not.  This is yet another story of Cynthia and J.T.. In every book that has Cynthia as the main character, she has some sort of life altering problem with J.T.  In this book Cynthia feels that she is `losing herself' and that J.T. does not treat her like a full partner in their marriage.  Lisa is a focus at the beginning of the book because she is in trouble and J.T. rides to her rescue.  Later Lisa comes to the McKinney ranch to help with Cynthia and J.T.'s daughter.  Lisa runs into Tony three or four times and they exchange only a handful of words each time.  I thought that there was a lot of potential for a good story there, but the author decided to concentrate on J.T and Cynthia.  Besides dealing with the McKinney marriage problems in this book you also get pimps, prostitutes, UFO's, and a heavy dose of women's lib.  I was disappointed with Cynthia's whining and J.T feeling like dirt, not to mention Lisa and Tony's story getting tossed into the background.  I'm sorry but I don't think that this was such a great addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-19
US	52437017	R36OT5TK69G4VM	0373825285	559501126	Southern Nights (Crystal Creek #16)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	:(	From the back...<BR>It was love at first sight when Lisa Croft arrived in Crystal Creek.  Cynthia, Virginia, and Lettie Mae figured they'd been blessed with the best mother's helper in the state of Texas.  And Tony Rodriguez, the new veterinary assistant, was instantly smitten!  J.T. alone knew the terrors of Lisa's past-a past that threatened the happiness and security of those he held dear.  He foresaw Lisa's fate, and he aimed to meet it head-on.<br />My Opinion..<BR>I am not exactly sure why the back of the book makes it seem like the story is about Lisa and Tony because it's really not.  This is yet another story of Cynthia and J.T.. In every book that has Cynthia as the main character, she has some sort of life altering problem with J.T.  In this book Cynthia feels that she is `losing herself' and that J.T. does not treat her like a full partner in their marriage.  Lisa is a focus at the beginning of the book because she is in trouble and J.T. rides to her rescue.  Later Lisa comes to the McKinney ranch to help with Cynthia and J.T.'s daughter.  Lisa runs into Tony three or four times and they exchange only a handful of words each time.  I thought that there was a lot of potential for a good story there, but the author decided to concentrate on J.T and Cynthia.  Besides dealing with the McKinney marriage problems in this book you also get pimps, prostitutes, UFO's, and a heavy dose of women's lib.  I was disappointed with Cynthia's whining and J.T feeling like dirt, not to mention Lisa and Tony's story getting tossed into the background.  I'm sorry but I don't think that this was such a great addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-19
US	52437017	R1CMKJ2TLP8TKM	0373825269	698398527	Passionate Kisses (Crystal Creek #14)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>In the beginning, Cynthia McKinney was attracted to J.T. because he'd loved his first wife so deeply.  The man obviously took love and marriage seriously.  Now, with a new baby to care for and the responsibilities of running J.T.'s household, Cynthia's feeling overwhelmed.  She's in no mood for comparisons with the Perfect Pauline.  <br />But then, Cynthia learns a thing or two about her uncompromising husband and his fairy-tale first love.  The truth is startling, but liberating.  For starters, J.T.'s second marriage was no shotgun affair...<br />My Opinion...<BR>I was surprised at the turn this story took.  It ended up being a story based on the love and marriage between J.T. and his first wife Pauline.  Cynthia is distraught over all the comparisons that others seem to make between her and Pauline.  Carolyn, who is Pauline's sister sits with Cynthia and tells her the story of J.T. and Pauline.  The story gives much insight to the man that J.T. has become.  I still think that, as usual, Cynthia blew things way out of proportion at the beginning of the story.  I enjoyed reading about Pauline-the woman we have heard so much about.  At first I did not think that I was going to like her, but soon her determination and spirit made me see what a wonderful woman she grew to be.	2002-02-18
US	52437017	R10YPXJ9X3H987	0373825218	795449720	Guitars, Cadillacs (Crystal Creek, No. 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Jessica Reynolds's music is riding at the top of the charts and everyone is happy about her success.  Except Sheriff Wayne Jackson.  He's concerned about overzealous fans coming on to Jessie.  Is he simply doing his job or does he know something he's not telling?<br />My opinion...<BR>Wayne used to play for the NFL and later he worked as a cop in Las Vegas.  Wayne knows what it is like to travel on the road and have lots of eager fans.  Wayne wants nothing to do with that lifestyle ever again.  Jessica represents everything in a woman that Wayne tries to avoid.  However, it becomes impossible for him to ignore his feelings for Amanda.  Yet Wayne is dealing with another problem that could affect the whole town.  Zack who is the owner of the local honky-tonk bar is hanging around big time gamblers.  Wayne's ex-wife had a gambling addiction, so Wayne hates gambling more than most.  When Jessica has trouble with Zack, it is Wayne who rides to the rescue.  Jessica and Wayne get close, but his hang-ups about her profession could be the end of their relationship.  I really like this book and the characters of Wayne and Jessica.  This was a great addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	R37HQJWX2YEFP1	0373825226	885404364	Stand by Your Man (Crystal Creek)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Something sinister is going on at the Gibson's Flying Horse Ranch, and veterinarian Manny Hernandez is determined to get to the bottom of it.  But his single-mindedness might cost him the love of Tracey Cotter, the numbers whiz behind the success of the new Cal McKinney boots.  The stakes are unbearably high: his career, his reputation&#8211;and Tracey.<br />My opinion...<BR>Tracey was introduced to us earlier in Amarillo by morning, the story of Cal and Serena.  Of course, as the local veterinarian Manny has been mentioned often in previous books.  Tracey and Manny seem like two completely different people.  Besides their cultural and religious differences they also have to deal with Manny's very demanding job.  Manny's focus is on the Flying Horse Ranch where Bubba's animals are dying.  If you thought Bubba's actions in previous books were awful, believe me he gets worse in this book.  I liked this book and I would have liked it more if  the author focused a little more on Manny and Tracey.  Several characters from previous books made an appearance in this story.  Good addition to Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	RHCZZTZZ0UFJH	0373825234	199737267	New Way To Fly (Crystal Creek)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	:)	Amanda Walker made a brief appearance in an earlier Crystal Creek book.  Now Amanda is back and she has opened her own business in Austin.  She is a personal shopper and tries to help others to look their best.  Rancher Brock Munroe hates Amanda's job, but that still does not stop him from trying to see her.  To Brock, Amanda is the woman that he has dreamed of all these years.  Brock does his best to get close to Amanda, but many things stand in his way.  <br />Amanda, to me, seemed selfish, self-centered, a bit uppity, and full of herself.  Brock is one of the nicest most hardworking people that she may ever meet, but to her he is just a rancher.  The worst was when she put Brock in the same room with her ex-boyfriend just to compare the two.  She wanted to prove to herself that her New York boyfriend was a much better catch than Brock.  The terrible thing was that Brock realized before he left what Amanda was doing.  Brock was so hurt that I do not know how he could ever forgive Amanda for what she did.  Bubba's wife Mary plays a big role in this book.  I think that my favorite character was Alvin the dog.  This was an interesting addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	R2PP9O22IS5AE	037382520X	156369371	The Thunder Rolls	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	From the back...<BR>Ken Slattery, foreman at the Double C, knows what he wants.  He wants Nora Jones.  But Nora already has a man in her life-her eight-year-old son, Rory.  Besides, her ex-husband has threatened to kill any man who stakes a claim on her...and he's on his way home to Crystal Creek for the holiday weekend.<br />My opinion...<BR>As foreman of the McKinney ranch, Ken has been mentioned several times in previous books. Nora, of course, is always waiting on half the town of Crystal Creek, at her mother-in-law Dottie's Coffee shop. Nora is afraid to get involved with any man after her disastrous marriage. Her ex-husband beat her both physically and emotionally. Nora is scared by the feelings that she has for Ken. Nora is also scared her ex-husband would hurt her or Ken if he ever found out they were involved. This was a wonderful story with a heart stopping ending. This was one of the better books in the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	R35628JY3RHBZD	0373825242	855288032	Everybody's Talkin' (Crystal Creek #12)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Carolyn Trent discovers money missing out of her savings account.  Bank Manager, Cody Hendricks is determined to find the person responsible for the missing money.   Carolyn's cousin Lori Porter handles all of the accounts for the Circle T Ranch.  Cody starts dating Lori and discovers all sorts of things about some tellers that work for him.  From that information he is sure that he knows who the embezzler is.  Of course Lori is royally ticked off when she thinks that Cody dated her only to get information from her.  <br />Cody's feelings for Lori stay pretty much the same throughout the story.  Lori's feelings for Cody, however, are like a roller coaster ride.  Lori constantly doubts Cody and that makes me question her feelings for him.  Although Lori and Cody are the primary characters there were also many others, like the lazy drifter Luke Harte and the bank teller Mary Alice, who play big roles in this book.  There are also many characters from previous books that reappear.  Including a very pregnant Cynthia, who brings a new baby to the McKinney clan toward the end of the book.  This is a good addition to the Crystal Creek series.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	RB48YY7ORC24Q	0373825196	552283780	Hearts Against The Wind (Crystal Creek #7)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	From the back...<BR>Old Hank Travis could see a lot of himself in Jeff Harris.  The boy had oil in his blood and lived only for the next big strike.  Hank would lay odds that nothing would keep Harris in Crystal Creek for long.  Of course, if a certain marriage-minded Miss Beverly Townsend set her cap at him, all bets were off.<br />My opinion...<BR>Beverly has been mentioned in most of the previous books in this series.  She has been portrayed as self-absorbed and using her beauty as a shield.  Beverly was Miss Texas and almost Miss America.  At first Jeff thinks that she is nothing but a pretty face, until he gets to know her and sees that she is a wonderful person with a big heart.  However, Jeff has a tough time trying to convince her to have a relationship with an oil driller.  I like Jeff and Beverly together.  I hope that they are mentioned more in later books in the series.  As usual in this series, characters from previous books make an appearance in this story.  The next book (The Thunder Rolls) is about Ken Slattery, the foreman at the McKinney ranch, and Nora Jones from the Longhorn coffee shop.	2002-02-17
US	52437017	R2R419PWKXDEGW	0373825188	904109876	After The Lights Go Out (Crystal Creek #6)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	The Hole in the Wall Dude Ranch is making its grand opening in this book.  Scott Harris knows that he has to win over the people in the town of Crystal Creek.  Scott is confidant that they will love the ranch as much as he does.  Scott quit his job as a high-powered attorney and put everything into the ranch.  The best thing he ever did was hire Valerie Drayton as his ranch manager.  The one thing that Scott had not expected was to feel jealous when other men started showing an interest in Val.  Now Scott must come clean about his feelings for Val or take the chance of losing her forever.<br />The story of Scott and Val was good and the book stood on it's own more than any other.  The reader really did not know Scott or Valerie until this book.  This is unusual considering most characters show up regularly in the series before they get a story of their own.  Beverly Townsend is a major secondary character in this book along with Scott's brother Jeff.  This sets up the next book in the Crystal Creek series (Hearts Against the Wind) where Jeff and Beverly are the main characters.	2002-02-15
US	52437017	R29UQAUS5588S4	037382517X	26223279	Even the Nights Are Better (Crystal Creek, No. 5)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	Vernon Trent has loved Carolyn Townsend all his life.  As a young boy he was to shy to approach Carolyn and as a young man he was drafted to Vietnam.  By the time Vernon came home to Crystal Creek he found Carolyn married with a daughter.  Vernon knew he could never love anyone like Carolyn so he never married.  Now twenty years later, Carolyn is a widow and her daughter is grown.  Vernon decides to make his feelings toward Carolyn known.  Carolyn has always thought of Vernon as a dear friend.  Now that he wants more she is frightened of the feelings that she has for him.<br />I have always liked Carolyn from her brief appearances in other Crystal Creek books.  However, I found her behavior in this book shocking.  Vernon is about twenty pounds over weight and Carolyn feels that he is too much at risk for a heart attack to take the chance of having a relationship with him.  She mentally berates him throughout the story for being overweight and than she verbally berates him toward the end of the book.  First of all, J.T. is a physically fit man and he has a heart attack.  Carolyn's first husband was also fit and he had a heart attack.  Second, readers would be appalled if we were talking about a woman who happened to be twenty pounds overweight being berated by a man.  Personally I felt that if Carolyn really loved Vern she would have accepted him as he was.  Instead, Vern takes Carolyn's words deep into his heart and sets out to please her and do whatever it takes to get her to love him-AAgghh.  Many characters from previous books are in this story and there is a good introduction of characters that will be in future stories.  The weight issue personally irritated me if you can look past this than you will probably enjoy this book.	2002-02-14
US	52437017	R1JHMGFMCIOLDR	0373825153	37202168	Amarillo By Morning #3 (Crystal Creek)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Cal McKinney is a carefree live for the moment rodeo man.  Cal loves the rodeo and had no thoughts of settling down until he met boot designer Serena Davis. Serena wants Cal to be the spokesman for her boot company, but Cal has different ideas.  Cal agrees to be the spokesman, but only if he can become a partner in the company.  For Serena her boot company is everything and she has no intention of letting Cal have a piece of it.  Cal has no intention of going away and he plans to get Serena to change her mind.  Meanwhile, Cal wants to see Serena on a more personal level.  They are both attracted to each other, but Serena has a secret that keeps her from getting close to anybody.  Cal not only has to break down the wall Serena has around her business, but also the one around her heart.<br />This is a good addition to the Crystal Creek series.  I must admit that I did become a bit aggravated with Serena.  Cal proves that he will stand by her and love her, but she still insists on pushing him away.  If Cal wasn't so determined and hardheaded he might have lost Serena.  This book also has brief appearances by characters from previous books.  Lynn's story (White Lightning) is up next and I look forward to reading it.	2002-02-11
US	52437017	RHBFAO35PMRZX	0373825145	751045681	Cowboys And Cabernet (Crystal Creek, No 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	:)	Tyler McKinney is the oldest son of J.T. McKinney from the previous book in the series (Deep in the Heart).  Tyler is determined to have a vineyard on the ranch.  His father is skeptical, but with the help of Tyler's stepmother they convince his father to try it.  J.T.'s old buddy Don Holden has a very successful vineyard in California.  Don is happy to send his daughter Ruth to the McKinney ranch to give her expert advice to Tyler.  Tyler expects some dowdy looking woman to show up.  He has all these stereotypical notions of what an expert wine chemist should look like.  Tyler is shocked when he sees just how beautiful Ruth is.  Tyler listens to what Ruth has to say, but he is stubborn and impatient and has no intention of taking all of the advice that she gives him about the vineyard.  Ruth and J.T. build not only a business relationship but a personal one as well.  Things go along smoothly until a lie almost rips them apart.<br />I thought that this book was more focused than the previous one.  There were still plenty of secondary characters, but the main focus was on Tyler and Ruth.  I have to admit that I was a bit aggravated with Ruth and her decision to believe the worst about Tyler.  I thought Tyler had every right to expect Ruth to come crawling back on her knees and apologize, but instead the author has Tyler taking most of the blame-Ugh.  Like I said this book was better than the previous one so hopefully the next one will be even better (Cal's story).	2002-02-08
US	52437017	R2OC9VFMGIGOBR	0373825137	425786552	Deep in the Heart (Crystal Creek, No. 1)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	Texas Ranch Owner J. T. McKinney is fifty five years old, but he has the looks and stamina of a thirty-year-old.  J.T. had loved his wife until the day that she died and he never thought that he would love like that again.  He discovered just how wrong he was when he met Cynthia Page a thirty-five-year-old Boston bank vice president.  For months J.T. flew from Texas to Boston every weekend to visit with Cynthia.  Finally, J.T. asks Cynthia to come to Texas for an extended visit so that she can visit with his family.  J.T. has three grown children and his oldest is only a year younger than Cynthia.  The visit is a nightmare for everyone except J.T. who is oblivious to the tension between Cynthia and his children and staff.    <br />I have to admit that I was pretty disappointed with this book.  This is the first in the Crystal Creek series and I have already bought all twenty-four books.  I hope that the other books are better than this one.  For more than half the book I had a hard time trying to see J.T. and Cynthia in a long term relationship.  They are two completely opposite people and J.T. is in his fifties and set in his way.  I think that if the author had focused more attention on J.T. and Cynthia than the reader may have seen what draws the two of them together besides sex.  It was not until close to the end of the book when the author made J.T. looks like a jerk for not believing Cynthia that I actually started to like her a little bit.  I guess I just did not feel any chemistry between Cynthia and J.T..  Also all of the secondary characters seemed to play major roles in this story, which was a distraction.  I just hope that the rest of the books in the series pay more attention to the main characters.  I guess I have to make an exception for this book considering it is the first in the series and the author was obviously trying to introduce the characters that would be in future books.	2002-02-08
US	52437017	R1QRGDWXU8MV30	0373387121	213643921	The Coltons: Wed to the Witness	Books	4	7	8	N	N	:)	Someone is framing Jackson Colton for the attempted murder of his uncle Joe.  In the very first book of this series (Beloved Wolf) someone tries to kill Joe at his sixtieth birthday party.  Several months later in another book (Passion's Law) someone again tries to kill Joe.  The reader does not know who really tried to kill Joe Colton, but we do know from previous books that `Meredith' is the one trying to frame Jackson.  The evidence keeps piling up, but one of the most incriminating pieces of evidence is the testimony of Cheyenne James.  <br />Cheyenne was at Joe's birthday bash and can place Jackson near the place where the shooter would have been standing.  Cheyenne knows that her testimony makes Jackson look guilty.  She does not want to testify against him because she knows that he is innocent.  Cheyenne has a `gift' of sight or visions.  She knows Jackson is innocent and she is willing to marry him to keep the police from making her give a statement.<br />Jackson and Cheyenne become close, but neither of them admits their true feelings for each other.  Jackson is afraid he has nothing to offer Cheyenne since his future may include prison bars.  Cheyenne is afraid that Jackson cannot accept her because of her `gift'.  The story is exciting in that it brings a conclusion to who is trying to kill Joe.  Now the family can concentrate on trying to find out the truth about `Meredith'.  The last paragraph in this story is the most interesting and sets up the next book in the series, which is sure to be exciting.	2002-02-08
US	52437017	RN5093C81Z6UM	0373077017	444879800	Quiet One  (The Guiness Gang) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	This is the third book in the Guiness Gang series.   Cagney Guiness was a homicide detective until he was forced to shoot and kill a fourteen-year-old kid.  Now he has returned to his hometown of Maddensfield for peace and quiet.  He is the town sheriff, but nothing ever happens in Maddensfield.  At least that was true until someone is murdered and his prime suspect is a beautiful woman who intrigues him far too much.  <br />Marina's childhood was filled with fear and nightmares.  Now she has moved from New York to hopefully find peace in the quiet town of Maddensfield.  Unfortunately, not only have the nightmares followed her, but she is a suspect in a murder investigation.  <br />Cagney finds himself attracted to Marina and wanting to protect her.  If Marina is not the murderer than she could be in danger, and the best way to protect her is to stay with her 24-7.  If Marina is guilty than the best way to find out is to watch her.  Cagney knows that as the sheriff he should keep his distance from Marina, but it becomes more difficult as the time goes by.<br />Cagney and Marina both have things in their past that they must overcome if they are to have a future together.  They also have to get through the current crisis.  This book gives us a wonderful romance story with Cagney and Marina.  Even more than that it gives us a very intriguing mystery.  I enjoyed reading about the quiet brother in the Guiness family and cannot wait for the next book in the series.	2002-02-02
US	52437017	R3UI343OOWZLIU	0373077130	807396369	The One Worth Waiting For (The Guiness Gang) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 713)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the fourth book in The Guiness Gang series.  Fifteen years ago Garret Guiness promised that someday he would return to Maddensfield and Suzanne Montgomery.  The only thing that got Suzanne through the bad times was that someday Garret would return.  The last thing that she expected was that when he returned it would be half dead.  Garret is a Navy Seal and has barely seen his family and hardly returns home.  His very dangerous job is his life until he is shot in the back.  By the time he shows up at Suzanne's he is feverish, bruised, shot, dehydrated, has an onset of malnutrition, and a severe concussion.  As if all that wasn't bad enough he also suffers from temporary partial amnesia.  He knows that someone is after him and that he and his family are in danger.  Garret has no idea, however, who is after him or why.  <br />Suzanne has loved Garret for as long as she can remember.  She insists on helping him while he is hurt and sick.  She also allows him to stay in her home until his memory returns and he knows what the danger is that he is facing.  However, Suzanne does try to remain some emotional and physical distance.  She has spent the past fifteen years praying for Garret to come home and knows that if she let him he will only hurt her when he leaves again.  Garret and Suzanne try hard to keep their distance, but it becomes more difficult with each day.  <br />Out of the series this is probably my favorite.  This is not your typical amnesia story.  Garret only misses parts of his memory over the past two years, but almost immediately starts to recover bits and pieces of it.  I liked that the big tough Garret shows up vulnerable and wounded for Suzanne to care for.  Not only was the romance a very hot element in this story, but so was the danger.  Someone shot Garret and you know it is only a matter of time before that someone shows up again.  This was a great addition to the series and I cannot wait for Jake's story, the next book.	2002-02-02
US	52437017	R1DFTNNS6HQHDA	0373076681	542643312	Hiding Jessica (The Guiness Gang)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	:)	This is the second book in the Guiness gang series.  Mitch Guiness is a private consultant for the FBI.  His job as a consultant for the witness protection program is to make people disappear.  Mitch is very good at his job and that is why he was asked to help international model and key witness Jessica Gavornee.  Jessica testified against a mafia crime boss and now it is Mitch's job to help her change her identity.  Jessica has her own secrets that she is unwilling to share and could just get Mitch killed.  She is also a very stubborn and difficult woman.  Many call her the Ice Angel because she seems so cold and unfeeling.  Jessica is determined not to trust anyone, including Mitch.  Mitch, on the other hand, knows that he must get Jessica to trust him if he is going to keep both of them alive.<br />Mitch is one of the good guys.  At times it was truly frustrating when Jessica refused to trust him.  Here he is risking his life to save hers and she still keeps her secrets.  The closer they seemed to get to each other the more I wanted to smack Jessica.  If she had just told him the truth, it may have saved them a lot of trouble in the end.  Despite the trust issues there were plenty of sparks between the two.  All the danger that surrounded them just added to the excitement.  It was also a pleasure to have characters from the previous book pop up as well.  This has been a wonderful series and I cannot wait to read the next book.	2002-02-02
US	52437017	R1ZOPGSW4RYTEN	0373483724	681247941	At the Midnight Hour (The Guiness Gang) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 658)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	:)	This is the first book in the Guiness Gang series.  Elizabeth Guiness grew up in a small town with a wonderful family.  She loves her parents and her brothers more than anything in the world.  Liz even managed to marry her childhood sweetheart and than watch while he was gunned down in front of her.  Now Liz wants to make a fresh start as a nanny and she believes the best way to do that is far away from her hometown.  Her new charge is a precious six-year-old boy genius.  Andrew has been through three nanny's already and is known for quoting morbid statistics twenty-four hours a day.  Liz knows that her job will not be easy, but she is determined to try.  Making her work even more difficult is Andrew's brilliant gorgeous father.<br />Richard Keaton may be the tenth smartest person in the world, but when it comes to his personal emotions he is completely shut down.  Richard has been betrayed by almost everyone in his life.  The last was his wife who cheated on him with almost every man within reach.  She was a cruel and hateful woman who destroyed any faith he had in other human beings.  When she was murdered, the entire town turned against him and his in-laws took his son from him.  Now five years later he was getting Andrew back.  Nevertheless, Richard feels that it is in everyone's best interest if he keeps his distance from Andrew.  However, keeping his distance seems impossible since Liz is determined to bring them together.  <br />Richard and Liz generate sparks just by being in a room together.  The love story between Richard and Liz is only one element of this book.  Andrew himself generates enough excitement to keep the reader turning pages.  This cute serious six-year-old wears suits and reads the Almanac for pleasure.  Last but not least is the element of danger that is present through most of the book.  This is a truly great book that I would highly recommend.	2002-02-01
US	52437017	R2FLDMHRLJ1DHL	0373387113	223938589	Taking On Twins (The Coltons)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	:)	Wyatt Russell has loved Annie Summers his entire life.  They were sweethearts in college, but they broke up when Annie went home to be with her family while her father was sick.  Wyatt never stopped loving Annie, not even when she married another man.  Now Annie is a widow with twin boys and living in Keyhole, Wyoming.  Wyatt has learned that his foster sister Emily is hiding out in Keyhole.  Wyatt plans to visit Emily and while he is there he plans to see Annie as well.<br />Annie Summers has dedicated her life to her boys and her families antique business.  The last thing that she wants or expects is for the love of her life to walk through her door.  Annie loves Wyatt though he once hurt her.  Nothing would make Annie happier than sharing her life with Wyatt, but she knows that is impossible.  Wyatt is a hot shot attorney in Washington, D.C. and her life is in Keyhole.  <br />It becomes impossible for Annie to deny her feelings for Wyatt.  He has not only made a place for himself in her heart, but in her boys as well.  Their only chance for a future is to be honest with their feelings and trust in each other.  This book is also filled with the rest of the Colton clan.  Everyone gathers for Nick and Liza's wedding.  The danger that surrounds Emily gets a little too close for comfort.  And `Meredith' gets even more desperate to protect her secrets in this book.  Anne and Wyatt's story stand on its own, but to really get a feel for the secondary characters you should read the previous books in the series.	2002-01-29
US	52437017	RHE5371C1XZX1	0373387040	110176343	The Coltons: Beloved Wolf	Books	4	6	7	N	N	:)	Sophie Colton was an innocent victim of a drug addict.  Sophie storms out of a restaurant after arguing with her fiancee.  On the way home a man attacks her, tries to rape her, bruises and bites her body, slams her head into a wall, and cuts her face badly.  Sophie's dad and foster brother rush to the hospital to be by her side.<br />River James has always isolated himself from others.  He is deeply afraid of being rejected and hurt.  His foster sister Sophie, however, worms her way into his heart.  As a young girl she pesters him as a sister would, but as a young woman she loves him as a woman would love a man.  River loves Sophie, but felt she needed to go to college and experience life.  He never thought that she would get engaged to someone else.  The accident changes everything.  Sophie breaks it off with her fiancee and comes back home.  She has a tough recovery ahead of her and River plans on sticking by her side.<br />A lot was going on in this book. There was a general introduction of the entire Colton clan. The reader is also introduced to the 'good' and 'bad' Meredith (Sophie's mother). This is a story that they carry out through all of the Colton books. Explaining it without giving something away is hard so you will just have to read the book to figure this one out. Although there are many small stories in this book the main one is that of River and Sophie. I must admit that I felt sorry for all that Sophie has been through, but I still felt irritated with her character. She was constantly running from her feelings for River. River is a very patient man to put up with all the ... that she dishes out. <br />It is a good story in that it has me interested in reading the rest of the books in the series to find out what is going to happen next. Although a bit disappointing, River and Sophie are still interesting characters. It will be interesting to see if they pop up in future books.	2002-01-29
US	52437017	R2Q6GGRYSO8TMD	037307543X	70202042	Born to Be Bad (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 543)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Col Donovan's entire life changed the night that his brother was killed.  Col was convicted of his brothers murder, his wife not only divorced him, but aborted their unborn baby.  Col knew that Police Chief J.D. Moss was the one who killed his brother.  Now Col has escaped from prison and his one goal was to kill Moss.  The one thing that Col did not count on was running into pretty young widow Holly Triano.  <br />Holly and her children knew that Col was innocent and they decided to do whatever was necessary to help him.  Holly was not only doing this for Col, but for herself as well.  Holly's husband was a newspaper reporter and was working on Col's story when he was killed in a hit and run accident.  Holly, however, does not believe that her husband's death was an accident.  She believes that the person that killed Col's brother also killed her husband.<br />While trying to find the truth Holly and Col fall in love with each other, but they know that their future is very uncertain.  I loved not only the love story between Col and Holly, but the relationship between Col and Holly's two kids.  There was also a very real element of danger throughout the book.  There was also a dose of comedy.  I found it extremely funny that Holly, a widow with two children, was so embarrassed about buying condoms.  Naomi Horton is an excellent author.  I really enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it.	2002-01-29
US	52437017	RB04BRL94PHJ9	0373076940	464716128	Forever, Dad (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	:)	Secret agent Torch Palamaro retired from the agency after his wife and twin boys were killed.  Scorpion, the man responsible for their deaths is a known terrorist.   Scorpion was angry with Torch for interfering with his plan to blow up the Empire State Building.  Torch has wallowed in his guilt, hurt, and anger, but now he has a chance at revenge.  Torch's old boss has asked him to take on a mission to retrieve a secret formula that could be devastating if it got into the wrong hands, namely Scorpion.  Torch takes the mission and heads out to find Alexander Holt the scientist responsible for the formula.<br />Alexandra Holts entire life was turned upside down in only a few short hours.  A man (she later discovers is Torch) barges through her front door while more men are breaking into her house from her upstairs window.  Alexandra is confused and totally clueless about the formula that Torch seems to thinks she has.  Alexandra had never made her father happy or proud, but she still loved him and believed him to be a great man.  Alex is sure that Torch is mistaken, but she knows the only way to convince him is to show him her father's papers.  First, however, they have to survive the many people that are after them.<br />Alex is good for Torch.  She makes him feel alive again and he can open up to her about his family in a way that he has been unable to do with anyone else.  Once Alex learns the truth about her father she will have her own demons to face.  I really enjoyed this book.  Torch is this tough and very sexy man with so much hurt and guilt inside him that it makes you want to cry.  This man has been through so much and it is exciting to see him open himself up to Alex.  Alex is a woman who has never known love, not even from her father.  She does, however, know how to give love and she gives hers freely to Torch.  <br />This book is a page turner.  I did not want to put it down, it has romance, betrayal, danger, and that is just for starters.  If you are perceptive than figuring out the ending of this book will not be hard.  Yet even if you do, the surprises in the end still pack a punch.  I would highly recommend that you read this book.	2002-01-24
US	52437017	R25J8XL3KKWPFR	0373387091	241343106	Passion'S Law (The Coltons)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	:)	Thaddeus Law is a cynical police detective hell-bent on finding the man who tried to kill Joe Colton.  When Joe asks Thad to help him make his home safe for him and his family, Thad agrees.  What Thad did not count on was meeting Joe's `niece' Heather McGrath.  Heather is staying at the Colton's so that she can help Joe get caught up on his company's business.  Thad had no intention of getting involved with a rich, spoiled, pampered heiress.  Thad's ex-wife proved that the only woman in his life would be his precious two year old daughter.<br />Heather did not plan to get involved with Thad, but she somehow found herself not only involved with him but also with his daughter.  As time went by, both Thad and Brittany found a place in her heart.  Now all Heather has to do is convince Thad to give them a chance.<br />Thad and Heather were the main characters in this story.  Although, there was the mention of the other characters that have flowed through the rest of the books in the Colton series.  Meredith gets extremely antsy with Thad around the house all the time.  Silas gets closer to finding out where Emily is hiding.  Finally, Louise gets closer to remembering the truth about the accident.  Although the story of Thad and Heather could stand alone, I recommend that you read the previous books in the serious first.  Otherwise the secondary characters would not seem as important as they would if you had read the other books.	2002-01-19
US	52437017	R3ROASDAD85M7W	0373243081	944955343	Falling For An Older Man (Callahans & Kin) (Special Edition, 1308)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	Sheila Callahan has five brothers that are all foremen at her father's construction company.  Sheila would love to do the work that her brothers do, but her father feels that a construction site is no place for a woman.  Finally, Sheila has had enough and gives her dad a choice to let her work on a site or she would go to another construction company.  Sheila is thrilled to get her way, but her jaw drops when she discovers that she would be working under Jack Kinsella.  Jack is her brother's best friend and Sheila has loved him for as long as she can remember.  Jack, however, treats Sheila like a kid sister.   <br />Jack may treat Sheila like a kid sister, but his feelings for her are not brotherly.  Jack knows that Sheila is a forever diamond ring kind of woman.  Jack, on the other hand, never intends on getting married and knows that avoiding his best friend's sister is best. <br />I enjoyed seeing a strong woman go after what she wants.  Sheila wants Jack and she goes after him.  Sheila backs Jack into a corner and eventually he must face his feelings for her.  Very dominant men surround Sheila, but she is no wimp and stands up for herself and her beliefs.  Although, I must admit that I did not agree with her decision to keep her secret at the end of the book.  No matter what happened with Jack he deserved to know.  Fortunately she does tell him at the very end of the book.  I am sure we will learn more about this couple in future stories about her brothers.	2002-01-10
US	52437017	R2Z3RTD2E97FXO	0373706529	351667120	Dangerous to Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Vicki Winslow did the right thing, by telling the police, when she discovered that her boss was embezzling money.  She testified against her boss and he was found guilty.  Vicki refuses, however, to enter the Witness Protection Program.  Vicki claims that her family and her small hometown are all the protection that she needs.  Caine Alexander works in security and never takes bodyguard jobs, but he agrees to look out for Vicki as a favor to his brother-in-law (the detective in charge of the case).  <br />Caine has no idea what is in store for him when he arrives in Little Falls, Arkansas.  He has to deal with a protective small town, a poetry quoting cousin, a feisty great-aunt, a cabin in the woods, two large dogs, and a skunk (yes a skunk).  Caine is not an easy man to know.  He keeps walls up so that people cannot get too close.   Vicki refuses to let Caine shut her out.  Caine hates that she has gotten under his skin, but he can do nothing to stop the attraction that is between them.  The more time that they spend together the closer they seem to get.  <br />I enjoyed this story more than I thought I would.  The romance between Caine and Vicki is great.  The mystery and danger makes for a fast paced read.  There was even an element of comedy with the addition of sweetpea.  The skunk was great, who would ever have thought to add a skunk pet.  This is a good book that I would highly recommend.	2002-01-09
US	52437017	R3353SUX04ZB1W	1558175466	395428433	Rapture Untamed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Caroline Hanley was just thirteen years old when Indians murdered her parents.  On that same awful day one Apache kidnaps her.  Spotted Horse hit her on the back of the head, so she had no memory of her life.  That day they also took her brothers and traded them for guns.  When Caroline awoke, they told her that Spotted Horse found her wandering in the desert and he brought her back to his people, so that one day he could marry her.<br />Bill Hanley loved his grandchildren and was still not ready to give up hope five years after they disappeared.  Bill hired the one man who may be able to help get them back.  Ross Bennett was part Apache, and a hired gunman, who agreed to search for Bill's grandchildren.  Finding Caroline was not a problem, but trying to keep his attraction for her hidden was.  Ross has been burned badly in the past and has no intention of getting involved with any woman, especially Caroline.  Caroline is highly attracted to Ross and has no problem showing it.  The sexual tension between the two practically jumps off the page.  <br />Ross may have rescued Caroline, but that does not mean that they are out of danger.  There are people from Ross and Caroline's past, present, and future who are looking for them.  Caroline also starts to regain her memory which stirs things up.  The secondary characters in this story are amazing.  There are so many of them and their stories are woven with that of Ross and Caroline's.  I loved the romance between Ross and Caroline, but even more than that I enjoyed the journey of trying to get them safely home.  Even home had its dangers with which they must deal with.  This book may be long, but it is so well written that the time goes by quickly.  I really did enjoy this book and would highly recommend it.  I have every intention of going out to find more books by this talented author.	2002-01-02
US	52437017	R3V5MJBW62BVPH	0373709811	542031827	Accidentally Yours: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 981)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	:)	FBI Agent Max Calder is working undercover to take down a Russian Mafia ring.  The Russian Mafia is setting up car accidents and getting tons of money from insurance companies.  Max has worked long and hard to get himself deep into the group as a Russian immigrant, Anatoly Kuzmina.  The day that Max was supposed to have one of his `staged accidents' someone else hit his car unexpectedly.  Max is afraid that maybe one of his rivals in the Mafia sent her to get rid of him permanently or that she was sent from someone higher up in the Mafia to test Max's loyalty.  Either way Max knows he must find out everything that he can about the woman, Gaby Peris.<br />Gaby was horrified to have caused the accident, but she is thankful that everyone seems okay.  As an immigration lawyer Gaby has read up on the Russian Mafia ring and has a nagging suspicion that Anatoly might be involved.  She is suspicious and highly attracted to him.<br />Max and Gaby are the perfect couple, but their suspicions of each other could tear them apart.  Through the whole book the reader is hoping that they discover the truth about one another before it is too late.  This is a fun fast-paced romance that I would highly recommend.  If you buy this one than you have to pick up My Private Detective that is Gideon's story.  It is just as good, if not better, than Max's story.	2001-12-31
US	52437017	R1ADQJUE7N1P8D	037376362X	438485033	Heiress & The Bodyguard	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Julie Roper comes from a family with mega money and she is not bad on the eyes either.  Her older brother raised Julie after her parents died.  Unknown to Julie, her brother hired a bodyguard to watch her every move.  <br />Billy Lucas thought he had a cushy job as Julie's bodyguard.  Until the day he came face to face with her.  Billy knew from watching her at a distance that she was a beauty, but he had no idea just how gorgeous she was.  Before Billy knew what was happening he was running off with her, so that he could help her to fulfil her wishes of behaving like an ordinary woman for a week.  There is an attraction between the two that creates a sexual tension that jumps off the page.  Billy knows that he must tell her that her brother hired him to be her bodyguard, but he does not want to jeopardize their blossoming relationship.  If he were smart, however, he would tell her before someone else does. <br />More than the romance in this book there was a ton of humor.  Julie is not dumb but she is clueless when it comes to the world outside her rich mansion.  She has never been in a motel, never pumped gas, and has never worn clothes that were not tailored.  The humor between Julie and Billy is simply hilarious.  If you are looking for a good laugh with a mix of romance than this is the book you want to read.	2001-12-31
US	52437017	R1A0KRLFKAVFF0	0373079397	781835306	What The Baby Knew (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	The last thing that Ex-Navy Seal Quinn Keelor expected to find on his doorstep was a bouncing baby girl.  Quinn had been in many hot sticky situations as a Navy Seal, in fact, his last mission almost cost him his life.  Instead Quinn came home with both emotional and physical scars and a ton of guilt because he was still alive and all his men were dead.  At first Quinn could not get rid of the baby fast enough that is until he discovered a ring in the baby's diaper bag.  The ring was the same one that all members of Quinn's seal team wore.  Quinn knew that because of the ring he had no choice but to look after the baby until the mother could come for her.<br />In the mean time, Quinn needed some help and got it from an unlikely source.  Rachel Healey had a major crush on Quinn in high school.  Quinn was the highschool jock and all-around gorgeous guy.  Rachel was shy and overweight.  However, Rachel had grown-up and changed a lot, but she never lost her love of kids or Quinn.  Rachel agreed to help Quinn with the baby girl.  Quinn and Rachel never expected many things, such as, a deep connection with the baby, romance, and danger.  <br />This was an interesting romance story with an edge of danger.  I enjoyed the mystery of `who is the baby's mother' throughout the story and the revelations at the end were great.  When Quinn finally came across the truth about the baby it was a total shock.  Most stories are predictable, but this one was not.    This is just another great story by Ingrid Weaver.	2001-12-27
US	52437017	R93Y5LHNFYWUO	0373240562	941377671	The Wolf And The Woman's Touch (Silhouette Special Edition #1056)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Jenna Lawrence was desperate to find her niece who had been kidnaped.  Against her families pleas Jenna went to the one man that she knew could help her, Damien Reese.  Damien lived alone in an isolated cabin and has had no human contact for more than five years.  Damien is a psychic, or telepathic, and he used his gift in the past to help others until it became too much and he withdrew from others completely.  All Damien has to do is touch someone to feel their emotions, but he pays an emotional and physical toll afterwards.  The price he pays became too much, not to mention the way everyone treated him like a freak or a monster.  Jenna, on the other hand, would not go away and she was willing to pay any price for Damien to help her find her niece.  Damien wanted one night in Jenna's arms in exchange for his priceless gift.  Jenna could not refuse what Damien asked of her.  Jenna finds herself connecting with Damien as the days go by.  She also sees the price that he has to pay for his gift.  <br />I did not think that I would like this book because of the psychic storyline, but I found myself intrigued with the gift that Damien had.  Damien's gift brings out the vulnerable and emotional side of him that is usually hidden behind his tough guy image.  The man has a wolf for a pet for heaven sakes (although he does not consider smokey a pet).  The reader can really connect with Jenna and the sense of guilt that she has for what she is putting Damien through.  You also can understand why she would do it again if that is what it took for her to get her niece back.  The reader can also understand why he asks for one night of passion in return for his services.  In some stories his actions would be considered crude, but not in this story.  Damien feels he has to deny himself the one thing that most of us take for granted, human touch.  To my surprise, I really enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it.	2001-12-24
US	52437017	R1LUWBYEU7T19	0373761619	395972862	The Older Man (Silhouette Desire No. 1161)(Identical Twins! series)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	:|	Jackie Du Marcel is a divorced, rich, and an adventurous twenty-four year old.  Jackie leaves her house in Malibu to stay at her twin sister's cottage in Charlottesville while her sister is away.  Jackie finds herself intrigued by a handsome older man.    <br />Ben Davis is in his late thirties and a widow who loved his wife and has remained faithful to her even after her death.  Ben has never been attracted to anyone other then his late wife until he meets Jackie.  Ben knows that to get involved with Jackie would be a mistake.  She has money and is used to the jet setting adventurous lifestyle that he wants no part of.  Ben also believes that she is way too young for an old guy like him.<br />The attraction between Ben and Jackie cannot be denied, but that does not mean that their relationship will be easy.  Jackie refuses to give up and Ben cannot help but give in.  This story is a lot better than Cinderella Twin the story of Jackie's twin sister Julianne.  This book is about the differences between two people and a love that they cannot ignore.	2001-12-24
US	52437017	R35LB02XDITLAU	0373059272	244007522	The Cop And The Chorus Girl (Opposites Attract) (Silhouette Desire, No 927)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	:(	Patrick Flynn felt he had no other choice but to rescue the runaway bride.  Abandoning his undercover operation, officer Flynn helped the woman onto the back of his motorcycle and took off.  Unknown to Patrick that he was rescuing the one and only Dixie Davis the Broadway bombshell that was supposed to be marrying a notorious mobster.   Later when he learns the truth, Dixie hires him to be her bodyguard.  Flynn figures this is the perfect opportunity for the police department to gain information on her mobster ex-boyfriend.  Dixie is one lively character and that leads to an entertaining read.  I must admit that I was disappointed by the end of the book.  What we learn about Dixie at the end does not fit the character portrayed throughout the story.  This was the first book that I have read by Nancy Martin and I must admit that I was pretty disappointed.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R1UL1JS1TCSAAT	0373097395	167972114	For Pete's Sake (Silhouette Special Edition No. 739)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	For Pete's Sake is the first book in Myrna Temte's Cowboy Country series.  Dr. Peter Sinclair needed rest and relaxation, so he hit the road and landed at the Circle D Ranch.  &quot;Grandma D&quot; was an old friend of Peter's late grandfather and when she asked Pete to stay at the ranch for the summer he happily accepted.  Peter ends up getting more than he expected.  Someone is trying to scare the Dawson's off the Circle D Ranch.  Accidents start happening and people are getting hurt.  On top of all that, Peter finds himself falling for one Dawson in particular, Becky.<br />Becky Dawson has always taken it upon herself to look after her family.  Becky loves her family and often overlooks the fact that they sometimes take advantage of her big heart and her generosity.  Becky works too hard and hardly ever finds time for herself.  That is until Peter Sinclair comes along and shows Becky what it is like to have someone look after her for a change.  Peter's thoughtfulness and tender kisses awaken Becky in a way that scares her and intrigues her.<br />The love story surrounding Becky and Pete is heartwarming and makes the book interesting on its own.  The mystery surrounding the trouble at the ranch is only an added bonus.  I look forward to reading the stories of Becky's brothers Sam and Hank.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R382T9ZGR7LC3	0373097514	423109746	Heartbreak Hank (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	:)	Heartbreak Hank is the third story in Myrna Temte's Cowboy Country series.  Hank Dawson has always been a lady's man.  Right now, however, there was one little lady that Hank had no control over and that was his seven and a half year old daughter Tina.  The little girl has declared war on her dad and it seems that the only person that can help him is Tina's school principal Emily Franklin.<br />Emily will never forget the crush that she had on Hank in high school.  She will also never forget the way he humiliated her by giving her the nickname of the worm.  Em has no intention of getting involved with Hank, but for Tina's sake she agrees to help him with his parenting skills.  Hank finds himself attracted to Emily, but knows that he has his work cut out for him if he wants to convince her to give him a chance.  <br />Hank and Em do not make it easy on each other and eventually they realize that they must both work together if they are to have a future together.  Little Tina is adorable and visiting with past characters in this series was enjoyable.  If you have read this series than look for Sheriff Andy Johnson and Sam's friend Ginny's story next.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R1WVLIWEJJ78MP	0373761546	423475883	Cinderella Twin  (Identical Twins) (Desire)	Books	1	3	8	N	N	:(	Julianne Bennet needed to get away from her tame life in Virginia, so she headed toward Malibu.  Julianne planned to stay with her twin sister, who was adventurous, and everything that Julianne was not.  Only her sister Jackie had to go to Mexico to film a part in a movie.  Julianne was going to relax and spend time at the beach until her sister got back.  She never expected to fall in love with her sister's hunk of a neighbor.  The only problem was that Cade thought she was Jackie.<br />Cade Marshall had never thought of Jackie as more than a friend and neighbor.  She reminded him too much of his ex-wife.  He could not explain his sudden attraction in her.  All Cade knew was that he wanted her and he would do his best to get her.  Cade has a high moral code and hates people who lie and cheat.  Thanks to his ex-wife Cade is very careful when it comes to women.  <br />I had a hard time enjoying this story.  Almost the entire plot was based on a lie.  Yes, Cade got to know the real Julianne and fell in love with her, but the foundation of their relationship was based on a lie.  He thinks she is her sister.  For someone who has been hurt as badly as Cade has it seems almost impossible that he would forgive Julianne.  Julianne thought it was a game and got excited every time she could convince someone that she was Jackie.  The longer that she waited to tell Cade the truth the more I disliked her.  Based on that I did not enjoy the book.  However, I have already bought the sequel to this book-Jackie's story.  I just hope that it is better.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R2W2GOGBZ8A6CP	037309745X	730199934	Silent Sam's Salvation (Silhouette Special Edition No. 745)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Silent Sam's Salvation is the second book in Myrna Temte's Cowboy Country series.  Sam Dawson returned from the war a different man.  Later, after his parents died, he took over the responsibility of running his family ranch and looking after his brother, sister, and grandma.  Now in his forties Sam's brother Hank decides to help his brother find a wife by placing a personal ad, of course, he does this without telling Sam.<br />Dani Smith wants a better life for her children than what she is able to provide them in Chicago.  Dani decides to do something completely out of character by responding to the personal ads.  Dani begins corresponding with Sam (unaware that she is actually writing Hank).  Before she knows it `Sam' asks Dani and her kids to come to the ranch for six months as a trial visit.<br />Sam is stunned when Dani and her children show up at his ranch.  Sam is ticked at his brother Hank, but feels he most honor the invitation to let Dani stay for six months.  The only difference is that Sam lets her stay as his housekeeper not his potential wife.<br />Dani's time at the ranch turns into an interesting, fun, and romantic read.  Dani and Sam are great primary characters, but tons of secondary characters add their own interest to the story.  The first two books in the series were good and I look forward to Hank's story.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R1FBUQTZI2UKLZ	0373194994	913683995	The Boss's Baby Mistake (Silhouette Romance #1499)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	:|	Jack Marin had no intention of ever marrying, but he wanted a son.  So, Jack went to a fertility clinic and had his sperm frozen until he could find a surrogate mom.<br />Gayle Smith and her husband had tried for years to have a baby, but finally ended up at a fertility clinic.  Later, when her husband dies Gayle is comforted with the thought that she is pregnant with her late husband's child.  That is until they discover that the clinic made a mistake and Gayle was now carrying Jack's baby.<br />Jack desperately wants his unborn son.  Gayle cherishes her unborn child and has no intention of handing her baby over to Jack.  Their only choice is to marry for the sake of their child.  After the initial discovery of the clinic's mistake I found the story a bit boring, but still interesting.  Things could have been a lot worse for Jack and Gayle if they did not have any chemistry between the two of them, but luckily they did.	2001-12-23
US	52437017	R2W0I8C5Q87ZEY	0821756427	383408806	Jade	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Jade Carrington was not left with much choice when one of the King's men attacked her.  She knew the only way to defend herself was to kill her attacker.  Now Jade must face her punishment.  She was to be auctioned as a slave.<br />Matthew Hunter knew that he would pay whatever it took to win Jade.  Unfortunately, Matt was not the only one that wanted Jade.  The Frenchman that Matt outbid had every intention of having Jade whether he won the auction or not.  Matt and Jade rode deep into the wilderness where they not only had to stay hidden from the Frenchman, but also from the Indians who were planning an attack of the white people.<br />Matt and Jade face many dangers as the struggle to survive in the wilderness and at the hands of the enemies.  Their strength, honor, and love get them through the worst.  The story of Matt and Jade is about survival and so much more.  The danger keeps you on edge from page to page.  This is  a book I do not hesitate to recommend.	2001-12-13
US	52437017	R2E60H4MZQF9B1	0373097603	926652510	Warming Trend (Silhouette)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Erik Snow is a handsome hardened man.  His past as a secret agent has made him that way.  The only person that he truly cares about is his daughter.  That is until the day he meets Marybeth MacNamara.  Neither of them can forget the day that they met.  Both of them were at the local bank when it was robbed.  Erik saved the day and all the hostages but took a bullet for his trouble.  Lucky for him Marybeth is a nurse.  <br />Erik and Marybeth both have had their share of pain in the past.  Marybeth's husband was a cop killed in the line of duty.  Erik's past as a secret agent still haunts him.  Both of them need to learn to trust the other if they are to have any type of future together.<br />This was a good story.  I just wish that Erik did not end up taking the blame for most of the problems in their relationship.  It seemed to me that Marybeth was equally to blame and was a bit hard on Erik.  In all, the book was still good and I would recommend it.	2001-12-06
US	52437017	RC5A0L5ZZBJVJ	0373099436	984737397	Sultan's Wives (That Special Woman)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Pippa Bennington knew she had the story that could make her career.  So. Pippa heads out on the next flight to Sharribai.  There she hoped to capture the beauty of the country and get an interview with the Sultan.  Sultan Mikolar is an absolute monarch and his word is law.  He also has one of the last remaining harems.  The last thing that Pippa expected was to be snatched off the street of Sharribai and placed in the harem herself.<br />Pippa wanted her interview, but she was only willing to go so far to get it.  That is until she came face to face with the gorgeous Sultan.  Mikolar chooses to believe that Pippa is indeed is in his country looking for a story and decides to give it to her.  Mikolar and Pippa spend all their free time together unaware of the danger that they are in.  <br />I enjoy stories of Sultans and Sheiks and although this book was not what I expected it was still worth reading.	2001-12-04
US	52437017	R2CYH8MF5XM0NG	037370920X	115090070	And Baby Makes Six: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 920)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Mitch Oliver is an ex hockey star and a widow raising his four sons. He is consumed with his boys and surrounded by male things. Mitch is thrown for a loop when he gets custody of his very dainty feminine niece. The girl is like a china doll and Mitch is baffled on how to care for her. Mitch is determined to do his best for his sister's child.<br />Jenny Litton wanted custody of her best friends daughter, but knew that she had no choice but to turn the little girl over to her uncle.  Jenny Litton has problems of her own since she lost her job.  Her fiancee has also left her after finding out that she is pregnant.  Jenny makes her way to Mitch's front door in hopes that she can help his niece adjust to her new life in a house full of men.<br />Mitch, Jenny, five children, and one more on the way adds up to an interesting story. All of the characters have adjustments to make if they are to become a family. Linda Markowiak includes all the ups and downs of a blended family.	2001-12-04
US	52437017	R1ZX9H39KOX6P8	0373076800	140951166	Five Kids, One Christmas (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 680)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	:|	Nat Crockett lost his wife, kids, and eyesight within a short period of time.  His eyesight was due to an accident, but his wife left him for his best friend.  She also took his kids and the court sided with her that his disability left him unable to properly care for his children.  Now almost five and a half years later he was getting his kids, Zach and Cara back.  His ex-wife Amanda and her husband John were killed in auto wreck.<br />Colonel Helen Brannigan lost her husband, who married Nat's ex wife.  She also lost custody of her daughter when her ex-husband claimed that due to her job she could not properly take care of their daughter.  Now her ex is gone and she wants her daughter, Libby back.<br />They catch Nat and Helen off guard when they tell them that they have both been given joint custody of Zach, Cara, and Nat.  That is not the only surprise in store for them.  They have also given them joint custody of their ex-spouses other two children, Max and Jane.  As if that were not enough to shock them they also find out that Nat's ex-wife's parents are trying to sue for custody of all the children.  They may have caught Nat and Helen off guard, but they try to make the best of it.   Both love their kids and will do anything to keep them, even marry.  <br />This was a good story, although I felt it had too many subplots.  As if joining this dysfunctional family together was not enough other problems crop up.  Nat's blindness, Helen's job, Zach's emotional problems, the custody issue, the extended family's, Nat and Helen's attraction to each other, and many other problems that develop.  I just felt that it was too much for one book.  I have read this authors more recent books that I feel are much better.	2001-12-04
US	52437017	ROYJ25KS4PN2	0373098294	66619873	More Than He Bargained For (That Special Woman!) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Clark Strong was an angry hardened man.  The only thing that can break through that tough exterior is his daughter Elizabeth.  He is angry with the courts, and his ex in-laws, for siding with his wife in the custody battle.  Clark knows that his daughter would have been better off with him than his mentally ill ex-wife.  The last thing that he needs in his life is a sweet, beautiful, nosy neighbor who tries to cheer him up.  <br />Avery Payton felt that she owed her new neighbor for everything that he has done for her.  Although, when she first met him, she could not say that she liked him very much.  Yet when Avery needed help Clark was there for her.  Clark unwillingly spends time with this city girl who has no business trying to run a farm alone.  Clark and Avery find themselves getting closer and closer, but both of them must face the fact that their children may tear them apart.  Both Clark and Avery are dealing with custody issues involving their ex spouses.  Above all else Clark and Avery put their children first.  <br />At times I felt like Avery expected Clark to read her mind and know what she wants or feels.  She also gets upset because she feels that he does not try with her children.  Yet what is Clark supposed to do force himself on them when they obviously resent his place in their mother's life.  This is a story about the difficulties of bringing two people together and about what their children mean to the relationship.  Their children are very important factors in this story.	2001-11-15
US	52437017	R3K9HSCOZ09ILM	0373099711	497478767	Here To Stay (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Miles Kent lost more than just his vintage Corvette when he hit a patch of black ice.  He loses his memory.  The only people around him are doctors and nurses who view him as a patient, a body.  The only person that views him as a man, is Sasha Reiss.  Sasha not only got Miles help when she found his wrecked car, but she visited him every day at the hospital.  <br />Miles is bitter, angry, and scared (although he would never admit to scared) because he cannot remember his past.  Sasha understands what Miles is feeling because she has often seen it in her own patients, horses.  That's right, Sasha is a veterinarian and her specialty is horses.  Sasha opens not only her heart, but her home to this man.  <br />Miles takes Sasha up on her offer to stay at her home, but knows he shouldn't.  Miles slowly starts to heal both inside and out.  Miles starts to get bits and pieces of his memory back, but what he does remember does not paint a pretty picture of the type of man that he is.  <br />As Miles and Sasha come closer together, he worries that his past, once remembered, will tear them apart.  I was afraid that this would be just another amnesiac story and was thrilled that it wasn't.  I really enjoyed the story of Miles and Sasha and I think you will too.	2001-11-14
US	52437017	R31P1OOW48PHS2	0373078951	772692518	Christmas Lone Star Style  (The Lone Star Social Club) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Mitch Ryan is a rich business executive who spends most of his time working.  One thing that is close to Mitch's heart is The Lone Star Social Club.  It is an old house that means a lot to Mitch's family so he bought it and turned it into apartments of which his Aunt is in charge.  Unfortunately, his Aunt is needed elsewhere so Mitch needs to go to San Antonio to watch over the place.  The last thing Mitch expects to find are a woman and two small children trying to move into an apartment to which they have no claim.<br />Phoebe Smith has just gotten custody of her niece and nephew and now they have kicked her out of her apartment.  Phoebe wants the best for her brother's kids because they are all she has left since her brother and his wife died.  Phoebe loves the Social Club and jumped at the ad to rent an apartment there.  Phoebe had no idea the ad and the man behind it were a scam.  To make matters worse, Phoebe just lost her job due to cutbacks.  The last that Phoebe expected was to have Mitch come to the rescue.  He offers her a temporary job and he lets her and the kids share his Aunt's apartment with him.  Phoebe accepts Mitch's offer thinking that she no longer has to panic.  Phoebe's hopes are short lived when she finds herself falling for Mitch and the panic sets in again.<br />Phoebe and Mitch could have a wonderful future together, but first Mitch has to be willing to admit that what he is feeling is love.  Mitch has never thought of love as anything more than a four-letter word.  Watching the mighty Mitch fall is fun, and he not only falls for Phoebe, but for the kids too.	2001-11-14
US	52437017	RBJNUD62K9UTS	0373099606	836061321	Perfect Surprise (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Maggie Sullivan's goal that summer was to do research for her book.  However, she gets sidetracked upon finding a rain-soaked black lab.  Without saying a word she returns him to his owner and takes off.  <br />Colin McCallum wanted to be left alone.  He was happy that the woman took off after returning his dog, but when he sees her in town later he knows that he needs at least to thank her.  He finds himself attracted to Maggie, though it is the last thing that he wants.  Maggie is also drawn to Colin and is shocked when she discovers just whom Colin really is.<br />Maggie and Colin work hard at trying to deny their true feelings toward each other.  Maggie, especially, does not want Colin in the way of her well-planned future.  What Colin and Maggie do not seem to realize is that they are perfect for each other.  <br />This story is interesting because Colin must battle his past to have a future with Maggie.  Maggie must change her outlook of the future if she wants to add Colin to it.  Very interesting to see these two try to work things out.	2001-11-12
US	52437017	R33NU1GA3VFMAH	0373255985	684251608	C. J.'S Defense	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	C.J. Parker is determined to prove to her father that she can be a shrewd, tough defense attorney.  She also wants to show him that she is worthy of being his law partner.  C.J. also makes it clear that she wants to accomplish her goals herself, and not by riding on her famous lawyer father's coat tails.<br />Roarke Farrell is the acting district attorney and has already proved that he is one tough opponent in and out of the courtroom.  Roarke will not deny the fact that he wants C.J. and he knows that she wants him too.<br />C.J. refuses to get involved with a lawyer, but cannot deny that she is attracted to Roarke.  When C.J. finds herself being threatened over a case, and she naturally turns to Roarke.  Spending more time together only fans the flame that is burning between them.  Both seem to bring out the best and the worst in each other.  This is a good romance with a bit of mystery.	2001-11-12
US	52437017	R1CJGEBZCDLOSD	0373097875	952093553	He's a Bad Boy (Silhouette Special Edition, No 787)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Jackson Moore rescued Rachelle one night from Jackson's enemy Roy Fitzpatrick.  Roy turned on Jackson with a knife.  Jackson and Rachelle took off and hid in a neighboring house.  Before that night the only thing that Rachelle knew about Jackson was that he was the town bad boy.  Nevertheless, none of that mattered because now they were alone and all Rachelle wanted was to make love to Jackson.  Jackson knew it was wrong, but he wanted Rachelle as much as she wanted him.  After a night of passionate lovemaking Jackson and Rachelle were awakened by the police.  They stunned Rachelle when they charged Jackson with murder and she was his only alibi.  Jackson leaves town and Rachelle is left to deal with her ruined reputation.<br />Twelve years later both come back to find the truth.  There search for the truth will only bring them closer together or tear them further apart.  This was a story not only about the love between two people, but about a town filled with secrets and lies.  The truth became clear early in the book, but it was still nail biting when it was revealed.  This was an excellent start to the Mavericks series by Lisa Jackson.	2001-11-12
US	52437017	R2HD75G37DSVQ3	0373097891	632280450	Home on the Range (Silhouette Special Edition, No 789) (Western Lovers)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Lucie Crane is twenty four years old and has run away from home.  She finds herself at an isolated ranch in Idaho's Sawtooth Valley.  She lands a job as a cook at the Double H.  Unfortunately, Lucie grew up with servants, so she does not know how to cook.  She has also never run a dishwasher in her life.  Nevertheless, she needs a place to hide.  Boone Harlow, her boss, agrees not to ask her any questions about her past, which is exactly why the ranch is a perfect place for her to hide.<br />Boone Harlow needed a cook and someone to keep his elderly grandmother company.  He is having a hard time, however, remembering that Lucie is his employee.  He knows that the last thing he should do is touch or kiss her.  It gets harder and harder to remember that as the whole town plays matchmaker, including his grandmother.<br />Boone is a hardworking, decent, and most importantly an honest man.  Lucie knows that she must tell him the truth about her past and who she really is.  As more time goes by it gets harder for Lucie to tell Boone the truth.  Lucie can only hope that her lies do not blow up in her face.  This was a very enjoyable story with two very likable characters.  Lucie's antics in the kitchen bring in an added element of humor.	2001-11-12
US	52437017	R2VQYV6A2WNM24	0440196183	226791223	Winter's Flame (Candlelight Ecstasy Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Steven Michaels is a man that does not believe in love.  He never knew his father and his mother was the town party girl.  His grandmother raised Steven and she made it clear that she did not like Steven.  Steven shuts down his emotions to avoid getting hurt.  All the outside world sees is a handsome, womanizing, overgrown cowboy.<br />Tina Taggert is a widow and businesswoman.  Tina was hired to cater a dinner party at Steven's isolated ranch.  Tina never imagined that she would fall for a man like Steven or that he would fall for her.  Steven made it clear that he was not offering her promises of any kind.  Tina knew that underneath Steven's tough exterior was a vulnerable loving man.  Tina decides to show her love to Steven in the hope that someday he will return her love.<br />At first this book seemed one sided, that Steven was the one that was making a future impossible.  Tina, however, is creating some problems of her own, even if she is unaware of what she is doing.  It is interesting to see how this relationship progresses.  This was a very short romantic read.  I would have liked an epilogue at the end of this book, so we could get a glimpse of what the future had in store for these two	2001-11-08
US	52437017	R396ACLOTFZ6UJ	0373097980	677415211	Hasty Wedding (That Special Woman)	Books	4	31	34	N	N	:)	Reed Tonasket is the town bad boy.  He is set apart from others by his Native American heritage and the trouble that he caused as a rebellious teenager.  Reed does not care what the town thinks of him.  Reed carves totem poles and is very famous for his work.  Reed avoids the Anglo people in town as much as possible.  He finds it difficult, however, to avoid Clare Gilroy.  He hates the fact that out of all the women in the world he finds himself attracted to this beautiful Anglo woman.  Clare, of course, has no idea that Reed has worshiped her from a distance.<br />Clare has wanted a husband for some time now and thought that the man she has been engaged to for the last few years was the man for her.  Yet one look at Reed and Clare knew that he was the man meant for her.  On a trip to Las Vegas, where Clare was maid-of-honor and Reed was best man, they could not deny their attraction.  In a hasty decision they decide to get married.  It was not until they were ready to come home that they had second thoughts about what they did.<br />Clare and Reed run into several problems once they fly home.  They must stick together if they want their marriage to survive.  This was a wonderful story about a love that will not be denied.  I enjoyed reading about Clare and Reed, although I wanted to knock some since into Reed several times.  This was a good story that I would not hesitate to recommend.	2001-11-08
US	52437017	R20F97T9Z29VZ2	037376328X	874118606	Her Perfect Man (Man Of The Month) (Desire, 1328)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	:)	Bryce Burnette is a preacher that has a passion for what he does.  Katherine Mays is the town party girl.  Bryce and Katherine feel an instant attraction toward each other, but Katherine is unwilling to act on their attraction.  Bryce, on the other hand, is not a man to give up and Katherine is not a woman whom he wants to give up.  <br />Katherine has had a bad experience with a preacher in the past and feels that she cannot trust Bryce.  Katherine is also aware that because of her reputation and her business that the members of Bryce's church would not like seeing her and Bryce together.  With all of the obstacles in their way avoiding each other is still difficult for Bryce and Katherine.<br />This was an enjoyable short story, but I wish that it did not end so abruptly.  I would have enjoyed having another chapter to see how things turn out for Bryce and Katherine.	2001-11-07
US	52437017	R3HNRZG453ZFMP	0373059353	340920307	Hesitant Husband (Silhouette Desire)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Mitch Conner is a very proud and independent man.  Sometimes he lets that pride and independence get in the way.  Mitch is doing well at Armstrong Construction and knows that his future with the company looks very good.  Mitch wants to keep moving up in the company, but only if he succeeds on his own.  The one thing that Mitch did not count on was finding himself attracted to Kim Armstrong, the boss's daughter.<br />Kim has never felt for any man what she feels for Mitch.  Kim has a hard time understanding why he insists on pushing her away.  Kim hates that she is practically throwing herself at Mitch, but she cannot see any other way to keep him in her life.<br />Mitch and Kim love each other and the only thing standing in their way is Mitch's job.  Only, his job is not standing in the way, except in Mitch's head.  This is a great story with loads of potential, but its one problem was the major focal point of the story.  Mitch's pride and independence were constantly overshadowing everything including the love between Mitch and Kim.  At one point I wanted to smack Mitch for being so paranoid.  I cannot believe that Kim hung in there as long as she did.  Pride and independence are nice, but too much of it can be a bad thing.	2001-11-07
US	52437017	R3C5TOFU6F7OT9	0373243057	750666494	Who'S That Baby? (So Many Babies) (Special Edition, 1305)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Claire Davis has spent most of her life focusing on her career and her hard work has paid off because she is now a successful doctor.  The one void in Claire's life is a family.  She has always wanted a husband and children.<br />Johnny Winterhawk knows that love and people do not last.  His father died when Johnny was just a boy and his mother walked out on his life and his beloved grandfather eventually died as well.  Johnny, who is Native American feels that even his `people' turned their backs on him.  Johnny thought that his luck had changed when he got married, but that was until he found his wife in bed with another man.  Later his girlfriend walked out on him to go back to her old boyfriend.  The last thing that Johnny wants or expects is to find a baby on his doorstep with a note from his ex-girlfriend to take care of the baby.  <br />Johnny knows nothing about babies and frantically calls the local clinic and Claire shows up at his doorstep.  Claire has had a crush on Johnny since the first day that she laid eyes on him.  Now she has the chance to be close to him and to help him with his precious daughter Lucy.<br />Johnny and Claire spend a great deal of time together.  Claire finds herself falling in love with not only Johnny, but with baby Lucy as well.  Johnny, Claire, and Lucy are turning into quite a family.  They are both completely unaware of the many obstacles that they are facing and one that may blow their delightful little family apart.<br />This was a very well written story.  This could have been a story about a man who finds a baby on his doorstep and has to learn to deal with a daughter that he did not know that he had.  This story is that and so much more.	2001-11-07
US	52437017	R3SG0J0Q6KU549	0373763956	508542459	Some Kind Of Incredible (20 Amber Court, Book 2 / Silhouette Desire, No. 1395)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	:|	Nick Camden does not believe in marriage or love. He has devoted his life to his work and has never been tempted to change his lifestyle. Well, not until he starts looking at his secretary Lila Maxwell as more than just his secretary. Nick is sure that what he is feeling is simply lust and not love, but he is also aware that Lila is looking for forever. Nick knows that he should walk away now, but he can't.<br />Lila is a forever type of person. Her past makes her very aware of what other people think about her and she is determined to have a clean reputation. This could be problematic if she wants to have a relationship with Nick, because she does not want anyone to think badly of her for being involved with the boss.<br />Nick and Lila both come with a lot of baggage. At one point in the story I thought, &quot;enough all ready&quot;. I was tired of seeing them drag their feet, because both of them were trying to come up with excuses to break up, when they both wanted to be together. There was a big point made about the company that they work for being in danger of a hostile takeover, but we never find out what happens, or how it affects the characters. I hate to write a negative review, but in this case I had to. Besides reading about their pasts, and all of the reasons that they should not be together I found very little else that happened in this book.	2001-10-27
US	52437017	R3M66NIUA6HNDK	0373190093	651272354	Race To The Altar (Celebration 1000!) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Griff Garrison was almost a teenager when he met his father and was sent to live with him.  Griff was always on the outside of the family.  The one thing that Griff did feel apart of was his dad's ranch.  Griff loved the ranch and worked from sunup until sundown.  Now Griff has discovered that he may lose the ranch.  His dad is sick and has set up a contest between Griff and his stepbrother.  The first brother to get married and produce a grandchild will inherit controlling interest in the ranch.  Griff had no intention of ever getting married, but now he must or he will lose the one thing that he loves.<br />Griff runs into an old friend, Laney Jones and discovers that she is pregnant and broke.  Griff has this crazy idea to marry Laney and claim the child as his own.  Griff needs a wife and a baby, but he does not need or want love.  Laney has always loved Griff and does not want to marry him under these conditions, but she has little choice.  Laney wants more for her baby than she herself had.  <br />Laney and Griff marry because of a contest, but to stay married they will have to get past all the lies and reveal their true feelings.  Laney has always wanted a family and loving Griff would be easy for her.  Griff, however, has always felt alone and is afraid of caring for anyone.  Griff has one chance to be happy and unless he can confess his true feelings he will miss that chance at happiness and love.<br />I liked this story.  At times I wanted to smack Griff for being so pigheaded.  However, considering his family and his past, it was hard to dislike or not understand Griff.  This was a short, quick, romantic read.	2001-10-25
US	52437017	R25CIY5BL72W10	0373096194	581985937	The Girl Most Likely To	Books	2	2	2	N	N	:(	They hardly noticed Kate Beaumont in highschool.  Classmates voted her most likely to finish college.  So, when Kate got a letter inviting her to her high school reunion she knew she had to go.  Kate wanted to show her classmates that she made something of herself.  She did graduate from college and is a respected scientist in her field.  Kate knew that she could not go without a date, so she did something she never thought she would do, she hired a date.<br />Garrett Richmond was visiting his friend when Kate walked in and announced that she wanted him to escort her to her reunion.  Garrett could feel her nervousness, and the last thing he wanted to do was embarrass her by telling her he did not work for the agency.  Garrett found himself liking this woman and decided to make her reunion a night to remember.  Garrett's plans went up in smoke when he discovered just how much he liked Kate, and he knew that he had to tell her who he really is.<br />I have read plenty of books where the male is stronger than the female in many ways, but never more so than in this book.  Kate was supposedly an intelligent scientist, but when it came to men, she was dumber than a box of rocks.  Kate's biggest problem was that she had little to no self esteem.  Garrett wanted Kate to experience her `female powers' so that she could eventually move on to a more serious relationship.  Kate, however, seemed to take dating and men as a game.  She was, at times, trying to prove something to Garrett or make him jealous.  There were also the other men that she dated, and I think, she leads them on.  I was not impressed with this book.  Kate's insecurities overshadowed anything else the author tried to say.	2001-10-22
US	52437017	R9JBWGZUDKJE3	0373163312	653926275	Outside In (#331)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	:(	Jill never thought that she would willingly go back to highschool especially at the age of twenty-seven.  Jill knew that however much she hated the thought of highschool again she had no other choice but to enter the school as a senior.  Jill's one goal was to find out what happened to her sister Susan.  They told her family that she killed herself but Jill knew better.  Susan would never have committed suicide.  Highschool was more difficult and more fun than Jill ever thought it would be.  Jill snubbed the cheerleaders and hung out with the jocks.  Making things more difficult was the fact that Jill was terribly attracted to her civics teacher.<br />Doug Lacayo was disgusted with himself.  Never before has he felt such an attraction to a student.  Jill was driving him crazy with her overwhelming sensual personality.  Man he wanted her and knew he could not have her and it was all too much.  He could lose his job or end up in jail if he acted on his thoughts.<br />I found this story humourous at times, but unreal at others.  How could a twenty-seven-year-old pass as a seventeen-year-old?  Okay, that might be possible, but Jill took it too far by actually dating some high school boys.  If that were not bad enough, she allowed them into her apartment and drank alcohol with them.  Jeez, just how many laws was she breaking.  Add to that is what she was doing to Doug.  The man is a teacher and she cannot seem to understand why he is paranoid to be alone with a student, isn't it obvious.  I thought her nickname of Lolita in the book was right on target.  Although the attraction was evident while Doug and Jill were pretending to be teacher and student, it seemed to me that it went out the window once Jill revealed the truth.  It was like the attraction was in the forbidden.  Not only that but the mistrust that Jill has for Doug was totally unwarranted.  If anything Doug is the one that should be concerned about trusting Jill. <br />I thought the story had lots of potential, but the more that I read the more disappointed that I became.  The plot was great, but in the end I felt that it fell flat.	2001-10-19
US	52437017	R1P1F5A5XH5B0L	0373075057	887248146	Hell On Wheels (Silhouette Intimate Moments #505) (10th Anniversary) (American Hero)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Shay McKittrick felt like he died along with his wife two years ago.  Shay had no interest in anything or anyone.  As a truck driver, he was pretty much on his own.  But, one rainy night, a woman comes into the caf where he stopped to get a bite to eat and Shay could not help but notice her.  <br />Cait Sawyer ran away from the mental hospital that her step father had her in.  Cait knows that he is responsible for her mothers death and now he is trying to kill her, but make it look like she was crazy and suicidal.  Cait saw a chance to escape and she ran to the caf hoping that someone would help her.  Unfortunately, the hospital staff, doctors, her step father, and the authorities find her at the caf, but before they catch her she manages to slip out the back door.<br />The last thing that Shay wanted to find when he got back out to his truck was the crazy woman from the caf.  Shay knew she was trouble and he wanted no part of it, but he knew that if what she said was true than he could not turn her in either.  <br />Shay and Cait learn a lot about themselves and each other on there road trip.  Unfortunately, their time together may be a lot shorter than they thought.  Cait's step father has no intention of letting her or anyone who tries to help her live.  Very interesting and captivating story.  It's not often that you read a romance novel that has a handsome trucker as the leading male character.  I would love to read about Shay's brother-in-law, Rick Jarvis.	2001-10-17
US	52437017	RRPR0KMFP26M4	0373074891	244538130	Two against the World (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 489)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	This is the sequel to 'Two for the Road' which featured Ali Sullivan.  In this book, however, Alicia tries to change her ways from the first book.  Alicia was always impulsive, reckless, and finding herself in trouble.  Unfortunately, others usually paid for the trouble in which Alicia found herself.  Alicia was trying to be the woman that everyone wanted her to be.  She had a steady job and practically engaged to a very straight as an arrow type of man.  Alicia was supposed to meet this man in Colorado for a pleasant vacation.  On the way, Alicia's car gets stuck in a snowbank, she is half frozen, and eventually collapses in the snow.<br />The last thing that Steven Rider wanted to do was deal with a half dead frozen female.  Although it was a risk, he decided to help the woman.  It was crazy, he could be helping save the life of the woman whom they sent there to kill him.  Steven was in the secluded cabin until he could testify against his old boss and than he was entering the Witness Protection Program.  Trusting the unconscious woman could be a deadly mistake, but finding himself attracted to her could be even deadlier.  <br />Alicia and Steven were trapped at the cabin in a snowstorm.  Denying their attraction became harder with every passing minute, but both were determined not to give in.  Alicia did not want to slip back into her reckless ways by getting involved with this handsome man, whom she was not sure she could trust.  Steven knew he had nothing to offer Alicia, not even the truth about who he was, but keeping his distance was becoming unbearable.     <br />Alicia's story was just as good as Ali's.  Alicia and Steven have so much standing in their way.  The odds of them having a future is almost nonexistent.  It was intriguing to discover how each of them decide to deal with their pasts and what they will do to have a future.  The best part of all was that the author stayed true to the character of Alicia from the last book to this book. Highly recommended.	2001-10-17
US	52437017	R1XC7AZYPQOJAZ	0373096631	406454432	On The Whispering Wind (Special Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	Widower Mackenzie Harrow had only one plan, to close down his Whispering Wind dude ranch.  Mac blamed himself and the ranch for the death of his wife.  Mac firmly believed that the best thing to do was to get himself and his daughter away from the ranch into a nice house in the suburbs.  Only Mac's daughter Elizabeth did not want to leave the ranch.  Through a lot of pleading and scheming on her part she managed to plan it so that another widower and her son wound up being guests at the ranch.  <br />Maggie Connor wanted two weeks at a dude ranch for her and her son.  She heard of the ranch when one afternoon over a year ago Maggie managed to help Elizabeth and her grandparents, and in return Elizabeth told her about her dad's ranch.  Maggie never thought that she would be so unwelcome once she got there.  If it were not for the storm outside Maggie would have gladly left the ranch.  Mac was out right nasty to Maggie and the last thing she wanted to do was stay where she was not wanted.<br />Mac did not know why he was so hostile to Maggie.  He did know that he did not want any more guests at the ranch, especially this woman who stirs things in him that he would rather she did not.  All Elizabeth wanted was for Maggie to help her dad be happy again.  If her dad were happy than maybe he would not sell their ranch.  However, unless Mac tries to put the past behind him than he does not stand a chance at a future.  There were several times in the story I found myself wanted to skip pages that were rather boring, but I stuck with it.  The overall storyline was good even if it had some dull moments.	2001-10-12
US	52437017	R1IJR6XGIUBML9	0373053657	96932799	No Walls Between Us (Silhouette Desire)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Paige MacKenzie liked her independence to the point of being stubborn.  Paige never wanted to ask anyone for help and as a result she was stretching herself too thin as a woman, mother, and business woman.  She was trying to get her business up and going, but to do that she had to spend less time with her four-year-old son.  Paige did not think that things could get much worse, but she was wrong.  Paige could not believe her new neighbor was looking back at her through a huge hole in her living room wall.  <br />Marc d' Angelo planned to spend his summer fixing up his new house.  He never wanted his new neighbor to suffer because of it.  As if the hole were not bad enough, he accidentally cut off her water too.  Not to mention the problems she was having that were not his fault.  Her skylight was leaking, her walls were crumbling, and her kitchen cabinets were falling.  Lucky for Paige Marc's family is in the construction business.  Marc started to take care of not just her house, but her and her son as well.  The more he tried to help the more she pushed him away.<br />Marc is a man that feels it is his duty to shelter and protect others.  Marc does not see that too much helping can eventually be considered interfering.  Paige was raised by a father who was always trying to `help' her, so she rebelled by becoming fiercely independent, but too much independence is not always a good thing.  <br />If Paige and Marc could both find a middle ground, they could probably have a future together, which would probably be wonderful for everyone including Paige's son.  This is a good story with two very strong independent characters.  I enjoyed the fact that both characters were so strong and that if they were to have a future it would be out of want and not need.	2001-10-12
US	52437017	R7PIEK8UJQY8	0373194722	323585246	Gleam In His Eye (Silhouette Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Johanna Durbin wanted her own apartment, her own life, and independence.  Johanna wanted to spend her time with people over the age of twenty-one.  Johanna has spent most of her life helping to raise her brothers and sisters.  Soon Johanna expected to have her freedom.  After she graduates from college, she plans on moving out and starting her life.  The last thing that Johanna expected was to fall for a man with not one, but four small children to raise.<br />Hunter Pace was the perfect bachelor.  Hunter was handsome, had a good job, and women falling all over him.  Hunters' world seemed to change overnight when his brother and sister-in-law were killed leaving Hunter to raise their four children.  Hunter did not mind taking care of his niece and nephews, and he loved the little rugrats.  Hunter never thought that he would be the type to settle down and marry.  Nevertheless, his life has changed and the children need a mother.  Johanna would be the perfect mother-now all he had to do was convince her.<br />I was disappointed with this story.  The comedy was great-Hunter was a witty character.  I just found myself bored through most of the chapters.  I thought that once Hunter and Johanna made a stab at trying to make things work with each other that the story might heat up, but instead that is where it ended.  I just felt that there was so much more to the story left untold.	2001-10-10
US	52437017	R23O4BI19IFTLG	0373075472	496231440	A Wanted Man (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 547)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Mike Lanagan is a big-city reporter.  He has his own column in a very popular Chicago newspaper.  Mike's specialty was helping those that could not help themselves.  This time, however, he took on more than he could handle.  Someone wanted Mike dead and he never thought of himself as a coward, but now he was running for his life.<br />Lucy Brown was stubborn and very independent.  Lucy liked to be in control, she needed to be in control.  The last thing that Lucy expected was to stumble upon some drifter asleep in her barn.  Lucy thought that she could turn a bad situation into a profitable one by hiring Mike to help her around the farm.  Mike decided that it might be a good place to hide out and he had to admit that he liked the idea of spending more time with Lucy.<br />Mike and Lucy are terrific characters.  The attraction between them is obvious, but so is the fact that they are both hiding something-Lucy hides her feelings and Mike hides the truth about himself.  Mike hated deceiving Lucy, but he knew that he had no choice unless he wanted to put her in danger.  <br />Mike is one of the rare good men out there.  He fights for others and is willing to sacrifice his own happiness to protect the woman that he loves.  I truly enjoyed this story.  I usually find myself disappointed with the conclusions of stories lately, but that is not so this time.  Kathleen Creighton gave us, and, Mike and Lucy a very fitting ending.  This is my first book by this author, but it will not be the last.	2001-10-10
US	52437017	R3CS0KZO9TUSVI	0373098154	588762400	This I Ask of You (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 815)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	:(	Nikki Spencer went running from her home and the two people she has known and loved all her life.  Something spooked Nikki, but it was unclear what that something was.  She is injured in her mad dash to get away and lands at the doorstep of a stranger.  <br />Adam Kendall treasured his peace and isolation from the rest of the world.  He had a small group of friends that he trusted, but that is it.  The one thing that Adam would never trust is a woman.  Adam found out the hard way that women are never to be trusted.  When Nikki landed at his door it was not only unexpected, but unwanted.  The problem was that Adam could see that Nikki needed help and what type of person would Adam be if he did not help her.  The more he helped the harder her the harder it was for him to remember that he did not want her there.  <br />Nikki knew that Adam was fighting his own battles and that she really should leave, but the more that she got to know Adam the harder it was to leave.  Nikki knew that she was going to have to face her past eventually, but when she did she was afraid she would lose Adam forever.<br />I was disappointed with this story and the way that it ended.  I found Nikki's `sudden terror' and later her running away without knowing why unbelievable.  To be honest, I was more interested in Adam's past story.  The fact that he could walk away from a little girl without knowing for sure if she were his daughter, well, that made me angry.  The conclusion of Adam and his past, Adam and Nikki, and Nikki and her family were completed within a chapter.  It was a total let down to have the book just end the way it did especially when it was just getting good.	2001-10-08
US	52437017	R3RYP2ZW2KL4EI	0373075448	983119287	Midnight Man (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 544)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Jenny Cooper Hurani was desperate after her ex-husband kidnaped their son and whisked him away to the Middle East.  Jenny has gone through all of the proper legal channels, but no one has helped her.  Jenny than discovered an organization that can help her.  <br />Mike Brennan was still recovering from an injury and all of his men were currently out in the field handling other jobs, but he had a hard time turning Jenny away.  Nevertheless, when Jenny insisted on going with him to get her son back, Mike put his foot down.  Unfortunately, Mike's foot did not stay down for long, Jenny made sure of that.  There was no way she was going to let Mike go without her.<br />Jenny let her emotions as a parent override common sense.  Mike knew what he was doing and he got help from a very good friend, Prince Kumar Ben Ari.  Jenny knew she should listen to Mike, but she let her feelings as a parent get in the way.  They were on foreign land and life is different, but still Jenny refuses to cooperate.  If Mike and Jenny are going to get through this and get her son back, and, have a chance at a future, than they need to learn to work together as a team.  The story was intriguing and kept me turning the pages, but by the end I wanted to know more about Mike's friend Kumar Ben Ari.  Fortunately, Mike's friend has his own story in Desert Man, the next book by Barbara Faith.	2001-10-05
US	52437017	R3M3F0PG12AR0W	0373099754	308268743	Scarlet Woman (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Holly Moran was the young woman from the poor side of town, who found herself attracted to the son of the town's most powerful richest man.  Holly later ran off and married the young man that she loved, Alan Van Arsdale.  Alan's father cut him off completely, from money and personal contact.  He still kept in touch with his older brother, Clint, mostly to ask him for money.  Holly's marriage went from bad to worse.  Alan was killed in a car accident for which she took the blame.  Holly knew she could never go back to her hometown where everyone hated her and blamed her for Alan's death.  However, many years later, she had to come home to be with her aunt at the hospital.<br />Clint Van Arsdale knew that he should avoid his brother's widow, but he could not.  Clint has always found himself attracted to Holly.  He also did not want to blame her for his brother's death, though the evidence points right at her.  Clint wanted to spend time with Holly, even knowing his father hated her.  <br />Clint and Holly could not be more different, yet the passion between them is undeniable.  The  things they find impossible to ignore are always between them: His father, her family, the fact that she is his brother's widow, the accident that killed his brother, and his brother's trust fund that he is afraid that Holly is after.  They need to talk to each other, trust each other, and take a leap of faith with each other, or risk possibly losing the love of a lifetime.	2001-10-05
US	52437017	R39BICSS588R1B	0373076649	253714506	Trouble In Texas (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Dr. Alexandra Courtland is literally running from her past.  She has never wanted to live in her hometown of Midland, for the simple reason, that her father is there.  Her father, a well known, powerful man, has not made life easy for his daughters.  Alex has never taken the time to grieve over her husbands death.  She has just spent a year in war torn Bosnia and immediately returned to her job in the U.S. as an emergency room doctor.  Her time in Bosnia left her unable to do her job in the U.S., so she took off.  Her journey has lead her through the small town of Saddle.  The last thing that Alex wants is to have to spend any time in the small town that reminds her of the one in which she grew up.  Unfortunately, her car `mysteriously' breaks down and she has no choice but to stay in Saddle for a few days.<br />Deputy Sheriff Derek Gray has had his own share of pain in the past.  Years in the Military always change a man, not to mention the years as a cop in a large city.  Derek has also suffered through a nasty bitter divorce.  The only good thing to come out of the marriage is his daughter, Sarah.   The last thing that Derek wants is to get involved with another woman, but he cannot help but be attracted to Alex.<br />Putting their personal problems and feelings for each other aside, the town of Saddle is in trouble.  There is a possibility of a drug smuggling ring operating in the small town, and, a possible epidemic.  Whether Alex likes it or not the town of Saddle needs her, and she needs them.  This is a story filled with mystery, intrigue, and romance from beginning to end.  Highly enjoyable story filled with likable characters, including secondary characters like Sarah.	2001-10-03
US	52437017	R36WZDTIA4W93C	0373077254	847683742	Hero In Hiding (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Doctor Mercy Hamilton has been looking forward to spending a year at the free clinic in Ciudad Bravo.  The people there desperately need the medical care that she can provide.  What Mercy did not count on was the wounded man that showed up at her home holding a knife to her throat.  The handsome and sexy stranger demanded that she treat his wounds and not report him to the sheriff.  Mercy knew because of her oath as a doctor that she would take care of this man.  She knew that she should report him to the sheriff, but for some reason she did not want to put Rio in harms way.  Besides, Mercy has heard stories about the sheriff, and she is not sure that she trusts the man.<br />Rio Barrigan knew that the only thing that should matter to him was the job that he promised to do, but he could not seem to get Mercy out of his head.  He could not tell her the truth about himself or what he does for a living.  The lies and secrets would always be between them.  Not only that, but Rio's job was dangerous and he did not want to put Mercy in danger.<br />Rio and Mercy each have their own reasons for avoiding each other, but the attraction that both felt was stronger than their reasons for staying away.  Still, unless they can be honest and trust each other, they will doom their relationship to fail.<br />This was a very exciting fast paced story.  Rio and Mercy are both characters that you can enjoy right from the beginning.  Rio and Mercy are perfect for each other, you can feel it in every page as the story progresses, but you can also feel the danger building.  If the reader pays attention, than it is easy to see the truth before the author reveals it, but it takes nothing away from the depth of that truth once it is revealed.  A very good story, highly recommended.	2001-10-01
US	52437017	RMYOVBPDTP5MI	0373076606	828686030	True Lies (Silhouette Sensation) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 660)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	I finished reading True Blue and was unsure whether or not I would like this book.  In the previous book, Bruce Prentice struck me as a cop that puts his job before people.  He was not a real likable secondary character, but he makes a good leading man in True Blue.  Ingrid Weaver stayed true to Bruce's character as a cop who puts his job above everything and everyone else.  In this book, however, we find out why he has become the man that he is.  This is not a man without feelings, but a man who feels deeply and has suffered a great deal.<br />Emma Cassidy has also suffered in her life and has had the added burden of raising her brother Simon.  Unfortunately, Emma does not trust cops and Bruce doesn't trust Emma.  And right now they are both on the opposite sides of the law.  Simon has gotten himself involved in illegal activity.  It is Bruce's job as an undercover agent to get all the information he can and stop it.  Bruce wants to believe that Emma is not involved in the illegal activity with her brother, but he can not be sure.  Emma feels it is her responsibility to help get her brother out of trouble no matter what the danger is to herself.  Even with their many differences they find themselves drawn to each other.  They try hard to fight their attraction and the danger that surrounds them.  This is a story of two individuals who could not be more different yet have so many things in common.  A common theme throughout this book would have to be that, `we do not have any choice over the people that we love'.  Emma and Bruce can fight it all they want, but the love is there.  This is a story about two people willing to face the truth about themselves and their pasts, so that they might have a chance at a future.	2001-09-30
US	52437017	R3SA2KI6XHEFYJ	0373098162	522806962	The Forever Night (Silhouette Special Edition No. 816)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Straight as an arrow sheriff Andy Johnson let go of all his protective control one lonely night and fell into bed with his exact opposite, Ginny Bradford.  Ginny is wild, unorganized, and a total spitfire.  Both were feeling lonely and needed some comfort, and so they took it from each other.  Afterwards, feeling guilty for what he had done, Andy does his best to stay clear of Ginny.  He has his life mapped out and he does not want to let this hellcat interfere in his plans.  But, all that changes when Ginny turns up pregnant.  As the local school teacher in a small town, Andy knew Ginny would have a hard time.  <BR>Andy tried to offer marriage for both of their sakes, but they hate each other.  Neither of them wants to be tied to the other because of one night.  It is only after speaking with their family, friends, and the doctor that Ginny and Andy decide that they should get married, if not for their sakes, than at least for the sake of their unborn baby.  If they don't kill each other, they may find out that they have a lot in common.<br />I like Ginny's quick wit which balances out Andy's serious side.  It was only towards the end that I wanted to strangle Ginny.  I felt that she was extremely hard on Andy and highly critical.  I know that her hormones were high after just having the baby, but she was still acting completely selfish.  Andy could not have been a more kind or considerate husband.  And through a lot of the book she complained that Andy never said that he loved her.  Well, actually he did, once, granted he thought that she was asleep.  Ginny, on the other hand, wanted him to say it out loud to her, but why should he, she never did.  I liked the storyline a lot, my only problem was personal, and it was centered around Ginny's attitude.  I hated that Andy constantly bent to her wishes and was always apologizing.  I just felt that Ginny's insecurities went a bit too far.	2001-09-29
US	52437017	R23I7TWKNFDPV0	0373075707	453722960	True Blue (Silhouette Sensation) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 570)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Mike Hogan has had a hard life.  His mother gave birth to him when she herself was just a child.  She died young, which left Mike to grow up in foster homes.  He turned to auto crime, but eventually straightened out his life.  Later, he found himself in jail for a crime he did not commit, and his only way out after five years was to go undercover for the cops.  Mike hates cops, but he loves his freedom.  Mike had no intention of getting involved with the prim and proper school teacher, Rebecca Stanford.  Mike knew that his life was a mess at the moment and he had no business involving her.  <br />Rebecca has always played it safe, but where has safe got her.  Her parents are both dead, her husband ran off with a teenage stripper, and she is afraid to let anyone know that she likes Dirty Harry movies.  Rebecca needs excitement, but the excitement that she gets with Mike may be much more than she can handle.<br />The last thing Mike wants is to have Rebecca get caught up in his undercover mess.  It makes it even worse that he cannot tell Rebecca the truth about his life, both past and present.  Mike would do anything for his freedom, except letting Rebecca get hurt.  If the police don't protect her than he will.   This is a story of one man's struggle to survive and make something out of his life, and one woman, who makes his life worth living.  This is a great love story with a constant presence of danger lurking about.  It will be interesting to read the next story True Lies, involving Prentice, a cop that I did not believe that I could like after this story, and the pressure he put on Mike.	2001-09-29
US	52437017	R2BV7T3CSJYSTP	0373076428	514221699	Shelter In His Arms (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Jack McDermott loved being a cop and he was good at his job until a bullet threatened to kill his dream forever.  He is working to try and get back the strength in his hand and leg so that he can continue his job.  He was thrilled that his cousin, best friend, and fellow cop asked for his help.  Jack was unprepared for the hurt beauty he was now supposed to protect.  He was even more unprepared for the feelings that she stirred up in him.  Libby Stratton has had a hard lonely life.  She has learned not to count on anyone but herself.  But Jack McDermott was different than most people she knows.  He is her hero, the man that saved her, and vows to protect her.  <br />Libby and Jack are each battling the hurt and pain of their pasts.  But, the danger that surrounds their lives in the present brings them closer and closer together.  They can continue to fight their attraction for each other or give in to a love that they both deserve.  This is a great story with several layers.  Jack and Libby along with a healthy dose of secondary characters provided a captivating story with both mystery and romance.	2001-09-27
US	52437017	R3GA5S5OZXCEUW	0373074727	568184739	Two for the Road (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 472)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Alison and Alicia Sullivan are twin sisters, but could never be more different.  Ali is vulnerable, innocent, and basically the all around good twin.  Alicia, on the other hand, is the more outgoing twin.  Alicia seems to always get in trouble and Ali is always the one to bail her out.  So, when Alicia finds herself in protective custody until she can testify against some mobster's son, she calls on her twin.  Ali has even more bad news for Alicia, the twins foster mother is in the hospital.  Ali agrees to switch places with her sister for the weekend, so that Alicia can visit the hospital.  Only Ali never knew just how dangerous the situation was that Alicia was in.  The danger was not just from the mob, but also from the gorgeous man assigned to be her bodyguard.  Ali finds herself falling for Jack.  Ali knows that Jack is everything that she has ever wanted, but she also knows that she will probably lose him forever when he discovers her true identity.    <br />This was a very interesting romance on the run type tale, but with a twist.  Having twins who switch places added a great deal to the story.  I have to admit that what Alicia and Alison did seemed pretty stupid considering the risks involved, but it made the story that much more fun.  I cannot wait to read Alicia's story next.	2001-09-25
US	52437017	R3NVRN87VPVSF2	0373075782	901059960	Desert Man : (Romantic Traditions) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 578)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Josie McCall seems like a beautiful intelligent woman, but she is not perfect.  Josie has one prejudice-Middle Eastern Men.  She lumps them all together as chauvinistic and believes that they treat their women as second-class citizens.  Josie is highly upset that her best friend Jenny and Jenny's soon to be husband Mike would have Prince Kumar Ben Ari as their best man.  Josie was sure that Jenny learned her lesson about trusting middle eastern men during her first marriage.  Jenny's first husband abused her and kidnaped their son.  Jenny assures Josie that Kumar is a man of honor, and he played an important role in helping her get her son back.  Josie still refuses to believe that Kumar is a decent person.<br />Kumar does not understand Josie at all.  He is highly attracted to her and he usually has women throwing themselves at him.  Kumar decides to take things into his own hands and goes behind Josie's back to get the U.S. government to send Josie to Kumar's country as an International Health representative.  Kumar strongly believes that he can turn Josie's attitude around about him and his country, if she would just give him a chance.  Josie is ticked off that Kumar did this, but she knows that she cannot refuse.  Now Josie is in Kamar's country and sparks fly both literally and figuratively.  <br />I was not sure if I would enjoy this story, but it was really good.  It kept me interested from beginning to end.  I wish there was an epilogue at the end to get a glimpse of what the future would have been like for Josie and Kamar.  This was my first book by this author, but it will not be my last.	2001-09-23
US	52437017	R20EOI7S21405	0373706863	215637012	The Water Baby: Family Man (Harlequin Superromance No. 686)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	:)	Temple Wyatt had money, power, hotels, resorts, but none of that mattered.  More than anything Temple wanted his little girl back.  His ex-wife Miranda kidnaped her and now no one can find them.  After months of agonizing and praying for his little girl he sees his daughter Rebecca during a TV interview.  Rebecca was on a yacht that exploded killing her mother and her mother's rich friend.  Rebecca was flung out to sea and rescued by a shrimper, Daisy Sloan.  For some reason Rebecca remembers nothing and says nothing.  The only person she allows to comfort her is Daisy.  The doctors seem to think that Daisy is the little girl's anchor.  Temple is distraught at the senseless act that took his ex-wife's life and could have killed his daughter.  Temple is even more distraught that his daughter does not seem to recognize him or anyone else except the strange Miss Sloan.  Like it or not Daisy and Temple are stuck with each other for Rebecca's sake.  Hopefully they will survive the danger that surrounds them, not to mention surviving each other, long enough to face the attraction that simmers between them.<br />Interesting and captivating story.  I was sucked into the story from beginning to end.  In the beginning, however, I was not at all happy about Daisy's attitude regarding Temple's place with his daughter.  I realize that everyone was looking at this through Rebecca's emotional state.  However, Temple went through Hell and back while his daughter was gone.  Than to get her back under such awful circumstances, only to be told that Daisy Sloan was trying to take charge of the child.  What if Rebecca never recovered?  I would think that it would be in her best interest to have her father in her life.  Oh well, that is just my own complaint.  The story was well written and deserved all five stars.	2001-09-19
US	52437017	RXNHHFQHQVQDE	0373098170	798591098	A Winter's Rose (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 817)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	:)	Jackson Reese married a pampered princess only to later have his heart broken.  Jackson could never regret his relationship with his ex because without her he would never have had his daughter.  Jackson loves his daughter, Chloe, with all his heart.  He loves her although she acts just like her pampered mother.  Chloe has been staying with him since they kicked her out of boarding school.  She has also been through lots of babysitters.  Jackson has no idea what to do next.  That is, until he gets pressured and blackmailed to hire Bentley Cunningham.  Bentley's mother donates money to Jackson's nonprofit organization, so he feels like he has no choice but to hire the woman.  Jackson has no respect for the stuck up, pampered, society princess that struts into his office.  He finally agrees to give Bentley a job as his daughter's babysitter.  He figures it will not take her long to quit and run back to her daddy's credit cards.  Jackson discovers that he does not know the first thing about Bentley Cunningham.  Bentley learns a lot about herself and the world outside her father's money.  The story was even more interesting with the addition of Jackson's daughter Chloe who was a major part of the story.  I have to admit that I do not know how Bentley stuck it out with Jackson so long.  It takes a strong woman to put up with all of Jackson's insecurities.	2001-09-19
US	52437017	R2XH87QLYCFBC6	0821762796	964569208	Sweet Tempest (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Florida meteorologist Kelly Tucker is carrying on the work of her late father Sherman Tucker.  Taking an assignment at the Gulf Hurricane Center was important to Kelly, but she was unprepared to run into Ross King the man she blames for her fathers death.   Kelly is not about to let her feelings for Ross get in the way of her job.  Only someone does not want Kelly to do her job.  The threatening notes could be chalked up to some coworkers petty jealousy, but when Kelly's personal safety is put in jeopardy she knows the threat is more dangerous than she first thought.  <br />Ross King finds himself attracted to Kelly, but cannot let his feelings for her get in the way of him doing his job.  Ross is at the Center to investigate possible sabotage of the Center's weather predictions.  Mistakes have been piling up and evacuation warnings have come in late.  So far no lives have been lost, but property damage has been severe.  Now Kelly herself is in danger and Ross will do anything to protect her whether she likes it or not.<br />I was a bit bored with the story.  I thought that the suspense part of it was easy to figure out.  It did not take a rocket scientist to see who the bad guy was.  The romance or `love' story happened a bit too quickly considering the characters past feelings towards each other.  And other than what is on the surface you never really find out much about the characters, their pasts, or who they really are.  There just did not seem to be any depth to the story or the characters.  But, from the information that we did get about Kelly and Ross, I liked them I just would have liked to know more.	2001-09-16
US	52437017	R2TNCG72PM1BDU	0373097638	483728122	That Boy From Trash Town (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	One day six year old Whitney met fourteen year old Dean and life after was never the same.  Dean was Whitney's hero, the bad boy from trash town, and Whit loved him.  As she got older her love for Dean got stronger, but Dean saw Whit's affections as a crush.  Dean tried distancing himself before he acted on his own feelings, but Whitney would not allow it.  Dean openly talked of other women that he was involved with, but secretly Whitney knew they did not mean anything to him.  The turning point came when a devastating family secret was revealed and a distraught Whitney went running to the one man she had always been able to count on.  Only when she burst into his house, she found a just showered naked Dean.  Instead of showing his true feelings Dean lashed out with angry hurtful words.  Whitney ran from the house and disappeared that night.  A worried Dean knew he had to search for her, but was unprepared for what he found.   <br />This is a story of the rich pampered girl who falls for the poor boy from the wrong part of town.  It was a good storyline, but a bit dragged out.  I found myself getting bored with all the secrets and unveiled feelings.  And after all the lies and secrets were revealed things were tied up too quickly in a neat little bow.  It was an okay story, but it could have been a lot better.	2001-09-16
US	52437017	R11I56M0N29CI9	0373036094	218743862	The Boss's Bride (Marrying The Boss) (Harlequin Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Claris Newman had a job as Adam Turmaine's assistant.  She was also helping him take care of his godson while the child's parents were staying in the hospital after a car accident.  Claris knew she was attracted to her boss, but she also knew that he would never be interested in her.  Apparently, the whole town knew that she was not Adam's type.  Only the housekeeper for some strange reason felt that Claris was just the right woman for Adam.  Claris tried not to pay any attention to any of it, but than Adam started acting differently around Claris.  <br />Claris goes from being a strong female character with a backbone to a self-doubting fickle woman.  Almost the entire story is told through her thoughts and feelings, as well as, her dialogue with others.  There was might be a page where the reader actually gets inside of Adam's head to find out what his thoughts are.  Through the entire book you could feel the story building and building, but than it kind of falls flat.  The story was okay, but I did not find any real excitement.  Maybe the author never intended for the story to be more than it was, a quick short read.  The story of an unlikely couple who find true love.  I think I just wanted to see more of the love that they find instead of just a quick teasing glimpse.	2001-09-16
US	52437017	R2HNJTU0ULC5MZ	0804119708	300550023	Over the Edge (Troubleshooters, Book 3)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	:)	I bought this book the day that it came out. I am an avid reader. I started this book at 10:30pm and stayed up until 3:30am in the morning to finish. You know that you have read a really good book when several weeks later you are still thinking about the characters and their stories. I LOVE the 'troubleshooter' series. I enjoyed Heart Throb, and although it will also remain one of my favorites, it still takes a back burner to The Unsung Hero, The Defiant Hero, and Over the Edge.  <br />The SEAL Team 16 Troubleshooters are called on to take down a group of terrorists that have hijacked an airplane and forced it to land in Kazbekistan, which is better known as &quot;the Pit&quot; to Brockmann's readers. Lt. Teri Howe is a rescue pilot and a woman used to being harassed by men. Senior Chief Stan Wolchonok sees the harassment and does not like it. Stan gets permission to have Teri join his SEAL team on a training mission. Stan felt that it would get her away from the man currently harassing her and he would be there to look after her. Stan had no idea that a simple training mission would turn into a real mission, or that his feelings for Teri would become so complicated. Once landing in Kazbekistan the SEAL team began intense drills preparing themselves to overtake the plane with the hijackers. In the meantime, hostage negotiator Max tries desperately to speak to the hijackers, but is only able to speak to a young woman passenger. Gina has put her life on the line to protect the rest of those on the plane and now her only lifeline is the faceless man, Max. And in her usual style, Ms. Brockmann, gives us her story within a story that involves a tragic love story that took place during WWII. This story is told by Helga, a Holocaust survivor, who is currently suffering from Alzheimer's. Ms. Brockmann also brings back a very popular pair, SEAL member Sam Starrett and FBI sharpshooter Alyssa Locke.  <br />My favorite couple is, of course, Sam and Alyssa. Although at the endof Over The Edge I wanted to cry for them both. I am still reeling from what happened to Gina, Sam, and Alyssa. I hated the ugliness that happened to Gina. I could not believe I actually cried for this character and for Max and the others who were there to hear everything the poor young woman went through at the hands of the terrorists. I have hundreds of books from many different authors, but none have touched me like this series. It must be a great thrill to make characters come alive. I actually feel like I know all of them. I hope that Sam and Alyssa find there way back to each other in a future book. I also hope Gina finds happiness after all she has been through. And lets not forget poor Tom and Kelly who are still unmarried. Over the Edge takes you on an emotional roller coaster. I admit that when I got to the last page I, at first, felt cheated. I thought no way could this story be over. Like another reviewer said, I wanted to throw the book across the room. But, several days later, when I was still thinking about the story and its characters, I knew that the storytelling was beyond good. Yes, it was extremely tragic and emotionally draining with very small glimpses of romance and humor, but because of the dark side the reader was pushed into finding the positives of every story. The outcomes to several of the stories could have been far worse than they were. I have never read a book that has left me feeling as drained as this one did. As another reviewer stated, this is not a &quot;get away from reality&quot; book. I would also highly recommend that you read The Unsung Hero and The Defiant Hero before reading Over the Edge. Ms. Brockmann has me hooked and impatiently waiting for her next book in this series. Thank You Ms. Brockmann for the love and passion of the characters that you write about that is so clearly evident on every page.	2001-09-14
US	52437017	RP6P9AVB85CMK	037370819X	234917337	Love, Lies & Alibis: Love That Man (Harlequin Superromance No. 819)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Jake Monroe is back after spending the last ten years in prison.  Jake is home and wants his life back.  First he must prove that he is innocent of the murder that he was convicted of, as well as, the recent robberies that have plagued the town since his return.  Jake is a proud man who has lost so much, but not even Jake knows everything that going to jail cost him.<br />Rachel Penning did not have the courage to stand up for Jake ten years ago, but she wants to do it now.  The only problem is that Rachel is the one that could lose everything.  Her job is to be Jake's probation officer.  Even more than that, her job is to protect her son, the son Jake does not know that he has.<br />I love the bad boy comes home plot.  Jake tries so hard to be the big, proud, strong man.  Inside Jake is lonely, scared, and in a lot of pain.  There were moments that I wanted to smack Rachel for keeping Jake's son a secret. At times, it seemed Rachel was looking out for herself and not her son.  Rachel's behavior is nothing compare to that of the town's people.  People can be so cruel at times.  Linda Markowiak has a wonderful ability to get to the heart of what people are feeling.  Even my own feelings that Rachel had selfish motives for keeping her son's parentage a secret were expressed through some of the characters.  This was a very well written story that keeps the reader interested and entertained.	2001-09-05
US	52437017	R12JFMGRK3GLQM	082176439X	957528258	Seducing Tony (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Eden Redford had one goal in mind when she arrived in Manhattan.  She wanted revenge on the man that she held responsible for causing her father to have a fatal heart attack.  As far as Eden was concerned it was a heart for a heart.  She wanted to make Tony Ross fall in love with her, now, while he is vulnerable and than she would walk away.<br />Tony Ross's life is a mess.  His reputation as a well-respected Pulitzer prize winning journalist is ruined.  His Pulitzer was taken back and he was fired from his job by the man that he loved like a father, Mike Redford.    Everyone thought that Tony's story, that he won the Pulitzer for was a fake, but Tony knew the truth.  Tony has one bright spot in his miserable life and that is the new woman who seems to have appeared right when he needed her the most.  Of course, Tony has no idea that Dyan is Eden.<br />The one thing that Eden did not count on when plotting her revenge is falling for the man she was, at one time, sure was responsible for her father's death.  This story is filled with tragedy, guilt, and a love that has the strength to overcome almost anything.  This was an emotionally well written story.  The secondary characters become just as important as the primary ones.  In the end, it seems like it is impossible to have a happy ending for these characters, but yet another tragedy may force them together once again.	2001-09-05
US	52437017	RVV3O77XLNU0P	0373194498	553617584	Her Sister's Child (Romance, 1449)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Meg Jonas, her dad, and step-mom were devestated to learn that Meg's sister Cherie died in a plan crash. Cherie was not close to her family, but it still hurt them deeply. They soon learn that Cherie has a daughter, Amy. The Jonas family immediately files for custody of the little girl. The only thing that they did not count on was Amy's father. Adam Callahan has no intention of giving up his precious little girl. At the same time, Adam needs the Jonas family to help her live. Amy is one sick little girl and her health is more important than any custody battle. But, don't expect Adam to let his guard down, because when it comes to his daughter, he trusts no one.<BR>This is an emotional story centered around one sick little girl. Although the reader can sympathize with the Jonas family, it seems only natural to stand behind the father. Adam is a devoted parent that has been through heck and back since the moment he found Cherie pregnant. By the end of the story you really want to see Adam have a happy ending. I now find myself interested in the other Callahan brothers.	2001-08-31
US	52437017	RXFZPOWJXWWO1	0373709587	743749234	This Child of Mine (Harlequin Superromance No. 958)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Kitt Stevens has a troubled past that she has long since buried, or so she thought.  Kitt is very passionate about her work and when Mark Masters charges in with the potential to harm all of that work, she decides to fight back.  Kitt never counted on the passion that ignites every time that she is around Mark.  Mark also makes her think of her past, which is something Kitt has tried so hard to forget.  Kitt soon finds herself deeply entwined with Mark's life.  Only that involves even more than she is prepared for.  Tanni, Mark's adorable little girl that he had to pay the birth mother to have, is the light of his life.  After discovering Tanni and all that Mark went through to get her, how can she possibly tell him her secret?  How can she tell him that when he was fighting to keep his baby, that she gave hers away?<br />This is an emotionally charged story.  At first, I found myself thinking that Mark was a, well, dork.  He seemed out of his league around Kitt.  Later, when discovering all that he has been through and what a good father he is, it is hard not to like him.  Kitt, on the other hand, seemed stuck-up and snobbish.  She seemed to blame everyone else for all the negative things in her life.  Mark puts his faith and trust in her and she throws him away, not once, but twice.  I was hoping that things would work out for Tanni and Mark.  And I did feel sorry for Kitt and the fact that she was suffering, but at times I felt she pushed Mark too far.  By the end of the story, you are just hoping that Mark does not get the door slammed in his face again.  It was still a good story, even if Kitt's 'suffering' lasted a little too long and was a little too drawn out.	2001-08-31
US	52437017	R222NLTUVDONP6	037320180X	692553975	Bride By Surprise (By Request 3'S)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	Three stories of women who find love when they least expect it by Muriel Jensen.<BR><br />1. The Unexpected Groom-Charlotte Morreaux was having a bad day. Her dads partners daughter (Kendra) is marrying Charlottes ex-fiancee (Trey). To make matters worse Kendra has asked Charlotte to help save her wedding. Charlotte owns a bridal shop, but wants nothing to do with this wedding. Charlotte's back is against the wall because the press will be there and her business does not need any negative publicity. On her way to the wedding shower Charlotte has an accident caused by none other than Derek Cabot, her nemesis. Once at the shower, Kendra's mother tries humiliate Charlotte by asking about her personal life. Remember, Kendra is marrying the man that left Charlotte and the alter, literally. Charlotte's stepmother Caroline tries to 'help' by implying that Charlotte told her family the big news-that she was married. Right when it looks like Caroline's lie will be exposed to all of the shower guests, including the press, Derek jumps in as the 'role' of her husband. Now that Charlotte and Derek have announced to all that they are 'married' it seems they have no choice, but to keep pretending for a while. The only problem comes when they can no longer tell the difference between real life and the fictional one that they have created. This was a short delightful story. It was a little slow and laid back. The whole story took place over a span of about a week. I did not feel like I really got to know the characters, but it was still a good read. <br />2. Make-Believe Mom-Barbara Ryan was completely embarrassed when her boss, ad executive John Cheney walked into his bathroom to find her half-naked. He seemed to understand and accept her excuse when she told him that his secretary/her friend let her into his office and private bathroom so that she could try on a dress. Of course, neither of them expected the company's biggest potential client to walk in the door, the church cooperative made up of, yes, clergymen. Caught in a compromising and potentially disastrous position-John introduces Barbara to the clergy as his wife. If that's not bad enough, to land the account that could give the ad company national publicity, the clergy want John and Barbara to pose as the American Family. So, Barbara now has a make-believe husband and children, but her feelings for John are anything but make-believe. This was an interesting twist to a romance story. It was fun to watch as the lie builds so does John and Barbara's love for one another and the family that they have created. But, what happens if that lie is exposed? John and Barbara cannot really expect to get away with telling a lie to clergy, can they? Soon John and Barbara have to ask themselves if the family they have created is really a lie. John's twin children also add fun and excitement to the story. <br />3. Middle of the Rainbow-Regina Raleigh is always in trouble. This time, however, it is more than she can handle. A black car has been stalking her. Regina is sure that it has something to do with her former business partner that ran off with all of the company's property, some of the clients property, and all the money. Regina's rich father, who is about to run for Congress and does not need a scandalous daughter, suggests to her that she marry Patrick Gallagher and move to Oregon. Regina immediately says yes, she is sure that an ex-military man could protect her from the men stalking her. Patrick Gallagher only wanted to ask Regina's father for a loan to save his families hotel. Patrick's first response to marrying a stranger was no, but gave in when Regina suggested they divorce in a year. So, they get married and head for Oregon. The trip turns into an adventure that neither of them will ever forget. This was a story of adventure and romance. Patrick is honest from the beginning of the story, but Gina wasn't. I thought that Patrick swallowed everything that was thrown at him a little tooeasy, but I guess the money for the hotel made it worth it to him. In the end, they both get more than they bargain for.	2001-08-30
US	52437017	R154A71CA0FXJX	0373164645	446386337	Middle Of The Rainbow	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Regina Raleigh is always in trouble. This time, however, it is more than she can handle. A black car has been stalking her. Regina is sure that it has something to do with her former business partner that ran off with all of the company's property, some of the clients property, and all the money. Regina's rich father, who is about to run for Congress and does not need a scandalous daughter, suggests to her that she marry Patrick Gallagher and move to Oregon. Regina immediately says yes, she is sure that an ex-military man could protect her from the men stalking her. Patrick Gallagher only wanted to ask Regina's father for a loan to save his families hotel. Patrick's first response to marrying a stranger was no, but gave in when Regina suggested they divorce in a year. So, they get married and head for Oregon. The trip turns into an adventure that neither of them will ever forget. This was a story of adventure and romance. Patrick is honest from the beginning of the story, but Gina wasn't. I thought that Patrick swallowed everything that was thrown at him a little too easy, but I guess the money for the hotel made it worth it to him. In the end, they both get more than they bargain for.	2001-08-30
US	52437017	R1ZO9VGJ7GWNR6	0373165072	669886410	Unexpected Groom	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Charlotte Morreaux was having a bad day. Her dads partners daughter (Kendra) is marrying Charlottes ex-fiancee (Trey). To make matters worse Kendra has asked Charlotte to help save her wedding. Charlotte owns a bridal shop, but wants nothing to do with this wedding. Charlotte's back is against the wall because the press will be there and her business does not need any negative publicity. On her way to the wedding shower Charlotte has an accident caused by none other than Derek Cabot, her nemesis. Once at the shower, Kendra's mother tries humiliate Charlotte by asking about her personal life. Remember, Kendra is marrying the man that left Charlotte and the alter, literally. Charlotte's stepmother Caroline tries to `help' by implying that Charlotte told her family the big news-that she was married. Right when it looks like Caroline's lie will be exposed to all of the shower guests, including the press, Derek jumps in as the `role' of her husband. Now that Charlotte and Derek have announced to all that they are `married' it seems they have no choice, but to keep pretending for a while. The only problem comes when they can no longer tell the difference between real life and the fictional one that they have created. This was a short delightful story. It was a little slow and laid back. The whole story took place over a span of about a week. I did not feel like I really got to know the characters, but it was still a good read.	2001-08-29
US	52437017	R38BZZGXVL2NRN	037316534X	569151188	Make Believe Mom	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Barbara Ryan was completely embarrassed when her boss, ad executive John Cheney walked into his bathroom to find her half-naked. He seemed to understand and accept her excuse when she told him that his secretary/her friend let her into his office and private bathroom so that she could try on a dress. Of course, neither of them expected the company's biggest potential client to walk in the door, the church cooperative made up of, yes, clergymen. Caught in a compromising and potentially disastrous position-John introduces Barbara to the clergy as his wife. If that's not bad enough, to land the account that could give the ad company national publicity, the clergy want John and Barbara to pose as the American Family. So, Barbara now has a make-believe husband and children, but her feelings for John are anything but make-believe. This was an interesting twist to a romance story. It was fun to watch as the lie builds so does John and Barbara's love for one another and the family that they have created. But, what happens if that lie is exposed? John and Barbara cannot really expect to get away with telling a lie to clergy, can they? Soon John and Barbara have to ask themselves if the family they have created is really a lie. John's twin children also add fun and excitement to the story.	2001-08-29
US	52437017	R1T2G3TCBHCBFU	0373195265	141263933	Blind-Date Bride (Silhouette Romance, No 1526)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	This story is a follow-up to `The Billionaire is Back'.  In the previous book Helena Austin's brothers think that it is time that she settle down and marry, so they send plenty of potential husbands her way.  Now that Helena is married the brothers turn to their other sister Helena's twin Lilah.  Lilah runs her own bookstore and has no interest in marrying right now.  She would be if she found a man that loved her for who she was and not because they see her as a quite little wife and mother.  She wants a man on her terms and not one picked by her brothers.  <br />Tyler Westlake is a rich handsome playboy with no intention of finding a wife.  Lilah asks Tyler to pretend to be interested in her to stop her brothers from sending men her way.  In return, Lilah is prepared to help Tyler do some research for a project that he is working on.  Tyler figures Lilah is the best to help him with the research and he has no problem helping her with her problem.  But, soon, Tyler realizes what a bad idea there plan was.  He finds himself wildly attracted to Lilah, but knows that she deserves better.  He hides his feelings and has no idea that Lilah is just as crazy about him.  They both have to be willing to admit their feelings for each other before it is time for Tyler to leave.<br />This was a quick short romance.  I read the previous book so I was interested in what would happen to Helena's twin Lilah.  Both books were quick and fun reads.	2001-08-20
US	52437017	RAHJP25EJFI8Z	0373195206	633780175	Billionaire Is Back	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	Helena Austin has four very over protective big brothers.  Helena loves them, but she has no intention of allowing them to run her life.  When Helena takes the job as housekeeper and cook to the rich and powerful Jackson Castle, her brothers are livid.  Helena stands her ground and ignores the warnings that Jackson collects women as a hobby.  <br />Jackson Castle is only in town for three short weeks.  He has no intention of allowing himself to get close to his beautiful and very pregnant employee Helena.  Jackson finds himself feeling very overprotective of Helena.  He also found himself chasing away all the young men that Helena's brothers were sending her way as prospective grooms.<br />Helena and Jackson are undeniably attracted to one another.  Helena sees a side of Jackson that no one else does.  She slowly starts to understand why Jackson has built all these protective walls around him.  Helena knows that by loving Jackson she could possibly be causing herself more pain than she can handle.  Helena must decide if she wants to take that risk.  <br />This was an enjoyable story of two people who have been hurt in the past and have decided never to try again.  Fate has put them in each others path and now they have a second chance at love and happiness.	2001-08-20
US	52437017	R1MUM3FM1LUSPR	0373763727	241175077	More To Love (Harlequin Desire)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	:(	I must admit that I was not impressed with this book at all.  Most of the time I found myself bored with it.  Molly's recently wed sister asked her to housesit and petsit for a week.  Molly figured she could consider it a miny vacation.  Molly is the type of person with a big heart that most people tend to abuse.  Molly also considers herself a bit over-weight with little self-esteem.<br />Rafe finds out that his brother has gone off and gotten married.  Rafe considers it his responsibility to make sure that his kid brother that he practically raised did not make a big mistake.  But, instead of finding his brother and new sister-in-law, he instead finds Molly.  <br />The weather turns bad and Molly and Rafe are stuck together.  They are completely opposite and yet they can't help but be attracted to each other.  <br />There really was no interesting story to follow.  The characters were a bit boring.  The reader was given a bunch of information on their backgrounds, but that was basically it.  After spending a week together Molly and Rafe must decide if they should chance a future together.  I would not recommend this book to buy or even borrow.  I hate to give this author a bad review because I have read other books of hers that were really good.  She just missed her mark on this one.	2001-08-20
US	52437017	R342FKLT4J51I4	0373762232	637728968	Taming Tall, Dark Brandon (The Bachelor Bet) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Andrea Cunningham has been ordered by her doctor to take two weeks to rest and relax.  Andrea lives in Phoenix and is vice president of an advertisement agency.  Her work is her life, but she needs a break.  Andrea agrees to the two weeks and books a room at Prescott's Hamilton House Hotel.<br />Brandon Hamilton grew up in Prescott by left to work in New York City.  Brandon's work was also his life until he showed all the warning signs of an early heart attack.  Brandon left New York and returned to Prescott to renovate and run Hamilton House.<br />Brandon is immediately drawn to Andrea.  Both never thought about settling down to marriage and babies.  Brandon has his priorities in order once he realizes how deep his feelings are for Andrea.  Andrea, however, has a hard time putting anything other than her career first.<br />After a week, both characters have conversations with themselves about how much they love each other to the point that it gets ridiculous.  Andrea's reasons for denying her love for Brandon are hard to accept considering she suddenly changes her mind after suddenly remembering memories from her childhood.  I hope the next book in the series is better.	2001-08-18
US	52437017	R2P7W94P6JACMD	037307686X	615650668	Happy New Year--Baby! (The Baby Of The Month Club) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Nicole seems to have a knack for trusting the wrong people.  The last being her late husband.  However, he did leave her one good thing-her unborn child (later she learns there will be two babies).  Nicole has sworn off men and vows to never give her trust or love to anyone other than her child.  Nicole never planned to fall for her gorgeous next door neighbor, but Dennis was a man hard to resist.<br />Dennis works for the Justice Department and his current assignment is to investigate Nicole.  He knew that Nicole was the key to exposing a dangerous crime sydicate.  To get the information that he needs he knew that he must get close to Nicole.  Dennis never planned on falling for the pregnant widow, but now that he has he is afraid that the lies that he has told could destroy any chance they have for a future.<br />This was an interesting romance story.  Nicole is a woman who has been lied to most of her life and Dennis is a man whose job required that he lie to her.  When the truth comes out the sparks fly.  I thought that as mad as Nicole was the ending was a bit to  rushed.  Other than that this was a good story.  I am now interested enough to go buy the rest of the books in the series.	2001-08-17
US	52437017	R18UXQ4XGGCL0	0373078145	55217104	Saving Susannah	Books	3	1	2	N	N	:|	This is the third story in The Wedding Ring series by Beverly Bird.   The first book was about Adam Wallace and the pain that he goes through as he is reunited with his kidnaped son after four years.  His son was found in an Amish community, where Adam has decided to live after marrying Mariah.  Adam is upset that four children from the community have been kidnaped, so he calls in his brother Jake, who is a police officer and a fine investigator.  The second book picks up the story from there.  Jake falls in love with Katya and her four children and eventually they marry and decide to live outside the Amish community in Texas.  This book is about Jake and Adam's kid sister Kim, who ran away when they were kids to escape her abusive father.  Kim has never contacted her family since and has built up walls within herself that keeps her at a distance from everyone else.  She does have one weakness, her daughter Susannah.  Suz is now sick and Kim needs the help of her brothers and so she tracks them down to this Amish community.  Kim and Suz stay at the home of Joe Lapp (a character from the previous two books).  Joe is now a widow trying to raise his children and be a good deacon.  He needs help and Kim needs a place to stay, so they help each other.   They never expected to find themselves attracted to one another, but to have a future they must both rid themselves of the ghosts from their pasts.  This was an okay story, although I do not think that I would be as interested if I had not read the other two books.  I do know that there are other Beverly Bird books out there that are a heck of a lot better than this one and I would recommend those.  The Wedding Ring series, in my opinion, is not her best work.  The stories in all three books could be a bit boring at times.  So, don't rush to buy these books, borrow them if you feel the need to read them.	2001-08-15
US	52437017	R4VB7ZU7OS3DE	0373078021	732562314	Marrying Jake  (The Wedding Ring) (Silhouette  Intimate Moments, No 802) (Harlequin Intimate Moments)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	:|	This is the second book in The Wedding Ring series by Beverly Bird.  The first book was about Adam Wallace and the pain that he goes through as he is reunited with his kidnaped son after four years.  His son was found in an Amish community, where Adam has decided to live after marrying Mariah.  Adam is upset that four children from the community have been kidnaped, so he calls in his brother Jake, who is a police officer and a fine investigator.  This book picks up the story from there.  Jake hates the Amish way of life and their rules and he hates that his brother has decided to marry and live there.  Jake plans on helping to find these children and than getting the heck out of there.  Katya Essler and her four children are staying with Adam and Mariah for the time being.  Katya left her alcoholic abusive husband, but has no way to support herself.  Katya hates depending on the charity of others and decides that helping Jake could be a way to contribute something back.  Jake hates the idea because he finds himself attracted to Katya, but he gives in anyway.  Jake never planned on falling for Katya and what good would it do anyway.  She live within a strict Amish community that he wants no part of.  Katya and Jake may not have a choice.  Their feelings for each other are strong and hard to deny.  But, to have a future with each other, one of them will have to give up the only life they have ever known. This book was better than the first one because Jake stays true to his character.  He hates the Amish rules and way of life and that never changes.  He does, however, find that God and family are an important part of life.  I would not recommend that you run out and buy this book, but it is an okay read, so borrow it if you can.	2001-08-15
US	52437017	RGHLNNWPUYA4G	0373077904	140693998	Loving Mariah (The Wedding Ring) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	:|	I must admit that I was not expecting the kind of story that I got from this book.  I was used to reading the romance murder mystery stories by the author Beverly Bird.  This story, however, is about family and the differences between two different lifestyles.  Adam Wallace has never given up hope that he would one day be reunited with his son, who was kidnaped four years ago by his mother.  Adam just never thought that a new lead would bring him to a very strict Amish community.  Mariah Fisher seen the picture of Bo, Adam's son, on the back of a milk carton.  She was already shunned from the community, so she took the chance and called in with the information on Bo's whereabouts.  The happy reunion that Adam pictured with his son was slowly smashed to pieces when Adam realizes that his son not only has a new name, but a new way if life in this Amish community.  Adam's pain is real and leaps off the pages.  I got to the point where I was angry for Adam and I knew that I could not have reached the same painful decisions that he did.  Of course, Adam had the support and care of a woman who was living her own sort of hell, Mariah.  This was a very touching story, although I had a hard time with Adam's complete change of heart at the end.  Throughout the whole story Adam is clear that he disagrees with a lot of the rules within this Amish community.  He also leaves us feeling that he would never be able to live in the community among their rules and way of life.   However, at the end Adam has a complete change of heart that was hard for me to swallow.  The only thing that really intrigued me about this book was the main theme of a father finding his son after four long painful years and the difficulties that he faces in reestablishing a relationship with him.  I have to admit I was not at all interested in the Amish storyline'.  Almost every negative thing about their way of life is pointed out over and over.  I would not rush out to buy this book, but it is an okayread, so do yourself a favor and borrow it from the library.	2001-08-15
US	52437017	RGOW6PY21FSAH	0373046340	80098223	Captive Of Fate (Silhouette Special Edition # 82)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Alanna McIntire's boss is a well known senator.  The senator has always made his feelings known about Colonel Matt Breckenridge.  Matt is the enemy and the man responsible for the death of the senators son.  Now the senator is sending Alanna on a mission to investigate a black market operation headed up by the Colonel.  Only once Alanna reaches Costa Rica and sees for herself the devestation from the earthquake and the compassion that Matt has for the people, she is torn between her duty to her job and her heart.  Alanna knows that she will probably have to choose between her career and the man she loves, but she is unprepared for the fallout from both.  This is the story of one woman's courage to stand up for what she believes in even if it means that she will lose everything.	2001-08-13
US	52437017	R33KVIPNGEU64H	0373240058	454954632	Morgan's Marriage (Morgan's Mercenaries: Love And Danger) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1005)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	:|	I am only giving this book three stars because I have read Lindsay McKenna's Morgan's Mercenaries series since the beginning. I like the characters, and the beginning books were so good, but they have slacked off since. I am holding out hope that they get better.<br />The one word that I can use to describe this book is Depressing. This beloved couple that we fell in love with in 'Return of a Hero' has been put through the ringer yet again. The horrible things that these characters have had to endure completely overshadows the earlier love story that I remember. I also know that if I had not read the earlier stories I would not have bought this book. Without the earlier stories involving Morgan and his family I do not think that any reader would enjoy this or understand the past of these characters or the company that Morgan put together, Perseus. I have already bought all of the books in this series, so I can only hope that they get better because this one was a huge disappointment.	2001-08-05
US	52437017	R21RSXAUA657TR	037323998X	805903791	Morgan's Rescue (Morgan's Mercenaries: Love and Danger) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 998)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	:|	Okay, if you have been reading the series than you know that Morgan Trayhern and his family were kidnapped and one by one they have all been rescued and now its Morgan's turn.<br />Culver Lachlan is a mercenary that is more than willing to do what it takes to bring Morgan home.  Culver was not the least bit happy, however, to be teamed up again with the one true love of his life, Pilar.  Eight years ago Pilar loved him and than destroyed him when she left without an explanation or a goodbye.<br />Pilar was no more eager to work with Culver again, but she knew that she must in order to help save Morgan's life.  Pilar knew that there was a lot at stake, but it was a risk she had to take.  Pilar and Culver have a deep love for one another that has been shoved under lies and secrets.  If they are ever to have a future they must put all of the truth on the table and survive this mission.<br />I was not impressed with the story of Pilar and Culver.  I realize that coming from South America that Pilar is at more of a disadvantage as a woman.  Pilar's mixed blood also works against her, but to me, that is no excuse for the decision that she made to keep Culver in the dark about the past.  She made a terrible mistake that I have a hard time looking past.  When Culver discovers the truth he dismisses it with the wave of his hand.  Culver accepts what she did, forgives her, and he even takes most of the blame.  Yes, he had some responsibilty, but he let her off way to easy.<br />I was also disgusted that our beloved character, Morgan Trayhern,  was tortured the way that he was.  Morgan and his family have already been through so much.  I was just as disappointed with what happened to Morgan as I was with what happened to his wife, Laura, in McKenna's earlier story-Morgan's Wife.  I must admit that I am dreading reading Morgan's Marriage, the next book in the series.  Hopefully, Morgan and Laura's love can overshadow all of the disgusting things that has happened to them over the past several books.	2001-08-04
US	52437017	R1EJAS7JCKIZE	0373099924	793141556	Morgan's Son (Morgan's Mercenaries: Love And Danger) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 992)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	I enjoyed this series by Lindsay Mckenna for the most part.  I thought that her beginning stories that involved the core of the Trayhern family were the best.  When the author started writing about the mercenaries that worked for Morgan I started to have my doubts.  I was thrilled that she was returning to one of the core members again-Morgan Trayhern and his family.  After reading Morgan's Wife I was highly disappointed, but I never stop reading a series, and I am glad I stuck with this one because I really liked this book revolving around the rescue of Morgan's son Jason.<br />Undercover operative Sabra Jacob's loves Jason as if he were her own son.  This mission is dangerous and highly personal to Sabra.  Sabra's partner has just had a heartattack, so if Sabra is going to do this she needs a new partner.  Craig Talbot has just lost his partner to a fatal auto accident.  Craig is brought in and told about the mission, although at first he refuses.  Craig's one condition to working at Perseus is that he never takes high risk missions.  Craig is talked into it reluctantly.  Sabra and Craig are to pose as a married couple in order to rescue Jason.  Sabra soon learns of the tragedy that haunts Craig from his past.  Your heart really bleeds for all that he has been through.  Sabra and Craig are drawn to each other, but they never forget that Jason is their number one priority, and the very real threat of death at trying to rescue him.<br />I believe I was able to enjoy the story of Craig and Sabra because although the rescue of Jason was the goal, his story did not overshadow theirs, unlike what happened in the previous story about Morgan's wife Laura.  Craig is a character that is hard to resist.  Sabra's compassion is to be admired.  Hopefully, Lindsay Mckenna's next story of Morgan's Rescue is as good as this one.	2001-08-04
US	52437017	R1M07NKBIBDXNL	037309986X	796424108	Morgan's Wife (Morgan's Mercenaries: Love and Danger, Book 1) (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 986)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	:|	I really enjoyed the first books in this highly charged series about Rachel and Chase Trayhern and their three children-Morgan, Noah, and Alyssa.  All of the preceding books since than include Morgan and his mercenaries.  In this book, however, Lindsay Mckenna brings back Morgan's whole family which I though would be exciting.  After everything these beloved characters have been through it was troubling to discover that Lindsay Mckenna planned  her next set of books around the kidnapping of Morgan, his wife Laura, and their son Jason.<br />Jim Woodward, who was in Morgan's previous story-Return of a Hero, returns in this book.  If you recall in the earlier story he was friends with Laura, but would have liked for there to have been more between them.  Jim is disgusted to learn that Laura has been kidnaped and uses his skills at the Pentagon to figure out where she is being hidden.  Jim storms into Perseus with the information and is immediately assigned a partner to go rescue Laura.  <br />Pepper Sinclair, who first appeared in Wolf Harding's story-Heart of a Wolf, returns to this book.  Pepper is a smoke jumper and has enough experience to be a part of this mission.  Jim hates the idea of taking Pepper, a woman, along on the mission.  Daggers fly between Pepper and Jim, along with a healthy dose of romantic sparks.  There are so many obstacles in their way, but most of them they create themselves.  It got a bit tiring that Pepper seemed obsessed with her thinking that Jim was in love with Laura when he had obvious feelings towards Pepper.<br />I had a hard time getting into the story of Pepper and Jim.  I was extremely disappointed with the authors decision to have such monsterious acts commited against Laura.  Those violent acts seemed to overshadow not only the story of Pepper and Jim, but of the earlier love story of Morgan and Laura in Return of a Hero.  Laura's devestating story seemed to overshadow everything else.  If I had not read the previous stories I might have liked this story more and enjoyed the romantic pairing of Jim and Pepper.  I am almost not looking forward to reading the next couple of books about Morgan and his son.  Hopefully, I will not be left with such bitter disappointment after reading their stories.	2001-08-03
US	52437017	R278M7YQ77Y4MJ	0373098189	7923390	Heart Of The Wolf (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	:)	Heart of the Wolf--Morgan Trayhern the famous character from the popular series by Lindsay McKenna has formed his own company called Perseus.  The main goal of this company is to make the world a better place.  Morgan has plenty of resources at his disposal and his company is made up of only the best.  Wolf Harding is one of those men and this is his story.  Wolf has returned beaten and battered from his last mission and right now he wants away from it all.  Wolf needs away from people, to be able to deal with what happened in South America, and to be able to find peace again.  Wolf asks his boss, Morgan, to use his resources to help him get away.  Wolf is sent to Montana as a forest ranger.  His first day on the job takes him to Sara Thatcher.  Sara is a woman in need of protection, and being the man that he is, Wolf will do his best or die trying.  There are men that want Sara's land and will do anything to get it.  Sara is a bit naive at times and I believe she makes things worse on both her and Wolf.  Both Sara and Wolf need to heal from their pasts and hopefully they can help each other.  This is a great story of a man who has been through the worst kind of hell, but is now trying to live and love again.	2001-08-02
US	52437017	R25QZ93T8FCM8T	0373201850	566504919	Morgan'S Mercenaries: In The Beginning  Heart of the Wolf. The Rogue, Commando	Books	4	15	16	N	N	:)	Morgan's Mercenaries are a group of men that are employed by the famous Morgan Trayhern.  Morgan is the Hero from the previous books by Lindsay Mckenna.  The three stories in this book are about men that work for Morgan's company Perseus.  This is a company out to make the world a better place.  <br />Heart of the Wolf--Morgan Trayhern the famous character from the popular series by Lindsay McKenna has formed his own company called Perseus.  The main goal of this company is to make the world a better place.  Morgan has plenty of resources at his disposal and his company is made up of only the best.  Wolf Harding is one of those men and this is his story.  Wolf has returned beaten and battered from his last mission and right now he wants away from it all.  Wolf needs away from people, to be able to deal with what happened in South America, and to be able to find peace again.  Wolf asks his boss, Morgan, to use his resources to help him get away.  Wolf is sent to Montana as a forest ranger.  His first day on the job takes him to Sara Thatcher.  Sara is a woman in need of protection, and being the man that he is, Wolf will do his best or die trying.  There are men that want Sara's land and will do anything to get it.  Sara is a bit naive at times and I believe she makes things worse on both her and Wolf.  Both Sara and Wolf need to heal from their pasts and hopefully they can help each other.  This is a great story of a man who has been through the worst kind of hell, but is now trying to live and love again.<br />The Rogue--Morgan Trayhern the famous character from the popular series by Lindsay McKenna has formed his own company called Perseus.  The main goal of this company is to make the world a better place.  Morgan has plenty of resources at his disposal and his company is made up of only the best.  Sean Killian is one of those men and this is his story.  Killian is a very close-mouthed individual which makes his next mission perfect for him.  Susannah Anderson isrelated to Morgan and was shot after returning from a visit with him and his wife.  Susannah awakened from a coma after two months and does not remember the accident and is unable to speak.  Susannah's life may still be in danger from the gunman.  Killian usually does not take jobs that involve women, but Morgan orders him to take this case because its personal and Morgan does not trust anyone else.  Killian goes to Susannah, but he is unprepared for the emotions that she stirs in him.  Sometimes it is hard to tell who is helping who-Killian helping Susannah or Susannah helping Killian.  Out of the two of them I would say that Killian is the more wounded one.  This bear of a man has always bottled everything up inside him and Susannah is determined to help bring it all out.  This is a good story of a man whose job has him constantly fighting battles physically and it never ends for him mentally or emotionally until one stubborn determined woman enters his life.      <br />Commando--Morgan Trayhern the famous character from the popular series by Lindsay McKenna has formed his own company called Perseus.  The main goal of this company is to make the world a better place.  Morgan has plenty of resources at his disposal and his company is made up of only the best.  Jake Randolph is one of those men and this is his story.  Jake's next mission is to be a bodyguard for the beautiful Shah Travers.  Shah's father, at first, paid Perseus to kidnap his daughter and bring her home, but he quickly learned that kidnaping is not a part of what Perseus does, so he agrees to having Jake as her bodyguard.  Shah's job is to investigate the destruction of the tropical rain forest in Brazil.  The job has turned dangerous for Shah, but she refuses to back down from the men that are threatening her if she continues to investigate.  Jake has suffered a tremendous personal loss in his past and is surprised at his feelings for Shah.  Shah has suffered at the hands of all of the men in her life.  She has learned to be distrustful and has a hard time accepting Jake's offer of help, but eventually she gives in.  Together Jake and Shah face the danger from the men determined to destroy the rainforest and together they work through the pain in both of their pasts.  This is the story of a man, given a second chance at love and happiness, and his courage to take it.	2001-08-02
US	52437017	R1ML5DWNS5IARS	0373098308	158056613	Commando (Morgan's Mercenaries I) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 830)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	:)	Commando--Morgan Trayhern the famous character from the popular series by Lindsay McKenna has formed his own company called Perseus.  The main goal of this company is to make the world a better place.  Morgan has plenty of resources at his disposal and his company is made up of only the best.  Jake Randolph is one of those men and this is his story.  Jake's next mission is to be a bodyguard for the beautiful Shah Travers.  Shah's father, at first, paid Perseus to kidnap his daughter and bring her home, but he quickly learned that kidnaping is not a part of what Perseus does, so he agrees to having Jake as her bodyguard.  Shah's job is to investigate the destruction of the tropical rain forest in Brazil.  The job has turned dangerous for Shah, but she refuses to back down from the men that are threatening her if she continues to investigate.  Jake has suffered a tremendous personal loss in his past and is surprised at his feelings for Shah.  Shah has suffered at the hands of all of the men in her life.  She has learned to be distrustful and has a hard time accepting Jake's offer of help, but eventually she gives in.  Together Jake and Shah face the danger from the men determined to destroy the rainforest and together they work through the pain in both of their pasts.  This is the story of a man, given a second chance at love and happiness, and his courage to take it.	2001-08-02
US	52437017	RMYBWFJ4WRU5F	037309535X	336402495	No Surrender	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	No Surrender--This is the story of Alyssa Trayhern.  This is the second story in Lindsay Mckenna's famous Morgan's Mercenaries series.  Alyssa is the sister of Morgan Trayhern.  Alyssa has had several strikes against her in her quest to become a pilot in the U.S. Navy.  First of all she is a woman, and second she is the sister of the man that has been labeled as a traitor by his country.  Through all of the name calling and being ignored by her instructors she survives and finally has her chance to be a co-pilot for the Navy.  Alyssa believes that things are finally looking up, that is, until she learns that her mentor is U.S. Navy First Lieutenant Clay Cantrell.  Clay's brother Stephen was one of the men that Alyssa's brother Morgan was said to have deserted and as a result Stephen and the rest of the men under Morgan were killed.  Clay has a grudge, but angrily finds himself attracted to Alyssa.  Alyssa never gives up, she has no intention of surrendering to Clay or anyone else.  Alyssa can only hope that Clay can get past his hate to see the life that they could share.  This is a great story of one very strong woman, who has survived the worst life could throw at her and still come out on top.	2001-08-01
US	52437017	RVRPTWP4N5QA0	0373095414	589209808	Return of a Hero (Silhouette Special Edition, No 541)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	:)	Return of a Hero--This is the story of Morgan Trayhern.  This is the third book in the famous Lindsay McKenna series-Morgan's Mercenaries.  Morgan has been labeled as a traitor by his country.  Morgan was commanding a company of marines in Vietnam when he was ordered to put his men on Hill 164.  All of his men were killed except for Morgan and one other man.  Several men in power knew that they made a mistake and decided to make Morgan the fall guy.  Morgan was not expected to survive his injuries from the battle on Hill 164.  The other man that survived was instructed to give a statement that basically said Morgan turned his back on his men and joined the enemy.  Now seven years later Morgan is back in the U.S. and meets Laura Bennett a writer and researcher for the U.S. military.  Laura wants Morgan to fight to clear his name and get his life back and to fight for their possible future together.  This is a heartbreaking story of one man who was willing to fight for his country and than have is country turn on him.  Morgan has survived so much, but now he wants his life back, his good name, his family, and the love of a woman willing to risk everything to help him.	2001-08-01
US	52437017	R3PJH7IF8TJ2EW	0373201737	206464196	Love and Glory (Silhouette, By Request 3's)(A Question of Honor, No Surrender, Return of a Hero)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	:)	Morgan's Mercenaries--This is where it all begins.  Love and Glory is a great reprint of the three stories that started it all.  The stories of the strong and proud Trayhern siblings Noah, Alyssa, and finally Morgan.<br />A Question of Honor--This is the first book in the now famous series of Lindsay McKennas-Morgan's Mercenaries.  This is the story of Morgan's brother Noah Trayhern.  Noah is a U.S. Coast Guard Lieutenant.  Noah has had to work a lot harder than most for his position and for the respect of others because his brother Morgan has been labeled a traitor by his country.  Noah does not want to offer his home as safe house to Kit, a Narcotics Agent with the Police Department, but Noah knows that to refuse would only give those in power something to use against him.  Noah must also admit that he is attracted to Kit, but they have a job to do, but as the danger increases so does their attraction.  They can only hope that they both survive the danger to be able to have a chance at the future.  This is a great story of one man's will to bring honor to his family and love into his life.<br />No Surrender--This is the story of Alyssa Trayhern.  This is the second story in Lindsay Mckenna's famous Morgan's Mercenaries series.  Alyssa is the sister of Morgan Trayhern.  Alyssa has had several strikes against her in her quest to become a pilot in the U.S. Navy.  First of all she is a woman, and second she is the sister of the man that has been labeled as a traitor by his country.  Through all of the name calling and being ignored by her instructors she survives and finally has her chance to be a co-pilot for the Navy.  Alyssa believes that things are finally looking up, that is, until she learns that her mentor is U.S. Navy First Lieutenant Clay Cantrell.  Clay's brother Stephen was one of the men that Alyssa's brother Morgan was said to have deserted and as a result Stephen and the rest of the men under Morgan were killed.  Clay has a grudge, but angrily finds himself attracted to Alyssa.  Alyssa never gives up, she has no intention of surrendering to Clay or anyone else.  Alyssa can only hope that Clay can get past his hate to see the life that they could share.  This is a great story of one very strong woman, who has survived the worst life could throw at her and still come out on top. <br />Return of a Hero--This is the story of Morgan Trayhern.  This is the third book in the famous Lindsay McKenna series-Morgan's Mercenaries.  Morgan has been labeled as a traitor by his country.  Morgan was commanding a company of marines in Vietnam when he was ordered to put his men on Hill 164.  All of his men were killed except for Morgan and one other man.  Several men in power knew that they made a mistake and decided to make Morgan the fall guy.  Morgan was not expected to survive his injuries from the battle on Hill 164.  The other man that survived was instructed to give a statement that basically said Morgan turned his back on his men and joined the enemy.  Now seven years later Morgan is back in the U.S. and meets Laura Bennett a writer and researcher for the U.S. military.  Laura wants Morgan to fight to clear his name and get his life back and to fight for their possible future together.  This is a heartbreaking story of one man who was willing to fight for his country and than have is country turn on him.  Morgan has survived so much, but now he wants his life back, his good name, his family, and the love of a woman willing to risk everything to help him.	2001-08-01
US	52437017	R2TEO7ZFL2W0A1	0373095295	628124585	A Question Of Honor (Silhouette Special Edition, No 529)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	A Question of Honor--This is the first book in the now famous series of Lindsay McKennas-Morgan's Mercenaries.  This is the story of Morgan's brother Noah Trayhern.  Noah is a U.S. Coast Guard Lieutenant.  Noah has had to work a lot harder than most for his position and for the respect of others because his brother Morgan has been labeled a traitor by his country.  Noah does not want to offer his home as safe house to Kit, a Narcotics Agent with the Police Department, but Noah knows that to refuse would only give those in power something to use against him.  Noah must also admit that he is attracted to Kit, but they have a job to do, but as the danger increases so does their attraction.  They can only hope that they both survive the danger to be able to have a chance at the future.  This is a great story of one man's will to bring honor to his family and love into his life.	2001-08-01
US	52437017	R2H2W619NCLEBZ	0373096496	660067663	Dawn Of Valor (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 649 Love and Glory)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	:)	After reading about Morgan, Noah, and Alyssa I was curious to know more about the parents that raised them.  Chase and Rachel had to be strong individuals to raise such strong, proud, and independent children.  <br />Chase Trayhern was a pilot in Korea in 1950 and strongly believed that women had no place in the war.  Rachel Mackenzie, on the other hand, believed strongly that her talents as a nurse were needed.  Chase is lucky that she is there because he ends up needing her more than once.  Trapped behind enemy lines Chase needed Rachel to help him get them to safety.  Chase has a head injury that makes him weak and dependent on Rachel.  There are explosions of all kinds that surround them both literally and figuratively.  They are both strong willed and the result is clashing tempers and red hot passion.  It is hilarious sometimes to think that they need each other to survive long enough to get out of enemy territory, but first they must survive each other.<br />I loved reading the story of Rachel and Chase.  I thought it was great that Lindsay McKenna was able to tell their story after introducing us to their children in previous books.  I can not wait to read the rest of her books.  Thanks for such a great series.	2001-08-01
US	52437017	R1SFGED2PA5ANY	0373077610	442608291	On the Way to a Wedding... (Silhouette Sensation) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 761)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Lauren Abbot could be seen by others as having ice in her veins.  She has been hurt in the past and has no intention of letting herself get involved with any man ever again.  Lauren throws herself into her work as a top notch journalist.  Only Lauren never planned on meeting a man like Nick.  Nick Strata just happens to be on the same plane as Lauren.  They are, in fact, sitting next to each other when the plane crashes into the water.   Lauren does not believe it when she is told that Nick died while playing hero to the others on the plane.  And it seems that Lauren is right and that Nick is not dead, but he has no intention of letting anyone know that he is alive.  Nick needs Lauren's help to catch a criminal.  Lauren tells herself that she is only agreeing so that she can be the first to break the story.  The attraction between Nick and Lauren is there, but so is the hurt that Lauren has suffered in the past.<br />The sexual tension between Nick and Lauren added with the intrigue and mystery of the danger that surround them makes this a good story.	2001-07-30
US	52437017	R1BYECJ6A0ZR59	0373078927	129526844	Secondhand Dad (Families Are Forever) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Caroline Tate has been searching for her missing son Ethan for three long agonizing years.  No one has seen or heard from her son or the man that kidnapped him, her ex-husband.  The phone call came from out of the blue telling her that she can come get her son.<br />Noah Garrett needs Caroline to stay in town with her son who is now the key witness to the murder of his father.  Noah never expected that he would have to keep her at his house and protect her and her son himself.  Noah has avoided any emotional attachments since the death of his wife and daughter, but Caroline and her son need him, even if he hates the feelings and emotions that they stir in him.<br />For once it was the male character that drew me to this story more than any other character.  Noah has had to deal with more than any one person should have to.  I thought his pain came through loud and clear when Caroline told him his wife and child would not want him to torture himself and he simply stated to Caroline that it was easy enough for her to say, because at least she had her child.  His pain practically leaps off of the pages.  As the reader you really want to see Noah with a happy ending.  <br />The story takes you on an emotional rollercoaster with all of the characters.  My problem was with the ending.  It was flat and wrapped things up to quickly. I believe that after everything these characters went through that they deserved a better written ending.	2001-07-30
US	52437017	R1MXB31RGZEWP5	0373195222	546602258	Officer And A Princess (Royally Wed)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	If you have read all the other books in the series than you know that Princess Isabel is one stubborn, strong-willed, pigheaded individual.  Isabel wants her father back and has decided that it is time that she took matters into her own hands.  Isabel tells her once commanding officer Adam Sinclair that she needs his help.  Isabel wants Adam to pretend to be her husband and try to find the men who are responsible for kidnapping her father, King Michael.  <br />Adam knows he has no choice because if he does not help Isabel he knows she will just go off and do this herself no matter what the danger may be.  Adam knows that this will be one of the toughest assignments he has ever had.  He must pretend to be Isabel's loving husband in public and keep his hands to himself in the privacy of their room.  Adam has to keep reminging himself that he is doing this for his country and his King.<br />The series is concluded with this book.  Although the story is interesting and the ending is what everyone wants to have happen.  There is no real mystery.  If you have read the rest of the series than I am sure that you know who the bad guy is before you ever picked up this book.  The ending was very fitting not just for the country of Edenbourg, but for the Stanbury family.	2001-07-25
US	52437017	R30765J0L6KC8J	0373195168	144389114	Code Name: Prince (Royally Wed)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	:|	It was not the story itself that I did not like, but the characters that I had a problem with.  First we have Ben, who is nephew to the Queen and is practically a twin to Prince Nicholas.  We have never heard of Ben until now, except for briefly mentioning in the last book that he was going to be brought in to  trade places with Nicholas and try to locate the kidnapped King.  Ben is sucessful at trading places with Nicholas and is kidnapped himself.  The kidnappers are sure that they have Prince Nicholas in their clutches.  One of the people attending to Ben is Meagan.  Ben is deeply attracted to the person that as far as he is concerned is involved up to her pretty neck in what happened to the King.  Meagan is one character that I had a real hard time trying to like.  She is constantly telling Ben she is independent and strong and can take care of herself, but her actions tell another story.  She bends easily to her brother (even if it is to protect her daughter), she bends easily to the kidnapped 'Prince Nicholas' and when she does not take the advice and protection of Ben she ends up doing something stupid.  Even to avoid her hurt feelings of falling in love with Ben she is willing to go back to her psycho brother.<br />The story is okay and it falls in with the rest of the series except for a few details that contradict what was said in the other book.  The only real problem was my lack of interest in the female character.  Hopefully, the next book, which is the conclusion to the series will be better.	2001-07-24
US	52437017	R1I5E6N1VR0B9N	0373195044	593580736	The Expectant Princess (Royally Wed) (Silhouette Romance 1504)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	When I discovered that there were more Royally Wed books out there I hesitated to buy them.  The series had fizzled out with every book as far as I was concerned, but Once I start a series I have to finish it, so I bought all of the Royally Wed: The Stanbury Crown books.  I was delighted that the books were actually interesting and they breathed new life into the series.  In this book, Dominique Stanbury returns home for the christening of her niece and because of another little secret that her family knows nothing about.  Only before the christening can take place, several things occur.  King Michaels estranged brother and nephews show up unexpectedly and the family is told King Michael and his driver were in an accident and presumed dead.  <br />Dominique knows that she can not tell everyone that she is pregnant right now.  The family has enough to worry about.  Dominique is afraid that she will bring disgrace and shame to her family by becoming an unwed mother.  The emotional stress takes its toll on Dominique.  Lucky for her that the Kings long time advisor Marcus Kent is there to help Dominique.  <br />Marcus is a rare and incredible man.  The love story between Dominique and Marcus was fun because of all the obstacles that lay in their path.  I just hope that the rest of the books in the series are equal to this one.	2001-07-24
US	52437017	R3TLU0CMLDEEJP	0373195109	863129494	Blacksheep Prince's Bride (Royally Wed) (Silhouette Romance, No 1510)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	Rowena Wilde is supposed to spy on Jake, the nephew of King Michael.  Rowena is working as a nanny to Sammy, Jake's son.  Rowena is actually a lady-in-waiting for Princess Isabel.  Rowena is sure that Jake is not the person responsible for kidnapping the King, but Rowena wants to be positive that she is not letting her attraction for the man cloud her judgement.<br />Jake knows that everyone thinks he is guilty of kidnapping the King.  Jake is also aware that Rowena was probably sent to spy on him, but as long as she takes good care of his son it does not matter.  Only Jake soon needs Rowens as a lot more than a nanny.  Rowena and Jake get married for several reasons, but will they live happily-ever-after when Jake discovers that Rowena has been spying on him.  <br />I liked this book because they characters are attracted to each other and they do not try to hide it.  Also, the characters soon fall in love with each other and instead of them hiding the truth  the author has Rowena and Jake confessing their true feelings.  This was refreshingly different from most romance novels lately were the characters hide their feelings until the very end.	2001-07-24
US	52437017	R2CXQ5JA5XSOAE	0373078188	981402801	Wife, Mother ... Lover? (Intimate Moments No. 818)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Leanne raised her three siblings when there mother died and there father had to work all the time, but then Leanne's father remarried and Rena saw Leanne as a threat.  Rena wanted children, so she basically kicked Leanne out and took over as the role of mother to the three children.  From that point on, Leanne was basically an outsider to her own family.  Her siblings assume that she abandoned them.  Leanne never thought she would be close to her family again.<br />Only her sister reaches out to her and wants her to be her unborn twin boys godmother.  Leanne is thrilled, but before she can reach her sisters bedside the worst happens and her sister dies after the birth of the boys.  Leanne wants to help her sisters husband Mitch, but at the funeral he is hurting and lashes out at Leanne.  Mitch sees Leanne as a cold hearted woman who repeatedly hurt her siblings.  Now Eighteen months later Leanne finds out that Mitch is in trouble and could lose the boys.  Leanne returns to Chicago to try and help.  The problem is that to help Mitch she needs to marry him (in name only of course).  Leanne knows that her family will never understand.  Leanne also knows that she wants her marriage to be more than in name only.<br />This is a very emotionally interesting story.  As the reader, I tried to put myself in Leanne's place and knew that I would struggle with the same emotions that both she and Mitch were struggling with.  Anger, Guilt, and more Guilt appear to take over Leanne and Mitch's lives.  Both of them must come to terms with the past and deal with the present if the want to have a future.  The way this story unfolds is both tragic and inspiring.	2001-07-20
US	52437017	RQ9PKUEMDC1BS	0373709722	773552271	The Commander (The Guardians) (Harlequin Superromance, No. 972)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	This is the second book in Kay David's The Guardian series.  The Commander is the leader of the SWAT team.  She assess the situation, determines solutions, and plans for every possibility.  Lena Mckinney is the commander.  Two years ago she thought she could have it all: the job, the man, and future children.  Only Lena's groom never showed up for the wedding.  Lena was devestated, but she moved on and made her life all about her job.  Now, it is her job to protect the man that broke her heart.  Andres is back and someone wants him dead.  Lena will do her job and protect him, but thats it.  The problem with that is Lena never expected that someone might actually try to kill Andres, but she was wrong.  <br />Lena and Andres still love each other-that is pretty obvious.  Now they are thrown together in a very deadly situation.  Andres sees this as his last chance and getting Lena back.  Only to do that he must tell her the truth about why he stood her up at the wedding and why someone now wants him dead.  Although the truth may be Andres' only hope it also may destroy the life of the woman he loves.  <br />The love story between Lena and Andres is very powerful, but filled with secrets.  The mystery surrounding what happened in the past and what is happening now is just as interesting as the love story.  I found this book even better than the first one and can not wait to start reading the third and final book.	2001-07-11
US	52437017	R2ROWY3E9H5HU7	0373076363	125313605	Innocent Man (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Connor MacCormac left Pine Butte twelve years ago and never had any intention of returning, but a mysterious note leads him back. Connor gets only a glimpse of Pine Butte before he is almost killed.  Thank God the towns sheriff finds him and seeks out the help of the towns only medical help a nurse practitioner.  Sarah Wesley has hated Connor for over twelve years, but she has taken an oath to save lives, so she does everything she can to help Connor.  Only once Connor awakes Sarah finds herself more than helping him, she finds herself loving him.  Connor is driven by the need to find justice.  There are so many things past and present that stand in the way of a potential future for Sarah and Connor.<br />This was an interesting story about love. Several things are happening in the town both past and present that push Sarah and Connor together and could ultimately tear them apart.  Only true love could survive what these two go through.	2001-07-09
US	52437017	R3IMSG14N1PREF	0373194935	731739637	Mesmerizing Mr Carlyle (An Older Man)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	:)	Reece is asked by one his closest friends to check on the man's daughter.  Reece agrees.  However, once meeting Amber, Reece has a hard time remembering that she is his friends daughter and that he is fourteen years older than her.  Amber, on the other hand, has no problem with the age difference and finds herself attracted to Reece.  Reece and Amber develop a very deep friendship that turns into a lot more.  But, What happens when Ambers father finds out that the friend he sent to check on is little girl has fallen in love with her?  What happens when Amber finds out that Reece lied to her?  He never told her that he was there to check up on her at her fathers request.  This love story is not just about the difference in age, but about the problems that rise from both of their families.  It is interesting to read about all the different angles of problems that are involved.  True love, however, always wins out in the end. (At least it does in a romance novel)	2001-07-06
US	52437017	R2CCNHQC4Q7FYJ	0373195257	620909587	Baby Season (An Older Man)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	Roxanne never thought that things could get worse.  All she wanted to do was grant her grandmothers wish to find an old friend that she used to sing with.  Now, however, her car is stranded in the desert, she is badly sunburned, her clothes are covered in dirt, the strap on her sandal broke, her cell phone is dead, she is picked up by a man that sees her as a big problem, and the worst of all is that she is no closer to finding her grandmothers friend.  Now what?<br />Jack is a divorced doctor trying to raise his daughter, Ginny.  He was not looking for a woman in his life.  He had one, heck he married one and had a daughter with her, and she ran off with another man leaving him and their daughter.  Something about Roxanne gets under his skin.  He does not want to get hurt again or see his daughter hurt.  So, what is he supposed to do?<br />The loving relationship building between Jack and Roxanne is not the only story going on.  There are secrets that Roxanne is uncovering that could destroy the very family that she is finding herself wanting to be apart of.  <br />This is a short love story about family and the faith that you have to have in yourself and others.	2001-07-05
US	52437017	RJFVZEAJV0FG0	037311723X	767502620	Original Sin (Harlequin Presents, No. 1723)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	:(	Christian has a past that has kept him from his hime town and his family, but now he is back.  He is enchanted by his new secretary, Emily.  Emily and Christian are drawn to each other in every way.  Emily, however, starts to have doubts about the man she is starting fall in love with when everyone in town, including her own friends warn her away from him.  The stories of his past are not pretty, but she can also see Christians side of things.  Her doubts about Christian are more closer to home when the beautiful housekeeper makes no secret of her affair with Christian.  Emily seems to find the man guilty without even asking him about it.<br />The story falls flat.  It was hard to become interested in the characters.  Christian seems hard and closed off.  Emily is fickle and a bit weak.  It was hard to imagine the two of them together.	2001-07-04
US	52437017	RN61VG4S1KIMG	0373271603	605128072	Out of Nowhere (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1090) (Intimate Moments, 1090)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	If you have read this book OUT OF NOWHERE, than you need to read the other two that came before this one.  IT HAD TO BE YOU is the story of Gabriel and Shawnalee and I'LL BE SEEING YOU is the story of Kate and Rafe.  All three of these books are really good.  <br />In this one Rafe and his partner Fox Whittington are trying to solve a murder.  The obvious suspect is the stepsister of the dead guy.  Tara Cole looks even more guilty trying to sneak out of the house where she was hidden while the cops were investigating her stepbrothers murder.  Fox catches her, but does not want to arrest her.  The case appears to easily solved, but Fox has his doubts.  Yes, Tara had a motive, she wanted her mothers Ruby back that her stepbrother had.  The thing was worth millions and it rightfully belonged to her, but her sneaky underhanded stepbrother ended up with it.  But there was something about Tara that Fox was drawn to.  He wanted to solve the murder case and help her get the Ruby back.<br />This story has murder, mayhem, and love.  Those of you that have read the other two books will know what I mean, especially when you discover that this book has the odd chihuahua, Belle, in it. The dog is strange, but she definetly delivers the murder, mayhem, and love.  Just get the book, read it, and I promise you will enjoy it.	2001-07-04
US	52437017	R7B7RY1DPXLU4	0373271573	286155137	Taylor's Temptation (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 10)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	This is the first Suzanne Brockmann book that I have read.  It was okay.  Bobby Taylor's best friend Wes asks him to watch after his sister and keep her safe.  Wes never counted on Bobby doing more than watching over Collen.  Bobby sure as heck never counted on doing anything more than watching over Collen.  Collen, on the other hand, had other plans.  She has always had a crush on Bobby and she sees this as the perfect opportunity to go after him.  Bobby fights it for all he is worth.  He knows that she deserves better, plus he is ten years older than her, not to mention that her brother is his best friend.  Bobby is only human and Collen is very persistent.  They just both better be prepared to deal with the consequences of their actions.<br />For someone so rough and tough, Bobby sure goes weak in the knees when it comes to Wes and Collen.  There was such a big deal about Wes and how he would react, but there was very little story dealing with this.  The same with this Morrison character.  The reader gets the feeling that something big will happen with him, but it doesn't.  Than there is the big trip to another country.  The reader is led to believe something big will happen there, but  we only read a couple of paragraphs.  I thought that a lot of the real story was in what the author didn't say.  The story was good.  I just thought it could have been better.	2001-07-02
US	52437017	R2ZQFCVKEW8K0C	0373079087	638150051	The Mercenary and the New Mom (Follow that Baby) (Silhouette Intimate Moments #908)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the last book in the five book series Follow that Baby.  Thank goodness.  The series was not all that great.  In this book the presumed dead Jack is back.  Most of the book focuses on the events that happened before he died.  The readers get to know how Jack and Sabrina met and fell in love.  At the very end of the book the mystery surrounding Jack's &quot;death&quot; is told and we discover the person behind it.  As much as the family was involved in the search for Sabrina and her baby, not to mention their grief over Jack's death, they had only two paragraphs where they are reunited with Jack.  This was a bit diappointing.  But, there again, the whole series was a bit of a disappointment.	2001-07-02
US	52437017	R1IYLF63Z9VWN4	0373761848	258222316	Sheriff And The Imposter Bride  (Follow That Baby) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	This is the third book out of the five in the Follow that Baby series.  I have not been overly impressed with any of the books in the series this far.  The series is about a missing pregnant woman, Sabrina Jensen.  Sabrina believes, as does everyone else that the baby's father is dead.  Jack Wentworth is dead and his family wants to welcome Sabrina and her baby into the family, but she has disappeared.  In the Sheriff and the Imposter Bride, the Sheriff believes that he has found Sabrina, only its not her, but her twin sister Rachel that he finds.  Riley Hunter, the sheriff, has no idea that the woman is not Sabrina.  Rachel takes Riley on a long roller coaster full of lies.  <br />I found it hard to be interested in any of the characters and the way the plot ties into the series is boring and uninteresting.  I  plan on finishing the series.  I just hope that the remaining books are better.	2001-06-30
US	52437017	R1H6QNI3GVNUSE	0373761635	675959530	Restless Virgin (Texas Brides) (Silhouette Desire , No 1163)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	:)	This is book number 2 of the Texas Brides series.  Samantha McCloud was almost raped when she was a teenager and has never been able to get close to a man since.  Nash Rivers was one sexy man with one head strong daughter.  Nash is attracted to Sam and is willing to be patient and help her overcome her past.  Sam is falling hard and fast for Nash and his daughter.  Sam is not the only one that needs to overcome the past.  Nash has a past of his own and Sam may be just the woman to help him.  The tenderness that Nash shows Sam is so heartwarming.  The love that this man has for his daughter is precious.  There are not to many men like Nash.  Nash and Sam have a lot standing in their way, but it was interesting to see how they dealt with it.  I can not wait to read about the next McCloud sister.	2001-06-28
US	52437017	R29JPSJTY261W8	0373193491	398338197	A Vow A Ring A Baby Swing (Teresa Southwick, Silhouette Romance, No. 1349)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the first of five books involving the Marchetti family.  I have read all five and I must say that this is the best and my personal favorite.  Rosie is planning on getting married without her family, but is suprised to see long time family friend Steve show up.  Rosie has always loved Steve.  She is even more suprised when he tells her that her future groom will not be coming after all.  Rosie is crushed.  Not because she loved the other man, but because she was pregnant.<br />Steve was sent by the family to make sure that Rosie did not get married to the jerk who would eventually hurt her.  Steve was not sent there to marry Rosie himself.  He knew that there would be heck to pay, but Steve did not see that he had a choice.  He always cared for Rosie.  She needs a husband and the baby needs a father.<br />Things really heat up when the family finds out.  This is a short, funny, romantic book.	2001-06-24
US	52437017	RBLQM7E4DDEMP	0373194951	554432366	Secret Ingredient: Love (Valentine Theme)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	This is the fourth book out of the five book series.  Alex Marchetti of the famous Marchetti restraunt family is in no way looking for a woman.  Alex has suffered through the loss of one woman and does not want to go through it again.  Unfortunately he can not help but feel attracted to Fran Carlino.  Fran is helping Alex with a new line of frozen foods.  Once Fran and Alex mix business with pleasure the sparks start to fly.  Very interesting how their story plays out.  This is just a short fun story.  Honestly, I might not have enjoyed it as much if I was not reading the whole series.	2001-06-24
US	52437017	R1A4QH1TI4XG54	0373825846	359065890	Simply Irresistible (The Australians)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	:(	Ross and Vivien sleep together just hours after they meet.  Vivian runs off the next morning, but later discovers she is pregnant.  At least she does the right thing and tells Ross about the baby.  Through the rest of the book Vivien and Ross are basically hateful to each other.  Vivien has a sharp tongue and seems to lash out every chance she gets.  When Ross calls her a shrew I thought that he was right on target. There physical relationship is anything but romantic.  Ross is hurt and his words and actions border on violent.  Happily ever after is just not what I picture with these two.  This could have been a good story, but somewhere along the way it turned into who could be the most hateful despised character.	2001-06-19
US	52437017	R2ZMEL2QUB9A07	0373763700	242365079	Millionaire'S Secret Wish (Million Dollar Men) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	:)	This is the last book in The Million Dollar Men series by Leanne Banks.  From the other two books we know that Dylan and Alisa have known each other almost all of their lives.  They were sweethearts in their teens and lovers in their college years.  Something happened at college that drove them apart, but Dylan has continued to try and win back Alisa's love with no luck.  <br />Now Alisa has amnesia from a serious car accident that she almost died from.  Dylan remains at Alisa's side and when she is released from the hospital Dylan takes Alisa to his home to recover.  Dylan knows that Alisa will regain her memory and hate him again, but for now he vows to remain her friend and help her.  The only problem is Alisa feels very attracted to Dylan, but he does not want to take advantage of her.  He knows that not only will she hate him more when she regains her memory, but it will be harder for him to go on without her if he makes love to her.  Dylan is no Boy Scout and can only takes so much of Alisa and her persistent ways.  But when Alisa regains her memory--watch out!<br />I liked this story.  The only problem I had is the 'situation' that occured at college EIGHT years earlier that Alisa is determined to use to keep Dylan out of her life and heart.  Dylan is a great guy and I though he deserved another chance to show her the man that he is now.	2001-06-18
US	52437017	R3VSAL1CN5LNE	0373484291	199985517	The Texas Brand: The Homecoming	Books	5	31	31	N	N	:)	Another GREAT Texas Brand book!  If you have been reading the series than you know that Grant and Sara's father was a bigomist.  He was married to two different women at the same time.  He had two kids with one woman and five kids with the other.   We learn in this book that he also had a long time affair with yet another woman, and this woman gave birth to a son-Luke Brand. <br />Luke has been isolated his whole life, but after a good friend dies he realizes that he wants more than his solitary life, so he heads to Texas to meet his half siblings and cousins.  The Brands are thrilled to have Luke among there family and soon he decides to stay in Texas.  Luke is remodeling the house that he rents and soon he will buy it at auction.  Luke's plans are threatened when Jasmine and her son Baxtor show up claiming the house to be theirs.<br />Luke soon develops feelings for both Jasmine and her son.  Luke knows that they are in serious trouble and he wants to help.  Jasmine does not want to involve Luke or the rest of the Brands into her messy troubles (she obviously knows nothing about the Brand family).  The decision may be taken out of Jasmines hands when she finds herself in over her head.  <br />This is a great addition to the Texas Brand series.  I love Luke, Jasmine, and Baxter.  It was also nice to read about the rest of the Brand family again.    This book has everything-suspense, romance, and family.  And just when you think that the trouble has ended it starts all over again.  I read this from cover to cover before putting it down.  Thank You Maggie Shayne for another great Brand book.	2001-06-18
US	52437017	R3L1ZKR7UR4J3F	0373036469	577013160	Wedding At Waverley Creek (Outback Brides)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	If you read the first book in this series 'Baby at Bushman's Creek' than you know about Alice.  Alice was born to Pippa who died shortly after giving birth and on her death bed she made her sister Claire promise to take Alice to her father Jack who lives in the Outback.  So, Jack is now a full-time father and he wants to leave his brothers place and buy a new place and start over, but he needs a nanny/housekeeper for Alice.<br />Ellie has always loved Jack and has even spent the last three years away from the outback hoping that her feelings would go away.  Jack has always seen Ellie as the kid sister that he never had.  Ellie returns to the Outback only to learn about Alice.  Ellie is devestated to learn that Jack will always love Pippa and that she will never have a place in his heart.  But, she thought that if she were to marry Jack for Alice's sake than he would never have to know about her true feelings and she could at least settle for being near Jack and living in the Outback everyday.<br />Being second best is never good enough.  Ellie feels Pippa's ghost all the time.  Jack and Ellie have always been friends, but Ellie wants more and without it she has to decide if she is willing to settle or walk away with nothing.  Ellie is between a rock and a hard place and I would hate to be in her shoes.  <br />I liked the story, but sometimes I just wanted to scream at the characters to be honest with one another.  Honesty would have saved Ellie and Jack a lot of heartache.	2001-06-13
US	52437017	RTYVQBGMUII4X	0373763581	746348308	Her Ardent Sheikh (Texas Cattleman's Club: Lone Star Jewels) (Silhouette Desire, No 1358)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	:)	If you have been reading the Texas Cattleman's Club-Lone Star Jewels series than you know that Sheikh Ben Rassad promised to protect Jamie Morris.  Jamie is in danger from the man that stole the jewels belonging to the town of Royal.  This person will do anything, even kill to get the jewels back, and for some reason he is under the assumption that Jamie has the jewels.  Ben is trying to be the honorable man that he is and protect Jamie while he keeps his feelings for her to himself.  This, however, proves to be most difficult since Jamie sets out to seduce Ben.  The problem comes when after Jamie gets her way and Ben realizes he took her innocence that he proposes marriage.  Ben and Jamie are from different cultures and Ben feels that marriage is the honorable thing to do, plus she may be carrying his heir.  Jamie, of course, wants him to love her and not see her as an obligation.  So, after getting Ben into bed like she wanted she high tails it out of there and refuses to give Ben a chance.  She  insists in her head that Ben must tell her that he loves her before she will marry him (yet she never told him that she loved him).  This was a good story even if I did not care much for Jamie.  Of course, I do not think that I would have cared for this book as much if I had not already read the other books in the series.	2001-06-05
US	52437017	R2LFGZEW1T7S3K	0373121822	8834745	The Arabian Mistress	Books	3	4	4	N	N	:|	Faye had no one else to turn to when her brother ended up in prison, except to the towns Prince, a man that she had last seen on their wedding day a year ago.  Prince Tariq knew that Faye would turn up sooner or later to beg him to help her brother.  Tariq saw this as a chance to get revenge on the woman who set him up so that she and her family could blackmail him, or that is what he thought she did.  Tariq agrees to let her brother go if she remains his mistress.  Faye is disgusted at the suggestion, but she does it because she knows it is the only way to get her brother free.  Tariq and Faye learn alot about each other and the truth of the past slowly trickles out.  The question is whether or not they will stay together once all the cards are on the table.<br />I only gave this three stars for one reason, the character of Faye.  She is one of the weakest females that I have ever had the displeasure of reading about.  She seems to have no pride and no self esteem.  Granted, she felt guilty for what her step father did to Tariq, but she still could have shown a little bit of backbone.  Other than that the story was okay, although it could have been better.	2001-06-05
US	52437017	R2BPRMQYQNTMMU	037382582X	789802654	Wildcat Wife (The Australians)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Saffron Shaw has worked very hard to become the very successful designer that she is.  Saffron now has more work than she can handle, so when she got a nicely worded letter for a commision for one Fraser Ross, Saffron turned it down.  Later she runs into Fraser at one of her clients parties and is rather rude to him in front of lots of people and potential clients.  Later Saffron realizes that she not only made herself look bad, but that Fraser is one powerful and wealthy man with a lot of influence.  Saffron is furious when Fraser turns up at her business threatening to use that influence to ruin her professionally if she does not reconsider and decorate his house.  Saffron really does not have a choice so she agrees, but she has no plans to make it easy on Fraser.  They have a real love hate relationship going.  The question is what do they do about it?<br />Although Fraser uses high handed tactics to get what he wants from Saffron, it was hard to feel sorry for the woman.  ...than continues through out the story to act like a child.  I found it hilarious the way Fraser handled Saffron.  In the end, for them to get what the want, they both have to swallow their pride.  Enjoyable story!	2001-06-01
US	52437017	R1H3PO53H9S3A4	0373825781	802109782	Male for Christmas	Books	2	1	3	N	N	:(	Tayla is a thirty five year old widow with a sixteen year old daughter and a twenty one year old niece that she practically raised and loves as a daughter.  Her niece Rachel wants the family to meet her 'boyfriend' and so enters Rick.  I had a feeling that the relationship was not right considering Rachel first told people his name was Mac.  Even as odd as that was I still did not think that it was appropriate the way Tayla was acting with Rick.  For heaven sakes, as far as she was concerned this was her nieces boyfriend even though he did seem to old for Rachel.  <br />Rick and Tayla were obviously attracted to one another though.  And I was glad when the truth was finally tossed out about the real 'relationship' between Rachel and Rick.  I found Tayla a bit stuffy and boring.  Yes, Rick was about seven years younger than her, but so what.  Sometimes, I had to wonder what Rick saw in Tayla.  I think what made this book interesting was Tayla's daughter Carey.  Carey was an intelligent and witty young woman.  Her blunt conversations with everyone in her life especially Tayla and Rick was delightful and refreshing.  It was an okay story even if I never could get excited about the charcters in it.	2001-05-30
US	52437017	RH84CI18YHOTK	0373825765	695472767	Beguiled And Bedazzled (The Australians)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	:(	Colleen Ferrar has several pieces of rare wood that belonged to her father who always wanted to make something wonderful out of them, but he knew that he did not have the talent to do them justice.  His birthday was coming up and Colleen wanted to surprise him by having the famous artist Devon Burns create something wonderful out of the wood for her father.<br />Devon is a odd character who usually hates doing pieces for others.  He finally agrees because he wants to work with the wood and because he wants Colleen to pose nude for him for another piece that he is working on.  Colleen agrees and it is more or less a slow seduction from there.<br />This was an odd story.  Colleen and Devon both name their answering machines and let them have conversations with each other (no I am not kidding).  They get dressed up to got out to eat and to the theater, only they end up eating at an ice cream parlor in their fancy evening clothes.  And we never do find out what Devon creates with the wood that was the whole purpose of them coming together.  Very strange story!  I am not even sure what the underlying point of it was, so giving a review that makes sense from a story that made no sense is pretty difficult.	2001-05-30
US	52437017	R8CFH7MZAC12E	0373241895	74161051	Surprise Baby (That'S My Baby!) (Special Edition)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	:(	Maxwell Hamilton lost his wife when she died in childbirth and he swore to never love anyone like he did her again.  Maxwell owns his own company and knows how important it is to socialize, but he is tired of everyone trying to set him up.  Max offers Jane Elliot a practical marriage.  He spells out in detail what he is offering and that it is not love or children.  Jane accepts this 100%.  Only on their wedding night they make love and the result is a baby.  The morning after Max regrets making love to Jane because of the feelings that she stirs in him.  Jane is confused by his sudden withdrawl from her, but she is okay to go on with the marriage until she finds out she is pregnant.  While Max is on a business trip she sneaks off and never has any intention of looking back or telling Max about the baby.  <br />This is where I have a big problem with the story.  Althought the idea of a 'practical marriage' sounded crazy--both Jane and Max agreed.  The both made love that night and created a baby.  Yes, Max said he did not want children, but that does not give Jane the right to run off and not tell him that she is pregnant.  I am probably in the minority, but I hate any and all stories that involve a woman not telling a man that she is pregnant.  To me, it is selfish and I found myself getting angry with Jane and being unable to sympathize with her.  Granted, Max never told Jane why he never wanted kids, but she never asked, and never gave him a chance to explain.  I felt sorry for Max and the child that was going to be deprived of a father if Max did not 'accidentally' discover that Jane was pregnant.  My strong opinion colored my view of the story and I was unable to feel anything but annoyed at Jane.   <br />Max is not perfect, but he at least tries to make his marriage work.  A person can only take so much pain and rejection and I believe Jane pushes hers to the limit, but you read and decide for yourself.  A person that does not share my strong opinions about men having the right to know thay are going to be fathers might enjoy this book, but if you share my opinions be prepared to not like this story or how it plays out.<br />I made myself read this book because I read the next book about Emma in The Major and the Librarian by Nikki Benjamin.  I must say it is a much better story.	2001-05-28
US	52437017	R348H9F5KN878X	0373077297	571022977	Lady And Alex Payton (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Alex Payton played a major part in Nikki Benjamin's story The Wedding Venture.  Now he has his own story in The Lady and Alex Payton.  This is an excellent story!  Alex has had a very heartbreaking troubled life and he feels that he is damaged goods and does not deserve the woman that he loves, so six years ago he walked out on her.  Now Alex discovers that she is in trouble and he knows that he is the last person that she would turn to for help, so he takes the advice of his best friend who is also her brother and he kidnaps Kari.  Now alone in his secluded home in Texas he must get her to open up to him.  Kari is in trouble and it could cost her life, but if she trusts Alex it could cost her heart.  This story is filled with romance, mystery, and adventure.  I loved hearing about Devlin and Laura from the Wedding Venture and finding out more about the mysterious Alex Payton.  Nikki Benjamin is a darn fine author and I can not wait to read her next book.	2001-05-24
US	52437017	R2A9ZBHQMAEXY3	0373763476	546910614	American Earl	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Abby Benton is a tweny five year old virgin.  She has always wanted to wait until her wedding night.  Recently her fiancee dumped her before the wedding and now she wonders if she made the right decision to wait until marriage to have sex.  So, when Abby starts working for Lord Matthew Smythe she is ready and willing to toss away her virginity.  Matt is unsure about getting involved with Abby, but she is insistent, so he takes her to his home in Bermuda for 'fun in the sun' and than the real world comes calling and Matt most return to his business.  Abby accepted the rules before they got romantically involved, but now that they have returned she wants all or nothing.  Matt has problems with love and marriage due to his own emotional past, but he does not want to end things with Abby.  Abby leaves no room to compromise, so Matt must decide what he wants.<br />This was an okay story.  I did not get any real thrill from the plot or characters.  I have read the other stories by Kathryn Jensen involving Matt's brothers and based on that I was disappointed with the 'family reunion' that took place in this story.  All the brothers had strong feelings about their father, but it was glossed over and they were one big happy family at the end of this book.  The story just did not ring true to me.	2001-05-23
US	52437017	R22XV0LJJ7AUIV	0373271174	355084937	Very ... Pregnant New Year'S (36 Hours)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	:)	Anne Parker knew she must avoid Brad Irving at all costs.  The Parker's and the Irving's have hated each other for as long as she could remember.  But when Anne and Brad are stranded together during a snow storm thy could not hide the attraction that they felt towards each other.  After they are rescued, is it posiible to go on ignoring each other?  Maybe, but why should they?  Brad has always thought that the family feud was stupid, but Anne and her family can not seem to let it go.  It seems like it is up to Brad and Anne to put an end to the feud once and for all and hope like heck that it does not make things worse for themselves and their families.<br />This was a good exciting romance story. The characters were faced with making the decision between love and family loyalty. It was interesting to see how they reached their conclusions, even if it meant swallowing their pride.	2001-05-22
US	52437017	RL7YEFG0T0KVT	0373271239	819395199	My Secret Valentine (36 Hours)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	:)	Fiona Lake and ATF special agent Justin Reed spend ten glorious days together six years ago.  Those days were filled with passion and promises of forever.  Only once Justin left he never returned nor did he ever answer any of the phone calls that Fiona left, not even when she left a message telling him that she was going to have his child.  Now six years later Justin is back in town for his aunts funeral.  Fiona tries to avoid Justin, but it is impossible when an explosion in her back yard almost kills her daughter.  Now Justin is staying until the criminal is behind bars and it is becoming obvious to Fiona that Justin has no idea that he has a child.  Now they have to decide to hate each other or work together to mend the past and creat a loving home for their daughter.<br />This was a very interesting story.  The emotional trauma that Justin had to endure as a child has stayed with him and made him the adult that he is today.  He is not only unsure of himself, but he is unsure of his capabilities to love.  His past is heartbreaking and his emotional struggle now is heartwarming.  Fortunately, Justin had the love of a good woman and a daughter that needs him now more than ever.	2001-05-22
US	52437017	R3C1MKYVDO2VSH	0373271492	420785530	Renegade With A Badge	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	This was one terrific book! I am so glad I came across this author and I have every intention of buying all of Claire Kings books. I have never been so excited about passing a book along to get my friends to read it too, but this one is definetly going to get read again and again.  Rafe Camayo was investigating a drug trafficker who also murdered Rafe's brother. Rafe's entire life has been centered around bringing down this man who destroyed his family. What Rafe did not count on was falling in love with the woman that he took 'hostage' to protect not only himself, but her. Olivia Galpas is no marshmallow.  She can hold her own and is in no way a victim. Rafe meets up with his partner, Bobby, and the adventure that these three go on is filled with passion, danger, and lots of laughs.  The sense of humor of these characters was without a doubt the best part of this book. There were so many laugh out loud moments. Even when the characters were in heated arguments with each other they had you laughing. The taco stand and taxi are not something I will forget anytime soon. Moments when the characters should be scared as heck and sitting on the edge of their seats, instead they were making me laugh. The intrigue of this story lasts from cover to cover.  I loved the romance, adventure, excitement, and humor of this book. I guarantee that you will love it too.	2001-05-20
US	52437017	R3GJJQD5V08E9Q	0373762992	259775143	Cowboy Meets His Match (Matched In Montana) (Desire, 1299)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	:)	This is the first book in the Matched in Montana series.  Reporter Jacquelyn Rousseu was born with a silver spoon in her mouth, but she was determined to work hard and prove her worth.  The towns highest regarded citizen and matchmaker wanted Jacquelyn to ride horseback through dangerous mountains to write her story with the help of popular rodeo hunk AJ Clayburn.  AJ is only agreeing out of a sense of loyalty, but that does not mean that he is happy about this adventure.  AJ views Jacquelyn as an uptight princess and has no intention of making this trip easy for her.  Unfortunately, weather turns bad and they have several close calls.  The passion ignites between the two of them.  They are either bound to fall madly in love or kill each other before they return home.  This story is fast paced and filled with both adventure and passion.	2001-05-20
US	52437017	R26UICR8PGR08Q	0373036434	253923191	The Bachelor's Bargain (Harlequin Romance, No. 3643)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	When Merren was mugged Jarad helped to get her back on her feet even offered to replace the money that was stolen.  Merren did not want to take the money, but she knew that she did not have a choice.  Merren had every intention of paying Jarad back his money, but he offered her a job instead.<br />For the next year, Merren had to pretend to be Jarad's girlfriend.  Jarad explains that its to keep his mother and sister from parading women in front of him.  Merren agrees to this odd proposal, but she never realized how guilty she would feel for lying to his family.  Merren also never expected to fall in love with Jarad.  Somewhere along the way the line gets crossed between reality and a lie.<br />This was an interesting story, but a bit slow.  Merren stands up to Jarad, who has done nothing but help her, but she lets her family walk all over her.  I had a hard time feeling sorry for Merren when she let her family treat her like crap time and time again.	2001-05-20
US	52437017	R1XNJ4J641TVQW	0373763549	732848242	M.D. Courts His Nurse (Matched In Montana)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	:)	This is the third book in the Matched in Montana series.  Nurse Rebecca O'Reilly swore that she would never get involved with another doctor, ever.  Being hurt by one was enough for her Thank you very much.  Rebecca knew she was safe from falling for her boss Dr. John Saville.  The man was cold, unfeeling, and had an ego the size of Texas as far as she was concerned.<br />Dr. John Saville has never had an easy life and has worked hard to get to where he is today.  John was attracted to his nurse, but her actions and sharp tongue clearly show him that she is not the leas bit interested in him, as a matter of fact, he is sure that she dislikes him for one reason or another.  Only when an emergency hits there small town Rebecca and John are forced to work together for the sake of others.  Rebecca sees John in a new light and even feels herself being drawn to him.  Whether they will have a future is anyone's guess.<br />I liked John for his compassion and professionalism.  Rebecca, on the other hand, was a very judgemental person.  She was quick to offer insults and to never give anyone the benefit of the doubt.  I realize that her insecurities are from the hurt that she suffered in the past, but she still got on my nerves.  If it wasn't for the town matchmaker these two would probably have never had a chance for a happy future.	2001-05-20
US	52437017	R11DUSM3887W2A	0373763689	2616827	Cowboy'S Secret Child	Books	4	7	7	N	N	:)	Rodeo Champion and rancher Jeb Stuart returned from the army only to discover that his ex-wife had given birth to his son three years ago and than gave him away.  Jeb hired a private investigator and discovered that his ex-wife's cousin Amanda had adopted his son.  Jeb had every intention of claiming his son from this woman, but once he came face-to-face with Amanda he knew that he could not take his son from the only mother that he has ever known.<br />Jeb proposes a marriage of convenience for the sake of his child.  Amanda knew that there really was no other choice.  Only a marriage of conveniece turns into a marriage filled with passion.  Both Amanda and Jeb have to battle the demons from there past if they are to have a future, but when a mysterious vistor shows up at there doorstep their perfect family may be shattered.  <br />This was a great story that involved two people with pasts that still haunt the present.  Not to mention the child that they both put above anything else.  This story involves passion and the lengths that parents will go to to put the needs of their child first.	2001-05-20
US	52437017	R2XT5LP7041S4W	0373763654	823892797	Millionaire Boss	Books	5	5	7	N	N	:)	Penny Rawley has always been in love with Eric Thompson, but he never even knew she existed.  Now years later Penny travels across Texas to apply for the job of Eric's secretary.  Eric does not even recognize Penny as the girl he knew in college.  All Eric can see is that he is now stuck with a crybaby mouse for a secretary.  Only the mouse turns into a babe during a business trip to California.  Penny decided it was time for a change and gets a complete makeover.  Now Eric is sitting up and taking notice.  Eric now wanted Penny in his bed, but not in his heart. Penny decides she can only take so much and now Eric has to decide whether it is all or nothing.<br />This is a fun romantic book.  I enjoyed reading about Penny and Eric.  What I liked the most is that even though Eric thought of Penny as a crybaby at first-Penny proved that she was one tough gal.  There were also several laugh out loud moments that involved not only Penny and Eric but Eric's ward Jared and Penny's friend Suzy.  I thought it was hilarious when Suzy got upset that Jared thought she wa a hooker and only offered her twenty bucks.  This is a book you should read and enjoy!	2001-05-19
US	52437017	R2C8I4MIBAONV8	0373079702	236387526	It Had To Be You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Gabriel Marsden is an ex-cop turned author on a quest to find the truth.  Everyone thinks that Gabriel died when his car exploded, but he is very much alive and trying to figure out who murdered his wife.  Gabriel keeps his distance from anyone and everyone until he sees a woman being mugged outside his apartment building.  Gabriel rides to her rescue and hides again before anyone discovers who he is.<br />Shawna was having a really bad day until Gabriel came to her rescue and than her luck changed.  Shawna believes in fate and is determined to find the mysterious man who helped her.  It does not take long for her to spot him and finally gets him to talk to her.  The only problem is that Gabriel and Shawna are spotted together by the people who killed his ex-wife.  Now Shawna and Gabriel are on the run together and in search for the truth.  There attraction to one another is obvious, but whether they have a future depends on their ability to put an end to the past.  <br />This is a fast-paced, entertaining, romantic story.  The dog is a bit weird (you will just have to read it to understand).  I have already read the second book about Shawna's roommate and it is as good as this one, and it even includes the dog.	2001-05-16
US	52437017	R26XUCG5VNVHVT	0373074654	158085885	Without Price (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Katherine Brewster is terrified by the attempted kidnapping of her nephew Danny.  Katherine is watching Danny while her sister is off in another country on a photo assignment.  Unfortunately, the man that tried to kidnap Danny is his father.  The police assign private investigator Sloan Calder to protect Katherine and Danny.  He was to take them to a safe house where they were to pretend to be a family-wife, husband and son.  Danny's criminal father is involved in mob related crimes and considered very dangerous.  Sloan sees this as a chance to protect a woman and child like he was unable to protect his own wife when she was killed.  Sloan and Katy did not count on really falling into their roles as husband and wife, but how could they not.  They are both highly attracted to each other and they have had dealings together in the past.  The electricity between the two is undeniable.  All they have to do is get over the pain of there pasts and share there future.  I loved this story.  It has everything from suspense to romance.  Highly enjoyable and highly recommended!	2001-05-13
US	52437017	R17RVH518VGXVM	0373195001	576856006	Fit For A Sheik (Virgin Bride)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Sheik Tarik Orman needs a wedding consultant to help plan his sisters wedding, so he hires Carolyn Evans.  He gives Carolyn one month to arrange everything.  Carolyn wants to say no, but she realized that this wedding will be in the society pages and will help her make her mark in the industry.  Carolyn is overwhelmed with all the decisions she must make and a bit confused that the bride and groom will have no input in the wedding.  Carolyn must pick out everything from the wedding dress to the rings.  Carolyn and Tarik both share a different philosophy on love.  Carolyn believes in love, honor, and cherish.  Tarik believe is honor and obey.  Tarik and Carolyn spend a great deal of time together, and they are also attracted to one another.  What Carolyn does not know is that Tarik has 'arranged' for his sister to marry a man that she does not love in order to merge the two family companies.  When she finds out, sparks fly.<br />The story was okay, but a bit slow for me.  I was glad that the author had Carolyn as a strong independant woman who could stand up to the Sheik.	2001-05-10
US	52437017	R2JD7EGWXXJU0M	0373076452	83025752	Wedding Venture (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Laura Burke would do anything to keep her little boy safe from his criminal grandfather.  Laura fled from him years ago and prayed everyday that he never finds her or her son.  Unfortunately, life is not always that easy and Laura is spotted by an 'associate' of her father-in-laws.  Laura is not financially able to pick up and run again.  Laura feels the only way to protect her and her son would be to have a shaddy character with connections to the underworld on her side, so she turns to the only person that she knows of Devlin Gray.  The town believes that Devlin is a criminal, but that is exactly what he wants them to believe.  Devlin agrees to help Laura the only way he knows how, and thats to marry her in name only.  Devlin finds himself wanting Laura more than just as a wife on paper, but he knows that first he must tell her who he really is.  Devlin is afraid that the truth may tear them apart forever.  This was a fast paced enjoyable story.	2001-05-10
US	52437017	R2VNYPA5CBTDCG	0373194528	24473050	Professor And The Nanny (An Older Man) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	:|	Thirty-six year old college Professor Ethan Thorpe needs help with his father, so he hires twenty-one year old Brittany Baldwin.  Ethan is instantly attracted to Brittany, but knows that nothing can come of it.  Ethan has experience, has been married, divorced, and is the father of a toddler.  Brittany has no family of her own and develops strong bonds with the Thorpe men.  Ethan's grandfather is a delight and he forms strong emotional ties to Brittany as well.  Ethan's ex-wife decides she no longer wants to care for their son and turns him over full time to Ethan.  Brittany is now taking care of Ethan's father and son.  No longer able to control their feelings, Ethan and Brittany have several 'make out' sessions.<br />This is where I start having problems with the story.  Ethan is supposed to be the more mature person, but it felt like it was actually Brittany who was the more mature one.  Ethan fires Brittany on several occasions because he couldn't control his hormones.  He leads her on through most of the story.  His emotions and attitude kept running hot and cold.  The story had potential, but it turned out to be not real exciting.	2001-05-10
US	52437017	R312BR9EEIHG64	0373243421	378141681	Because Of The Twins... (Special Edition, 1342)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Graham was a highly sought after bachelor with a great career.  Graham's life was smooth and orderly until he finds out he is a father.  Graham's life is now upside down and has no clue how to be a father to his twins.  Graham is also pretty ticked off to discover that the woman he fell in love with had only used him to get pregnant and than disappear from his life.  The woman than died leaving Graham with two children.   Holly has always had a crush on Graham, but for some odd reason he has avoided her like the plague.  Graham is desperate for help and Holly is right there.  Graham is attracted to Holly, but the similarities between Holly and the woman that tricked him years ago is uncanny.  Hopefully, Graham can see that inside the women are nothing alike.  Holly has a heart of gold and would be a terrific mother to the twins and wife for him. This is a great story about a man trying to cope with suddenly becoming a father and all the changes that parenthood bring-both good and bad.	2001-05-07
US	52437017	RY9EIOPQFA93U	0373195141	332116926	Lost In His Arms	Books	2	0	0	N	N	:(	I thought that this story had a lot of potential, but was disappointed in the way that the story played out.  The beginning of the book is intense because the two main characters Talbot and hi ex-sister-in-law Elizabeth survive a plane crash and are forced to spend two days and nights alone together.  The situation could have led to powerful storytelling, but the author spent the time introducing us to the characters.  I was a bit bored with not only the story, but the slow pace in which it was told.  They walk away from the crash and each other, and soon are forced together again when another family crisis occurs.  As the reader you want to see these two get together just because it could add interest to the story, otherwise it was hard to care about what happened to any of the characters.	2001-05-04
US	52437017	R1JL1OXLEGTXNR	0373706979	961459518	Not Without My Child: Showcase (Harlequin Superromance No. 697)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	NOT WITHOUT MY CHILD is one of the most heart wrenching, heart-warming emotional story that I have ever read.  Tessa Marsden is without a doubt one of the most awe inspiring characters I have ever had the privilege to read about.  She is an extremely tough woman, who is unfortunately judged not only by her stunning good looks, but by the lies that her husband tells <BR>others.  Tessa knew almost immediately that her marriage to Grant was a mistake, but because of her religious and personal beliefs she felt that she must make her marriage work.  Unfortunately, the only good thing to come out of her marriage is her now five year old son Scotty.  Tessa loves her son with every fiber of her being and is a terrific mother.<br />However, when Tessa files for divorce, she is shocked to discover that Grant counter sues her for full custody of her son and claims that Tessa is an unfit mother.  Tessa is devastated and vows to fight for her son.  The deck is stacked against Tessa from the very beginning.  After her son was born, Tessa was misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder.  Before filing for divorce Tessa puts her life on the line when she stops taking medication that she had been on for four years.  This took so much courage and strength on her part.  Her husband and his lawyer (also known as little Hitler), however, try to make Tessa look like a sick, drug addicted, adulterous, emotionally distraught, and dangerous woman in court.  Thankfully, Tessa has luck on her side in the form of her attorney Alex Summerfield.<br />Alex pulls out all the stops in order to win Tessa's case.  In the process he also falls in love with her.  Alex and Tessa can in no way give into their feelings for one another because it could have a negative impact on her case. <br />This is a great story of one womans struggle, but with the help of her family and a man that gives her so much more than she ever thought possible, she survives and comes out stronger than ever. Terrific, heartbreaking, heartwarming! Rebecca Winters makes the reader want to fight for Tessa just as much as Alex and her family do. Highly Recommend, especially to someone who feels that they can not rise above the problems in their life and come out a better and stronger person.	2001-05-04
US	52437017	R19SCR73MME00Q	0373761961	418962171	Society Bride (Fortune's Children: The Brides) (Silhouette Desire, 1196)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	:)	Renee Riley's father told her that she must marry Lyle Norton a man that she does not know in order for her father and her to save the family company and their personal possessions.  Renee knows that she owes her father her loyalty and must do this for him.  Unfortunately, that very night she is kissed by none other than Garrett Fortune.  Garrett is divorced and has no intention of getting involved with any woman, so he returns to his ranch in Wyoming.  When Renee shows up at his Wyoming ranch, courtesy of Kate Fortune, the last thing that she expects is to see Garrett.  Kate thought Renee could use some time away before the wedding to think.  Garrett and Renee must face a lot of issues if they are to survive Renee's visit in Wyoming.  It gets interesting and there attraction gets hard to ignore.  Renee must make a choice between love and family loyalty.  Hopefully, Garrett can help her make the right decision.	2001-04-27
US	52437017	RYQ991U057G19	0373762089	505207186	The Secretary and the Millionaire (Fortune's Children: The Brides) (Silhouette Desire #1208)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Jack Fortune needs help fast.  He now has custody of his daughter after the death of his ex-wife.  Unfortunately, his daughter is like a stranger to him.  Amanda Corbain is Jack's assistant at work and she has had a crush on him forever.  So, when Jack asks Amanda to be his daughters live-in nanny, well how could she refuse.  Jack starts to see Amanda as more than his assistant.  He sees her has the attractive woman that she is and she is great with Jack's daughter.  Only Jack does not believe in marriage anymore and Amanda does.  Jack may have to change his mind fast if he wants to hang on to the best thing that has ever happened to him.<br />Another boss-assistant marriage for the Fortune family.  It was a fun story and it was nice to see a strong female character.	2001-04-27
US	52437017	RGWMSNC4V4H6P	0373501870	448452253	Forgotten Honeymoon (Fortune's Children)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	:)	There are so many words that you could use to describe Kristina Fortune: stubborn, hardheaded, coldhearted, rich, and prissy.  Those are just a few, but they are also a mask hidding who she really is.  As the youngest child she always had to use her intelligence and her smart tongue to be heard.  When Kristina heard her that her grandma Kate left her a B&amp;B in California, she thought that this was a project that could be all hers and would have her name on it and not the entire Fortune family.  Kristina takes a leave from Fortune Cosmetics and heads to California.  Kristina thinks she can waltz in and take over, but she meets her match in the half owner of the B&amp;B Max Cooper.  Max has no intention of letting Kristina take over the place.  From the moment that she arrived Kristina managed to get Max and the rest of the staff to hate her and her coldhearted ways.  Kristina manages to hit her heard and lose her memory.  Max and the staff figure this is a perfect opportunity to let &quot;Kris&quot; see the B&amp;B through the staffs eyes.  So, he tells her she is the maid and he puts her to work.  Max never thought that he would fall for this new tender loving Kris.  What happens when she figures out the truth?<br />This story was a good addition to the series.  I loved the new Kris that appeared without the Fortune aura.  Kris was able to be herself for once and find love at the same time.	2001-04-25
US	52437017	RXWQVF35AHGQM	0373501862	179575107	Wrangler's Bride (Fortune's Children)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	Grant McClure has never really felt apart of the Fortune clan, so it comes as no surprise that there is not a lot told about the rest of the family.  Grant lives in Wyoming and as mentioned in an earlier book Grant inherits Joker, a highly profitable horse from Kate, the presumed dead grandmother of the Fortunes.  Kristin, Grants sister, wants her childhood friend to stay at her brothers ranch to 'recover' from losing her partner from the police force.  Grant agrees, but he never expected to feel attracted to Mercy.  Mercy has always had a crush on Grant, and is surprised that she is still attracted to him.  Mercy and Grant make each other feel alive again.  The problem is that Grant belongs on the ranch and Mercy is a city girl.  They both are afraid that what they feel for each other now will only hurt them in the end.<br />This is a great love story.  Most of the other books in the series have had a very serious tone to them.  This story, however, is a bit lighter.  Joker the horse and Gambler the dog were a real treat.	2001-04-24
US	52437017	R3SC6CZZDNUKL6	0373501854	448890668	Mystery Heiress  (Fortune's Children)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Another person claiming to be a Fortune, but she does not want money.  Jessica Holmes comes to America to find her grandfather Ben's relatives.  The Fortunes may be her daughter Annie's only chance at life.  Arriving in Minneapolis, Annie becomes ill and is taken to the hospital.  Dr. Stephen Hunter will not only be Annie's doctor, but as luck would have, it he is also a neighbor to the Fortunes.  Stephen and Jessica form an unspoken bond to save Annie.  They are also very much attracted to each other.  One by one the Fortune clan start to get tested to see if they can help Annie.  <br />There is a lot going on in this book.  Not only the love between Stephen and Jessica, but also the pain of their pasts.  The Fortunes are also haunted by the trouble that Jake is in, not to mention, the company.  I felt that this book in particular would be best enjoyed by someone reading the entire series.  It is so full of information that is in some way connected to on going stories from the other books.	2001-04-24
US	52437017	R2W3K3LMTJPC5D	0373501838	811787925	A Husband in Time (Silhouette, Fortune's Children)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	:(	Disappointed does not even begin to cover how I feel about this book.  Almost always I give a book in the Fortunes Children series a four or five star rating simply because I love the series.  However, A Husband in Time is a book that I can not believe is apart of this series.  Jane and her young son Cody inherit an old house from Jane's grandma Kate.  The last thing Jane expects is a man to show up from 1897.  Thats right Zach, this intelligent scientist plans to go back in time so that he can keep his son Benjamin from getting sick, but instead accidently goes into the future and arrives in the year 1997.  Jane wants to help Zach, but if she does it could redo all of history and Jane may lose her son Cody.  I suppose this is supposed to be a timeless love story.  Even 'dead' Kate was aware of the time traveling Zach.  In my opinion, this story made a joke of the other books.  No offense to Maggie Shayne, who is an excellent writer.  I am not objecting to the story, its more that I do not believe that it fits in with the Fortune's Children series.	2001-04-23
US	52437017	RX2QCMBES2LX9	0373501811	584104362	The Wolf and the Dove (Fortune's Children)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Rachel Fortune inherits her grandmothers planes and helicopter and Rachel intends to put them to good use.  She is a pilot and she loves her job.  She is good at what she does and she is just as stubborn and pigheaded as her grandmother Kate.  Rachel needs an airstrip and after at first being told no, Dr. Lucas Greywolf finally gives in and agrees to lease her the airstrip that he owns.  Lucas thinks Rachel is a rich princess type that has never done a hard days work.  Lucas is constantly suprised by the things that Rachel does, and slowly he must admit that he was wrong about her.  Unfortunately, after one day trapped on a mountain they end up in each others arms and as a result Rachel is now pregnant.  So many obstacles of their own doing stand in the way of them being happy.  A near tragedy may be the key to bringing them together.<br />Again, another Fortunes Children series book that I have enjoyed. Rachel reminds me a lot of Kate.  I can not wait to read about Adam next.	2001-04-21
US	52437017	ROOR12UBG8TUV	0373501803	432119556	Stand - In Bride (Fortune'S Children)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	:)	Michael Fortune does not ever want a wife and he is perfectly happy with his Bachelor status until he is named as one of the ten most eligible bachelors in the USA.  Michael is outraged that he is is now the center of attention and that almost every available woman in the world sees him as prey.  The worst of it is that Michael's world is centered around the family business and because of the magazine article the business is suffering.  Michael's cousin comes up with a simple solution-he should announce his fake engagement.  With a fake fiancee the women of America will leave him alone and life can be business as usual.  The woman stuck with this job of fake fiancee would be none other than his mousy assistant Julia.  Michael and Julia never count on their real feelings getting in the way of this fake engagement.<br />I gave this story four stars simply because I like the fortune series, but I was disappointed at the ending.  The entire time the author builds up to this explosive moment and than in a couple of pages its wrapped up and over.  It was like Michael flipped a switch and his entire attitude changed.  The story was good, but the ending could have been better.	2001-04-21
US	52437017	RF5NRD2GANBW2	0373501781	876012616	Millionaire And The Cowgirl (Fortune's Children)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	:)	We are introduced to Kyle in the first of the Fortune's Children series Hired Husband.  We learn that Kyle is a millionaire playboy.  In this book, Kyle learns that his grandmother Kate has left him a ranch in Wyoming, but for him to inherit it he must live there for at least six months.  Kate and all her wisdom knew that ten years ago Kyle had a summer romance with Samantha Rawlings, neighbor of the Wyoming ranch.  Kate also knew that Sam's daughter was Kyle's.  So, match-making from &quot;beyond the grave&quot; she makes sure that Kyle is put into a position that he is sure to find out about his daughter.  How Kyle and Sam handle the situation is beyond Kate's control.<br />I am starting to see how the series will unfold and I am not only enjoying it, but I can't wait for the next one.	2001-04-20
US	52437017	R3O2VPYQQELP3M	0373194285	589766642	Family Diamond (Silhouette Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	Maura took the job with Spencer Diamond so that she would have a reason to visit the town that he lived.  Maura recently discovered that her father lives in the same town, a father that she never knew of until now.  Spencer was suprised when Maura called and asked if his offer of a job was still available.  When Spencer first asked Maura to see if she could help his horse overcome his fear of starting gates at the race track she said No.  Although Spencer was suspicious of her reasons he really needed her help.  The more time they spend together the more attracted they are to one another.  But, what happens when Maura's secret comes out?<br />I was a bit bored with the story.  I felt that it had great potential, but it held little excitement.  And like the first book about the Diamond family I was disappointed at the ending.  Just when you think that the story has a chance to get exciting, its over.  Oh well, maybe the last story in the series will be better.	2001-04-18
US	52437017	RG3ZDYLB0O42R	0373194587	662491556	Denim & Diamond (Silhouette Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	The last of the Diamond siblings is getting married.  Piper has always had a crush on Kyle Masters, but he flat out refused and humiliated her the last time they seen each other.  Now years later Piper returns pregnant and scared.  The father of her child is gone and his parents want her baby.  Her lawyer suggests that she have a marriage of convience.  The only person that Piper thinks to ask is the now divorced father Kyle.  Kyle had a hard enough time walking away from young Piper all those years ago, and the thought of her marrying anyone else made him see red.  Kyle and Piper decide on a marriage of convience, but what they both want is a real marriage.  But, will they admit it before its to late?<br />This series held little excitement for me.  I found that the stories held a lot of potential, but rarely lived up to it.  I have found it disappointing that in all three stories the characters only admit their feelings in the last couple of pages.  This leaves me wondering what happens next.	2001-04-18
US	52437017	R2KB27LCZHB320	0373761856	655680231	Marriage Outlaw Style  (Outlaw Hearts) (Silhouette Desire, No. 1185)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Maddie and Clay have battled each other since childhood.  They were always trying to one up the other one.  They thrived on the competition and loved to win.  Lately, however, things have felt different.  There is a lot of sexual tension in the air that everyone that loves them can see, but them.  So, Clays family, which happens to include Maddie as if she were one of them, decide to give this couple a little push.  The James family arranges for Clay and Maddie to be stranded in the family cabin in the mountains.  There is no way to put it except all hell breaks lose.  When the family comes to get them a week later they never expected to see actual blood and bruises.  Maddie and Clay are so stubborn that they deny whats in front of there faces.  Until Maddie gets more than she bargains for from there little trip in the mountains.<br />The rivalry between the two is hilarious.  Although, the constant denying of what they are feeling gets old after awhile.  More often than not I was feeling sorry for Clay.  This book is still better than the first one in the series.  And I can not wait to read about the last brother in the series, Jesse.	2001-04-17
US	52437017	R20CXGTW6S5E3R	0373763603	957677963	Reese's Wild Wager (Secrets!) (Silhouette Desire, No 1360)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	:)	This is the sixth book in the Secrets! series and I have to tell you I loved it.  I love the whole series and I am anxiously awaiting the next book.  In this book the next Sinclair sibling to go down for the count is Reese Sinclair.  Of course, all of the Sinclair men are gorgeous with playboy reputations.  Reese admits that he likes women, so what.  Reese had no plans to marry anyone.  He liked being a bachelor, until one wild night of--poker, yes poker.  Sydney bursts into his life and makes hime feel things that he was not sure he liked.  Sydney, knew of Reese's reputation as a playboy and tried not to take hime seriously, but he was starting to chip away the ice around her heart.  This is a very funny and romantic story.  The peanuts made me laugh out loud and the roses made me smile.  The story is very fast paced and a great addition to the series.  If you have not read the other books than I highly recommend them.  They are all great.	2001-04-14
US	52437017	R1MQVALCOG0ZUM	0373762402	429331984	Barons Of Texas: Tess  (The Barons Of Texas) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Tess Baron at first seems like an uptight business woman with no feelings for anyone other than herself.  But in this story, as in life, not everything is as it seems.  Nick Trejo suddenly appears and nothing is the same for Tess again.  Tess has never known love in her life, so for her life is about her work and the family business.  Tess is drilling for oil that could bring in millions of dollars, but at the same time she may cost Nick his family's fortune and his grandfathers dream.  At first, Tess is unimpressed with Nick and his plea for her to stop drilling, but she soon learns Nick will pull out all the stops to convince her to do the right thing.  Nick is unaware of the price that Tess will have to pay in order to help him.  Even though Nick and Tess seem to be at a impass they are still deeply attracted to each other.  Nick and Tess give us a story of love, courage, faith, and any other emotion that you can think of.  This is a great start to the series.	2001-04-14
US	52437017	RBHM40UFM30SQ	0373194897	341298083	Rachel and the M.D. (Single Doctor Dads) (Harlequin Romance)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	:)	This is the last book in the single doctor dads series.  Dr. Sloan Radcliff is a widow trying to raise his three triplet daughters.  If you read the other two books than you know that Rachel, the office manager has always been there for Sloan and his daughters, and she is the girls godmother.  Rachel also has another secret that if you are reading the series than you know.  Rachel is in love with Sloan.  Sloan, being a typical man, is unaware of Rachel's feelings.  Sloan's daughters, on the other hand, feel that their dad needs a distraction to keep his focus off of them.  They believe if they get there dad interested in a woman than he will be to preoccupied to worry about them.  They get there dad and Rachel together on New Years Eve and for the first time Sloan sees Rachel for the attractive woman that she is.  Sparks fly, but the future is long and bumpy.  Not to mention the fact that both of them feel pretty guilty about the past.<br />Again, I was disappointed in this book like the other two.  The story was centered mostly on the characters thoughts instead of their actions, interactions, and conversations with each other.  I felt that the story had a lot of potential, but that it fell short at the end.	2001-04-09
US	52437017	R2Z0PQHQB0G4WZ	0373194838	739579106	The Doctor's Medicine Woman	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	This is the second book in the single doctor dads series.  Dr. Travis Westcott wants to adopt two Native American twin boys.  Being part Native American himself has helped his case with the counsel.  It also didn't hurt that he helped play a role in seeing that they got the medical attention they needed to save their lives.  The counsel, however, worries about him taking the boys away from the tribe.  They believe he is ignorant about the ways of there people and the boys will suffer by not knowing and understanding their heritage.  The counsel has agreed to let him adopt the boys, but Travis must allow the tribes medicine woman to live with him until she believes the boys have a good understanding of their culture.  Travis never expects to fall for her, but when they are together sparks fly.<br />I was disappointed because I felt that the story was centered on the thoughts of the characters and rarely on their actions, interactions, or conversations with each other.  I also felt that the author was building up to something important and than just tossed it in at the end of the story.  I got to the last page and I thought, this can not be the end.  The story was okay, but I felt it could be a lot better.	2001-04-09
US	52437017	R26JZV2FLKUGV0	037319465X	627701372	Prince's Bride-To-Be (The Carramer Crown) (Silhouette Romance, No. 1465)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the second book in the Carramer Crown series.  Prince Michel de Marigny is known as the playboy Prince.  However, Michel's reputation is not exactly accurate, but adopting a child that is believed to be his love child, does not help.  Michel is bitter to the idea of love after seeing what happened to his brother.  Michel believes that a marriage of convience would be the best thing.  Luckily, at the age of thirteen Michel was betrothed to Eleanor, and she is legally obligated to marry him.  When Michel sends for his future bride, unknown to him, her twin sister comes instead.  Caroline has always had a thing for Michel, but more important she wants to protect her sister, who is in love with another man.  Caroline hates to lie and soon things get out of hand.  It is interesting to see this story play out.  A good addition to the series.	2001-04-07
US	52437017	R37BAJS07SK6D2	0373194595	208152687	The Monarchs Son (The Carramer Crown) (Silhouette Romance 1459)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	This is the first book in the Carramer Crown series.  Prince Lorne de Marigny is the ruling Monarch in Carramer.  He is the oldest of three siblings, a widow, and a single father.  Lorne has no interest in getting involved with a woman after his disasterous marriage.  Lorne does not count on Allie literally washing up on his private beach.  After seeing that she gets medical attention, Lorne invites Allie to stay on as his sons companion.  Allie agrees because she really wants to help the Prince's son, Nori.  Allie and Lorne are very attracted to each other, but at the same time they anger each other like no else can.  In a heated arguement Allie does something that she regrets deeply, but it is to late and the Prince punishes Allie.  He takes away the one thing that hurts her the most.  She wants to hate him, but she can not help but be drawn to him.  This is an exciting beginning to what I am sure will be a great series.	2001-04-07
US	52437017	R1FHFWZOSSMGPS	0373194714	104994060	The Princess's Proposal (The Carramer Crown) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the last book in the Carramer Crown series.  Princess Adrienne de Marigny is more rebellious than her two brothers.  The problem is that the things that she does is dangerous.  The most damaging is when she goes out in public in disguise without her bodyguards.  Adrienne is the only one out of her siblings that is not in charge of ruling any of the people, that job is left to her brothers.  Adrienne's passion lies with horses and her dream is to have a horse breeding ranch.  Obviously, her brothers do not see this as a job for the princess and refuse to sell her the land that she needs.  Adrienne is outraged to learn that her brother has sold the land to an American, Hugh.  Hugh is not satisfied with owning just the land, no he wants Adrienne's prize horse-one of the best horses in the world.  Hugh and Adrienne decide on a challenge and the winner takes both the land and the horse.  There are serious problems associated with this challenge.  Not only is it dangerous, but her brothers would be outraged to discover what she is doing.  Probably more damaging than that is the feelings that these two have for each other.  The both come from different sides of the fence, so to speak.  They know they have no future, but how can they deny how they feel.<br />This is a fast paced enjoyable book.  The whole serious was good.	2001-04-07
US	52437017	R2HZCLD8QFPJRL	0373761538	992123694	Cowboy Crashes A Wedding  (Code Of The West) (Silhouette Desire , No 1153)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	In the previous Code of the West series book Shane was going to kidnap Milly to prevent her from marrying the wrong guy.  Shane knew that his buddy Cash loved her, but could not be there to stop the wedding.  The only problem was Shane kidnapped the wrong girl.  This story 'The Cowboy Crashes a Wedding' picks up Cash's story from there.  Cash has been seeing Milly for about five years now whenever he could visit.  Cash is a bronc rider in rodeo's.  Milly assumes that once she graduates from college that they will get married.  Little does she know that Cash has no interest in getting married.  Finally, Milly wises up and soon after finds a man that does want to marry her.  And it is just Milly's luck that now that she is planning on getting married that Cash realizes that he would rather marry her than live without her.  It makes for an interesting story.  Highly enjoyable addition to the series.	2001-04-04
US	52437017	R31HU5F4VDHO9D	0373761171	597360351	The Cowboy Steals A Lady (Man Of Month) (Harlequin Silhouette Desire, No 1117)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	The last Code of the West series-A Cowboy's Tears was a pretty sad story involving Mace and Jenny, so this book involving Mace's brother Shane was a real delight.  Shane thinks that he is doing his buddy a favor by kidnapping the woman that he loves, so that she is unable to marry the wrong man.  Only things don't exactly go as planned for poor Shane.  Darnit, he thought he was doing the right thing by helping out his buddy Cash.  Shane does not think that anything could be worse than stealing the wrong lady, but again he finds out he is wrong.  Not only is Poppy not the right girl, but she is also the daughter of a judge.  And not just any judge, but the one judge that completely humiliated Shane many years back.  Shane hopes his luck turns around and he falls off the face of the earth before Poppy's father gets ahold of him.  Shane is also having a hard time understanding why Poppy is so darn happy about being snowed in at this small cabin.  The last thing that Shane wants is to fall for Poppy-he has nothing to offer her.  Unfortunately, Shane's luck has not been all that great lately and Poppy sees no reason not to enjoy herself while alone with Shane.  They both have no idea whats in store for them.  This was a great book and very funny.  Shane ends up being the kidnapper, but you can not help but feel sorry for the guy.  I can not wait to read the next book in the series about Shane's buddy Cash.	2001-04-03
US	52437017	R2BAFX143QZPIR	0373241372	729368116	A Cowboy's Tears (Code of the West) (Silhouette Special Edition, No 1137)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	:)	If you are reading the Code of the West series than you should already be famliar with Mace and Jenny Nichols.  They have known each other for so long and have been married for fourteen years.  The only thing that would make their lives complete would be to have children.  After putting their family on hold so that they could save money and start a ranch, they have decided that now is the time.  Unfortunately, three years later and still no baby.  After going to the doctor they discover that Mace is sterile.  Mace is the ultimate cowboy-rough, tough, and handsome.  Mace feels like less of a man now that he knows he can not father children.  His solution is to let Jenny go, so that she can find a man that can give her children.  When he files for divorce Jenny is stunned along with all of there friends and family.  Everyone knows that they belong together and they all do there best to make Mace see that.  The results are heartbreaking and heartwarming.  Mace can not see past his own pain to see how bad he is hurting Jenny.  It takes a widowed priest and an intelligent ten year old (Becky) to convince Mace that life is nothing without Jenny.  Becky has a small story of her own in this book.  Becky has been in previous Code of the West books and is the daughter of Taggart.  This was an enjoyable book to read.	2001-04-03
US	52437017	R1DK7A0K1ZJJPT	0373760094	294118035	Cowboy And The Kid (Man Of The Month) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Ex-Rodeo Cowboy Taggart Jones played an important part in 'Cowboys Stay' another Code of the West book about the story of Noah.  Taggart was Noah's rodeo traveling partner until they both ended up in a really bad car accident that almost killed them.  Taggart realized that being around for his daughter Becky was more important than being on the road, so he left the rodeo.  Noah and Taggart opened a rodeo school.  Taggart thinks that he and Becky are doing just fine.  Becky, on the other hand, thinks that her dad needs a woman.  Taggart was burned once before by Becky's mom, who eventually left them both, so he has no desire to marry again.  Becky thinks that her teacher-Felicity would be perfect wife and mother material.  Becky, with the help of her friends set out to get Felicity and Taggart together.  The process and the results are both funny and heart warming.  I enjoyed this book and the strong characters involved.  The best part were the women-they were portrayed as strong and showed a lot of guts.  A perfect addition to the Code of the West series.	2001-04-02
US	52437017	R2W3QCJTQZ60K6	0373059078	847300424	Cowboys Don't Cry (Code of the West) (Silhouette Desire, No 907)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	:)	This is the first book in the Code of the West series.  Robert Tanner is the Ranch Foreman and is good at his job.  When his employer dies she leaves the ranch to Maggie MacLeod, a school teacher.  Robert tries everything to make Maggie feel uncomfortable and unwanted, but it does no good.  Maggie has always wanted a place to call home and has no intention of leaving the ranch.  There is no hiding the attraction between the two, but Robert has no intention of ever letting himself love another woman.  Robert is running from the hurt in his past and from the future that he could have if he would just let Maggie into his heart.  <br />A great story about a truly stubborn pigheaded cowboy and a woman with a great deal of love.	2001-04-01
US	52437017	R2RSF7C0JVVY4C	0373192940	582767407	Unforgettable Bride (Virgin Brides) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Bobby Metcalf is first introduced to us in the Daughters of Texas series: Maribeth's story, 'The Groom, I Presume?'---In the previous story Bobby was supposed to marry his long time childhood friend Maribeth, but a few days before the wedding he gets married to a woman, he barely knows, in Vegas and leaves his best friend Chris to tell Maribeth what he has done and that the wedding is off.  Chris ends up marrying Maribeth and Bobby's Vegas marriage is annuled.  That brings us to this story, 'Unforgettable Bride' where Bobby again runs off to Vegas to marry a woman he just met in a bar.  This time, however, Bobby is doing it for noble reasons.  Casey Carmichael is eighteen and her rich and powerful father has arranged a marriage for Casey to a man that she not only does not love, but he has a girlfriend and a child.  Casey runs away in the middle of the night and finds Booby at a bar and tells him her story.  Casey begs Bobby to marry her, so that she can get the inheritance that her grandfather left her and hopefully escape marriage to the man her father wants her to marry.  <br />Casey and Bobby believe they are doing the right thing, but they have no idea what waits for them when Casey returns home.  Booby also figures that since he has done this once before that this time should be no different.  He is unprepared for the feelings that he has for his new short term bride.  The question is what does he plan to do about it?  <br />Not only do we get a great love story with a rocky beginning, but if you read the Daughters of Texas series than you will be pleased to know that Maribeth and Chris play important roles in this story as well.  If you have not read the other story that is okay because this one can certainly stand on its own.	2001-04-01
US	52437017	R2XHKNGVRIT3AA	0373483368	992605270	Sons Of Texas: Rogues And Ranchers	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	:|	I almost give this book five stars simply because I love the Sons of Texas series.  I did not, however, give it five stars for one reason-the three angels at the beginning of the story.  Annette Broadrick decided for some odd reason to have three guardian angels that decide to 'help' Clint, Cade, and Matt Calloway to see love and accept it.  By doing this it felt like the author was not as serious about the stories of Clint, Cade, and Matt the same way that she was for the first four stories.<br />Anyway, with that said, it was fun to read about the Calloways again.  Clint is an undercover agent like his uncle Cody.  Cade works at the ranch much like his brother Tony decided to do.  Matt followed his adopted fathers footsteps and became a lawyer.  All three men are good looking bachelors, and not a one of them thought that they would settle down any time soon.  Of course, all it takes is the right woman.  I enjoyed Matt's story the most because it shed some light on a character that has become very familiar through out the Sons of Texas series-Aunt Leittia.  I will not give anything away, but I will say that it gives us a whole new perspective on who she was and why she did the things that she did.  I liked that all of the characters from previous books were joined together at the end of the book.<br />This is not the best book in the series, but it was nice to read about the Callaways again.	2001-03-30
US	52437017	R6YG6WW3T2BBL	0373057458	138078439	Marriage Texas Style	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	The third Callaway brother in the series is Cody.  Cody is the mysterious younger brother of Cole and Cameron.  No one knows what it is that keeps Cody away for long periods of time, but for their protection Cody can not tell them.  Cody insists he is not the marrying type.  He was more than suprised when Carina Ramirez shows up in his Mexican hotel room to warn him that someone is going to kill him.  Before they can escape they are kidnapped, and if things were not bad already, they are rescued by Carina's older brother.  Alfonso believes that his sisters innocence and reputation are ruined by her time &quot;together&quot; with Cody.  Now the man that claimed to never marry was about to be forced to marry Carina.  Cody has always been an honorable guy, so for Carina's sake, they marry.  The question is can Cody and Carina make a forced marriage work.  Also, there is still the matter of Cody's job that keeps him away for long periods of time and forces him to keep secrets from his wife.<br />This story in the Sons of Texas series is yet another terrific love story, but it also wraps up the mystery surrounding the problems and accidents that have troubled the Callaways.	2001-03-29
US	52437017	R12QT5CFMJE1RH	0373057342	62997843	Love Texas Style (Silhouette Desire, No. 734)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	The famous Sons of Texas series.  This is the first book in that series and it was good.  Cole Callaway is completely stressed out by life.  As head of the family and Callaway enterprises, cole has a lot on his shoulders.  It all gets to be to much and he takes off out of an important meeting and winds up on the beach.  The last thing that Cole expects to find is a son that he never knew existed.  Cole discovers that his one and only love who he believed walked out on him fifteen years ago had his child and never told him.  Now Cole must deal with the past and the woman he never got over.  He must deal with the present-his new found son Tony.  There is also someone out to hurt his family and Cole must step up as head of the family and be there when tragedy strikes.  Cole wants to start thinking about the future, but it is not going to be easy.  Nothing in Cole's life seems easy.<br />Annette Broadrick presents us not only with a story about love, but also a strong story about family.  I felt for all the characters-not just the main ones.  I can not wait to read about all of the Callaway's.	2001-03-29
US	52437017	R3UX9FBVD49QAA	0373036272	334274240	Marriage In Mind (The Marriage Pledge) (Romance, 3627 : The Marriage Pledge)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	:|	This is the last book in the Marriage Pledge series.  To be honest all three books are basically the same.  There is a pattern that is followed in all three.  Astra is beautiful, rich, and smart and loves her job in personal finance.  That is until Sayre Baxendale points out a huge mistake that she made, and Astra being the proud woman she is feels she has no choice but to quit her job.  Astra's cousin Greville, who played minor roles in the other two books is a major character in this one.  Just Astra's luck Greville falls for Sayres sister.  Astra is forced to spend time with Sayre and quickly realizes she is attracted to him.<br />If you have read the other two books than you know exactly how this story is going to unfold.  In all three books the women are beautiful, come from money, and are very sassy.  The men are stubborn, rich, and powerful.  The women come off as stupid in the romance department.  Astra however is the worst-At twenty two she honestly thought that necking was making love.  The story was one sided, we only know it from Astra's point of view.  The reader only finds out what Sayre is thinking at the very end when he tells us.  The book was okay, but like the other two, it could have been a lot better.	2001-03-26
US	52437017	R1TIK3JGEZ2HX7	0373036159	633728715	Bachelor in Need (The Marriage Pledge) (Harlequin Romance, No 3615)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	:|	This is the second book in the series.  But, if you read the first one than you should know that this one follows the same pattern as the story unfolds.  Fennia finds herself thrown together with the very powerful and rich Jeger Urquart.  Jeger is now responsible for his two year old niece, while her parents are recovering from a bad car accident.  Jeger doesn't know anything about kids so Fennia decides to help, she is familiar with Nikki since she works at the daycare that Nikki attends.  Fennia finds Jeger to be a jerk, but is still attracted to him.<br />I have all three books in the series and they are all the same.  The women come off as sassy and the men rich and powerful.  The story is one sided.  The entire story is told from Fennias perspective and we never know what Jeger is feeling until the very end.  The story was good, but it could have been better.	2001-03-25
US	52437017	R3U6VNT21LH9PJ	0263166902	476254843	The Feisty Fiance	Books	3	0	1	N	N	:|	Yancie has never had a job before except cleaning her stepfathers house, but she loves her new job that her cousin helped her get as a driver.  Yancie, however, does not seem to take her job seriously.  She uses the car for her own personal interest while on and off the clock.  Yancie never seems to see a problem with what she does, but her boss Thomson most certainly does.  Yancie finds that the man drives her nuts, but she also finds herself attracted to him.<br />The book seems one sided.  It is told only from Yancie's perspective, so we never know what Thompson is thinking until the very end.  This lets the reader really get to know her and I kept asking myself-Can this woman really be that stupid?  Not only does she not take her job seriously, but she talks down to her boss and lies to him on a regular bases.<br />I bought all three books in the series and they are all alike--the women characters come off as sassy and the men rich and powerful.  The book was okay, but it could have been better.	2001-03-25
US	52437017	R14BSJ89DXACM4	0373158653	993939901	English Bride	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	This is the 3rd book in the Legends of the Outback series.  We know that from the previous two book that Lady Francesca de Lyle is interested in Grant Cameron.  In this book, Francesca and Grant explore their feelings.  The main obstacle that they face is that Grant is rugged and lives in the outback and Francesca is rich and lives a privileged life.  They know that they both love each other, but they both have to take that leap of faith.<br />I love this series by Margaret Way for several reasons.  The main characters are in all three books, but each book focuses a story around one couple.  Margaret Way has this need to describe EVERYTHING in great detail-the land, facial characteristics, clothes, and even the layouts of rooms.  She makes you see everything in vivid detail.  Another thing that she does that sets her apart from every author that I have ever read is that she never just tells us the actions of secondary characters, instead every character no matter how unimportant shares their thoughts and feelings with us.  By doing this we know what the motives are for everyone.  Margaret Way never leaves us unsure or guessing-she has an uncanny ability to draw the reader into the story and make you feel like you know her character on an intimate level.  I am highly impressed by this author.  I also suggest that you read all three books in the series because you would be cheating yourself if you didn't.	2001-03-18
US	52437017	R39JCWP2RI2FRS	0373035950	229228822	Wife At Kimbara (Legends Of The Outback) (Romance, 3595 : Legends of the Outback)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Rebecca Hunt is brought to Kimbara to write a biography for Fee-a famous actress in her time.  Fee's brother Stuart, who is old enough to be her father, has fallen in love with Rebecca.  Rebecca has no idea of Stuarts intentions until Stuarts son Brod pays a visit.  Brod makes his disgust for Rebecca known.  He considers Rebecca a gold-digger, which is the furthest thing from the truth.  Brod also develops feelings other than hate towards Rebecca and vice-versa.  Stuart has no intention of giving up Rebecca, who he considers a possesion.   Tragedy strikes.  The story turns and Rebecca and Brod have to deal with their feelings for each other.  Rebecca's past catches up to her to add yet another obstacle.  Can Brod and Rebecca ever be happy?<br />There are so many angles, layers, and emotions to this book.  What makes it even more interesting is the other characters.  The reader is able to understand everyones motives because we get to know the thoughts of all the characters in the book.  I find this rare in any story, as a matter of fact, this is the first time I have ran across it.  Usually, we know what minor characters actions are, but never there thoughts.  This adds a new element to this story.  Very good book-highly recommend.	2001-03-17
US	52437017	R3RE4YM96M6TXV	0373078447	294551255	Her First Mother (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 844)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	Amanda adored her adopted daughter more than anything in the world, so she was crushed when Jamie's biological mother wanted her back.  Jamie was three when her biological mother Paige got custody of her.  Now almost three and a half years later Paige's brother shows up at her door step and asks her to marry him.  <br />Ross recently found out that his grandfather bribed the judge that gave Paige custody.  Ross now raising his niece thought that the best way to keep her was to marry Amanda.   Ross did not want to take the chance of losing Amanda if the custody case was reopened.  Ross, of course, does not tell Amanda about the bribed judge.  <br />Amanda agrees to marry Ross believing it is the only way that she can be a mother to Amanda again.  The question is-Can there little family get over the past in order to have a future?  And, what happens when Amand learns the truth?<br />Emotional story.  Ross and Amanda are both characters that you feel for.  People will do almost anything for the love of a child.	2001-03-15
US	52437017	R1LUC88XEYP3HW	0373763492	660008187	The Millionaire Takes A Bride (Silhouette Desire)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	:|	Faith and Will want to get married, but Will is afraid that if his wealthy brother Jackson finds out that he will try to stop them as he has done in the past.  Will comes up with a plan to have Faith's sister Georgia pretend to be the one marrying Will so they can get Jackson off his brothers back.<br />Jackson is determined to stop the wedding and shows up at Georgia's in the middle of a rain storm.  Now not only is he stuck in a small backwoods town in the middle of nowhere, but he soon discovers that his brother has tricked him.  Jackson tries to make the best out of the situation and finds himself drawn to Georgia and her son.<br />I liked the story of Jackson and Georgia.  The story, however, is told only through Georgia's eyes.  We never see the story from Jacksons perspective.   I believe that it would have added a lot of interest to know what the hotheaded Jackson was thinking.  As a result, I fell the story was lacking something.<br />*The back of the back is awful-it has the female character as Annie and its actually Georgia.  It says Jackson is a businessman when he is actually a lawyer.  It says they stayed in a tiny cabin when it was actually a house.	2001-03-11
US	52437017	R34LMXF6GHDTYC	0373709013	872637055	Luke's Daughters: The Brennan Brothers (Harlequin Superromance No. 901)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	This is the first book in the Brennan Brothers series.  This is the story of Luke.<br />Matt and Kristen are engaged.  Matt goes off to a special forces assignment and his family is told that he is dead.  Kristen is pregnant, so Luke offers to marry her so that her baby has a father.  Luke and Kristen have always been friends and several years into the marriage there friendship grows and the marriage becomes 'real' and, as a result, another child is born.  Five years after leaving on assignment Matt comes back.  Kristen and Lukes marriage falls apart and they get divorced.  Kristen marries Matt.  This is difficult for everyone: Luke, Matt Kristen, and the girls.  <br />This book starts with Matt coming back and the problems that it creates.  Luke has to learn to deal with his loss and open his heart to love again.  Most of the time you want to smack Matt for being a jerk along with Matt and Lukes family.  Nobody wins in this situation, but they have to find some middle ground.  Lynnette Kent did a great job at getting Luke's feelings and emotions across in the book.  Sad, but highly enjoyable.	2001-03-09
US	52437017	RY20XLTUE4UYM	0373761937	780529671	Hart's Baby (Silhouette Desire, 1193)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	:)	Cassie Morrison has to deal with the grief of losing her only relative, her sister, who dies in a car accident.  Now Cassie must raise her newborn nephew.  Cassie discovers Chad Hart's name on Billies birth certificate and sets off to Wyoming to find him.<br />Zach Hart, Chad's brother, does not believe that Chad is the babys father.  The Harts have suffered through two incidents like this before and he has no intention of letting Cassie hurt his family.  Zach's mother falls in love with Billie, her grandson, and insists that Cassie stay at the ranch until Chad can be found.<br />Zach finds himself drawn to Cassie and starts to believe her story.  Cassie knows she is asking for trouble by getting involved with Zach, but she can not seem to help herself.  Cassie is also not prepared for the hurt that Zach causes her.  Once Chad returns from South America, what he has to say is not what any of them expected.<br />This is a story about the power of truth, and learning to love again.	2001-03-09
US	52437017	R1NV0FSH6540TL	0373709382	768465956	Matt's Family: The Brennan Brothers (Harlequin Superromance No. 938)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	:|	This is the second book about the Brennan Brothers.  Luke's Daughters was the first book and it was very good.  This one, however, is focused on Matt Brennan.  This book was very depressing.  Matt was engaged to Kristen and than went on a special forces mission and his family was told that he was dead.  Kristen was pregnant and alone.  Matt's brother Luke thought he could help by marrying her and claiming that the baby was his.  Luke and Kristen get married and have a child of their own.  Five years later Matt comes back.  Luke divorces Kristen and Matt marries her.  This is hard on everyone involved: Luke, Matt, Kristen, and the two girls.  I had a hard time feeling bad for Matt and Kristen.  The people that I continued to feel sorry for were Luke and the girls.  The story did a good job of sharing how everyone felt.  It is basically a story of forgiveness and how to find a middle ground or balance among a heap of heartache, guilt, and anger.  To find any real happiness in this series I highly recommend that you read the first book about Luke and the girls.	2001-03-09
US	52437017	R246LGLT0STZAA	0373598572	635156426	Friends, Lovers...and Babies! (Special Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Deedee Hamilton is introduced to us in the first of the Baby Bet series books-Angels and Elves.  Deedee runs the bookstore and is best friends with Andrea and Jillian.  Andrea's brother Ryan is a cop and at the beginning of the book we discover that his wife is tragically killed and two years later he is still secluding himself from life.  He has retired from the police force, never dates, and hardly participates in family functions.  Deedee is a life long friend of the MacAllister clan and wants to help Ryan.  Deedee, herself, is a widow and feels she can help Ryan.  This is a beautiful love story of two people waking up and deciding to live again with the help of each other and family.  The great thing is if you are reading the Baby Bet series than you will be happy to know that the rest of the MacAllister clan is involved in this book as well.  It is just a fun series.	2001-03-06
US	52437017	R1Z16D9F6OBU7O	0373596030	283325935	The Father of Her Child	Books	4	4	4	N	N	:)	I love the Baby Bet series.  If you have read the other books you know how close the MacAllister clan is and how in every book there is mention of Ted, Ryan's partner on the police force.  Now we finally get to meet Ted in this book.  Ted is very much a bachelor until he meets his very pregnant next door neighbor and decides to do the honorable thing and help her out.  Of course, his neighbor Hannah is cautious because of her distrust towards men.  Here she was a divorced pregnant woman and she was to believe that her hunk of a next door neighbor liked her.  Ted has his work cut out for him, but that does not mean that he wants a future with Hannah-how can he when she will toss him out when she finds out his secret?  So, he has to get rid of her right after the baby is born so that she never finds out the truth, but is that possible?  I love that Ted can so openly care for this pregnant woman and another mans baby.  The &quot;secret&quot; that he keeps drives me nuts because the reader knows that Hannah loves him and it will not matter to her, but Ted is so stubborn.  The Baby bet comes into play in this book as in all the others.  Only if you have read the other books you know that Forrest is the champion, but you will be suprised to find that he is dethrowned in this book.  This was a nice addition to the series.	2001-03-06
US	52437017	R7M224UERTHOC	0373059558	167528109	Wildcat  (Man Of The Month) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Morgan McCain is grieving for the loss of his business partner and friend.  Now he has to deal with his friends high and mighty daughter.  Cat Devlin is grieving for the loss of her father.  Cat was also just fired from her job after breaking off her wedding engagement to her boss.  Cat knows nothing about the business her father was a partner in, but when she discovers that he left her some stock in the company she decides to stay on at the company.  Morgan does not want her there, but decides to give her a chance.  It also does not hurt that he is attracted to the woman.  They both have there work cut out for them.  This story was a quick romantic read.  These two &quot;wildcats&quot; make a perfect match at work and at home.	2001-03-02
US	52437017	R3OD8Y1Q7T3OSF	0373059604	756891017	Rogue And The Rich Girl  (Premiere) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	Nicole Jackson owns a compnay that was started by her father.  Her work is that of a mediator.  Her company is in jeopardy right now and the only way to salvage it is to go to a very remote island and talk to the governor there.  She has been hired to make sure that her clients plant gets up and running.  There has been political opposition to this plant and rebels have caused problems.  No airlines will fly to the island.  Nicole hires Risky Business the one company that specializes in flying where no one else will.<br />Ace Lawson owns Risky Business and agrees to fly Nicole to the island, but he is also against the plant and plans to get her to change her mind in mediating for the company.  Only when they get to the island all heck breaks loose and Nicole's life may be in jeopardy and Ace was paid to protect her.  Ace hates what Nicole's company is doing, but he can not help being attracted to the woman.  Now they are hiding out in the jungle and have no choice but to spend every waking minute together.<br />This book was exciting, fun, and romantic.  I can not wait to read the authors other books.	2001-03-02
US	52437017	R13YTT0ZEGPM7L	0373762690	722389120	Dr. Mommy (From Here To Maternity) (Silhouette Desire, 1269)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	:(	Claire Wainwright does not like kids, although she is an obstetrician.  So, when she finds a baby outside her door on New Years Eve she is surprised and terrified.  Claire calls the police and when Detective Nick Campisano shows up Claire decides her night can not get much worse.  Nick and Claire were lovers twelve years ago and after they seperated neither of them really moved on because they were still in love with each other and now they are together again.  Nick and Claire are snowed in and must come together to take care of the baby.  And if they can get over there past problems maybe they can have a future they always dreamed of.<br />Ninety-eight percent of this story is based on what Claire and Nick are thinking.  There was very little discussion between the two characters.  Most of the story was based on the little conversations and thoughts going on in their heads.  They each thought about the past, they each had their own opinions of the present, and they each thought about the possible future.  I was bored to tears.  No matter how bad the book is I never skip over parts of the story, but I have to admit that I was real tempted in this book.  I was really disappointed in this book and I hardly ever give bad reviews.  This is the first book of Elizabeth Bevarly's that I have read.  Although I did not like Dr. Mommy I plan on trying another of her books.	2001-02-28
US	52437017	RBQZTMWSP1RZ8	0373762801	869112794	Doctor Wore Spurs (Lone Star Families: The Logans) (Desire, 1280)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the second book in The Lone Star Families: The Logans series.  This one is about Pediatric Cardiologist Tyler Logan.  Tyler is just as stubborn and pig-headed as his brother Brock when it comes to love.  Tyler swears he does not believe in the Logan curse that takes away the Logan women, but his actions say differently.<br />Jill Hershey agrees to help with a fundraiser to build a children's hospital wing.  Jill did not just take the job because  of her fundraising expertise, she also took it to help her heal from her past.  Who better to help her than Dr. Tyler Logan.<br />Tyler and Jill become close, but they have to overcome there pasts to have a future.  It was great to read about the other Logans in this book as well, Martina and Brock.  I really liked this series.  I just hope that we get to read more about the Coltranes.	2001-02-23
US	52437017	R2V00GPK63291Z	0373762925	548607646	Expecting His Child (Lone Star Families: The Logans) (Desire, 1292)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	:)	This is the last book in the series and it was one of the best.  We knew from the other two books about the Coltrane's and how much they hated the Logans and vice versa, but we never really got to know the Coltrane's until now.  Martina Logan had a fling with Noah Coltrane of all people.  It should come as no surprise that their families were not happy, but what ticked me off was Martina constantly referring to Noah not as the father of her baby, but as a man who contributed genetic material.  It takes an almost fatal accident for Martina to realize that she did not want anything to happen to her childs father.<br />From the moment that Noah found out Martina was pregnant he became a constant person in Martina's life.  Granted she did not make it easy for him, but he stuck in there.  So, whats the problem?  Their families hate each other and there is that stupid family curse.  Plus the reader is holding there breath the whole time waiting for Brock and Tyler to find out that baby sister Martina has set foot on Coltrane land.<br />Interesting, fun, and romantic is how I would describe this book.   This was my favorite and I would love to read more about the Coltranes.	2001-02-23
US	52437017	RNTRC68WAIUDI	0373059442	410725583	Cowboys Don't Quit (Code of the West) (Silhouette Desire, No 944)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	Luke Tanner is currently living his life hidden away on a mountain.  Luke is hiding away with his guilt over his best friend Keith's death.  Luke was Keiths stunt double on a movie, but Keith wanted to do his own stunt and died.  Luke is not the only one that thinks that he is to blame.  Keith's fiancee Jillan also blamed look for Keith's death.<br />Years later Jillan shows up at Luke's ranch wanting looks help.  Not only is Luke uncomfortable helping Jillian, but he is just plain uncomfortable being around her.  Luke has always had the hots for Jillian even when Keith was alive.  Luke wants to remain hidden away to wallow in his guilt, but Jillian has other plans for him.<br />This is a sad love story.  Jillian and Luke have to overcome the past to be able to deal with the future.  This story shows that life does go on.  I can not wait to read about the other two Tanner brothers.	2001-02-20
US	52437017	R3R2WDKB0IORP1	0373059574	587710278	Cowboy Takes A Lady (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	Tucker Lambert has agreed to let Sara Stewart stay at his ranch. His friends have convinced him that all this lady needs is some rest and time to think.  Tucker agreed figuring he could just ignore the beautiful woman staying in his guest house.  Tucker had not planned on Sara putting the moves on him.<br />Sara Stewart works in a hospital ER.  She is burned out and has turned to alcohol for comfort.  After making a fool out of herself with Tucker she decides to straighten her life out.  Sara sees a lot of pain in Tucker and is convinced that she can help him and herself.<br />Sara and Tucker are both stubborn individuals, but they do have an attraction towards each other.  There are a lot of obstacles standing in there way and just when you think things might work out something bad happens.  Sara and Tucker are both hurting and at certain points the story is very emotional, but well worth the time to read it.  A great book.	2001-02-20
US	52437017	R102SVLSUCOO6I	0373059256	973041030	Mysterious Mountain Man (Man Of The Month) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Jake Taggart is living alone on a Texas mountaintop.  No one bothers Jake and that is how he likes it.  Jake was there for a little over a year when people from his past came looking for him.<br />Rebecca Adams knew she would have to do whatever it took to get Jake out of isolation and back in the corporate office that he abandoned.  Rebecca has inherited her fathers company and things have not been going well.  Rebecca knows that the one man that could help her is the one man that her father had trained to take over the company Jake.  The only problem is that Jake quit for his own reasons and wants nothing to do with the company.<br />When Rebecca arrives in Texas, Jake shocks himself by allowing her to come to his home in the mountains where no one besides himself has ever stepped foot in.  Jake finds himself drawn to Rebecca and her problems with the company.  When Jake returns to the company he gets more than he asked for when he starts to fall in love with Rebecca, who turns out to be anything but the spoiled rich princess that he thought she was.<br />This is a simple love story with a great ending.	2001-02-20
US	52437017	R277E6THG1ZMT5	0373058837	191107003	Temptation Texas Style! (Man Of The Month, Sons Of Texas) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	This is the first Sons of Texas book that I have read.  I know that there are several that come before this and there are several that come after it and I plan to get them all.  I really enjoyed this book.  <br />Tony Callaway is a plain old rodeo cowboy destined to make it on his own.  His fathers family is rich, but Tony refuses there money and because he never knew his father growing up he refuses his father as well.<br />Christina O'Reilly comes along hoping to learn more about her family history.  Because she was an orphan herself she is interested in genealogy.  Christina is very different to say the least.  She has a van of 'odd' animals that she carts with her and she is very inexperienced.  Here she is in her twenties and has never been kissed.  <br />Tony at first thinks that Christina is odd, but soon finds himself falling for her.  Christina has a lot to learn and Tony is very interested in teaching her.<br />This story has intrigue, romance, and comedy.  There are several laugh out loud moments in this book.  It is a quick and fun read that I am sure lots of people will enjoy.	2001-02-20
US	52437017	R3NM0YT9WM02PQ	0373059388	99459026	Falcon'S Lair (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	:)	This was such an enjoyable book.  Ben Falcon is on his way home minding his own business when he realizes that someobody has been on his property and not only that, but they have driven over the side of the mountain.  Ben races to where the car is and pulls a very pretty woman to safety before the car explodes.  The only thing that she says is that she is looking for Ben Falcon, but that is all that she can remember.  Ben feels responsible for her, but at the same time he is angry because he knows that if this woman was looking for him than that must mean that his father sent her.  Ben hates his father and is sick of all the things that his father has done to get him to return to work at his fathers company.  Ben finds a burnt wallet and is able to determine that the womans name is Jennifer Falcon.  Ben is more mad than he thought possible.  Ben thinks his father sent his wife up to the mountains to lure Ben back to Texas, but the worst part is that Ben is sexually attracted to this woman.<br />This is just the tip of the iceberg.  After no response from Bens's father-Jennifer stays with Ben for awhile, and finds herself falling for him.  There is only one problem-when Jennifer gets her memory back, nothing is as it seems.  The romance and the mystery that follows is very interesting.  I couldn't put the book down.  There is one surprise after another and to to tell you anything else would ruin the story for someone else.  Buy it-you will like it.	2001-02-17
US	52437017	R3L8J8PQO29DE9	0373483864	267997515	Lone Star Christmas ... And Other Gifts	Books	3	17	24	N	N	:|	I have to admit that I was disappointed with this book.  The stories were supposed to be short and sweet, but to short in my opinion.  I specifically bought this book because I love the Hawk's Way series and wanted to read A Hawk's Way Christmas.  This featured Rolleen Whitlaw, one of Zach and Rebecca's adopted children.  Also featured is Galvin Talbot who was first introduced to us in Rolleen's sister Jewel's story 'The Virgin Groom.'  In this book we learn that Galvin is a widowed father and Rolleen is an unwed pregnant woman afraid to tell her parents the truth.  Rolleen and Gavin decide to pretend to be engaged over Christmas.  Rolleen figures at least that way Christmas is not spoiled for her family.  Gavin also has his reasons for helping Rolleen.  The whole story covers about a two week period.  I love the Whitelaws and was disappointed that there was not more to this story.  I still would not have missed reading this story about another Whitelaw child.<br />The rest of the stories are short and sweet as well.  For a short story they were still good.  I loved reading about Stony in 'Taming the Lone Wolf.'  The best parts were when he interacted with Rose.   I thought that it was hilarious when Rose told Stony that she did not like him and he said thats okay because I don't like you either.  Of course, Stony ends up falling in love with her.<br />If you have no expectations for in-depth stories, if you go into this book expecting short stories than you will probably enjoy reading this book by two great authors.	2001-02-16
US	52437017	R35Z3FE3A9OP4Y	0373483511	991070396	Virgin Groom  (Hawk'S Way)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	:)	Jewel Whitelaw was first introduced to us in her adopted parents book, Zach and Rebecca Whitelaw in The Disobediant Bride.  Jewel was in an accident in that book that left her without a family, scars on her face and parts of her body, and a limp.  Rebecca and Zach fell in love with her and was one of the first of many children that they adopted.  In this book we learn that Jewel has suffered even more as she grew up.  In her sister Cherry's book, The Temporary Groom we learn that Jewel was attacked by a boy as a teenager, but what we learn in this book was how brutal that attack was and that the one person that knows her secret is her long time best friend Mac.  <br />Readers of the Hawk's Way series will remember Mac by his given first name Pete.  Pete was one of the sick kids that came to Camp LittleHawk in The Disobediant Bride. Mac as he is now called is a great big football hero with a career ending injury.  Mac comes back to Hawk's Pride to 'recover' because he is sure he will play again.  Mac also wants to spend time with his best friend Jewel.  <br />Mac learns that Jewel has still not recovered from the attack.  Jewel will not let any man near her, but is somehow comfortable with Mac.  Jewel hopes Mac can help her overcome her anxiety around men, you know as a 'friendly' favor. Mac wants to help Jewel, but is afraid that she will find out his horrible secret-this stong football hero is also a virgin.<br />It is a wonderful story and it is great to see Jewel and Mac help each other in lots of different ways.  So many questions are raised.  Can Jewel help Mac realize his football career is over? Can Mac help Jewel get over her anxiety of men?  That is just the tip of the iceberg when they both realize that they have feelings for one another. <br />This is a great addition to the Hawk's Way series.  I was disappointed that this book along with Cherry's story did not include more of the rest of the Whitelaw family.  It is still a great read.	2001-02-16
US	52437017	R1CSPX8M6JSAUU	0373760043	771445543	Temporary Groom (Hawk'S Way) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	:)	This book from the Hawk's Way series is about Cherry Whitelaw, the last adopted child of Zach and Rebecca Whitelaw (from the book The Disobediant Bride).  Like all the other sets of siblings in the Hawk's Way series Zach and Rebecca's children are known in Texas as the Whitelaw brats.  Cherry always seems to be getting in trouble.  She hates to see the hurt and disappointment that she causes her parents, so when she gets expelled from school and almost attacked by her date she decides she does not want to go home.<br />Fortunately, Billy Stonecreek saves her from her would be attacker and offers to save her from her parents, by marrying her.  Billy is also known for his bad reputation, and his mother-in-law plans to use it to take away his twin daughters.  Billy needs a wife and Cherry thinks she needs some place to go other than her parents, so they marry.<br />If you have read any of the Hawk's Way series than you know that the Whitelaw men have tempers.  Cherry's dad Zach is no exception.  Zach is furious and tries to persuade Cherry to come home.  But, Cherry is determined to be a good wife and mother.  The ending is really good.  I would have liked to have heard about more of the Whitelaws from the other books and I really missed the labor day picnic that always occurs in every book, except this one.  It is still a great book to add to all the other Hawk's Way books.	2001-02-15
US	52437017	R21KCQ7KD9RWVZ	0373058969	709004087	Headstrong Bride (Hawk'S Way) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	:)	I give this book a five just because it is in the Hawk's Way series.  Callen is the daughter of Garth and Candy Whitelaw from The Wranger and the Rich girl.  We were also introduced to Callen in her brother Falcon's book The Unforgiving Bride.  Callen gets engaged to her fathers neighbor Sam Longstreet, who was also introduced briefly in Falcon's book.  Callen's family tries to discourage her from marrying Sam.  Callens father Garth tells her that he is just after her money and that he is a dead beat, but Callen has already called off two engagements to two other men because her dad was right about them.  Callen refuses to admit she is wrong this time and goes through with the wedding even though she has doubts.<br />Sam is only marrying Callen to get revenge on her father Garth.  Sam blames Garth for his own fathers death.  Sam plans on showering Callen with love and at the same time driving a wedge between her and her father.  Sam has no intention of falling in love with Callen.<br />Finally, it is time for Callen to chose between her father and her husband.  Personally, I would have liked for her to dump Sam a long time ago.  He was driven by anger through most of the book and his motives were not pure, so it is hard to feel anything for that character.  This was probably my least favorite Hawk's Way story out of all of them, but it was still a good book.  I am sure that those that read the series will enjoy it even if they like or don't like the character of Sam.	2001-02-14
US	52437017	R2OI896A7SM34X	0373058780	664091778	The Unforgiving Bride (Hawk's Way) (Silhouette Desire #878)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Falcon Whitelaw son of Garth and Candy Whitelaw (from the book The Wrangler and the Rich Girl)never thought that he would get married.  Until one day he saw the most perfect woman, but there was just one problem she was married.  Falcon notices that her husband is someone that he played football with in school, so Falcon introduces himself.  Falcon and the man agree to go for drinks that afternoon at a local bar.  The man dies that night when he leaves the bar drunk.<br />Falcon wants to offer help to his widow Mara and her little girl Susannah.  Only Falcon discovers Mara blames him for her husbands death and tells him she hated him.  Falcon leaves thinking he will never see Mara again only to have her show up at his doorstep three years later.  Mara needs money and she is desperate, so she asks Falcon.  Susannah is sick.  Falcon learns that most of his money is gone, but he could marry Mara and his insurance would pay for it.  Mara hates him, but knows it is her only choice. Susannah is the link that holds these two together.  They both care for her so much.  Mara is disgusted when she finds herself drawn to Falcon.  Falcon and Mara find themselves getting closer and closer.  Each of them wondering what is going to happen to the &quot;marriage&quot; if Susannah dies. <br />Some parts of the book are truely sad, but there is a lot of love and happiness in spite of it.  It is another great Hawk's Way book.  The best part is that we get to stay in touch with all of the other characters that we have read about in the series.	2001-02-14
US	52437017	R380UZ959O47JX	0373057857	706747746	Cowboy And The Princess (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	:)	Another Hawk's Way story.  This is not the best one in the series, but it is still good.  Faron Whitelaw finds out the truth about his parents, he was the result of an affair that his mother had.  If you read the other books than you will understand how close the Whitelaws are, and how much it hurt Faron to realize his father was someone else.  Faron found out who he was when his birth father died and left Faron half of his estate.  The other half belongs to Faron's stepmother.  Only Faron's idea of a stepmother is not what he gets when he meets Belinda.  She is young and beautiful.  He figured Belinda for a gold digging princess, but for him to know the truth means that he will have to know the type of man that his birth father was.  Belinda and Faron find themselves drawn to each other.  They also have a little help from Farons &quot;new&quot; grandmother.  There is a lot going on in this story, but it is a quick and easy read.  Another Whitelaw is always worth reading about.	2001-02-13
US	52437017	RSCU6BF9S85TJ	0373057911	384371922	Wrangler And The Rich Girl (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	:)	Garth Whitelaw is the oldest of the Hawk's Way Whitelaws.  Garth met Candy three years earlier when she came to the ranch with her father.  Candy was only seventeen and head over heels in love with Garth.  Garth was much older and pushed her away.  Now here she is three years later, a little more grown up, tougher, and a lot more of a woman in Garths opinion.  He agrees to ler her stay at Hawk's Way so that Garth can teach her everything he knows about the business.  Garth makes it clear that he would like Candy in his bed, but nothing more.  Garth has a bit of a rough edge that sometimes made me cring, but we also find out why.  Garth is a hardened man after seeing what his parents did to each other.  We find out a lot of interesting information on the Whitelaw parents that explains so much.  I look back at Garths behavior in the previous books and now I understand his extreme behavior.  I am not saying what Garth does is right, but understandable.  Candy realizes she is still in love with Garth but she has to convince Garth that he is capable of love.  Another great Hawk's Way story.	2001-02-13
US	52437017	ROYAOYX7YPIEU	037305842X	21470312	Cowboy Takes A Wife (Hawk'S Way) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	:)	In this Hawk's Way book the Whitelaws branch out.  This is the story of Faron Whitelaw's step brother Carter.  We were introduced to Carter in 'The Wrangler and the Rich Girl' when he was interested in purchasing his fathers estate.  This story picks up on the exact night that he came to town.  Desiree was also first intorduced in the previous book when she came to Faron and Belindas party, she was the young woman that had a scar on her face.<br />Desiree asks Carter to be her husband and in return she will sign over half of her estate.  Carter is looking for somewhere to put down roots and since he can not have his fathers estate he thinks Desiree's offer sounds good. Desiree and Carter get married a week later. Carter does not consider that he will now have to be a father to Desiree's daughter Nicky.  Carter has a hard time with the little girl because of his own secret past.  Carter also wants to see if Desiree can love him for who he is and does not tell her that he is rich.  Desiree also has secrets of her own.  She has not told Carter about the abusive ex husband that gave her the scars on her face and body, or that he is getting out of prison and that is why she wanted to get married.  Desiree figures that her ex will leave her alone if Carter is there, but she turns out to be really wrong.  Despite there pasts they have to try to decide if they want to open there hearts to each other. They also have to deal with all of the secrets between them.  This is a great edition to the Hawk's Way series.	2001-02-13
US	52437017	R2DC9YT206985N	0373057792	227550908	The Rancher and the Runaway Bride (Silhouette Desire, No 779)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	:)	Tate Whitelaw is the youngest of the Hawk's Way Whitelaws and she is also the only girl.  Tate has three very overprotective big brothers.  At the age twenty-three Tate runs away and right into the arms of Adam Philips.  Adam was first introduced to us in Honey and the Hired Hand, when he was in love with Honey, the woman who eventually married Tates brother Jesse.  Tate does not know that Jesse, the brother that she lost touch with, is living at the neighboring ranch. Adam decides that if he tells Tate than she might run off, so he keeps that info to himself.  Adam tries to ignore the sexual feelings that he has for Tate, but eventually he gives in.  Tate goes in town for a doctors visit and on her way out she runs into Honey Whitelaw her brothers new bride.  Tate invites them over for supper.  Only Jesse shows up  mad as heck to get Tate away from Adam.  Jesse is sure that Adam is using her.  She refuses to go, but Jesse returns with Tates other two brothers, a shotgun, and a priest.  The brothers fully intend to have Adam make an honest woman of Tate.  It is hilarious. I love how protective her brothers are of her.  Adam has been hurt in the past and is not sure if he can love and trust Tate.  Adam is sure that Tate has been involved with one of the hired hands.  Adam has to get over his issues and decide if he can make a future with Tate.  I really enjoyed this book, it has been one of my favorites of the Hawks' Way series.	2001-02-13
US	52437017	R1WZELKJH8085T	0373762429	64950640	Killian's Passion  (Secrets!) (Silhouette Desire, 1242)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	:)	Killian's Passion is the last Book in the secrets series.  I loved all of the books.  Ian who finally showed up at the end of book two is in town for his best friend Nicks wedding.  Ian is staying at a cabin in the mountains and finds himself being watched by a pretty female.  Ian is quick to catch this woman in the act of spying and drags her back to his cabin and ties her up.  Because of Ian's line of work he must know who this woman is and what she wants.  I won't give away his job since that has been kept a secret in the other two books until now.<br />This woman, Cara, is hired to find the grandson of a wealthy woman she is business partners with.  Cara knows that she has to tell Ian the truth, that he is that grandson, and does so.  Ian is upset and tells her he could care less and tells Cara to get lost.  Only one problem, for some reason somebody is after Cara.  Ian finds himself her protector.<br />There were several moments were I found myself laughing out loud at the stunts that these two pull with each other.  They are both stubborn and pig headed.  They are also both drawn to each other.<br />Nick and Luck, his best friends, who have there own books were both very much apart of this story.  It was great to read about the three guys together for a change.  In the previous two books Ian was &quot;away&quot; working so we only got to see the bond between Nick and Lucas, but in this book Ian is very much apart of the group.  <br />This story is about friendship, family, and love.  There is also romance, comedy, and mystery.  It was a nice end to the series.  I am just disappointed that it is over.	2001-02-09
US	52437017	R11H55Z3478PZ1	0373763328	999974196	Night Wind's Woman (Silhouette Desire, 1332)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Shane Night Wind lives on a rescue.  This is a ranch for wild cats.  He came to the rance to live with his father five years ago when his wife left him and took their son with her saying he belonged to another man.  Shane was devestated.  <br />Kelly Baxter shows up to stay at the cabin that her late granfather lived in near Shane's ranch.  Kelly is pregnant with a child that her boyfriend does not want.  Kelly is at the cabin to think and relax.  <br />Kelly and Shane become fast friends.  I really liked the fact that there pasts were not dragged out of them piece by piece throughout the book.  Instead, the were up front with each other right away, so they dealt with their feelings and problems together.  Shane is afraid of getting close to this woman and child and than having them leave him.  He is constantly thinking about the birth father, who is sure will want to be apart of his daughters life.<br />This book is all about family and love.  I really enjoyed reading about Shane and Kelly and their families.  This is a straight-forward book about love and what it means to be honest and to trust another human being.	2001-02-07
US	52437017	R20DP65HQ9PCGG	0373059361	588069447	Rancher's Wife (Silhouette Desire, No 936)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	:)	Day Kincaid has a problems.  His ex wife is trying to get custody of their daughter.  Day is convinced that his ex is an unfit mother.  Day's ex is an actress who only thinks of herself.<br />Angelique has her own problems.  She is an actress that had lost her passion for acting.  Angel really wants her privacy back.  There is also the problem of a stalker.   So, when Angel gets an invitation from an old friend to come spend some time at a ranch-Angel is thrilled.  She will get a much needed vacation and hopefully the stalker will lose interest in her.<br />Day is ticked that his sister invited Angel to stay at the ranch. She knows how he feels about strangers at his ranch especially now with the custody suit.  His sister also knows how he feels about actresses.<br />Day and Angel become close.  The sexual tension between them is so obvious.  Angel agrees to marry Day so he has a better chance at winning his daughter.  The problem is now they both have more trouble to worry about-they are falling for each other.  Can the custody suit and the stalker threaten there relationship or bring them closer.  It is a real test of love and family.  A great read.	2001-02-05
US	52437017	R1QVV6S4LKIB4O	037305937X	292932723	Disobedient Bride (Man Of The Month, Hawk'S Way) (Silhouette Desire)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	:)	Zach Whitelaw wants children so bad he can taste it.  There is only one problem, he needs a wife.  Zach does not want a wife, but he knows he needs one to have the kids that he wants.  So, in his mind the most logical unemotional thing to do is to advertise in the newspaper for one.  <br />Rebecca Littlewolf knew Zach when she was younger and has always had a crush on the man.  Even after not seeing him for six years, she was still in love.  So, when she sees his ad in the paper she figures that it is the best way to get him in her life.  She figures that she can always get him to fall in love with her.<br />Zach only has one condition for his new bride, she has to be pregnant within a year or he will divorce her and in exchange for this arrangement he will help her start a children's camp for cancer victims.<br />As the year unfolds it proves to be heartbreaking, heartwarming, and emotional.  Can there lives survive the crisis that they face.  This is a great story with an emotional ending.	2001-02-05
US	52437017	RK4NL4KZWYS98	0373763212	15471838	The Dakota Man (Silhouette Desire, No. 1321 / Man of the Month)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	:|	Maggie was dumped by her fiancee two weeks before there wedding, so she has trust issues when it comes ot men.  Mitch was dumped by his fiancee after she saw him comforting his assistant, which was purely inncocent, so Mitch has a thing about trust.  <br />Maggie leaves her big city life to get away and find some peace, but when money runs low she decides to get a job.  Mitch needs someone to fill in for his assistant while she is on maternity leave.  Maggie gets the job.<br />The heat between Maggie and Mitch is undeniable, but can they each come to terms with there pasts so that they can have a future?<br />They story is okay.  I did not find it real exciting.  I wish that the ending had been a bit better.  If your looking for a quick read, nothing real gripping or exciting than this book will do.	2001-02-04
US	52437017	R2G6PGX3E831KL	0373036396	502127662	Baby Discovery (Bachelor Dads)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	:)	Zane Broderick is the last guy in the series for Rebecca Winters. Late one night while checking the bullet train that he and his friends have been working on, he finds a baby.  Out in the middle of a snow storm and in the middle of the tracks was this baby that was about an hour old.  Zane was angry at the person who could do this and frantic to get the baby to the hospital.  The picture that Rebecca Winters paints about the things that could have happened to this baby make me just as mad at the person that could do this as Zane was.<br />Zane is the good guy that takes the baby to the hospital, but becomes the suspect.  His friends Alik and Dominic rush to his side, but it is not necessary.  Zane has found a supporter in the nurse that first helped with the baby when it was brought into the ER.<br />The nurse, Meg, becomes attached to this baby that Zane named Johnny and would love nothing more than to be its mother since she herself can not have children.  There is only one problem-Zane wants to adopt this baby.  <br />There is one simple answer-they should get married.  But that solution is anything but simple.  What will Meg's family think?  What will Zane's friends think?  What if they can't work out a happy marriage?  What if it becomes a marriage of more than name only?  What if the birth mother cames back?<br />It is a lot to consider and it makes the story that much more interesting.  Since this was the last book in the series I would have liked to have read more about Zane and his friends and what was in store for their future.	2001-02-01
US	52437017	R1NJ88HI8U6ZQL	0373763131	591942100	In Name Only (Texas Grooms) (Desire, 1313)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	:)	I admit that I found it odd at first when at a diner Shelby walks up to a complete stranger and asks him to marry her, and Troy agrees.  Later on, however, we learn about Shelby and Troy and the things in there lives that would bring them to marry each other.  Shelby is an unwed pregnant preacher's daughter.  Her family has already had to suffer a scandal thanks to Shelby's sister.  Troy has also experienced pain in his past, but he is also known for being a good, honest, generous man.  Of course, Troy does not see himself that way.  Troy does not think that he deserves the love of a woman like Shelby.<br />But, how long can they go on being &quot;married&quot; without developing feelings for each other.  Some of the scenes in this book are very vivid and very hot. This story had everything: romance, passion, and even comedy.  When Shelby decides to help Troy out of his boots-the scene made me laugh out loud.  You will just have to read it yourself to understand.  If you have a couple of hours to spare you wont be disappointed.	2001-01-27
US	52437017	R2T62USPYE3QUL	0373036124	785749011	Marrying Margot (Beaufort Brides)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	:|	This book sets up the story of the Beaufort Brides series.  Margot, Georgia, and Shleby are the sisters that the author focuses on.  In Marrying Margot the sisters grandmother dies and before she does she tells Margot that she drove the girls father away that he did not abandon them.  This is the mystery that surrounds all three stories-the hunt for there father and the truth.<br />Margot was married for seven months, but after she miscarried, Rand and she split.  Five years later, after the death of her grandmother Rand shows up to have Margot sign divorce papers.  Rand did not know about Margot's grandmother dying. He waits to give her the papers. In the mean time he agrees to help her finalize her grandmothers things and look for clues in her grandmothers papers about her father.<br />Together, talking, for the first time in five years they realize that they were victims of Margots grandmothers meddling.  They also realize that Margots parents were victims as well.  The question is can Margot and Rand save their marriage?  Do they even want to?<br />The mystery surrounding the girls father is not solved in this book, but the story between Rand and Margot is touching.  They have a lot to work out.  This book focuses on their marriage and whether or not they can start over.	2001-01-25
US	52437017	RSJ98GDMXQSK0	0373036205	57794634	Georgia's Groom (Beaufort Brides)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Georgia's Groom is the end to the Beaufort Brides series.  Georgia picks up where her sisters left off in the search for her father.  There are three potential candidates, who could be Sam, her father.  Her two brother-in-laws each plan to talk to one of the candidates and Georgia is to take the last one.  <br />In Texas, Georgia tries to call Sam, but the man in charge of Sam's company (Dev) tells her that she needs to stay away from his stepfather and stop these stupid accusations or he will have her arrested.  Georgia is not one to give up, so when she learns that Sam's estated needs a garder she fakes a resume, changes her name and accent, and applies for the job.  As the Gardner she gets to stay in an apartment above the garage.  There is only two problems: 1-Sam is away and will not be home for nine days, 2-Georgia is expected to get the gardening done before Dev's parents get home and Georgia is a nurse not a gardner.<br />Gardening is not the only problem that Georgis has.  It seems that she and Dev are getting closer to each other as well.  But what if this Sam is her father that means she is getting involved with his stepson.  She feels guilty for lying to Dev, but she knows that she has to.  The most important things is to be able to see Sam and find out if he is her father.  <br />There is a lot at stake in this book.  Before everything blow up in Georgia's face the author tries to really explore the feelings between Dev and Georgia.  The ending will make everyone smile.	2001-01-25
US	52437017	R3BD8PKWL9P888	0373036167	967040566	Mother for Mollie (Beaufort Brides)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Shelby needs to find a private investigator that will look for her father the she has not seen in over twenty years.  No one else will take the case, or they want to much money.   Finally, Shelby goes to see Patrick.  She soon discovers Patrick is a single dad to Mollie and that his life is in chaos right now.  Mollie has been kicked out of yet another daycare for being late and has gone through almost evey babysitter and housekeeper he can find.  Mollie is a four year old spoiled child with no manners.  Because of Mollie Patrick has no time to take Shelby's case.<br />Shelby comes up with a plane to marry Patrick so that Mollie can use the daycare in her office building and live with them so that she can do the cooking and the cleaning.  In return, Patrick has to look for her father. <br />This plan is soon put into motion.  The story is whether they become a family in the true sense of the word.  Although the story of them becoming a family is sweet.  The story of Shelby's missing father goes unanswered.  Although, there are three books in this series, one before and one after this one.  So, of course, if you want to find out what happens you will have to read the next book, which was the authors point, right?	2001-01-24
US	52437017	R12UFPBOWKX8P1	0373036108	741407199	Project: Daddy (Baby Boom)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	:)	Mac has been hurt badly in his past.  He was betrayed by his best friends, the town turns against him, he lost everything but his house, and his fiancee leaves taking everything in the house.  Mac is a very bitter and angry person.<br />Now, Mac's sister dumps her kids off at Mac's so she can run off with her boyfriend.  Mac has to hire a nanny so that he can keep working.  Paris shows up being very bold to claim this job.  She has also been hurt in her past and now she needs a job more than ever.<br />Mac gives her a chance to be nanny, but she ends up being a lot more to both the kids and him.  Mac is not sure if he wants more. Paris wants to help him let go of all the bitterness that he has, but to do that will she betray him?  Paris knows that the town is off limits, if she needs anything she must go to the next town.  But, when does Paris ever listen?  This is a very light romantic story.	2001-01-24
US	52437017	R2NMYXWKA63HJ2	0373121563	195129009	Unexpected Husband (Wedlocked)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	:(	Lydia is concerned about the man that her sister is seeing.  She is afraid that he is going to hurt her, so she goes to speak to Joe herself.  The first thing that he asks her is if she wants to sleep with him.  She knows that her sister Daisy should stay away from this character, but her sister informs her that her biological clock is ticking and she wants Joe to be the father of her child.   Lydia is shocked, but tells her sister to try to play hard to get instead of falling in his lap.  Her sister agrees and both sisters say goodbye.  Lydia is going to an Australlian Cattle Ranch to temporarily fill in for the vet there and Daisy is going on a music tour.<br />Lydia gets to the ranch only to discover that Joe owns half of it and that he has decided to stay on while she is there.  He has made it very clear that she is the sister that he wants.  Lydia has all kinds of obstacles in her way, her sister for one and her past for another. <br />The story of Joe and Lydia is strange.  There are a lot of layers to this very short story.  Interesting, Exciting, no not really. Mostly the reader is just peeling back the different layers, examining them, and than tossing them aside until the next one is there.  The reader can see the end result, its just a matter of getting there.  I found no real reason to like the characters. I found Lydia to be bossy and inconsiderate at times.  I thought Joe was a wimp at times.  He was to quick to apologize for everything and he always seemed to give into Lydia. I am not sure I would recommend investing time and money into this book.	2001-01-23
US	52437017	R32ACH7EHEGOWM	0373168608	486032933	Loving A Lonesome Cowboy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	Ethan Slade has been widowed for some time now and he has been living like a monk.  He wouldnt even live in the house that he share with his late wife.  Than the unexpected happens and his sister sends him a telegram telling him that she is sending her two daughters to Ethan's for two weeks.  Ethan is shocked that his sister would give him no notice that she is sending her children to him in about two days.  Ethan hires a woman (Sara)to come in and clean the house that has set empty for so long, so that it is ready for his nieces.  He did not expect the woman and her daughter to get under his skin.  Both Ethan and Sara have pasts that haunt them, but the question is can they learn to open up,trust, and love again.  This is a good story that I was sad to see end.  When I got to the last page I thought no, thats it.  I agree with the previous reviewer-I would love to hear more about Sam and Ethan's sister.  This book will definetly leave you wanting more.	2001-01-20
US	52437017	R142D3A8C6Y4AG	0373168543	638559081	Baby Christmas	Books	3	0	0	N	N	:|	It took 250 pages to write about 5 days.  It starts on Christmas Eve when Rachel finds a baby in the manger and takes it in.  Through a varity of odd events, not Social Service nor the police come get the baby.  Rachel and the boss of Condo Crisis Control Joe, who was cleaning up water at the Condo were Rachel was staying, decide to take care of the baby.  Before this night Rachel never knew Joe and vice versa.  Over five days we learn about Rachel's tragic past and Joe's stupid mistakes in his younger days.  On Christmas Day we meet Joe's huge family.  Finally, social services comes to get the baby because they discover Rachel is unmarried.   Now with the baby back with social services, can Rachel and Joe have a future?  We finally learn more about the childs birth parent which is supossed to be a shock, but it becomes clear earlier on in the book, so it is actually no surprise at all. There was so much in this story that was irrelevant only making the book seem longer with not enough depth.   This 250 page book seems a bit long to cover 5 days.	2001-01-19
US	52437017	R3JAMH35YIISSV	037319496X	830895741	Just One Kiss (Silhouette Romance Ser. , No. 1496)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	:(	This was an odd book.  It starts off with a two year old (Nathan) telling his friends in baby talk (that the adults are not supposed to understand) that he is going to get a daddy while on vacation with his mom (Marissa).  So they go on vacation, with his mom clueless to his plans, he grabs a jogger on the beach, and the jogger (Jack) breaks his leg and fingers.  Marissa feels responsible to help him out, so she does.  Nathan starts calling the man daddy right away.  After a week they are both in love with the other, but do not want to admit it because of there past heartaches, especially Jack.   <br />The story itself is basically about the things that Marissa does for Jack, and the past that is haunting Jack.  And it is all wrapped up way to fast at the end.  Just when you think that the story is going to start its over.  There was so much more that the author could have explored with these characters and it was disappointing that she didn't.	2001-01-15
US	52437017	R17KBF9S9GZ2A8	0373121520	990942589	To Mend A Marriage	Books	3	6	6	N	N	:|	Often in a review a refer to the cat-and-mouse game between males and females.  They both love each other, but refuse to admit it. This book has that, but with a twist.  In, To Mend A Marriage, Gemini and Nick are married in name only.  Before their marriage Nick was engaged to Gemini's twin and Gemini was dating Nick's brother.  However, when Nick and Gemini discovered that there siblings were involved with each other--Nick and Gemini decided to marry each other and never speak to their siblings again.  It worked for fourteen months until Gemini's sister dumps her baby on Gem's doorstep.  That is where the story begins.  The story itself is okay and it could probably have been written without the baby.  I think that the baby is just supposed to add some interest.  I have to admit that the only thing that really hurt this story was the insecurity of Gemini and Nick.  It got to the point that I was disgusted with the both of them.  There insecurity totally consumes the story and I think that it really hurts it.  Otherwise the basic concept of these two people trying to make there marriage be in more than name only and their reasons for getting married in the first place make for a interesting read.	2001-01-15
US	52437017	RN50VB0TXSY68	0373833601	285152575	Madeleine's Cowboy (Authors in the Spotlight)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	:|	Madeleine needs a vacation after taking care of her grandfather until his recent death.  She heads out west, but is picked up by the wrong person and goes home with Stuart who thinks he is picking up a housekeeper.  After seeing how desperate Stuart and his daughter were Madeleine decides to give up her vacation and stay on at Stuarts instead of going to the dude ranch like she intended.<br />Madeleine and Stuart develop feelings for one another, but neither wants to admit it.<br />The book starts out great, but goes down hill from there.  The middle of the book is about the things that they all do together. It is not until the last few pages that things start to wrap up and just like that its over.  The story had a lot of potential, but fell short at the end.	2001-01-14
US	52437017	R2ZBCM8GO82GHX	037322592X	932910211	Alias Mommy (Secret Identity) (Intrigue, 592)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	:)	This book offers both mystery and romance.  I was surprised at how much I actually liked this book.  Polly is a very delicate woman who would do anything for her child. Reeve is a man that has lost so much and is willing to do whatever it takes to help Polly and her baby.  Some books have either romance or mystery and rarely both.  This book has both and so much more.  I enjoyed this book and can not wait to read more by Linda Johnston.	2001-01-14
US	52437017	R3N2KUUBUC6QO0	0373833628	955298668	One and One Makes Three	Books	5	3	3	N	N	:)	I liked Muriel Jensen's book One and One Makes Three for lots of different reasons.  the main reason is that most books I have read are about the two main characters both madly in love with one another, but they just will not admit it.  That is not the case with this book.  There is no cat-and-mouse games.<br />Bobbi and Sin spent a night together after their best friends get married and Bobbi gets pregnant.  Sin does not found out about it until several months later when they meet up with each other at a party and Bobbi starts to have complications and Sin rushes her to the hospital.  Sin figures things out and than immediately &quot;takes over.&quot;<br />Some of Sins tactics are a little hard to swallow.  He basically kidnaps her and takes her into seclusion.  Now comes the rough part of them admitting their feelings and becoming a family.  Sin is every womans dream husband and father.  It is a light romantic fun book about two people coming together to make a family.	2001-01-13
US	52437017	R2JN0Q1RNMA6QV	037324374X	429528505	Beloved Bachelor Dad	Books	4	2	2	N	N	:)	Beloved Bachelor Dad started out slow, but I later realized that it only built the characters and made them more interesting.  <br />Nora is a great student teacher with a not so great past.  Nora was raised by a man who was abusive to her mother, and Nora herself almost married a man who was emotionally and verbally abusive.  For Nora, it is hard to trust others.<br />One of Nora's students Trent Brody likes his teacher so much that he wants her as more than a teacher--he would love for her to be his mom.  Trent sets out to bring his father and teacher together.<br />Ray, Trent's dad, likes Nora.  Ray even flirts and dates Nora, but is unsure if he wants anything permanent.<br />Bringing together these three is like pulling teeth.  Its a long slow process.  Its a great story about love and family and the craftiness of a child.	2001-01-12
US	52437017	R18ZAC84NRIYZS	0373194900	104572808	Mixing Business...With Baby (Stork Express) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	:)	I read the other two books in the series and thought that they were great and I have to admit that this one pleased me as well.   Catrina and Rick have both been hurt by &quot;fathers&quot; in the past.  Rick is not sure he ever wants to be a husband or a father.  The people that work at his company are his family and they adore him and all he gives.  Catrina was raised by her mother after her father walked out, her sister was married to a jerk, and Catrina herself married someone who treated her like a slave and left after their daughter was born.  Catrina is in desperate need for a job and with the help of a &quot;woman friend&quot; gets a job at Ricks company.  Rick is instantly attracted, but does not know how invloved he wants to get.  The first real scenes that he has with Catrina's daughter Heather are hilarious.  <br />There is also the character of Gracie, Rick's mom.  She is a special person in her sons life.  She wants him to be married and more than anything she wants to be a grandma.  She plays an important role in the story as well.  Her wisdom is invaluable to both Rick and Catrina.<br />If you want a good story about love with some occasional laughs than read this book.	2001-01-11
US	52437017	RIXYL29IEWP3N	0373243707	895638275	Unexpectedly Expecting ! (Lone Star Canyon)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Not real Exciting!	This is the first book of Susan Mallery's that I have read and I have to admit I was disappointed.  Most romance stories lately are about a man and a woman who are in love with each other, but either one or the other or both will not admit it.  Like I said this is included in most books lately, but is usually not the main focus of the book.  However, it is the main focus of this book.  I did not feel that the real story started until the last couple of chapters. <br />Nora has been hurt by two men in her life and is reluctant to trust another man.  Stephen has suffered heartache in his past and is reluctant to love anyone again.  One night that they both let down their guard leads to Nora getting pregnant.  Now they have to decide what that means for there future. Thats it--that is the sum of the book.<br />There were several times that the author used the same expressions over and over.  For example, if I heard Stephen say that &quot;We have to talk&quot; one more time I was going to scream.<br />I hate being so negative in a review.  I generally love most books that I read, but I felt that the possibilities for this book were great and I could not help but be disappointed at the end.  If you are looking for a basic read to pass the time than go ahead and give this book a try.  Heck, you may find something I don't.  I am not giving up I plan on reading another of Susan Mallery's books.  I just hope it is a bit more exciting.	2001-01-10
US	52437017	R15I59JWJLLTVH	037383361X	108456871	Her Sister's Baby	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic!	Finally, a book that explores the in-depth feelings of its characters.  Colleen is a divorced mom with two children.  Colleen loves her sister Sheila with all her heart, but her sister is unable to carry a child to term.  Colleen offers her the greatest gift of all-to carry a child for her.  Sheila and her husband Michael are delighted when Colleen announces that she is pregnant.  Sadly, not long after Sheila is killed in a car wreck.  Colleen stuggles with the loss of her sister and realizes that the baby inside her is still half hers and wants to keep it. Besides the gift was for her sister not her brother-in-law.  Colleen does not realize that Michael intends to fight for his baby.  The story that unfolds from there will make you smile and cry.  Everyone's feelings are explored - Michael, Colleen, and Colleen's two other children.  The ending is very heart warming. I can not wait to read more books by Janice Kay Johnson.  This was the first and will not be the last.	2001-01-08
US	52437017	R1GUFG126LMZSP	0373650663	657786635	Prescription: Baby (Maitland Maternity, Book 5)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	eight dimensional book	Alright, I have read lots of books that were a part of a series and I knew that Prescription: Baby was part of the Maitland Maternity series.  The problem is that in most series when you read a book they mention other characters to get you interested, so that you read the other books, but one book alone is a story in itself.  However, with this book there was way to much going on.  Several different stories were mentioned that I am positive can be found in other books in the series.  For example, there was mention of an abandoned baby and the characters that are involved in that story and there was a mention of a murder and the characters that are associated with that.  By mention, I mean that there are several pages dedicated to these other stories.  In this book it was discussed as 'gossip' at the clinic.  So, if you are not planning on reading any of the other books in this series than this is probably not the book for you. If, however, you are planning on reading the series than you will probably enjoy reading this tale of the love between Ford and Katie and the baby that brings them together.  This is not the only focus of this book.  There is also the story about these two characters families and questions that rise about paternity.  Like I said before there is so much that goes on in this book.  If you are looking for a straight forward one-dimensional story you will not find it here.  This is more of a three dimensional or even eight dimensional book.	2001-01-03
US	52437017	R3SIQK0XPJVMCR	0373036388	578001949	Baby At Bushman'S Creek (Outback Brides) (Romance, 3638)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Outback Brides	Same basic concept of man and woman meeting and not admitting that they have feelings for one another when we, the readers, know that they are madly in love.  Clare is a city girl who goes to the outback to find the father of her sisters baby.  Clare promised her sister before she died that she would find this man. When Clare gets to the Outback she does not find Jack, who is out of town, but finds his brother Gray.  Clare and Gray live together and take care of the baby while Jack is trying to be found.  They both love each other, but refuse to admit it.   The story is basically about their feelings for one another and their stubborness to admit that those feelings exist.  I knew nothing about the Outback and felt the same way that Clare did.  Clare could not see herself living there on a regular basis and leaving behind the city life.  It was an interesting book.	2001-01-01
US	52437017	R2RWE11FDDQZ8O	0821764888	375267968	Cookies And Kisses (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Light romantic, full enjoyment	I was delighted with this book.  It was funny and sweet.  For once it wasn't centered around a baby or sex.  Although, eventually the book had both.  It was romantic to see the simplicity and love that goes into building a family.  Neil is lonely and Taylor is the perfect friend and a great mother figure for Neil's kids.  The Kids love Taylor, the town loves Taylor.  Taylor is in love with Neil, but he wants to keep it just friends because he has been hurt badly by his ex-wife.  Taylor is a very perceptive woman and understands Neil's pain and does not play any games, although it is hard for her not to show how much she loves him.  The town, Neil's kids, even the dog Ollie loves Taylor.  It was a lot of fun to see if Neil can conquer his fears to love Taylor back the way that she deserves.  The cookies were a good touch.  Taylor bakes cookis and is good at it.  Even I was wanting to try them and was delighted to find the recipe in the back of the book.  This is a great book that will indeed warm the heart.	2000-12-31
US	52437017	R3MU2NFDHT6BZ9	0373243731	631617304	Not - So - Secret Baby (Stork Express)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable	Believe it or not I read Baby of Convenience about a month ago and than today I read The Not-So-Secret Baby.  I did not realize that they were 3 different stories, but based on sisters.  I was truly delighted.  The Not-So-Secret Baby was a great book.  Not only did it involve a child, but it actually involved that childs feelings about a new woman in his fathers life and a new baby on the way.  A one night thing that produced a child brought Susan and Jarod together, but the story is about how they deal with that and try to come together as a family.  At the same time Jarod has to try to get past the death of his wife and learn to open up and love again.  His son Danny loves Susan and has to get over his fear over her leaving him like his mother did.  It was truly a great book.   I loved that the last paragraph brings the sisters and their families together.  Although, I was a bit thrown by the mention of Lauras kids from the first book and I could be wrong, but in Baby of Convenience Laura's son was named Jamie and she was expecting a daughter, but in this book her son is Bobby and she has another son and not a daughter.  To me, these little details are important, but it was only one sentence.   I just purchased Catrina's story, the last sister of this bunch, and I can not wait to read it.	2000-12-31
US	52437017	R1J3B7GPW059H9	0380813165	416358899	A Great Catch	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Best Book Ever!	I have wrote reviews about books being good and given them 5 stars, but boy I didn't know what a good book was until I read A Great Catch.  This could have been just about a love story between two people with a past, but it was so much more than that.  There were a dozen stories going on in this book that all tied together.  The mystery was Excellent and helped define the characters.  Instead of it being a simple mystery of trying to figure out 'who is behind the threatening notes' it became more about 'what the notes mean' and none of the mystery took away from the powerful and hot love story between Lucas and Tessa.  If anything the mystery added to it.  All of the characters in this book were well written, even the crew on the boat.  This is one darn fine book that I will enjoy reading again and again.	2000-12-24
US	52437017	RZ7OM95PAYHU0	0821766694	308085607	Ask Me Again (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Truely Romantic	Who would have guessed that Patience would fall for her ex-boyfriends college roommate.  It was great to see that you could be so wrong about a person until you actually give them a chance.  When Patience first met Jace she thought he was boring and basically a nerd, but ten years later she realizes her mistake and the love story that unfolds is so realistic--it has good times and bad times.  The ending was so perfect.  It will make you laugh and cry at how truely romantic some people can be.  I will admit that these two characters at first seemed so opposite, but they love each other and are willing to work with each other to make the differences seem not all that important.  If you want to cozy up with a really great romantic love story with a few twists than I strongly suggest that you get this book.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	RJPUVBWXBZ69G	0373225946	914805913	Lullaby and Goodnight (The Sutton Babies)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romantic Thriller	I have read Little Boys Blue and Lullaby and Goodnight was a great book to continue that mystery surrounding the Sutton family and it even makes the other book better, because it gives us the link.  The link to all the trouble that surrounds the Sutton family, but this book is not just about the &quot;mystery&quot;-it is so much more.  The relationship between Rafe and Rhianna is thrilling in itself.  I loved seeing it play out and unfold.  I hate reading stories where babies or children are involved, but  really play no important role.  That is not the case in this book, Rafe and Rhianna's child plays an important role in their relationship and in the Sutton family.  I love that the characters from the previous books were included.  This is a great book.  Even if you have not read the previos two books I would still recommend that you read this book, but I guarantee that once you do read this book that you will want to read the others in the series.  Yes, they are that good.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	R1JPHJRYC6BWHV	082176733X	458496098	Taming Ben (Bachelors Inc.:) (Zebra Bouquet Romances, 73)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Great End to the Bachelors series	I have to admit that Colleen Faulkner is becoming one of my favorite authors.  I read all three of the Bachelors, Inc. books and I enjoyed them all.  I thought by the last book I would lose interest in these characters, but I was so wrong.  I love how Mrs. Faulkner used all of the core characters in all three books yet was still able to single out one bachelor at a time.  One thing that stuck with me is the character of Max, Bens grandfather, I remember in one of the other two books that Max said Ben would be the one to fall the hardest for the right woman, and it was great to see that he was right.  In fact, what happens to Max himself (which I will not give away), but it plays a big part in the decisions that his son makes.  One thing that is always disappointing to me is when a series ends and it always leaves you wanting more.  I was delighted to read the last chapter of this book to see that Faulkner had jumped ahead ten years to let us know how the characters lives had turned out.  This book was a great read and I hope to read more of Faulkner's work in the future.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	R33W08HJB94Y9X	0821767003	403274229	Bachelors Inc: Tempting Zack (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Great Book!	After reading Marrying Owen, which I thought was great, I was not sure if I would be interested in reading about the other bachelors.  In fact, I wanted to read more on Owen and Abby.  I was truely delighted when I read Tempting Zack.  I was immediately interested in Zack and his daughter Savannah.  I found it very sweet and touching the way Kayla became apart of not only Zack's life, but Savannah's life too.  I was also extremely happy that Faulkner included Owen and Abby as important characters in this book, and Max the wise grandfather spreads his wisdom in this book as well.  We also get a peek into what lies ahead in the next book about Ben.  Faulkner has a good second book to her 3 book series.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	R8PLWVHH9W2ZO	0373036310	658165576	The Baby Gift	Books	2	0	1	N	N	No real interest	I was not real impressed with The Baby Gift.  I have never read a book by Day Leclaire before now,  Usually when I sit down to read a book I have a hard time putting it down until I have read it from cover to cover.  Unfortunately, I found myself putting this book down on several occasions and making myself come back to it. The story did not seem to have a good flow to it.  Basically woman shows up with baby on mans doorstep.  Man is drawn to woman and child, forms an attachment, realizes their is a past connection and in the very end of the book we find out the real connection and the reason the woman showed up to begin with.  There was so much that could have been left out of this book.  There was no real reason for the child to even be included.  I just did not find a real exciting flow to the story.  There was nothing there that made me want to keep turning the pages to find out what would happen next.  It was a nice story that probably could have been written in a couple of chapters.  I hate to say that I was bored, but, I was, in fact, bored with this book.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	R1D6HFPJ3LCIZR	0821766236	248386876	The Men Of Sugar Mountain: Two Hearts (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Funny and Romantic	At first, I thought that it was just going to be a story about two stubborn people, destined to be together, and that by the end of the book they would realize they love each other.  Boy was a wrong.  Matt realizes that he still loves Kate and that he will not lose her again.  He even convinces everyone in town that they are married when they are not.  It is crazy and funny.  Although, I feel strongly that there is really two stories--one, is who is the mother of this child and two, the story of Matt and Kate.  If you expect to find out the in depth story about the child you will be disappointed.  The only thing tht I can say is that it tells you about the same information that the first book did.  Don't get me wrong--The love story of Matt and Kate makes the book worth reading.	2000-12-21
US	52437017	R2K72KR5NIPALH	037312144X	546895612	Mother Of His Child	Books	1	4	5	N	N	The Mother Of His Child-disappointing, unrealistic	I am a person that loves to read and hardly ever finds fault in a book.  Last night was the exception.  I have never before read a book by Sandra Field, but I was very disappointed with The Mother of His Child.  The main reason would have to be the unrealistic way that the characters behaved.  I am not giving anything away by saying that the adoptive father meets the biological mother of his child.  This is given in the synopses on the back of the book, but what amazed me is this mans behavior.  To me, he was someone that needed to control his hormones.  The day after meeting his daughters biological mother he wanted to have an affair with her.  The adoptive child also did not seem to serve a purpose in this story.  They could have cut her out and no one would care.  There seemed to be no reason for us to care about any of these characters.  Even the harsh way that Marnie talked to her daughter made me angry with Marnie herself.  I have to admit that recently I read Maggie's Baby by Colleen Faulkner and the plots are almost exactly the same-right down the manipulative mother forcing the adoption.  Maybe, I was disappointed with Sandra Fields book because I felt myself comparing the quality of the story to Colleen Faulkners, and Faulkners was much better written.	2000-12-16
