US	52433668	R3NRADZAHZHC50	1559353570	658581457	The Rules for Marriage : Time-Tested Secrets for Making Your Marriage Work	Books	1	9	16	N	N	Better rules...	Rule # 1 - Don't employ the suggestions that these writers advocate in their dating manuals or you will never get married in the first place. <br /> <br />Rule # 2 - Don't take marital advice from a woman whose marriage failed. That's like the blind leading the blind. Logically, if you follow her advice and she ended up divorced, wouldn't you also end up divorced? <br /> <br />Rule # 3 - Read I Corinthians 13. Then live it. You can't account for your spouse but living those rules might invite him to do the same. If both of you do so, you will have little use for this book.	2005-09-19
US	52433668	RZTC1IFW4RML8	0971152314	30115186	And Still They Fly!	Books	1	20	36	N	N	Grounded, no clearance to fly	I bought this book with an open mind to examine whether it was valid or not. Billy Meier's former spouse and other 'members of our group' who left (as even the text admits) declared his contention to be a fraud. On the other hand, his supporters discounted criticisms with plausible sounding explanations. <br /> <br />The text itself convinced me that this is an elaborate fraud. It states that the planet from which these people, who are virtually identical to humans, is beyond the Pleiades, noting the seven stars of that system. Yet, only six of the seven stars are visible to the naked eye, which the writer seems not to know, and these ETs call themselves Plejaren. Their planet is virtually identical to earth in dimension, rotation (23 hrs, 59.4 min) and revolution (also 365.25 days (actually, earth is 365.24 days, which the writer also doesn't seem to know)). What amazing coincidences!  <br /> <br />It purports to include many color photos of the space craft and even a ray gun, yet none of them of the craft on the ground with their occupants standing next to them. Why show pictures of landing gear impressions left in the ground when they could show the vehicle itself ON the ground?! A few photos claim to show  these Plejarens or a dwarf race from another planet on earth, which amazingly depict shoe tracks in mud just like an earth shoe print, complete with heel mark. These photos always blot out the face of the ET. Toward the end is a photo that at one time it appears they tried to pass off as showing two female Plejarens. However, the caption now admits that it is is of two American models from a TV show, cleverly substituted by 'men in black.' It is complete with 1970s hair fashions for the women. <br /> <br />Its last chapter claims to be doomsday predictions for earth's future. There is almost nothing original in it. Most of its dire warnings about events to come are readily available to read from various earth spiritual leaders going back nearly 1,000 years, orin the Bible. <br /> <br />This is just too much to believe. While I opened the book intent on giving it the benefit of the doubt, it alone convinced me that it is all just a hoax.	2005-02-05
US	52433668	RVSE05U9F9NOT	0972852913	266507708	Duty and Desire (Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman, Book 2)	Books	3	74	84	N	N	Improbable	My earlier review of Pamela Aiden's first installment cites it as the best P&P spinoff. It was the initial part of a trilogy that offers insight into Darcy's point of view and life apart from Miss Elizabeth Bennet in parallel to the P&P story line. The second installment falls a bit short by comparison. <br /> <br />While the continuation of Darcy's relationship with his valet is particularly delightful, the strategic plot choices seem out of character.  <br /> <br />Finding solace in God is certainly a plausible means by which Miss Darcy would overcome her experience with Wickham but to turn to evangelical Christianity rather than the Anglican Church is less realistic. As a ward of an elder brother determined to shelter her and guide her to adulthood as a proper aristocratic woman, it is more likely that he would have seen to it that she pursued a deeper faith within the more conventional church. Having already suffered the consequence of a poor choice of governess, Darcy would have been ever more careful about the character and background of a replacement. <br /> <br />Likewise, the entirety of the plot twists at the country manor is implausible. It served a valuable purpose is demonstrating Darcy considering alternative potential matrimonial options to Elizabeth Bennet and one by one finding reasons to eliminate them. However, that he would attend let alone stay at such an event is entirely out of character for him. It is more likely that he would have pursued a similar interest within the confines of proper London aristocratic society rather than in the plot's bizarre environment. <br /> <br />All in all, the second tome of a trilogy is usually regarded as the least attractive of the three. The final leg promises to give us Darcy's perspective as he struggles more directly with Miss Bennet in the evolution of their relationship. I for one continue to await its publication with undiminished anticipation.	2005-02-03
US	52433668	RXGSNVQZJ9PC8	1589392647	612444332	Excessively Diverted: The Sequel to Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Uneven but worth reading	In my opinion, Pamela Aiden's An Assembly Such As This is the best Austen spinoff. However, its imaginative story runs parallel to Pride & Prejudice, told from Darcy's perspective. Among the continuations of the P&P story, Excessively Diverted is probably the best. Juliette Shapiro is largely faithful to the plot continuation that Miss Austen intended, as well as in style and values. <br /> <br />Bringing the story to life, though, proved a bit more elusive. Shapiro captures the vocabulary of Regency England well enough. The book's early part relies primarily on the characters discussing events from P&P, which became increasingly tedious to read. Once past that and into the meat of the story, it seemed rushed as she used narrative more than dialogue to reveal in staccato fashion further developments that involved many of the characters.  <br /> <br />Had she edited the first part more severely and fleshed out the rest, it might have been a novel worthy of Austen herself. As is, it is superior to most of the others of its genre and well worth the read for those who were so delighted with P&P that they crave more.	2004-08-03
US	52433668	RHACXDQCK0LHR	0471283622	486376579	Wyatt Earp: The Life Behind the Legend	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Balanced, well documented	Tefertiller's biography of Wyatt Earp appears to me to be the best balanced and well documented book about the Old West legend. Timothy Fattig's upcoming version may outdo it but this one is the best yet published. It relies heavily on primary source documents such as newspaper accounts and court transcripts. Rather than simply rattle them off, though, Tefertiller develops the background information each step of the way through the text. In this way, he expertly examines the context of conflicting source documents, such as the competing and wildly polar opposite newspapers in Tombstone.<br />To empathize with the object of a biography is the natural inclination of writers and Tefertiller is no exception. While he does a good job of being as objective as possible most of the time, and reveals the real Wyatt Earp warts and all, he does toward the end seem a little too given to accept Earp's own public statements as unswervingly honest. With regard to the incident late in his life when he participated in a gambling swindle, to this reader at least, Earp's testimony seems obviously disingenuous.<br />That single criticism aside, if there is one book you read on the topic, let this be it. Not only does the reader derive a mostly objective appreciation for Wyatt Earp but a much clearer picture of the Old West culture in which he lived.	2004-07-09
US	52433668	R3DQHCFO84HGRY	0684859203	363131804	Noah's Flood: The New Scientific Discoveries About The Event That Changed History	Books	4	11	19	N	N	Good research but faulty conclusion	Ryan and Pitman do a terrific job of developing and presenting the evidence for the flood of the Black Sea region about 7000-7500 years ago. However, it's a stretch for them to extrapolate evidence for the flood of the Black Sea into the Great Flood. Evidence for the latter as a world wide event reaches far beyond the shores of the Black Sea.<br />As the 'Ice Age' ended, during several thousand years the ocean level rose 400-600 feet. Recent submarine archaeological finds off the coast of India and in the Caribbean indicate that the Black Sea was not the only vicinity whose population became displaced. There are in excess of 200 megalithic sites under the Mediterranean, and roads leading away from sites on Malta go straight under the sea. Other undersea sites include those off the coast of Denmark and Germany. Like the Black Sea, the Baltic was also once a fresh water lake, and likely flooded in much the same way and at the same time.<br />To be sure, refugees from the Black Sea region resettled in what is now Turkey, as well as in every other direction from its former shores. From what is now Turkey, elements of that culture migrated southeastward into Mesopotamia to found the civilization of Sumer. The archaeological record demonstrates that. In Ancient times, Phrygia (north central Anatolia, now Turkey) vied with Egypt for the distinction of being the oldest civilization, and Phrygia eventually won the argument (on flimsy grounds). Geographic evidence embedded in the Bible's Garden of Eden story points to the Zagros Mountains in the same region for its origin.<br />As for the Great Flood, its likelier cause was a comet or asteroid impact about 11,200 years ago. The physical evidence all over the planet suggests that. If we look at ice core samples from Greenland and Antarctica, for example, the Younger Dryas demonstrates a warming spike at that point in time, then a re-freeze from the nuclear winter wrought by the impact event and then gradual warming and meltingover several thousand years to produce the rising sea levels that flooded coastlines worldwide, including that of the Black Sea. <br />(A lot more evidence points to 11,200 years ago as well. It also coincides with a mass extinction, including more than half of the large mammal species in North America, for instance. DNA research shows a genetic bottleneck at this point among the human species, indicative of a vast temporary diminishment of the human population worldwide. There are a dearth of archaeological human occupation sites around the world at this point and for several hundred years following. Geophysical evidence in North America, India and Egypt demonstrates sand superheated into glass in a fashion normally unknown in nature. A large crater 600 mi. x 750 mi. lies at the bottom of the western North Atlantic, the remnant of the primary impact site(s). The Carolina Bays comprise over half a million smaller crater remains scattered all over North America, in a pattern from Alaska to the southeast U.S., with greatest concentration in the latter region. Erosion analysis dates them to that point in time as well.)<br />Read the book. It contains a lot of valuable information. Bear in mind, though, that it is just one part of a much bigger story.	2004-04-18
US	52433668	RLVKQBMYU3TPU	0582322480	579969212	The Great War: 1914-1918	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Kitchen sink	The word that best describes Ian F.W. Beckett's The Great War 1914-1918 is thorough. He covers every possible aspect of the war, from its campaigns to political intrigue to labor movements to cultural impact. Unlike standard histories organized in a linear mode, which emphasize chronological sequence, Beckett deliberately chose to concentrate each chapter on a particular theme, and developed that focus from pre-war to post-war when pertinent. In situations when consensus among historians is lacking, he fully explains the conflicting views and identifies their respective proponents.<br />While the reading is sometimes dry, as is the case with most histories, this book is jam packed with information. Copious notes at the end of each chapter point the way to more detailed investigation for those interested.	2004-04-14
US	52433668	R1VC0US6LSLWDI	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	38	84	N	N	Wolf in sheep's clothing	The Knights Templar, the Rosicrucians, and many masons have kept alive among their secret beliefs that the Merovingian line of Frankish kings from the early Middle Ages were descended directly from Jesus. To justify this outlandish claim, they must profess that Jesus did not die on the cross but survived it, and went on to live a much longer life, married Mary Magdalene and had children with her, from whom the Merovingians supposedly descend. There isn't any historic evidence for this. (The Merovingians were replaced on the Frankish throne in the 8th century AD by the Carolingians, chief among them Charlemagne.)<br />In this novel a proponent of that nonsense has created a popular vehicle with which to attempt to deceive the public into thinking that this thesis is true. Yet it flies in the face of all historic context. From the report about Jesus contained in the writings of Flavius Josephus to the bald fact of hundreds of people who knew Jesus and witnessed his death, resurrection or ascension, and who gave their lives for Him, the contemporaries of Jesus who were familiar with the facts bear tacit testament contrary to this slander of Him. Nor does it square with early Frankish history.<br />There are quite a few writings about Jesus that never made it into the canon of Scripture. When you have read enough of them, then you realize that they are mostly a lot of fantasies about Jesus or those connected to Him. There are reasons they are not in the Bible. They have more in common with second party spinoffs of Jane Austen's novel Pride and Prejudice, for example, written by people who loved the original so much that they wrote their own fantasy continuations of the story.<br />This scurrilous novel defames Jesus in every possible fashion. In a back handed way, it contends that He lied when He said that He would be killed and then would rise from the dead. It purports that all of His disciples lied in their representations of Him. It says that the crucifixion was a lie, that Easter was a lie, that His ascension was a lie, and thus that His promise to return is a lie. Either everything essential to His coming into the world was a lie or what this book proposes is a lie, couched in novel form.<br />Something else Jesus said is that Satan is the Father of Lies (John 8). Open your eyes and don't be duped by this well crafted lie.ie, that Easter was a lie, that His ascension was a lie, and thus that His promise to return is a lie. Either everything essential to His coming into the world was a lie or what this book proposes is a lie, couched in novel form.<br />Something else Jesus said is that Satan is the Father of Lies (John 8). Open your eyes and don't be duped by this well crafted lie.	2004-04-08
US	52433668	R3UYP11IY1KV65	0899424066	228429538	Christian Prayer: The Liturgy of the Hours	Books	5	242	255	N	N	Practicing the Presence of God	The Liturgy of the Hours is a great stepping stone for transforming our entire lives into prayer. The single volume Christian Prayer is a good starter. With the discipline of sticking with it daily, we tend to thirst for more. Then the four volume, more extensive set becomes a valuable purchase. The organization of its volumes into the various liturgical seasons better than the single book enhances our ability to focus on them.<br />Where can this lead? By dedicating each thing we think, say or do as a pray offering to God, we gradually grow into a state of constant prayer. It isn't necessary to be directly thinking about God as we pursue each task of our daily lives. Simply their dedication makes of them a prayer. The result is that we become consciously aware of God's presence on an ongoing basis. It's like when a person is standing behind us. They see everything we do, hear everything we say but we can't see them. Yet we KNOW they are there, and are aware of it at all times.<br />Once we are constantly mindful of God's presence, we allow Him to begin the purgative process, as St John of the Cross explains it. We think of hell as a 'firey furnace,' yet in the New Testament fire refers more often to God's love than anything else. In Hebrews and Wisdom 3, Scripture speaks of gold being purified in fire. Gold jewelry is an alloy with another metal, to enable crafters to shape it into a permanent, hardened state since gold is a soft, maleable metal. When we heat it up to 2500 degrees, though, it returns to its molten or liquid state, and the other metal (or 'impurity') easily separates from the gold, leaving only the pure, 24 carat gold.<br />Constant awareness of God's presence allows Him to begin to burn away our impurities by exposure to the fire of His perfect love. We feel the dissonance of everything that we think, say or do with His love when they fail to conform with that love. This spiritual discomfort becomes a gentle pressure, as we naturally begin to conform our lives to that fire of love. As we yield to His love and permit Him to transform our lives thus, we grow closer to entrance into perfect union with Him, which is essentially what heaven is. John of the Cross notes that this is what happens in Purgatory, but that we can make greater strides in that process during this life.<br />One by-product of this type of spiritual growth is that we acquire a keener sense of what God's will is. In the Last Supper discourse of John's Gospel, Jesus repeatedly says that whatever we ask for in His Father's name shall be done for us. St John qualifies that, though, in his first Letter by adding that what we ask of God must be in accordance with His will. As we conform our lives to His love, we increasingly feel more exactly what is in concert with it and what is not. Thus, we become more refined in terms of the prayers of petition that we ask of Him.<br />The Liturgy of the Hours is an excellent way to strive toward the prayer discipline that lets God draw us into that deeper spirituality, and ultimately into perfect union with Him for eternity.	2004-04-02
US	52433668	R3FJOJX7WB66OD	0899424112	250466803	The Liturgy of the Hours: Complete Set	Books	5	148	159	N	N	Practicing the Presence of God	The Liturgy of the Hours is a great stepping stone to transforming our entire lives into prayer. The single volume Christian Prayer is a good starter. With the discipline of sticking with it daily, we tend to thirst for more. Then the four volume, more extensive set becomes a valuable purchase. The organization of its volumes into the various liturgical seasons better than the single book enhances our ability to focus on them.<br />Where can this lead? By dedicating each thing we think, say or do as a pray offering to God, we gradually grow into a state of constant prayer.  It isn't necessary to be directly thinking about God as we pursue each task of our daily lives. Simply their dedication makes of them a prayer. The result is that we become consciously aware of God's presence on an ongoing basis. It's like when a person is standing behind us. They see everything we do, hear everything we say but we can't see them. Yet we KNOW they are there, and are aware of it at all times.<br />Once we are constantly mindful of God's presence, we allow Him to begin the purgative process, as St John of the Cross explains it.  We think of hell as a 'firey furnace,' yet in the New Testament fire refers more often to God's love than anything else. In Hebrews and Wisdom 3, Scripture speaks of gold being purified in fire. Gold jewelry is an alloy with another metal, to enable crafters to shape it into a permanent, hardened state since gold is a soft, maleable metal. When we heat it up to 2500 degrees, though, it returns to its molten or liquid state, and the other metal (or 'impurity') easily separates from the gold, leaving only the pure, 24 carat gold.<br />Constant awareness of God's presence allows Him to begin to burn away our impurities by exposure to the fire of His perfect love. We feel the dissonance of everything that we think, say or do with His love when they fail to conform with that love. This spiritual discomfort becomes a gentle pressure, as we naturally begin to conform our lives to that fire of love. As we yield to His love and permit Him to transform our lives thus, we grow closer to entrance into perfect union with Him, which is essentially what heaven is. John of the Cross notes that this is what happens in Purgatory, but that we can make greater strides in that process during this life.<br />One by-product of this type of spiritual growth is that we acquire a keener sense of what God's will is. In the Last Supper discourse of John's Gospel, Jesus repeatedly says that whatever we ask for in His Father's name shall be done for us. St John qualifies that, though, in his first Letter by adding that what we ask of God must be in accordance with His will. As we conform our lives to His love, we increasingly feel more exactly what is in concert with it and what is not. Thus, we become more refined in terms of the prayers of petition that we ask of Him.<br />The Liturgy of the Hours is an excellent way to strive toward the prayer discipline that lets God draw us into that deeper spirituality, and ultimately into perfect union with Him for eternity.onform our lives to that fire of love. As we yield to His love and permit Him to transform our lives thus, we grow closer to entrance into perfect union with Him, which is essentially what heaven is. John of the Cross notes that this is what happens in Purgatory, but that we can make greater strides in that process during this life.<br />One by-product of this type of spiritual growth is that we acquire a keener sense of what God's will is. In the Last Supper discourse of John's Gospel, Jesus repeatedly says that whatever we ask for in His Father's name shall be done for us. St John qualifies that, though, in his first Letter by adding that what we ask of God must be in accordance with His will. As we conform our lives to His love, we increasingly feel more exactly what is in concert with it and what is not. Thus, we become more refined in terms of the prayers of petition that we ask of Him.<br />The Liturgy of the Hours is an excellent way to strive toward the prayer discipline that lets God draw us into that deeper spirituality, and ultimately into perfect union with Him for eternity.	2004-04-02
US	52433668	RI337EV9DJUM1	0899424236	663448995	Shorter Christian Prayer: The Four-Week Psalter of the Liturgy of the Hours Containing Morning Prayer and Evening Prayer With Selections for the Entire Year	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Practicing the Presence of God	The Liturgy of the Hours is a great stepping stone for transforming our entire lives into prayer. The single volume Christian Prayer is a good starter. With the discipline of sticking with it daily, we tend to thirst for more. Then the four volume, more extensive set becomes a valuable purchase. The organization of its volumes into the various liturgical seasons better than the single book enhances our ability to focus on them.<br />Where can this lead? By dedicating each thing we think, say or do as a pray offering to God, we gradually grow into a state of constant prayer. It isn't necessary to be directly thinking about God as we pursue each task of our daily lives. Simply their dedication makes of them a prayer. The result is that we become consciously aware of God's presence on an ongoing basis. It's like when a person is standing behind us. They see everything we do, hear everything we say but we can't see them. Yet we KNOW they are there, and are aware of it at all times.<br />Once we are constantly mindful of God's presence, we allow Him to begin the purgative process, as St John of the Cross explains it. We think of hell as a 'firey furnace,' yet in the New Testament fire refers more often to God's love than anything else. In Hebrews and Wisdom 3, Scripture speaks of gold being purified in fire. Gold jewelry is an alloy with another metal, to enable crafters to shape it into a permanent, hardened state since gold is a soft, maleable metal. When we heat it up to 2500 degrees, though, it returns to its molten or liquid state, and the other metal (or 'impurity') easily separates from the gold, leaving only the pure, 24 carat gold.<br />Constant awareness of God's presence allows Him to begin to burn away our impurities by exposure to the fire of His perfect love. We feel the dissonance of everything that we think, say or do with His love when they fail to conform with that love. This spiritual discomfort becomes a gentle pressure, as we naturally begin to conform our lives to that fire of love. As we yield to His love and permit Him to transform our lives thus, we grow closer to entrance into perfect union with Him, which is essentially what heaven is. John of the Cross notes that this is what happens in Purgatory, but that we can make greater strides in that process during this life.<br />One by-product of this type of spiritual growth is that we acquire a keener sense of what God's will is. In the Last Supper discourse of John's Gospel, Jesus repeatedly says that whatever we ask for in His Father's name shall be done for us. St John qualifies that, though, in his first Letter by adding that what we ask of God must be in accordance with His will. As we conform our lives to His love, we increasingly feel more exactly what is in concert with it and what is not. Thus, we become more refined in terms of the prayers of petition that we ask of Him.<br />The Liturgy of the Hours is an excellent way to strive toward the prayer discipline that lets God draw us into that deeper spirituality, and ultimately into perfect union with Him for eternity.	2004-04-02
US	52433668	RFI8T41EF5Y3B	0375411569	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	2	144	168	N	N	Redundant	It was with eager anticipation that I pre-ordered this volume. Dr. Fromkin's Pullitzer nominated A Peace To End All Peace is one of the best history books I have ever read. Europe's Last Summer, in stark contrast, is one of the most poorly written histories of my acquaintance.<br />Structurally, Fromkin divides his 305 pages into 53 chapters, many of which are merely two pages in length. The idea was to devote each one to a point by point presentation of the many steps and relevant considerations that led to the culminating conclusions about who was responsible for starting The Great War.<br />What became increasingly annoying was its redundancy. Frequently the reader sees the phrases &quot;as noted earlier&quot; and &quot;as quoted earlier,&quot; as Fromkin keeps saying the same handful of statements over and over and over. He tells us no fewer than eight times that German General Helmuth von Moltke (the younger) wanted Germany to confront Russia in war earlier rather than later because he perceived that Russia's French funded industrialization would gradually displace Germany as the leading military power in the world. It became maddeningly tortuous to keep reading the same statements again and again.<br />For most of his conclusions, he refers to the analysis of other historians. By the time I finished reading, I felt that it would have been more profitable to read those historians' books instead.<br />He does ultimately make some important observations. His delineation of the Great War as having been in reality two wars is a valuable insight. That he carefully identifies individual views among the decision makers for each of the Great Powers illuminates the often conflicting machinations within each of their governments. Too often histories of the period treat those governments as having acted with one voice and one mind. His portrayal of Kaiser Wilhelm and those of his subordinates who contravened him as crisis evolved is especially relevant to understanding how German policy arrived at war.<br />On the other hand, his overall thesis is somewhat flawed. If Austria-Hungary had acted on Germany's advice to attack Serbia quickly, then those within the German decision makers such as Moltke who desired war with Russia would have been robbed of their pretext. Ultimately, his final conclusion misses the mark at least a little bit.	2004-04-01
US	52433668	RT3Z9ACT17AGC	0972852905	111784894	An Assembly Such as This (Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman: Book 1)	Books	4	274	275	N	N	Perhaps the best of the Pride & Prejudice spinoffs	Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman is a trilogy that focuses on Darcy's point of view. Unlike other Pride & Prejudice spinoffs, which attempt to continue the story into the future, this one cleverly covers the same ground from the other protagonist's perspective. It is imaginative and realistic.<br />Aidan enhances her tome by fleshing out some of the details of Regency England. Austen herself assumed that the reader understood the mindset of the landed gentry of early nineteenth century England, and thus glosses over incidental description. Aidan introduces more of the culture, for example the Morning In tradition, and includes greater interaction with servants as well. These serve to enrich the modern reader with a greater appreciation of the background setting.<br />This work is not without flaws but they tend toward disagreement in interpretation than serious error. For example, she has Bingley reveal annoyance privately to Darcy about sister Caroline's criticisms toward others, which seems a bit out of character with his overwhelming affability in every situation as Austen portrayed him. In a couple of places, Aidan's passages about Darcy's evaluation of his early encounters with Miss Elizabeth Bennet seem far more typical of a woman's much keener perceptions of the subtleties and nuances of relationships than the typical man, then or now. (Although a bit unrealistic, since most readers of this will be women they will probably enjoy and appreciate Darcy's analysis.) It seems a glaring mistake to have Darcy figure out that Elizabeth overheard his untoward comment about her at the first Hertfordshire assembly, when seen in light of the naivete' of his first marriage proposal in Austen. However, Aidan more than compensates with outstanding portrayal of Darcy's plausible reasoning behind many of his early attitudes that lead Hertfordshire society to think ill of him.<br />On the whole, this is in my opinion the best of the many second party writers' books that attempt toextend Austen's timeless story. The second part of the trilogy is scheduled to appear during summer 2004 and the final installment in the fall of 2004. I look forward to reading them as well, and encourage all aficionados of Pride & Prejudice to read all three. She earns only four stars from me primarily out of respect for Austen.	2004-03-04
US	52433668	RIADALS1BHMGQ	0743451473	257309273	The Rules for Online Dating: Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right in Cyberspace	Books	1	134	177	N	N	What I like in a woman	I like a woman who is honest. Manipulative is not honest; it's immature. Hard to imagine how a relationship could last that is based on such behavior.<br />I like women who take initiative.<br />I like women who return phone calls. If you do not return my call, I will not call again. When you don't, what I hear you saying is that you are not interested. I also like women who initiate phone calls themselves.<br />I like women who don't wait 24 hours to reply to an email. I also like women who don't avoid writing simply because it is during the weekend and don't want to appear to be unbusy at that time.<br />I like women who don't stop writing after four emails simply because I haven't asked them out yet. A woman who behaves like that is going to miss the love of her life.<br />I like well educated women. A woman who answers with a terse three line quickie suggests that she is inarticulate. That she artificially suppresses communication seems to be contradictory to one of the most foundational aspects of a successful relationship: open, honest communication.<br />The techniques this book recommends would quickly cause me to look elsewhere.<br />I like women who answer the questions I ask instead of ignoring them.<br />I like women who don't passively wait to be asked out. If you want to go out, ask. Fear of rejection? Now you understand what equality means. For both men and women, if we don't ask, the answer is automatically no.<br />I like women who are truly interested in equality in a relationship. That means not insisting on equality only when it suits them.<br />I like women who don't use double standards.<br />When I ask a woman for a date, she is my guest and I should pay. It is impolite for her to demand to pay half. If she wants to pay for something, she should do the asking. Then I'd be her guest. She should do half the asking if she really wants equality.<br />I like women who have a sense of humor. That doesn't mean women who exclusively expect to be entertained with my sense of humor, but rather those who are capable of creating humor themselves.<br />If you want a relationship, stop playing games.<br />This book helps to explain why an ever increasing percentage of women finish college, reach their 30th birthday, reach their 40th birthday without ever finding the right man for them.<br />The only real value I see to this book is that it helps me to weed out the women who rely upon such techniques.	2003-12-16
US	52433668	RWCHNOF6WPOCR	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well researched, even better written	Seabiscuit is the story not only of a horse but of a small group of people whose lives intertwined primarily because of that horse. The author creates richly vivid biographical portrayals of each of these people, crafting one story at a time a series of vignettes that mesh to comprise a mosaic of real people in a real world usually overlooked and obscure. She not only illuminates that world but brings it energetically to life. It is so inspiring and well written that it is difficult to put down this book. Even the acknowledgements, which I invariably skip, is full of poignant revelations. And the centerpiece of the story is a magnificent racehorse, who became, once molded by the people who loved him, one of the greatest of any era. Read this book! It is uplifting and will leave a lump in your throat when you finish. It is one of the rare tomes that the reader wishes would go on longer than it does.	2003-12-16
US	52433668	RP7L1HZHPWLFY	0446602744	275856268	The Rules: Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right	Books	1	27	38	N	N	What I like in a woman	I like a woman who is honest. Manipulative is not honest - it is immature. Hard to imagine how a relationship could last that is based on such behavior. Outright lying will end a relationship with me instantly.<br />I like women who take initiative.<br />I like women who return phone calls. If you do not return my call, I will not call again. When you don't, what I hear you saying is that you are not interested. It is also rude, another point against you. I also like women who initiate phone calls themselves.<br />I like well educated women. A woman who answers an email with a terse three line quickie suggests that she is inarticulate. That she artificially suppresses phone or email communication seems to be contradictory to one of the most foundational aspects of a successful relationship: open, honest communication.<br />The techniques this book recommends would quickly cause me to look elsewhere.<br />I like women who answer the questions I ask instead of ignoring them or lying about themselves.<br />I like women who don't passively wait to be asked out. If you want to go out, ask. Fear of rejection? Now you understand what equality means. For both men and women, if we don't ask, the answer is automatically no.<br />I like women who are truly interested in equality in a relationship. That means not insisting on equality only when it suits them, or using double standards.<br />When I ask a woman for a date, she is my guest and I should pay. It is impolite for her to demand to pay half. If she wants to pay for something, she should do the asking. Then I'd be her guest. She should do half the asking if she really wants equality.<br />I like women who have a sense of humor. That doesn't mean women who exclusively expect to be entertained with my sense of humor, but rather those who are adept at being humorous themselves.<br />If you want a relationship, stop playing games.<br />This book helps to explain why an ever increasing percentage of women finish college, reach their 30th birthday, reach their 40th birthday without ever finding the right man for them. Or end up divorced, like one of the writers of this book.<br />The only real value I see in this volume is that it helps me to weed out the women who rely upon such techniques.<br />As an aside, I found it interesting to see in Amazon's listing that among other books bought by those who purchased this one was &quot;Comedy Writing Secrets.&quot; How ironic!	2003-12-09
US	52433668	R1SXABZ5JGU0Y1	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well written history	Most people who are not history aficionados find such tomes to be boring and bland reading, useful primarily for falling asleep. Even an objective historian will admit that most history books tend to be dry and uninspiring. Dr. Anderson's work is a rare and welcome departure. It is one of the most well written histories I have ever encountered.<br />Prior to its release, other histories of the French &amp; Indian War tended toward being narrow, incomplete or seen as at best a precursor to what in American eyes is the more important American Revolution. Anderson's effort puts this pre-Revolution era in its proper perspective, and accurately elevates it to its more vital significance in the global perspective. Instead of being the backwater trial run leading up to the supposedly more important Revolution, it was really part of a world war; and the Revolution  more an aftermath than the main event.<br />It is a balanced narrative. Anderson explains the unfolding events both from the American and British point of view. This makes it easier for the reader to understand the gradual polarization on each side of the Atlantic that led inexorably to Revolution later. He also endeavors to present the French perspective as well as that of the various Indian nations.<br />What brings the story to life, though, is his skill in blending the strategic events with colorful rendition of individual people and events. As an historian, he is blessed with a 'zoom lens' that equally sees both the little guy and the big picture. His detailed account of Washington's folly in the Ohio wilderness that became the matchstick to ignite world war is particularly poignant.<br />Along with A Peace to End All Peace by David Fromkin, Anderson's book is one of the two best histories I have read. I highly recommend both to everyone, even those who seldom delve into history.	2003-11-06
US	52433668	R2J2KCYMA2BP9O	009979991X	189127340	Legend: The Genesis of Civilisation	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Good second volume	Egyptologist David Rohl challenged long held beliefs about ancient Egyptian history and its timeline in his first book, A Test of Time (a.k.a. Pharaohs and Kings in its American incarnation). In so doing, he backed into demonstrating that early Hebrew tradition and history correlates with the records of Egypt and other regional nations of the time, from the Patriarch Joseph to the initial Israelite kings. This book continues that re-evaluation of history by adding a fresh look at the earlier Biblical legends to see if he can make historical sense out of them. He mostly succeeds.<br />This book delves into an examination of people and events from Genesis that many exegetes regard as legendary at best. Among those covered include Adam and Eve along with identification of the probable physical location of a real Garden of Eden, and their descendents as the early leaders of what became the Sumerian civilization. He explains the linguistic correlation between Scriptural names and Sumerian ones to make his case. He then adds an intriguing explanation for the long mysterious origin of the Egyptian ruling class of their Dynasties Zero and One to tie together a solid thesis about the origins and migrations of many of the peoples of the Near East, such as the Canaanites and the Phoenicians.<br />His conclusions are not without minor errors, which accounts for a rating of four stars instead of five. He mistranslates Elohim, as do many modern scholars, to mean 'Lords of the mountain,' when it actually means 'Lord of the mountains.' He also backs into an estimation of a date for the occurrence of the Great Flood by using literary sources exclusively, ignoring the physical evidence that places it about 8,000 years earlier. To recognize this would necessitate a further reworking of his timeline but he has already demonstrated thoroughly the openness to follow the evidence to wherever it leads.<br />Unlike the sensationalistic books lately extant from many other irresponsible writers, Dr. Rohl's research is sound and responsible scholarship. It is well worth reading.	2003-11-04
US	52433668	RDUASJYN9OJQF	0892838299	418041840	A Father Who Keeps His Promises: God's Covenant Love in Scripture	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Excellent thesis although slightly flawed	Taken from Scott Hahn's doctoral thesis, this is an excellent introduction to the concept of covenants and oaths (Latin 'sacramentum,' Greek 'mysterion') as the foundation of a family relationship with God. <br />In its original form, as presented here, Hahn identifies six covenants. Because the nature of the oath (from the Hebrew that means 'to swear a seven') begs for a seventh one, he initially thought that it occurred at Judgement Day. That doesn't fit, though. Of necessity, Jesus' covenant at the Triduum MUST be the seventh, as the quintessential moment both in and out of all time, His oath literally THE Oath of Oaths. <br />Hahn later recognized this and added one through Ezra in his classes at Steubenville. However, the Ezra (return from the Babylonian Captivity) solution is unsatisfying because that supposed covenant failed to expand to include anyone new.<br />His error is in lumping Creation from Genesis 1 together with God's covenant with Adam & Eve. He does so because he sees the one through Moses as two-fold (established, rejected, re-established) and relates early Genesis in the same way. Yet, Pope John Paul II asserts that Genesis 1 is a covenant unto itself (Theology of the Body).<br />Once Hahn sees Genesis 1 as a separate covenant from Genesis 3-4, he can account for all seven of them without reliance on Ezra to plug the hole. Perhaps we will see a later revision to this book, as Dr. Hahn is someone of immense humility who searches to understand the truth, and has already altered the thesis presented here in that pursuit.<br />This is otherwise a consistent, coherent, well explained book that I urge every Catholic to read. It forms an incisive basis for understanding the nature of salvation history from Creation to Jesus.	2003-10-27
US	52433668	R8PX6LR3SIW6B	0743451473	257309273	The Rules for Online Dating: Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right in Cyberspace	Books	1	24	38	N	N	What I like in a woman	I like a woman who is honest. Manipulative is not honest; it's immature. Hard to imagine how a relationship could last that is based on such behavior.<br />I like women who take initiative.<br />I like women who return phone calls. If you do not return my call, I will not call again. When you don't, what I hear you saying is that you are not interested. I also like women who initiate phone calls themselves.<br />I like women who don't wait 24 hours to reply to an email. I also like women who don't avoid writing simply because it is during the weekend and don't want to appear to be unbusy at that time.<br />I like women who don't stop writing after four emails simply because I haven't asked them out yet. A woman who behaves like that is going to miss the love of her life.<br />I like well educated women. A woman who answers with a terse three line quickie suggests that she is inarticulate. That she artifically suppresses communication seems to be contradictory to one of the most foundational aspects of a successful relationship: open, honest communication.<br />The techniques this book recommends would quickly cause me to look elsewhere.<br />I like women who answer the questions I ask instead of ignoring them.<br />I like women who don't passively wait to be asked out. If you want to go out, ask. Fear of rejection? Now you understand what equality means. For both men and women, if we don't ask, the answer is automatically no.<br />I like women who are truly interested in equality in a relationship. That means not insisting on equality only when it suits them.<br />I like women who don't use double standards.<br />When I ask a woman for a date, she is my guest and I should pay. It is impolite for her to demand to pay half. If she wants to pay for something, she should do the asking. Then I'd be her guest. She should do half the asking if she really wants equality.<br />I like women who have a sense of humor. That doesn't mean women who exclusively expect to be entertained with my sense of humor, but rather those who are capable of creating humor themselves.<br />If you want a relationship, stop playing games.<br />This book helps to explain why an ever increasing percentage of women finish college, reach their 30th birthday, reach their 40th birthday without ever finding the right man for them. <br />The only real value I see to this book is that it helps me to weed out the women who rely upon such techniques.	2003-10-01
US	52433668	RVDHGX5RXREJ1	067101756X	466018903	The Day After Roswell	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Disinformation or Authorized Release of Information?	The Day After Roswell is an excellent and well written text that reveals how the capture of a crashed alien space vessel at Roswell in 1947 jump started technological development across a broad spectrum. Since its author is revealing government secrets and the rationale behind the secrecy, it calls into question what his motives were in writing. If this is an expose' then he is in violation of his oath of secrecy and could be prosecuted. As such, it seems unlikely that this is disinformation, since it contradicts the standard government stance that UFOs don't exist. On the other hand, it may be something the government authorized, even asked Col. Corso to do, as part of a plan to reveal gradually what has been going on for the past half century. (Notice that a few years thereafter the gov't foisted yet another false story about what happened at Roswell. Reminds me of a little kid who got caught stealing from the cookie jar and keeps making up one story after another to avoid admitting their guilt.)<br />This revelation raises further questions. Why would aliens wait for us to improve our technology if their intentions were belligerent? The answer may be simple. Since they are apparently studying us in much the same fashion that we do various forms of wildlife, such as radio tagging grizzly bears, they may have underestimated our capacity to adapt their technology and come up with a viable defense to them. Also, if we intentionally shot down one of their craft over Germany in 1974, more than a quarter of a century ago, what has been the status of this 'war' from then until now? Are they still buzzing our planes and spacecraft? Still experimenting on cattle and humans? What has been the effect of demonstrating our ability to stop them, or is it illusory that we can? Is the real purpose of this book to say that yes, ET is really there but we now have a defense against them, even though we don't? If so, this is a different kind of disinformation.<br />All of this callsinto question another consideration. Why is it that we are planning to go to Mars while having bypassed the moon as a base of operations?  Certainly the latter has little gravity, so escape velocity requirements are minimal compared to taking off from earth. Are the space stations intended for that purpose as an alternative? I vividly remember listening to Neil Armstrong as he took mankind's first steps on the moon in 1969. Our (vacuum tube) TV broke so we had to listen on the radio. He distinctly stated that he saw lights coming from a nearby crater. Later I read that when he went over to the crater, there was an alien craft and they telepathically told him that we were to stay off of the moon. After a few missions we stopped going there. What is the real reason? Since one side of it always faces the earth, it makes an ideal observation post to watch this planet. And do we keep losing expensive probes that we send to Mars as soon as they arrive there because ET is destroying them?<br />Read the book. Answer your own questions, and ask new ones.<br />P.S. Having worked a summer job as a teen at Fort Belvoir, the home of the U.S. Army's Corp of Engineers, the local references that Col. Corso cites were particularly personally poignant for me.	2003-07-04
US	52433668	R1XW1QLRAQY07U	067101756X	466018903	The Day After Roswell	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Disinformation or Authorized Release of Information?	The Day After Roswell is an excellent and well written text that reveals how the capture of a crashed alien space vessel at Roswell in 1947 jump started technological development across a broad spectrum. Since its author is revealing government secrets and the rationale behind the secrecy, it calls into question what his motives were in writing. If this is an expose' then he is in violation of his oath of secrecy and could be prosecuted. As such, it seems unlikely that this is disinformation, since it contradicts the standard government stance that UFOs don't exist. On the other hand, it may be something the government authorized, even asked Col. Corso to do, as part of a plan to reveal gradually what has been going on for the past half century. (Notice that a few years thereafter the gov't foisted yet another false story about what happened at Roswell. Reminds me of a little kid who got caught stealing from the cookie jar and keeps making up one story after another to avoid admitting their guilt.)<br />This revelation raises further questions. Why would aliens wait for us to improve our technology if their intentions were belligerent? The answer may be simple. Since they are apparently studying us in much the same fashion that we do various forms of wildlife, such as radio tagging grizzly bears, they may have underestimated our capacity to adapt their technology and come up with a viable defense to them. Also, if we intentionally shot down one of their craft over Germany in 1974, more than a quarter of a century ago, what has been the status of this 'war' from then until now? Are they still buzzing our planes and spacecraft? Still experimenting on cattle and humans? What has been the effect of demonstrating our ability to stop them, or is it illusory that we can? Is the real purpose of this book to say that yes, ET is really there but we now have a defense against them, even though we don't? If so, this is a different kind of disinformation.<br />All of this callsinto question another consideration. Why is it that we are planning to go to Mars while having bypassed the moon as a base of operations?  Certainly the latter has little gravity, so escape velocity requirements are minimal compared to taking off from earth. Are the space stations intended for that purpose as an alternative? I vividly remember listening to Neil Armstrong as he took mankind's first steps on the moon in 1969. Our (vacuum tube) TV broke so we had to listen on the radio. He distinctly stated that he saw lights coming from a nearby crater. Later I read that when he went over to the crater, there was an alien craft and they telepathically told him that we were to stay off of the moon. After a few missions we stopped going there. What is the real reason? Since one side of it always faces the earth, it makes an ideal observation post to watch this planet. And do we keep losing expensive probes that we send to Mars as soon as they arrive there because ET is destroying them?<br />Read the book. Answer your own questions, and ask new ones...	2003-07-04
US	52433668	R18QP0BT6BJ1BJ	158619027X	590915035	The New Order of Man's History	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Close but no cigar	The writer is on the right track but many of his 'facts' are wrong.  Yes, an asteroid did hit but not when he says. Correlation with archaeological evidence, none of which he does, demonstrates a date about 700 years earlier than that which he identifies. Again, archaeological evidence shows that North Africa remained lush and green until about 5-6,000 years ago. Usually cites his conclusions without backing them up with any evidence whatsoever. Needs to rely on ice core samples from Greenland and Antarctica to support his claims about the Ice Age, many of whose particulars are in error. Obvious lack of knowledge about the development of cultures toward civilization 7-3,000 BC.<br />His writing style is atrocious. Most chapters are only a few pages, and often repeat the same material from previous ones over and over and over.  The book is 212 pp. Had he fleshed out his chapters with hard, supporting data and eliminated the redundancy, it would have been a much better effort. <br />He's openly hostile toward religion. Odd, considering the emphasis placed on religion by Cro Magnon humans, whom he cites as being more intelligent than modern humans owing to their larger brain capacity. What did they know that he doesn't?!	2003-01-28
US	52433668	R16UA3LFSQHCQO	0312304005	507818134	Before the Flood: The Biblical Flood as a Real Event and How It Changed the Course of Civilization	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Tunnel visioned conclusion	It is inevitable that we will begin to see historic works that claim the Flood legend was really a local event, based on Ryan and Pittman's discovery in the Black Sea. Wilson's research is fine to the extent that he takes it. His contention that there is no evidence for the Flood or its effects elsewhere is unfounded. There are more than 650 cultures around the world that have flood stories. Wilson would have to extend his hypothesis to include all of them as having been spawned from the Black Sea.<br />As the Ice Age ended, during several thousand years the ocean level rose 400-600 feet. Recent submarine archaeological finds off the coast of India and in the Caribbean indicate that the Black Sea was not the only vicinity whose population became displaced. There are in excess of 200 megalithic sites under the Mediterranean, and roads leading away from the site on Malta go straight under the sea. Other undersea sites include off the coast of Denmark and Germany. Like the Black Sea, the Baltic was also once a fresh water lake.<br />To be sure, refugees from the Black Sea region resettled in what is now Turkey. From there, elements of that culture migrated southeastward to found the civilization of Sumer. The archaeological record demonstrates that. In Ancient times, Phrygia (north central Anatolia, now Turkey) vied with Egypt for the distinction of being the oldest civilization, and Phrygia eventually won the argument (on flimsy grounds). Geographic evidence embedded in the Garden of Eden story points to the Zagros Mountains in the same area for its origin.<br />Please read the book. It contains a lot of valuable information. However, its sweeping conclusion fails to address all of the evidence.	2003-01-24
US	52433668	RBZ5PJIYN7PJ6	0345434889	833729860	Ancient Mysteries: Discover the latest intriguiging, Scientifically sound explinations to Age-old puzzles	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Objective, even handed and well researched	This is a compendium survey of the various explanations for many an historic mystery. The writers, a historian and an archaeologist, avoid favoring either the academic establishment's party line or the antithetical views of sensationalist writers. Instead, they give a rather thorough, to the extent that information is available, analysis of the various points of view about each topic, with their critique of the merits of each. It is an extraordinary book, the best of its kind. For anyone who wants to delve deeper into its various subjects, it is a good starting point.<br />I almost refrained from buying this book owing to a negative review found here. To my satisfaction, I found those criticisms to be wholly unjustified.	2003-01-21
US	52433668	R3J6HY94JO4KIV	0786708107	476273474	Gateway to Atlantis: The Search for the Source of a Lost Civilization	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well researched	This is one of the better books on the subject of Atlantis. Its author started his research intent on supporting the screwball notion that Atlantis was in what is now Antarctica. However, he followed the evidence to where it led - the Caribbean. While his conclusions are well founded, he should also consider that what he found is only part of the answer. Recent geologic evidence demonstrates that there was an island situated at the Mid Atlantic Ridge in the North Atlantic at the end of the Pleistocene Age (circa 11,200 BP). Although there is no physical evidence that anyone lived there, it should be taken into account. Toward the end of the book, the writer goes off on a tangent about fallen angels that dampens the sound research. It could do without that but is otherwise a good read.	2003-01-21
US	52433668	R2DL9EUA9MYFEO	0750918772	802756832	Lawrence of Arabia (Pocket Biographies)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Where's the hardcover version?	This 128 page paperback version may be a good read. I don't know, haven't read it. My copy is the 946 page hardcover edition. It is thorough, balanced and an excellent read. If you can find that version, get it!	2002-07-17
US	52433668	RAPGLJA1RZS3Q	0570037921	736709762	The Discovery of Genesis: How the Truths of Genesis Were Found Hidden in the Chinese Language	Books	2	15	66	N	N	Good basic idea marred with creationist errors	The basic idea, that Chinese characters reflect influence from a source that also inspired Genesis, is interesting. However, one of the writers insists upon couching that idea within the absurdity that everything in Genesis is literally true. She assumes that Babel occurred in 2218 BC. This is sheer nonsense, since Sumer, Egypt, India and cultures of western Europe all had thriving civilizations and separate languages (all of them written) long before that, in some cases more than 1000 years earlier. Another flaw stems from the admittance that one of the words for God entails a triune character set, indicative of the Holy Trinity. Without batting an eye, she claims that this predates Christianity by more than 2000 years. It seems far more reasonable to conclude that it reflects additional characters added to the original Chinese writing during the Christian era, especially since it is one among many words that mean God. Although she claims that the earliest Christian contact with China was in the 7th century AD, that character symbol alone is evidence of an earlier, unrecorded contact. This writer is a close minded creationist who tries to force evidence that doesn't fit into a pet contention. Then she accuses anyone who refuses to accept that heavily disproven idea of being close minded! Skip the creationist drivel and examine what is quite interesting evidence on its own merits. And find out what isotopic radiation is, because it thoroughly disproves creationism and literalist interpretation of the Bible!	2002-06-06
US	52433668	R7TMX514Q1PMT	0570046351	525537816	Genesis and the Mystery Confucius Couldn't Solve	Books	4	9	28	N	N	Historic context	Hold on there, dudes. Etymology of Chinese characters does NOT prove that they independently developed a prehistory based on Adam &amp; Eve and the Great Flood. The Chinese alphabet evolved much later than Sumerian. Historians already recognize that trade brought not only the idea of writing from Sumer to other cultures but also their prehistory. All we can accurately say is that Sumerian writing and prehistory influenced the development of Chinese writing. That is not the same thing as saying that China preserved its own memory of the same events. Please do read the book, but with a healthy context rather than a wild eyed, unsubstantiated and unsupportable conclusion.	2002-05-23
US	52433668	RYG6S5TZBC4KF	0570037921	736709762	The Discovery of Genesis: How the Truths of Genesis Were Found Hidden in the Chinese Language	Books	4	6	20	N	N	Historic Context	Hold on there, dudes. Etymology of Chinese characters does NOT prove that they independently developed a prehistory based on Adam &amp; Eve and the Great Flood. The Chinese alphabet evolved much later than Sumerian. Historians already recognize that trade brought not only the idea of writing from Sumer to other cultures but also their prehistory. All we can accurately say is that Sumerian writing and prehistory influenced the development of Chinese writing. That is not the same thing as saying that China preserved its own memory of the same events. Please do read the book, but with a healthy context rather than a wild eyed, unsubstantiated and unsupportable conclusion.	2002-05-23
US	52433668	R1V3S23DZ9IMWQ	1878026089	379773722	In the Beginning: Compelling Evidence for Creation and the Flood (7th Edition)	Books	1	37	108	N	N	Isotopic Radiation	This is a creationist propaganda book. While it does a good job of reviewing all the reasons why evolution is in error, it fails to address its own glaring problems. There are 10 or 12 kinds of half-life measurements for isotopes which are used to date various types of matter. Most people are familiar with carbon-14 dating, but are unaware that there are other isotopes as well that can date organic and in some cases inorganic matter. The half-life of carbon-14, as an example, is something like 5600-5800 years. In most cases, we can estimate an age for the matter based on the degree to which the carbon-14 has deteriorated. After about 60,000 years it will be exhausted. Ergo, organic matter in which the carbon-14 is completely exhausted is at least that old. The problem for creationists is that they think the world is no older than 6000 years. The matter in organic tissues PROVES that to be completely ridiculous! That's not even to mention all of the archaeological evidence that also absolutely refutes their contentions, or ancient historical texts. By the way, I am a practicing Christian. Most Christians do not accept the fallacy of creationism.	2002-05-23
US	52433668	RI0DM9L43A3BH	1878026089	379773722	In the Beginning: Compelling Evidence for Creation and the Flood (7th Edition)	Books	1	51	112	N	N	As empty an argument as that which it attacks	This book is full of \\"apparently\\" and \\"appears.\\" Makes numerous claims and assumptions without support of evidence. Dismisses huge amounts of contradictory data because the writer has no explanation. For example, \\"Also, many marine plants require daily sunlight. How could they have survived a global dust cloud that killed the dinosaurs? Each problem can be solved by making new assumptions.\\" The fact that marine life DID survive while dinosaurs died out indicates merely that the writer hasn't figured out how. His solution is to make an assumption for which there is no evidence. Each problem can be solved by making new assumptions. Another example: \\"Besides, for an impact to change the axis this much would require a massive and fast asteroid striking earth at a favorable glancing blow. The resulting pressure pulse would pass through the entire atmosphere and quickly kill most air-breathing animals - a recent extinction without evidence.\\" Assumes that it can't be so because the writer is unaware of the evidence. Has obviously never heard of the Carolina Bays, vast evidence for a recent asteroid impact at a tangential angle. Approaches thesis with science while largely ignoring massive historic and archaeological evidence to the contrary of many of his suppositions. There is overwhelming evidence for a Great Flood, just not anywhere near the time frame he assumes. His assertions about mitochondrial DNA are as unfounded as those at the other extreme of the debate, because neither side ties their rate of mutation to archaeological evidence. 100-200,000 year model fits the archaeological evidence. Also, like his counterparts at the opposite extreme, seems to think that mutation rates are predictable, which is inherently untrue for such a random event as a mutation! Lots of inductive reasoning. Seems mostly intent on arguing against evolution, a theory which likewise has nearly as many problems as his own contentions. His logic is that if he can knock down the theory of evolution, then his own ideas must be true. Both ignore the entirety of the evidence, addressing instead only that upon which they think supports their view. His thesis fails to provide a model that explains ALL of the evidence. Rather, it makes irresponsible claims based more on myopia than scholarship. Bear in mind that Egyptologists refuse to accept Willard's recalibration of his carbon-14 dating method because to do so shows that Egyptian civilization is much older than they suppose, much older than Walt Brown wants it to be, either.	2002-05-19
US	52433668	R3GS3FB521295N	0500510504	729840444	The Seventy Great Mysteries of the Ancient World: Unlocking the Secrets of Past Civilizations	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Spotty	This ambitious tome compiles a compendium of surveys about many sometimes contentious topics, mostly from ancient history. A large number of scholars contributed in most cases one of the articles. Therein lies its shortcoming. While that would seem to insure that an \\"expert\\" provided the information about each topic, it also leaves the reader with a mixed bag of quality. Some of them are excellent, well researched, even handed and objective. Others are \\"party line\\" propaganda that ignore evidence to the contrary. None of it is wild eyed, new age [stuff], though, so it has that much going for it. It's a worthwhile buy as a basic list, but a scholarly reader should use it as a starting point for further research rather than the final word.	2002-03-30
US	52433668	RFXQ3L1ZQD8D6	1862048096	91577394	Genesis of the Grail Kings: The Explosive Story of Genetic Cloning and the Ancient Bloodline of Jesus	Books	1	17	48	N	N	Antithesis	Or perhaps it's the Bible that exposes and clearly illustrates all of the inaccuracies of this book...	2002-01-23
US	52433668	R32KPVL3ZVJL7R	0307600521	437540709	The Boy With a Drum (Little Golden Readers) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Creative, imaginative, spellbinding for my young sons	This was my sons' favorite children's book during their formative years. Intended to be read as though playing a snare drum, it uses a variety of rhythms to stay fresh throughout and hold a child's interest. Two of my sons became percussionists later in life! It also introduces the youngster to a plethora of mostly domestic or farm animals, as well as the sounds they make. This is an excellent learning tool for the young mind, especially for boys since they seem to identify with the main character better.	2001-07-05
US	52433668	R1GMW8JIUCDZRG	0812907132	131358880	The Secret of Atlantis (English and German Edition)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Best book on Atlantis	If you read any one book on the topic of Atlantis, this should be it. It's a scholarly work that covers scientific ground that no one else even thinks to tackle. In particular, the late Dr. Muck's discussion of the Gulf Stream and climatologic evidence is persuasive. (It should be tested against the hypothesis of a polar axial shift to ensure validity with regard to location of currents vis a vis the Gulf Stream. His same ideas and techniques applied to Siberia could add further weight to the axial displacement hypothesis as well, or refute it.) More recent evidence about the astronomic event that shattered a small comet or asteroid into over half a million pieces, crossed North America from Alaska and crashed into the Sargasso Sea during the correct time frame (as evidenced by the &quot;Carolina Bays&quot;) fully supports Muck's thesis and lends greater credibility to it. This out of print book should be reissued!	2001-07-05
US	52433668	RZHFPOC2NV5A3	1885395388	818907321	Flying Serpents and Dragons: The Story of Mankind's Reptilian Past	Books	1	30	48	N	N	Utter nonsense	Get this: An interstellar group of reptile people biogenetically engineered the human race, then mated with them and spawned a race of giants who dominated the surrounding cultures. They possessed space capable vehicles and weapons of mass destruction. Yet, they fought their neighbors with composite bows and iron swords, still much advanced as compared to their stone-age opponents. Uh...but why did they restrict themselves to such primitive weapons when they had such technological capability at their disposal? Were they trying to give those mere humans a sporting chance?! If they had space travel vehicles (using booster rockets no less rather than anti-gravity devices, which would necessitate knowledge for creation of lightweight metals to reduce mass for ease of thrust out of the atmosphere), why weren't they using significantly more advanced land weaponry against their rivals? This thesis makes no sense. Don't bother to read it.	2001-05-23
US	52433668	RPZ18J2F7EEI1	0208023135	571757095	Shag: Last of the Plains Buffalo (The Animal Life Cycle Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	All time favorite children's book	This was my favorite book as a child. It is meatier than the typical children's tome, and filled with simple yet real life information about the buffalo and its environment toward the end of its heyday in the 1870's. I highly recommend this for any parent who wants to introduce their child to a slightly more challenging story that will stimulate the brain and encourage a more advanced intellect, without sacrificing the charm and innocence that a children's volume also needs.	2001-05-23
US	52433668	R3FWCYIADCOE4U	1885395388	818907321	Flying Serpents and Dragons: The Story of Mankind's Reptilian Past	Books	1	22	34	N	N	Poorly researched, supported	This is an example of a writer who tries to force ancient documentary evidence to fit a preconceived and shaky hypothesis. It is full of rash, unsupported and unsupportable statements. For example, on page 209 it says, &quot;Western religions went through a rigorous process of selection and editing to remove all indications of flying vehicles.&quot; Where is the evidence for this statement? The very next sentence refutes it. &quot;This process was not always successful, however, as indicated in the Book of Ezekiel...&quot; The whole book is like that. Translations are suspect, interpretations self contradictory and amazingly flawed. We should accept that Scripture is a watered down attempt to explain the mysterious in mythological terms, but that Sumerian texts are exacting and always to be taken and interpreted literally. Has this guy considered that what he takes so literally may ALSO be an effort to explain in mythological terms something that the writers of Sumerian texts couldn't fathom in terms they could understand?! Just because an ancient carving depicts a person ensconced in feathers OR reptilian attire doesn't literally mean that there were such creatures. Yet this writer would have us dismiss the first as symbolic and embrace the second as literal! He also relies on the current faddish, secular relativist humanism (whose own agenda is biased) to support numerous erroneous and irresponsible statements about Yahweh. There is an interesting germ of possibility to pursue in evidence from ancient documents that there may have been technologically advanced civilization many thousands of years ago. That idea will be lost in the morass of nonsense in which it is couched. There are better books. Skip this and read them!	2001-05-21
US	52433668	RXTLR8LUE3KOT	0819873942	972833999	The Theology of the Body Human Love in the Divine Plan (Parish Resources)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Incisive Catholic exegesis	In conjunction with his &quot;Love &amp; Responsibility,&quot; Pope John Paul the Great's series of meditations expertly explains the foundational relationship between men and women with respect to marriage, sexuality and  morality. Not only does he expound upon the theology of the body derived  from Scripture, though, but also peripherally explains many other elements  of Catholic interpretation of the Bible. His clear, concise wisdom touches  on topics that include our covenantial relationship with God, living in the  Spirit in relation to the Law, and the relative merits of celibacy and  marriage, among many others. Theology of the Body is a &quot;must  read&quot; for every Catholic, and could be valuable for anyone else as  well.	2000-05-15
