US	52433511	R26MBVV42AWMBZ	0385507860	350211251	Don't Play in the Sun: One Woman's Journey Through the Color Complex	Books	1	12	45	N	N	GET OVER IT.	It is perfectly true that the problem the author describes exists.  I am the child of a dark-skinned black woman and an almost-white black man and I saw people look down upon and subtly denigrate my mother from the time I was a child.  I also saw her turn around and be incredibly abusive to my father and those of us children who were light-skinned in revenge every time this happened or when she even THOUGHT it was happening, making everyone in the house miserable.  And no one is writing books about the way many dark-skinned blacks, especially women, feel called upon to punish light skinned people just for existing-- I don't know how I got through elementary school, I was beat up every single day for being 'high yaller'--to some people there is nothing you can ever ever do to make up for this accident of genetics and if you are light-skinned the whole history of slavery and racism is your personal fault, even if you are only five or six years old.<br /><br />So the fault is on both sides, not just one, in my opinion and the best solution is to GET OVER IT; everybody has their issues and things that have happened to them.  I can't believe someone would waste time and write a whole book about this--and then claimed that they have actually moved on. I married a man who is as dark as my mother but is not interested in complaining about that (he likes how he looks and so do I) and who admires me for the person I am inside, not because I have green eyes or whatever else (which is so uninteresting, really, don't you think?)  I figured the best thing I could do to fix what happened to me as a kid would be to have kids and love them whatever color they turned out, and make sure they felt so good about themselves that they would have no need to pick on anybody else, and I can tell you, my three boys aren't even aware which one has so-called 'good' hair and which one is more dark--it has never been an issue in our house.<br /><br />As for my parents, my dad walked out on my mother after forty-one years of marriage one day after an argument in which she insulted him yet again--and shoved him in a swimming pool with his clothes on.  And, after  forty-one years, she claimed that he had finally walked out simply because he thought she was 'too dark'.  Is this a self-fulfilling prophecy or what?r forty-one years of marriage one day after an argument in which she insulted him yet again--and shoved him in a swimming pool with his clothes on.  And, after  forty-one years, she claimed that he had finally walked out simply because he thought she was 'too dark'.  Is this a self-fulfilling prophecy or what?	2005-10-07
US	52433511	R2X9914XY0D0J0	0375756981	583942750	The Vagina Monologues: The V-Day Edition	Books	1	34	87	N	N	Not true liberation.	I personally think that there is a little more to me than  my sexual organs.  I enjoy my body and my husband enjoys my body as a gift from God in our private relationship together.  In my opinion, those who have to scream out loud about it in the vulgarest terms possible aren't in healthy and satisfying relationships.  Lesbian relationships involving little girls certainly aren't healthy or good (make that 24 year old a man and see what you think then) and while it is important to protest the abuse of women in war situations, don't bring that into your life with all the fear and mistrust women like Eve Ensler want to promote against good, loving men.  You'll end up alone realizing that a sex toy or your fingers (or another woman) is not very fulfilling, not only in a sexual sense but in terms of what you get emotionally and spiritually in a relationship that deals with you as a whole person.	2005-10-03
US	52433511	R2MGKEM3VGVHBR	0226327647	571449696	The Antigay Agenda: Orthodox Vision and the Christian Right	Books	1	11	43	N	N	Stupid.	Rather than reading this book, suggest you read the Bible.  There is no 'anti-gay plot'--but there are a few of us out there who believe that the Bible on the subject means exactly what it says--homosexual activity is sinful (and harmful to the person practicing it).  I don't know why you would call this 'hate'.  Which is truly love--letting someone dance in the street in the path of incoming cars, or warning them that they could get killed like this and that there is another way? See 1st Corinthians chapter 6.  The Corinthians, as many in the Roman empire had many homosexuals in society very mainstreamed and instead of demanding they be stoned to death, as per Mosaic law, or other 'hate' Paul showed how they could get out of the harmful behaviour (as could the adulterers, fornicators and other sinners)and have a 'new life in Christ.'<br /><br />As another reviewer has stated, not just narrow-minded white Southern Protestant males who voted for Bush read the Bible this way--there is unanimous agreement on this in all churches who are not re-defining the Bible, that is Catholics, Greek and Russian Orthodox, black American churches, African Episcopalians..	2005-09-18
US	52433511	R2EJPZEWM36W6U	0618149147	798597356	The Empress of the Last Days: A Novel	Books	1	0	16	N	N	i like a warning about certain things, myself.	Those who enjoy reading certain things should be free to do so , of course, but it would be nice if the rest of us had some idea before we spent money and wasted time.  I don't know how the rest of the book turns out, but some potential readers might like to know that this 'literary' sounding book, once you get past the first few pages, has graphic refences to hermaphrodites, lesbians and things of that nature, using some truly filthy language.  If that's your taste, as I said, well fine, but I won't be finishing it and I am sure that there are others out there who would like to know this BEFORE they buy it.	2005-07-11
US	52433511	R1V7GR9WRFTK0J	0375726810	446299605	The Last of the Wine	Books	2	10	123	N	N	Homosexual 'romance'.	I gave it as much as two stars because the author does write well. She also clearly did a lot of research on the time and it shows.  However, if you are not into reading about glamorized homosexuality, this books gets very tired very soon.  I say 'homosexuality' but it is pedophilia, really--the protagonist, Alexis is a young teenaged boy and his 'lover' (abuser) is a mature man.  We are supposed to believe that this relationship makes the boy more mature, more intelligent, more brave, etc. etc. etc. and that this kind of thing was what made the Greeks so great (tell that to NAMBLA). Sex is not described in detail--we are just told how enobling this 'love' is ad nauseam; I guess because the book is aimed at normal people, and when you're propagandizing in the obvious way that Renault is, details that would gross most readers out are best kept hidden.  Famous names are freely thrown around and the impression that one is meant to get is that our modern society would rise to a higher cultural level if only we all got open-minded like the Greeks.  Unfortunately, in the fifty years since the book was written, we HAVE got more open-minded and what have we got?  Not Socrates (who wasn't gay, by the way, neither were Homer, or AEschylus)) but queer eyes for straight guys, AIDS and crystal meth and a lot of lobbying for homosexual 'marriage'--which even the Greeks had sense enough not to try.  Lysis may be messing around with little worshipful Alexis, but marries a woman. He wants to have children, after all.  I say a 'woman' but he actually marries a shadowy little girl.  None of the female characters in the book is much (the other main one is Alexis' stepmother) which is a little odd, since the book is written by a lesbian, but she really does seem have thought herself thoroughly into a male homosexual frame of mind (if you think that is a worthy accomplishment).<br /><br />If you really want to learn about Greek culture, I would suggest reading one of the great works from the time, such as the Iliad, the Oedipus Rex, the Oresteia, the Odyssey--none of which have homosexual or pedophilia themes by the way.  (For that, you have to stick to reading only the Symposium, where the homosexual propagandizing is all put in the mouth of Alcibiades, hardly a role model).time, such as the Iliad, the Oedipus Rex, the Oresteia, the Odyssey--none of which have homosexual or pedophilia themes by the way.  (For that, you have to stick to reading only the Symposium, where the homosexual propagandizing is all put in the mouth of Alcibiades, hardly a role model).	2005-05-23
US	52433511	R13ZCBG9Q0LD17	0312267479	325963511	Hidden Witness: African-American Images from the Dawn of Photography to the Civil War	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Precious history.	This book has photographs to treasure.  To see black people at this period of history recorded in photographs is a precious thing.  However, I must agree with the consensus that the text is worthless, which is why I didn't give the book five stars.  I was not interested in the author's guesses about these people and many times he was  actually obnoxious in his anxiety to make sure the reader saw the photographs with his spin on them.<br />Particularly moving, besides the portrait on the front of the woman and child were the memorial photograph of the dead baby, and the couple of photos of slaves  lined up in front a plantation.  It was interesting to see, although it was not the common experience that there were already so many black middle-class pre-slavery, or at least, so many blacks managed to dress up for even a one-time portrait.  I have some older photos in my family and I know from that that people put their best foot forward and rented clothes that were better than their usual ones and so forth for portraits.  Also, even in the 19th century it was possible to retouch photos and remove things that they did not want to be seen.	2004-06-25
US	52433511	R16IIG1VREFJ1B	0815605900	905894869	Sabbath	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A meaningful and thought-provoking read.	I am not Jewish (I am in fact a born-again Christian) but you do not have to be Jewish to enjoy this beautiful, carefully rendered portrait of a lost way of life.  I don't know how Ehrlich writes but the translation reads the way a Rembrandt painting looks.  The book is deeply tragic because of the awareness that people like this are very shortly going to be murdered by the millions for no reason except that they ARE, but it is wonderful in the respect that it shows them as human beings.  There is not a lot of action, but that is not the point.  I would give it more than five stars if I could--it is that good (and a good corrective to the sentimentality of Fiddler on the Roof that most people think describes pre-Holocaust Jewish life.	2004-06-02
US	52433511	R398Z8BX0QZXYF	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	2	58	73	N	N	Buddha gets lost in translation.	I wouldn't recommend this book.  Armstrong makes Buddha 'accessible' by making him as much like a contemporary sceptical Western intellectual as she possibly can, even when she has to contradict herself to do so. (Example: she keeps saying that he didn't believe in any 'higher power' but then she quotes texts which refer to his belief in Hindu gods such as Brahma). She also does not care about historical proof. Not only doesn't she have a bibliography (as some other reviewers have mentioned) but she behaves as if Karl Jaspers' theories about there having been an Axial Age are fact and she extrapolates wildly about life in Buddha's time with no source material.  An unwary reader might get the idea from her preface that she is a scholar in Pali or Sanskrit--read the last paragraph carefully though and you realize that she just paraphrases other people's translations. Bhikku Nanamoli's LIFE OF BUDDHA ACCORDING TO THE PALI CANON was her main source (though she never gives him credit) and I would suggest that someone who really wants to learn about Buddha without her Oprah-like take on his ideas, should just read that book. (It's sold right here on Amazon).  I notice that the reviewers who admire this work here all say \\"I don't know anything about Buddhism and she explains it so well\\" but as I said before they should be aware that her 'explaining' is just Westernizing and modernizing him in a way that is inaccurate.  Would Buddha REALLY have thought that the tempter Mara was just another facet of his own psyche?  And what would he have thought about the way she discusses meditation (with extreme nervousness and suspicion) when that was at the very center of his ideas?<br />I am personally a Christian but was a seeker for a long time first before the historicity and logic of the Bible made me a convert. I think it is a good thing for people to look at good ACCURATE descriptions of other religions if they are looking to make up their minds about faith.  I studied Buddhism in Asia with a teacher who later became a Buddhist nun before I decided that it wasn't for me.  From what my teacher taught, and from the intensive reading that  I have done on this subject (I teach Buddhism now as history) this book is just not accurate.in Asia with a teacher who later became a Buddhist nun before I decided that it wasn't for me.  From what my teacher taught, and from the intensive reading that  I have done on this subject (I teach Buddhism now as history) this book is just not accurate.	2004-05-19
US	52433511	R1JI9A6VQH6JQ1	0310248736	540813688	The Wager	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thought-provoking.	This combination of the Book of Job and the Sermon on the Mount worked surprisingly well.  Myers doesn't fall into cliches or easy answers.  It's a bit of an odd idea to combine a novel and a bible study, but if you're not interested in the Bible study, you don't have to do it. It might be interesting.  But the book works well as a book without it.<br />The only thing that I didn't care for was the ending, which seemed a bit unrealistic.  I don't want to give away too much so I will only say that the career change didn't seem necessary.  However, the character of Steele was well-done, the book was funny and the idea of trying to live by the Sermon on the Mount is certainly a good one. I would read more by this author.	2004-03-14
US	52433511	R3AJY34P33AYWU	0895552108	768664945	The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ: From the Visions of Anne Catherine Emmerich	Books	2	17	51	N	N	Seemed rather silly to me.	I read about 1/3 of this book.  I read what I did because I liked the Mel Gibson movie so much.  The woman did have a vivid imagination and I can see that she was useful to Gibson for visual details to fill in parts of the script where the Gospels were silent.  Many of the scenes with the Virgin gained visually because of this book. (I especially like the one where after the flogging, the Virgin and the Magdalene mop the up the blood).  However, this book is not scripture and it is a shame to take what went on Emmerich's imagination as being as valid as what is in the Bible. After all, she lived 1800 years later and is not exactly an eyewitness.  I would recommend reading the Gospels carefully instead of concentrating too much on this book. If you like a more sensible semi-imaginary treatment of the Passion, which is very interesting and a little less overblown, you might try The Day Christ Died, by Jim Bishop. You might also try reading The Robe, by Lloyd C. Douglass and Quo Vadis, by Sienkiewicz, which are good books as well as good movies.<br />Just a note: I didn't find any anti-Semitism in this book. I dislike prejudice in any form very much and take it quite seriously, but have been quite disgusted at the way that people who clearly only want to attack Christianity have been using the cry of anti-Semitism as a way to attack anything to do with the movie.  It is dangerous to cry wolf, and I think that such people are hurting Jews in the long run as many will take legitimate complaints about anti-Semitism much less seriously after this ridiculous display of over-sensitivity. I also think that Jews will end up taking the brunt of this, although many of the people crying anti-Semitism (and actually the people who started making the noise) are actually not Jewish; they are liberal and secular 'Christian' scholars.	2004-03-14
US	52433511	R1UIHI6VRJG0GY	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	Beautifully done.	Other readers have commented on the movie as well as the book.  I want to comment just on the book.  It might seem that there is no need to buy the book if you have seen the movie (which I thought was wonderful). But when you see the still photos you can appreciate, in a way that you can't in the theatre (because you are so pulled into the story) how gorgeous the movie is.  Many of the stills look like paintings and are reminiscent of Rembrandt and Vermeer as well as Caravaggio. I only regret that there were not even more photos.  I wanted one of the scene where Mary holds Christ in the pose of Michelangelo's Pieta, for instance.  However, there was a good selection.	2004-03-14
US	52433511	R1CDO6WMVK4A6V	0849943728	822018095	Three	Books	1	14	27	N	Y	Don't bother.	I don't want to write a spoiler review.  And without giving away the plot totally, I can't say very coherently exactly what I didn't like about this book.  But I do feel the author cheated.  Instead of concentrating, as I expected from the blurb and the other reviews, on the issue of being forced to face one's greatest sin, in public, the book sank into cheap psychological nonsense that had nothing particularly Christian about it, in spite of the tacked on sermons of the hero's friend who was a pastor, close to the end. The author writes in a way that keeps you turning pages, if you like thrillers; it is just that the premise of the book is fundamentally flawed.  And worse, disappointingly boring. I won't read another Ted Dekker book.	2004-03-14
US	52433511	R3NRC6I5CGPVT2	0691015309	213838940	Foamy Sky: the Major Poems of Miklos Radnoti (Lockert Library of Poetry in Translation)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	If you love poetry this is for you.	Radnoti was one of the great twentieth century poets.  This would be true even if his story was not one of great poignancy and sadness. He wrote his last poems on a forced march during the Shoah (Holocaust) and ended his life shot into a mass grave with those final, brilliant poems in his pocket.  They were discovered when he was exhumed and reburied after the war.  These translations capture his music in English. I have found them to be indispensable to me. Besides their great beauty, they say something important about the human spirit. This man defined himself as a poet and refused to let others define him, in the worst possible circumstances. This is an inspiration to us all.	2004-02-09
US	52433511	RVKBVFWC36L2Y	0899661130	920549529	Green Dolphin Street	Books	5	134	135	N	N	Moving and enlightening	I read this book to shreds when I was a teenager.  It is quite old-fashioned in its setting, but the strong story and the personalities could never be old-fashioned.  The two sisters, Marguerite and Marianne, are very different and represent two different possibilities for a woman's life. Strong-minded Marianne's personality is more stylish according to the standards of today, but gentle Marguerite has a strength and wisdom of her own that one could also learn from.  The part where the sisters talk to each other as old ladies is one of my favorite things in all literature.  I also love the depiction of the (really clueless) character William that the girls are both in love with and how he grows as a man, even though he is never that bright.  If you read this, you won't be sorry.  As one reader noted, there is some silly thinking about people from other races in certain parts of the book, but although I am black, I found this only mildly annoying and I think it can be easily skipped over.<br />And one of the most interesting sections in the book is when Marianne is forced to live as a Maori and learns a great deal of respect for them and their way of life, in spite of herself.  The destruction of their culture is presented as a tragedy, in a very thoughtful way.<br />Goudge was a very intelligent writer and should be better known. You need to read this book with an open mind; the characters don't behave as we are taught to expect to in the late twentieth century, but there is much to think about and much to learn. Certainly it will make you question some of your assumptions about women's lives.	2004-02-03
US	52433511	R3N2YDLA8ELFNJ	0140059156	951028418	Brideshead Revisited Tv Tie In	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Picture of salvation.	This book is not written in accordance with current literary tastes.  It is descriptive to the point where it is florid sometimes; the writer's politics and elitism can easily offend(he is thoughtlessly snobbish towards characters such as Hooper); and he is describing a vanished world that can be difficult to understand--the sort of aristocrats he describes do not exist anymore and maybe they shouldn't exist (one could reasonably call them parasites).  However, the same things could be said about many of the novels that are most worth reading (think of novels from nineteenth century Russia for example).  The sensitive reader will soon realize that Waugh is talking about the human condition in this book and showing the necessity of faith, as all that they have materially cannot satisfy these people.  They still have a void that can only be filled by God and God pulls them, no matter how much they try to run away from this fact.  These are real human beings who are involved in definite sins such as adultery; homosexuality (though it is unclear whether Sebastian and Charles have a physical relationship, the homoerotic undertones in their relationship are very strong, and there are several other openly homosexual characters);alcoholism runs rampant; the narrator has the sin of pride.  However, God has grace to handle all of it, and Waugh brilliantly uses Dante's philosophy of human love (including the sinful love such as the adultery and that with the homoerotic element) leading human beings towards the divine love which it is a mirror of.  He will make you uncomfortable and challenge your late twentieth/early twenty-first century ideas of moral relativism as he is very uncompromising about what is right and what is wrong and believes in such unstylish things as 'sin', 'redemption', 'duty' and 'sacrifice'.  However, he NEVER preaches. The depiction of Sebastian in his later years is one of the most moving things, I think, in all literature, as he describes the destruction of his beauty and his grace in the alcoholism, shows what a total wreck he has made of his life by worldly standards, and yet lets you feel that he has achieved something else with his pain, which is the salvation of his soul.  And so there is hope for Julia, for Charles and for all of the other extremely flawed people in this novel.  In a world that seems to be dying (one of the best things about the book is its depiction of the world at war).<br />Maybe some of us could use some of this message in a world in which so many more people, not just the 'aristocrats' but also the 'Hoopers' of the world (at least in Europe and America) have so much financially, and are spiritually so miserable.  And don't even realise that our disease is spiritual, or if we do, try to salve it with easy, patched-together counterfeits of religion that can do nothing for us, like people taking pleasant-tasting placebos instead of real medicine.on of his beauty and his grace in the alcoholism, shows what a total wreck he has made of his life by worldly standards, and yet lets you feel that he has achieved something else with his pain, which is the salvation of his soul.  And so there is hope for Julia, for Charles and for all of the other extremely flawed people in this novel.  In a world that seems to be dying (one of the best things about the book is its depiction of the world at war).<BR>Maybe some of us could use some of this message in a world in which so many more people, not just the 'aristocrats' but also the 'Hoopers' of the world (at least in Europe and America) have so much financially, and are spiritually so miserable.  And don't even realise that our disease is spiritual, or if we do, try to salve it with easy, patched-together counterfeits of religion that can do nothing for us, like people taking pleasant-tasting placebos instead of real medicine.	2004-01-21
US	52433511	R1JIHQQ7CRITFT	0373250398	4380043	The Princess-in-Training Manual/Divas Don't Fake It	Books	1	4	4	N	N	TOTAL WASTE OF MONEY	Don't bother. I bought this silly pair of books thinking I would be amused by some tongue-in-cheek humor and dry wit. Instead, I was bored to death. The Princess-in-Training Manual dragged and dragged, had no plot to speak of, and seemed to be a book made to advertise designer brands that are mass-marketed, but that actual princesses do not wear, full of lots of seventh grade level French (incorrect seventh grade level French. I couldn't believe the mistakes that were made in basic  French in this book).  However that was better than the Divas Don't Fake It, which was full of filthy language and obnoxious characters. Who want to read a book which has its point that women should learn how to swear like sailors and abuse men? (The main character seems to think that she is brave and interesting because she can say the f-word and throw her fiance's books out of windows as well as embarrass him in front of family members. Think about how it would seem if a male character were behaving the way she does). I would give this book no stars, if that were an option.	2003-12-16
US	52433511	R2T23XOUS7OGY9	0679761640	476200848	The Makioka Sisters	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great classic.	Tanizaki set out, during the war years, to write a book like The Tale of Genji, in tribute to what was best about the Japanese past.  The amazing thing is, that he succeeded.  He was able to transfer the spirit of the Japanese masterpiece (which is also a world masterpiece) in modern times and delicately describe a whole civilization which had really been destroyed, even before the war was lost, in the dreadful militarism that caused the war in the first place.  This book is beautifully written.  As other readers have noted, it does go slowly.  So does War and Peace. So do a lot of the other novels that really make you think about life, and love and important issues.  The book echoes the leisurely pace of the Makiokas' lives and is very nostalgic--but it is realistic too and does not depict the old society as perfect. Each sister has her own, fascinating character.  They do not easily fit into stereotypes.  Particularly interesting to me is the character of Taeko, the youngest 'modern' sister who will not (or cannot) behave like her more decorous sister Yukiko, the perfect 'traditional' Japanese woman--who can't get married.  Taeko behaves very badly by the standards of her time--and very normally by our standards today.  It is interesting to see the tension, and the ways in which her behavior affects everybody around her.  Not only are the sisters interesting, but there are many very wonderfully drawn secondary characters, like Saeko's cultured husband, and the foreigners, the Russians, the German family with the two children--<br />Just as interesting as the people though are the customs and the culture.  There's cherry-blossom viewing, and a firefly hunt and descriptions of how to wear kimonos and many very wonderful descriptions of Taeko's traditional dance-- It's all a whole different mindset than the way we live today. Really civilized.  And yet, at the same time, the Japanese army is committing the horrific atrocities in Nanking--<br /> I would read this first, and then Genji, if you haven't done that (you'll really go back to another time). Also best, I think, in the Seidensticker translation.<br />Someone who likes this will probably also really like In the Shade of Spring Leaves, a translation of the stories of Higuchi Ichiyo, along with a biography of a fascinating woman who died way too young.and then Genji, if you haven't done that (you'll really go back to another time). Also best, I think, in the Seidensticker translation.<BR>Someone who likes this will probably also really like In the Shade of Spring Leaves, a translation of the stories of Higuchi Ichiyo, along with a biography of a fascinating woman who died way too young.	2003-10-22
US	52433511	R5H7YBPP47EBV	0385479646	630084340	Bound Feet & Western Dress: A Memoir	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	One side of the story.	Natasha Chang writes well and the book was interesting.  However, this is only one side of a very complex story.  Telling only Chang Yu-i's story makes her husband, Hsu Chih-mo (Xu Zhimo) look very bad, and it is quite unfair-- how many of the readers would like to be married off at age eighteen to someone they never had never met and had nothing in common with?  Xu thought that by having a public divorce, he could make a protest against this unfortunate custom, and in fact, young people in China today can be grateful that he and some others did stand up to the social pressure that made people accept this treatment for centuries.<br />Unfortunately there is no biography of Xu in English and his poems are not translated very well, so it is difficult for readers to find out more about this exceptional man.  There is a movie called April Rhapsody which tells some more of the story of the divorce that readers might be interested in, if they can find it with English subtitles.<br />Unfortunately most of his wonderful poetry is not translated very well, or not translated at all.  It would be a shame if this book was the only exposure that people had to him and his work.  Notice that Youyi didn't hate him, in spite of the divorce; she buried him and cared for his parents.  Natasha Chang was very young when she wrote this book and it shows-- people are more complicated that she seems to think.	2003-10-11
US	52433511	R3SNSY5G8PO82I	0020425651	400011174	The Dark Is Rising Sequence: Silver on the Tree; The Grey King; Greenwitch; The Dark Is Rising; and Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	1	62	209	N	N	Anti-Christian series of books	I don't believe in censorship, but I believe parents should be aware of what their children in this age range (9-12 years old)are reading and should be informed about the content so that they can discuss the book with their child.  These books are presented as being about the battle between good and evil and it would be easy for a Christian parent to believe that their child is reading something along the lines of the Narnia books and it just isn't so. THESE BOOKS ARE PAGAN.  Cooper writes beautifully and intelligently and the story is very gripping, but she is deliberately presenting a pagan world view.  She goes back to Celtic myth (that is nowadays being recycled as Wicca and other forms of neo-paganism) and presents a view of the world that is outside of the Judaeo-Christian tradition and the fact that she does this so compellingly, makes it urgent to discuss this with your child if you do not agree with the religious beliefs that are in these books.<br />This is made very clear in scenes like the one in the church in THE DARK IS RISING, when the dark powers have been defeated by the powers of the 'Old Ones', and the rector attributes this to the cross, which is a sign that the character Will Stanton is carrying.  Another Old One makes it clear that this particular cross was made 'before Christ.  When the rector says that it was not made \\"before God,\\" the child reading this book is told that there is not before and after, just infinity.  And that 'all the Gods' (plural) exist in infinity.  Also very non-Christian is the behavior of the character Merriman (who represents Merlin) towards the character Hawkin.  \\"This is a cold battle we are in, \\" he says, \\"and in it we must sometimes do cold things.\\" Therefore, without telling Hawkin he is doing this, he is ready to sacrifice Hawkin's life to protect a book that Will needs to read.  When Hawkin realizes that Merriman whom he loves is prepared to let him die he betrays the 'light' that is willing to see him sacrificed like this, without even telling him first, after he has put his trust in it.  Not only is the philosophy \\"we must do cold things\\" entirely anti-Christian, but this Hawkin section is an obvious hit at Christ and his sacrifice.  One should also be aware that Susan Cooper, the author, has stated in interviews that she intended this series to be Arthurian, but did not use Arthur because the idea of his death and return to save England is too reminiscent of Christianity, and she believes that in this modern age, we need to get away from thinking we need a Savior and to realize that 'the only thing that can save us is ourselves.'<br />If you believe that we have all sinned and that we DO need a Savior and would not like to be part of a religion which believes that people can be coldly sacrificed without their permission for some greater good (if you don't believe that Celtic religion was based on this idea, you need to do some serious reading about bog sacrifices and sacrifices burning people alive in wicker cages and other things in the history of this religion that the modern practitioners generally do not discuss), maybe this is not the series of books that you or your child want to read.  It is really a shame, because as I stated before, Cooper writes beautifully, I wish she had a better message.like this, without even telling him first, after he has put his trust in it.  Not only is the philosophy \\"we must do cold things\\" entirely anti-Christian, but this Hawkin section is an obvious hit at Christ and his sacrifice.  One should also be aware that Susan Cooper, the author, has stated in interviews that she intended this series to be Arthurian, but did not use Arthur because the idea of his death and return to save England is too reminiscent of Christianity, and she believes that in this modern age, we need to get away from thinking we need a Savior and to realize that 'the only thing that can save us is ourselves.'<BR>If you believe that we have all sinned and that we DO need a Savior and would not like to be part of a religion which believes that people can be coldly sacrificed without their permission for some greater good (if you don't believe that Celtic religion was based on this idea, you need to do some serious reading about bog sacrifices and sacrifices burning people alive in wicker cages and other things in the history of this religion that the modern practitioners generally do not discuss), maybe this is not the series of books that you or your child want to read.  It is really a shame, because as I stated before, Cooper writes beautifully, I wish she had a better message.	2003-07-13
US	52433511	R39AWNLSQHI3E4	0435988441	62444248	Beka Lamb (Caribbean Writers Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	One of the best!	This is a lovely, lyrical coming-of-age story that I think that most people who like to read would enjoy.  It meant a lot to me especially because I was born in Belize, but came to the United States at a very young, and don't really remember this place that my parents and other relatives constantly talked about.  BEKA LAMB described that Belize of former days and while not varnishing over the hardship, the poverty and the poor choices that women had there also showed the beauty of life in a close-knit community with its own history and rituals (many of which I know are now lost).  I have been reading sections to my mother, a native Belize creole; she recognizes everything from the Sunday walks to the funeral customs and is very delighted with the book.  But I don't think the book would only appeal to people from a Belizean background.  It is also one of the best-done coming-of-age books I have ever read, which really delves into the minds and souls of two young girls (Beka and her friend Toycie) who are at a crossroads and will make choices that take them in very different directions.	2002-10-28
US	52433511	RUUL2QMZR05L1	0435989278	515941504	In Times Like These (Caribbean Writers Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Not up to Edgell's first effort.	Edgell can write beautifully and this is a good book in many ways, very interesting in the way it describes the transition of a small country from colonialism to independence.  However, I didn't really like the actual plot.  Pavana Leslie's problems didn't grip me -- I felt as if she needed more common sense in her personal life and by the time I got to the melodramatic ending (involving a couple of shootings and the kidnapping of her children) I was bored.  Edgell's BEKA LAMB is a true masterpiece, in my opinion, one of the best books of the twentieth century, worthy of being placed along with the writings of Derek Walcott and V. S. Naipaul (both Nobel prize winners).  I gave IN TIMES LIKE THESE four stars, because Edgell cannot write badly -- the descriptions in this book are wonderful and the political points that are brought up are tellingly made and would apply to a lot of 'developing' nations, but if a plot that grips you is really important to you as a reader, this probably would not be your favorite book.	2002-10-28
US	52433511	R3GHCD32U6A9ZJ	0312169590	869010333	Our Man in Belize: A Memoir	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Could have been better.	Conroy is funny and the book is very readable, but I didn't give him a higher rating because I didn't think he tried very hard to know the people of Belize, or the country itself.  He has a lot to say, all true, about the poverty and the governmental inefficiency when he was there, but didn't notice any of the natural beauty or the native culture(s) in this unique little place. He got really distressingly cold-blooded when he wrote about Hurricane Hattie, a tragedy in which there was great loss of life, and seemed mostly concerned that he wrecked his boots!  If you want to know Belize, I would recommend that you read Zee Edgell's fine book BEKA LAMB, which is a nice antidote for Conroy's fin-de-colonialism attitude in this book.  Conroy's attitude is reminiscent of Evelyn Waugh in this book, but although he is (almost) as cruel, he is not half so funny.	2002-10-28
US	52433511	R2ZYQUB8SPV17D	0486298450	408108299	Tudor Costume and Fashion (Dover Fashion and Costumes)	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Good resource!	Depending on what you want to do.  It won't show you how to sew anything.  However, it does have great pictures in clear black and white showing what people wore in all different classes of society from about 1485 to 1601, carefully documenting changes in high fashion and also showing differences in different countries (England, Spain, France, Germany).  I could recognize many of the portraits he used, as a historian of the time, but his drawings made what was actually being worn more clear than in portraits.  You couldn't sew a costume just using his pictures, but if you had a pattern from somewhere else, his pictures would make it look more accurate. For details of sewing techniques, and photos of actual period clothes .I would go to Janet Arnold.  I think that they  supplement each other well.  But neither is really a pattern book (except maybe if you are much more advanced than I am).	2000-09-27
US	52433511	R3J383U1INGPAI	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Keeping up the high standard!	I bought the first Harry Potter book for my young son (then 11 years old) and we both got hooked on the series. I found that this 4th book met the high standard of the others -- perhaps even surpassed them in some ways.  Rowling departs from the structure she used in the first three by beginning  this one with a Quidditch match (a World Cup) and in many other ways  throughout this book, which is indeed, as she has told us, darker than the  other ones in terms of what happens by the end.  But not so dark that it is  unsuitable for children in any way, in my opinion.  Perhaps very young  children couldn't handle it (aged under 7 or so) but if you would read your  child a Grimm's fairy tale, you could read this to them.  The book,  however, works on other levels besides fairy tale, and would be interesting  to adults.  Without giving any of the plot away, I can say that the  descriptions in this book of life under Voldemort will strike anyone as  psychologically true, if they are familiar with life under the various  police states in the 20th century and Rowling makes a powerful plea for  tolerance as she includes many characters from countries other than England  in this book.  However, the book doesn't become heavy at all -- her sense  of humor is marvelously intact, as are all the little magical details that  make the series so special, ranking in my opinion with the other great  fantasies of the twentieth century -- Tolkien, Lewis, Lloyd Alexander and  The Never-ending Story.	2000-07-11
US	52433511	R1VC1GN03W74ZF	0802047432	405786731	The Sherborne Missal	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Beautifully done!	This book is a great value for the money, for those who enjoy beautiful illuminations and medieval art.  The Sherborne Missal, though not well-known is a wonderful example of late medieval British art.  There are  many color illustrations included, as well as a description of the missal  and its history, and this book is a great value for the price that I am  glad I bought.	2000-05-31
US	52433511	R3R1Z775LQ463Z	0374115435	774225373	A Book of Memories: A Novel	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Confusing and not very rewarding read.	I was very disappointed in this book, which was hailed as being like Proust, like Mann, Joyce, etc.  I didn't find the depth of any of these authors in this novel; it was confusing and difficult to read.  Maybe this  is because I don't understand enough about the last three decades behind  the Iron Curtain.  But the book did not illumine them!  To me, it just  seemed to go endless and boringly into the characters' sexual pecularities.  This sounds as if the book would at least be sexy, but it was not.  There  was a lot of material that I felt could have been interesting -- the whole  plot line about one narrator and his father, who was involved in the  repressive regime, for instance.  But the way it was presented, I just grew  more and more confused and bored.  I much prefer other Hungarian literature  I have read, such as Moricz's BE FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH and anything by  Kozstolanyi, but these books tend to be harder to find.	1999-07-05
US	52433511	R3TGGITMT03V5X	0452010055	121900974	The Satyricon (Meridian Classics)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Difficult read, but all in all, worth it.	This is not really a book.  There's not enough left of it for that!  The only  coherent section is &quot;Dinner at Trimalchio's&quot;.  However, that section is really something. The person who wrote it was a satiric  genius.  What is interesting is that the ancient Romans were not so  different from us.  Trimalchio could be a modern businessman, out to  impress people with his wealth and culture and his circle of friends are  investment banker yuppie types from the 1980's, except in the first century  A.D. The whole thing is very funny and very sad.  It is also quite vulgar,  and the lack of morality in the Roman Empire at this time could also remind  you of the lack of morals in current American society. Not only in terms of  sex (though no one under 18 should be reading this book) but in terms of  common decency, kindness, etc.  I would recommend the book to adults, but  the reader should be aware that it's disorienting to read, with all the  missing sections, if you want to get anything out of it beyond  Trimalchio.<br />P.S. Those who have the patience to read literary criticim  will find the discussion of this book in Erich Auerbach's MIMESIS to be  very interesting and enlightening.  It puts this book in context in our  Western culture.	1999-07-03
US	52433511	R3PUEGVIZW1ZJ3	0192832468	364227732	The Complete Odes and Epodes (The World's Classics)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Enjoyed this book.	This book was a revelation to me.  I don't have any background  in Latin but have always enjoyed reading literature, especially poetry.  No one had told me what an influence Horace had on the English and French poetry that  I have always enjoyed!  I kept recognizing things that later writer copied  and imitated from him, because he is so lovely.  He also is a great poet  for a thinking person to read.  Mature and interesting. The translations  seemed to be good.  I had a friend who reads Latin listen to a few and she  said they were very accurate.  When she read the original aloud to me, they  sounded much more lovely than the English.  But I suppose that is normal.	1999-07-03
