US	52433885	R2M0E7NUCR05CR	0385334583	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Mr. Baldwin goes to France	It's possible that James Baldwin's main strength as a writer is his ability to be subtly insightful.  He gets his ideas across without overpowering the reader with them.  Much of the imagery that he uses in this novel is very poignant when considering the plight of both the main characer and Giovanni.  That is, when considering the main character's inability to accept certain truths about himself, and the ramifications that has for others (I suppose, himself included).  <BR>  While this book only occasionally sustains the lyrical flow that made Go Tell it on the Mountain so very distinctive, it's more daring in it's approach and subject matter.  Very few writers would be able to handle the ebb and flow of personal denial and hard realization as gracefully and naturally as James Baldwin does.  So, in a sense, what it gives up in style, it more than makes up for in content; which isn't to say the style of writing is bad (I wouldn't have given it five stars if it was).  Compared to most other writers, Mr. Baldwin has a fluid, insightful pen.  I'm simply basing my stylistic comparison on the near songlike quality of prose in Go Tell it on the Mountain (which I also highly recomend).  Also, while toned down quite a bit, there are quite a few religious referances throughout this novel.  So, If you have read, or studied the Bible, that layer will be readily apparent.  It might also be a good idea to have an English to French dictionary with you (or at the very least a handy French student whom you can reference). This novel has an abundance of untranslated French snippets.  <BR>I would recomend this novel for anybody who is interested in the struggle to resolve one's sexual identity.  I would also recomend this to anyone who is interested in sexual politics.  Although I wouldn't necesarilly lump it together with the books written by the expatriates (Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Stein etc), anyone who likes those books may enjoy the European flavor of this one (with all of it's little snippets of french).	2002-07-11
US	52433885	R2WWF8JT6WC5VZ	067972544X	300513421	Barabbas	Books	4	5	9	N	N	The story of the Acquitted	Barabbas Is an excellent novel concerning belief in religion (or, at the very least the desire to believe).  It chronicles the life of Barabbas, the man who was freed in place of Christ.  From the moment he's let go, he decides (is drawn) to follow the condemned to Golgotha, where they are crucified.  There he witnesses the darkening of the sky upon Jesus's death.  This event effects Barabbas so deeply, that he attempts to contact those who followed this crucified man;  He desires to learn more about them and him.  In his journey for answers, he meets a hare-lipped woman dressed in ragged clothing.  They are both at the tomb of Jesus Christ when he rises (or is said to have risen) form the grave.  The Young lady claims to have seen angels swoop down and lift his body in a blinding flash.  Barabbas, however, saw no such thing.  He believes that someone must have simply stolen the body while he was distracted.  This is Barabbas's main struggle.  He rejects the supernatural, believing instead that all of these phenomena (The darkness at Golgotha, the hare-lipped girl's account of the rising) have worldly explanations.  Yet, he desires to believe.  He desires to be a part of this new religion.<br />  This theme is shown again later in the novel in the slave pits.  Having been enslaved by Romans, Barabbas works in a mine (chained to another slave).  He finds out that this slave is a Christian.  This fellow has the name of Jesus Christ scratched into the reverse side of his slave tag (the tag that tells who he belongs to).  The meaning of this being that the slave's soul belongs to God.  Barabbas asks this fellow to scratch the symbol into the reverse side of his own tag.  Yet, Barabbas refuses to pray with his fellow slave.  Instead, he stands guard while the other prays.  This again shows his desire to believe, yet his inability to truly do so.<BR>   I think that, as a subject for a novel, the choice of Barabbas was an interesting one.  For Barabbas is a very easy allegory for one of the main ideas of Christianity.  Barabbas the Acquitted:  Christ died on the cross in his place (for his sins, you might say).  He serves as a sort tangible embodiment of human sin.     <br />  It's difficult to talk about this book without discussing religion.  It does, after all, deal with Biblical figures; and it deals with themes of belief and disbelief.  Those of you who prefer to stay away from religious matters, or materials with religious content, probably won't think too highly of this book. However, I would strongly advise against completely disregarding it on those grounds.  It is an excellent idea, that is very nicely executed.  It's also a thought provoking book.  It gives an interesting look at what the early, underground, Christian movement may have been like.	2001-12-08
US	52433885	R3RWR1GWK5FP5I	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	873	899	N	N	Brilliant account....	The first section of this book (which makes up over half of the text) consist of Victor Frankl's account of his experiences in the concentration camp.  This section seems unique among the Holocaust accounts that I've seen and read because Dr. Frankl approaches the topic from a psychological perspective.  He discusses the ways in which the different prisoners react to their (note: men and women were seperated at the camps, so Frankl is mainly disscussing his experiences with the men in Auschwitz) imprissonment.  He writes about the psychological effects of being completely dehumanized; of losing even your name, and becoming simply a number.  Also he disscusses the effects of not being able to contact loved ones, or even know is they are still living. Another issue that Dr. Frankl talks about in this book is the idea that none of the prisoners of the concentration camp had an idea as to when there imprissonment would end (if ever).  Thus, they were faced with the thought of living the rest of their lives as workers at the camps.  Dr. Frankl discusses how people can find meaning to life in these conditions.  He also describes how finding meaning in life, or a reason to live, was extraordinarilly important to surviving the camp.<br />  One of the most interesting, and disturbing, issues in the book was the idea of the Capo.  These were were people put in charge of their fellow prisoners, in order to keep them in line.  Dr. Frankl describes these people as, often, being more harsh than the actual guards.  This seems to be a disturbing lesson in the abuse of power.  This also goes along with Dr. Frankl's discussion of how the camps brought out the true personality of the people within it (after all the social trapping had been stripped away): The cretins, the saints, and all of those in between.<br />  The second half of the book is made up of two sections &quot;Logotherapy in a Nutshell,&quot; and &quot;The Case for Tragic Optimsism.&quot;  These two sections basically describe Dr. Frankl's theory on as to how to conduct therapy (Logotherapy).  The idea behind this therapy is that man is driven by his search for a meaning in life.  This differs from the psychoanalysis perspective (driven, at this time, by the ideas of Sigmund Freud) in that the psychoanalytic school believed that humans were driven by their unconscious desires.  For Frankl, the need for meaning seems to outway the unconscious.  In fact, he goes into detail about the negative effects that the abscence of meaning, or what he calls the &quot;existential Vacuum,&quot; has on people. To illustrate many ideas, he often uses his experiences in the concentration camps, as well as various cases for treatment (which help to solidify his view of life, and therapy).<br />  I would recomend this book to almost anybody.  I feel that it's interesting, and worthwhile.  I would especially recomend this to people interested in psychology, as well as those who wish to learn something about the experiences within the concentration camps.	2001-11-26
US	52433885	R14Q9JOZ2TVPGC	0140112456	640424062	Forty Stories (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	A good, if a bit uneven, collection	This collection has many great short stories within it.  Often, within this book, Barthelme shows himself to be an extremely creative and insightful writer.  &quot;Jaws&quot; is a good example of this.  Basically, it's a story about how people deal with their dissatisfaction in relationship; how lovers cope with  significant others' inevitable inability to meet all their (the lovers') expectations.  It follows a workers at a local A &amp; P while he mediates the relationship of two customers (who are married to each other).  He acts as a sort of counciler in their marriage.  The interaction between the couple is extremely humorous, and yet  very sad (as, I suppose, dysfunction can often be).  It's an excellent piece of work, and it deals with a common theme throughout this collection:  The dissatisfaction of couples in long-lasting relationships.  &quot;Chablis,&quot; &quot;The Genius,&quot; and &quot;Paul Klee...&quot; are also all excellent short stories.  They exhibit Barthelme's ability to be humorous and yet still get at an interesting/serious point (that is, not lose himself in zaniness).<br />   After such praise, however, I must admit that this collection isn't without flaw.  Out of the forty stories that are included in this book, I felt that about ten of them could have been pruned away.  These stories (for example, &quot;On the Deck,&quot; and &quot;Blue Beard&quot;) seemed unfulfilled, and worse, overwritten.  These, perhaps could have used a little more focus on content rather than style.  It's  true with almost any collection of short stories that not all of them are good, enjoyable, or interesting (that is, not all of them will catch your imagination).  However, with this book there seemed to be quite a few of those.  So despite the fact that many of the stories in this collection are great, I'm only giving it three stars.<br />  I would recomend this to anyone in search of a humorous, challenging read. I would also, recomend this to someone who is interested in cutting edge, stylized short stories (after all 25-30 of them in this collection are very good).  Many of the short stories in this collection are written in an unusual manner.  For instance, &quot;The Bodygaurd&quot; is compose almost entirely of questions.  I'm also of the opinion that those of you who like both Kurt Vonnegut jr. and Thomas Pynchon would find this collection interesting.	2001-11-25
US	52433885	R343SDV4POCHYE	0312265050	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The Japanese Theater	Perhaps the most interesting aspect of this book is the way that Norman Mailer handles the narration.  Instead of having a first person perspective, or a third person perspective with one main character, Mailer focuses on a sort of group consciousness.   That is, he switches back a forth between different characters within the US combat force throughout the invasion.  Thus, you might be following the I and R platoon on a patrol at one moment, and then be whisked back to the general at headquarters.  The reader is given a panoramic view of the invasion of Anopopei.   Given the wrong writer, this method could have been a complete mess.  However, Mailer handled it brilliantly, giving all of the characters personality, and depth.  The book unfolds very slowly, as a the reader is introduced to all the members of an invading platoon (the Intellegence and recon platoon).  At the end of many of the chapters are little subsections titled &quot;Time Machine.&quot;  These sections serve as a sort of flashback to each individual soldier's personal history (each person only gets one time machine section).  These subsections help to humanize these characters, as well as to show the forces that have shaped them (economics, class, education, etc.).  The scenes also let the reader view the negative and possitve sides of each person:  racism, sexism, cowardice, bravery, empathy, and compassion.  The members of the platoon become rounded (flawed) people.  This initial process of introducing the reader to these characters is extraordinarily important at the end of the novel.  <br />  Another interesting aspect of this book is the way that it shows the internal structures that hold these people together.  It examines the idea of hiearchy that the military survives on.  That is, it looks at the relationship of men of different ranks to each other (officers to enlisted men, general to lieutenant, etc.).  How does having control over a man's destiny effect you?  How does it effect the manyou control?  In all, it seems that these internal struggles are among the most important of battle.  In order to keep an army together, you must be able to control it.  In fact, for me, one of the most interesting interactions/conflicts in the novel is between Lieutenant Hearn and General Cummings.<br />   In all, the story is very interesting.  I would recomend it to anybody who has an interest in World War Two, or simply war stories in general.  However, I would caution that this is not a shoot 'em up, action adventure fest.  It's a sort of study on how war effects those who have to fight it.	2001-11-12
US	52433885	RLQIUXNWKM4GF	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Oh, Antonia!	Willa Cather's MY ANTONIA is perhaps the best novel that I've read about the western pioneer families.  The two families that the novel focuses on are the Burden's (of whom the narrator Jim is a part) and Antonia's Bohemian household.  The story follows the relationships of these two families (in particular the relationship of Jim and Antonia) through jubillant, wonderous, sad, haunting, and even pathetic times.  It shows the need for humans to reach out and contact others --the necessity of the bonds of friendship.<br />    Perhaps the relationship between Jim and Antonia is more important within the story than that of the families as a whole. They are the unbreakable links that hold the two families together (especially in times of quarrelling).  They are the victory of friendship over all the aesthetic and cultural barriers that keep people apart.  The story follows their progression together from children playing in the fields, to scandalous young adults who partake in weekly dances, to their eventual acceptance of adulthood.  Throughout the novel there is that wistful (perhaps nostalgic) sadness that tends to follow such a progression. Tangled in this progression is Jim's love (not altogether brotherly) for Antonia.  He comes to see her as a sort of embodiment of womanhood;  that by which others are judged.  However, I'll let you get into that aspect of it, if you decide to read this book (which you should). <br />    For me, the best part of this novel was Cather's writing.  She illuminated the landscape, and brought each of the character's to life.  Many of the scenes in this novel will be forever imprinted in my mind because of their immense beauty, their grotesque horror, and their profound sadness.  Perhaps the best example of this is the short tale of a group of people returning from a wedding on dog-pulled sleds when they are set upon by a large pack of wolves (this short story takes place in Eastern Europe, by the way).  This scene is written so well that it inspires a sense of horror, as well as exhileration.  This is how much of the book is; it reaches out powerfully to the reader.  <br />    Honestly, I would recomend this novel to anybody whose in the market for good fiction.  However, I think that those who are interested in the family life of the west should take a look at this one (in particular, those who like the writings of Wallace Stegner, and John Steinbeck).	2001-11-11
US	52433885	R1NTKZVIP97WEK	0140440550	341351753	The Ethics of Aristotle: The Nicomachean Ethics (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	18	31	N	N	excellently constructed, but weak in application	The first thing that a reader must understand is that The Nicomacean Ethics is a series of lecture notes.  This accounts, in part at least, for the dry quality of the writing.  It's wasn't really meant to be a polished piece.  yet, Aristotle puts his argument together well.  He goes into great details in defining his terms.  He also builds his arguments upon each other (a kind of constant construction of logic).  Since many modern philosophers (popular and otherwise) work with the idea of ethics, this particular writing may seem a bit like common sense.  <BR>   The basic idea is that the actions that a person takes are directed at a good (or goal).  That goal ineveitably is happiness (read happiness as fullfillment in life).  It doesn't really matter whether the individual has a correct sense of what true happiness is, he/she will work toward what is perceived as happiness.  To Aristotle happiness is the contemplative life, as well as following the golden mean.  The golden mean is the middle point, or virtue, that sits between the excess and ascetism.  Thus, to Aristotle a person should neither drink, or eat, too much, nor should he/she drink, or eat too little.  What is this mean, you might ask. Well, it differs in regards to the individual.  That is, what might be just right for an average man  (let say in terms of food) may be too little for an athlete.  So, this really isn't a very effective universal measure of virtue and vice.<br />   From this set up, Aristotle extends this idea into different catagories (money, personal interaction, drinking, etc).  Later, he goes on to define justice, and how the just person should act.  He also goes through the qualifiers, and disqualifiers, of just acts --and justice, in general. Personally, I felt that this was the weakest section of his argument.  It seemed dotted with oversights, and exceptions.  He, however, seemed to recover in the later books which concerned the roles of freindships, which he breaks down into threekinds.<br />  I think that this book is usefull in evaluating your own life.  Many of the ideas contained within it are thought provoking.  However, I think Aristotle is too vague (despite the fact that Aristotle states that you can't expect exact answers out of a philosopher) to be of any practical use.  His idea of the mean seems so arbitrary that it bends to individual perception.  For instance, a man/woman who loans a friend a large sum of money may find his action to be one of simple generosity.  However, another , who holds onto money more tightly might see this lender as a foolish spendthrift.  This idea works only on an individual basis (or based on individual perceptions)  This seems like a weak basis for a code of ethics.<br />  One of the great stregths of this edition is the introduction, which does an excellent job of explaining the terms that Aristotle uses throughout the work.  It also give a general overview of the work.  I would recomend this to anyone who's interested in moral philosophy, or simply ancient philosophy.	2001-11-05
US	52433885	R1TNYI2J4AV54B	0679738568	217345729	Woman Hollering Creek: And Other Stories	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Short stories that sparkle	Woman Hollering Creek is a powerful collection of short stories from Sandra Cisneros.  One of the main strengths of her writing is her ability to make her characters (especially her first person narrators) very accessable.  She is able to get into the minds of, and portray, many of her characters in a very lifelike way.  She seems especially adept at dealing with the children in her stories.  For instance, the story &quot;Eleven&quot; (one of the many gems in this collection) is the account of a little girl on her eleventh birthday.  It deals with helplessness of a child in the face of an authoritive adult.  It also looks at a childs preoccupation with the opinion of his/her peers.  Cisneros manages the tale in such a way that it seems inevitable that the reader will identify with the girl.  That, in itself, is a sort of mastery of craft.<br />  These stories range from impressionistic, two-page shorts that read like poems, to longer, more detailed accounts of relationships.  As with any collection of short stories, there are those that are more successful than others (in other words those that you'll relate to better than others).  However, all of the tales have a sort of vivid life to them; and, in all, I think that this is a very well rounded collection.<br />   Perhaps the only real point of difficulty that readers may face in this collection is Cisneros' use of spanish phrases throughout the book.  However, don't let such things discourage you.  Many of these phrases can be understood within the context in which they are written (so they aren't too much of a stumbling block).  Also, these stories are too good to let a few words discourage you from reading this book.  I would recomend this book to anybody who is interested in the struggles of childhood (especially that of minority children), as well as the pains and pleasures of intimate relationships.  I would also recomend this book to lovers of good, colorful short stories.	2001-10-31
US	52433885	RU5SGGVL9JDIV	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of Vonnegut's better books	Breakfast of Champions is one of Vonnegut's more light-hearted pieces.  However, the book does have serious comments on society, life, and the interaction of people.  The story follows two characters:  Mr. Trout, a science fiction writer; and a car salesman by the name of Mr. Hoover. Kilgore Trout has been summoned by Elliot Rosewater (who is also the main character in Kurt Vonnegut's &quot;God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater&quot;) to be the guest of honor at an arts festival.  Quite suprised that anyone even knows he exists, Mr. trout sets off across the country to attend the event.  Along the way, Vonnegut treats the reader to a variety of Trout's short story ideas (most of which sound like either bad, or really obscure science fiction).  At the same time, the story follows Wayne Hoover's dysfunctional sturggle to make it through life as an automobile salesman.  The story focuses both men as they progress towards, and eventually converge on the arts festival.  Many characters that appear in this novel also appear in other Vonnegut novels, making it an excellent introduction to Kurt Vonnegut's work.  <br />    Among the many minor (or mini) themes that Vonnegut offers the reader throughout the book, a major one emerges.  He seems to say that people should be careful of what they say, or write, because we effect other is ways that we can't even imagine (both negativelly and possitivelly).  Often times we are, and remain, unaware of the consequences of our actions.<br />    There is also another aspect of the novel that is noteworthy:  The illustrations.  Mr. Vonnegut weaves rather simple drawing into the actual text of the story (often for a humorous effect).  These illustrations often take the place of verbal descriptions.   For the first hundred pages, or so, this style is interesting.  However, after that it grows old, and begins to seem like an easy way to avoid describing objects.  This, however, is my only complaint concerning the book.  I would recomend the novel to any Kurt Vonnegut fan.  I would also recomend this as an introduction to Mr. Vonnegut's work, or to a person who loves humorous stories.	2001-10-30
US	52433885	R14RVDHNA2N2HW	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Perhaps Fitzgerald's best	This novel's best point is Fitzgerald's writing style.  Having such a light and lucid pen, Fitzgerald manages to describe scenes in such a way as to make them come to life.  He is also very subtle in his use of sarcasm (mostly demonstrated through the narrators remarks on those around him).  This ornate style is in contrast to the spare quality of the plot.  Basically, the story follows Nick Carraway's involvement in the relationship between Jay Gatsby and his --Gatsby's-- long time love (who is a married woman).  It plays out in a way that is very similar to Greek tragedies (imagine Oedipus Rex).  However, simple this may sound, it plays out in an interesting way, and is somewhat refreshing when compared to the modern day four-plot-twist-per-book style of writing (not to say that there aren't good modern writers; there are, of course).<br />Another interesting aspect of this book is the idea of wealth, or the idealization of wealth.  All of the characters involved in this story are either bent on gaining, or flaunting money.  Gatsby throws lavish parties, and drives around in a distinctive automobile.  Nick is looking to earn a fortune in the supposedly limitless city of New York. Fitzgerald even lays down a sort of classist line (through Gatsby's lips, I believe):  &quot;The rich get richer, and the poor get children.&quot;  It follows that within the book there are thin, nearly invisible, lines drawn between all the characters of different classes.<br />  I would recomend this novel for anybody who is interested in clever writing. I'd also recomend this to anyone who's interested in the expatriot writers.  For while Fitzgerald is in contrast to Hemingway, they almost seem to compliment each other in defining the time period.  I would also recomend this to anybody who's interested in classic american literature, for it is very much a hallmark American story.	2001-10-22
US	52433885	R1AFVJQZRHNVC9	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A lesser work by a great writer	In following the last days of Simon Bolivar as he leaves office and heads into the abyss, Gabriel Garcia Marquez leaves the reader with a story that seems incomplete.  Although the language is beautiful (as it always is with Marquez), the story seems to lack the precise coherance of his other novels.  It is simply a tale of a man drawing closer to the time of his death, as well as a country drawing closer to dissolusion.  Throughout the novel Marquez moves back and forth between the General's past glories and his present condition.  However, he never finds any point that necessarilly connects the two.  That is, they are almost completely seperated from each other, having very little effect on each other.  The flashbacks are like reminiscences that do very little to move the story forward.<br />The story had a interesting premise:  The final journey of Simon Bolivar.  The images that Marquez brings forth are extraordinarily vibrant.  However, the style didn't seem wholly appropriate within the context of historical fiction.  Instead in bringing to life historical facts, and making the characters come alive, Marquez's style seemed to turn the General into a caricature.  His ailments seem far too exagerated to be at all real (although I realize that they are supposed to be symbolic).<br />  Although I've written a good deal of negative criticism up to this point, this isn't a terrible book.  It simply doesn't measure up to Gabriel Garcia Marquez's other works (eg. &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude,&quot; and &quot;Love in The Time of Cholera&quot;).  One possitive aspect of the novel is the way that the political tension is handled.  It seems very true to the struggle for power once a longstanding power leaves office.  In this aspect, I think Marquez hit the nail on the head.<br />I would recomend this novel to anybody who is interested in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's work.  If you already like him, then I think that you'll find this book to be rather pleasant.  However, if you're unfamiliar with Marquez, I would recomend trying out one of his other novels (again &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude,&quot; or &quot;Love in the Time of Cholera&quot;).  I would also recomend this to anybody who is interested in Latin American history, or even just historical fiction.  So once again, it's not his best work, but it's not bad either.ver, if you're unfamiliar with Marquez, I would recomend trying out one of his other novels (again &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude,&quot; or &quot;Love in the Time of Cholera&quot;).  I would also recomend this to anybody who is interested in Latin American history, or even just historical fiction.  So once again, it's not his best work, but it's not bad either.	2001-10-18
US	52433885	R1K5V1XUEA7TG1	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A worthy second stab at the story	When I was half way through reading &quot;I, Claudius,&quot; I decided that I had to pick up this book in order to finish the series.  It basically carries on where &quot;I Claudius&quot; leaves off, and finishes the story.  It not as intriguing a read as it's predecessor though.  Most of the really interesting action takes place before the begining of this book.  However, this book does have it's moments, and, in a sense, is necessary in order to conclude the story of Claudius.  The most interesting sections of the book, were the ones dealing with Britain, and Herod Agrippa.  I was very suprised at the amount of detail that Robert Graves went into concerning the cultures of the ancient British civilizations.  It is readily apparent that Graves had done his homework for these sections.  Also, Herod Agrippa (a friend of Claudius) takes up a great deal of this book.  Thankfully, his story is fairly interesting (as are all the events that take place in the Middle East during this novel). <BR>  <BR>One possitive aspect of this book is that it seems to have more of an international perpective than &quot;I, Claudius.&quot;  That is, it focuses on happenings throughout the empire, while it's predecessor is more focused on the imperial family.  Thus, it gives the reader a better idea of the immensity of the Roman empire, as well as the power of it's emporer.<br />  Judged by itself, this is a very fine book.  Robert Graves was able to write in the same engrossing style that made the first book so memorable.  The only reason that this book isn't quite as good as the first one is that there simply wasn't the same material to work with.  I would recomend this to anyone who has read the first book, and is interested in the second half of Claudius' life.  However, if you haven't read &quot;I, Claudius,&quot; pick it up first.  I would also recomend this series (Both &quot;I, Claudius,&quot; and &quot;Claudius the God&quot;) to anybody who is interested in either Imperial Rome, or historical fiction.	2001-10-13
US	52433885	R2308INQDOIQU1	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent, well worth the read!	I, Claudius is perhaps the best work of historical fiction that I've ever read.  Robert Graves couldn't have pick a better topic for a story.  The book is so filled with political intrigue that it's very difficult to put down.  Told from the Claudius' perspective, the reigns of Augustus, Tiberius, and Caligula come alive in a way that no historical tome can ever get across.  Graves takes the existing accounts of this time period and adds meat to it.  While some of the occurances in the novel can be called into question (as historians often debate on what really happened), Graves writes in such an engrossing way that those questionable items seem forgivable.  Also, it is apparent that Graves has studied, in detail, the facts concerning these emporers, and any inaccuracies (or accuracies) are the results of decisions he's made concerning the truth of the facts available.  In that sense, this is a very admirable book.<br />Don't let all this discussion of history fool you into thinking this a dull book.  It's not.  The characters are so well developed, and involved in so much political intrigue (and violence), that it is quite a page turner.  Honestly, I can't say enough good things about this book.  I'd recommend it to anybody whose interested in in Rome, historical fiction, or simply good fiction.  I have a hard time imagining someone coming away from this one displeased. Enjoy!	2001-10-12
US	52433885	R2QL8WPSWCZOMA	0060674407	508823103	The Illustrated World's Religions: A Guide to Our Wisdom Traditions	Books	5	58	60	N	N	an excellent introduction to religion	In this book Huston discusses many of the major world religions, or systems of belief:  Christianity, Judaeism, Islam, Hindism, Animism, etc.  The Neutrality in his approach to these religions is refreshing.  He's able to discuss the beliefs and practices of each of these religions without saying that one, or the other is necesarilly correct.  Thus, the book doesn't get bogged down in discussing the truth claims of any one religion.<BR>  <BR>   Huston has obviously done a great deal of research in the area of World religions.  This work is an interesting and informative guide to understanding why people believe what they believe.  In each section he gives a brief discussion of the history of each system of belief (for instance, he talks about Siddhartha's life in the section about Bhuddism).  He then continues to discuss the main points, or fundamental beliefs, of each religion.  In these discussions, Huston is concise and incredibly informative.  Again, it's very obvious that he's done his homework.  I found all of these sections very illuminating.<br />   All of the major branches of religion are repressented here (both oriental and occidental thought).  That doesn't necesarilly mean that all of the offshoots of any particular religion are repressented --that would probably lead to a much larger, more cumbersome work.  With this in mind, Huston's book is an excellent source of information on the various world religions.  I would recomend the book to anybody with an interest in religion.  It is an excellent tool to help you understand the world, and is well worth the read.	2001-09-26
US	52433885	R2C87ZEX9W6322	0679733736	126207643	The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays	Books	4	30	31	N	N	excellent background on a writer's philosophies	The Myth of Sysiphus deals with what Camus calls the most important question a philosopher can ask: &quot;is life worth living?&quot;  The possitive answer is to continue living, while the negative is to take one's own life. Camus discusses the relation of the &quot;absurd world&quot; to a person's decision to live.  He also describes, in some legnth, what he means by the term &quot;absurd world.&quot;  Basically, he's talking about the world as having no meaning by itself.  Man attempts to give meaning to the patterns, and chaos that he sees.  So, the absurd is humankind attempting to relate to, and explain an inexplicable existence.<br />He says that a person (at least those who are willing to think about their world) will inevitably be faced with a situation in which the world seems to become meaningless.  This is what brings up the inevitable question... &quot;is life worth living?&quot; Camus comes up with his own answer to this question.  <br />  This isn't as accessable as his fictional pieces ( e.g. The Stranger, or the Plague), however, it does give you excellent insight into the philosophies that run throughout his other Novels.  So, if you are already a Camus reader, I would highly suggest reading The Myth of Sysiphus --and then reading his other works again.  However, if you haven't been exposed to him yet, I would recomend starting with The Stranger before reading this.	2001-09-23
US	52433885	R1EHZF2JCVPVZQ	0802150837	676781547	The Wretched of the Earth	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Colonialism from the other side	Fannon's Wretched of the Earth is an interesting look at the relationship between a colonized country and it's colonizer. He also discusses the inevitablity of the overthrowing of the colonizing government by the people it rules. He states that this uprising must inevitabley be violent, For while the colonist is profiting from it's oppression of the colony, it will not willingly give the ruled country up. Fannon approaches his subject matter from a neo-marxist perspective. That is to say, the colonizer (in this case France) holds all of the means of production, and seeks to maintain it's power over the Colonized (in this case the Algierians). However, according to Fannon, the Algierians will eventually become aware (or, since this was written some time ago, did become aware) of their oppression, and will rise up against their oppressors.<BR>Fannon also discusses the difficulties, and inherent problems in replacing the deposed government. He discusses the struggle for power that follows (different groups scrambling to gain the means of production). He also, describes the proper course that the country should take in order to rule itself properly. In doing this, Fannon seems to have a fairly realistic view of government struggle. He points out that the transition is going to be difficult. But he has high hopes for Algieria taking it's place on the world stage.<BR>It's also interesting that Fannon is writing for Algierians. This isn't some manifesto aimed at France, or Europe in general (although he does criticize Europe). So, perhaps this book might be looked at as a handbook for many of the countries that threw off the shackles of colonialism around this time (perhaps even today).  So,in some sense, it might be looked at as an attempt at Praxis.<br />The latter portion of the book consists of a series of case studies concerning the effects that the end of Colonialism had on the people within the country (both French and Algierian people). Basically, this section is an example of the human reaction to the atrocities commited both by the colonial regime, and by the revolutionaries.<BR>In all, I would recomend this to anyone interested in seeing Marx's ideas in a more contemporary context. I'd also recomend this to anyone with an interest in revolution and political violence.	2001-08-31
US	52433885	R3T2AMLN2ZQDEA	0684801450	673130510	Death in the Afternoon	Books	4	4	5	N	N	interesting piece	In Death in the Afternoon, Hemingway describes the sport/art of bullfighting. His knowledge of the bullfighting is extensive enough to show the writer's passion for his subject. He discusses many of the greater Matadores of his time (most of these figures are from the twenties and thirties), and explains what seperates one from another. He describes the Matadores in such a way as to show them as either dynamic, courageous figures, despicably cowardly men (who only fight in order to fulfill contracts), or as tragically deficient faliures. It is a pity that none of these people still fight, for Hemingway gives you such insight into their personalities and styles that it would be wonderful to actually see them in action. That is one major stregnth of this book, it connects the reader to the men in to ring. Hemingway's passion for this sport, as well as it's performers, is transfered to the reader. In that sense, it's a very personal book. Hemingway also goes into detail as to the structure of bullfighting. He discusses the roles played by the various figures (the Picadores, bandelleros, and the Matadore himself) within the arena. With great lucidity, he goes through the process of a bullfight: From selection of the bull to it's death at the hands of the Matadore (or the Matadore at the horns of the bull). Thorugh anecdotes, and frank discussion, Hemingway lays out the foundation of how a bullfight is properly performed (by every single member of the bullfighting team). He also points out the consequences, and disappointment, of a poorly performed match. Overall, this work is very enlightening in terms of the structure of bullfighting. The only negative aspect of this book is that Hemingway wrote it so long ago. Thus, his encyclopedic knowledge of the bullfighters is almost wasted (for none of them fight today). That's not too much of a negative though. In all, I would recomend this book for anyone who is interested in learning more about the structure of bullfighting,and also anyone who is interested in Hemingway (it gives you a certain amount of insight into his beliefs, and character).	2001-08-28
US	52433885	R3INM3SJP8I6U9	0813334721	828923730	Social Theory : The Multicultural and Classic Readings	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent anthology	This book is an excellent survey of social philosophical thought. It consists of selections from the greater works of Social philosophers like Karl Marx, Max Weber, and Emile Durkheim. All of the major figures who have formed sociology into what it is today are repressented in this book --in their own words, no less. It enables the reader to pick up an understanding of the philosopher's and their ideas without having to trudge through eight, or nine different tomes (thus it saves you the daunting task of taking on all three parts of Marx's Kapital). In addition to the major figures in sociology, this anthology offers a great deal in the way of alternative voices. For instance, Both Franz Fannon, and Herbert Marcuse have sections within this book. Thus, you have the classic philosopher, and reactions to them all in one book (e.g. Marx, and Marcuse's take on Marxism in modern society). For anybody interested in social theory, this is definetly one of the better books I've found on the subject. I would recomend it to anyone interested in sociology, or social philosophy. It gives excellent, and broad coverage of it's subject matter.	2001-08-26
US	52433885	R3IAGE0XK1OG7L	0684841215	371916423	Something Happened	Books	5	7	9	N	N	the labrynth of the mind	This is, perhaps, the most complex of Heller's writings that I've read.  It's structure is so tight and intentional that upon subsequent readings, each chapter becomes almost symbolic in and of itself.  This book deals, in the first person, with the personal and professional life of Bob Slocum.  He seems to be a very disillusioned fellow, and, at times, comes across as completely callous.  However, there is more to this story than the simple ramblings of an unhappy man.  It's deeply rooted in psychology (especially Freudian psychology).  This is where the structure of the book comes in to play.  For Heller deals with a lot of Freud's theories (which I won't necesarilly get into here), and almost all of them are repressented somewhere in this book.  A common critical complaint about this book is that nothing actually happens (in terms of physical action).  If you give this novel only a surface reading, you're likely to come away with that very impression.  However, if you look closer (or even read this novel a few times), you'll see that there is definite psychological and symbolic action.  Something happens (although it may not be readily apparent).  Although Something Happened is not as humorous as Heller's earier work, Catch-22, I think that it is a far more rewarding piece, in the long run.  It, in my opinion, has more depth to it, and is highly underrated because of it's lack of physical action (or drama).  If you decide to pick this book up, be aware that it isn't the comic piece that Catch-22 is.  Whatever humor exists in this novel is dark and jaded.  It's far more likely to be disturbing than funny. However, as I've said earlier (and by the five stars I gave it), it's well worth the read.  I would recomend this book to anyone who has an interest in psychology, as well as in Freud.	2001-08-24
US	52433885	R1Z5NMIBO7SD20	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	6	7	N	N	political science for those interested in the inner workings	As a Journalist Hunter S. Thompson is by no means impartial.  Instead of striving to give an unbaised account of events around him, he writes thing exactly as he sees them.  That's the whole point though.  In a sense, it's also a large part of what makes this book so very interesting.  Thompson doesn't give the reader a glossed over &quot;Road to the Whitehouse&quot; view of politics; his book gives the reader a chance to look at the underbelly of those fat cats who scramble for votes every four years.  It captures one aspect of elections that most people don't even really think about.  Instead of jumping straight into the Nixon-McGovern battle for presidency, Thompson begins with the primary campaigning.  He focuses on the turmoil that occurs within a party when it is trying to choose a suitable candidate.  In this case, he looks at all the various democrats who were rushing to face the incumbent: Nixon.  Thus, we're allowed to look at the political landscape, and know who the primary and secondary actors are.  It allows you to see how Muskey and McCarthy were important then in the same sense That McCain and Forbes are now. For me, this was the most valuable part of the book.  However, the actual contest between Nixon and McGovern is interesting, and worth reading as well.  Fear and Loathing on the campaign trail is twisted , and hilarious.  At times (if not all the time), one wonders just how trustworthy all the accounts that Thompson is feeding you are --the unreliable narrator.  However, whether you chose to believe him, or not, his passion for the political scene is unquestionable.  For all of his drug induced ranting, Thompson has a certain profound nature about him.  His knowledge of the political figures of the time is extremely impressive.     I would recomend this book for anyone interested in the political process, or political involvement with the media.  Through Thompson's coverage, you can see the profound effect that mass media has had on the porcessof electing the president of this country.	2001-08-20
US	52433885	RL2FOLQYROGUV	0452010829	495564556	Naked Masks: Five Plays (Meridian)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	fantastic	After reading these plays, I can understand why Pirandello won the Nobel Prize.  All of the plays deal with illusion and reality in ways that contemporary writers still struggle with. Both Six Characters in Search of an Author, and Each in His Own Way play with the idea that the audience willfuly suspends reality in order to watch a play (or a movie for that matter).  He plays with the idea that what something appears to be is as important, if not more important, that what it really is.  Again, illusion versus reality.   Although all of the plays were interesting,and entertaining, the two standouts were &quot;Six Characters...,&quot; and &quot;It is So! (If You Think So).&quot;  The former deals with an acting troupe that is approached by six characters who have been conceived by a writer, but not fully realized.  The Characters attempt to get the manager of the troupe to write their script, and thus give them artistic life.  &quot;It is So...&quot; deals with the nature of how we know what we know, and how we decide what to believe in terms of what is real and what is not.<br />The only problem with this collection of plays (and the only reason that I didn't give it five stars) is that in the introduction to &quot;Six Characters...&quot; the editor discusses &quot;Six Characters in Search of an Author,&quot; &quot;Each in His own Way,&quot; and &quot;tonight We Improvise,&quot; as a trilogy.  He takes the time to discuss the relationship between these plays, and yet &quot;Tonight We Improvise&quot; is omitted from the collection.  Thus, we are left with only the first two plays of the trilogy.  What makes it worse is that they are both excellent plays (making me wish I didn't have to scrounge up another book to get the third).   Other than that, this is an outstanding collection.  Eric Bentley (the editor) writes an informative introduction to Pirandello, and adds Pirandello's own thoughts on &quot;Six Characters...,&quot; as well as biographical information on theplaywrite, in the appendix. I would recomend this for people who are, or aren't familiar with the work of Luigi Pirandello.  It's definitely worth the read.	2001-08-15
US	52433885	RYFI1Z9C08I24	0810108402	747123287	Lucifer Unemployed	Books	2	2	3	N	N	not so wonderful	Many of the stories in this collection have interesting concepts behind them.  However, most, if not all of them, suffer from Wat's rambling style.  At many points in his stories, his style seems overwrought, and it simply serves to obscure the meaning (not in that possitive &quot;Faulkner&quot; way).  The pick of the litter here is the story of the isle of Kings.  In it, Wat seems to state that a society cannot exist in a vacuum.  In order for it to grow, it must come into contact with other societies (cultures).  Thus, man left to his own devices eventually devolves into a barbarianism.  Many of the other stories have good ideas behind them (like this one).  However, I found this collection, and it's author's style cumbersome, and unenjoyable.  I would recomend it only if you are either previously interested in Wat, or if you're deeply (and I do mean deeply) interested in European existentialism.	2001-08-14
US	52433885	R2ZUXGEK43L7L	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Something of a disappointment	Despite the fragmented style of this book, it is very easy to read.  At times it's also very humorous in that all of the charactors are grotesque exagerations of people.  The problem with this book lies in the writer's constant use of plot twists. There are so many woven into this story that, eventually it becomes like a bad Dickens novel (not that Dickens wrote any bad novels).  Everything in the story is so intertwined, so coincidental that as it progresses, it becomes less and less believable.  It almost seems as though Palaniuk is trying to outdo his previous works --trying to remain shocking to his audience.  By doing this though, he handicaps his story.  While his style is interesting, and the story is pleasant to read (it could easily be read in a day, or two), I think that in trying to compete with his earlier novels, Palaniuk made a lesser one.   If you are interested in This particular writer due to a certain movie starring Brad Pitt and Edward Norton, I would suggest reading his earlier novels (Fight Club, and Survivor)instead of this book.  This one is, in my humble opinion, the weakest of the three novels.	2001-07-30
US	52433885	R2ONUGQFPTXVSQ	0385333811	135167504	Wampeters, Foma & Granfalloons: (Opinions)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Vonnegut for a Vonnegut reader	This collection is probably most interesting to those who are arleady Vonnegut fans. It doesn't really even pretend to contend with the writer's greater works.  I think that, perhaps, this book is most helpful to those who already know Vonnegut's body of work, and simply wish to understand more about the author himself.  &quot;Wampeter's, Foma, and Granfalloons&quot; basically consists of Vonnegut's public speeches, as well as various essays.  The book can help a reader, already familiar with Vonnegut, understand more about the writer, and the ideas behind his novels.  However, I would recomend that a first time reader pick up one of Vonegut's actual novels (Slaughter House five and Mother Night are higly recomended) before looking at this.  I would recomend this book to an avid Vonegut reader/fan.	2001-06-26
US	52433885	R12RLVKV02ERZP	0385334141	735242912	Mother Night	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Perhaps Vonnegut's best attempt at dark humor	Mother Night is perhaps the darkest of Kurt Vonnegut's novels in terms of it's storyline and sense of humor.  Most of the humor within the book comes from Vonnegut's use of situational irony.  The main character, Howard Campbell Jr., spent WWII as a double agent.  He was a fairly famous German radio personality (dispensing all sort of pro-Nazi propoganda), and did his best to raise German morale during the war.  At the same time, he was sending out coded messages for the allied troops over the radio.  When the end of the war came, the US wouldn't aknowledge his part as an agent.  Thus, Campbell became a war criminal.  The novel, in large part, deals with Campbell's treatment after the war.  This is where the irony comes into play.  I won't go into what happens to Campbell (so as not to give away crucial elements of the plot.  However, when reading, it is as Vonnegut states earlier in the book: be careful what you pretend to be [sic], for what you pretend to be is what you are. This story sticks out amonst Vonnegut's works as one of the most original, and suprising of his books.  It is also a good introduction to the philosophies that are embodied in most of Vonnegut's other books.  I believe that this particular novel is a good starting point for anyone interested in Vonnegut.   (aside: do you ever feel like one of those little kids from Reading Rainbow when you're doing a book review?)	2001-06-24
US	52433885	R19T4VXXCREGYW	0156188767	735319378	The Collected Stories of Katherine Anne Porter	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Interesting view into the mind of a writer	One of the most interesting aspects of this collection of Katherine Anne Porter's works is that it allows the reader to witness the matureation of her writing style.  The small and often personal actions and thoughts of her characters drive these stories (instead of plot).  The intimacy, and insight she writes with oftens reminds me of Emily Dickenson.  They both have the ability to show how individual events, or moments can profoundly effect a person.  Porter's word play is often sharp, and very carefully chosen.  A reader who isn't paying close attention to what she's saying can miss important themes within the stories. The Pale Horse, pale rider section was my favorite part of the book.  Porter's style comes to life in the extended format of these stories.  If your not up to going through this whole book, then I'd recomend picking up Pale Horse, Pale Rider by itself.<br />overall I would definitely recomend this book though.	2000-12-10
US	52433885	R1LHW7PREE2UBN	0375420576	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a worth-while read	One of the most impressive aspects of this novel is Grass's wiriting  style.  Superstition, supernatural event constanly leek into the real world  (thus this book is often called a magical realism piece).  It's interesting  to compare this work to those by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.  While using very  similar techniques the two writers (Grass, and Marquez) have obviously  different cultural backgrounds.  As stated before, this novel isn't for the  faint of heart.  However, it's worthwhile, so don't be faint of heart.	2000-08-11
US	52433885	R2CIAG3YQ2RQWD	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A majestic wonder	This is probably my favorite of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's works.  In this book he is able to map out his charactors with idiosyncratic humor and a poignancy.  Somehow every detail, no matter how unrealistic, seems possible. when you read this book, think about the differences between how  people are perceived and how they really are.  Also, think about the  differences between our (people) ideals and fantasies, and the realities of  our world.  just a thought.	2000-04-11
US	52433885	R2YXFK9X2C6RT1	0812216539	229974461	Sophocles, 1 : Ajax, Women of Trachis, Electra, Philoctetes (Penn Greek Drama Series)	Books	2	11	13	N	N	hmmm.	These stroies are worth reading,but the translations in this book are fairly bland.  In fact, the translation for Ajax is pretty bad.  I don't think I've ever seen the word twinkie used in a Greek trajedy before. I  would recomend picking up other versions of these plays.	2000-02-16
US	52433885	R1A7XD7AV2V83J	0345421914	819859702	Echoes of the Fourth Magic (Chronicles of Ynis Aielle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a quite overlooked little book	while this book is by no means R.A. Salvatore's best, it is a good story.   It's sequel, &quot;the witches daughter&quot; (i think- it's been a while),  is even better.Anyone interested in Salvatore's work will like this one.   However, it's not the first thing of his I would recomend to anyone.  But  hey, life long you have plenty of time to read (unless you'r killed by a  thousand pound Mack truck tomorrow), be sure to pick this one up.  It's  pretty good.	1998-10-06
US	52433885	R2XJAAEUJ7QUVF	0684841215	898253795	Something Happened	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a harsh yet rewarding book.	This book at times can be difficult.  Both because of what the narrator  says, and because of the author's writing style.  Mr. Slocum (the  protagonist of this book) is amazingly similar to the main charactor of  Albert Camus' book &quot;the Stranger.&quot;  They are both estranged from  society, and see it in an emotionless light.  Many of Slocum's thoughts and  decisions, although cold and often unheroistic, are on some level  understandable.  Liking &quot;catch-22&quot; doesn't necessarily mean  you'll like &quot;something happened.&quot;  the writing style is very  different.  Also the humor is very different.  Instead of  &quot;catch-22's&quot; absurdist irony, most of &quot;something's&quot;  humor is very dark and sadistic.   This book's greatest affect on you is  after you've put it down.  The more you think about it afterwards, the more  you get it.  Although more difficult to read than his earlier work it's  infitely more rewarding.	1998-10-01
US	52433885	R36PSRTI1WO4VJ	0716733870	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	4	2	6	N	N	hmmm.	Shermer's book is very interesting, and well worth reading.  If it does  nothing else it makes you think -Do you agree with Mr. Shermer or not?  He  explains the mind of the skeptic very well (or at least what a skeptic  should be ideally), but occasionally fails to live up to his own standards  of scientific impartiality.  He's very quick to dismiss other peoples  beliefs as untrue.  However, you can learn a lot from what Mr. Shermer  aspires to be: a scientific thinker.  his section on the on the fallacies  of logic is an excellent thing to keep in mind when reading any work  (including Mr. Shermer's).  enjoy	1998-09-28
US	52433885	RK80F36FY9FMU	0385485883	422151462	A Crack Up at the Race Riots	Books	3	0	1	N	N	a mixed bag	A crack up at the race riots has scenes which cause your to break out in a  snearing smile.  Mr. Korine's snippets are ironic and clever (except for  when they are pointless).  However that is all they are, snippets.  Reading  this book is like getting a peek at someone's personal thought notebook.   It's random, dissorganized, and generally pointless, but it's interesting.   If there is any over-riding theme to the book, it's probably the triteness  of everyday life (or situations).  It kind of has the same mood as Ellis'  less than zero.  Korine has promise.  Maybe if he organizes his little  stories, he become a literary force.  However, until then his books will  remain a mixed bag.	1998-09-27
