US	52439791	R1CKOTD919DZMT	0194361977	216465693	The Oxford Picture Dictionary English/Arabic: English-Arabic Edition (The Oxford Picture Dictionary Program)	Books	3	50	52	N	N	Primarily for Arabs learning English (ESL) NOT FOR KIDS!!!	As others have noticed, this book seems largely geared toward Arabic speakers seeking to learn English and seems especially great for those trying to get practice reading English.  The exercises on the bottom of the pages, for example, seem geared toward practicing English rather than practicing Arabic.  The index lists both words in English and Arabic but only gives a pronunciation guide for the English words, not the Arabic words which are not, so far as I can tell, transliterated into English anywhere in this book or even voweled.<br />If you are English speaker studying Arabic, however, this book is of unique value in one respect.  Most written Arabic language methods that I've seen put English transliterations very close to words in Arabic script which means you tend to memorize the transliterated sounds with the definition rather than learning to recognize the word as written in Arabic.  This book really allows for the kind of visual memorization that seems central to learning to read Arabic.  That makes this book a good addition to Mace's TEACH YOURSELF BEGINNING ARABIC SCRIPT which tries to teach \\"whole word recognition\\" Arabic (rather than just sounding out) but doesn't lay out its pages or present its material in a way that really supports that. <br />Even so, it would have been better in this book if the pronunciations- or even just the voweled versions of the words- were given some place.  A simple modification like that would make the book of nearly equal value to English speakers.<br />Another beef I have with this book is the 4-8 age group recomendation.  The book is of limited usefulness to adult English speakers seeking to learn Arabic.  English speaking children would just be lost.  And unless the Arabic speaking child in question is a little genius with good reading skills in his or her own language and some proficiency in basic English alphabet and phonetics, this is probably better for junior high level practice or perhaps as a guide to parentsseeking to tutor their children in English as a second language.	2003-01-07
US	52439791	R2NJDFZYZ2KPYO	1588462021	499972725	Clanbook: Tzimisce	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Better Taste, Less Gross	Let's pause briefly to remember the original CLANBOOK TZIMISCE.  It had John Cobb's explicit, woodcut-like art, overly vivid fiction, pages designed to look like human skin.  It was often sold shrink-wrapped and one place wouldn't let you see the back cover unless you were over 18. The book supposedly made someone's little sister vomit. It was quite an experience.<br />With the new CLANBOOK TZIMISCE, wiser heads have, fortunately or unfortunately, prevailed.  There are few grotesque descriptions and only one truly extreme drawing.  (The art is mostly just Vampire: Dark Ages creepy otherwise.)  No \\"over 18\\" shrink wrap here but I still would caution those younger and more sensitive people, as with anything Tzimisce.  There's lots of information, especially about Tzimisce Methuselahs like Yorak and the Dracon.  It suggest that the Tzimisce Antediluvian somehow now exists in all Tzimisce and can't be destroyed because he always re-emerges from the collective ooze that is this clan. There's lots about ghouls and revenants (new family, creature templates, derangements), the Children of the Dracon, non-European Tzimisce, Koldunic sorcery (new path), the Path of Metamorphosis with related mysticism and some funny stuff written in the voice of a modern Tzimisce advising an elder emerging from torpor. <br />Still, like many new Clanbooks, this one assumes prior knowledge- here of characters like Yorak (and the Cathedral of Flesh from the TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES) and Dr. Totentanz (from the original CLANBOOK TZIMISCE.)  Also, they've made Lambach Ruthven older and of lower generation than in other important sources.  <br />There are many standard features including a sample pack and discipline variations.  Character templates include embraced revenants and followers of various Paths of Enlightenment. (Some path follower templates have typos-  name of path not specified, wrong virtues.) There's a glossary to help with exotic terminology and a list of Eastern European names.	2002-04-06
US	52439791	R1D5Q1HLZU9JO9	1588462013	914785208	Clanbook: Lasombra	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Be Afraid of the Dark!!!	The new CLANBOOK LASOMBRA offers wonderfully details- clan factions (including antitribu), Lasombra skepticism of origin legends, Chinese bloodlines, Embrace traditions, how the Occult rating relates to Obtenebration, and a better sense of Montano and Gratiano. It has many standard series features- MET statistics, character templates, merits and flaws, a discussion of clan disciplines, a sample pack (Lasombra computer hackers!), and noted Lasombra (less basic but more multicultural than the original).<br />It's also the first new CLANBOOK on the Sabbat. It emphasizes Humanity over Paths of Enlightenment but gives extensive treatment to the distinctively Lasombra Path of Night.  (Other VtM  books assign important Lasombra to the Path of Power and the Inner Voice- not even mentioned here, unfortunately.) It describes Path of Night variations (the Path isn't written out here so you must refer back to VtM's basic rules) and introduces Abyss Mysticism, a practice by which Lasombra merge with darkness.  <br />An improvement in the new CLANBOOK: LASOMBRA is the emphasis on young Lasombra instead of elders, making the clan seem less cartoonishly pompous.  It features Asian, African and Northern European Lasombra not the usual Spanish Lasombra.  Rather than being traditionalistic, the Lasombra seem cut off from their own history because so many elders died during the Anarch Revolt. <br />A minor problem is that there's almost too much introduced for atmosphere and basic themes to fully develop and not enough follow-up on earlier material- characters like Medina and Lopez, for example. Also, the original CLANBOOK series was more interesting visually than the new one.  The original LASOMBRA featured white type on (appropriately) black pages.  (LIBELLUS SANGUINIS I's Lasombra chapter also does this in places.) Darkness oozed over the page from the pictures illustrating Obtenebration.  The new CLANBOOK: LASOMBRA  uses only conventional white pages and the art loses impact because of this.	2001-03-06
US	52439791	RMB5FUU1ZRY0Z	1565042565	900137484	*OP Clanbook Assamite Revised Ed (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Everything You Know Is Wrong.....	The new CLANBOOK ASSAMITE offers a wealth of information about this often misunderstood clan, challenging many long standing assumptions.  It backs off things (like the duty to destroy other vampires) that made Assamites difficult to play with non-Assamite characters. Changes from the original CLANBOOK ASSAMITE include expanded roles for female and non-Middle Eastern Assamites.  <br />The Assamite belief that they may judge (and punish) other vampires receives a noble explanation here along with the Laws of Haqim which codify such duties. The ranks and factions of Assamite society are examined (antitribu included). The three basic Assamite castes (warrior, scholar and sorcerer) receive full treatment as sub-classes with their own discipline specialties etc.  The book describes the ramifications of the Schism between Ur-Shulgi's followers and those of Al-Ashrad.  The features are great: MET statistics, notable Assamites, character templates, discussion of clan disciplines, new discipline variations including an Assamite Sorcery path.<br />   Now the bad news: IMO this is the hardest book in the new CLANBOOK series so far.  It constantly assumes prior knowledge.  For example, a summary of the Schism and explanations of terms like \\"Web of Knives\\" and \\"dispossessed\\" are only provided toward the end although they are mentioned throughout the book as if they're already familiar. Unexplained, specialized terms (&quot;kalif&quot;) sometimes appear.  (The original  CLANBOOK ASSAMITE had a glossary at the beginning- an unfortunate omission here.)   Ur-Shulgi and Al-Ashrad, meanwhile, are omitted from the notable Assamite section- despite mention throughout the book and despite the fact that an update of the character profiles in CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT was needed in light of the Schism.  (You'd need familiarity with other books to recognize the picture of them on pg. 30.)  Less scattered discussion of issues related to the Path of Blood (outlined in VtM's basic rules) would have been helpful.<br />Some advice if this book overwhelms you: There's a shorter, more concise, (clearer) treatment of many of the main points in LIBELLUS SANGUINIS III: WOLVES AT THE DOOR (for VAMPIRE: DARK AGES) as well as an Assamite Sorcery path.  (The new CLANBOOK ASSAMITE  seems to be a needed update of that material for a modern setting.)  There's background on the characters of Ur-Shulgi and Al-Ashrad in CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT  but little about their roles in the Schism.   NIGHTS OF PROPHECY has a good summary of the Schism (including Ur-Shulgi and Al-Ashrad) and other recent Assamite developments.  BLOOD MAGIC:  SECRETS OF THAUMATURGY has more paths for Assamite sorcery. Material about Islam and vampire characters in Muslim settings is provided in WORLD OF DARKNESS: SECOND EDITION (chapter on Arabia) and in the V:DA supplement JERUSALEM BY NIGHT .  The original CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE also has a list of selected reading on the Middle East.  <br />Don't get me wrong.   I recommend this book highly. It changed the way I viewed this clan. (I used to HATE Assamites, actually.) It's essential for Assamite character players and for Storytellers.  It may take extra effort for those new to VtM but it's worth it.	2001-02-13
US	52439791	R3D9UGMA377OG9	1565042549	492009669	Clanbook: Tremere (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Tremere Made Playable!!!	This books recounts Tremere history yet again.  However, unlike the original CLANBOOK TREMERE- a classic source book, revealing the secrets of a mysterious clan- here a young Tremere narrates.  Since most player characters tend to be young Tremere getting a sense of just how much such a character would know is very helpful. There are sidebars from a more ancient Tremere, hinting at how the narrator has been influenced by propaganda.  (This assumes some background knowledge.  You can find that in both the original CLANBOOK: TREMERE and TRANSYLVANIA BY NIGHT.  The Tremere legend develops further in NIGHTS OF PROPHECY and TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES IV: DRAGON ASCENDANT.)  <br />While Clan Tremere is still highly organized and authoritarian, the description of Tremere society here allows more freedom. It's now possible to play an anarch Tremere with no clan contact and easier to imagine what interests more traditional Tremere would have beyond clan business.  Basically, there's less internal politics and more to make Tremere playable in a mixed coterie.  However, there's still detailed description of Tremere organizational structure. There's also a bit about the destruction of the Tremere antitribu and (now that they're gone) details on how the curse marking the antitribu worked. (Gee, thanks.) <br />There are many good features-  Tremere derangements, merits and flaws, a generous Thaumaturgy section with new rituals (some repeated from the original, some important to Tremere operations) and paths (one revived from DARK AGES), as well as explanations of how Tremere use clan disciplines, an all Tremere coterie, notable Tremere and character templates including spooky occultists and anarchs. MET statistics are often given. The only failings are small organizational problems (we hear about the \\"Transubstantiation of Seven\\" long before there's any explanation of what it is) and the need for familiarity with other material to appreciate the full picture.	2001-02-04
US	52439791	R1SNQZ4L3KJVKO	1565048350	449753294	Clan Novel Nosferatu (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	What a long, strange trip it's been....	4 (by itself)  3.5. (as series conclusion)<br />As the CLAN NOVEL series conclusion, NOSFERATU had lots to cover: the Sabbat-Camarilla war, the Eye of Hazimel,  TREMERE and MALKAVIAN's obscurities, the mystery of Leopold, Benito Giovanni and the Tremere antitribu Nickolai.  I expected much because Fleming has been the best series author at moving the plot while developing characters and clans well.<br />Primarily, it dealt with the hunt for the Eye and Benito's kidnapping, retelling incidents from a Nosferatu viewpoint- including much from MALKAVIAN. The Nosferatu characters were well drawn and their secret, subterranean network was interesting.  Like BRUJAH, I read it in one sitting.<br />However, although Fleming did well, resolving this series in a book this short seems impossible, especially since new issues arose even in TREMERE.   Ramona, Hesha, Victoria, Jan (somewhat), Sturbridge and Theo return, but if you hoped Liz, the other Giovanni, Khalil, Fatima or Lucita would reappear, you'll be disappointed. Also, besides Nickolai, there were no Sabbat major characters. The war (New York siege) was mostly a backdrop for Leopold's mysteries.  <br />Some things weren't adequately resolved- only more hints about a hidden presence under Manhattan, empowering the Eye, for example.  (But see the VtM supplement NIGHTS OF PROPHECY.)  NOSFERATU also de-emphasized &quot;the children in the well\\", giving that far less importance than TREMERE and BRUJAH indicated.  If that wasn't important, why was TREMERE placed out of chronological sequence so close to the series conclusion, interrupting the action and frustrating readers? (While I don't hate TREMERE as some do, I admit I rated it too highly.  I've got a chronicle using the New York chantry and found TREMERE so useful I missed how serious its failings were.)  NOSFERATU does explain Nickolai and some puzzling references from MALKAVIAN (&quot;young wizard&quot; ) but there seemed to be mostly more obscurity about &quot;the children&quot;, the Robe of Nessus etc. <br />CLAN NOVEL series review: (Your mileage may vary.) <br />Overall rating:  4  <br />Revised ratings :  TOREADOR  2.5 (lower than when originally reviewed), TZIMISCE 5 (the reason NOT to avoid Eric Griffin), GANGREL 5+, SETITE 5+, (good by themselves) VENTRUE 4, LASOMBRA 4, (paired with VENTRUE and set up  ASSAMITE well) ASSAMITE 3.5, (I'm ticked about Moncada, OK?) RAVNOS. 5 +, (good by itself) MALKAVIAN 2.5 (lower), GIOVANNI 5, BRUJAH 4.5 (higher), TREMERE 3 (lower. portrays ritual sorcery well but that has very specialized appeal and the ending's a WRECK), NOSFERATU 4/3.5 (Didn't tie up ends clearly. Camarilla only.)<br />Stand alones: GANGREL, SETITE/RAVNOS.  Sample the series: TZIMISCE, GIOVANNI. Exceptional clan portrayals: GANGREL, VENTRUE, ASSAMITE, RAVNOS, GIOVANNI, NOSFERATU.  Best authors: Fleming, Ryan, Achilli.  Honorable mention: Griffin (TZIMISCE). Series strengths: good characters, good action, epic scope, relatively good unity despite multiple authors. Weaknesses: establishes series momentum late (not until VENTRUE, I thought), keeps adding more than can be fully developed or resolved and even authors seem to lose track, some books confusing (MALKAVIAN, TREMERE), some (TOREADOR, TZIMISCE) lack clan focus, books digressing from the main action (GANGREL, SETITE, TREMERE) can be frustrating (but those books often stand alone best.)	2000-10-25
US	52439791	R2NEQJJ9YPQISM	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	8	8	N	N	First, there was Louis....	I read this book at 16 when it first came out.  It left me dazed- fascinated with black clothes, the deep philosophical mysteries of graveyards and with the cafeteria's red fruit punch.  I've since heard INTERVIEW dismissed as trashy pulp, perhaps because it's part of a series but, also, frankly, because of the uneven quality of Rice's later writing.  At first, critics seemed unsure of what to make of INTERVIEW.  Here was an unknown writer's first novel- a horror novel which not only entertained in an intelligent, deeply evocative way but which also asked to be taken seriously as literature.<br />It's the first person story of Louis, a wealthy, young Louisiana creole who allowed himself to be made a vampire in a weak moment.  He then spends 175 years trying to understand what he's become.  It involves Lestat, (the vampire who created him and, left him ignorant of the rest of vampiric society), Claudia, (the doll-like 6-year-old Lestat made a vampire- in the book, Louis is very aware of Claudia's adult mind and his romantic attachment to her) and Armand (the powerful vampire from whom Louis seeks answers and with whom he falls in love).  It explores questions about evil, freedom and God. (You can play \\"name the philosopher\\" with the premises examined.) It visits 19th century New Orleans, Transylvania (a story in itself) and Paris where Armand's subterranean vampire community runs a macabre theater.<br />The book inhabits a dimension beyond any movie in sensual power.  Rice hadn't yet discovered overt eroticism (there's only one brief, although powerful, example of that) but you feel you can actually touch the book's nocturnal world as its sinister beauty seeps in. The point, however, is that evil, even when profoundly alluring, is ultimately empty and unsatisfying. <br />In later readings, I was struck by how bleak the conclusion is.  Remember, apparently, THERE WAS NO SEQUEL INTENDED.  Rice spent about 10 years after this as a historical novelist (FEAST OF ALL SAINTS, CRY TO HEAVEN)  and experimenting with pseudonymous erotic fiction (SLEEPING BEAUTY, EXIT TO EDEN) before writing THE VAMPIRE LESTAT. Originally, Louis' tragic situation at the end of this book was it.<br />All great books take risks.  You may hate Rice's idiosyncrasies.  It's still a great book.	2000-10-12
US	52439791	RR0W8QMKNGMTA	1565048881	696858187	Dark Tyrants pb *OP (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Vampire Dark Ages Anthology	This is a fine anthology of stories using the VAMPIRE: DARK AGES game  setting.  It captures in very readable tales the full range of true saints  (Lawrence Barker's &quot;Not Damned&quot;), redeemed souls (Richard Lee  Byers' &quot;The Winged Child&quot;) and tormented monsters (Patrick  Hadley's &quot;Eating Medusa&quot;) which characterize this rich game  setting.  There are stories set in cities (&quot;The Winged Child&quot;),  remote villages and settlements (&quot;Not Damned&quot;, Edward Carmian's  &quot;The Burden&quot;) and castles (Jackie Cassada's &quot;Toujours&quot;,  Don Bassingthwaite's \\"Three Days or Six\\").<br />Among these is &quot;My  Brother's Keeper&quot; which many will recognize as the masterfully  chilling opening of Gherbod Fleming's DEVIL'S ADVOCATE. (Interesting thing:  the author's name is given here as John Steele.) That, of course, is volume  one of the BLOOD CURSE trilogy so if the story's conclusion seems a little  open-ended, keep in mind that it took three whole books to resolve the  issues presented here.  There's also a story (&quot;Bearer of Bad  News&quot;) involving Lasombra vampires by Richard Dansky (author of CLAN  NOVEL LASOMBRA and most of the game supplements for that clan.)<br />The only  problem is that, with too few exceptions, there was a certain sameness to  the stories. Despite the great variety of situations and settings, too many  seemed like they could easily have been written by the same person.   Perhaps it's because the stories here were so faithful to the game setting  but the best RPG fiction anthologies always have a few selections that  break out and do something different.<br />Fortunately, the stories were also  uniformly good.  My favorites (aside from the Steele/Fleming BLOOD CURSE  teaser) were the idealistic &quot;Not Damned&quot;, the tenderly romantic  &quot;Toujours&quot;, the darkly seedy &quot;Eating Medusa&quot; and Tim  Waggoner's &quot;The Seeker&quot; (one of the few really different storiesin the bunch and featuring a highly original portrayal of wilderness  Gangrel.)	2000-09-14
US	52439791	R3KCCPUBJ8H35	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	2	11	16	N	N	Not his best.	I read this book on vacation and found it disappointing.  Much of the  suspense involved stuff that the main character, Darby Shaw, actually knew  but that Grisham just wasn't telling the reader even as he was revealing a  lot about what she thought and felt.  You spend most of the book, as she  tries to figure out who's trying to kill her because of what she knows,  realizing that you'd have the key to the whole thing if you just could find  out what Darby already knows about her own situation.  Then after he's run  you around enough (couple hundred pages) Grisham just opens up and tells  you what's going on.  <br />Basically the book just teases and manipulates the  reader. It's also a pretty long and goes on quite a bit after the cat is  out of the bag- resolving the situation of characters who I just couldn't  care that much about. I got the feeling that the book was mostly just a  framework to publicize certain environmental issues that the author was  interested in.<br />I've also read Grisham's THE FIRM and while I didn't care  for everything that happened in that book, it was a had much better  suspense, pacing and characters- really hard to put down even if the main  character wasn't always likeable.  Grisham definitely can do much better  than this.	2000-09-13
US	52439791	R2ZDPER2F4MXXR	0767903242	360172180	Managing Ignatius: The Lunacy of Lucky Dogs and Life in New Orleans	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Slow start but fun	This fun book probably wouldn't have been written but for the fact that  Lucky Dog hot dogs figured strongly in the classic New Orleans novel  CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES. The author here is the company's long time manager.  His subject, affectionately portrayed, are his vendors- drifters, mostly,  few of whom, we're told, had driver's licenses while the ones who did  couldn't be trusted not to run off with the company van. <br />For me, the  book had a slow start.  The author tends to report rather than narrate,  summarizing conversations rather than recreating dialogue between people,  allowing little of New Orleans' \\"voice\\" to come through.  Also, although he  includes many colorful anecdotes, it takes a while before he develops  characters whose stories the reader could follow over the long haul.   <br />There is a good sense of the community involved, though. Here a  supervisor climbs through an efficiency apartment window to roust a tardy  employee while street bums cheer below. When Strahan finally does let his  community develop citizens with recognizable personalities and concerns,  the book really takes off.  Eventually, even the signature Lucky Dog carts  seem like characters in the story.<br />Local color is understated. (Street  life in D.C. sounded just as wild in Strahan's description as that in New  Orleans.)  Mardi Gras, for example, seemed mostly just another predictable  busy period- same as major sporting events. Still, if if you've been to New  Orleans it will bring back memories and if you're going, you'll notice  things you wouldn't otherwise.  <br />It also captures the French Quarter  before it was cleaned up for the 1984 World's Fair and how that eccentric  decadence still lingers somewhat. Especially amusing are the way the  unflappable vendors resist the efforts of powers great and small to harass  them.  The best were the incidents involving World's Fair politics.	2000-09-12
US	52439791	RIM8GTI4MY7S7	1565042557	556097040	Clanbook: Ventrue, Revised Edition (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Noble Blood	There is good material in the new edition of CLANBOOK VENTRUE including  many of the new CLANBOOK series' standard features- clan disciplines  explained, discipline variations given, a new merit, a sample brood,  noteworthy Ventrue, player character templates, and MIND'S EYE THEATRE  stats.  There is exploration of Ventrue history (and its revision over the  years) and detailed description of the clan's organization.  The  &quot;Secret Masters&quot; material from the original book seems to have  been dropped, though- a problem only because of discontinuity with the Dark  Ages Ventrue material in LIBELLUS SANGUINIS I.<br />The Sabbat material,  although limited, is OK and includes  territory shifts between Sabbat and  Camarilla in the 19th century US. Templates include an antitribu follower  of the Path of Power and the Inner Voice (no Honorable Accord, though) and  a really mean anarch who could easily be Sabbat instead. (This  installment's Sabbat typo is omission of the designation  &quot;antitribu&quot; on the appropriate templates' sample character  sheets.)<br />A major problem is that, like the original, this new book lacks  specifics about the Ventrue weakness.  Although it examines how Ventrue  neonates develop their restricted feeding preferences and how preferences  change, specific preferences are not listed either for the player character  templates or the noteworthy Ventrue. (This is omitted in most VtM  supplements, unfortunately- a notable exception being NEW ORLEANS BY NIGHT,  if you can find it.)  No examples of or guidelines for playable feeding  preferences are discussed. <br />However, to be fair, there is helpful,  practical discussion about how Ventrue establish and conceal their herds.  (To offer more explicit advice: playable Ventrue characters generally  require strong Herd ratings.) Also, except for the &quot;Vitaephile&quot;,  you can probably guess prey restrictions for the player character templates  from their descriptions. Still, contrast this with the much clearer  handling of derangements in the new CLANBOOK: MALKAVIAN.	2000-09-09
US	52439791	R2N7Q167XG8SR2	1565042697	800620036	Clanbook: Toreador, Revised Edition (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	The Beautiful People Re-examined	This is a good book with some problems.  Unfortunately, it doesn't have  all the features usually included in the new CLANBOOK series.  There are  discipline variations and noteworthy Toreador but no merits and flaws.  By  contrast, the original CLANBOOK: TOREADOR stood out in terms of features  offered including an impressive merits and flaws list.  (Some resurface in  the DARK AGES Toreador material in LIBELLUS SANGUINEUS II.) The original  also included the often referenced legend of Toreador and Nosferatu (new  CLANBOOK: NOSFERATU and DRAGON ASCENDANT).  If this new CLANBOOK series is  intended to replace the original, it should have been here.  The new  CLANBOOK: NOSFERATU, for example reused much important material from its  original but, for some reason, the new TOREADOR resists that.<br />The book  offers two perspectives on Toreador history- one from a recently awakened  Medieval elder (ignorant of modern  BOOK OF NOD scholarship) and another  from a young, African Toreador. Other Toreador give insiders' perspectives.   These various voices are differentiated but often not starkly enough  (despite intriguing multicultural names) to add interest.<br />The text is,  however, generally well written and engaging. Between post-modern aesthetic  theory (yes, really) and political ruminations, there is interesting  discussion of African Toreador, the Toreador strategy of encouraging others  to underestimate their clan and welcome development of the Toreadors'  relationship with the mortal world.  Apparently, Toreador can use their  absorption in beauty and involvement with mortals to prevent degeneration  of their own humanity.  Involvement in the mortal world even gives them a  different, more human, more urgent time sense.<br />There is relatively little  about Toreador antitribu beyond a player character template for a follower  of the Path of Cathari (apparently- they misspelled &quot;Cathari&quot; and  listed incorrect virtues). Unfortunately, this antitribucharacter is a  rather generic Sabbat. (See MONTREAL BY NIGHT for better Cathari  characters.)	2000-09-01
US	52439791	RMZ9RHV1QEODE	1565042468	358756749	Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	BAMPH!!!!!!	A book detailing the complex discipline of Thaumaturgy has been long  needed.  This is a really good one and while it doesn't solve all the  problems created by the past handling of Thaumaturgy in VAMPIRE: THE  MASQUERADE, it goes a long way toward clarifying and further developing the  discipline.<br />The book discussed the history and theory of vampiric blood  magic.  We learn that it predates the Tremere, for example, and hear about  basic principles of magical workings.  There is discussion about the  difference between a Tremere vampire and a True Mage (metaphysical, mostly,  and assumes familiarity with MAGE- for more practical instructions on  vampires and mages, see VAMPIRE: STORYTELLERS HANDBOOK), how non-Tremere  might learn Thaumaturgy and some examples of arcane tomes. Most of it is  clearly explained (with few exceptions like the unnecessarily ambiguous  section about the difference between spirits and demons). <br />There are  welcome sections outlining the Koldunic sorcery of the Tzimisce (finally!)  and voodoo-derived traditions of Necromancy.  Both the Assamites and the  Setites have their own traditions of blood magic, detailed here. There are  paths derived from Alchemy and Kaballah.  Biothaumatugy is recycled from  SECRETS OF THE BLACK HAND.  <br />Unfortunately, while the material introduced  here is superb, the book doesn't pull together the various little bits of  Thaumaturgy scattered between VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE and VAMPIRE: DARK  AGES. It just once again gives us more and better. It would have been nice,  for example, to have an appendix showing which previously introduced paths  and rituals are in which books. Furthermore, some storytellers seem  intimidated about Thaumaturgy and disallow it as &quot;too  complicated&quot;. Step by step instructions (and a pep talk) might have  been good, too.  I should mention also that this book is about vampiric  blood magic ONLY- no numinas or hedge magic more appropriate to allies like  ghouls.	2000-08-21
US	52439791	RPFUJ38ELEOUL	0345376048	63633228	The Feast of All Saints	Books	5	52	52	N	N	You are coming with me....Now.	Roughly the first two hundred pages of this book deal with a young boy enrolling in a new school.  In the process, the book tells us who this boy,  Marcel Ste. Marie, is and brings passionately and atmospherically to life  his people and their world.  It's fascinating.  It avoids cheap thrills to  unfold like old fashioned literature into a great sensuous flower of a  story that doesn't let go.  Hints of Rice's customary obsessions are  present in this early book but they are very restrained and so gain  tantalizing power.<br />The book deals with the free people of color in 19th  century New Orleans, mixed-blood descendants of freed slaves- the proud old  families who have established themselves as tradesmen and planters but also  the children of white planters' quadroon mistresses.  All are oppressed in  subtle ways and walk a narrow path of propriety in response.  Abandoning  their heritage for more racially tolerant Europe is a constant temptation.   Even the most refined, educated and prosperous members of the old families  cannot vote. A respectable white planter must not be embarrassed by the  second family he maintains with his mistress and all assume a mistress's  pretty daughter will follow her mother's profession. <br />Marcel, his sister  Marie, his friends Richard and Anna Bella come of age in this environment  with poignantly intense youthful enthusiasms, affections and anxieties.  Anything their elders cannot face has been kept from them until they reach  the age when their world's injustices become unavoidable. They then find  themselves at odds with traditional ways that formerly provided meaning and  certainty. The story that develops can't be summarized but it builds to  such a pitch that when you reach the words in this review's title you might  just cheer aloud, as i did. This is historical fiction at its best.	2000-08-19
US	52439791	R2QF8WZ9V40DCN	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	43	53	N	N	A great and enjoyable book	I'd heard this book described as social satire told from the perspective of an educated man reduced to selling hot dogs on the streets of New Orleans' French Quarter. I knew the author committed suicide and I was  expecting bitter commentary on the absurdity and corruption of the world  that later drove him to it.  I was very pleasantly surprised.  CONFEDERACY  OF DUNCES is NOT a suicide note.  It's actually rather gentle at times.   Despite undertones of desperation and tragedy, it presents a world in which  even misfits have their role because the chaos surrounding them is  necessary to disrupt complacency and pretense. <br />It's more a New Orleans  novel than a French Quarter novel.  The quixotic hero, Ignatius Reilly,  lives uptown with his mother in a middle class neighborhood.  His pathetic  pre-hot dog employer, Levy Pants, is in industrial Bywater.  Both those  environments receive comic examination along with the French Quarter.   There is a delightful complex of subplots involving a well-intentioned  policeman, a neglected business, a pirate costume and Ignatius' enthusiasm  for founding outlandish political movements.  Almost every character  introduced gets a larger role.  Ignatius' shortcomings are as serious as  those of the people complicating his life and suspense arises from concern  that he will be ruined when the various subplots' inevitably collide.   However, there are also surprise saviors here. <br />The gay party in the  French Quarter is the weakest part, constructed from once daring  stereotypes that now seem dated and narrow-minded.  This slows the novel's  last half somewhat but not enough to wreck Toole's narrative.<br />Don't let  phrases like &quot;literary masterpiece&quot; put you off.  (It is that-  there's some G. B. Shaw, Jonathan Swift and especially Oscar Wilde behind  this, I think.)  It's a great book because it's the work of a master  storyteller.  This tale can capture anyone.	2000-07-31
US	52439791	R2ZHIMWXCIIU7M	156504827X	225132189	Tremere (Clan Novel: Vampire - The Masquerade)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Magical Mystery Tour	This story is basically a murder mystery which, as it unfolds, provides a detailed look inside a Tremere chantry- the relationships between residents, their magical procedures, their politics etc. It's a pretty  self-contained story with a strong focus on an interesting character-  besieged New York chantry regent Aisling Sturbridge. Indeed, when it  attempts to advance the CLAN NOVEL series plot, it tends toward arcane  incidents which only raise more questions. Knowledge of the rest of the  series doesn't seem as necessary to appreciate this book as knowledge of  the VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE RPG setting (Tremere antitribu, the difference  between Tremere vampires and True Mages etc.).<br />Unfortunately, Griffin's  other contribution to the series, the more episodic TZIMISCE, better showed  his strengths- imaginative individual scenes, telling detail.  That's here,  too but with all the intrigue, arcane practices, surreal visions and sudden  surprise twists, I found the overall plot difficult to follow- especially  toward the end where tremendous complexities were resolved very quickly. I  wasn't sure at first what happened in the end and motives are still  unclear. Some crucial things seemed only to receive perfunctory explanation  without enough preparatory development. Adding to the confusion are  distracting editorial problems like failing to identify the speakers often  enough during important dialog. <br />Despite this, Griffin presents magical  practices well and mostly avoids that subject's pitfalls.  He provides  enough necessary technical detail without bogging down in exotic minutia.  In the process, he creates atmosphere, reveals character and maintains  consistent logic throughout for how his magic functions. It's also faithful  to the way the Tremere and their organization are presented in VtM.  People  who enjoy that will find much to enjoy here. You may not be entirely  satisfied with where it ends up but at least it takes you on the scenic  route with an engaging guide.	2000-07-29
US	52439791	R309YM6FYELS5W	156504259X	153196021	*OP Vampire Storyteller Companion Screen (Vampire: The Masquerade Companions)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	You really, really, REALLY, really NEED THIS	This book is NOT to be confused with VAMPIRE: STORYTELLERS HANDBOOK. (That's the book with the obscure, exotic stuff from SECRETS OF THE BLACKHAND and the sundry practical and philosophical advice for the  storyteller.)  This book is far less creative but far more essential.  My  high rating is intended to convey just how essential not any particular  profundity or innovation.<br />It's a rather slight looking paperback.  DON'T  BE FOOLED.  This, folks, is where they now keep the information on the  Salubri, Samedi and Daughters of Cacophany blood lines and the disciplines  Obeah and Thanatosis.  This is where they have all the game mechanics for  specific weapons- shotguns, handguns, swords, whips, armor ancient and  modern, millitary equipment, etc.  The optional secondary abilities include  things like ride, archery, pilot, area knowledge, Camarilla lore and Sabbat  lore.  Unlike STORYTELLERS HANDBOOK, I can't imagine a storyteller for VtM  running a chronicle without the info here, frankly.  It's all organized in  a clear, straight-forward way, too. A BONUS: Lawrence Snelly was art  director and he compiled some really fine pictures from folks like Leif  Jones, Vince Locke, Guy Davis, Christopher Shy, John Cobb (signed work from  the last two but not mentioned in credits).	2000-07-27
US	52439791	R1PATP5R7GHI00	1565042654	295202936	*OP Clanbook Gangrel Revised Ed (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The truth is out there, Rover....	One of the improvements of the new CLAN BOOK series over the original is consistency between the various installments. The new books all seem to  include discipline variations and merits and flaws tailored to specific  clans as well as all new sample character templates. (MIND'S EYE THEATRE  stats are now always given for much of this)  Often extensive sections on  notable clan members are included in all of them.  The only standard  feature missing from the new CLAN BOOK: GANGREL is the sample coterie- too  bad, because if there ever was group that tended to hang with their own (if  anyone), it would be the Gangrel. <br />Overall, however, GANGREL is an  outstanding addition to this series.  The mostly new text (part introduced  as a response to the narrator of the original) covers (as usual) the title  clan's view of vampiric history and opinions of other clans and WoD  creatures.  The Gangrel are presented as a diverse group, often defying  stereotypes but generally highly inquisitive and, of course, prone to  wander.  It deals with subjects like Gehenna, the political ramifications  of Xaviar's recent break with the Camarilla,  conspiracy theories and even  Gangrel opinions about suburbs and the internet- in addition to the  expected material on environmentalism, Lupines, etc. There is a very good  section on the impact of the Gangrel weakness and some hints at larger  mysteries, too. <br />Happily, there's also lots of Sabbat material- including  how Sabbat Gangrel regard different Paths of Enlightenment. A follower of  the Path of the Feral Heart is included in the character templates- the  first template on a Path follower in the new series. (Wrong virtues, tho!)   This is part of an examination of Gangrel bloodlines including some of the  exotic and lost ones from DARK AGES. WOW!	2000-07-27
US	52439791	RIB6LM0YRG8JK	1565042646	830307968	Vampire Storytellers Handbook	Books	4	12	12	N	N	IT'S ALL HERE!...mostly...somewhere....	This helpful book includes information on elders and their society (from ELYSIUM mostly), mechanics for century-spanning chronicles (scattered and without as much detail as in other sources, unfortunately), an informative  FAQ section, a section on how vampires interact with other World of  Darkness creatures, advice on creating short (tournament size) games and  possible alternative settings.  There is a discussion about bloodlines  including the modern Baali and the Daimonion discipline and material  salvaged from SECRETS OF THE BLACK HAND- True Brujah, Nagaraja and their  unique disciplines. A chapter covers the Hand's secret history and recent  demise as an independent sect. The book offers suggestions for using  free-form techniques to make the chronicle less numbers driven and more  story driven- alternatives to merits and flaws, game balance treated as  giving player characters equal story attention rather than equal powers,  etc.<br />Unfortunately, some material seemed organized in a haphazard way.   For example, elder society was in the chapter on vampiric existence but  vampiric authority structures and power wielding techniques were over in  the storytelling chapter. Things like this made it difficult to get an  overall sense of where things were without reference to the index. <br />In  places, it seemed overly long on theory and short on specifics. After  reading the section on theme, concept and mood I was thankful that there  wasn't going to be a quiz and wondered if this is really something you can  learn from a book- especially with only broad suggestions about using  music, props and (what'll they think of next!) descriptions.  Specific  suggetions for darkening a chronicle that seems too &quot;nice&quot; (and  the reverse) might also have been more helpful than all the sidebar  reminders to keep it cynical.	2000-07-25
US	52439791	R2HZ41Z7RMGPC	1565042689	649202633	Clanbook: Malkavian, Revised Edition (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Hcum oot dnatsrednu i! I stand under much too!	The original CLANBOOK: MALKAVIAN was one of the best in the original CLANBOOK series.  To portray the clan's eccentricity, it used artwork in the style of children's drawings, a page that had to be read in a mirror  and the Malkavian version of the tale of &quot;The Blind Men and the  Elephant&quot;. It raved through the clan's twisted insights into their own  history, other clans etc.<br />So how does the new CLANBOOK: MALKAVIAN measure  up? Well, the new CLANBOOK series books are handsome but more  conventionally designed than their predecessors.  No kiddie drawings here  (darn) or &quot;Blind Bats and the Elephant&quot; (double darn).  However,  in their place is a wonderful expanded presentation of the Malkavian's  history and character.  <br />The text is mostly new.  In the original,  Malkavians were tricksters who challenged accepted concepts with mad  pranks.  The new edition emphasizes the mystical character of Malkavian  insanity, develops the prophetic group mind underlying this and explores  the loss and return of the Dementation discipline. (If Gehenna prophecies  are part of your chronicle you need this book.  Malkavians are canaries in  the coal mine- the Final Nights affect them first.)   Two (apparently)  different Malkavians narrate.  Both know things seemingly beyond their  experience- one from a voice in his head and the other from memories he  can't account for.  It's more horrific than the original, almost as  eccentric and easier to follow.   <br />It has features standard in the new  CLANBOOK series: new discipline variations, merits and flaws, an expanded  noteworthy Malkavians section and a sample Malkavian coterie.  It details  new derangements and, unlike the original, helpfully includes derangements  in the (all new) player character templates and the noteworthy Malkavians'  stats.  The antitribu templates defy the expectations created in GUIDE TO  THE SABBAT and sound more rewarding to play.	2000-07-21
US	52439791	R4CVJ3ZW17268	1565042670	3636270	Clanbook: Brujah (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The Evolution of the Revolution Continues	Back in the days when VtM's atmosphere was first described (and trademarked) as &quot;gothic-punk&quot;, the job of upholding the &quot;punk&quot; part fell largely to the anarchic and rebellious Brujah.   Quickly, however, there came to be more to the Brujah than mohawks and  frenzied head-banging.  The clan turned out to have a noble heritage of  humanitarianism, philosophy and even a lost utopia.  The original CLANBOOK:  BRUJAH did a lot to develop this more diverse clan concept as did VAMPIRE:  DARK AGES.  <br />This is further developed here. In this new edition of  CLANBOOK: BRUJAH, the clan's history has been expanded including recent  developments in the Anarch Free States. An insider's view is provided from  the perspective of an independent-minded, articulate Brujah ancilla who  both states and defies the stereotypes about his clan.  (You've got to like  a guy who dismisses the Tremere with &quot;Whatever, Gandalf.&quot;) <br />In  general, just as the new CLANBOOK: NOSFERATU seemed to make that clan more  monsterous, this book seems to portary the Brujah as more humane and  rational. The emphasis now seems to be on presenting the clan as the unsung  backbone of vampiric society- individualistic, skeptical of rules and  authority, often volatile but willing to do the heavy lifting that the more  refined and aristocratic clans won't and gifted with an adaptability that  enables them to survive when others don't.  There is still room left,  however, for the more rebellious Brujah we've come to love.  The  Iconclast/Idealist/Individualist camps presented in the original book are  maintained here but made less rigid. <br />Indeed, despite more conventional  graphic design and artwork, this new edition is an improvement over the old  one. There are new merits and flaws, new discipline variations (and some  old ones), an expanded section on notable Brujah (bigger than in NOSFERATU)  and even a sample Brujah coterie. MIND'S EYE THEATRE stats are given for  much material.  There are all new character templates as well- no more  dated pop-music figures and no more white supremacist. (If players want to  play one of those, they'll have to think of it themselves.)	2000-07-19
US	52439791	RAKUP9GPZQNIS	1565042298	433896422	*OP Nights of Prophecy (Vampire: The Masquerade Novels)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Here we have an example of the RIGHT way....	This supplement for VtM offers five very relevant game adventures.  Two stories deal with two relatively new toys in the World of Darkness- the Kindred of the East and the Hunters.  Another gives the players' characters  front row seats for the destruction of Baba Yaga.  There is a free form  night club story which might be a good way to generate ideas for how things  should go after the big realignment of the East Coast cities.  Yet another  story is set in the Sabbat city of Montreal and updates that setting- one  of my favorites. Las Vegas and San Francisco are also developed in the  Hunters and Kuei-jin stories respectively.  I haven't playtested any of  this material but it looks very, very good.<br />The section innocuously  titled &quot;Introduction&quot; is a real gem.  This deals with something  called the &quot;metaplot&quot;- the overarching storyline of the World of  Darkness. (The CLAN NOVEL series is based on the metaplot and so are THE  TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES.) It discusses several important developments- the  current problems facing the Assamite and Ravnos clans, the destruction of  the Tremere antitribu (including some insights about the whole  Tremere-Saulot thing) and gives a blow by blow on the Fall of New York to  the Camarilla. You need to read this if you want to keep up at all.  <br />A  good thing about this is that alternate possible scenarios are frequently  offered- different reasons why things are happening, for example.  This  book also backs off somewhat at a couple points from insisting that any  player characters of certain clans would have to be destroyed in certain  situations. The metaplot described here also diverges in small ways from  what was described in the CLAN NOVEL series (so far) and in the  TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES.  There's a certain fuzziness in which there's  plenty of room for storytellers to make their own decisions.  I hope no one  takes it into his or her head to fix that.<br />A word about this whole  metaplot thing. When official game materials declare even one important  storyteller character destroyed or give even a small glimpse of an  Antedeluvian's machinations, it can go a long way in terms impact on  existing storyteller chronicles. I'm currently really enjoying the metaplot  but I can see that there's going to be a limit.  Right now, I've got enough  ideas from it to last me a couple lifetimes and it's great.  At some point,  though, anxiety about taking my chronicle in a direction that turns out to  be at odds with furture developments in the metaplot is either going to get  very inhibiting or I'm going to end up saying &quot;to heck with the  metaplot&quot;. In general the more open-ended, supportive way the metaplot  was handled in this book was very encouraging.	2000-07-13
US	52439791	R3RUOSCXJ0K3J2	1565048253	658452014	Clan Novel: Brujah (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Working Class Heroes	I read this book in one afternoon. I wasn't frantically turning pages but it held my attention and kept me coming back. It starts with a murder mystery and spins out elegantly from there into a war novel developing the  Camarilla's counter-offensive against the Sabbat. The book brings a lot of  threads from earlier in the series together- the Malkavian visions, the  leaks to the Sabbat, etc.  <br />Although the book is very well written with  compelling characters and situations, at this point, knowledge of the  earlier developments in the series is probably necessary to really  appreciate what's going on if not to follow the action.  There's also a  very big surprise revelation here.  If you just want to dip into the series  to see how you like it, don't start with this book because it will be a  spoiler. (The story arc involved starts in TZIMISCE and is developed in  VENTRUE and LASOMBRA.)<br />It's overall a good treatment of the Brujah clan  and captures their rough, generally lower class culture and their noble  concerns with equality and justice. The Brujah rage and rebellion is there  but it's mostly handled as an internal reality.  Some may be disappointed  to find that there don't seem to be any of the flamboyant, head-banger  anarch characters that originally characterized the clan. This book  portrays the Brujah as tough and confrontational but reasonable. This  doesn't slow the pace of the action, tho and it establishes a clear  contrast with both the Ventrue and the Sabbat.<br />I did have a few small  problems with this book. First, perhaps in order to keep the Sabbat  unredeemably villainous, Fleming also has made them, well, kinda stupid.   It's rare to find something in his writing that doesn't ring true but, for  me, this didn't.  Remember, Vykos is about 1,000 years old and Polonia is a  notorious survivor. Together, they conquered most of the southeastern  United States. But, as portrayed here, it seems improbable that they could  have done thatbecause obnoxious blunderers like this would have died  Darwin-award winning deaths centuries ago.  Yeah, I know, if the Sabbat  didn't make certain crucial mistakes, it wouldn't be the same story.   Still, there's a difference between not letting supposedly smart characters  have a clue and just not letting them figure everything out in time because  their flaws blind them.  <br />Second, there are pesky little mistakes. A  Lasombra casts a reflection in a mirror and no one even remarks on it.  Elsewhere a character is refered to as &quot;Brujah&quot; and then as  &quot;Malkavian&quot; in the same paragraph. <br />I don't want to make too  much of this stuff, however. Despite these minor problems, BRUJAH is a very  good read and a credit to the CLAN NOVEL series.	2000-07-10
US	52439791	RBJ3LKC9MBKYB	1565048075	133862051	Clan Novel Lasombra *OP (Clan Novel Series Number 6)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	And the beat goes on....	OK.  I confess. I'm a Lasombra fan. I read this book first rather than starting at the beginning of the series.  I did it for background.  OK?<br />My mistake. I could NOT understand it.  There were Lasombra doing  Lasombra stuff but I couldn't see the point.  I couldn't find any reason to  care which archbishop was going to be assasinated, for example. And where  were the Courts of Blood and the conflict with the Lasombra antitribu? Then  there was this pack that got drafted for a mission and went off into to  nowhere....<br />The problem is that this book really doesn't stand by itself.  You have to read the other books in the series to get into it.  (You find  out what happened to the pack in VENTRUE- an earlier book- and the  rivalries between the archbishops were set up in TZIMISCE.)<br />But as a  continuation, it's a good one. After reading it a second time, I found  myself frequently going back to it. There's too many good things you may  miss if you're constantly scratching your head and wondering &quot;Whozzat?   Why's THIS matter? WHY IS VYKOS FEMALE?&quot; due to unfamiliarity with  the other books.   <br />There's a good depiction of Cardinal Moncada in his  lair.  The tension between the two Lasombra archbishops (Polonia who is  smart and subtle and Borges who apparently isn't either) is well handled  with moments of understated humor.  Then there's the bodyguard, Talley, an  elder who Moncada gives the thankless job of baby-sitting these two  enormous egos (AND Sascha Vykos). The book takes a panoramic, episodic  approach to the entire Sabbat campaign rather than focusing much on  specific characters.  In doing this it also manages to quickly develop real  human interest in the descriptions of the Camarilla's efforts at defense-  episodes which go by too quickly unless you have the context of the rest of  the saga. Then there's the way this book pulls back from the very flaboyant  portrayal of the Sabbat in TZIMISCE in favor of a more sober, businesslike  atmosphere better suited to the Lasombra.<br />I do have to say that I just  can't get the appeal of the Lasombra assasin, Lucita, who dominates so much  of this book. Little is done with her antitribu status or her interest in  arcane artifacts. Both are mentioned but not developed.  She's just  supposed to be obviously cool and lethal, I guess. Still, her action scenes  are well constructed and demonstrate what a fun toy obtenebration can be to  play with.<br />Oh yeah.... in this book, you finally learn how they pronounce  &quot;Tzimisce&quot;.  Funny, I just assumed the Tzimisce pronounced it  anyway they wanted.....	2000-06-24
US	52439791	R1YPWQTXMXOTYR	1565048040	568660729	Clan Novel Setite (The Clan Novel Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best of the Bunch?	I've read everything in this series so far (thru GIOVANNI) and this book is still in the running for the best in the series.  Like Gherbod Fleming's GANGREL (the previous installment), it takes a break from the broad sweep  of the series' plot to establish a strong main character focus.  It's much  more light-hearted than GANGREL, tho, and might be a welcome relief for  those who found GANGREL too grim.  It's still more serious than Kathleen  Ryan's other book in the series (RAVNOS) and seems a little stronger for  that reason. Here, the main characters are the Setite antiquarian Hesha and  his mortal assistant, Liz- the first chance in the series to really see the   action through a mortal's eyes.<br />Despite the cliff-hanger ending, this  book is strong enough to be read on its own.  The search for the Eye of  Hazimel is a good mystery and ends up in some pretty momentous developments  for the CLAN NOVEL series. There is also a lot of fascinating interplay and  intrigue between characters, compelling enough to hold your attention even  if you don't know anything about what's happened in the other books.  The  story is told as a flashback and a small flaw is that to get everyone to  where they need to be in the situation depicted at the start of the book,  some alliances seem to shift very abruptly.  It's not enough to detract  from the overall story, however. The book also takes us all the way to  Calcutta- pretty interesting in itself.<br />Like GANGREL, the book also has a  good focus on the title clan (something which was missing from TOREADOR  which spent a lot of time using a Toreador-sponsored party to depict  Camarilla Elysium politics and from TZIMISCE which was more about the  Sabbat generally.)  With all its intrigues, this story a good depiction of  how the Setites conduct their business (the strongest lies subtly  incorporate as much of the truth as possible) and use their powers.  It's  also a good depiction of a character following a Path of Enlightenment (who  degenerates if he does something for purely selfless reasons).  It's  interesting that, although Hesha can't be called &quot;good&quot; in human  terms, he doesn't seem to be exactly evil, either.  I ended up both really  liking him and wondering if I should.	2000-06-22
US	52439791	R3IANYPBB84GSO	0684848562	30981930	Captured By Aliens: The Search for Life and Truth in a Very Large Universe	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Life, the Universe and EVERYTHING!	This book was less about fringe UFO cults than I had expected.  The author spends a great deal of time- most of the first part of the book, in fact- discussing just what science and aerospace actually know about  extraterrestrial life and what the important scientific issues and  questions are. (It turns out that when scientists talk about  extraterrestial life, they actually would be pretty happy to find so much  as a microbe or a stray radio signal and even the pursuit of these fairly  humble goals is plagued with frustration.)<br />The author keeps it  interesting because he includes very human portraits of the scientists  involved and has an entertaining, whimsical touch in his presentation.  He  also seems pretty good at just clearly explaining science for lay  people.<br />When he does finally get to the popular UFO movements, his  approach is both skeptical and respectful- just as he is with hard-science  types like Carl Sagan.  He lets the eccentricities of these movements speak  for themselves and never mocks anyone even though the reader knows that  science hasn't found anything like what the UFO enthusiasts seems to  imagine.  Especially interesting was his examination of the development of  the Roswell craze.<br />He introduces important issues and then lets them  arise subtly throughout the rest of the book.  If we are not alone in the  Universe, then where are the others? If something happens to intelligent  life before they reach the stage when they can contact other worlds, what  is it?  And the toughy:  What is going to happen to US? Specifically, do we  need to watch the skies and visit other worlds or should we just take care  of this planet and assume that all will be well with the Universe?  <br />Underlying all of this are anecdotes indirectly illustrating things like  the tension between faith and reason and between what we think we know from  the media and the way things actually are.  The book amuses, informs,  disquiets, reassures and entertains all without hitting the reader over the  head with conclusions.  <br />The only problem with it is that sometimes it's  just a little bit too chatty and open-ended. At other times, however, this  is the book's most delightful quality.	2000-06-18
US	52439791	RC9ZQELCQED2Y	1565048261	77956721	Clan Novel Giovanni (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	You Kiss your vessels with that mouth?	This book has an odd structure- a mini-trilogy of consecutive plots: the search for Benito Giovanni, negotiations with the Camarilla and Sabbat about control of Boston, and, finally, the rattling of some skeletons in  clan Giovanni's closet.  I can't say much was accomplished.  Even the  resolution of the &quot;Benito thing&quot; raised more questions than it  answered. The book continued subplots from much earlier books and I had  trouble remembering what they were about.<br />But guess what?  I didn't care  about any of this because the book was so well written it ceased to matter.   Achilli seems to be especially good at writing chilling little vignettes.   His Sabbat, for example, are scarier in one paragraph than they were in the  two whole books in the CLAN NOVEL series dedicated to them- and one of  those (TZIMISCE) is one of the strongest installments in the series.<br />The  book presents the diversity of the Giovanni clan well- especially the  differences between the Old World Giovanni with their necromancy and the  New World Giovanni with their more mundane mob involvement.  It takes a  break from the following the larger developments in the series to focus on  the story of two Giovanni- the New World mobster Chas and the Old World  negotiator Isabel. I've read the previous books in the series but I think I  would have been able to enjoy this even if I hadn't.<br />The first part of  the book focused on the brutal, crude and very foul-mouthed New World  Giovanni. (Without the profanity it seemed like the book would have been  around 100 pages shorter- but there's a reason for it.) Mafia novels don't  do much for me and this gave the book a slow start.  Still it managed to  combine a mob story with a vampire story without seeming silly.  Later,  there is a look at the venerable necromancer Ambrogino at his work and some  creepy glimpses at the ancient past of the Cappadocians.  There's some  great jungle-rotting decadence set in New Orleans as well. One ofthe  things that the book handles best is the toll which the Giovanni flaw (they  cause pain when they feed) takes on members of this clan over time as they  strive to maintain their humanity.  It's not quite as blatantly bleak a  portrayal of vampiric existance as CLAN NOVEL: GANGREL but it's pretty  disturbing perhaps because it's so subtle- at least at first.	2000-06-14
US	52439791	R358RL02JI33DF	156504293X	570392341	Transylvania Chronicles 4: The Dragon Ascendant (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	This is the way the world will end...ALMOST....	This is the fourth and last installment in the epic TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES series of VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE supplements.  The chronicle started in the Dark Ages and crossed over into modern era VtM in the third  installment. Like other Dark Ages material, this series has been  instumental in adding depth to VtM by giving the vampires a history.  Like  past installments in this series, this book contains helpful advice about  running a century-spanning chronicle and playing elders (how vampires age,  summarizing down time etc.)  It has some advice for running this  installment as a stand alone and how to get the stories back on track if  the characters go in the wrong direction. It includes detailed rosters of  major story characters. In short, it seems to be a really well designed  module.<br />It takes the chronicle to the brink of Gehenna.  It gives you  front row seats at major events- the fate of the the Tremere antitribu, for  example. A really good possible use for this book is integrating individual  parts of it into other campaigns as a way of letting characters be  witnesses to history independent of the larger TRANSYLVANIA CHRONICLES  plot.<br />The problem is that it also reveals certain things about the Jyhad-  the goals and machinations of specific Antediluvians, for example. There  are big surprises here about just who the &quot;great diabolical master of  the Jyhad&quot; is. <br />And that's why I'm only giving it three stars. This  book reveals too darn much and makes decisions that I don't want made for  me. Alternate possibilites for &quot;what's really happening&quot; don't  seem to be offered.  It's important to keep in mind that overthrowing  established assumptions in an interactive role-playing game world isn't  just a &quot;surprise plot twist&quot;.  It can play havoc with the  direction of longstanding campaigns- previously thought in good faith to be  well and faithfully grounded in offical materials. There specifically has  to be enoughambiguity for storytellers to make their own personal  decisions about &quot;what it all means&quot; without feeling that they are  running divergent chronicles. (The assurance that &quot;divergent  chronicles are OK&quot; is NOT the same.) The stuff revealed here trashes  that utterly.	2000-06-08
US	52439791	R14K5TEDC03M9S	1565048024	436595742	Clan Novel: Tzimisce (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Clan Novel: Sabbat?	If you read this book expecting that Sascha Vykos is going to be the main character, you may be disappointed.  Vykos sort of is, but the book isn't really strongly focused on any particular character.  It's a panoramic look  at the entire Sabbat campaign in the southeast.  It shifts focus between  several different characters and moves quickly between many different  episodes and subplots.  Vykos is clearly a standout and very well drawn (as  female rather than androgynous) but here the supporting cast has a very  expanded role.<br />Because of its broad focus, this book also isn't really  about any particular Sabbat clan.  In its large cast of characters, I  counted 8 named Tzimisce to 6 named Lasombra (plus one important ductus  whose clan apparently isn't indicated.)  The Tzimisce do some graphically  sick stuff with their vicissitude discipline but a Lasombra ductus does  some equally disturbing things with the help of obtenebration.  Get the  idea?  The balance is slightly tilted toward Vykos and the Tzimisce but the  book really deals with the whole Sabbat and its methods.<br />Still, not  surprisingly, it does a somewhat better job of depicting the Tzimisce. For  example, it captures the rivalries between the Tzimisce and the Lasombra  well but misses little things like just how the Lasombra (especially those  who work with Cardinal Moncada) tend to regard Catholicism.  There's also a  grotesque carnival atmosphere to the proceedings that is pure Tzimisce.  <br />This book is not, as they say, suited for younger or more sensitive  readers.  It is, however, both good source material for the game and,  despite its scattered focus, an entertaining story in itself especially for  those who enjoy the Sabbat. It establishes fascinating villians and  anti-heros for the series.  (The more conventionally heroic characters  don't show up until later books.) Although it stresses the larger campaign  over individual characters, it's also early enough in the series that you  should be able to follow it without reading what came before. (Incidents  from TOREADOR are retold from other points of view here, though, and you'll  miss that fun if you haven't read it.)	2000-06-07
US	52439791	R2YWDMNTWSMO88	1565042441	293390511	Children of the Night: A Gallery of Characters for Vampire, the Masquerade	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very valuable resource	This is a wonderful gallery of important storyteller run characters, with full stats and background histories that give a good feel for the characters' personality and outlook.  There are exquisite portraits of each character by artist Christopher Shy (which earned this book another whole  star from me.)<br />The book still does maintain mystery about powerful  figures like Caine (of course) or the Regent of the Sabbat (no more  information about her or her predecessor either, apparently) but they have  some really well detailed Sabbat cardinals as well as the current crop of  Camarilla justicars and their archons.  Some of these are characters who  have been mentioned in past source books but never detailed. (The Gangrel  Xaviar, for example, or Cardinal Strathcona.) There is also an independents  section with examples of the Inconnu monitors for various cities.  They  assume that you can fiddle with these as needed and provide a basic formula  for calculating the typical level of abilities for ancient vampires so that  storytellers can make their own.<br />My main nit to pick with this book is  the fact that the selection of the characters listed seems arbitrary. Some  are favorites culled existing source books and fleshed out or updated here.  Others seem to have been made up just for this book, perhaps because there  are future plans for them in or because they would seem to make interesting  story hooks or because they are examples of a bloodline or character type.  There seems to be a disproportionate number of Assamites- even a Methusalah  whose stats are supposed to be mere suggestions of what it can do. (I guess  they have plans....)  Omissions are curious, too.  Theo Bell is here, for  example, (he's an archon) but Jan Pieterzoon is not.  There are Setites but  not Hesha. Or how about this- three of the four figures on the cover are  Anatole, Lucita and Beckett.  Their stats are NOT GIVEN in the book  (? ) but those for Lucita's friend Fatima are given (she's an Assamite,  right?) And these are just examples.<br />So go figure.  But don't worry.  You'll find lots of uses for what's here.(she's an Assamite,  right?) And these are just examples. <br />So go figure.  But don't worry.  You'll find lots of uses for what's here.	2000-06-06
US	52439791	R17303J1GETJ6C	1565048016	128952636	Toreador (Clan)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Adequate Beginning	An RPG tie-in novel doesn't have to be WAR AND PEACE for me to give it 5 stars.  It doesn't even have to be THE LORD OF THE RINGS or INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE.  It just has to be a REALLY GOOD RPG novel.  It should be  helpful as a resource to people who play the games. (In the case of CLAN  NOVELS it means that the book should have a clear, developed focus on the  title clan.)  At the same time, it has to be more than just an RPG  resource. The story should be able to stand alone for people who don't know  much about the game or who aren't reading the whole series.  <br />So what  have we here?  First, it's really hard for the first book in a series to  stand alone.  Part of it's job is to establish the intriguing and  unresolved issues that will shape the rest of the series.  It's supposed to  raise more questions than it answers.<br />However, a really good first  installment should also establish interesting characters in compelling  situations-  characters the reader can identify with and whose concerns  will move the reader to follow them through the rest of the series.   For  me, those kinds of characters and concerns didn't start showing up in this  series until Volumes 3, 4 and 5 (GANGREL, SETITE and VENTRUE,  respectively). What was I left with here was an intellectual curiosity  about where it was all going to go but no real driving concern about anyone  likely to have survived. OK but not great.<br />Then there's the title clan.   All the required things are here- the Toreadors' artistic interests, their  interest in high society, their fascination with humans and even a bit of  the tendency of the other clans to underestimate the Toreador.  What's  missing, I think, is any real sense of the Toreador's preoccupation with  beauty that makes them seem like something other than manipulative,  self-involved caricatures.  There's a whole gallery full of art here, for  example, assembled by a Toreador but it's only really discussed in terms of  how grotesquethe subject matter is and the amount of prestige it brings.  Another character does have the Toreador weakness (fixation on beauty) to  the point of derangement as part of his artistic process but mostly it just  seems intriguingly weird rather than a typical manifestation of the clan's  attachment to beauty.<br />In general, though, the book has a lot to cover in  order to set up for the series. It does a decent job and even has some  decent individual situations. (Good because you can't really skip it.) My  guess is that people will find things to enjoy and want to read further  based on what's here. It's just not the strongest book in the series.	2000-06-05
US	52439791	R1XNZ2LWSYJDA4	0679001816	34166691	America's Best Bed & Breakfasts : Over 1,600 Delightful Places to Stay in All 50 States	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Not for everyone and not everywhere	This a Bed &amp; Breakfast guide which assumes that the Bed &amp; Breakfast itself is a signficant part of the vacation.  It tends to focus on accomodations in quaint and stately houses in quaint and stately  locations.  For this reason, you will find listings for historic Galena,  Illinois (a small town, nearer to Iowa than any major center in Illinois)  but none in the Chicago area (even the more historic older suburbs).   Although there was nothing for Chicago, there were listings for B &amp; B's  in New Orleans and San Francisco.<br />This is also not a budget guide.  The  examples mostly seem to be top-of-the-line.  There isn't any attempt to  identify best buys, for example.  These are accomodations for major  vacations, not improptu stopovers.<br />That said, the descriptions of the  various B &amp; Bs are very thorough and attractive- they make you truly  want to go there.  They include historical information about the buildings  and information about what the owners bring to their businesses that makes  them special.  The editors take pains to note that the entries are not paid  advertisements but included only because of the writers' judgement.<br />One  detail I often found to be missing was information that would help me  orient myself quickly in a major city.  There wasn't a whole lot of  &quot;close to downtown.&quot;  I've been to New Orleans, so I know what  &quot;near City Park&quot; means.  By contrast, I could sort of tell that  some of the San Francisco listings were in urban neighborhoods but it was  often hard to tell how convenient to the center of things one would be.  A  map, of course might quickly resolve this problem but it's even more  helpful to have it right there in the text- especially since the book has  no maps of its own.	2000-06-01
US	52439791	R1HCODPL6ZQI28	1565048091	264524609	Clan Novel Assamite (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Pieces of the Puzzle	The good people at White Wolf seem to have developed a sort of fascination with the Assamites (go and look at the number of entries Assamite characters get in CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT if you don't believe me).   Unfortunately, I'm one of those who has never found the Assamites all that  appealing.  If that isn't your problem, tho, there's a lot in this book to  like.  It takes you inside the Assamite headquarters of Alamut, for  example, and gives you a good sense of the secret workings of the clan and  their internal politics.<br />This book is more scattered in its focus than  Fleming's CLAN NOVEL: GANGREL but less so than his CLAN NOVEL: VENTRUE.  There is a strong central character- the Assamite elder, Fatimah. She  shares the stage with other Assamite characters but, more importantly, with  the Lasombra Lucita and Lucita's sire Cardinal Moncada.  My problem is that  I couldn't really find anyone to like in this story.  Fatimah seemed stiff  and humorless. I generally like the Lasombra (which makes this book  especially hard to enjoy for a number of reasons) but I've never gotten  Lucita's appeal and she seems to have even fewer redeeming qualities here  than usual.  Moncada did have the virtue of being truly creepy but loving  to hate someone can only do so much.<br />In short, this really wasn't the  book for me and I was relieved to get to CLAN NOVEL: RAVNOS after this.  Still, if you click with these characters better than I did, then, yes, I  would say that this book does tell a story that stands alone- although not  as much as GANGREL does- and can be read apart from the rest of the series.  <br />But don't do that.  First of all because Assamites are creatures of  intrigue and unless you know what's been brewing some of the stuff that  happens here- especially with the Assamite Parmenides- won't begin to make  sense.  Second, the really fun and bestest thing here is the delightful way  this book fills in pieces of the puzzle created by the earlier books in the  Clan Novel series- retelling incidents from other characters' points of  view, for example, so that you finally have some idea of what was happening  and why.	2000-05-31
US	52439791	R24ZBMD4QJTOS0	1565048032	756504313	Gangrel (Vampire: The Masquerade Clan Novels)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Soooo you wanna be a vampire.....	Hoo boy. Got one of those Goth type friends who really wants to be a vampire?  Want to annoy them?  Give them THIS BOOK.  This has to be one of the grimmer, most discouraging portrayals of vampiric existence I have ever  read.  <br />This is one of the books in the CLAN NOVEL series with a strong  main character focus rather than a panoramic view of the struggle between  the Camarilla and the Sabbat.  A problem with this type of book is that the  larger sweep of the action may seem to have come to an abrupt halt. Because  of the tight focus, it's often difficult to recognize at first that the  more dramatic events in these books may have significance for the series as  a whole. If you're following the series and especially playing the game  VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE make no mistake: what happens in this books turns  out to be VERY IMPORTANT for the Gangrel later on.<br />The strengths of the  more character driven books in the series are that these books stand alone  better (you don't have to know or care what's happening in the series  generally in order to appreciate the story) Here, the main character,  Ramona, is a Gangrel neonate who has been abandoned by her sire to fend for  herself and learn the realities of vampiric existence in the process. It  tells the story of her struggle with her lost humanity and just to survive.  A problem with books in this series is that they can get so caught up with  sect politics that they lose track of the harsh realities of more basic  things like feeding.  Sometimes, it almost seems that the characters might  just as well not be vampires but some other sort of powerful, scheming  supernatural being.  Not so here.<br />The more character driven books,  because of their clearer focus, tend to do a much better job of emphasizing  the title clan. This books also deals with Ramona's first encounter with  her sire since her Embrace and her first encounter with other members of  her clan.  The justicar Xaviar even puts in an apprearance as do many other  interesting Gangrel characters.  Overall, it's a somber but fascinating  portrait of the Gangrel and their culture.  The Gangrel aren't lay about  philosphers, so there's plenty of action as well.	2000-05-28
US	52439791	R1AE3S4667X5XP	1565048059	627785002	Clan Novel Ventrue (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More an extended chapter than a book	This book is more of a transitional interlude than a stand alone story. It shows results of things that happened in previous books and sets up things that will happen in later books.  Specifically, it deals with the Camarilla  trying to regroup and manage the refugee situation in Baltimore after the  successful Sabbat seiges in Atlanta and D. C.  They have a lot of meetings,  discuss a lot of strategy, scheme and manipulate. It has a much more  panoramic approach to its story than Fleming's other contribution to the  series CLAN NOVEL: GANGREL. Although these proceedings are very well  presented with a lot of fine, small details, it probably will not hold your  interest well if you are not following the whole series.  <br />Unless, that  is, you are really interested in watching the Ventrue at work.  <br />What  saves the book and makes it more than a manditory exercise is Fleming's  ability to develope his Ventrue characters and the intrigues involving  them- much of it also involving the seductive Victoria Ash and Nosferatu  who play all sides against each other.  Although he's giving you the big  picture of the Camarilla's situation, Fleming's lens is not so wide that  the reader can't get involved in the dealings of two very important  Ventrue.  First there is the still all too human Camarilla star strategist,  Jan Pieterzoon. (Jan's sire is Hardestadt, one of the Camarilla's legendary  founders. He appears, too.)  Then there is Garlotte, the smarmy Prince of  Baltimore, a classic pompous Ventrue bully with a dysfunctional brood of  childer apparently sired simply to feed his ego.  And just so that virtuous  Jan doesn't get to be too much of a white knight, Fleming does some  horribly twisted things with the Ventue prey exclusion.  <br />As in GANGREL,  Fleming also doesn't shrink from showing the more harsh realities of  vampiric existence- whether it's the issues raised by feeding or the  cruelties involved in the inforcement of the Masquerade. Even though thebook may not have much of a plot on its own, the subplots are dark gems and  really flesh out the Ventrue and the special responsibities they feel they  carry.	2000-05-28
US	52439791	R11EVFGO0B9JHH	1565042662	836459468	Clanbook: Nosferatu, Revised Edition (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good but I'll miss the old one....	First, you have to understand that I liked the old Clanbook Nosferatu so much, I gave a copy to a gaming friend as a gift.  Like the original, this is still a very good book.  It contains lots of material necessary for  working with Nosferatu characters in VAMPIRE THE MASQUERADE along with much  useful new material. Not all changes were improvements, however.<br />One  thing that's missing is the way the art and layout of the original book  captured the experience of visiting the Nosferatus' subterranean world.  This book seems to have all new artwork and it is definitely top of the  line but now the visual theme seems to emphasize more the grotesque horror  of the Nos themselves rather than their environment.  The humor seems to be  mostly gone, too, and efforts to replace it just don't measure up. The new  fiction, seems to be the same story as in the original but from the  victim's point of view- which softens its impact somewhat.<br />In place of  that, there's a lot of text spent on giving the points of view of different  political factions within the clan.  Unfortunately, parts of this are so  long-winded that I got bored and skipped what turned out to be the  important part.  Editing problems aside, the new details in this book about  Nos society- the work on the autarkis Nos, for example- are generally good.  Merits and Flaws are included as in the original version- really helpful, I  think, in custom tailoring your Nos character's deformities.<br />Missing is  something that I would really expect in an update of this series: better  intergration of material about the Sabbat. But here in the Nos opinions of  other clans they are still just lumped together as &quot;Sabbat&quot;.  Also, all the character templates (all or mostly new) seem to be for  characters with Humanity rather than Paths of Enlightenment.<br />That said, a  definite improvement here is the new &quot;Famous Nosferatu&quot; section.  This selection of important clan members does a much better job of  integrating with existing material- here VAMPIRE: THE DARK AGES and the  CLAN NOVEL series- than the old one.  Also now included are MINDS EYE  THEATER stats.	2000-05-23
US	52439791	R4D47TL010H7N	1565048083	568600753	Clan Novel: Ravnos (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Man You Love To Hate	The truth is, there are two basic kinds of books in the Clan Novel Series so far.  <br />1) There are the books with a panoramic point of view that advance the larger story of the struggle between the Camarilla and the  Sabbat, tie up necessary loose ends, further develop complex intrigues and  so on.  <br />2) There are the books which focus tightly on a character or  small group of characters.  <br />You may not be able to move the pins on your  battle map as much with Type 2 but they tend to be the better books in the  series.  They tend to stand alone better (because you don't have to be  moving pins on a battle map to care what happens) and tend to have more of  a sense of being about the title vampire clan.<br />CLAN NOVEL RAVNOS is type  two, as is Kathleen Ryan's other book in the series CLAN NOVEL SETITE.   This makes them the strongest books in the series so far. (Gherbod  Fleming's GANGREL and ASSAMITE are the other two.) Here, the hero is Khalil  a charming jerk of a Ravnos who keeps outsmarting himself even as he is,  yet again, declaring victory.  His straight man in this farce is the  commanding voice of the mysterious Ravnos elder which he hears in his head.  (Rather sinister, too...but Khalil, of course, doesn't seem to notice that  little problem.) Ramona from GANGREL and Liz from SETITE are teamed up with  Khalil here.  Ryan does an especially good job of adapting Fleming's  Ramona.  There doesn't seem to be any big advances of the series plot but  there is some helpful development of the situation of the Ravnos clan as  well as glimpses of the Nosferatu and the New York Sabbat.  <br />And then  there's that Ravnos elder....	2000-05-22
US	52439791	R2LSL4I96BTC04	1565048199	402902989	Clan Novel Malkavian *OP (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Malkavian Schizophrenia	Much of this book is spent switching back and forth tying up loose ends involving several characters from the first book (CLAN NOVEL: TOREADOR)- a sort of panoramic approach, with serveral subplots, that can get scattered  and episodic.  Here there is a main character focus alternating with that  but in this case the main character is Anatole, the Malkavian prophet of  Gehenna and his story is told mostly as a stream of halucinatory visions. I  found them a little hard to sit still for while not finding anything that  special in the more action oriented scenes. The book has a sort of split  personality between action and surreal visions. Many readers may like one  aspect and be bored stiff by the other.<br />Also, unlike the better books in  this series, this book can't really stand on its own. Anatole's visions  tend to be either cryptic references to things that happened in the earlier  books or stuff that will only (I hope) make sense in future books in the  series. Meanwhile, the more conventional loose-end material only makes  sense if you know what they are supposed to resolve from the earlier  books.<br />Still, the different subplots in this book do occasionally  interconnect in important ways.  This is probably the book's greatest  strength- the way it suggests that the madness of the Malkavians sometimes  synchronizes and brings them all together to work toward a larger purpose.   Unlike some of the earliest books in the series, this one really does hold  up in terms of being about the title clan.  I've also noticed that I tend  to like books in this series better the more of the series I read- once I  can see how they fit into the big picture- and this may well happen here.	2000-05-22
US	52439791	R1L9O7BIBFIZMP	1565042247	67368063	*OP Montreal by Night (Vampire: The Masquerade Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ah pardon...must run to confession now....	No, it is not for the nervous or the easily offended.  And yes it has possibly the grossest, most degenerate illustration in it that I would never want my mother to see.  HOWEVER, this is still the very best book  that I have seen in the &quot;By Night&quot; series.  Yes, many of these  vampires are sick, sick puppies even by White Wolf standards but guess  what: THERE ARE WORSE THINGS OUT THERE THAN THEM!  Mysterious, mysterious  and very, very dark things.  And there are mysterious, mysterious and very,  very dark vampires here to whom it falls to combat them.  Some of the  packs- the Shepards, the Librarians and even the (relatively wholesome)  Navigators- sound like worlds unto themselves.  The Shepards even have  their own twistedly mystical Path of Enlightenment, unique to this  supplement. There is a very original vampiric society in this book that  gives the Sabbat a whole new dimension. Even if you can't imagine your  campaign ever getting to Montreal, this supplement is a must have if you  want ideas for a truly Gothic atmosphere (as long as you are over 18, of  course!) One drawback: the book uses the old virtues for Sabbat characters-  but a creative GM can adapt. (Used to it by now, right?) Utterly  fascinating!  And here I thought I was a good person....	2000-04-30
US	52439791	R1QP9GB8U486SN	0694515035	286200112	A History of God : The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam (4 Cassettes)	Books	4	30	36	N	N	Overview of the great variety of monotheistic God concepts	This is a wonderful book especially for people disatisfied with conventional modern thinking about God as either the Big Stern Daddy in the White Robe or An Obsolete Escapist Fairy Tale.  The hardcover edition I  originally purchased showed favorable reviews from relatively iconoclastic  authors like A.N. Wilson (Armstrong, btw, never, so far as I know, refers  to the quest for God as a &quot;Wild Goose Chase&quot; as Wilson did) and  from more traditional figures like Sister Wendy Beckett (the smiling  English nun who always appears in full habit and writes about Art History).   <br />The book takes a historical approach to the development of God concepts  in Judaism, Christianity and Islam and is especially good at explaining  Islam, exploring mysticism and less personal concepts of God  cross-culturally, reviewing how different things have been considered  &quot;traditional&quot; at different times, and examining how and why  God-concepts change according to a cultures needs and experiences. It also  reviews the different Hebraic concepts of God in the Jewish scriptures in  fascinating and provocative detail.  Needless to say, the Bible offers  several different ways of looking at God. (Armstrong offers very little,  however, that I recall on different ways of looking at Christ- for that go  to Yaroslav Pelikan's JESUS THROUGH THE CENTURIES or for more radical  contemporay views New Testament commentators like John Dominic Crosson,  Robert Funk or Marcus Borg.  For a better and kinder treatment of the  Deuteronomistic writings try Anthony R. Ceresko's INTRODUCTION TO THE OLD  TESTAMENT: A LIBERATION PERSPECTIVE).  Armstrong has also edited an  anthology of Medieval English mystical writers called VISIONS OF GOD. <br />I  found that there was so much to take in when reading A HISTORY OF GOD that  I could only read the book about 5 pages at a time.  The reason I am only  awarding 4 stars is because, like many books of this ambitious scope, it  can fall down occasionally on the details.  However, it remains a good  starting point for your own reseach and for identifying your own interests.   This book can changes lives both by vastly expanding knowledge of the  issues involved in this field and by offering alternatives to what we have  come to think of as &quot;traditional&quot;.	1998-12-22
US	52439791	R27F7FUR11J9C9	0687271819	541030088	The Moral Teaching of Paul: Selected Issues	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Insightful interpretation of the Bible's hardest writer.	This book provides helpful, clearly written and provocative background for  understanding St. Paul's thinking on moral issues.  It places the Pauline  writings on matters like homosexuality in context and shows how they relate  to pagan philosophical movements and Jewish thinking of Paul's time. It  deciphers Paul's often complex writings so that these texts can be treated  as a living witness, rooted both in cultural context and faith experience  rather than simply a morass of convoluted strictures. In addition to this  the author provides articulate commentary for people seeking to apply these  ancient texts to modern realities.  Readers who were intrigued by the  approach to scripture taken in John Shelby Spong's RESCUING THE BIBLE FROM  FUNDAMENTALISM, but perhaps found his treatment of Paul wanting, will  welcome the information and refreshing insights this book provides.	1998-09-16
US	52439791	R3SFGML8839Q18	0394729641	991661615	Montaillou: The Promised Land of Error	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic text on ordinary life in the Middle Ages	I am so pleasantly suprised to find this book still in print.  I first read it in a class on Medieval religion.  Basically, it is an account of peasant life and society in a villiage in Medieval France- taken from, of all things, an inquisitor's depositions.  It describes the people's moral and religious beliefs, their superstitions, the vices and virtues of their society, their social structure and so on.  Anyone who has any interest in the Middle Ages MUST read this!	1998-01-24
US	52439791	RHGF5GCC4GQ0W	0880794666	578579785	Albano-Waite Tarot Deck	Books	5	36	37	N	N	The IMPROVED Waite Deck!!!	Most of us learn Tarot reading and symbolism from the classic Rider-Waite deck.  At the same time, however, some find the traditional Waite Deck's colors somewhat drab and wanting.  Well this deck is the answer to that problem.  The colors on the Albano Waite deck are stunning.  At the same time it uses what seems to be exactly the same artwork on the traditional Rider-Waite.  All the symbols are there and all the details.  But the colors are much more intense.  If you like Waite symbolism but want better colors this is probably the deck for you.  If you could never get into Waite decks because their &quot;bland images&quot; never spoke to you, you must look at this deck! If you are just learning Tarot from books and materials that refer to the Waite deck, this is an ideal version of the deck to start with.   ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL!	1997-10-03
