US	52432257	RFHTQQVSAMWFM	0679760229	6837157	Quicksand	Books	2	9	11	N	N	An odd misfire from one of my favorite writers	Okay, so Tanizaki began his career with decadent, sadomasochistic short stories like \\"The Tattooer,\\" \\"Children,\\" and \\"The Secret,\\" and ended it with affectionate novels like A Cat A Man and Two Women and Diary of a Mad Old Man.  In the middle, there's some variation in the tone of his work (though self-destructive erotic obsession remained a near-constant), but there's a common thread of humanity throughout: even at their most degraded, the author allows his characters to retain some sense of dignity; the reader rarely gets the sense that Tanizaki is *enjoying* their suffering.  Even a novel as aggressively twisted as The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi ends on a redemptive note. <br /> <br />His first major novel, Naomi, is no exception to this, but if you had to choose, you would probably call it his most \\"cruel.\\"  Then came Some Prefer Nettles, which represents a major leap in artistic maturity and is probably his best work outside The Makioka Sisters.  And then, the current novel under consideration, Quicksand.  The strong impression I got from it is that Tanizaki wasn't sure in what direction he wanted to go, thematically.  So most of the novel consists of a typically elegant clandestine love affair, only to culminate in a lugubriously grotesque denouement reminiscent of his earliest work.  In my opinion, these two aspects of the novel sit together very uneasily; they do not seem to me to form a coherent artistic whole.   <br /> <br />I find it unsurprising that Quicksand remained untranslated for so long.  It's interesting for those who want to chart the author's artistic development, but I wouldn't recommend it to the inexperienced Tanizaki reader without some heavy caveats.  Pick up The Makioka Sisters, Some Prefer Nettles, or Seven Japanese Tales instead.	2005-05-26
US	52432257	R304MT7NFSWI51	0870117556	421005183	A Cat, a Man, and Two Women	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A lovely, low-key novella, and more	I sometimes wonder whom I like more: Mishima or Tanizaki.  I think what it comes down to is that, what the latter may lack in raw passion (though that may not even be a fair point of comparison), he makes up for in an essential humaneness which is lacking in the former.  Though he frequently puts his characters in the lowest, most degrading of situations, one never (excepting, perhaps, in a few of his early stories, in which he flirts with French fin-de-siecle decadence) senses cruelty in his writing; his affection for even those undergoing the most perversely self-inflicted suffering is ever-apparent.  <br /> <br />In the title novella which makes up the bulk of this volume, one sees this clearly.  Although overall a lighter piece of work than novels like The Key or Naomi, and lacking in the masochistic power dynamics that characterize those and much of the rest of his oeuvre, there's plenty of room for cruelty which many other authors (including Mishima, no doubt) wouldn't have hesitated to exploit.  All of the characters are quite immature and petty, and that the reader is able to feel something other than contempt for them and their little power games is a testament to Tanizaki's talent.  And the ending leaves one with a perhaps unexpected sense of lingering melancholy.  (To the reviewer who complains about the lack of a clear-cut ending, I've gotta say, if you're looking for firm resolutions, ya picked the wrong writer, pardner.) <br /> <br />This collection also includes two worthwhile short stories.  The Little Kingdom falls thematically somewhere between Lord of the Flies and The Chocolate War, and hints at a Zola-like facility for depicting grinding poverty, while the (in my opinion, superior) Professor Rado is the most conventionally Tanizakiesque thing in the book, with the viewpoint character discovering the hinted-at masochistic proclivities of the reclusive Rado.   <br /> <br />A worthy collection in all; a given for Tanizaki fans. <br />	2004-10-03
US	52432257	RTWXBXAM69MEL	0679722432	711632233	The Decay of the Angel (Sea of Fertility, Book 4)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Staggering	I must admit, I didn't really like this book that much at first.  I felt as if Mishima's depiction of Toru (the 'incarnation' this time around), with all the hyper-intelligent, will-to-power stuff, was teetering on the brink of self-parody, especially in an extended first-person section taken from his journal, in which he comes across as a more malevolent version of the narrator of Temple of the Golden Pavilion.  And then too the fact that he's just so over-the-top demonic didn't make it any easier to take the narrative entirely seriously.  Honda, elevated to the lead part in this and the previous book after supporting roles in the first two, is still an indelible character, but it wasn't really enough, and I was all prepared to give it a rather sour three-star rating.  However...however.  In the last thirty or so pages, Mishima, in a single blinding burst, turns the entire text upside-down, and ends up by undermining the foundation of the entire Sea of Fertility.  I know that seems like a narrative clich-big plot twists in the end that force one to re-evaluate the entire work-but this, I think it's safe to say, is unlike any other instance of the device that you've ever seen, and Mishima pulls it off brilliantly.  I cannot overstate the awe in which I was left.  Small wonder he ritually disemboweled himself afterwards-how could you write something like this and go on living?  I may not buy into his brand of cosmic nihilism, but that's not important.  What matters is, this is the work of a genius at the top of its game.  I don't suppose it needs my recommendation, since if you've read the other three books you're not likely to just leave it at that, but I will nonetheless put all my powers of persuasion behind it.  Not to be missed.	2004-09-23
US	52432257	R2EW6KC0QVN3MW	1594675066	216430786	Help! Mom! There Are Liberals Under My Bed!	Books	1	28	78	N	N	Comrades!  Please do not be reading the subversive books!	The text of this little tome is reprinted in Harper's this month.  It's easy to laugh at and make fun of, with its surreal attempts at parodying the author's strange conceptions of liberal thought (and if *I* have trouble understanding what the hell she's trying to say, what chance an eight-year-old?), and its cloying, heavy-handed efforts to make right-wing propaganda accessible to children, but mostly, it's just really depressing.  Is the conservative obsession with inserting their politics into EVERYTHING really so all-consuming that they must go so far as to try to crush the joy out of childhood itself?  All art, including great childrens' books, have something to say, of course, but this is no more about entertaining children than a Chick tract is with providing an entertaining story--that is, it's only important insofar as it indoctrines its intended targets into its worldview.  Dr. Seuss, for example, had plenty of things to say, but even at his most didactic--The Butter Battle Book, say--he was never as strident or obvious as this, and he supplemented his messages, such as they were, with really great artwork and fun rhymes.  And kids don't feel as if they're being preached to because they aren't.  Seuss knew everything about exhilaration and childhood wonder; Debrecht knows nothing.  I weep for any child with parents grim and joyless enough to think that this is appropriate reading material.	2004-09-23
US	52432257	R2H68KA88ZJX5D	0820451169	577022721	Chinese Chronicles of the Strange: The «Nuogao ji» (Asian Thought and Culture)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Rich and strange	If you've enjoyed such works as the Classic of Mountains and Seas and Strange Tales from the Liaozhai Studio, this should be a sure bet.  It consists of a miscellaneous assortment of fragments of xenofolklore reminiscent of the former, and longer anecdotes and stories like those in the latter (though in general shorter).  If you're unfamiliar with the abovementioned texts or others of a similar, you will doubtless be taken aback here: when Duan Chengshi says 'strange,' he ain't kidding.  Many of the entries simply consist of inexplicable incidents that Chengshi supposedly saw or heard from someone or read somewhere, with no effort made at any sort of explanation or resolution, which may leave readers who are expecting something more along the lines of western folktakes baffled.  Some of the stories do have more coherent narratives, but in general, it may be best to think of them more as bits of supernatural journalism than actual 'stories.'   <br /> <br />The pieces range in tone from lightly comical to extraordinarily gruesome, and very few of them seem designed to convey moral principles--good or bad (or, more often, simply neutral) things happen to people with little rhyme or reason, which only adds to the feeling of strangeness.  Also, Reed resists the temptation to 'smooth' her translation; hence, they generally have a kind of jerky, disjointed style to them.  Some would call this bad translation, but I disagree--this stuff IS completely alien to most western readers; why pretend it's not?  It only adds to the intrigue, for me. <br /> <br />Now, it must be said, the actual text of the Nuogao ji takes up less than a hundred pages here; the rest of it consists of copious endnotes and various other critical apparati.  A rather steep price for so little material?  Absolutely.  But what I REALLY find unbearably frustrating is this: I want to read the entire Youyang zazu.  I mean, I really, REALLY want to read it.  I lust after it.  But...I can't.  Because it DOESN'TEXIST IN TRANSLATION ARGH.  This is only five of THIRTY sections in total which make up the text.  The others are less overtly concentrated on the 'strange'--although there remains strange material aplenty--but who cares?  Having read Reed's other book, A Tang Miscellany: An Introduction to Youyang Zazu (two books out of one graduate thesis--pretty sweet deal!), which contains over a hundred representative extracts from the entire work, I can say that the more mundane entries are no less fascinating and evocative.  So this is a source of endless frustration for me.   <br /> <br />Non-Chinese-speaking Sinophiles know that even the most important and influential classical Chinese works are frequently either untranslated or prohibitively expensive (try finding any of the three volumes of Burton Watson's translations--not complete, but the best there are nonetheless--of Records of the Grand Historian for under a hundred dollars, for instance).  Thus, it's hardly surprising that no complete translation exists, but it's still terribly frustrating--I HATE it when my intellect and imagination are frustrated!  Frankly, I think that after leading us on this far, Reed's gotta have some sort of moral obligation to go the whole hog.  Anything less is just inhumane.  But I'm not holding my breath. <br /> <br />Still, if this is all we're getting, it will have to do.  Read it slowly for the full effect.  Then reread it.  It is endless fuel for dreams and nightmares.  Indubitably not to be missed.	2004-08-13
US	52432257	R1PQIPM6M9ITVT	4770029721	560636563	The Gourmet Club: A Sextet	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The more Tanizaki the better.	Okay, overall, I think that the stories in the vintage collection Seven Japanese Tales (as opposed to the Norwegian Tales that he was known to write in his spare time) are better than those presented here, but that's not to say that this does not well deserve to be read.   <br /> <br />Let's see...'The Children,' about three friends of sorts (plus the sister of one, which adds an interesting quasi-incestuous frisson) who play games which gradually become more and more sadomasochistic and protosexual.  Less refined than his later work on the masochistic theme, perhaps, but quite good nonetheless.   <br /> <br />'The Secret,' on the other hand, is pretty awful; by far the worst thing here.  The protagonist is rather obviously modeled after Des Esseintes from Huysmans' A Rebours, but if this is an attempt at mimicking French fin-de-siecle decadence, it's a failed one (as opposed to 'The Tattooer' in 7JT--that's a good one).  I suppose the crossdressing element may have seemed slightly shocking it its day, but I just found the whole thing banal and utterly predictable. <br /> <br />'The Two Acolytes' is an odd, uncharacteristic story with magical elements.  According to the introduction, it may be valid to read it as a parable for the Tanizaki's choice between secular and religious life; in any case, it's not a masterpiece, but not bad either, and it gives us a glimpse of a hitherto unseen facet of  his art. <br /> <br />'The Gourmet Club' is one of the weirder things to come from Tanizaki's pen, as a group of sybaritic gourmets go to ever more drastic and eventualy surreal steps to satisfy their increasingly jaded palets.  Very sensual, albeit sometimes unpleasantly so.  Not wholly enjoyable, but certainly impressive. <br /> <br />In 'Mr Bluemond,' we see Tanizakian sexual obsession taken to the extreme, as a young actress's meets a man fixated on his wife.    It's reasonably entertaining, even if you can see the ending--at least in general terms--coming from miles away.  Said ending does seem sort of gratuitously grotesque, but far be it from me to criticize. (who, me?) <br /> <br />Finally, 'Manganese Dioxide Dreams' is the most typically Tanizakian (I'm trying very hard to coin this word, obviously) but also surely the best thing here.  It was written at the height of his power; in the narrator, we clearly see shades of 'Diary of a Mad Old Man,' a bit younger.  If I have a criticism, it's that it's not a novel; I sort of feel like it more just *stopped* than really ended. <br /> <br />In any case, some good, some bad, blah blah, whatever, it's Tanizaki, when he's good, he's very good indeed, what more do you need to know?  Until recently, for some reason this book didn't seem to be listed on amazon.  Now that it is, what exactly are   you waiting for?	2004-07-31
US	52432257	R1E8UJ2XBA120E	0679734511	640559300	Demons: A Novel in Three Parts (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Bracing	Having read Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov, I had no idea how impenetrably dark this novel would be: let's just say that every single even mildly sympathetic, likable, or normative character is dead by book's end, while the primary villain, the terrifying Pyotr Stepanovich, gets off scot-free.  Ha ha!  Fun for the whole family!<br />Dostoyevksy's politics have little in common with my own, his characterizations of his political enemies are frequently outrageously unfair (although, admittedly, sometimes pretty funny--check the 'With Our People' chapter) and he has no sense of dramatic restraint; all of these characteristics are far more present here than they are in his more famous novels, which I would say are better than this one.  Also, more than usual, Demons is pretty formless; there's no discernable protagonist, and dramatic progression is plodding at best.  All of this notwithstanding, however, the novel does accrue a startling level of power, even as it makes you cringe now and again.  There are a number of memorable characters, lead by the endearingly Micawber-esque Stepan Trofimovich and the childlike Kirillov.  And then there's the aforementioned Pyotr Stepanovich, who is surely one of world literature's greatest villains.  He's utterly cold-blooded, obviously doesn't even believe in the cause which he nominally spearheads, and doesn't operate with more than a schoolyard bully's level of intelligence--and yet, he never comes to any sort of justice.  I cannot help but believe that this character portrait is not as unrealistic as one would hope.<br />I find that I have to sort of psyche myself up to read Dostoyevsky novels; it isn't an everyday undertaking for me.  But this one was reasonably worth the effort.  I recommend it to all conservative Christians seeking validation for their worldview, as well as fans of Russian literature.	2004-03-05
US	52432257	RM4UEUFMC4GR5	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	1	15	30	N	N	Utterly ghastly	You know, I've been somewhat critical of Murakami in the past, but even if his writing did tend to become formulaic, I would never have anticipated that he was capable of writing something as bad as this.<br />It seems to me that he was trying out a more overtly 'Japanese' type of writing than usual for him: there's none of the hyperkinetic jumpiness or gonzo plot twists that we find in much of his work; instead, we lots of vagueness, mystery, and emotional threads not fully explored.  I think he was trying to be Kawabata here (with the exception of the sex scenes, which, incongrously, made me think of Bukowski).  And I'm all for that, in theory: writers ought to stretch their wings.  But the reality is not pretty.  Make no mistake: Kawabata would not have won the Nobel Prize if he wrote things like this.<br />The problem is the protagonist and narrator, who is a deeply unlikable person.  Obviously, that in itself isn't a literary judgment; nobody would condemn Lolita because Humbertx2 is on the despicable side (actually, somebody probably would.  I don't want to know about it).  But the fact is, Hajime is supposed to be sympathetic.  Don't argue with me!  He bloody IS!  Every positive reviewer on this website thinks so.  Not that I wouldn't be willing to concede that ninety-odd people could all be wrong, but they're not.  He is.  Murakami is working in overtime to try to create a sense of melancholy/regret/bittersweetness--all centered on his character.  Unfortunately, he appears to be teetering on the edge of narcissistic personality disorder.  All he does his entire life is hurt people.  Sure, he feels guilty now and then, but guilt without action is meaningless: it's just a way to make yourself feel better without ever actually having to change in any way.  Murakami's characters always have a certain degree of self-absorption, but ol' Hajime just takes the cake.  It was utterly impossible for me to sympathize with him in any way.  And the way his wife is willingto enable his pathology is simply stomache-turning, and creates the VERY strong impression that this is really nothing more than an unpleasant masturbatory fantasy.<br />If you want subtle, lingering emotions of regret, read Kawabata.  If you want Murakami, read Wind-Up Sheep Dance Wonderland.  I can think of no good reason for you to read this misbegotten novel.	2004-02-06
US	52432257	R1TRVDUA2K1G8G	8370210554	15246285	Pharaoh	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not what you might expect, but impressive nonetheless.	I found this novel to be very different than the rest of Prus's fiction that I've read.  This is in some ways a disappointment, but ultimately, I'm able to see its merits.  <br />Initially, I was prejudiced against Pharoah, simply because historical fiction, as a concept, doesn't hold much appeal for me, and, true to form, I didn't find that the novel's setting ever really gripped me.  Your mileage may vary; it's not that Prus does a bad job of it by any means, or that the great amount of research that must have gone into it isn't manifestly apparent--perhaps I just prefer the dingy realism of nineteenth-century Warsaw (as depicted in The Doll) to be more arresting than this depiction of millenia-old Egypt.<br />Here's what I think is pretty incontestable, though: unlike The Doll or The Outpost, Pharoah is a novel that is more concerned with a Big Idea than it is with character, which I think is a bit of a loss.  Prus's precise deconstruction of the mechanics of governmental power is pretty near perfect, but, comparatively speaking, it all seems a little lifeless.  In The Doll, there was scarcely a character who wasn't instantly memorable, whereas here, the characters in general seem more designed as tools which Prus uses to make his point than they do as real people.  And even those that do seem to have the potential to be more interesting, like the reform-minded priest Pentuer or the successor's foppish adjutant Thutmose, don't get enough screentime to make the impression that they perhaps should.<br />However, I don't want to set too negative a tone here.  While it was slow going at first, I found that Pharoah really picked up for me around the halfway point; I started to get into all the intrigue, and the shakespeareanly (well, it's a word NOW) bloody ending hit hard and well.<br />So...right.  The Doll is better in every way, so read that first.  But this one oughtn't to be passed up either by Prus fans.  Dig it.	2003-12-31
US	52432257	R140URGVPYGP2I	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	3	5	14	N	N	We all like bacon cheeseburgers, don't we?	I've read three Murakami novels--or perhaps I should say, I've read the Murakami novel three times.  Because I can't help but note that all his books appear to be literally the same thing.  The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World, and Dance Dance Dance all have exactly the same narrative voice and the same choppy, ain't-it-hip plot structures.  Murakami seems to have hit on a formula that works and he's sticking to it.  Which, I suppose, is fair enough as far as it goes--didn't Celine do about the same thing?--but in Murakami's case, the limitations of his style are blaringly obvious, and one can't help seeing him as a one trick pony.<br />Still, let's cut to the chase: The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle was an extremely easy read, and I never became bored with it.  Murakami's jumpy, short-attention-span style doesn't leave room for boredom, and unlike in the works of, say, Pynchon, neither the linguistic style nor the underlying ideas are ever complex or deep enough to elicit confusion, or indeed to make the reader stop and think about them at all.  I plowed through the book in a week, primarily in crowded public transportation, in spite of the fact that I had a very heavy workload at the time.  So...yeah.  Fun.<br />Fun, yes, but, incredibly shallow and limited.  I'll first take the time to acknowledge the best part of the book; namely, the two 'zoo massacre' chapters.  Those have a power and weight that is quite disproportionate to the rest of the novel, and they would work well on their own as short stories--as indeed they did, in the New Yorker.<br />But other than that, we have problems.  I think what it boils down to is that, for all that Murakami is frequently described in breathless laudatory cover copy as 'daring,' over-the-top,' and whatnot, the truth is, he's a very cautious, conservative writer.  That might sound counterintuitive at first, but it really makes perfect sense.  All of his kee-razy plot twists would indeed be over-the-top...except for the fact that they're *all he ever does.*  There's nothing under the top to contrast them with, so that--ironically--their unpredictability and alleged wackiness quickly become totally predictable.  And the MTV-style hyperkinetic refusal to stay on any one topic for any length of time is fine to an extent, but Murakami far too often uses it as a crutch to avoid having to deal with any substantial issues in a meaningful way.  His modus operandi is to shake you up so as to leave your head in a whirl, then move on--and you're so impressed by the sheer jiggery-poking chutzpah that it takes you a little while to realize that he hasn't really left you with much of anything.  Everything is to be danced around, nothing faced head-on.  Kawabata could do that, because he was an incredibly subtle writer who was able to write worlds of meaning into impossibly minute nuances.  Murakami cannot.  It must be allowed that he is a good writer, purely in terms of, well, writing.  He creates very vivid images.  Which just makes the fact that his books are all sound and fury all the more frustrating.<br />[Sidebar: I would like to take this opportunity to mock the person who penned the laudatory quote from Publisher's Weekly (this might be from another version of the Murakami novel, but eh, what's the difference?) which claims that &quot;this is the sort of page-turner Mishima might have written.&quot;  Listen, Mr. or Ms. Publisher's Weekly Hack, I know that all you wanted was to compare Murakami to another Japanese writer and, since the only one you could think of was Mishima, he got the role by default, but that's STILL an amazingly stupid statement.  Even if we pretend that Murakami is anywhere near being in the same league, as a writer, as Mishima, their respective oeuvres are absolutely NOTHING ALIKE.  Geez.  Perhaps next time you can compare Kingsley Amis to Jane Austen--after all, they were both English!  End sidebar.]<br />However, it must be allowed, sometimes you need something light that won't tax your brain too much, and, be you in such a circumstance, I suppose you could do worse that The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.  I'm a little embarrassed for the people trying to claim that this is a Great Post-Modern Novel, but be that as it may, fast-food literature like this has its place; it's undeniably tasty, but it would be a bad idea to eat nothing but.	2003-12-18
US	52432257	R1Z24BJPS2WV7L	1887279342	642881969	Wizards Tale	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Great artwork.	This comic caught my eye with its very nice-looking artwork,  And, indeed, the one unalloyed positive aspect of the book is the art: it simply oozes with warmth and charm creating the old-tyme fantasy feel the artist was clearly going for.  It seemed to me that what we had here was clearly an homage to the classic swords-and-sorcery type of thing, and, although (let's face it) the vast majority of fantasy is hideously bad, I can definitely in theory get behind the concept, so I was willing to check this out.<br />My assumption was correct, of course, more or less.  Regrettably, it also features the ever-so-cutesy conceit of self-aware characters who know and frequently comment upon the fact that they're acting out fantasy cliches, but I suppose I can live with that in this one instance.<br />At any rate, I did enjoy the comic, in the hour or so it took me to read it, but once I was finished, I realized how remarkably flimsy and insubtantial it was.  For all that it involves a potentially cataclysmic good vs. evil struggle, there's no particular sense of conflict or urgency conveyed.  Sure, we know good is going to triumph, but does it have to triumph in such a lackadaisical manner?  The biggest obstacle is the title wizard's self-doubt, but let's face it, this ain't going to win any prizes as a psychological drama; we really need something more than that.<br />And what's the deal with the kid, anyway?  Okay, yes, I know that this particular template includes a humble village boy who goes on adventures and sees the world et cetera, but here he plays little meaningful role.  Characters have to have a purpose other than just being there because we think they OUGHT to be there, and he does not.  And then at the end they make him KING?  Okay, once again, followin' the template, but seriously, what the HELL?  He does nothing particularly noteworthy over the course of the story.  What possible qualifications could he have?  And just where do these people get the authority to be appointing absolute rulers, anyway?<br />So anyway, I can't really recommend this comic.  Unless you just want it for the artwork, I find it difficult to justify paying the heftyish price for something this lightweight.y to be appointing absolute rulers, anyway?<br />So anyway, I can't really recommend this comic.  Unless you just want it for the artwork, I find it difficult to justify paying the heftyish price for something this lightweight.	2003-12-13
US	52432257	R3IQPSDJVFT33E	061823649X	865354621	Spoken Here: Travels Among Threatened Languages	Books	4	8	10	N	N	An interesting book on an important topic.	First, it must be noted that any potentional complaints about this book being damaged by its eschewing of intense linguistic study is completely meaningless; this is a work of sociology, not linguistics; I'm not sure what sort of book such hypothetical critics are looking for, but the fact that this isn't it says nothing about its quality.  <br />What we have hear is an intriguing look at a variety of minority languages and the people who work, sometimes quixotically, to preserve them.  The tone ranges from elegiac, as Abley meets one of the last two speakers of an Australian aboriginal language, to bathetic, as what begins as a triumphant story of a nineteenth-century writer single-handedly dragging a language--Provençal--back from the brink of extinction morphs into a tragicomic tale of infighting and ludicrously excessive hero worship.  As someone who has always been fascinated by these issues but who has had no formal study in them, I found these and other surveys that Abley undergoes to be fascinating.  It's true that the book--by necessity--is perhaps not as wide in scope as it could have been, and some of the chapters did feel a little over-extended: was it really necessary, for instance, to devote so much space to Welsh?  Nevertheless, I feel that overall, this book was a horizons-expanding read, and I highly recommend it.	2003-11-19
US	52432257	R2ZNSLG3I79GP7	0679424520	476200848	The Makioka Sisters (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Slow and compelling	Others have commented that this book is slow-going, which I can understand--there certainly isn't a great deal of what you'd call 'action,' in a Hollywood sense--but on the other hand, I found it an amazingly effortless read; pages would simply melt away at an astonishing rate.  It's very much a novel after the manner of the nineteenth-century (though it's probably best to avoid Jane Austen comparisons, which, though superficially appealing, ultimately don't really work very well): no modernist jiggery pokery (not that I have anything against that, necessarily), just a straightforward narrative of things that happen.  One sometimes forgets how effective this can be, when done well.  <br />All this notwithstanding, perhaps the most interesting thing about the novel is its ambiguity: out of the three sisters (the fourth, Tsuruko, being a very minor character, although this does also apply to her, to an extent), only one, Sachiko (the novel's de facto protagonist, I suppose), is made entirely psychologically comprehensible by Tanizaki.  Taeko and Yukiko remain to a large extent mysterious throughout.  I find that the glib characterizations of them and other major characters in the Vintage edition to be very misleading: nobody in the book can be so easily characterized.  Even Taeko's old flame Okubata, who the reader is likely to quickly write off as 'total jerk,' is ultimately given the benefit of the doubt.<br />One thing that may seem strange to some readers is the way that world events of the time are understated.  The novel takes place in the years leading up to World War II, concluding at the end of 1940.  However, in spite of occasional references to Hitler and \\"the China Incident,\\" there is little effect on the lives of the Makiokas, and insofar as they are aware of these things, they remain undemonstratively, naturally, loyal to their country and their allies.  This, of course, is nothing more than self-evidently realistic, and I certainly hope nobody would bederanged enough to condemn them for it.  People have to live their lives; it's not as if the US hasn't been involved in its share of ignoble wars (hmm...can we think of a current example?).  Tankizaki may be subtly critiquing this behavior, but it never becomes more than an undercurrent.<br />At ANY rate!  This is nothing like my preconception of what Japanese novels are supposed to be like was, based on reading Mishima and Kawabata.  It is, however, excellent in its own right.  If you want something a little more circumspect than your average novel (whatever THAT beast would like!), go for it.	2003-08-29
US	52432257	R1NUTJW6012W8F	0801863236	862390230	Jerusalem Delivered (Gerusalemme liberata)	Books	3	22	56	N	N	Well...	It is what it is. I suppose the fact that I wish it was something different is hardly Tasso's fault; nonetheless, I have mixed emotions regarding this poem.<br />First of all, let's be honest here: Jerusalem Delivered has a worldview which just about everyone reading today is going to find totally repulsive: Christians--good; Pagans--bad. Utterly and absolutely. True, Tasso's pagans (ie, Muslims) are occasionally praised, and his Christians sometimes stray, but really, let's not fool ourselves: this doesn't really amount to anything. Although Tasso's life was endlessly conflicted, here he is trying his hardest to write from a good, Christian viewpoint. I wasn't expecting the civilized urbanity of Ariosto or anything, but this is really a bit much. The climax of the poem, with Christians unapologetically slaughtering, pillaging, and raping (no, seriously--check book XIX, verse XXX)--all without a hint of disapprobation from Tasso--is pretty stomache-turning. You could *try* to argue that the scene is meant as some sort of subtle criticism in itself, but I really don't think you'll find any textual evidence for this. Contrast this with the sacking of Biserta in Orlando Furioso--surely that poem's darkest moment--and the difference becomes obvious. I realize that some people will dismiss my criticisms as nothing more than political correctness run amuck, and, ..., maybe it is, but I make no apologies. As a fairly serious reader, I'm accustomed to simply accepting things in literature that run totally counter to my own ideology, but being, alas, a mere human, there IS a limit. I want to stress that this only became irksome to me towards the poem's end, but it definitely affected my opinion of the work as a whole. <br />Even if one is capable of totally submerging one's own biased, twenty-first-century view, however, the fact remains that the poem is frequently...well, sort of boring. I think few would argue that, poetically, the best part of the poem, by quite some margin, is the account of Rinaldo's not-so-brutal imprisonment in Armida's bower. This is where Tasso really lets himself go, giving in, I think, to his real poetic instincts. Otherwhere, however, things get a bit less interesting. The battles, its true, have a certain icy, Homeric grandeur, but a little of that--even in Homer himself--goes a long way, and when the two teams aren't duking it out, we're made to deal with the characters, which can be trying. Like many writers, Tasso makes his villains much more interesting that his heroes: Argantes is surely one of the greatest epic villains ever, with his single-minded, unquenchable fury easily rivalling the Wrath of Achilles itself; Clorinda, in spite of a disheartening but inevitable last-minute change of heart, is one of your more badass woman warriors, if not quite up to the standards of Ariosto's Marfisa; and Armida is a femme fatale with few rivals. So that's all well and good, but the focus, unavoidably, is on the heroes. Let's cut to the chase: Godfrey is incredibly boring, in spite of a truly feeble effort by Anthony Esolen to defend him. And, while Rinaldo and Tancredie do have their own crises which elevate them a little above the pack, most of the Christian host is pretty faceless.<br />Still, all told, the poetry is enough to recommend Tasso. Because, occasional bouts of tedium notwithstanding, Tasso is a truly great poet. I'd even go so far as to say that--although I think I'd enjoy hanging out with Ariosto far more than with Tasso, and although Orlando Furioso is a far more enjoyable (and, let's face it, just plain BETTER) poem than Jerusalem Delivered--in terms of sheer poetical prowess, Tasso wins. Which is why it's so important to read his work in a good translation, which in turn is why it's essential to stay as far away from Anthony M. Esolen as possible. Your other, better, choice is Edward Fairfax's Elizabethan translation: Esolen may be more stricly faithful to the original, but he also has a tin ear, capturing only a middling portion of Tasso's sturm und drang. I suppose he would moderately acceptable if there was no other choice, but thankfully, there is: Fairfax's poetry is electifying, and well worth the time to search out. I'm a little baffled to see the high praise that Esolen is receiving from many (he should translate Ariosto? Please...as if there's a chance in hell he could do better than Barbara Reynolds). So, to put an end to this lunacy, I would like to end this review with a side-by-side comparison between the two. XVI, XIV.<br />Esolen:<BR>Look at the chaste and modest little rose<BR>sprung from the green in her virginity!<BR>Half open and half hid; the less she shows,<BR>the less she shows to men, the lovelier she.<BR>Now she displays her bold and amorous<BR>bosom, and now she wilts, and cannot be,<BR>the same delight which was the longing of,<BR>a thousand girls and a thousand lads in love.<br />Fairfax:<BR>The gently-budding rose (quoth she) behold,<BR>The first scant peeping forth with virgin beams<BR>Half ope, half shut, her beauties doth up-fold<BR>In their dear leaves, and less seen fairer seems,<BR>And after spreads them forth more broad and bold,<BR>Then languisheth and dies in last extremes:<BR>For seems the same that decked bed and bow'r<BR>Of many a lady late and paramour.<br />I certainly hope that settles that.	2003-08-02
US	52432257	R3G135PELUAFZX	014044694X	940678325	The Maias (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Yes, well.	Always craving novelty, I was quite interested to read a novel by a guy I'd never heard of from a country about which I know nothing, literature-wise--let alone one which, according to the helpful editors and amazon reviewers, is an all-time classic, to boot.  With Zola comparisons, to boot.  <br />So all right, I read it.  And now I find myself wondering if it wasn't...well, obscure for a reason.  It isn't that The Maias is a bad novel, exactly, but it IS the least-compelling book I've read in a long time.  Forget Zola; aside from a few moments of atmospheric vividness, and a nearly non-existent plot structure that could possibly be compared to Nana's, those don't really pan out.  Actually, it's manifestly obvious that Eca's big influence was Flaubert--basically, A Sentimental Education, only in Lisbon.  And, um, not nearly as good.  <br />I think that the biggest problem is Eca's failure to create a particularly memorable cast of characters.  Sure, Flaubert's characters are generally small, fairly trivial people, but they hold our interest nonetheless.  Eca's characters, with a few exceptions, simply don't; the cast is large, but most of its members are colorless props without much more than a single personality trait apiece who sort of hover in the background to provide the necessary heads for the novel's numerous interminable set pieces.  And the protagonist, Carlos da Maia, is emphatically no Frederic Moreau.<br />There are things that I liked about The Maias: the opening hundred  or so pages, relating the family's history in brief up to Carlos's adulthood where the main narrative begins, engaged me fairly well (Carlos is a helluva lot more interesting as a child than an adult, actually); his great romance, once it begins, renewed my interest to an extent; and said romance's shattering climax (helpfully spoiled by both the back cover copy AND the introduction of this Penguin edition) is appropriately, well, shattering.  The ending's also pretty good, if a bit heavy-handed--if you somehow had failed to notice it before, the influence of Flaubert's masterpiece should at least become apparent here.  Still, these virtues aren't really enough to drown out the vices in my view; getting all the way through the book was a real act of willpower on my part.<br />It doesn't help either, of course, that the Penguin edition is so very lackluster.  Given that Eca is an unfamiliar writer to most native English-speakers, and that nineteenth-century Portuguese history and culture are likewise generally mysterious, one would think that the editors would have made an extra effort to be helpful, but in this, alas, one would be wrong.  The introduction feels very desultory and is almost wholly non-illuminating, and there are virtually no footnotes, and those that do exist (all of them in the second half, which strengthens my theory that the two strangely biography-free translators didn't really collaborate, but rather each translated half, and then they mashed the two together--there's also the way the text abruptly starts abbreviating 'Senhor' at about the halfway mark) seem almost random--there are quite a few references that simply left me clueless.  The translation isn't so hot either; while it seems servicable in general, there are occasional word choices and turns of phrase that make you go \\"guh?,\\" and, as parenthetically noted above, there are some odd inconsistencies.  All in all, it seems that the people responsible for assembling this volume got as bored as I did.<br />I don't know--I certainly don't want to discourage the exploration of other cultures, but if this is really the best that nineteenth-century Portugal has to offer...well.  If you absolutely MUST READ a nineteenth-century Portuguese novel, knock yourselves out, I suppose, but if all you're after is something from the last century in a language not traditionally associated with a great literary tradition, I humbly recommend Boleslaw Prus for your consideration.  <br />Thank you for listening.	2003-06-17
US	52432257	R3QLCPFZ9J20II	014044694X	940678325	The Maias (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Yes, well.	Always craving novelty, I was quite interested to read a novel by a guy I'd never heard of from a country about which I know nothing, literature-wise--let alone one which, according to the helpful editors and amazon reviewers, is an all-time classic, to boot. With Zola comparisons, to boot. <br />So all right, I read it. And now I find myself wondering if it wasn't...well, obscure for a reason. It isn't that The Maias is a bad novel, exactly, but it IS the least-compelling book I've read in a long time. Forget Zola; aside from a few moments of atmospheric vividness, and a nearly non-existent plot structure that could possibly be compared to Nana's, those don't really pan out. Actually, it's manifestly obvious that Eca's big influence was Flaubert--basically, A Sentimental Education, only in Lisbon. And, um, not nearly as good. <br />I think that the biggest problem is Eca's failure to create a particularly memorable cast of characters. Sure, Flaubert's characters are generally small, fairly trivial people, but they hold our interest nonetheless. Eca's characters, with a few exceptions, simply don't; the cast is large, but most of its members are colorless props without much more than a single personality trait apiece who sort of hover in the background to provide the necessary heads for the novel's numerous interminable set pieces. And the protagonist, Carlos da Maia, is emphatically no Frederic Moreau.<br />There are things that I liked about The Maias: the opening hundred or so pages, relating the family's history in brief up to Carlos's adulthood where the main narrative begins, engaged me fairly well (Carlos is a helluva lot more interesting as a child than an adult, actually); his great romance, once it begins, renewed my interest to an extent; and said romance's shattering climax (helpfully spoiled by both the back cover copy AND the introduction of this Penguin edition) is appropriately, well, shattering. The ending's also pretty good, if a bit heavy-handed--if you somehow had failed to notice it before, the influence of Flaubert's masterpiece should at least become apparent here. Still, these virtues aren't really enough to drown out the vices in my view; getting all the way through the book was a real act of willpower on my part.<br />It doesn't help either, of course, that the Penguin edition is so very lackluster. Given that Eca is an unfamiliar writer to most native English-speakers, and that nineteenth-century Portuguese history and culture are likewise generally mysterious, one would think that the editors would have made an extra effort to be helpful, but in this, alas, one would be wrong. The introduction feels very desultory and is almost wholly non-illuminating, there are virtually no footnotes, and those that do exist (all of them in the second half, which strengthens my theory that the two strangely biography-free translators didn't really collaborate, but rather each translated half, and then they mashed the two together--there's also the way the text abruptly starts abbreviating 'Senhor' at about the halfway mark) seem almost random--there are quite a few references that simply left me clueless. The translation isn't so hot either; while it seems servicable in general, there are occasional word choices and turns of phrase that make you go \\"guh?,\\" and, as parenthetically noted above, there are some odd inconsistencies. All in all, it seems that the people responsible for assembling this volume got as bored as I did.<br />I don't know--I certainly don't want to discourage the exploration of other cultures, but if this is really the best that nineteenth-century Portugal has to offer...well. If you absolutely MUST read a nineteenth-century Portuguese novel, knock yourselves out, I suppose, but if all you're after is something from the last century in a language not traditionally associated with a great literary tradition, I humbly recommend Boleslaw Prus for your consideration. <br />Thank you for listening.	2003-06-17
US	52432257	R33YA32XR3TC9X	0393970132	645845418	McTeague (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Remorseless, brutal, utterly necessary	Some aspects of McTeague are a little on the amateurish side; it can be psychologically clumsy, and some of the symbolism seems a bit labored (hey, Norris was in his twenties, whaddaya expect?).  This, however, is irrelevant, because, truly, it is the most visceral novel I've read in ages, pulling no punches, and with easily the most nightmarish ending I've ever encountered in a 'realistic' novel (whatever you do, don't spoil it for yourself).  Norris's single token attempt at lightening the mood is a secondary romantic subplot, but really, you'll be so overwhelmed by the novel's main thread, you'll barely notice. <br />Norris was heavily, heavily influenced by Zola, and it shows on ever page.  And, while his writing might not be up to that of The Man at his height (though if he hadn't died at thirty-two...the mind reels at the possibilities), he nonetheless displays all of Emile's best tendencies: the talent for atmosphere, the firm refusal to ever relent, the simply-drawn but deeply memorable characters...it's all there.  Written in English, by an American.  One of those things that might contribute to my being proud of my country, if not for various other issues.<br />Seriously, dudes and dudesses...it's difficult for me to imagine how one could fail to be awestruck by this novel.  Anyone interested in American fiction, naturalism, or just kickass writing in general should most definitely not miss it.	2003-06-14
US	52432257	RDNB9Q7007WO6	006093266X	925560342	Collected Novellas (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Two out of three ain't bad.	The less said about 'Leaf Storm,' the better, I think.  It was Garcia Marquez's first piece of long fiction, written in his twenties, and the truth is, it's not very good.  Actually, it's pretty bad.  It's overwritten in that 'bad Faulkner' way, and it lacks anything that would make for an interesting story--compelling characters, powerful conflicts, interesting ideas--none of these are to be found therein.  It feels as if it should have received quite a bit of revision before publication.  As it stands, its only real value is as an embryonic draft of One Hundred Years of Solitude.  <br />'No One Writes to the Colonel,' on the other hand, is a truly excellent story.  It's a slow, meditative piece with very little action, chronicling a month or so in the life of the title character and his wife in a stagnant Colombian town as he waits in vain for the pension, which he has been owed for fifteen years, to arrive in the mail.  Although it's a subdued story saturated with sorrow and regret, it also features a strong undercurrent of hope which cannot be extinguished.  The Colonel is an inspiring character, and, after One Hundred Years of Solitude, his story is my favorite thing I've read by Garcia Marquez.  Apparently there's been a movie made of it, but I have no desire to see it.<br />'Chronicle of a Death Foretold' is also very good.  It tells of the events surrounding and leading up to a brutal murder which ultimately implicates an entire town.  Featuring the recollections of dozens of characters who were involved in the event, peripherally or seriously, it weaves a mesmerizing web of small events that all happen just the wrong way.  The death is indeed 'foretold;' it could easily have been prevented by just about anyone in the story, yet somehow, no one does.  In spite of knowing what's going to happen from the beginning, the story remains riveting, and even suspenseful, throughout.  Don't miss it.<br />This volume is certainly a must-own for Garcia Marquez fans.  Combined with Collected Stories, it includes the entire body of his early short fiction--so don't buy Leaf Storm and Other Stories, No One Writes to the Colonel and Other Stories, Innocent Erdendira and Other Stories, or Chronicle of a Death Foretold.  They're redundant.  No sense flinging money out windows, eh?  Cheers!	2003-03-04
US	52432257	RS4F8DSPQ40WJ	0060932678	495162113	The Autumn of the Patriarch (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Works for me.	It's inevitable that this book should be somewhat off-putting compared to One Hundred Years of Solitude or Love in the Time of Cholera--Autumn of the Patriarch isn't really meant to be a 'pleasant' read. It is a grim portrait of the title character, and other characters come and go without having inner lives of their own; they have relevance only insofar as they intersect with his life. It is without a doubt one of the least novelistic novels you will ever read--indeed, in many ways it's more like a prolonged character study than a novel.<br />Some people complain about the style in which the book is written--no paragraph breaks, few chapter breaks, long run-on sentences (the final chapter--fifty pages or so--is one massive sentence), perspective shifts mid-sentence and even mid-clause--but the truth of the matter is that, although this can become a little bit wearing at times, it is by no means 'difficult.' Not in the sense that Ulysses, Gravity's Rainbow, and Absalom, Absalom! are difficult. It can occasionally be disorienting, but in general it's always pretty easy to tell what's going on, and the style results in a surreal, dreamlike atmosphere that, I think, is perfect for describing the General's long, nightmarish reign. Sure, it could have been written in a more conventional style, and it could well have still been a good book, but Garcia Marquez's decision to push narrative boundaries provides just the right feel. After all, the General is a composite of many Meso and South American tyrants, and to couch his reign in more concrete, everyday terms would have taken away some of his universality (his selling of the Caribbean is a clear demonstration of this, as well as one of the most striking literary metaphors you'll ever encounter). He isn't really a human being; he's an implacable, negative force. For all his flailing around, occasionally making half-hearted and futile efforts to change, his life ultimately has no other meaning.<br />Autumn of the Patriarchcertainly isn't the best of Garcia Marquez's movels to start with (that would be One Hundred Years of Solitude, of course), but it's an important part of his oeuvre, even if it's not as 'fun.' I recommend it to literate people everywhere.	2003-02-28
US	52432257	R3IVAI41WU13I5	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Cute experiment; not much else.	When I started reading this book, I was really grooving on it at first, due to the sheer novelty factor.  It seemed--and still does seem--an intriguing idea, and I felt that it could really be something special if done correctly.  However, as I got farther and farther, my enthusiasm faded, and I'm left feeling that the novel was, in the end, about the sum of its parts.<br />The manner in which Calvino starts, gets the reader deeply involved in, and then abandons ten consecutive novels within the main text is certainly impressive, but it begs the question: why?  What is the purpose of this little experiment?  Yes, it no doubt replicates the feelings of frustration and annoyance experienced by \\"you\\" in the novel, but there doesn't seem to be any compensating factor that would make up for having said frustration and annoyance visited upon oneself.  Maybe it's meant as some big post-modern joke that I'm just not getting, but I for one fail to see the point.<br />The \\"you\\" sections aren't much better.  They start off interestingly enough--thanks in great part to the aforementioned novelty factor, no doubt--but the more surreal and implausible they become, the less interesting they get.  It's not the surreality and implausibility that I dislike per se (both of these are perfectly honorable storytelling techniques); it's more the fact that they're executed in a largely uninvolving way, in spite of a few funny moments--e.g., the rival university language departments and the discussion of how governments ban books.  Also, I have a very difficult time seeing how anyone could possibly find the barely-there romance between \\"you\\" and Ludmilla at all affecting; I find the amazon review's charterizing the novel as \\"deeply romantic\\" to be baffling.<br />Yes, there is some very good writing on display here, and there are some profound insights into the nature of reading, but I'm sorry to say that these alone, without a much stronger framework than the one in evidence here, do not agreat novel make.	2003-02-13
US	52432257	R2MPH1QGVVFLY6	0156027593	548806220	The Cyberiad	Books	5	83	89	N	N	Dazzling!	Imagine a mixture of Borges, Calvino, Saint-Exupéry, Pynchon, Douglas Adams, Samuel Beckett, L. Frank Baum, Dr. Seuss, Lewis Caroll, and perhaps a little Philip K. Dick.  That's what this is like, sort of.  It is a collection of stories, some profound, others 'merely' entertaining, written by a man who was clearly drunk on sheer linguistic exuberance.  The sheer virtuosity of the language is breathtaking: the book is packed to the gills with puns, rhymes, nonsense words, and general verbal japery.  Huge amounts of credit must of course go to the translator, Michael Kandel, on this score.  I wish the book included translation notes; he must have had to rebuild innumerable language formations from scratch in order to make them work--and work dazzlingly well--in English.  Particularly impressive in this regard are 'The Fifth Sally (A), or Trurl's Prescription,' a delightful bit of frippery driven almost entirely by verbal dexterity; and an extraordinary mathematical love poem related in 'The First Sally (A), or Trurl's Electric Bard.'  The centerpiece of the collection, however, must surely be the 'Tale of the Three Storytelling Machines of King Genius,' which, as you would expect, includes a flurry of internal stories, some of which in turn have stories inside them.  One of these internal stories, that of Mymosh the Self-Begotten, is in my opinion the book's highlight.  If Sam Beckett had turned his hand to science fiction, this is what he would have written.  It's as strange and unsettling as any of Sam's short novels.  Finally, some mention must be made of the highly stylized illustrations by Daniel Mroz scattered throughout the book; they complement the action to perfection.  <br />Lem is clearly having fun with The Cyberiad, and it's contagious.  I had tried, some time ago, to read Tales of Pirx the Pilot, but I found the first tale so mind-numbingly dull that I couldn't bring myself to finish it.  This, on the other hand, is a truly excellent collection, and youcan rest assured tha I'll be checking out more of Lem in the near future.	2003-01-28
US	52432257	R1BX697IE98SHN	0786927402	980472752	Dragons of a Vanished Moon (The War of Souls, vol. 3)	Books	1	14	19	N	N	All the bile in all the world isn't enough...	I didn't have high hopes for the conclusion to this trilogy, given the shaky second book.  Gotta hand it to W&H, though--whatever expectations I did have, they handily passed under them.  I'm not kidding, dudes and dudesses--this may in fact be the worst book I've ever read.  And given the number of truly bad fantasy novels I read in my younger days (to say nothing of Like Water for Chocolate), that's saying something.<br />It's hard to know where to begin in talking about so appalling a train wreck of a novel.  I expect the massive, ludicrous plot holes are an issue.  It quickly became clear to me, as I read, that the authors had, in fact, not plotted out this entire trilogy from the beginning, and thus were utterly unable to conclude it in a graceful--or even coherent--fashion.  Thus, they make an utter hash out of continuity, both of the Dragonlance world as a whole and of the trilogy on an individual level  Minotaurs just sort of appear, with no rational explanation provided, just to make things harder for the elves (and, most egregiously, they don't actually have any baring on the book's plot--their purpose is, transparently, to serve as the basis for further [] books--I know I'LL be looking forward to the Minotaur Wars trilogy with bated breath!).  It is revealed that the tough dragons ACTUALLY come from Sooper Dooper Dragon Dimension X!  Odilia is inexplicably required to worship Takhisis because she believes that T exists (there might have originally been some idea of making some sort of deeper religious/philosophical point, but if so, that fell by the wayside)!  The day is saved when our heroes are teleported to the previously-unalluded-to Secret Dragon Prison to rescue the good dragons, which for some reason--which, naturally is never explained--is accomplished by Tas just sort of crashing through the ice barrier)!  It's all very surreal, and not in a good way.  What were they THINKING?  How stupid do they think we are?  <br />Then we have the characters,of course.  To put it bluntly, all of the new characters have the depth of a mud puddle in a dry September.  Even ones that had the potential to be interesting in the previous books are here little more than undifferentiated, brown sludge.  And the old characters aren't much better, even when they aren't given motivations that are wildly different than anything they would ever have displayed in the previous, good books.  And let's not forget the wholly gratuitious single-scene, non-plot-developing appearances of a number of old characters in a time traveling bit (Huma, Lord Soth, Ariakan)! <br />I could go on--but what would be the point?  It is painfully obvious that, at this point, W&H take zero pride in their work, and have absolutely no respect for the intelligence of their readers (in all fairness, I suppose it's possible that TSR made some unreasonable demands, but that's an explanation rather than an excuse--it doesn't make it any better).  I cannot help but feel angry that they would so willingly desecrate my childhood memories, and, I don't doubt, those of many others.  If there's one positive thing I can say about this, it's that the whole affair is so outlandish [] that it's easy to disassociate it in my mind from the Chronicles/Legends.  I didn't want to believe it at first, but now there's no way for me to deny it: there will never be another good Dragonlance book.  It's clear that TSR is going to keep beating this dead horse for a while yet, what with an insulting (and oh-so-ludicrous) ending that serves as little more than a 'too be continued' sign.  No thanks, guys.  You've shafted me enough.  I'm getting off this train, and I would advise all readers with a scintilla of good taste and critical thinking skill to do the same.	2002-12-31
US	52432257	R3OVFCNR22QC0M	0140447679	123884171	The Damned (La-Bas) (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	37	43	N	N	A bit wearing.	La-Bas is more like an actual novel than Against Nature, inasmuch as it has actual characters other than the protagonist, as well as a plot, of sorts. I think this is also why it doesn't work as well; in spite of the more novelistic elements, it still retains much of the earlier work's self-indulgence, giving the work as a whole something of a watered-down feel: the characters aren't that interesting.<br />In reading this book, you will learn more about historic views of demonology than you probably ever wanted to know, with characters earnestly expounding on possessions, curses, and exorcisms; this is given an extra edge by the fact that Huysmans himself was apparently a firm believer in it. It's interesting for a while, but the fact is, it does get old. Against Nature jumped from topic to topic quickly enough that tedium never really had time to set in; not so here, unforunately.<br />The back cover copy claims that \\"...when he [Durtal, the protagonist] meets the exquisitely evil Madame Chauntelouve, he is drawn into the twilight world of black magic and erotic devilry of fin-de-siecle Paris.\\" This makes the book sound far more interesting than it actually is. The twilight world in question basically consists of people sitting around and talking about the aforementioned subjects, and the infamous black mass at the end is pretty tame by modern standards. I can see how this stuff could have been shocking a century ago, but now I think it likely to arouse, if anything, historical interest more than anything else. I would say that the most interesting part of the book consisted of the sections on the child murderer Gilles de Rais, about whom Durtal is trying to write a biography. They were vivid, frequently fairly gruesome, and they provided a good, violent, fire and brimstone view of Medieval Europe.<br />Still, criticisms aside, if you want more of Huysmans than Against Nature, you might find La-Bas (I can't help but note that 'The Damned,' as a translation of the title, is stretching it pretty far) a worthwhile read. Word.title, is stretching it pretty far) a worthwhile read. Word.	2002-12-16
US	52432257	R2QBACTH1YW33U	0399149244	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Not quite.	Dave Barry's first novel, Big Trouble, was a lighter-than-air affair; featherweight, utterly undemanding, but frequently very funny, and quite enjoyable in its way.  This, his second, is every bit as light and undemanding, but generally worse in every way.<br />It's much less funny, for one thing.  Oh, there are laugh-out-loud moments here and there, but overall it's much lower on humor, and it has an unforunate number of grimly unfunny bodily function jokes.  There's a hot babe roulette croupier, for instance, whose excessive flatulence is a running gag.  Ha ha.  And then there's a scene involving copious vomitting.  It's not even slightly humorous, but I infer that it's supposed to be from the use of facetious phrases such as 'barf brigade.'  It's not that I'm categorically opposed to crude humor, but it has to actually be *funny,* don't you know.  These are not.<br />So what's the book about when it's not going for laughs, then?  Violence.  Lots and lots of violence, including a few truly repellantly sadistic scenes.  As you can imagine, these mesh with the novels lighter parts very uneasily, and they raise serious questions as to what exactly Barry was trying to accomplish with this novel.<br />There's not much point in talking about the characters; they're the same sort of lazy stereotypes that populated Big Trouble, only more so.  If there was a fun story built around them, this would be fine, but there's not.  Having it take place on a gambling ship was a good idea, but that's about all.  It's ultimately a pretty mundane thing with drug dealers--Barry tries to make you think it's a very elaborate, intricate plot, what with the dozens of characters and frequent quick narrative flips between them, but when you think about it you realize that it isn't, really.  Pure illusion.  And you'll have a lot of time to think about this as you sleepwalk through the long, dull, laugh-free climax.<br />This coulda been something, but as it stands I really can't recommend it,even to those in the market for something light and fluffy.  It's a muddled, confused novel, with enough unpleasantness to tip the scale away from the good parts.  If you're curious, get it from a library.  Buying this in hardcover would be insane.	2002-12-13
US	52432257	R1YTL9Q97ZGDER	0914984373	811024989	The Truth About Dungeons and Dragons	Books	2	26	26	N	N	Loopy fun.	If you dig Chick tracts (and who doesn't?), you're sure to get a kick out of The Truth about Dungeons and Dragons. It's pretty much the same mixture of highly dubious assertions, logical fallacies, Bible quotes, and spotty documentation that we've all come to know and love in Cap'n Jack's little masterpieces. The lack of an amusing narrative to go along with the story means that it is marginally less entertaining than a trip to chick.com, but it's all good.<br />Look at Chapter 9, \\"A \\"Deadly\\" Game\\" (oh, so it's not *really* deadly?), for instance. This consists of a shortish list of murders and whatnot allegedly caused by D&D (notice how that's apparently the only RPG that exists in this world--you'd think these people would be much more concerned by the likes of Call of Cthulhu). An impressive litany of mentally unbalanced people for sure, even the rigid cause/effect thesis isn't exactly convincing--untl you realize that only about half of these instances are footnoted. Eh? Joan, babe, if you're going to make stuff up, it's a very bad idea to include ANY footnotes--it just accentuates the fabrications. Or, I don't know; maybe it is on the level, and the woman's just a very sloppy writer. <br />\\"Two soldiers, dressed in ninja martial arts outfits slit the throat throats of an elderly couple while stealing their jewelry during a break-in. A D&D martial arts book was found on the dashboard of the truck used by the soldiers.\\"<br />...then again, maybe not. Believe me, Ms. Robie--if D&D sourcebooks really taught you mad ninja skillz, they'd all be instant bestsellers. <br />And then there's my personal favorite. Chapter Eleven, \\"What's Wrong with Dungeons & Dragons?\\" features a highly alarming list of bad things caused by D&D; eg, voodoo, murder, rape, homosexuality, sex perversion (whatever that may entail) cannibalism, insanity, and, of course Jungian psychology (I am SO not making this up). Prefacing this list, Ms. Robie tells us: \\"Dungeons and Dragons is not a game.Instead, some believe it to be a teaching [sic] the following:\\" Right. \\"Some believe.\\" That's brilliant, that is. Does Ms. Robie supplement her income by writing mircle weight-loss ads, I wonder?<br />I have to be honest, though: even though this book is in many ways quite humorous, it's also sort of depressing. Bald-faced, willful ignorance isn't pretty, even if has no meaningful bearing on anyone else's life. Ms. Robie and others of her ilk, it seems to me, was born a thousand years too late. If you're going to buy this book, fergawd's sake get it preowned. There's no sense encouraging the woman.	2002-12-06
US	52432257	R2CUAWD5LH10XO	0140447369	584154551	Sunjata (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	It's a cultural problem, I think.	Naturally, I was interested in reading African epic--and in a Penguin Classic, no less (the answer to the inevitable question asked by Penguin obsessives is: green. Just like the Asian ones. BO-ring). And this slim tome was certainly interesting from an anthropological point of view; however, it didn't work quite as well for me as entertainment.<br />I think the major problem here is that the storytellers who narrated these versions of the story are--naturally--presupposing a certain level of basic familiarity with the story, and so they have no compunctions about downplaying those aspects of it that are less interesting to them personally while highlighting those that they like. This makes for a disorienting experience to someone--like me--who knew nothing about the original legend. The inclusion of two different versions is no doubt, in part, an effort to remedy the problem, but it doesn't really work--the two stories are very different in tone, yes, but that doesn't mean you can just sort of combine them, as it were, to get the whole story.<br />The biggest blame here, however, should go to the woefully inadequate scholarly apparatus. The introduction is short and makes only a token attempt at providing the necessary background information, and annotations--even of things that are totally incomprehensible to the foreign observer--are conspicuously absent.<br />This book might be of interest to established students of Sunjata looking for different versions to study, but for beginners, it ain't much. An underwhelming job from Penguin, I'm afraid.	2002-11-27
US	52432257	R348GSFKWZ5M3U	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	It's a trip all right.	Although Amazon's practice of surrepticiously culling negative reviews is repugnant and wholly unacceptable, I nonetheless feel a certain sense of relief that the old, wrongheaded 'review' of Gravity's Rainbow which I penned--at the tender age of nineteen--has disappeared into the aether.  That's not something anyone needs to see.<br />A little older, a little wiser; now that I've *really* read GR, I can only agree with the majority opinion: surely, this is one of the best novels I have read.  Is it a difficult read?  Yes.  Kind of.  Well, it depends on how you're approaching it, really.  If you are easily discouraged, or you have a strong preconception about the manner in which novels should work, defeat is inevitable.  There are passages that you will not 'understand' upon first reading, if ever.  There are scientific, historical, and cultural references that will not be familiar to you (Stephen Weisenburger's companion is a useful, if flawed, resource in this regard).  The ending will confuse and unnerve you.  What I'm saying is, this is not a book that you will dominate.  It's certainly 'easier,' at first blush, than Ulysses, but its mysteries are more difficult to crack.  You must treat it like a friend, not an enemy, to appreciate it.<br />So why should you even try, if you know you won't be able to fold it into a neat little packet and smoothly file it away in your brain?  Because it's beautiful.  Even in passages that you don't 'get,' you must surely at least appreciate the language, if you're at all sensitive to the English language.  Because it's funny.  If you don't laugh out loud at the 'English candies' section, what the hell is wrong with you?  Because it brilliantly evokes the fragmented, baffling, terrifying nature of war.  Those limericks are as creepy as they are funny, if you ask me, and is there a more chilling concept than that of the rocket raised to the status of godhead?  And because it's very emotionally powerful.  I think this is really what gets lost in the argument.  Is not the very long episode recounting Franz Pokler's involvement with the rocket program, and his futile desire to regain his lost daughter, utterly heartbreaking?  Is not the book's penultimate--very short (as spare and economical as a great haiku)--episode, reuniting Geli and Tchitcherine and featuring a quasi-reconciliation, of sorts (nothing's ever straightforward with Pynchon, after all), between the latter and Enzian, quite moving?  Pynchon might still be a genius, but if not for this strong human element, he would not be a great writer of fiction, and this would not be a great novel.<br />Nobody's *making* you read this novel, and it is without a hint of elitism (well, intentional elitism at any rate) that I say that Pynchon's madness is probably not for everybody.  If you're adventurous, open-minded, and up for a challenge, however, I do not think you could do any better than Gravity's Rainbow.	2002-11-22
US	52432257	R2T87MDM706SK4	0679736530	961716822	The Hamlet	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Decent Faulkner	A lot of people claim that this novel is really, really funny.  Maybe I'm just not receptive to this particular  brand of humor, but I just don't get it.  A few things made me smile or even laugh out loud, but in general, hilarity was at a minimum.  Furthermore, at times Faulkner is clearly having trouble maintaining the fine line between stylization and just plain self-indulgence.  A clear example of this is the section with Ike Snopes and the cow, where he goes into this weird, faux-pastoral style of writing.  This is amusing at first--and the entire premise of the segment is effectively bathetic--but it just goes ON and ON and ON, eventually losing most of its appeal.  The man just doesn't know when to stop sometimes.<br />Let it not be said, however, that there is not some excellent material on display here.  The tension-laden section with Lump Snopes trying to get Mink to show him where the body's hidden is simply brilliant, and in the character of Armstid we see a genuinely frightening portrait of obsession.  Furthermore, Ratliff is a great character, even if the ease with which he ultimately lets himself be swindled by Flem Snopes isn't even slightly believable.<br />Ultimately, what we have here is clear evidence of Faulkner's best tendencies as well as his worst.  In my opinion, however, the former do outweigh the latter to some degree.  The Hamlet is perhaps not the best starting place, but well worthwhile for enthusiasts.	2002-08-09
US	52432257	R2IDG1J87SGH22	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	2	25	35	N	N	It's barely a novel.	I choked down Siddhartha in a matter of a few hours.  This, however, should be interpreted as impatience to be done with the thing and get on to something more worthwhile.  It was, in a word, tedious.  It isn't that the philosophy is bad; it's just that anyone with even a rudimentary foundation in Eastern thought will have heard it all before (and much more eloqently, I might add) in various sutras and the like.  Hesse isn't exactly breaking new ground here.<br />Still, it could be a worthwhile read nonetheless, if was more concerned with being a novel rather than a platform for the author's enthusiasm about the philosophy/religion in question.  But it's not.  There is essentially no action outside of the title character's predicatable spiritual journey, and none of the characters have any existence beyond the most basic: Gotama, Govinda, and the ferryman are 'wise.'  Kamala and the merchant are 'worldly.'  Siddhartha is 'wise,' 'worldly,' and then 'wise' again.  And that, folks, is all she wrote.  Quite literally.  I challenge anyone to provide me with a character portrait of ANY of these people that goes beyond single-adjective territory.<br />'That's not the point,' you might say.  'It's not about the characters particularly; it's about a spiritual awakening.'  Oh, but it's exactly the point.  Because Siddhartha is NOT a sutra; it is a novel (though one imagines that Hesse might have wished otherwise), and a novel with no compelling characters, meaningful action OR unique ideas is not a novel that I want to read.<br />I suppose I might recommend the book anyway; given how quick a read it is, and how so many consider it a classic, it wouldn't hurt to have it under your belt.  But I must strongly contest the notion that, reputation aside, it is a great, or even a particularly good, piece of writing.	2002-06-27
US	52432257	R3RI1RXVGEBIYK	0375719296	661410034	Dr. Bloodmoney	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The first draft of a great novel	If I understand aright, PKD's amazing prolicity stemmed largely from the fact that much of his career was spent in grinding poverty, and churning out novel after novel was the only was he could stay afloat (not wholly dissimilar from Balzac in that sense).  It's indicative of the man's genius that the novel's he wrote in this manner (of which I am assuming Dr. Bloodmoney is one) are as good as they are; unfortunately--but unsurprisingly--they are not nearly as good as they ought to be, however, and this is a prime example of that.  Dick takes on any number of themes here, but he never follows through.  Did he intend the novel to address racism and bigotry in general, via the characters of Stuart and Hoppy?  He takes a few experimental pokes at the subject, but never follows up.  Did he intend to examine the way the lack of an outside authority causes a community to develop?  The terrifying willingness of its inhabitants to play judge, jury, and executioner--and the general unconcern with the murder of outsiders (and on a related note, are we meant to be sympathetic too or repelled by Bonny Keller, who does, after all, cold-bloodedly arrange the execution in question on a highly dubious pretext)?--would seem to indicate that this would play a major part in the novel, but it doesn't, ultimately, and the reader is left baffled--this is not intentional ambiguity; it's quite clear that Dick himself had not fully worked out what he was trying to accomplish.  Was the Christ figure of Dr. Bluthgeld meant to be a meditation on faith and on the possibility of messianic fallibility?  Perhaps, but again, it never goes anywhere.  What of Hoppy Harrington?  An interesting and conflicted character who devolves all too quickly into a garden-variety villain.  Quite unfortunate.  <br />Beyond the larger problems, there are weird little inconsistencies which should have been worked out: early in the novel, Orion Strout attempts to run Hoppy over with a truck, while later on it becomesclear how bizarre this is;The physiological nature of the relationship between Edie and Bill seems to change for no other reason than novelistic convenience.  Not big issues in themselves, but symptomatic of the novel's overall problem.  <br />This should have been a brilliant, genre-transcending, classic--the characters are uniformly interesting (even with the inconsistencies of personality), and the post-nuclear world is wonderfully-rendered.  But it received insufficient attention, and so it's not.  A shame.	2002-06-12
US	52432257	RFVAPA8INHOGQ	1569248885	467388196	Celine: A Biography	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A fine overview	Celine may not quite be the greatest writer of the twentieth century (though he's certainly damned good), but he gets my vote hands down for most interesting.  The man was a complete enigma; an endless pile of contradictions.  Vitoux, to his credit, does not try to provide a pat 'answer' to the unanswerable questions of the man's life, but if you want a detailed look at what actually happened, you'll certainly find it here.  Vitoux writes with a passion and intensity befitting his subject, peppering the book with quotes from Celine's books and letters, as well as those of many other important people in his life.  But, it must be said, the REAL treat to be found here is probably the photo section, which features several pictures of Celine with his beloved Bebert--it's truly a sight to see this battered, disreputable-looking guy with cat contentedly dozing on his lap.  Recommended to all Celinians.	2002-05-14
US	52432257	R339E37CLHNUXD	1569248885	467388196	Celine: A Biography	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fine overview	Celine may not quite be the greatest writer of the twentieth century (though he's certainly damned good), but he gets my vote hands down for most interesting.  The man was a complete enigma; an endless pile of contradictions.  Vitoux, to his credit, does not try to provide a pat 'answer' to the unanswerable questions of the man's life, but if you want a detailed look at what actually happened, you'll certainly find it here.  Vitoux writes with a passion and intensity befitting his subject, peppering the book with quotes from Celine's books and letters, as well as those of many other important people in his life.  But, it must be said, the REAL treat to be found here is probably the photo section, which features several pictures of Celine with his beloved Bebert--it's truly a sight to see this battered, disreputable-looking guy with a cat contentedly dozing on his lap.  Recommended to all Celinians.	2002-05-14
US	52432257	R3QKXUKLPGASP	0075536668	161451712	The Sound and The Fury	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Brilliance.	I find it baffling how so many people complain about this novel's 'difficulty.' Yes, it's fairly dense, but we're not talking Ulysses-level complexity here, folks. I see no reason why a reasonably-intelligent reader should not be able to carefully read through it with relative ease. It's well worth the effort.<br />I must say, the opening section, narrated by the retarded Benjy, is absolutely mind-blowing. Some of the greatest writing I have ever encountered. Small wonder it's established itself as archetypal Faulkner; the sort of thing that people unfamiliar with the man's work are likely to have as their conception of his writing.<br />After the greatness of this first section, just about anything would seem a bit anti-climactic, and it must be said, Quentin's section, though undoubtedly brilliant in places, is the weakest part of the novel. The time-related symbolism often feels forced, and the chronological jump between this section and the rest of the book is jarring. Jason's section is better; it's hard to imagine a more hateful narrator, and Faulkner renders his self-delusion and paranoid obsessions with great skill. The final section, told in the third-person but which people like to associate with the old servant Dilsey, is also excellent, and contains the most poignant writing in the book. Readers who like carping on about Faulkner's racist tendencies would be well-advised to note that the black servants are by far the most sympathetic characters in the novel.<br />Be sure to get an addition that includes Faulkner's appendix. Some might complain that it gives away too much information, but I think that, if anything, it only adds to the effect, and it's beautifully-written to boot.<br />All I have to say is, read the book.  It's certainly one of the twentieth century's best.	2002-05-10
US	52432257	R1VTZVVVW44BO9	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	3	118	129	N	N	Mixed feelings here.	I am glad to have read Absalom, Absalom!.  The unknowable story of Thomas Sutpen and his doomed progeny is haunting, the heavy gothic atmosphere is effective, and I'm certainly not likely to forget it any time soon.<br />On the other hand, I have to say, by no means did I actually enjoy the process of reading Absalom, Absalom!.  The Sound and the Fury, Light in August--those I actually got pleasure out of reading.  Absalom, Absalom!, I did not.  I won't deny that there is some brilliant writing on display here, the sort of thing that makes you pump your fist and shout &quot;yeah!  Go William!&quot; (c'mon, I know I'm not the only one--'fess up), but more often than not, the prose just seems convoluted and tangled, for no other reason than that the man wanted to display his virtuosity.  More often than not, this does not work, and sometimes it actively damages the novel.  Regard, for instance, the following passage:<br />&quot;...because I had learned nothing of love, not even parents' love--that fond dear constant violation of privacy, that stulification of the burgeoning and incorrigible I which is the meed and due of all mammalian meat, became not mistress, not beloved, but more than even love; I became all polymath love's androgynous advocate (117)<br />Yes indeed: polymath love's androgynous advocate.  Faulkner would seem to be going for the 'bad prog rock lyrics' effect here.  Even if you can figure out what this is supposed to mean, the fact remains: it looks damned silly, a clear case of complexity for complexity's sake.  Sometimes less is more, Bill. <br />So no, slogging my way through three hundred pages of this stuff was not an enjoyable task.  And yet, for some reason, it really does stick with you, as previously noted.  I'm still not sure I'd recommend it, though.  I suspect that if it's your first Faulkner, it will also be your last.  If you have read others of the man's works (both of the aforementioned novels come highly recommended by me), and you have a high tolerance for literary self-indulgence, you may find it worthwhile, but I would take all the rave reviews on this site with a grain of salt: everyone likes the feeling of pride that comes from finishing a book like this, but we shouldn't let that blind us to its very real faults.	2002-04-12
US	52432257	RUADR22EIX5SV	0553560301	128394839	Face of the Rising Sun (First Americans Saga)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	I have to give Ms. Sarabande credit...	This may not be great literature or anything, but it was fun.  You see, after getting through Shadow of the Watching Star, you see, I found myself utterly burnt out on this series.  Sarabande's world was just becoming SO utterly cold and vicious, and the plights of the heroes (when there even ARE 'heroes') were so incredibly depressing that I just wasn't liking it very much, even if it did have a certain bleak integrity.  And then the image I'd mentally developed of the author was shattered when I learned she was a she--and I just couldn't go on.  I'd had enough.<br />However, eventually I did take a crack at the latest book--Face of the Rising Sun--and, surprise surprise, I enjoyed it.  I think--know, in fact--that a lot of this stems from the fact that there are no real 'villains' here, and hence no soul-crushingly grim situations to deal with.  In fact, the characters listed in the front of the book are, with the exception of sundry animals, spirits, and hallucinations, the ONLY characters in the book.  While there's still some pretty heavy drama (mostly concerning the coming-of-age of Xokantakeh's (big fat sp?) daughters), but I never had to force myself to keep going--it was compelling rather than off-putting.  And Warakan is still one of Sarabande's best characters, in spite of his bafflingly irrational obsession with Mah-ree(sp?).  I WAS somewhat angry over the senseless death of one of the characters, but since when has Sarabande ever let sentiment override reality?  One must take the good with the not-so-good, I suppose.  And there's considerably more here that's good than otherwise.  If you've given up the series before now for the reasons that I had, take heart: it does get better.  And I'll certainly have a go at the third story arc when time permits, though not without a certain trepidation--is this the start of a kinder, gentler William Sarabande, or is it just an aberration?  My money's on the latter, unfortunately, but now that I'm newly invigorated,her prose might be good enough to make it enjoyable regardless.	2002-02-14
US	52432257	R3IWNPN2F0T1QI	0192823671	249230335	Against Nature (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	90	95	N	N	Damn right.	Against Nature utterly captivated me. Never before had I read a novel that dared throw any and all narrative convention to the winds with such mad abandon. Huysmans himself thought the public would have no interest in it, and to be perfectly honest, I can't for the life of me see why he wasn't absolutely correct. And yet, for some reason, I just couldn't get enough. Chapters that do nothing more than expound upon Des Esseintes's favorite painters or Latin writers amount to little more than reader abuse, but I found them endlessly fascinating regardless. No doubt part of this was nothing more than shocked delight at the sheer perversity of the little experiment, but I don't think my interest was entirely predicated on novelty--Huysmans is actually quite a good writer (I read the Penguin edition, as translated by Robert Baldick, for what its worth), and Des Esseintes's whims, desires, and recollections are often so extravagantly bizarre as to be quite funny. And then, of course, there's the 'plants' chapter, which is quite probably the most grotesque and macabre thing I've ever read. It's a bit of a shame that it's stuck right in the middle of the book, as it does make the subsequent material seem a bit anticlimactic, but then again, if Huysmans had any sort of regard for narrative structure, he wouldn't have written this diabolical piece of work in the first place. If Zola was Pink Floyd, Huysmans was the Sex Pistols. You need to read Against Nature.	2001-11-20
US	52432257	RQCNUJSZB3K88	0140440453	368367935	Germinal (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Probably my favorite novel.	Mind you, I've only read five of Zola's books (I'd be plowing through the rest now, if not for the bane of schoolwork...grrr), so it's possible that the man's written something even better, but it's hard to imagine how that would be possible, really.<br />Germinal is such an amazing, multi-faceted piece of work that it seems difficult if not impossible to encapsulate the whole thing in a paltry review.  If the concept of a novel based around a coal miners' strike in nineteenth-century France sounds off-putting to you, be assured, it's much more accessible than you think.  Frequently depressing it certainly is, but it's never less than gripping, and with such a dazzling array of characters and scenes, you'll be riveted throughout.  Who can forget the allegorical Russian anarchist Souvarine (who I always picture as looking like Xellos from Slayers, for some reason)?  The lugubriously tortured sexual longings of M Hennebeau?  Or the horses who work in the mine, doomed to live a life entirely devoid of sunlight?  I don't think  think anyone short of Tolstoy is capable of doing animals this well.  And let's not forget about the awe-inspiring closing paragraph.<br />Germinal is frequently a melodramatic novel, but never in a propagandizing way--while Zola's sympathies clearly lie with the miners, he is careful not to pile the whole of the blame for their living conditions on the owners, instead making most of them into sympathetic, or at least comprehensible, people.  The blame lies with the entire system, and Zola's determination not to resort to simple-minded scapegoating makes the novel all the more real.<br />Admittedly, Zola's writing and use of imagery isn't exactly subtle (how often does he characterize the mine as a devouring maw--or words to that effect--in the first chapter alone?), but he has a rare gift for portraying large, panoramic scenes, as well as endowing smaller ones with a great deal of atmosphere (which latter talent is really more evident in Nana--also highly recommended)--his strengths are well-suited to the story he's chosen to tell, and the strong focus prevents it from meandering, as his later--somewhat comparable--novel The Earth sometimes does.<br />I can't recommend Germinal highly enough.  If you read just one nineteenth-century French novel, you really ought to be doing more reading.  But if you're that determined to limit yourself to just one, make sure that it's Germinal.	2001-09-29
US	52432257	R38VSY8ALFVJY2	0140441417	925590424	Sentimental Education (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Possibly a work of genius, but very strange.	Nothing in Madame Bovary would have prepared me for this: A Sentimental Education is the most aimless, undramatic (intentionally so, mind) novel I've ever read. A mediocre young man comes to the Big City and has several on-and-off affairs with a number of mediocre women. And that's about it, really. While there are in fact hints of drama here and there, it's all incidental; there's no buildup to anything greater. Even the 1848 revolution seems distant and somehow irrelevant to the novel's lazy meanderings. All of this is intentional, of course; Flaubert was clearly striving for as close an imitation of life, devoid of any of the artifice that most authors employ, as possible. It is, I suppose, the ultimate example of the French naturalism movement: Zola and Maupassant, great writers that they were, really had too strong dramatic instincts to ever write as dispassionately as this.<br />If this makes the novel sound terribly dull, it's really not: admittedly, it's not the most gripping book I've ever read, but Frederic, feckless though he is, does manage to be somewhat sympathetic, and the secondary characters are, by and large, well-realized--the working class hero type Dussardier stands out in particular. And the ending is oddly poignant. One problem I did have was Flaubert's infuriating habit of mentioning characters by name without having previously introduced them, making for some highly disorienting passages. However, even this is navigable after you've gotten used to it.<br />I do recommend A Sentimental Education to you. I really can't decide whether or not I like it more than Madame Bovary, but it's certainly an intriguing work. Flaubert may ultimately not be one of nineteenth century France's greatest writers (let's face it: he's no Balzac or Zola), but that doesn't mean he deserves to be lost in the crowd.	2001-09-10
US	52432257	R2MS2KFYOZ7KXB	1563895730	851220782	The Sandman: The Dream Hunters	Books	2	3	19	N	N	Eh...	Gaiman plus Amano?  Hells, yes!  *Brilliant* idea!  Really, it's such a perfect match that it's a wonder that it actually, you know, happened.  Unfortunately, the results are not as dazzling as one might hope.  The artwork is great, for sure, and I freely admit that the King of Dreams never looked so good, but the actual narrative...well, there's just not much there.  I'm as big a fan of Eastern folklore as anyone, and this is indeed a cool story, but I just don't feel like this it alone is enough to sustain an entire book, much less one that you'll finish in under an hour.  I left feeling unsatisfied: that's all there is?  For twenty bucks, that's kinda hard to swallow.  Still, unlike the regular Sandman comics, this could probably be considered sorta kinda almost acceptable for small children, so if you want to indoctrinate your kids, this is the place to start.	2001-09-09
US	52432257	R4W49PMBEKX9O	0740705326	144687629	Assorted Foxtrot	Books	1	6	30	N	N	Makes me feel dirty	Foxtrot used to be something of a guilty pleasure for me.  At this point, however, I find it necessary to cut the 'pleasure' bit.  This comic strip has always worked on unimaginative stereotypes repeated over and over and over, but it was amusing for a time.  But, much like Scott Adams, Mr. Amend has clearly reached the limit where he can no longer say the same things over and over and still be funny.  While perusing this collection, I played a little game called 'guess the joke,' where I read the first three panels and saw if I could figure out the punchline without looking at it.  I had a seventy-percent success rate, at least.<br />Of course, you do run up against the tragic fact that, no matter how inane and facile this strip is, it's still better than the vast majority of the other ones that clutter up the comics page, just by virtue of having characters with personalities, period.  That it's merely 'bad' in a field that's predominantly awful really isn't an excuse to support it, though.	2001-08-07
US	52432257	R1COBMBF5J3WV2	0836213114	456201013	Mallard Fillmore...on the Stump	Books	1	10	35	N	N	I'm shocked!  Truly shocked!	How can ol' Mallard be out of print?  Now where will we go for our large-scale doses of mindless right-wing polemic?  Zoiks!  It actually does seem somewhat odd that this wouldn't be popular enough to keep the books in print, or indeed elicit new ones...I suppose the cons couldn't even fool themselves into thinking it was amusing enough to support.  At least we can still read it in the paper...what WOULD we do without mean-spirited conservative drivel on the comics page?	2001-08-07
US	52432257	R34C57LFRML6SF	0828893624	656247774	Cesar Birotteau	Books	3	2	2	N	N	To be brutally frank...	...Cesar Birotteau is pretty damned boring.  It has its moments, but really, Balzac is at his best when his wild, fantastical impulses are let loose, fascinatingly at odds with his view of himself as historian.  This is a very restrained novel, with little or none of the former aspect of his character.  And it just ain't that interesting.  The painstaking attention to detail may be laudable, and the title character's rise and fall is entirely believable, but there's very little real drama.  The previous reviewer compared du Tillet do Vautrin, which is patently ridiculous: du Tillet is an unpleasant character to be sure, but he never ascends the heights of terrible grandeur that Vautrin does, nor was Balzac trying to make him do so.<br />I can't give this less than three stars: it's well-written, and, as always, Balzac has a fine grasp of financial institutions.  Unsurprisingly, that does not exactly make for the most riveting of reads, however.  Ultimately, Cesar Birotteau is somewhat valuable for giving us early glimpses of characters like Crevel, Popinot, and Gaudissart, but it's definitely not for the uninitiated.	2001-05-14
US	52432257	R2RKG2NQGS70S3	0786918179	485622641	Dragons of a Lost Star (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume II)	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Losin' it...	It's been a while since I've read any of W&amp;H's older work, so I'm not entirely certain: are my standards just going up, or has their writing style deteriorated considerably since the Deathgate Cycle?  Because, I have to say, here it's...well, pretty bad.  Not unreadably so, but still not at all good.  That aside, though, this one still has its share of problems.<br />So, we learn the identity of the One God.  Ooh!  Suspense!  Yeah, fine, except that, when it's finally revealed, a few pages from the end, it's hard to avoid laughing at the sheer banality of it all.  It had briefly crossed my mind before that this might be it, but I quickly banished such thoughts from my mind--&quot;they wouldn't do something that cheap,&quot; thought I.  But they did.  Oh yes they did.  I won't give it away; I'll just say, think of the single most obvious and unimaginative answer you can possibly come up with.  Yes, that's who it is.  Pathetic.<br />Also, let's talk about the characters.  When you come right down to it, a lot of them are kinda...well, boring.  Gilthas, for instance.  Who *is* he, exactly?  He seems to have no personality other than 'gosh, I'm concerned about the fate of my people' (incidentally, does his wife even have a name, or does she really *always* go with the cheesy nick?  It's silly.  Very silly.  And I doubt they even *have* lions in Qualinesti, so it doesn't make much sense, either.  Unless it means 'mountain lion'.  But I doubt it.  Hmph).  And Gerard.  Well...he started out with a fair amount of potential, but I think they've more or less blown it.  And the grim inevitability of his becoming romantically involved with that Solamnic chick (which, in one of the book's more ludicrous scenes--pp 352--the authors make him SPELL OUT, as if it wasn't obvious enough already).  And--I REALLY hate to say this, BUT--Tas has become annoying.  He's just not at appealing anymore.  Back in the day, he had a bit of an edge to him (one of the very first things we eversaw him do, back in Autumn Twilight, was kill a goblin, remember), but now he's just really boring.  He grates.  When they try to make him into comic relief, it doesn't work.  When they try to give him pathos it doesn't work.  It just doesn't.  I dunno...given the authors' pathological obsession with killing off all of the original DL characters, it is perhaps ironic that the only one still alive is the one you WISH were dead.  Bah.  I did think Medan was kinda cool, but of course...sheesh.  And I did like the idea of the silver dragon reduced to a blind beggar, but they ultimately do very little with the concept.<br />I'm just scratching the surface, of course--there are plenty of other things that irked me, but many of them would involve major spoilers, and in any case, I think I've said enough.  In spite of all, though, I'm giving the damn thing three stars.  Why?  I don't know.  I just can't help it, I suppose.  I'll grant you, it was compelling.  In places.  I just wish it was better.  Or, better yet, that it--along with Summer Flame and Fallen Sun--had never been written.  <br />One final note: although I can't deny that I'd *like* to see them completely obliterate everything that happens here via the time travel schtick, in all honesty, I have to admit that that would be the ultimate in cheesiness.  You dug this hole yourselves, guys; you can't just fly out of it because it finally dawned on you that it wasn't such a good idea after all.	2001-05-13
US	52432257	R20DGQYMO3IYZA	0140440593	413866978	Daphnis and Chloe (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Sheer, unadulterated bliss.	Man...Daphnis and Chloe.  Surely, this is one of the Best Things Ever.  An utterly gorgeous evocation of innocent, sweetly naive pastoral life.  I honestly can't think of a single work of literature I've enjoyed more.  It's short, but richly deserving of multiple readings.  If you're not capable of enjoying it, I don't want to know you.  It is truly Great, capital 'G'.  However, in the interest of objectivity, I should note that there is one thing about it that somewhat irks me: in the end, the title characters are revealed to by of noble birth.  That's not a spoiler; you know it right from the get-go.  So, while it was inevitable, it just didn't quite work for me.  I would have liked to see them go on in idyllic splendour (note the British spelling) forever.<br />That, however, is a minor quibble.  You must read this.  It could even save your life: let's say you've read it, and then, sometime later, for whatever reason, you decide to commit suicide.  You'd be very likely to think, at some point, 'hey, wait a minute--I can't die now; I need to reread Daphnis and Chloe!'  So then you'd turn the engine off, and after you finished your rereading, you'd realize, 'hey--life is GOOD!  What was I thinking?'  And you'd be right.  Something like this couldn't exist if the world wasn't in some sense fundamentally good.	2001-05-10
US	52432257	R1WMYBSOSXI1EO	0553111639	509121484	Callahan's Key (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Argh!  My brain!	Let's face it: wish-fulfillment fantasy is a conceit with decidedly limited appeal.  So, while I can't deny that I derived a certain guilty pleasure from most of the previous Callahan books, by this point they have most definitely outlived their welcome.  Stop it, Spider.  NOW.<br />It's wearing thin; really thin.  The problems of the previous books feel accentuated, if only because the charm is wearing off.  Here's one thing that I kinda noticed before, but which really comes into its own here: these characters are really incredibly elitist.  All of them have EXACTLY THE SAME TASTE in absolutely EVERYTHING, and those poor misguided souls who think differently are forever doomed to serve as nothing more than irritating stumbling blocks in the path of Jake and company, to be treated with general scorn and clambered over on their way to their glorious destiny.  There is no conflict whatsoever between any of them (beyond carefully scripted and self-contained 'incidents' with no real bearing on anything), and it quickly becomes kind of offensive.  They are right; everyone who disagrees with them is wrong.  About any and everything.  Period.<br />You'll have noticed, if you've read the series, that every single book has at least one example of the following construction: iconoclastic lost soul stumbles into proximity of the group; expresses amazement that such a thing could be; fits in perfectly; joins the gang.  Here, we have the disillusioned cop.  He joins the party, and then has no relevance whatsoever to anything else in the novel.  This device is what the series was founded on (if you'll remember the original short story), and Robinson is seemingly incapable of giving it up, even when there's clearly no reason to include it.<br />And that, ultimately, is the problem: the whole series is basically a one-joke premise.  And, while Robinson has done a valiant job at sustaining it for as long as he possibly can, even he can't make it go on ad infinitum.  Its time, clearly, has come.   Spider: end this farce now, while you still have some small measure of dignity left.  Please.<br />Wait, I take that back: write one more book, for the sole purpose of killing off the kid.  Could there even exist the POSSIBILITY of a more grating, obnoxious concept than the preternaturally intelligent child?  No.  Congrats, Spider: you've officially created the single worst character anywhere, ever.	2001-04-29
US	52432257	R39LV52I7TOL91	0140440178	483358679	Old Goriot (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	This is the one...	There's a good reason that this is commonly used as an introduction to Balzac: it's one of his best and most focused works (not that I've read them all, of course...).  He wasn't a wholly consistent author (and neither would *you* be, had you written 120+ novels)--at times, he can be downright tedious.  Not here, though: Old Goriot is a fast read, and utterly gripping.<br />The character of Goriot is handled quite delicately: Balzac plays mercilessly on our sympathy for an old man victimized by his daughters (intentional shades of King Lear here).  It's not a uni-dimensional depiction, however; as Goriot's boundless love seems at times to go beyond the merely paternal--he may be a Christ-figure, but he's certainly not a straightforward one.  Of course, the real show-stealer here is Vautrin, the master criminal.  As much as Balzac fancied himself a historian, he was really at his most entertaining when he went over the top, as he does here: Vautrin is wonderfully demonic, and one can't but get a kick out of reading him.  In contrast to these twin personalities, which tower above anyone else in the book, you have the titular protagonist, Eugene de Rastignac, a perfectly ordinary sort of guy--your archetypical 'young man from the provinces'.  He provides a good counterpoint to all the madness going on, and you can't help but like the guy, even if he's not really an extraordinary person.<br />Anyway: you should read this.  Yes--YOU.  I mean come on, you really ought to read at least one Balzac in your life.  And if you like it, you can go on to Lost Illusions and Cousin Bette.  Highly recommended.	2001-04-18
US	52432257	R1SGEEZS173B5F	0140443304	225810632	The Wild Ass's Skin (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Wacky!	Certainly not Balzac's finest, but still compelling in its own way.  The thing ya gotta understand firstly is that this is one of the man's self-consciously 'philosophical' novels, meaning that drawing realistic and complex character portraits is not a primary concern.  It's certainly possible to feel a certain amount of sympathy for Raphael, but he's not really much of a 'character,' and if this was one's first encounter with Balzac, one might get the false impression that he just wasn't able to draw deep characters.  Anyway: this is, if I recall, only the second novel of the Human Comedy, and in many ways the ideas presented form the basis for his later works.  The idea of success without any real work--success which turns out to be fleeting and ephermeral--is a common Balzacian theme, but here it's taken in a literal sense: Raphael acheives success not through his own merits but rather through the magical powers of the skin in question, even as this continued 'success' gradually diminishes his life-force.  Compare this with Lucien in Lost Illusions, who rises and falls in much the same manner, only without any sort of physical representation of this rise and fall.<br />Bleh.  The real question is, is the book a good read?  Yeah, more or less.  It definitely gets better as it goes along; one's patience is definitely tried by the antique shop sequence near the beginning, and I found the banquet/orgy scene to be more than a little tedious.  However!  Things do pick up: Raphael's courtship of Faedora is well done, and the novel's climax is wonderfully bizarre and nightmarish (I swear, it made me think of Lovecraft).  The reader's patience is rewarded; it just takes a little while.  As previously noted, not a good first Balzac (try Old Goriot), but once you're hooked, a worthwhile piece of work that provides priceless insights into the author's mode of thinking.	2001-01-29
US	52432257	R1EF7UD49RNQ1D	067975296X	337422221	We Can Build You	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Pretty dreadful, I fear.	Man...what a disappointment.  I've always loved PKD very much, so, as always, when I picked up this book and started reading, I had no doubt that it would be yet another mind-altering masterpiece.  What I got was no such thing.<br />It's obvious that Dick wasn't quite sure what he wanted it to do with this book; whether he wanted it to be about simalacra, or about Louis's relationship with Pris.  Either of these would have been worthy of further pursuit, or indeed, the two could have been intertwined, each shedding light on the other.  Dick utterly failed to do this, however, in spite of the back cover copy's feeble attempt to connect them.  Instead, he simply drops the simulacra thread midstream, without ever having done anything meaningful with it.  I very much get the impression that he just sort of got bored with it (which I can understand; it's certainly not his most inspired idea, even if it could have worked), and so he decided to focus the last part of the novel on Louis and Pris--which in turn fails to make any point, perhaps in consequence of the fact that most of it has been concentrating his energies on the simulacra.  Furthermore, the first-person narrative seems pretty weak, to be honest, and half-hearted.  I never *really* believed the narrator, the way I do with most of Dick's protagonists.<br />We Can Build You really shouldn't have been published in its current form; there ARE some good things here, but it desperately needs a rewrite or two to filter out the bad.  I don't think anything Dick writes is entirely without merit, but this is about as close as it comes.  It's a mystery to me why Vintage chose to republish this, specifically, when there are so many better Dick novels long out-of-print.	2000-12-05
US	52432257	RBMMHT1F5I5WR	0786915641	494288220	Dragons of a Fallen Sun (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume I)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	I probably shouldn't like it, but...	...what the hell.  By all rights, Dragonlance should have ended after the Legends.  Dragons of Summer Flame was in many ways a ludicrous novel, and I can't claim that this is exactly a masterpiece either, but it's...better.  Hell, I couldn't stop reading.  I couldn't help it; the damn thing made me feel like a kid again, and I don't think I've ever been cliffhanged quite so effectively as I was here.  <br />As far as the writing style goes, it's really not bad.  A few embarrassing transitions here and there, but ultimately it at least feels as if they care about it to some extent, in marked contrast to something like Legacy of the Darksword, or the tragically hapless and abortive Starshield project,  which read as if W&amp;H paid some random stranger off the street to bang it together.<br />At the beginning, there is...poetry.  If you want to call it that.  Now, I'm certainly not enough to argue that Michael Williams's poems dispersed throughout the Chronicles and Legends were in any objective sense Keats-level masterworks, but they weren't badly written for all that, and they hold rather a special place in my heart.  But this--jeez.  One wonders why they bothered, if they couldn't even induce Williams to give them something to use.  Bah.<br />Oh well; enough of this.  As much as I question this novel's integrity, I still enjoyed it quite shamelessly, and the wait for Dragons of a Lost Star (I thought the second and third books should have been Phantom Moon and Fading Star myself--you get symmetry with the 's' sound and number of syllables, dontcha know, but...) is gonna be a long hard cold five months  <br />...and so into the shadow,                                       <br />and not your shadow but the eager grayness                       <br />expecting light, I ride the storm away.      <br />*shiver*	2000-11-08
US	52432257	R3LDKBIGITALZP	1857988167	539421684	Lean Times in Lankhmar (Lankhmar Series)	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Bloody hell, man...	Sure, Fafhrd &amp; the Mouser are great, but whose bright idea was to change the formerly cool and moody covers to these hideous new affairs?  Now they look exactly like any number of mediocre fantasy littering the shelves, rather than being distinguished as the groundbreaking classics they are.  Bah, I say!  A thousand times bah!	2000-10-03
US	52432257	R8KHV0O2ZUPCX	0345295234	527505688	Of Men and Monsters	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Quite a lovely little novel.	I ask you: is there any genre other than science fiction in which the classic, seminal novels go out of print and stay that way forever? It's not bloody fair.  Tenn's body of work is fairly small; it could easily be  reprinted in a singal omnibus o' goodness.  At any rate...Of Men and  Monsters is, as noted, very nice indeed.  I'll admit I would have liked to  see a little bit more of some of the minor characters, and it is admittedly  mildly misogynistic, in that old-fashioned, early-sixties way--really not  likely to cause much offense.  But I don't even know why I'm trying to  dredge up bad things about it.  A highly enjoyable and thought-provoking  book.  Find and read.	2000-05-10
US	52432257	R2AATTPG75BZQ4	0140422102	478372586	John Keats: The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Keats can be dangerous, you know.	If you're sitting on a ledge overlooking a lush green valley on a gorgeous spring day, and you're reading Endymion, or Ode to a Nightingale, or The Eve of St Agnes, you could very well be so overwhelmed by the magnificence of creation that, without giving it a moment's thought, you would consign  yourself to the breathtaking blue, to try to be one with it all, and  because you've reached the absolute pinnacle of existence.  How could you  possibly top that?<br />*ahem*<br />This edition isn't annotated as well as it  might be, but who cares?  The poems are all there, and they're as  heartbreakingly beautiful as ever.  How can you--in all honesty--claim to  have lived without having read Keats?	2000-04-29
US	52432257	R18TXVIPUOT508	0786915269	787618175	The Annotated Chronicles (Dragonlance: Dragonlance Chronicles)	Books	2	74	92	N	N	Vaguely insulting...	Oh, don't get me wrong: Obviously, I love the DL Chronicles with a passion.  It's this annotated addition that I'm not so keen on.  It's a cool idea in theory, and maybe it *could* provide fascinating insights into the narrative, but quite frankly, it doesn't.  To be fair, there is an  occasional pithy observation (Michael Williams has some interesting things  to say about his ever-groovy poetry), but these are few and far between;  most of the 'annotations' range from painfully obvious to trite and  stupid--often both.  &quot;The backstory here gives life and direction to  the characters,&quot; Hickman helpfully informs us near the beginning.   Aha!  So THAT'S what 'backstory' does!  And all this time I thought it was  only included because the authors were paid by the word!  Thank you, Tracy,  for this startling revelation!  Geez, is this a first-year writing class,  or what?  And believe me...it doesn't get much deeper than that.   Particular irksome to me is the way the annotators don't hesitate to  include plugs for various hideously bad spin-off novels that bear any sort  of connection to the story.  I mean, come ON, guys!  The back cover proudly  proclaims the trilogy &quot;THE GREAT MODERN FANTASY EPIC!&quot; and this  may well be, but how can we be expected to take such grandiose claims at  all seriously if you're willing to make the implicit point that any  non-W&amp;H Dragonlance is anywhere near the same level as this?  That's  just not happening.  Bleh.<br />A companion volume detailing the writing of  the Chronicles/Legends (oh god, are we going to have to suffer through the  annotated *Legends* if this sells well enough?) could be interesting, but  this is emphatically not; instead, it feels like nothing more than the  latest in a long line of crass TSR cash-ins.  I'd stick with the original,  non-annotated Chronicles, if I were you...	2000-03-08
US	52432257	R35AGI0FV1YZ9L	081956270X	181495342	Tales of Neveryon	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Pretty good!	Very strange.  It's not his greatest work, perhaps but Delany nonetheless is able to effectively subvert the fantasy genre for his own diabolical purposes.  I'm really not sure what else to say--ya just gotta read it.  I  imagine some people will really loathe and despise it, and I have to admit,  at times his various musings can become overly intrusive, but overall a  read that I would characterize as &quot;intriguing.&quot;<br />Oh, and by the  way, not that anyone cares, but the September 30 '99 review of Dhalgren is  mine--I've no idea why I wrote it anonymously.	2000-03-02
US	52432257	R3GG8Z9KZSS70L	0062736752	964623333	Y2K: An Action Plan to Protect Yourself, Your Family, Your Assets,  and Your Community on January 1, 2000	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Bwahahahaha!	Very funny!  I can only imagine how stupid the people who shelled out money for this must be feeling right now.  But Jesus, how braindead would you have to have been?  I mean, REALLY: &quot;staying warm?&quot;   &quot;accessing cash?&quot;  &quot;Coping without utilities and  transportation?&quot;  Come ON!  Do you people ever take it into your heads  to actually THINK about something before mindlessly jumping onto the ol'  bandwagon of mass hysteria?  Good lord, that's amusing.	2000-02-24
US	52432257	RKA5YMYM7RND5	1567230822	42423008	The Hollow Tree and Deep Woods Book	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good lord, is this still in print?	If it is, don't hesitate to buy it--it's brilliant, brilliant stuff.  I don't think I can exactly encapsulate it in a short review, but suffice it to say that as far as children's literature goes, this is more or less the  last word.  What I want to know is, where's HT Nights and Days?  I see the  other two here, but not that one.  Bleh.  Oh well...that's all I have to  say.  Really groovy stuff, this.	2000-02-23
US	52432257	R30W30XSIBAPGE	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	1	13	27	N	N	Western civlization's decline continues...	Let's not mince words: this novel is unreservedly horrible.The fact that many people have given it rave reviews speaks volumesabout how low our standards have dropped.  I read this for a writing class, of all things--otherwise I never would've finished it, believe me.  It started out bad, and so as I read on, I could only hope that it would get better as it went on.  Amazingly, it actually got WORSE,  culminating in an almost surreally ridiculous ending. Still, said ending made me laugh incredulously--it didn't actually make me angry. What DID anger me was the dearth of characters I could care about. Tita was weak and indecisive, but at least I didn't actually HATE her--no indeed, I reserve that hatred for Pedro, who is indeed one of the most unappealing characters I've ever encountered.  He's  weak, he's a bully, and to top it off, he's a rapist.  He might have been  an effective character, but for the fact that we were evidently meant to  consider him a \\"good guy\\".  I really resented the fact that  Esquivel actually expected us to like this loser, but evidently many people  did, scarily enough.  Bleh.  Still, unappealing characters and a goofy  plot aren't all this book has against it.  One of the most obvious problems  is the little bits of recipes, which Esquivel integrates into the story  with all the subtlety of a jackhammer.  And, of course, all of this is ignoring the extremely bland narrative style and the horribly clumsy  transitions (don't even get me STARTED on the oh-so-coy final chapter).  I could say more, but I don't want to.  I'm sick just thinking of this work of literary sludge.  Those who pride themselves on having standards should stay far, far away.	2000-02-14
US	52432257	RUH0X299Z63YY	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	1	6	12	N	N	It makes me angry...	Let's not mince words: this novel is unreservedly horrible.  Iread this for a writing class, of all things--otherwise I neverwould've finished it, believe me. It started out bad, and so as I read on, I could only hope that it would get better.  Amazingly, it actually got WORSE, culminating in an almost surreal ending.  What DID anger me was the dearth of characters I could care about. Tita was weak and indecisive, but at least I didn't actually HATE her--no indeed, I reserve that hatred for Pedro, who is indeed one of the most unappealing characters I've ever encountered. He's weak, he's a bully, and to top it off, he's a rapist. He might have been an effective character, but for the fact that we were evidently meant to consider him a &quot;good guy&quot;. I really resented the fact that Esquivel actually expected us to like this loser, but evidently many people did, scarily enough. Still, unappealing characters and a goofy plot aren't all this book has against it. One of the most obvious problems is the little bits and pieces of recipes, which Esquivel integrates into the story with all the subtlety of a jackhammer. It is, I suppose, possible that a skilled writer could have made this work, but Esquivel, frankly, didn't even come close. And then there are the parts that are just plain stupid: Gertrudis &quot;has rhythm&quot; because she's actually half-black (smirk). &quot;The prostitute managed to gasp out a clue to identifying him. The traitor had a red mole shaped like a spider between his legs.&quot; HAHAHAHAHA! Right...he must have had a pretty damn long name, if gasping out &quot;red mole...spider-shaped...between legs&quot; was quicker than just saying it. And, of course, all of this is ignoring the extremely bland narrative style and the horribly clumsy transitions (don't even get me STARTED on the oh-so-coy final chapter). I could say more, but I don't want to.	2000-02-08
US	52432257	R2HWEWEOKVQPNQ	0460879871	493098356	Complete Plays Christopher Marlowe (Everyman)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	In spite of what the previous reviewer's said...	...this edition contains both the 1604 and 1616 editions of Dr. Faustus.  In all honestly, though, I don't entirely buy the notion that the former should automatically take precedence over the latter.  It's entirely  possible that the additions made to it were in fact Marlowe's own ideas  that were merely added by others.  And in any case, I would have to say  that, as a whole, the 1616 version is more coherent, with a lot of the  threads left hanging in the 1604 cleared up.  More is done with the clowns,  and the character on whom Faustus inflicts horns goes from an anonymous  &quot;knight&quot; to an actual character.  The 1604 does have some things  to be said for it (the bit about Christ's blood streaming in the firmament  has been inexcusably edited out of the 1616, f'rinstance, and there's a  brief scene at the end with the scholars that seems superfluous), but as a  whole I'd go with it rather than the 1604.  If I was going to put on a  production of the play, I'd combine the two as I saw fit.  Okay then.	1999-11-22
US	52432257	R7OXHALSXXKYG	0830816984	807016341	The Creation Hypothesis: Scientific Evidence for an Intelligent Designer	Books	1	13	58	N	N	BWAHAHAHAHA!	Yes indeed...creationist rhetoric is a laugh, innit?  I think what's most humourous (but also most maddening) is the way creationists whine about those who hold different views as being &quot;closed-minded.&quot;  The  thing is, there's no room for debate: creation science is about as  &quot;scientific&quot; as the Flat Earth Society.  In life, there are grey  areas, in which there is room for opposing viewpoints and in which it's  impossible to say who's &quot;right&quot; and who's &quot;wrong.&quot;   This is not one of them.  Creationists are wrong, period.  I must say, it's  difficult not to employ ad hominem attacks here--they're just so  unbelievably DUMB, clinging to this whacko jacko belief system in the face  of a hundred years worth of non-disproven science (not to be confused with  the creationist version of &quot;science&quot;).  This book pretty much  trots out the usual creationist rhetoric--you know, the standard twisted  facts, half-truths, and outright lies.  A bit of a laugh, I suppose, but if  you take it seriously you are, not to put too fine a point on it,  incredibly stupid.	1999-11-10
US	52432257	R1MGS2NS0IEZHL	0399504206	142813637	Amphigorey Too	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Gorey's a scary guy...	Even the most seemingly innocuous tale becomes bizarre and sinister in his hands, thanks to his macabre, claustrophobic writing style.  I don't remember which stories are in which amphigorey specifically, but favourites  include The Evil Garden, The Epileptic Bicycle, The Gashleycrumb (sp?)  Tinies, and of course the Wuggly Ump.  Oh, and the one where the guy  invites all his guests up to see his...sofa?  And then it ends with him  &quot;turning it on&quot; and them being locked in the room...shudder.  Not  for the faint of heart, but brilliant in the extreme.  Don't miss it.	1999-11-03
US	52432257	R21GV1GCDHQNEK	0786914181	333113678	SPINE OF THE WORLD, THE (Forgotten Realms: Paths of Darkness)	Books	1	6	24	N	N	What do you expect?	Salvatore is not a talented author.  He has NEVER been a talented author.  The original Icewind Dale trilogy does have a certain amateurish charm, but  the man's style is not one that bares close inspection.  Yes, at one point  I did enjoy the minutely choreographed battle scenes.  And yes, I am no  longer ten years old.  Currently, I prefer novels that emphasize  interesting characters and compelling stories.  Unfortunately, these are  very definitely ol' R.A.'s weakness.  <br />Very definitely to be missed.	1999-11-01
US	52432257	R3L857IYHXFMUV	1567511546	9253537	The Habits of Highly Deceptive Media: Decoding Spin and Lies in Mainstream News	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Was that last review meant to be...sarcasm?	Honestly--I almost (almost) feel embarrassed for people like that.  I'm very bad at math; therefore, I would never attempt to dazzle people with my  mad calculus skillz.  It just stands to reason.  So why to people feel  that, despite not being very bright, they're qualified to wield sarcasm?   It's utterly beyond me.<br />Um...anyway.  It's good to see books like this.   A refreshing breath of fresh air in the morass of conservatism we are  currently slogging through.  I recommend it highly.	1999-10-26
US	52432257	R2BWQ71PMSBCAG	0836213114	456201013	Mallard Fillmore...on the Stump	Books	1	8	31	N	N	Hilariously bad.	It's excusable that Tinsley can't draw.  It's excusable that his opinions are based on his being laughably misinformed and twisting logic beyond any  recognition.  What's inexcusable is that it's just not funny.  His efforts  at making humourous points invariably revolve around A. Having the duck  make allegedly wry and amusing comments, and B. Drawing the stock  &quot;liberal&quot; character jumping up and down in rage and making  nonsensical statements.  Um...terribly clever, Bruce.  I think newspapers  embrace it because there isn't much in the way of right-wing political  humour--oddly, given how ridiculously conservative the vast majority of  media is, no political cartoon even comes close to Doonesbury in terms of  popularity.  Just because it's the only one doesn't mean it's good, though.   Always remember that.<br />Seriously: you know what I'd like to see?  A  deathmatch between Sparky the Wonder Penguin and Mallard Fillmore.  And  upon defeating ol' Mallard, Sparky would hack off his head, hold it up to  the crowd, and shout, &quot;This is the head of a traitor!&quot;  Man, that  would rock.	1999-10-26
US	52432257	R2B0HIECKBGDP3	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	2	4	21	N	N	not very good.	Hmm!  Looks like whoever was writing the code for this page forgot to add the tag to end the italics after &quot;IP&quot;!  I'd do it here, but I know HTML doesn't show up in these reviews, so I guess I'll have to resign  myself to it.  Anyway, this really isn't a very good book.  I mean, it has  some good information, but it is kinda smug.  I also really, really hate  the intelligence-insulting &quot;translations&quot; of British phrases.   Hello!  Even if, unlike me, you're not a devoted anglophile, these should  not give you to much trouble.  Gah...<br />One specific thing that bothered me  was John Inman's disingenuous claims that his character wasn't meant to be  gay.  I mean really.  Even if there weren't numerous blindingly obvious  admonitions to such in many, many episodes, that woudl just be completely  untrue.  Come on, people.  What is this, retrospective homophobia?  Get  real.  Um...that's all.	1999-10-16
US	52432257	R2S1FYJ3UUDIDF	0451452313	607805563	Better than Life (Red Dwarf)	Books	2	1	6	N	N	The only really good RD novel is the first one.	This has a few moments, but not too many, frankly.  Still, it's better than the horrible Last Human.  I suppose I would have to say that Backwards is somewhat better, though.  Oh well.	1999-10-16
US	52432257	R32ZWEGUGWDEPF	0345352424	138922667	The Company Man	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Seven years of searching?	Jeez...I went to an out-of-print bookstore (after reading Ferman's Devils/Boddekker's Demons) and found it in five minutes.  While it was probably worth that much time invested, I don't know about seven years.   The Company Man is a fairly enjoyable novel, but hardly a masterwork.  A  bit too much of the &quot;aha, you may have THOUGHT X character was dead,  but...&quot; type plot twists for me.  Also, I have to admit, I never  really warmed to Birch as a character--I mean, I suppose he sort of redeems  himself, but...well.  The ending was a bit depressing too--I mean, sure he  gets the girl and escapes and everything, but the world is still a horrible  corporate nightmare; nothing's even slightly different.  Also...why would  Astradyne just let an ex-agent who rebelled against them go on his merry  way?  Isn't it inevitable that he's going to be the target of numerous  assassination attempts, until one of them finally succeeds?  A bit  implausible all around; nonetheless a halfway decent read.	1999-10-15
US	52432257	R3SL6S00UDVGGY	0399143998	520752026	Light My Fire: My Life With the Doors	Books	2	43	55	N	N	Kinda nasty...	Manzarek is enthusiastic, and this enthusiasm is sometimes catching.  However, it really can't overcome the noxious combination of arrogance and mean-spiritedness that run throughout the book.  The Doors--according to  Manzarek--were the most ground-breaking, mind-blowing band ever, and  anybody who doesn't like them unreservedly is to be viewed with utter  scorn.  And then there are his vicious little attacks on various people:  Oliver Stone (whose sin, it seems, was portraying the Doors as men rather  than gods), Andy Warhol (more talent than you ever had, Ray), and, perhaps  most tellingly, John Densmore (I'm temted to attribute this to a dislike of  Densmore's Riders on the Storm, but that seems a bit too simplistic, given  the level of meanness on display here--who knows, really?).  This last one  really disturbs me quite a bit: he tries to conceal it most of the time,  but his contempt for the Doors' drummer is all-too-obvious.  The best bit  in this manner is a scene that has no significance in terms of the rest of  the book, but instead serves to say, in essence, &quot;Jim never liked you  anyway&quot;.  Nasty stuff.  His respect for Morrison is obviously real,  but it's equally obvious that he is, shall we say, whitewashing certain  aspects of the singer (and the band in general, of course).  A full studio  version of Celebration of the Lizard was never recorded because &quot;it  wasn't ready to be set down,&quot; or something to that effect--not, I  emphasize, because Jim was never sober enough to go through the whole  thing. Mm hm--following on that note, it's incredible how he glosses over  much of the band's career--The Doors and Strange Days receive loads of  detail; Waiting for the Sun through L.A. Woman receive almost none.  Also  interesting to note is the fact that he somehow &quot;forgets&quot; to even  mention in passing the two albums that the band recorded after Morrison's  death--evidently he can't rationalize this, so he chooses to ignore it.Peachy!  All in all, Manzarek isn't a bad writer, and this could have been  a truly brilliant memoire, but the large amounts of bile and revisionist  history get in the way.  Densmore's account had a ring of honesty and truth  to it: this emphatically does not.	1999-10-14
US	52432257	R3R9FWG4CMOMV1	0375706682	433261893	Dhalgren	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lanya dropped out of my alma mater, you know.	When I first read Dhalgren, at the tender age of nineteen, I was blown away.  I wasn't a particularly ambitious reader at the time, but, due to the SF label (applied due to Delany's prior record, even though it's not really science fiction), I was lured in by this massive, intellectually challenging tome, and I was absolutely taken with it.  Never having come face-to-face with such an intellect, my critical faculties weren't really fully in gear.  Coming back to the novel nine years later--hopefully at least a BIT less callow!--I think I am better able to understand and appreciate what Delany does well while at the same time remaining keenly aware of his failings.    The basic premise is irresistible, and it's more or less borne out by the book iteslf.  The portrait of a society come loose from its moorings (one that has, essentially, lost its historical context) and the people who live therein is very finely-drawn.  From the Richards family's hysterical efforts to retain a no-longer-operative order, to the Scorpions' somewhat aimless quasi-gang anomie, to Roger Calkins' attempts at experimenting with social order by setting up his own little fiefdom, to the defiantly utopian menage à trois at the center of the novel, very few stones are left unturned in this regard.  I think it bears comparisons to Pynchon's recent Against the Day, which depicts a similar kind of societal breakdown, albeit without the city metaphor.    Furthermore, Delany is really smart in terms of race, sexuality, and gender, and the ways in which such concepts become warped and distorted when the society propping them up is abruptly no longer in a position to do any such thing.  The gangbang scene in the last section is more profound than a gangbang scene has any right to be.    ALL THAT SAID: this is far from a perfect novel, and most of that has to do with the central character, the nameless Kid, who just isn't a very compelling or likable guy.  One gets the strong impression that he represents a kind of adolescent wish fulfillment (\\"poet, lover, and adventurer\\"), especially as regards his prodigious sexual exploits.  Many of the secondary characters--eg, Tak, Bunny, Nightmare--are interesting and sympathetic, but they are not the focus of the novel.  Kid is, and this gets old after a while.  I can't tell you how cathartic I found the section in which fellow poet Frank absolutely tears his poetry apart.  And I don't think that such catharsis was Delany's intention.    Furthermore, the aforementioned sex is so omnipresent that it becomes exhausting.  Kid's stamina is well beyond that of any human to ever have walked the earth; this may go along with the utopian aspect of the novel, but it also kinda had the effect of making me want to never have sex again, which I can't imagine was the point.  His primary partners, Lanya and Denny, are less annoying than he himself is, but they aren't all that interesting either, and I found that one of the novel's central ideas--that a free'n'easy relationship like this can rise above, transcend, and in some way redeem all the chaos around it--was undermined by my general indifference.    Delany is a great writer.  There's no denying that much.  I think \\"to wound the autumnal city\\" surely deserves to go down with \\"a screaming comes across the sky\\" as one of the all-time great opening lines.  But I don't know, at this point in his career, that he was necessarily capable of adequately controlling that gift.  There are numerous passages that, while technically impressive, amount to what it might be fair, given the novel's preoccupations, to describe as verbal masturbation. I won't lie to you: it gets old after a certain point, especially in the somewhat gimmicky (if often effective) last section.    But I don't want to get too down on the novel.  If it seems like I am, that's probably just because it's easier to criticize than to praise.  There is no denying that it stays with you; in places it is luminous, Delany's indulgences aside--and how many really ambitious novels are devoid of self-indulgence?  It's no Gravity's Rainbow (which may however be an unfair comparison); still, I think it deserves to go down as one of the better products of seventies postmodern counterculture.	1999-10-01
US	52432257	R2JD3T8CDU2VCN	0679736662	125782880	The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch	Books	3	10	15	N	N	I really do love PKD...	...but I honestly don't think this is one of his stronger works.  In all truth, a lot of the surreal, subjective- reality business here felt almost like a parody of Dick's usual territory. (&quot;Here are some characters.   Their reality keeps shifting, and they never know what is and is not true.   Watch them bumble around confusedly&quot;).   It seemed kinda...routine.   Mind you, an average PKD novel is still brilliant by anyone else's  standards, but compared to opuses like Do Androids Dream... and UBIK, I  feel The Three Stigmata is a bit lacking.	1999-10-01
US	52432257	R2FWPQNXWC1X7A	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	3	6	9	N	N	perfectperfectperfect...and then it all comes apart.	Classic Philip K. Dick through and through...and then you get to the ending.  I suppose I've probably read a dozen or so PKD novels, and I must say none had a weaker, more anti-climactical ending than this.  I must say,  it really did feel like a cop-out.  The majority of the novel is wonderful,  but if Dick had just spent a little more time crafting a proper conclusion,  the book as a whole would have been much, much better.  I suppose my  favourite PKD to date is probably The Game-Players of Titan...or maybe Now  Wait for Last Year...or UBIK...oh, forget it.  I can't decide.  Just read  'em all, but you'd probably be best-advised not to start with Flow My  Tears.	1999-10-01
US	52432257	R2A18J5UGBV9MG	0812509242	667775993	Heartfire (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 5)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fairly entertaining...	...but not really very substantial.  I suppose it's something of a stop-gap novel, really, to keep us happy until the next *real* Alvin Maker book comes along.  I read it fast and voraciously, but there wasn't really  that much to it, it seems to me--the high point, I think, has to be the  portrayal of Honore de Balzac; that aspect of the novel was highly  memorable indeed.<br />Also, now that I've thought about it after having read  a previous review, I have to admit that Card's notion of puritanism as a  good thing if only a few fanatics didn't go overboard with it strikes me as  amazingly wrong-headed.  *shrugs*  Nonetheless.  I've been with the series  from the beginning, and I don't intend to stop now.  I just hope the next  (final?) book has a bit more substance--I'd really hate to see Card pull  another Children of the Mind on us.	1999-09-22
US	52432257	R9GPV8KH7H4R2	0836218051	591496462	The Essential Calvin and Hobbes: a Calvin and Hobbes Treasury	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What more do you want?	Let's face it: nothing negative can be said about Calvin and Hobbes.  It's closer to perfect than any other comic strip in the known multiverse.  I can't even count the number of times I've poured through these collections;  I must have literally hundreds of strips eternally locked in my brain.  If  you don't love Watterson's work, there is something very, very wrong with  you.  Thank you.	1999-09-20
US	52432257	R35XGYEHV92TND	0740700030	523015630	Dilbert Gives You The Business	Books	1	4	8	N	N	I find myself becoming angry...	You know, I used to really enjoy Dilbert, and still do to some extent, but lately I find myself more and more disgusted with the way Scott Adams is willing to whore out his creation to absolutely ANYONE if the price is  right.  Case in point: this book.  It contains absolutely NOTHING new.  It  is nothing more than yet another shameless cash-in that nobody should even  consider purchasing.	1999-09-14
US	52432257	R1G2PYASCDG03Z	0061051586	545755908	Carpe Jugulum: A Novel of Discworld	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Oh no...	I read this a while ago when it came out in the UK.  After the severe mediocrity of The Last Continent, I was really hoping this would represent a return to form for the Discworld series.  Alas, this hope has been  dashed...<br />Probably the worst aspect of this novel (aside from the almost  total lack of anything really funny) is the number of utterly irrelevant  side plots.  The pixes, for instance.  They appear briefly, and they  do...absolutely nothing significant.  It's bizarre: it seems as if  Pratchett just forgot about them or got bored with them (they really aren't  very interesting) and decided to just phase them out.  The phoenix is  similar--it may play a pivotal, if small, role in the novel's climax, but  it wasn't nearly built up enough throughout the story.  One aspect I did  like was the bits with Mightily Oats and Granny Weatherwax, but those  aren't enough to redeem the novel as a whole.  As with The Last Continent,  I really had to struggle to get all the way through it.  Man, a little  while ago Pratchett was just throwing out classics right and left--Soul  Music, Interesting Times, Hogfather--and now this.  I've read every  Discworld novel, and I would say that this and TLC, along with Maskerade,  definitely represent the series's nadir.  Ah well...I suppose I'll still  read The Fifth Elephant &lt;shudders at horrific pun&gt;--the plot seems  somewhat promising.  Still, if that's not a stunning comeback, it seems  likely that I'll lose all hope...	1999-09-11
US	52432257	R3UVXC6I8E9H1T	0553286390	591086816	Dragon Wing (The Death Gate Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ah, yes...	Not that Tolkien was a bad writer, but his influence, I feel, was a very bad thing.  Before he rose to fame, you had Michael Moorcock, you had Fritz Leiber, you had whatsisface (the Conan guy)--all of them wrote epic  fantasy, and none of their works had much in common.  AFTER Tolkien came to  power--well, you have Terry Brooks, Raymond Feist, Tad Williams, David  Eddings, Robert Jordan, ad nauseum, all writing epic fantasy that bares a  striking resemblance to ol' JRR.  So now not virtually every book in the  genre supersaturated in Tolkienisms, which is all very well for some, I  suppose--but pity those of us who thirst for some *original* fantasy in the  epic tradition.  <br />That's what's so great about the Deathgate Cycle: it's  epic fantasy, and it owes absolutely nothing to Tolkien beyond the elves  and dwarves.  It's long, but not bloated--no verbose Homeresque  descriptions--and the worlds are stunningly original and  well-thought-out--more than any others since, dare I say it, Tolkien.  The  Lord of the Rings is really epic poetry in novel form, and thus it follows  that the characters fit rather neatly into simple archetypes--not so here;  W&amp;H's characters are people, and it's oh-so-refreshing.  Battle scenes  are thankfully sparse, and, thank the gods, none of them are choreographed  in excrutiating, Salvatore-like detail.  In all, the series is truly  amazing.<br />Unfortunately, this, it would seem, was it--I don't know if the  effort involved in writing these seven books caused them to burn out or  what, but Weis and Hickman have produced nothing of note since.  Sigh...oh  well...be sure to check out the equally-gripping Rose of the Prophet if you  dig this, and if you're up for it, hell, go ahead and read the  good-if-not-great Darksword trilogy, and the duo's appealingly raw and  unpolished Dragonlance novels.  That's all I have to say.	1999-05-10
US	52432257	R1EO00V1P1YILF	0060977337	407534724	Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American	Books	3	4	5	N	N	not great, good	I'm sort of surprised: everyone seems to have either loved this book or hated it, when in reality it really shouldn't elicit such strong emotions.  I'm a liberal to the core, and thus I agree with most of what Moores says,  but sometimes, well--the chapter on Germany was just scary.  You get the  vague impression as you're reading it that it must be satire--there is no  WAY this guy can be serious.  And yet...he is.  There's just no denying it.   The chapter on rioting was similar in nature, although I did appreciate  the instructions on how to illegally immigrate, which would no doubt have  rubbed many the wrong way.  Beyond the obvious firebranding nature of the  aforementioned chapters, there's some pretty hilarious material here;  unfortunately, there's also some excruciatingly tedious stuff.  Moore's  heart is in the right place, but he's just not a particularly good  satirist.  What else can I say?  It's worth reading, but it's not as great  as I had hoped it would be.	1999-05-06
US	52432257	R38NLNRRZLE4DN	0553576224	342093633	Boddekker's Demons	Books	4	2	2	N	N	good, but gads is it grim...	Well, this was sort of unexpected.  Ferman's Devils was a very fun, light read, despite the ever-present darker elements.  This second tome more or less cuts out the &quot;fun, light&quot; bit, in favour of expanding on  said darker elements.  You may have noticed that, despite the gang's  alleged brutality, you never actually see them kill anyone.  Here, you see  them make a whole lot of people die.  In addition to that, the company  comes across as much more evil, and Boddekker's ladylove is much more cold,  cynical, and generally repulsive.  It's still a good read, but it's  certainly a shock.	1999-05-06
US	52432257	RXRIUM10M1AXC	0849558476	812328864	Men Like Gods	Books	4	18	20	N	N	a bit of a revelation...	If all you've read of Wells is The Invisible Man, The Time Machine, The War of the Worlds, and The Island of Dr. Moreau, you're not getting the full story.  This novel--writen some twenty-five years after the  aforementioned works--shows the author's more philosophical side; there's  less of the straight SF romance aspect to it; it's also, in my estimation,  a considerably more gripping read.  <br />In short, it's about a group of  people who are inadvertantly drawn into an alternate dimension, which turns  out to be a paradisiacal version of Earth thousands of years in ahead of  contemporary society.  There's some action involved, but it's more a book  of moral philosophy than anything else, as it explores issues of what  humanity should be and be striving for.  I liked it a lot, and you should  try to find a copy and read it.	1999-05-01
US	52432257	R2YE2PXDSO6AIP	0140422072	965481570	The Faerie Queene	Books	3	13	22	N	N	well...	I'm of two minds here: on the one hand, you've got to admire Spenser's skillz--after all, we're talkin' thousands of nine-line cantos, eight lines in iambic pentameter and one in iambic hexameter, with a strict AC BD rhyme  scheme.  That must've taken some doing.<br />On the other hand...I can't say  I've really enjoyed reading it particularly.  Spenser himself admits that  the only reason he even wrote the thing in story form was to appeal to a  wider audience; I think he might've done better to stick to straight moral  philosophy.  The allegory really gets in the way of telling a good story,  in my opinion.  Plus, and I know I sound like a complete cultural  philistine when I say this, the archaic language just annoys the hell out  of me.  <br />Some people love this poem to death, I know.  Not me, however.	1999-04-21
US	52432257	R1C0MWEIC806DN	0836213114	456201013	Mallard Fillmore...on the Stump	Books	1	4	22	N	N	pathetic...	Heh...I'm not even going to waste my time writing a long review.  Let's just say that if this is the best political &quot;humour&quot; conservatives can muster, they are in serious trouble.  Laughable.	1999-04-13
US	52432257	R2Z478KW3V949B	1883398177	366836198	River of Mirrors: The Fantastic Art of Judson Huss	Books	5	2	2	N	N	excellent	Huss is a briliant artist.  Nearly all the paintings here in are highly evocative, and just scream to be examined at length.  The way he combines contemporary fantasy art with classical styles and themes is just  marvelous.  Check it out.	1999-04-07
US	52432257	R3AFQA7PMMEPTX	0836226941	621838641	FoxTrot Beyond a Doubt	Books	2	3	25	N	N	oh, please...	Salvation!  After almost giving up hope, I finally find a review that recognizes the sheer mediocrity of this entire venture.  I won't deny taking a certain guilty pleasure in reading FT, but viewed objectively  they're fairly appalling.  I mean, my God, it's the exact same repetitive  jokes day after day after day after day after day!  Every single one of  Amend's characters exactly fits into a rigid stereotype from which he or  she never, ever, deviates in the slightest.  &quot;I say, I wonder what  those lovable Foxtrot rascals are up to today!  My word, it looks like the  small, hyperactive child is equating his vacuous valley girl sister to a  repulsive beast!  Well, I declare!  What a strikingly original development!   What will that genius Amend think of next?&quot;  How come great comic  strips like Calvin and Hobbes die and things like Foxtrot drag their  decaying corpses onwards 'til the end of time?	1999-04-06
US	52432257	R1HCL545YWXM1S	0711930007	632592904	Morrissey & Marr: The Severed Alliance	Books	5	12	13	N	N	brilliant	This is rightly considered one of the greatest rock biographies ever.  I must say, I'm stunned that Rogan was able to find details as miniscule as those here.  A completely readable book, the author even manages to make  the band members' childhoods and pre-band days seem interesting, something  that few rock biographers are able to do--I tend to just skip over the  first few chapters in such books.  Not here though--everything in The  Severed Alliance is fascinating through and through, presenting a fair and  balanced view of the band which by no means justifies Morrissey's savage  animosity towards Rogan based on its content.  A must-read for Smiths fans,  as well as anyone contemplating writing a book about a band--this is the  way to do it, guys.	1999-03-06
US	52432257	R3BU2HC1HHROI	0805046410	745893946	Last Gang in Town: The Story and Myth of the Clash	Books	2	11	11	N	N	hmm...	This is a useful book when it sticks to the facts.  Unfortunately, Gray's attitude seems smug and superior.  He seems to judge the merit of The Clash's music almost entirely based on whether or not he personally thinks  the political messages evinced therein are valid.  As the Kirkus review  astutely notes, the Clash was four guys in their twenties; it was not a  bloody political action committee.  To be honest, Gray's sniping comes  across as little more than a spiteful attempt to drag a talented band  through the mud.  The book is useful inasmuch it is, as far as I know, the  only Clash biography, but the author's approach nearly ruins it.	1999-02-25
US	52432257	R3FSBK3RF08NV4	1560763558	22687857	Heart of Midnight (Ravenloft)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	not half bad...	Hmph.  Ravenloft books tend to be sorta pointless exercises because they're not really HORROR; they're just fantasy with werewolves and vampires. This at least tries.  It can be somewhat tedious, but all in all  it actually works as horror, to an extent.  And the ending's great.	1999-02-20
US	52432257	R4OG4TOO00U9	0253203619	109265461	Penrod (Library of Indiana Classics)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	great...	How can romantic comedies about ADULTS be based on the Penrod novels?!?  It just doesn't make any sense.  If they really are, they must take extreme liberties with the plot.  Anyway, Penrod, along with the sequels Penrod and  Sam and the tragically out-of-print Penrod Jashber is a wonderful novel,  which captures childhood better than anything else out there, along with,  perhaps, Herman Wouk's The City Boy.  Read it.	1999-02-16
US	52432257	R1B2LRETBWXFQB	0312850476	882312732	Maps in a Mirror: The Short Fiction of Orson Scott Card	Books	5	12	14	N	N	OSC completists rejoice!	Card's previously un-anthologized fiction, all in one volume.  A pretty sweet deal if I do say so, especially given the inclusion of some insightful new essays by the author and background information on each  story.  It's too bad that it's out of print; if you see a copy don't  hesitate--snap it up!  Sure it's expensive, but it's worth it.	1999-02-15
US	52432257	R38IN72FOHMTRX	0451156161	344110456	Beyond This Horizon	Books	3	0	4	N	N	???	I found the first two-thirds of this novel to be an engaging, if quaintly outdated, read, but Heinlein really lost me with the last hundred pages, in which he goes off into a bizarre philosophical discourse which has  absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the story.  Very peculiar...	1999-02-15
US	52432257	R3RVDVX6UZG8L8	0849933943	578730978	The New World Order	Books	1	26	46	N	N	help...	Pat Robertson is arguably the most evil public figure in America today.  You might want to read his books just to form a better understanding of the enemy (in the same sense that you might want to read Mein Kampf), but that  people take this man seriously is very, very frightening to me.	1999-02-15
US	52432257	RWEKWPC2M9HT2	0836291867	770227669	Far Side Assortment	Books	1	3	4	N	N	a tad PRICEY, perhaps...?	I like the Far Side, but I refuse to pay 417 dollars for it.  What IS this?!?	1999-02-15
US	52432257	R1X16SOE3XZ4YP	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	3	1	5	N	N	the ideas are great; the execution is lacking	Okay, I won't deny that Bester was absolutely overflowing with incredible ideas (second, perhaps, only to Philip K. Dick), but the implementation here is not as good as it should be.  The book has kind of a choppy feel to  it, as if Bester was incapable of implementing his ideas while retaining a  smooth sense of narrative.  This is occasionally jaw-dropping, but the  presentation hurts it a bit, I think.  I would recommend you pick up  Virtual Realities instead--Bester is at his best (haha) when his genius is  presented in small-but-powerful explosions than when he tries to stretch it  over an entire novel.	1999-02-15
US	52432257	R1V5Y66VKAD159	0879304944	733802361	All Music Guide to Rock 2nd Edition (Amg All Music Guide Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Extremely useful...	This is an extremely useful, even-handed volume.  It rarely falls into the trap of having reviewers who hate a particular artists' output reviewing said artist, thankfully (although you do occasionally see a reviewer just  skipping over albums he/she considers insignificant.  Also, you  occasionally see amazing losses in objectivity (particularly the Beatles  entry, in which absolutely EVERYTHING gets the full five stars).   Inevitably, there are a few notable omissions, but less so than most books  of this type.  I got this a year of so ago, and I use it constantly.   Invaluable; I just hope they release a second edition (fixing small  mistakes, adding glossed-over artists and new music) before too long.   Cool.	1999-02-14
US	52432257	RR7YWE3RKDPIG	1578590612	32534198	Musichound Rock: The Essential Album Guide	Books	2	12	17	N	N	none too good, I fear...	This was the first album-review book I bought, and as such I had no basis for comparison, but looking back I have to admit, it's really pretty awful.  Instead of reviewing an artist's discography album by album, we instead  have scattershot recommendations of a few albums (perplexingly glossing  over a group's best work at times), and then a section citing albums the  reviewer considers &quot;bad&quot;--interestingly, all artists in this  world seem to have exactly one or two albums that are &quot;bad&quot;, and  very often perfectly good albums are condemned.  Also, there's the  unfortunate supercilious dismissal of artists whom the reviewer personally  has something against.  And of course omissions abound.  <br />I'll admit I  got SOME useful information out of this, but you can to SO much better.   Get the AMG Guide to Rock instead; it's a MUCH better book.	1999-02-14
US	52432257	R7PO0U2V8134I	0451456181	786892474	Hung Out (Mag Force)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	fun, but not very good...	I Dunno...this is sort of *enjoyable*, but even as you're enjoying it, you feel sort of guilty, because objectively you know that this is not particularly good stuff.  You certainly can't compare it to Weis's earlier  work with Hickman or on her own.  It may be worth blowing some time  on--it's fun in it's own right--but I wish Weis would stop mucking about  and get back to writing *good* fiction.	1999-01-26
US	52432257	R14EGYU7K9JB7Y	0446387878	699163740	A Yellow Raft in Blue Water	Books	2	0	2	N	N	None too fun...	Apparently, I'm not the only person who was forced to read this for an English class.  It wasn't terrible, but it wasn't all that great, either.  It would have been much better if it had ended after the second  section--you had a decent enough sense of closure there.  But no, it has to  go into this utterly irrelevant and pointless third part.  Not a great  read, I feel.  Sorry, Mr. McD.	1999-01-25
US	52432257	RUMA0YPAWO6SN	044022330X	11758110	Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot And Other Observations	Books	4	3	4	N	N	good...	I find it utterly hilarious that there are people who hate this book based on their political views.  Um, guys, I would hope you knew exactly what you were getting into when you brought it--it's left-wing political humour:  hilarious for liberals, obnoxious for conservatives.  If it offended you,  that's really your own fault.<br />Personally, I found it quite funny indeed.   Let's face it: there is far more vicious and mean-spirited right-wing  rhetoric out there than left--time for a bit of payback, eh?<br />Still, it's  not a perfect book--it can become ponderous in spots, particularly the  fairly insufferable series of chapters regarding the author's alleged  conflict with his assistant.  A bit dated by now, but still good readin'.	1999-01-22
US	52432257	RMR800U8650I8	044124193X	154091602	Flying Dutch	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good...	I found this to be one of Holt's better novels.  He doesn't give in to the temptation to be totally flippant, as he sometimes does in his later novels; out of the three published in the U.S., I think this is definitely  the best.  You still might want to look into importing some of his other  books (he's really quite prolific).	1999-01-22
US	52432257	R3W3052W3WPOQB	055357812X	543821370	Legacy of the Darksword	Books	1	12	13	N	N	The Ultimate Sell-Out	Any self-respecting fan of the Darksword Trilogy will be doing themselves a grave disservice by reading this.  They take the series's ending--which actually *meant* something--and render it all useless!  It's really just  this side of sacrelige; it's as if Shakespeare wrote a sequel to King Lear  in which it turns out that Lear and Cordelia aren't *really* dead after  all--it completely destroys any dramatic impact the original might have  had.  Ever since I've read this book I've been trying to disassociate it  from the original series in my mind; it's actually not all that hard, given  the noticable drop in quality since the original--it feels like it was  written by an entirely different author.	1999-01-20
US	52432257	RX7I2RGXMZCEF	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yup...	This is a very good novel (I feel more than a little redundant saying that).  It's not my favourite work of Card's--I prefer the Homecoming series--but it is quite good.  The few people who gave it negative reviews  must be suffering from some sort of bizarre brain deficiency.	1999-01-20
US	52432257	R22ESZCALJJRZC	0441469299	324354181	Lady Slings the Booze	Books	1	6	35	N	N	To what levels has Robinson stooped?	Hmm...while I do enjoy the Callahan's series for the most part, this book just annoyed me. I really don't want into a moral argument over prostitution, but Robinson is most certainly deluding himself if he thinks  that Lady Sally's Place is an even remotely conceivable idea.  All right,  so Callahan's isn't a very realistic concept either: but at least that's  dealing with a kind of mature, reasonable fantasy--the concept of Lady  Sally's reads ludicrously like an adolescent fantasy: Get laid whenever you  so desire!  Indulging any fantasy you can imagine!  And all at one low,  monthly rate!  It's just too idiotic to be taken seriously.  <br />And that  air of absurdity permeates the entire book.  *Why* does a hooker almost  instantly fall deeply and unconditionally in love with our hardboiled hero?   We never get a solid answer to that extremely valid question, just the  vague suggestion that it's because she's telepathic.  Frankly, I found  their romance enormously unappealing.<br />And the overall plot itself...how  to put it?  Okay, it's stupid.  Stupid and utterly implausible.  It's the  usual absurd quasi-SF thing, but at least in most of the books in the  series it's relegated to the last few chapters; as a whole, the book is a  mishmash of bad ideas and ill-conceived plot devices.<br />I don't know what  could have brought about this appalling error of judgment and taste in  Robinson; I've enjoyed the Callahan's books written since.  I've not read  the other Lady Sally's book, but if it's at all like this I shudder to  imagine it.  <br />Anyway, this possesses very little of the warmth and fun  that make the Callahan's series so damned endearing.  Avoid it like the  plague.	1999-01-19
US	52432257	RW7TSFFKB8099	0881843520	138403429	Time Out of Joint	Books	3	0	3	N	N	hmm...	The biggest problem with this book is that the themes that Dick would later use are presented far too neatly. When you finish most Dick novels, you're never quite sure what is and what isn't. Here, the seemingly inexplicable events are all neatly tied up at the end, which rather takes away from the richness. It's still Dick, though, and thus it's still quite good.<br />Addendum: I have no idea why I gave this four stars.  It's just not that good.  Insufficient claustrophobic paranoia for my personal taste.  A sign of things to come, but not brilliant on its own.  I dig the cover of the new Vintage edition, though.  When were all these books reprinted?	1998-12-12
US	52432257	R3DVYZWVOG3E5	0679736662	125782880	The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch	Books	4	1	3	N	N	hmm...	I have to admit, this is not my favorite Dick novel.  It deals with a familiar theme--the nature of reality--but here it seems so overdone as to be almost a parody.  It's not bad, but it didn't grip me as much as most.   You gotta love the &quot;Barbie and Ken&quot; scenes, though...	1998-12-12
US	52432257	R3O9LJPKSDSOKN	0836267524	152419881	The Bundled Doonesbury With Cd-Rom	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Wowee!	This is AMAZING!!!  The book's nice enough in itself, but the real reason why you absolutely have to buy this if you're at all into Doonesbury is the CD-ROM.  We're talkin' every single strip from the beginning 'til '95!  As  you may know, it's virtually impossible to assemble a complete collection  otherwise--there are jillions of books, nearly all of them out of print,  and if you stick with the larger anthologies you'll find that many key  strips are quite absent.  Quite a must-buy, this is...	1998-11-30
US	52432257	R2DFV0JHMMLZUC	0553563319	77811210	GHOST LEGION (Star of the Guardians, Vol 4)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Hmmm...	Hmmm...I don't think much of this.  In my opinion, book III wrapped things up quite nicely; this seems more like an afterthought than anything else.  It wasn't Weis's greatest work ever, but it was pretty good.  This last  book seems highly unnecessary to me.  And I really thought that bringing  back Derek Sagan was not a good idea; the way he ended up after book III  was quite appropriate.  Death is just so predictable and boring an end for  him.  You can safely stay away from this.	1998-11-18
US	52432257	RKVIZQHPSA9F0	0880381752	198766600	Dragons of Spring Dawning (Dragonlance Chronicles, Vol. 3)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Better than Tolkien by a long shot.	Let's just make a statement here: The Dragonlance Chronicles are BETTER than The Lord of the Rings.  For some unknown reason, everyone seems to have put Tolkien's works on a platform and declared them untouchable.  Yes,  the Chronicles do take elements from Tolkien.  But this is simply a better  story; the characters are much more well-realized, and the series as a  whole is just plain more compelling.  And of course, Michael Williams's  splendid poetry only helps matters.	1998-11-18
US	52432257	R2AIG5XTBDSAW1	0553295411	618387900	Fire Sea (The Death Gate Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Eek!	This book is extraordinarily grim--the other books in the series have dark elements, but this is by far the most uncompromisingly bleak.  However, that doesn't make it any less of a book--Abaraach, as with all of the  septet's worlds, is vivdly imagined, and the interaction between Haplo and  Alfred is very well-done and interesting.	1998-11-18
US	52432257	R1CAY2INWYCUK6	0553276387	154417110	The Will of the Wanderer (Rose of the Prophet, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	YES!!!!!!!	This series is very wonderful indeed.  Truly vivid characters (including one who's bisexual--how often do you see THAT in a work of fantasy?), a highly cool world, and the kind of story that you absolutely MUST read from  start to finish.  Can't really recommend it highly enough...	1998-11-18
US	52432257	R3HOYOISR5GULX	0553281437	46791929	The Prophet of Akhran (Rose of the Prophet, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Greatness...	Gotta tell ya, this is an excellent series; I might like it even more than the Deathgate Cycle, if that's possible.  Quite brilliant in all aspects; start reading and you can't stop, so be sure when you begin the first book  you have the next two handy; you may go insane if you don't have instant  access to all three.	1998-11-18
US	52432257	R2UJ5LS8PJLIRR	0553561405	860381086	Serpent Mage (The Death Gate Cycle, Vol 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	YES!!!	Extremely wonderful, as with the entire series.  We get to see more of Alfred here, which is good; predictably, Chelestra is just as well-conceived and fascinating as Arianus, Pryan, and Abaraach.  You MUST  read this series!	1998-11-18
US	52432257	R3KP0FVCHKBJCO	0061050482	199937184	The Last Continent	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not his best...	This isn't awful--I found myself getting into it a bit more as I read on--but it isn't his best effort.  The plot is very underdeveloped and things are never quite adequately explained.  Some of the humour seems  forced, too.  However, it's not all bad.  We see a bit of--dare I say  it--character development in Rincewind, and it's quite funny in a few  parts.  Probably not worth importing unless you're a hardcore Discworld  person like me, but you should read it when it come out over here.	1998-11-11
US	52432257	R1YDZ0XL8WWW5G	0575600306	942104657	The Discworld Companion: An Invaluable Guide for the Discerning Discworld Traveller	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Hmmm...	This is sort of weird.  I mean, it has some new material, but not that much, and Pratchett's jokes tend to work better in the context of a story than as isolated works.  For devoted Discworlders this is recommended, but  I can't see that you'll really have much use for it, unless you're  fanatical enough that you feel the need to cheat at the Discworld Quizbook  or something...	1998-10-27
US	52432257	R32ZO5U7H53I88	0517149257	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very good indeed...	Could there possibly be a better way to spend fifteen bucks?  I very much  doubt it.  There's just something about this series--somehow, I find it  very comforting when I'm feeling depressed.  Actually, the first time I  read these books I liked them, but I wouldn't say I loved them.  It was  only when I reread them that I realized how great they were.  The short  story's pretty much dispensable, but hey, it's a free bonus, innit?  Also,  the end of Mostly Harmless is none too cheerful.  Anyone else get the  impression that ol' Doug was in a bad mood at the time?  Still, you need  this.	1998-10-23
US	52432257	R39CF4KNZ0TXWR	0385409893	199937184	The Last Continent	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hmmm...	Can't say this is the greatest Pratchett book I've ever read.  These days  it seems as though Discworld novels are sort of hit-or-miss.  I loved Soul  Music, Interesting Times, and Hogfather; I was less than impressed with  Maskerade, Feet of Clay, Jingo, and this.  I was glad to see that the  Unseen U faculty featured prominently here, but they just don't seem as  dynamic as they have in the past.  I dunno; this just didn't really strike  me.  Maybe Carpe Jugulum will be better...	1998-10-23
US	52432257	R1AHH3SHIDOLPQ	1565048946	934339135	Fritz Leiber's Ill Met in Lankhmar	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Yes!	This is wonderful.  The perfect antidote to Tolkien's snorefests.  You  should read it.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R38TNUYWHQNLHE	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Yuck.	I'm one of the seven people who didn't like the Lord of the Rings, but I  have to say, it's very clear to me why people who did would be unhappy with  this sorry imitation.  I won't even go into all the blindingly obvious  parallels between the this and Tolkien's work.  Read the first fifty pages  and you'll find plenty of them yourself.  And seven hundred pages!  God,  even Tolkien wasn't THAT long-winded.  I'd stay away from this one....	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R24SA1D59KRQ53	0880386258	692862201	Weasel's Luck (Dragonlance #3)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A good Dragonlance book!?!?	Aside from the Weis&amp;Hickman books, Dragonlance novels have almost  universally sucked.  This, along with the sequel, Galen Beknighted, is a  rare exception.  The characters are well-defined and always interesting.   The dialogue is sharp, and Williams has a good satirical eye for nobles.   One of the few books in the series worth your time.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R177KJ3WZWVJPV	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	21	55	N	N	A bit overrated, I think...	I hate to say this, but R.A. Salvatore is really not a very good writer.   When I was, oh, ten or twelve, I absolutely adored this stuff.  Then I got  older, and I found that that had changed quite a bit.  Salvatore's  characters are very flat and bland, even when they're not obvious Tolkien  rip-offs.  Having a drow as a central character is novel, but that's about  all it is.  I think it strikes a chord because everybody feels persecuted  sometimes and wishes that they were strong enough to DO something about it.   Drizzt is a guy who really IS and CAN.  Really, though, the dialogue is  trite, the battle scenes are unspeakably tedious, and, though I can't  outright condemn it (I sure as hell enjoyed it at one time), I can't  recommend it to anyone either.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R705KPOUCIVMI	1560760699	975024511	1: Kindred Spirits: The Meetings Sextet, Volume I	Books	1	0	4	N	N	BLECH!!!	I absolutely CANNOT STAND IT when lesser authors screw around with Weis  &amp; Hickman's original characters!  It's such an obviously cynical,  money-motivated ploy, it makes me sick.  Why I read this is beyond me.   Don't you make the same mistake.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R2D7M05TNRK4ZM	1560761210	658358968	The Verdant Passage (Dark Sun World: Prism Pentad, Book 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	YES!!!	I loved this book because it was so strikingly DIFFERENT.  It entirely  rivetted me.  I must've been around twelve at the time, and I read it all  in one massive sitting from noon to three in the morning.  The rest of the  series (except for The Amber Enchantress) wasn't quite as good, I fear, but  this one was wonderful.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R3RMDPLFM8WS68	0786901896	422037845	Dragons Of Summer Flame (Dragonlance Saga Chronicles)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	IT&quot;S NOT SO BAD!!!	I wasn't a huge fan of this book, but I have to write to clear up a  misconception many people seem to have.  Weis&amp;Hickman did not  &quot;decide&quot; to dramatically alter the world forever in a vindictive  and spiteful effort to ruin it for everyone else.  They don't OWN the  rights to the Dragonlance saga, and they are NOT ALLOWED to make decisions  like that!  It was TSR's choice, for God's sake!  If you have to blame  someone, blame them!  And anyway, I hear that Weis&amp;Hickman are  currently working on a new, veiled-in-secrecy Dragonlance trilogy.  So calm  down!  As far as the book goes, It wasn't quite as great as I had hoped,  but it wasn't bad, either.  I got it the instant it came out and read it  pretty much non-stop through Thanksgiving break, and I enjoyed it.  A lot.   It doesn't have quite the magic of their previous Dragonlance books, but  it's still quite fine.  The ending did depress me--and it didn't help that  I finished it at around Midnight on the day before I had to return to  school.  Still, Dragonlance fans should read it.  So there.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	RY9U7ZYQ8EX8X	1568581025	738575076	The Steampunk Trilogy	Books	3	14	22	N	N	Quirky but flawed	This is rather a weird book, but pretty good.  I think the three stories  kind of go in descending order from best to worst.  The first is highly  entertaining, even if it is rather pointless, but, as often happens,  there's some irritating moral ambiguity here.  In this case, the  protagonist meets a lesbian schoolmistress who helps him out, but the last  time we see her consists of him discovering her sexual orientation and  being pissed off at her--and then she's never heard from again.  That  annoyed me, because it was the most interesting aspect of the story.  The  second tale is still more problematic.  The protagonist is an incredibly  egocentric, white-supremist, Swiss professor, and while his points of view  are certainly not ENDORSED, you don't really get the impression that  they're being condemned, either.  Very odd.  I did like the touch of  comparing things to plants and animals and then parenthetically providing  their Latin names.  That was cool.  The story was fairly entertaining, but,  as with all of these, there's rather a pointless aura around it--you don't  get the impression that anything's really happening.  The third story was  the weakest, I think.  The portrayal of Whitman was quite good, Dickinson  less memorable.  And, although the back cover informs us that they meet  Alen Ginsburg, don't expect any sort of meeting-of-the-minds.  Yes they  meet Ginsburg, as well as a number of other twentieth-century poets, but  they're not really detailed in any way--they're all fairly anonymous  children.  And the way they meet them is really unspeakably bizarre.  I  have to admit, it made absolutely no sense, and it was never explained.   Also, the ending was less than happy.  You really have to get used to  Philipo's idiosyncrasies, but if you can, you'll find a quirky and  though-provoking, if somewhat flawed, work of fiction.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	R39EY44XKXEBYQ	0380720868	595253424	Shadow of a Dark Queen (The Serpentwar Saga, Book 1)	Books	1	0	10	N	N	Why people like this stuff is a mystery to me...	This is the first Feist I've ever read, and the last I'll ever read.  The  only epic fantasy I've ever enjoyed has been Weis &amp; Hickman, but I  thought, hey, this guy's popular enough; maybe there's something to him.   So, I read the whole thing, just so I'd be able to tell for sure that I  didn't like it. Well, SOMETIMES I've discovered good books that way--not in  this case, though.  I swear, this reads like something I would've written  in eighth grade.  Plot? Hackneyed.  Characters? Cliched and boring.   Action? Plodding.  I don't understand how people can enjoy this.  It's  really not worth your time to read.	1998-09-27
US	52432257	RCUKAIE404BGF	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	2	3	6	N	N	None too good, I'm afraid...	I'm a bit dubious about all the rave reviews for this book.  Yes, I'm as  fanatical about Pratchett as anybody, but this is simply not one of his  better works.  I've never liked Discworld &quot;mysteries,&quot; and this  is worse than most.  The plot simply isn't very compelling, and Granny  Weatherwax is even more obnoxious than usual.  Basically, if you're a  hardcore Pratchefile, you've already read it, and if you're not, you really  don't need to bother.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R3447HP4D1NQ69	0679740651	770792410	The Game-Players of Titan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best.	One of my favorite Dick novels.  I'm surprised more people haven't  reviewed it.  Very strange, very funny, and you can confuse the hell out of  your friends and family by calling them &quot;vug sticks.&quot;	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R3EKY0S57HSQN4	0451452011	915129613	Red Dwarf: Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We're groovin' tonight!  Ahead, groove factor five, yeah!	The first Red Dwarf book is the only really good one.  In a fashion  similar to the Hitchhiker series, it takes events from the TV series,  liberally dotted with differences and inconsistencies.  It's these new  parts that make it worthwhile, even for those familiar with the sitcom--and  it's quite funny.  Better Than Life doesn't even come close, and you would  be well-advised to assiduously avoid the third one, Last Human.  It's truly  a travesty.  The forth, Backwards, is the second best of the series; if you  have to read another, look for the British import of that one.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R2TB8TGQI3GIBK	0451453573	372532263	Eric (Discworld)	Books	1	4	9	N	N	None too good...	This is not a very good Discworld book.  It's nice to see Rincewind, but  although I've nothing against books that are plotless, per se, but it just  doesn't work here.  It feels forced and pointless, and Eric is a totally  unappealing character.  Still, it's quite short, so you can probably read  it in an hour or so, if you're really devoted to having read every  Discworld novel...	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R3SLKJZOOX6IK3	0345417011	188449651	Kirinyaga	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Don't read the afterward!	It's a good--maybe even great--story cycle, but good lord, do yourself a  favour and assiduously avoid reading the horribly arrogant and obnoxious  afterward, in which Resnick basically lists all the awards the stories have  won, along with fairly unpleasant commentary--this story WOULD have won the  hugo, except that it was disqualified on a technicality.  This one, too,  would have won, except that another story of mine did instead.  And the  only thing capable of defeating a Resnick story is another Resnick story!   God, I made the mistake of looking through this drivel before finishing the  stories, and it really colored my whole perception of them.  Oh well.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	RWTBZJTS25L3Q	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good, but...	This is a very good book.  I thoroughly enjoyed it--but I still had  problems with it.  First of all, I really had a hard time swallowing the  idea that an entire people would VOTE to wipe themselves from existence.   And even if the majority agreed, is it really okay to force that decision  on everyone else?  This seems like a major logical leap, even if it is  necessary to get the story going.  My second problem was with the portayal  of Columbus--let's not beat around the bush: historically, he was a brutal,  power-hungry thug.  This seems to be implying that he was really quite a  swell guy, if only circumstances had been different.        These problems  annoyed me, but I still liked the book.  It's well written and entertaining  as hell.  Well worth reading.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R1XA3W49SFZXFP	0395272238	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (Lord of the Rings)	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Talk about overrated...	I think I'll be one of the few dissenting opinions here.  The only real  reason I read this was because, like so many other people, I had it drilled  into my head what a &quot;classic&quot; it was.  I managed to slog through  the first book, after several aborted attempts, and there I stopped. I can  kind of see where these people are coming from, who trumpet it as the  all-time greatest thing ever.  In one aspect, Tolkien was something of a  genius--Middle Earth is an incredibly rich and detailed world.  However,  that doesn't make the books that take place there particularly good.  The  dialogue is less than sparkling, and the meticulous detail in which  everything is described becomes really, really, tedious.  The characters  are incredibly two-dimensional--Tolkien's obviously more interested in  showing us his world than in creating sympathetic protagonists.  That's his  choice, I suppose, but it really doesn't make for interesting reading.  As  far as characterization goes, there are two main types of characters: the  pathetic little hobbit guys (Frodo, Merry, Sam, et al), and the powerful,  cool, mysterious guys (Gandalf, Aragorn, Elrond, et al)--nothing too deep  here.  On a another note, I've noticed that there are really virtually no  female characters--just Frodo's irritating relative, Goldberry, and a few  elves, if memory serves.  Gads, this is overrated, and the worst part is  that it spawned so many even worse imitators--Terry Brooks, Tad Williams,  and so on.  If you want REAL classic fantasy, you should check out Fritz  Leiber's Lankhmar series--it's superior in nearly every way.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	RM1VW31DCGVQ0	0441033423	349459379	Athyra	Books	3	1	3	N	N	a bit odd...	This wasn't bad, but it was something of a disappointment compared to the  previous books in the series.  I really didn't care for the switch to  third-person narration, and Vlad isn't really the main character--at no  point do you ever actually get inside his head.  It's not a bad book, but  for this series, I think it's something of a letdown.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R2BJIOVFF15UUD	0312853483	755744029	The Memory of Earth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	YES!!!	This whole cycle is my all-time favorite work of Card's, and that's saying  a lot.  Entirely marvelous.  Read it.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R339KYZG4PUZIO	0727844563	551510993	Hart's Hope	Books	5	6	7	N	N	High tragedy...	Card makes one of his rare forays into fantasy here, and it's quite  successful.  It's also very probably the saddest book he's ever written--I  was depressed as hell after reading the ending, but then, that Card's  capable of evoking that emotion in me is a testament to his prowess.  The  narrative style's a bit weird, but you quickly get used to it.  And what's  this about it being out of print?  I demand that somebody rerelease it!	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R331B9JFX09XSO	0553560298	759663897	Shadow of the Watching Star (The First Americans)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	hmm...	I've always liked the First Americans saga, but I have to admit, it can  become rather numbing after a while.  In this second sequence, especially,  virtually all of the characters are pretty much entirely amoral.  There are  very few with whom the reader can actually sympathize.  Still, the imagery  is quite vivid--if you've read the others, read this.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	RJLHAFFU6PHY	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	0	0	N	N	wonderful...	This is one of the most gripping novels I've ever read.  I read the first  few pages on a school night, and the next day finished it in school,  resolutely ignoring the classes I was meant to be paying attention to.   Incredibly gripping.  You've probably already seen Blade Runner, but if you  haven't, I'd read Androids and steer clear of the film.  It's an okay movie  in and of itself, but you'll realize that it's rather a shallow parody of  the masterful book upon which it was based.  Just read it, why dontcha!?!?	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R2ORZXK62D4DW1	0441001963	356394124	Orca	Books	2	6	9	N	N	I'm not too happy with this...	I think the Vlad Taltos series is going downhill somewhat.  I didn't much  care for Athyra, and this one wasn't so great either.  The return to  first-person narration is a plus, even if it's only actually narrated by  Vlad in bits, but overall the book REALLY dragged, with a horribly  convoluted and dull plot that never really led anywhere.  Only the most  ardent Brust fans need check it out.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R1E52JI2LK2SZ6	0061054895	746993744	Soul Music (Discworld)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is the best novel from the best series.  'Nuff said.	This is wonderful.  It's the first Discworld book I've read, and, though  now I've read 'em all, it's still my favourite.  Not only is it bloody  hilarious, but it's also quite poignant, in places--perfectly demonstrating  the dichotomy that makes Pratchett so great.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	RY9MV9GMIKKLP	0812515226	960962763	Five Hundred Years After (The Khaavren Romances)	Books	1	1	9	N	N	Pretty good...	This is better than the Phoenix Guards.  I don't think the characters are  really Brust's strongest, and the Dumas-derived narrative style can be  grating, but it's still pretty good.  The part when the city's engulfed in  Chaos (I'm not giving anything away here; you know it'll happen from the  beginning) was particularly chilling.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R4PFHMRT04BKF	0575047631	51458965	Moving Pictures (Discworld Novels)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Pratchett; not his best, though.	This book has this really irritating quality typical of middle-period  Discworld novels: for the first two thirds of the way through, it's  unadulterated fun.  But then, you get to the last sixty pages, or whatever,  and it insists on building to a profoundly dull climax, rather letting the  reader down after all the prior hilarity.  Still, most of it's great, even  if Soul Music does the same basic idea much better.	1998-09-26
US	52432257	R2FYAAZ24YW82T	0312860390	462526793	The Sun, the Moon, and the Stars	Books	4	1	6	N	N	good	I really liked this book.  The folktale bit is interesting, even if it  doesn't really tie in with the main plot.  I rarely read any type of  fiction that could be construed as mainstream, but this is very good.  I  think you should read it.	1998-09-26
