US	52437038	R2H56I0193IZ0K	0060936193	37246025	The Girl in the Glass: A Novel	Books	5	53	58	N	N	Jeffrey Ford strikes again	Jeffrey Ford is on my short list of authors for whom I'll put down whatever else I'm reading when they have a new book out.  His Well-Built City trilogy is fantastic, The Portrait of Mrs. Charbuque is wonderful, and his short stories are routinely first-rate -- The Fantasy Writer's Assistant is one of my very favorite story collections.  That said, I was a little worried about Ford's latest novel, The Girl in the Glass.  Published under Harper's suspense imprint, Dark Alley, this novel promised to be less overtly fantastical than Ford's previous outings, which did not bode well, as my taste runs toward fantasy. <br /> <br />I needen't have worried.  The Girl in the Glass was a delight from start to finish, or rather a non-stop deluge of delights.  I read it in one sitting, then immediately wished I hadn't, because I wanted to keep on reading it.  Set in Depression-era New York, the story is narrated by a young Mexican immigrant who's been adopted by a con man and is posing as a Hindu to avoid repatriation -- and to add a bit of the exotic to his mentor's act.  The mystery kicks in when, on a con, his mentor sees a ghostly girl in the glass, and makes it his mission to find out who she is and what's going on.  As our characters work to unravel the mystery of the girl, we meet a variety of wonderful characters, from carnies to Klansmen, and get embroiled in all sorts of grotesque, wonderful events. <br /> <br />I'm not so good at plot summary or book reviewing, I think, so I'll say this: it's worth your time to give this novel and this author a try.  Almost every page offers up some new beauty or wonder, the characters are a treat, and the prose goes down smooth.  This is probably not the best book you will read this year, but it is a gem that you would do well not to overlook.	2005-08-17
US	52437038	R27XO8KEWO6RXW	0785114939	484966755	Black Widow, Vol. 1: Homecoming	Books	5	33	40	N	N	Morgan's Widow has fangs!	Over the years Natasha Romanov, the Black Widow, has shown up time and again, often working with The Avengers and Daredevil.  Despite the efforts of more recent Widow scribes such as Jim Starlin, Devin Grayson, Greg Rucka and Bendis, she's long been a laughingstock character -- little more than a sex object, \\"the bike of the Marvel Universe.\\"  But now novelist Richard Morgan (ALTERED CARBON; WOKEN FURIES; etc.) has teamed up with artist Bill Sienkiewicz (ELEKTRA: ASSASSIN) and utterly outdone all previous incarnations of this superspy.  While keeping to established continuity, Morgan has updated the Widow, making her a much more human, respectable character, and the book much less misogynstic than it often has been.  He's scripted a tight, mean, intelligent and topical comic book, aimed at adults rather than adolescent boys, that any fan of espionage fiction, superhero comics or plain ol' good storytelling should enjoy.  Anyone picking up this book looking for exaggerated female bodies in kinky poses will be disappointed, but if you're looking for a very fine comic book, look no further.  Do yourself a favor, even if you don't think you care for this particular character, and pick up this book.  The Black Widow finally has her fangs.	2005-05-09
US	52437038	R1VDTE89HRKPPZ	1892389827	258134710	Leviathan 4: Cities (v. 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another good Leviathan	Jeff VanderMeer's Leviathan series of anthologies is one of the most remarkable such series going (though VanderMeer's taking a break from editorial duties this time around, leaving them to Forrest Aguirre).  The first volume was subtitled Into the Gray, and had stories ranging from \\"mainstream\\" to \\"genre.\\" The second focussed on novellas rather than stories. The third gigantic volume, in addition to winning at least one WFA, also has one of the longest subtitles on my bookshelf: Libri quosdam ad scintiam, lios ad insaniam deduxre. This fouth, Cities, has an obvious enough theme, and while it's not as good as some of the previous entries, it's not bad, either.    The first thing you note when you pick up the book is its hideously gorgeous cover.  Though the cover art is credited to Myrtle Vondamitz III, the only writing I could find on the cover, in the very lower right corner, was, oddly enough, in Hebrew. Simcha, a name meaning \\"happiness.\\" Already I was intrigued.    Looking past the cover, I noted that there was no introduction, which was too bad. I like introductions to anthologies, or at least frame stories. Some sort of overview of what I'm about to get into. Oh, well.    Having read the stories, I guess my taste in fiction is closer to VanderMeer's than to Aguirre's, because I've more consistently enjoyed the stories in the other volumes than here. Here, some of the stories were excellent, some weren't really stories at all but experimental fiction psuedo-story type things, some I didn't understand, and at least one simply left me cold.    \\"The City of God\\" by Michael Cisco is a very surreal, dreamlike story. If you've ever read any of Cisco's novels, you'll know that he can be a very pleasantly difficult writer. The problem I have with his writing on occasion is that I can't always tell whether he's bending grammatical rules for effect, or if a particular sentence is just sloppy. Either way, this is a story without much substance or plot, but a whole lotof language and city-ness.    \\"The Dreaming City\\" by Ben Peek is almost a great story. A story of Mark Twain dreaming in Sydney Harbour's dream, it's a wonderful Australian story that had me wondering just how much of it had actually happened, and left me wanting more than ever to visit Australia. The reason the story doesn't quite achieve greatness is that, as one of its characters once said, \\"The difference between the right word and the almost right word is the difference between lightning and the lightning bug,\\" and it seems that in this story there were a lot of almost right words, keeping sentences that should have been fantastic merely workmanlike. Still, a highly recommended story.    \\"The Soul Bottles\\" by Jay Lake may be the best story in this collection and is, along with \\"The Dreaming City,\\" the most straightforward.    \\"Encyclopedia of Ubar\\" by Catherine Kasper is not a story at all, although it feels like it could fit into one somehow. Despite a couple of interesting images near the end, it really did nothing for me.    Star Wars fans should recognize the name of the writer of \\"Mimosa in Heligola,\\" Allan Kausch. \\"Editorial note: This tale was composed using an obsessive collage technique. Each word was cut out, pondered, abandoned, rescued, positioned, repositioned and then finally glued down. Conventional punctuation would only slow it down and make it boring.\\" An intriguing, very readable story of the seemingly self-writing variety, this was another worthy entry.    \\"We the Enclosed\\" by KJ Bishop is my favorite story in the anthology. Kirsten Bishop is one of the most exciting new writers out there; I liken her to Matt Stover in that I've yet to read anything by her that I haven't enjoyed tremendously. Even when I don't immediately \\"get\\" what she's writing, I love the way she writes it, though this story I get. It's funny and a bit sad and hopeful and a pleasure to read.    \\"The Revenge of the Calico Cat\\" is another gem by extraordinarily underknownwriter Stepan Chapman. Set in Raggedy Ann and Andyland, though its stuffed-animal characters don't know that, it's tragic, bleak, hilarious and quite unlike anything I've read before.    \\"The City of Lost Languages\\" by Darla Beasley started off on the wrong foot, but then proceeded to break my heart before ending with a not-so-good poem.    \\"The Wizard of Wardenclyffe\\" by Ursula Pflug left me cold. This surprised me, as in some other reviews I read it's touted as the best story here, but hey, de gustibus non est disputandum. Come to think of it, I don't think I've ever particularly cared for an Ursula Pflug story. The last one I read, Album Zutique's \\"Python,\\" didn't do it for me either.    The final story in this volume, \\"The Imaginary Anatomy of a Horse,\\" is a fun story-within-a-story-within-a-story-etc sort of story that works well enough. Call me Ishmael.    In the end, this anthology had a fair number of good stories, but they didn't come together as more than the sum of their parts as the best anthologies will. Chances are, if you're thinking of picking this book up, you'll already know if you like the kind of stuff you find in it -- and you'll still find something new, different, and exciting. But it's not the best of its type, and if you haven't already, I recommend picking up Leviathan 3 instead.	2004-11-28
US	52437038	R7D03216XVQLV	0345461142	476842885	Jedi Trial (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	2	47	51	N	N	Another disappointment	In some way Jedi Trial isn't as bad as The Cestus Deception, in some ways a bit worse, but it's inconceivable to me why it's the worst books they're releasing in hardcover these days, leaving the far superior entries, like Hard Contact and Dark Rendezvous, to paperback. <br /> <br />This book is basically a sustained battle scene, and as far as that goes it's okay -- and it's very clear that these writers know their tactics and strategy when it comes to large military engagements -- but, with a few notable exceptions (\\"the Avenger\\"), the action doesn't achieve much intensity, nor does it show us anything particularly interesting or innovative. While the sheer scale -- 1,000,000 battle droids vs 70,000 biologicals -- is pretty impressive, the battles in both Shatterpoint and Hard Contact were more engaging, with more kinetic action and more interesting, thoughtful engagements. So while there is a lot of action, none of it's particularly interesting, and it comes at the expense of character. <br /> <br />The characters for the most part are interchangeable and without character -- take any snippet of dialogue, and for the most part it could easily be attributed to any of the characters in the novel. Characters are just introduced and then imperiled before we have any idea who they are, let alone any reason to care for them, and they never seem to develop throughout the book; the chock romance is particularly clumsily handled -- \\"Everyone I know just died!\\" \\"Hey! Me too! Ah, well, let's be buddies!\\" \\"Great!\\" \\"Cool, now you're an honorary fighter jock!\\" \\"I love you!\\" pretty much sums up the character development in this book. The clones also acted a little off, compared to how they've been portrayed in other sources. Though it was cool to finally see Anakin gain some sense of the big picture, of command, so that we can actually believe that he will grow into such a fearsome military man as Vader is reputed to be. <br /> <br />Also, I kept thinking I was reading a YA novel. The prose was clumsy and boring, with simple sentences and often awkward paragraph structure -- and more typos than are usually found in Star Wars novels. And the authors had an exceedingly annoying habit of showing us a thing, and then, just in case we were too stupid to pick it up, spelling it out for us explicitly. We're not stupid, fellas. We can pick up what's going on, and don't need you to tell us two or four times. <br /> <br />And the Jedi were wasted. We have our Troubled Young Jedi and another Jedi who's got his own problems -- and they don't get to do anything. For the most part, they don't do anything much with the Force, they don't act particularly competent, they don't act particularly serene or Jedi-like, and apart from one scene, there isn't even any cool lightsaber action. <br /> <br />All of what should have been the most interesting scenes in this book are glossed over with throwaway lines, which is also very frustrating. <br /> <br />This isn't a completely awful book, but it's short and sophomoric enough that it would have been much better off as a paperback supplement novel than an \\"event\\" hardcover. And it's truly a shame than one of the much finer Star Wars novels out there will probably be often overlooked because it's a video game tie-in and overshadowed by this clunky, underwhelming hardcover with yet another busy Anderson cover.	2004-11-26
US	52437038	R15X4SEBXA18F6	0345478274	13456449	Hard Contact (Star Wars: Republic Commando, Book 1)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Best Clone Wars novel since Shatterpoint	I was worried when I picked this book up that I'd overhyped it in my mind. I'd only read one other book by Karen Traviss, her excellent CITY OF PEARL (though now I've also read the sequel, CROSSING THE LINE, and heartily recommend them both), and while I'd liked it quite a bit, I was wondering if perhaps I wasn't looking forward to RC a bit too much. I needn't have worried. <br /> <br />I think I mentioned in my review of the first MedStar that one of the things I liked about it was the Wraith Squadron vibe from the assortment of eclectic, non-movie characters. Similarly, I get a great X-Wing feeling in RC, not only with the non-movie, imperfect characters, but also the whole military side, the impossible mission, impossible odds stuff. <br /> <br />The action and introspection were well-balanced; the violent scenes in CITY OF PEARL I thought were some of the weaker scenes in the novel, so I was pleasantly surprised by how much better and more clearly the violence was handled here. The book was a quick read, but a lot more thoughtful than any other Clone War novel so far besides maybe Shatterpoint. The portrayal of the Clones themselves is far superior to that in Cestus Deception. <br /> <br />It seems wrong that one of the finer Clone Wars novels will probably sell fewer copies thanks to the fact that it's marketed as a video-game tie-in with no movie characters.	2004-11-26
US	52437038	R1WIJPF1TMEMM6	0345463099	80649071	Yoda: Dark Rendezvous (Star Wars: Clone Wars)	Books	5	77	80	N	N	Another winner from Sean Stewart	I'm an unabashed Stover groupie. And while I recognize that he's not the best writer out there, he's certainly my favorite - there's just something about the way he writes that I find incredibly appealing. He writes what I want to read. But as I said, favorite is not necessarily best, and while Stover's Star Wars novels are among the best out there, Sean Stewart's novel is easily the best Clone Wars novel yet and one of the best Star Wars novels ever written. <br /> <br />Anyone who's been reading my reviews will know that one of my complaints about some recent Star Wars novels is that the prose itself is boring, regardless of the actions and characters it is describing. Not so here. Unlike a good number of Star Wars writers, Sean Stewart has style. His language is often nearly poetic (sometimes a little too self-consciously so, but thankfully not often) - as one Amazon reviewer put it, \\"at once fluid and precise, impressionistic and razor-fine.\\" Which makes it a pleasure to read this book even during the more sedate moments. <br /> <br />Aside from the language itself, Stewart has many other assets. He's got a wonderful grasp of character, showing for the first time in the novels the character dynamics between Ventress and Dooku, between Dooku and Sidious, between Yoda and Dooku, between Yoda and the rest of the Jedi, etc. He gets into Dooku's and Yoda's heads in a powerful way - Dooku becomes a more sympathetic character while remaining true to the bad guy we know he is, and Yoda in particular is handled fantastically. I was truly worried despite my faith in Stewart that he wouldn't be able to do Yoda justice, but my fears were unfounded. Stewart drew as much from the impish, wise Yoda of ESB as from the more somber, obnoxious Yoda of the prequels, to wonderful effect and more than a few laughs (all of them appropriate - no potty humor here). I particularly enjoyed an exchange about how the Jedi Temple should relocate off of Coruscant, to a more living planet. Finally too we get a little more explanation of the concept between lingering \\"Force spirits,\\" and the exchange between a certain character and Yoda, especially when it comes to that character's estimation of Dooku, is awesome. Oh, and Padm finally also gets an appearance in a novel, however brief. There are a couple problems, though. Every once in a while, for example, Stewart seems to have a little trouble with Yoda's syntax. <br /> <br />Continuity gurus should mostly be pleased (I think; I don't really count myself among their number anymore, so there could've been mistakes I missed), as Stewart refers appropriately to other Clone Wars events without being heavy-handed, and his GFFA name-dropping rarely seems inappropriate or out of place. Stewart also manages to convey the pathos in the Jedi Temple very well, as it is so emptied in the months since Geonosis, with so many Padawans without masters, masters having lost friends, and so forth. There are a couple problems though. For example, I found it hard to swallow that the Ithorians would have such a heavily fortified moon - which is particularly annoying considering that the fact that it's the Ithorian system is not relevant to the story, and it could as easily have been any other system. <br /> <br />Also in this book you will find some of the best lightsaber fights ever committed to the page. Including one involving my own personal favorite fencing cheat - which works, against all expectations, because that particular fight is between Padawans using lightsabers dialed down to training-settings. Plus some good heroics, a pretty good dogfight, some wonderful musings on loyalty and the light and dark sides of the Force. <br /> <br />Overall, a brilliant Star Wars novel, and one it's hard to believe will be topped anytime soon (though I have high hopes for Stover's adaptation of Revenge of the Sith). I doubt they'll manage to bring Stewart back for more SW novels, but I sincerely hope they will. Despite a very fewminor quibbles, this is a tremendous effort. <br /> <br />If you like this book, I also highly recommend Sean Stewart's novel Nobody's Son.	2004-11-26
US	52437038	R3J72XC1518HAR	0451459539	950963119	Thief of Lives (Noble Dead)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Better than Dhampir	Earlier this year I picked up Dhampir based on all the positive reviews on this site and others.  It turned out to be, by a fair margin, the worst book I'd read this year.  Poorly written, poorly executed, quite risible.  Then I went and made kind of a jerk of myself at the Hendees' website.  Now, I've finally picked up the sequel to that book, Thief of Lives. <br /> <br />It's still not very good.  There are still sentences with words missing, weirdly constructed sentences, strange tense shifts, and various other weirdness.  But it's worlds better than Dhampir, and if the authors continue to improve at this rate, by the time the projected five-book \\"Sage of the Noble Dead\\" is complete in a couple more years, they could very well be writing books worthy of all these four- and five-star reviews. <br /> <br />Thief of Lives takes a little too long to get rolling, and it took me four or five tries to punch through the first chapter, but once I managed that it kept my attention.  The action is better-written this time around, the characters are more fun and get into more interesting situations, the plot strands are handled more capably, and while this Eddings meets Gemmell meets Blade story is far from original, it does handle some of its elements in a different way from the usual.  And it doesn't hurt that the plot is right up my guilty pleasure alley. <br /> <br />Hardly a masterpiece of contemporary vampire fiction, this is at least an entertaining bit of escapist fiction, interesting enough that I'll probably pick up Sister of the Dead when it comes out in January -- and if that's as much an improvement on Thief as Thief was on Dhampir, I may just be along for the duration.	2004-11-26
US	52437038	R15GNT2B3GVR8I	0345475720	862784377	Labyrinth of Evil (Star Wars, Episode III Prequel Novel)	Books	4	83	95	N	N	Luceno doing what Luceno does. . .	James Luceno, walking EUncyclopedia, returns once more with yet another of the type of novel he's best suited to write.  His particular strengths and weaknesses are ill-spent on smaller novels such as Agents of Chaos; however, with his comprehensive grasp of GFFA minutiae, he's very well suited to novels such as Cloak of Deception and this newest, Labyrinth of Evil (and to an extent, The Unifying Force), which exist as much to tie multiple plots together into a comprehensive, coherent whole as to tell stories of their own.  Here he manages to take a very impressionistic view of the Clone Wars, told piecemeal in various media and through various relatively unconnected novels, and meld it all into a whole, as well as tying events back to pre-TPM and doing his best to make it look like there actually has been a lot more structure and continuity and causality in the stories we've gotten of the Clone Wars than there really has been. <br /> <br />There's not really much need to talk about his style; by now you already know whether you like it or not.  He has an odd mix of typical third-person POV and near-omniscient viewpoint, without a particularly memorable writing style and with a sometimes-annoying but often useful and fun (at least to the more-than-casual Star Wars fans like me) tendency to infodump and show off just how much he knows about what he's writing about. <br /> <br />This novel doesn't stand terribly well on its own, but then it's not supposed to.  It's more a summation and drawing-together of what's gone before in anticipation of Revenge of the Sith.  To that end, the first two-thirds of the book follow a very straightforward connect-the-dots plot, with the dots being a lot of fun action sequences and the connectors being lots of encyclopedic, almost history-bookish descriptions tying together all that's gone before.  Then, for the final third, the book takes a dramatic turn for the better -- and more exciting (especially for me, since I've been keeping myself spoiler free for Revenge of the Sith) -- as the book leads straight into what will prove to be the HUGE opening moments of the final Star Wars film. <br /> <br />Here we see Anakin and Obi-Wan, Mace and Yoda all in fine form.  Padm, Bail Organa, Mon Mothma and other familiar faces also all show up.  Dooku, while not quite as fleshed-out as in Dark Rendezvous, is still an interesting character.  Palpatine and Sidious are as good as we've ever seen them, if not better (and worse).  And finally, finally we get an introduction to the character of General Grievous, whom we've seen in comics and television shows but has been conspicuously absent from the novels.  Also in this book we've got some pointed political commentary that those leaning more to the right probably won't particularly appreciate, we've got a fine antecedent for a key moment in ANH, and, in true Star Wars fashion, plenty of dis-arming and other dis-memberment. <br /> <br />In the end, this is for the most part an okay Star Wars novel that blossoms in the end into one of the better ones, and leaves you salivating for Revenge of the Sith.	2004-11-26
US	52437038	R1KE7TPVROEPBC	1894815416	87833024	Fisher of Devils	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A wonderful book!	It's been months since I read the book, but I felt that I had to defend this book from the avid reader below.  I myself am an avid reader, (though not so avid a reviewer, for reasons that will be clear to anyone who reads this one) and I thought FISHER OF DEVILS was wonderful.  It's true, the first segment, set in the Garden of Eden around the time of creation, can be something of a chore or even offensive if more slapstick humor -- especially humor poking fun at religion -- is not your thing.  But after that short opening bit, the book goes in a different direction entirely.  It's still humorous fantasy -- at times extraordinarily funny -- but it's got depth, also.  It is a love story, or even many of them.  An adventure.  A quest.  A mystery.  And armageddon.  FISHER OF DEVILS is a fun, funny, thoughtful, memorable book that will most likely stick with you long after you've read it, and deserves a place beside GOOD OMENS in your collection of Apocalyptic Comedic Fantasy -- though as far as I'm concerned, FISHER is a far better and funnier novel than OMENS.  I read literally hundreds of books each year, and last year, FISHER OF DEVILS made my 10 Favorites list.  Take that as you will.<br />And read the book.  Steve Redwood is a writer to keep an eye on.	2004-07-02
US	52437038	R1B1G5M9E6I21P	0345458974	596840647	The Cestus Deception (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	3	20	29	N	N	A fanboy's review. . . (minor spoilers ahead)	I was really looking forward to this book. Interesting premise, pretty good author, and the early word of mouth from my fellow SW fanboys was outstanding.  Unfortunately, if I had to pick one adjective to describe this book, it would be boring. Usually it takes me several hours to read a Star Wars novel, and I do it over the course of a couple sittings. This book took me about four days, because every few minutes I was compelled to put it down and go spend my time doing more interesting things. And the one question I kept asking myself as I was reading it was, &quot;Why again am I supposed to care what's going on here?&quot; <br />I guess for me the whole plot seemed pretty unimportant, because the whole opening scene with the JK didn't impress or excite me, and so I never got the feeling that these new droids were really a threat of sufficient magnitude that we devote a whole novel, especially a hardcover novel, to them. The main reason for this lack on my part is, as best I can tell, the writing. It was generally not bad, but it ranged from boring (most of the time) to (occasionally) downright odd. I should not be falling asleep in the middle of a lightsaber duel, or a high-speed chase. The writing should be sufficiently kinetic, or at least interesting, during such sequences that it holds my attention rather than testing my ability to hold my eyes open. And I had the same problem through the rest of the book. Even when the plot and action themselves were interesting, I found myself disinterested by the prose itself. Ooh! Cool plot twist! But . . . I don't really want to read about it right now, because it's written in such a boring fashion. And wait . . . why again are our heroes risking their lives on this backwater world? Hmm . . . oh, yeah. There's some kind of threat that they might sell the Confederacy some droids, and these droids are supposed to be pretty deadly. Right. So why do I keep forgetting the scenes when that was demonstrated? <br />I also, havingread The Hive before I read TCD, found it hard to reconcile the two. I mean, the events in the novella were so important that I couldn't believe they weren't even referred to or glossed over in the novel, because they certainly had quite an impact on the relationships between several key characters. <br />The X'Ting weren't bad, but there wasn't enough to them to really get me interested in them, either. So they have a crappy history. I'm sorry for them, but I wasn't given any reason to care much what happens to them. <br />As for the characters . . . mostly, meh. Someone mentioned above a displeasure with Ventress. I agree. She looks badass in the comics, but this book didn't supply enough about her to really make her work for me. Darth Maul, I knew enough about him from the film to make him work as the antagonist in the book, but with Ventress, she just kind of appears out of nowhere here and expects to be taken seriously. Her character here comes out of nowhere, doesn't develop, and basically goes nowhere. It was also kind of weird how, after she'd smiled about three times in the book, her next one was described as her first. <br />And then Obi-Wan. He was a complete buffoon here. Early in the novel, he's thinking back over his recent activities, and doesn't recally any suspicious events. Obviously he's forgetting the ball from the previous night in which he sensed a presence that unnerved him, but then disappeared soon after he noticed it. And later when Quill comes in with the holos of his staged fight from a different angle -- all I can say is, why the heck couldn't two Jedi stage a more convincing fight? <br />Kit didn't bother me, but he was barely a presence here. I rather like Snoil, other than the name. But the only character I particularly enjoyed following here was Nate/Jangotat. His were the only chapters I actually managed to muster up any interest in. <br />I also got the feeling that while Barnes may like Star Wars, he isn't very well-versed in it.Since when do Kuati have scales? Why is Obi-Wan so interested in his reaction to individual ARCs after his friendship with Alpha, another &quot;individual&quot; clone trooper? <br />In the end, this is just a boring book that doesn't really do much, doesn't explore any particularly interesting questions to any great extent, and isn't very engaging. It definitely should not have been a hardcover. <br />The Cestus Deception's not as downright offensive as Force Heretic II or Ruins of Dantooine, but it's not good either.	2004-06-07
US	52437038	R100GRHHF3X08O	0060541695	920698290	City of Pearl (The Wess'har Wars)	Books	4	56	65	N	N	A fine, compelling debut.	CITY OF PEARL, the beginning of a trilogy, is a fine debut for Karen Traviss.  For me, the first forty pages or so were a bit rocky, but after that I was hooked, pulled slowly but surely through the first half of the book then literally unable to put it down throughout the latter half.<br />Traviss' prose isn't remarkable, but it is solid and readable.  Her strength, though, lies in her characters.  This book is, as other reviewers have pointed out, &quot;hard SF,&quot; but it's not about its science.  It does have a group of marines, but unlike so many other books with similar plots, it doesn't devolve into milporn with stock characters and action scenes.  Each character is well-developed and human, often all too human. (In fact, one of my problems with this novel is one I have with a lot of SF novels: the aliens are too human for my liking.  But that's a minor quibble.) This is a very character-driven novel, despite the silliness on the cover.  Also, Traviss manages the tricky feat of integrating her various themes and ideas -- environmentalism, responsibility and loyalty, heroism and courage, humanity and its various strengths and shortcomings, and plenty more -- into the novel without coming over as preachy or pretentious.<br />One thing about the book that left me cold was the violence.  There was remarkably little of it, but what there was was neither terribly engaging nor terrible effective; it just kind of happened.  Makes me wonder how the inevitable violence in Traviss' upcoming Star Wars novel will turn out.<br />But that aside, this is an extremely compelling and quite satisfying novel that definitely kept my interest to the end and left me thirsty for more.  It ended well, with an appropriate amount of closure, and I can't wait until Book 2 comes out to get back into the lives of these characters. I wonder whether we'll stick with Shan as much in the sequel, or whether the focus will shift to a POV character closer to the Isenj.  Either way, I hope andsuspect we'll be seeing more of Eddie, the journalist character (into whom I suspect the author poured more than a little of herself), the Constantine colony, and, perhaps, if he can be worked in, Bennett.<br />Really, this is a 4.5 star novel, an extremely impressive debut and quite a worthwhile and satisfying read.	2004-04-09
US	52437038	R2B596BKUVTIFB	0765308525	700024100	Terminator 3: Terminator Dreams	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Allston does it again!	I was torn when this book came out.  On one hand, I thought Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines was a very mediocre film.  The fact that not only did it fudge the continuity of the previous films but was also inconsistent within itself did not help matters.  So when I heard there was going to be a tie-in novel, and a hardcover to boot, I had no interest in reading it.  Then I heard it would be by Aaron Allston.  Allston, whose X-Wing novels rank among the best of the Star Wars expanded universe, and whose &quot;Doc Sidhe&quot; novels are also surprisingly good, is one of my favorite escapist writers and he has, I think, the potential to write some Really Good Books down the line.  So, as I said, I was torn: I wanted the new Allston book, but I certainly did *not* want to buy a hardcover Terminator novel.  Well, I found it cheap, so I bought it.  And once more, Allston failed to disappoint.<br />Allston's writing is not as strong here as in some of his previous novels, but it's still well above the standard for movie tie-in novels.  He writes action (and in this novel there's certainly plenty of it) well; this is definitely a page-turner.  The characters aren't terribly interesting, but they're consistent and amusing -- one of the things I love about Allston is his ability to make me laugh -- and not *too* clichéd.  And if you can forgive the never-quite-explained time-traveling-dreaming thing, the plot is certainly lots of fun to watch unfold.<br />This novel is much better written and much more entertaining than S.M. Stirling's (now obsolete) T2 trilogy, if not as dense.  It also goes a long way toward filling in many of the plotholes and inconsistencies in the Terminator 3 film.  It's interesting to see more of Cyber Research Systems' and Skynet's history, as well as a better look than we've seen before (outside of the comics) at the post-Judgment Day future.  Although I will say that the future here certainly seems a lot less bleak and grim and horrible than it did in the flashback scenes of the original Terminator film.  But I digress.<br />If you're a Terminator fan, if you've liked any of Allston's other books, or if you're just looking for a fun, action-packed and reasonably well-written leisure read, this is for you.  Lots of fun; recommended.<br />I do wish, though, that Allston had a slightly higher original novel to tie-in novel ratio.  I think right now he's got three original novels and eleven books set in various film or RPG universes.  I hope he has the chance to even up that score a bit.	2004-02-13
US	52437038	RONUE85P142G9	0345455738	448911863	Shatterpoint (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	5	39	48	N	N	This ain't your daddy's Rebellion. . .	My review in one word: superb. Shatterpoint is an excellent Star Wars novel, and an excellent start to the Clone Wars novel campaign. Although the book is significantly longer than Traitor, it's all from the POV of one character: in this instance, Mace. I wasn't sure how that would go when I started the book, because Mace, as far as I was concerned, didn't really have a character. He had a couple of lines in the films, but for most of the comics he was just kind of there, without a whole lot of personality. So I didn't really have a clear mental image of the guy. But it turned out well. He turned out to be a compelling character. <br />I guess the Star Wars novel that this most reminds me of in terms of content is a much darker Courtship of Princess Leia. Just a thought. <br />It was good seeing a Jedi actually using the Force. Too often, but not always, the Force is used in pretty unimaginative ways, when it's used at all -- it seems that some authors forget that it's there until they come up with a scene specifically designed to use it in some neat way. But it's used frequently and often quite imaginatively here. <br />I also really enjoyed the action. Nothing as powerful as the Ganner sequence, but it wasn't as abstract, either. There were lightsaber fights, Force-fights without sabers, ground battles, dogfights, everything, all done very well. Some of my favorite Star Wars fights are contained in this novel. Pretty action packed. All done very well. Those of you who liked seeing Luke in action with two sabers . . . just wait till you see Mace. Wow. <br />Also, this book has a great deal of the humor that didn't make it into Traitor. A few of the jokes were groaners, but there were quite a few good chuckles in there as well. Some of the characters seemed pretty stock, but most were well-done, and I'd like to see more of Geptun down the line. <br />So as a Star Wars novel it's a good, thoughtful, action-packed adventure. But it's also a Clone Wars novel. And it also works on that level. <br />Though the events of this book probably don't have a huge impact on the Clone War itself, this book was a good introduction. It really defines the role of the Jedi in the war, which is essential because, for better or worse, it seems that all of the upcoming CW novels are about the Jedi participants, and it also really serves to underscore the difference between the Jedi and the fundaments of the Jedi Order in the time of the Republic, as opposed to the Jedi we're used to seeing in the NR/NJO days. This book really helps to underscore both the differences and similarities between how the two orders operated and trained and thought and functioned. <br />Of course, take this out of the GFFA, and it also serves as a war novel in its own right, going over territory familiar and less so about the rules of war, and the way war is waged, and the terror of war, and how no one really wins in a war, and all that kind of stuff. <br />As far as I'm concerned, this book works on just about every level. Shatterpoint is a great read. Not Stover's best, and it's too early to tell yet how long it will stay with me, or whether it'll be my favorite Star Wars novel - it may be, though - but a very good effort.	2003-06-06
US	52437038	R3UY92MNUTDPQI	0061052493	593843215	Waking Beauty	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wordy? You bet! And every one of them worth reading. . .	I've had this book recommended to me so many times that I could hardly not track down a copy, and boy am I glad I did.  I must admit I was a little concerned going into it - some of the other reviews here are pretty harsh - but those concerns were unfounded.  I guess my main advice to anyone seeking to enjoy this book is simply this: don't base your expectations on the cover blurb.  It really has very little to do with this book.  I must say that this doesn't surprise me, because this would be a very difficult book to sum up in a blurb.<br />In that blurb, too, Witcover is compared to Anne Rice and Clive Barker.  I beg to differ.  His voice is entirely his own, and an enchanting voice it is.  This book, as the cover notes, is &quot;A dream . . . a fantasy . . . an illusion . . . an illumination.&quot;  Yes, it's wordy, but every word is worth it.  It's a beautiful, haunting novel; a story you won't soon forget, not least because, in all its surrealism, in all its fanastical elements, this book's lessons and morals hits very close to home.  Also, it's surprising.  More and more often I find that I know what's going to happen in a book long before it happens.  Not so here.  I didn't know where it was going, but the characters and story - and the twistedly delightful versions of common stories - were all compelling enough to make the ride a pleasure instead of a chore.  Despite the book's moderate length - more than 400 pages in hardcover - I found it hard to put down.<br />This book is a masterpiece - and it is only Witcover's first novel.  I eagerly await whatever offering he sends TUMBLING AFTER.<br />Highly recommended	2003-05-04
US	52437038	R3M5A70K1GWIFV	1892389606	393872026	Album Zutique: No. 1	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not every anthology should be a Leviathan	From the Ministry of Whimsy Press, publishers of the fantastic LEVIATHAN anthology series, comes this first in a new series: ALBUM ZUTIQUE.  &quot;A series,&quot; the back cover notes, &quot;devoted to the surreal &amp; decadent.&quot; Yes, yes, and so it is.  But is it good?  You bet.  The fifteen stories contained herein are all beautifully written, truly a feast for the eyes and the mind.  There were a couple stories that I'm not quite sure I got, and a couple more that I'm quite sure I didn't get, but even the few that went right over my head in terms of content were so beautifully written that I almost didn't mind.  Standouts are the pair of stories by the always fantastic Rhys Hughes, and the hauntingly beautiful entry by K.J. Bishop. But there wasn't a dud in the bunch; not a one I didn't enjoy reading.  So why only four stars?  Two reasons.  First, as I noted, there were a couple stories that I didn't get.  Second, and more importantly, while this is a beautiful, beautifully produced volume, the cover price is a little steep considering the 200-page, 50k word size of the volume.  Even so, ALBUM ZUTIQUE #1 is a welcome and more-than-worthy addition to my bookshelf.<br />Next up: ALBUM ZUTIQUE #2, which will be Rhys Hughes' A NEW HISTORY OF INFAMY.  I, for one, can't wait!<br />Recommended	2003-05-04
US	52437038	R59GBREPIKANK	0246132280	594975501	Life During Wartime	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Read it. . .	Lucius Shepard is a strong and beautiful writer. His stories have frequently been compared to those of Joseph Conrad, and indeed Shepard is a master of the short story and the novella. R&R, the novella that makes up the opening of this novel, is a beautiful and terrible read, and the quality of the writing remains consistently captivating throughout. So why have I given this novel only three stars? Because, as a novel, it doesn't really work. Shepard writes fantastic short fiction, but when he wrote LIFE DURING WARTIME, he just wasn't ready to tackle a novel. It reads like a series of episodes, each an good read on its own, but each also providing its own closure. But they are linked closely enough that were I to read something else in between them, I'd likely lose track of the details of the plot. So, while the writing is beautiful, the plot interesting, and each episode a joy to read on its own, the novel isn't able to sustain its momentum throughout. I'm glad I read it, but as a novel, it just doesn't quite work.	2003-05-04
US	52437038	R382DOCQGGZMKO	0756400473	163457578	The Eyes of God (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	22	28	N	N	A departure for Marco	Having read John Marco's previous novels, of the TYRANTS AND KINGS trilogy, I went into THE EYES OF GOD with high expectations.  T&amp;K, despite characters that were usually pretty weak, was an amazing military fantasy, featuring some the best-written and most inventive battle sequences I've ever read, and quite a bit of interesting strategizing.  THE EYES OF GOD, however, is a very definite departure from what Marco has written before.  This novel is much more character-driven than his other novels; it is not about a war, but about the interactions of its characters.  This was an ambitious move on Marco's part, considering how weak many of his characters have been in his previous novels, and it provides mixed results.<br />This book is broken into three parts, each better than the last.  Truth to tell, I really had to force my way through much of Part One; there was very little originality there.  Part One was mostly just a retelling of the whole Arthur/Lancelot/Guenevere story, with a few twists, but it really served to make me a bit wary as to what the rest of the novel would hold.  Part Two picks up nearly twenty years later, and basically is there to get all the characters in position for Part Three, which is where the final confrontation between characters occurs.  Not only did my level of interest in the plot grow with each successive part -- Marco's skill at writing believable characters grew, too.  At the beginning of the novel, many of the characters' actions seemed kind of spontaneous and didn't really work with what we knew of the characters, but by the end the characters all seemed real and natural.<br />THE EYES OF GOD is a massive book, an epic fantasy that is truly worthy of the name.  Like all of Marco's previous novels, this one stands alone even though it is part of a series.  This is a book about love and betrayal, passion and madness, loyalty and honor, cowardice and paranoia and guilt.  There are some battles, though frequently not on the scale of Marco's previous novels.  There are nations at war, but they are not the point of this book.  There are magical amulets, characters with &quot;magic,&quot; monstrous beings, intrigue and revenge.<br />Overall, despite a shaky start, this novel is definitely worth reading, and Marco's definitely an author to keep your eyes on.	2002-08-18
US	52437038	R27YTGGX16E5G1	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	1	125	143	N	N	"The Epic Fantasy of the Year" -- isn't	As I was reading this book, a line from THE MUSIC MAN kept running through my mind: \\"But ya gotta know the territory!\\"<br />Let me explain:  This is Robert Newcomb's debut novel.  No marks against him there; everyone's got to start someplace.  But not only has he not written fantasy before; apparently, he has only *read* one fantasy novel in his life.  How someone can presume to participate in a genre in which he's not well-versed, I don't know, but Newcomb's lack of background shows in that he falls into the cliché-trap at nearly every turn.<br />You've got an ancient war with prophecies and repercussions into the present day. You've got a gruff, inscrutable wizard mentoring the young, reluctant prince -- who happens to have unimaginably vast magical potential.  There is no all-powerful EEEVILLLLL Dark Lord, but what there is is worse:  the enemies are Sorceresses, the female magic-wielding counterparts of Wizards.  Unlike in Robert Jordan's books, in which case there is a plausible reason for the schism between male and female magic users, here for some reason the women are just kind of randomly, innately evil.  The author pretty much comes out and says that women, granted power, will almost inevitably use it for evil, whereas men, granted the same power, manage to maintain self-control and use it only altruistically.<br />The writing is effective but pedestrian; in fact, it could use quite a bit of work.  Newcomb has some pretty good visuals, but he often rambles on for pages of details when mere paragraphs would have been sufficient; he uses five words where one would work.  The book is full of awkwardly phrased sentences, typos, and annoyingly frequent repetition of phrases such as \\"impossible angles,\\" or the use of \\"the old one\\" to describe the wizard.  Additionally, the violence is brutally and graphically depicted without being at all kinetic or engaging, making even the battles a chore to read.<br />In terms of the plot, the novel opens hundreds of years in the past, at the end of a war between the Sorceresses and the Wizards.  The Wizards, having won, make an unbelievably, and unforgivably, stupid decision -- they free the evil and powerful leaders of the Sorceresses to live in exile, rather than executing them.  Needless to say, this altruistic act comes back to haunt them, as the Sorceresses, like the Wizards, have employed their powers to make \\"time enchantments\\" that make them effectively immortal.  The Sorceresses, presumed dead in their exile, create a big army and. . .you get the picture.<br />As for the magic itself, which is an important thing in a fantasy novel, it's pretty much a rehash of the old \\"Light Side of the Force/Dark Side of the Force\\" dichotomy with a few twists that pretty much make no sense.  Further, there's very little sense of any kind of *rules* to the magic system; a Wizard seems able to do just about anything with magic without tiring or draining himself unduly.<br />To close, I'll say this: I've seen this book compared to George R. R. Martin's books several times.  I'd just like to point out that Martin's novels are not popular because they're big, thick fantasy.  They're popular because they're good.  Despite their length, they don't waste words.  Every scene is important.  Every character is important.  And the events are not standard, clichéd fantasy fare.  Readers are smart.  They are not fooled by the fact that a book is long, and they recognize quality when they see it.  This book is not quality fantasy.  It is overlong, overdetailed, boring, silly, and far too self-important.  I, for one, will not be reading any further volumes of this series.	2002-08-17
US	52437038	R3LM76JSYXA18V	075640083X	851288995	Sorcery Rising:: Book One of Fool's Gold	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Good fun (3.5 stars)	\\"Literary fantasy\\" it isn't, but if you're looking for some good, fast, fun adventure, this is the book for you.<br />This book moves along at an incredibly rapid clip.  There are quite a few characters, but the author doesn't sit with any one of them too long; she cycles through the characters quickly enough that you never get bored with any of them, and in such a way that the plot moves right along.  The characters themselves aren't particularly deep or complex, but they are all well-defined and act consistently, and are mostly quite likeable.  Also, there are thankfully no \\"Good\\" or \\"Evil\\" characters, just people who are living their lives. An interesting twist that's not found in too many fantasy novels is that the different characters in the book are from very different societies, meeting at the \\"Allfair,\\" rather than a group of people all hailing from the same village/region, which adds some interest to their interactions.  Additionally, the banter/dialogue between the characters tends to be quite entertaining.<br />This novel is clearly the opening to a bigger story, a prologue really, written mainly to establish the characters and world.  The series title, \\"Fool's Gold,\\" is apt, but it's not what this particular book is about.  This book is about the re-emergence of magic.  At the beginning of the novel, magic really is a non-issue in the world, but as the book progresses, simple charms and spells start working far too effectively, as the characters realize that the magic of the world is \\"re-awakening.\\"  Not an entirely novel idea, but it's presented in a fun way.<br />Overall, this is fun fantasy.  If you want dark, realistic, complex nitty gritty, look elsewhere, but if you're looking for something along the lines of Farland's Runelords or Haydon's Rhapsody (minus the angst), then this is the book for you.  A solid, if not perfect, debut novel.  I'm looking forward to the next book in the series.	2002-08-14
US	52437038	R2KU33QY7UOB3Y	1568582080	714462585	Angry Young Spaceman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Angry Young Author (4.5 stars)	ANGRY YOUNG SPACEMAN is a fast, fun, touching, tragic book about a disenfranchised young man who departs a future Earth -- treeless, oceanless, completely commercialized and culturally regulated -- to teach English on a backwater, underwater world.  On the surface, this book is an interesting, vividly imagined fish-out-of-water story, but it is also so much more.  Munroe packs this book chock-full of biting social/cultural/political commentary/criticism -- pretty much you can just substitute America for Earth, and just about any third-world country for Octavia, and you'll get the picture.  Despite the serious and relevant undertones, the book is written in a funny, witty, straightforward conversational tone, making it very readable and almost impossible to put down.  The characters, while not people I'd particularly want to spend time with, are interesting and likeable, the settings are interesting, well fleshed-out, and believable.  The customs and conventions of the people ring true, as do the attempts by the locals of &quot;modernization&quot; to meet the Earth standards.  This book is well worth the read.	2002-08-09
US	52437038	R1W4LYABSARI4J	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	207	225	N	N	A joy to read. . .	Going in to CRYPTONOMICON, I had absolutely no idea what to expect.  I'd never read anything by Neal Stephenson, nor had I read any blurbs or reviews of the book.  However, it had appeared on enough \\"Best Book\\" lists that I decided to give it a try.  And boy am I glad I did.<br />This novel is fun, huge, funny, rambling, witty, and sprawling.  It is clever, engaging, and well-paced.  It is full of quirky, eccentric, immensely likeable characters, crazy, interesting ideas, and amusing, often hilarious, looks at various situations including, but not limited to, mathematics, life, how to eat Cap'n Crunch properly, the purpose of beards, and well, just about anything else you can think of.  Obviously, then, this book is not for everyone.  Those who like tight, meticulously pared-down straightforward stories may not be able to get into this one.<br />For me, though, as you may have guessed from the title of the review, this book was an absolute joy to read.  The books chapters cycled between four main characters, and every time I finished a chapter I found myself in an awkward position: I didn't want to go on, because I wanted to keep reading about the character I'd been following.  However, by the end of the first paragraph of the next chapter, I'd be feeling the same way about the next character in the cycle. It was an odd feeling, and a tribute to the skill with which Stephenson created these characters that each of them was so completely engaging.<br />In addition to the main characters, the settings and situations were vivid and well-drawn.  Despite this books immensity and its tendency to ramble at length about inanity, it never got boring, and always retained its charm.  Stephenson provides us with a very amusing outlook on life.<br />However, this book is not without flaws, the two biggest of which have been noted in previous reviews:<br />1) Women.  There are no really well-developed female characters.  Most of the women have virtually no \\"screen time\\" at all, and the one who does have quite a bit of time is not fully realized as a character.  It would have been very helpful to have gotten inside her head once in a while.<br />2) The ending.  This book kind of just ends, without resolving properly.  It feels like it just cuts off, and that was kind of unsatisfactory.  Randy's story deserved at least another chapter or an epilogue of some sort to tie-up the plot.  Alas, Stephenson, at the end, couldn't deliver.<br />So, as I've said, this book is delightfully readable, and if not for the sudden ending, would easily have garnered a 5/5 rating.  I'm definitely looking forward to the next CRYPTONOMICON book (which, if I'm not mistaken, is intended to stand alone; it will not be a sequel, per se).	2002-08-07
US	52437038	R3R2S9S2SEUHUW	034542865X	707181604	Traitor (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 13)	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Jacen's Odyssey	Let me make two things clear: I am a diehard Star Wars fanboy, and a bigtime Stover groupie.  A such, when this novel was announced months ago, it quickly became my most anticipated Star Wars novel ever.  As the months wore on, the anxiety grew; I needed this book, and simply couldn't wait to get my hands on it.  I trusted that Stover would give me a fantastic novel.  My trust was not unfounded.<br />Right from the outset, this book is something special.  Stover is a compulsively readable writer, and his prose and writing style are head and shoulders above many of the other authors writing Star Wars novels.  He knows how to turn a phrase and shape a paragraph so that it sticks in your mind long after you've finished reading the book.<br />And what a book!  From the Holy [cow]! opening (which finally explained Jacen's emanations from Dark Journey) to the stunningly awesome climax (featuring one of the coolest lightsaber fights ever) to the outstanding three-against-the-galaxy ending (and you'll NEVER guess who the third one is), Traitor proved impossible to put down. Literally. I read it in one sitting and have since read it twice more.  Jacen's feats in this book put to shame similar conquests by his siblings in the novels focusing on them, and Vergere absolutely blossoms as an interesting, enigmatic character. Jacen's revelations throughout the novel, often spurred by Vergere's observations, are consistently interesting (and pretty consistent with what you'd come to expect from a Stover novel). With Nom Anor it's pretty much just more of the same, which is getting kind of old, but Ganner really shines here. You can expect a cameo or three from a long lost pal, as well as a whole lot of Stover-style philosophizing on the nature of the Force and its Dark Side, as well as what makes a Hero, and what makes a Jedi, and a whole bunch of other questions that haven't, or haven't often, been tackled before in a Star Wars novel.  You'll be surprised at the answers offered, when they are offered, which isn't always, considering that, as is said, the question is often more telling than the answer. The action is fantastic, as is to be expected from a Stover novel, and for you skeptics out there - put your fears to rest; there's only one fight scene (out of many) that's described at all graphically or gorily. Do not mistake graphicness for intensity, however - these fights are as intense as anything you've seen in a Star Wars novel. Overall, yes, this is easily my favorite New Jedi Order novel so far; my only real complaint is that there's not more of it. And it could have used a little more humor.<br />If you're a Star Wars fan, or a Stover fan, or just a fan of good Literature (yes, I daresay that this, a Star Wars novel, qualifies as Literature), you can't go wrong with this book.  It is, quite simply, the best Star Wars novel yet published.	2002-07-30
US	52437038	RESFP4VU0LMPS	0345428684	499156103	Rebel Stand: Enemy Lines 2 (Star wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another worthy entry to the New Jedi Order	THERE BE MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD. YOU'VE BEEN WARNED. <br />Rebel Stand was a lot of fun, but not as good as Rebel Dream, and a lot of it seemed incidental. There were three main plots: <br />Han/Leia: This was the most fun, and the best, plotline of the book. Their banter was fun, the politics were fun, the daring escapes were fun. <br />Luke&Co on Coruscant: This was very strange. The Wraiths were fun, but this whole part of the story just seemed not to have much to do with anything. I'm all for bringing characters out of limbo, but why this particular character? Still, Nyax was really cool, and has many of the features that I used to toy with in all the fanfics I never finished. Who wants to bet that this \\"force well\\" under the Jedi Temple is going to come into play in a big way in Traitor? <br />The defense on Borleias: This was really downplayed here from the last book, with only a few Wedge and Jaina scenes. Janson was a welcome addition, but he unfortunately got barely more than a cameo. There's a great scene in which Wedge is again established as the greatest pilot in the galaxy. And I think that Allston has a fetish for creating inventive ways to scrap SSDs.  <br />It was nice to see Tarc out of the picture in a satisfactory was, and equally a pleasure to get into 3PO's head again, as we did in (I think) Jedi Eclipse and to a lesser extent Rebirth, seeing how he actually is petrified of destruction and seeing how he's learning that to be a hero means to have fear in the first place. Unfortunately, Lando doesn't show up, but YVH-11A has a big part in 3PO's little epiphany, so that's okay. I thought that Viqi's demise was somewhat anticlimactic, but it was also completely in-character, and fitting. And Tahiri's little revelation towards the end about pain sounds suspiciously similar to Jacen's same revelation in the Traitor excerpt...  <br />The space battles were okay but certainly not phenomenal, and were definitely lacking an \\"OH SH!T\\" factor. I think that the exact aim of Emperor's Spear should've been kept secret from the reader until Czulkang finally figured it out; it would've been more impressive that way. <br />Overall, this was a lot of fun to read, quite fulfilling, but some of the plotlines seemed kind of irrelevant; a lot of the book was devoted more to character growth and situational setup towards a future payoff rather than moving the plot itself forward. Not Allston's best effort but definitely worth the read.	2002-05-29
US	52437038	RLYR4PPG5DA5D	0553379194	541233613	Fortress Draconis (The DragonCrown War Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Author in progress	I've been a fan of Mike Stackpole's since he released his first X-wing novel.  I've since read all his subsequent Star Wars stories and comics, as well as his fantasy novels put out by Bantam and Harper.  And it's no secret that I've been disappointed with his latest efforts (Dark Tide, I, Jedi, and Dark Glory War).  I must say, however, that this book is a definite improvement, probably his best work since Once a Hero and Talion: Revenant.  Also, this seems to be Mike's most massive novel yet.<br />Despite my displeasure with Dark Glory War, I've really been looking forward to this book, and was extremely pleased to open my copy and start reading.  For the first fifty pages or so, the writing or editing seemed pretty sloppy, and I was mentally bracing myself for the negative review.  But as the book went on, *something* changed, and the writing style improved vastly.<br />In terms of characters, Mike finally seems to be breaking out of his rut.  Tarrant Hawkins, Corran Horn, Nolan...all of his heroes always seemed exactly the same.  For the first time in years I didn't feel like I was reading the exact same character with a different name slapped on.  In fact, we get several heroes in this book (at least one of them can only loosely be labelled &quot;hero,&quot; though).<br />This book also kept things moving.  The plot is fast moving, the characters mostly compelling. Granted, by the time you're ten pages into the book, you'll know who two of the main characters *really* are, and there's not really a whole lot of suspense, but the deftly fleshed-out characters and typically wonderful action sequences more than make up for that.<br />I really only have three problems with this book.  The first is one common to the genre -- the bad guy is too one-dimensional.  She's EEEVVVIIILLLL and must be stopped at all costs, but there's really no personality or development there.  She's just this horrible evil force.  The second is one common to the author -- the dialogue justdoesn't sound real.  Most of the conversations sound like a collection of speaches and one-liners somehow mashed into dialogue form.  The third and final problem is more a matter of taste than a problem, per se -- I found that occasionally the book would bog down too much with the planning sessions and then spend too little time on the subsequent battles.<br />However, even with these gripes, this is Mike's best work in years, thoroughly enjoyable.  I can't wait for Rage of Dragons! (Write faster!)	2001-12-12
US	52437038	R3TJ6SUAXIB8T4	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	3	62	66	N	N	It's better than Soul of the Fire...	I don't know quite what to make of this book overall, so I'll start simply by stating the following:  Goodkind's fantasies are about people, not worldbuilding.  He's made that clear both in and out of his novels.  However, even with that in mind, I don't know what to make of it when the main characters we've grown to know and love over the course of six massive novels don't even show up until the last fifty pages of the seventh, and then only as a segue into the eighth.  After getting over my initial shock, I was both pleased and disappointed with this work.<br />I'm glad that Goodkind had the guts to tell the story how he wanted to tell it, instead of catering to the fanboys.  He had a character that will clearly be a very important part of the rest of the series (now contracted through Book 10), knew he couldn't tell her story merely in flashbacks, and so gave her a whole novel.  Unfortunately, her story just wasn't terribly compelling.  Like all of Goodkind's novels, this was a quick read, but many of the chapters seemed pretty inconsequential, or possibly too sequential, just an excuse to get the characters from point A to point B.<br />As I've said, this book focusses on new characters.  The main character, Jennsen, is likeable and easy to feel for.  Unfortunately, the same is not true for this book's main antagonist.  Not only is he so utterly inhuman that I couldn't connect with him at all, but Goodkind seemed, as is too often the case, to downplay the power of others in a attempt to make him more powerful.<br />Over the course of this story, we run into Zedd, Nathan, Adie, and other familiar characters...but never for long, and none of the scenes show the wit of their characters.  Indeed, while many of the characters are interesting, they mostly also happen to be boring.  And then when we finally get back to Richard, Kahlan, and Cara, we are given a brief and unsatisfactory resolution, a few cryptic words about some new problem which will undoubtedly be madeclear in Book 8, and a new Wizard's Rule which delivery frankly sucked.<br />So why did I give this book even three stars?  Because, despite its flaws, it was a quick, fun read, and I was able to keep in mind that this is a transitionary novel.  I think I would honestly have been able to tack another star on, though, if it had not been advertised as a Sword of Truth novel (the words aren't even in the book), and if Richard and Kahlan hadn't figured into the cover blurb.  As it was, however, I felt that the publishers were trying to trick me into buying a book I would have been perfectly happy to buy anyway.	2001-11-26
US	52437038	R2VOZBEI3BPPPB	034542848X	87344379	Star By Star (Star Wars: New Jedi Order)	Books	5	41	47	N	N	Quite simply the best epic SW novel yet!	According to fellow NJO author R.A. Salvatore, one of Troy Denning's strengths is that he &quot;can tell a BIG story, keeping control of all the side details, as well as anyone.&quot;  And he's right.  Star by Star is one of the three biggest SW novels ever, perhaps THE biggest, and it is also, quite simply, the best.  Star by Star, marking the beginning of the third year of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, is an important novel in the New Jedi Order arc in that it's the centerpiece of the series.  This book doesn't center on any one character, but instead gives all the main characters (The movie characters, Mara, the Solo twins) approximately equal time.  He gets all the characters in character, except for one, but more on that later.<br />Before I continue this review, I think that something needs to be cleared up.  Yes, there is a major death in this book.  Yes, it is sad.  What people don't seem to understand, though, is that Denning didn't arbitrarily decide to kill this character, any more than Salvatore arbitrarily decided to kill Chewbacca.  The New Jedi Order series is something new in Star Wars literature - a story arc.  The major plot points are planned and decided, by a committee of authors and editors, well in advance of the writing of the individual novels.  The reason this character was so built up in previous books was so that, like the death or hate it, the audience would care, would feel the impact. The death was not randomly thrown in as \\"shock value\\" or to piss off the fans.  They are trying to show that this is war, and in war, people die, especially those who undertake suicidal missions.  I applaud the NJO creative team for not shying away from such a move.<br />As to the characters and situations, I was very pleasantly surprised.  Both sides of the conflict showed remarkable innovation in tactics and technology that had been, for the most part, sadly lacking in many of the previous books.  The political scenes were some of the strongest I have readin a Star Wars novel - in fact, Borsk's first scene in this book is one of my new favorites.  For the first time, and perhaps the last time, we actually get inside Borsk's head - and you might actually like what you find there.  Unfortunately, he is the one character who was slightly out of character, but I loved him all the more for it.  Lando, who's been neglected in the New Jedi Order series, is back in best form, as is the enigmatic but interesting Vergere, Danni Quee, Ganner, and many other old faces.  The Yuuzhan Vong characters are getting better fleshed out then ever - I even found myself feeling for Tsavong Lah at times.  The Jedi enter the fray with some finality, and the space battles were on a magnitude never before seen in Star Wars...simply amazing.<br />Despite all that this novel has going for it, there are a few flaws.  The Voxyn, the new Yuuzhan Vong creations, were obviously more than a little influenced by the Aliens from the film of the same name, and several scenes from the book felt right out of that film.  However, to balance that out with have the YVH droids...but enough on that.  All I can say is...READ THE BOOK.  And don't lose heart...I know it's dark, but this is only the middle of this saga of the New Jedi Order.  Great job Troy!	2001-11-16
US	52437038	R28HKYQ7B26JIT	0061057940	245737919	The Rift	Books	4	4	4	N	N	In the tradition of The Stand and Swan Song...	An earthquake, measuring 8.9 on the Richter scale, occurs along the New Madrid fault and destroys America's heartland. Chaos ensues as no one is prepared for this incident - after all, everyone knows that earthquakes only happen in California and Japan. As the Mississippi and surrounding waters flood and cities are destroyed, this novel follows the lives of several individuals, among them the President, trying to deal with the crisis, a technician working to prevent a nuclear meltdown at his power station, and a black man and a white boy, thrown together by circumstance, who find themselves drifting down the bloated river in an eerie perversion of a similar voyage by Huckleberry Finn. <br />The Rift was a huge and excellent novel. Often compared in reviews to Stephen King's The Stand and Robert McCammon's Swan Song, there is one vital difference between those post-apocalyptic thrillers and this one: The Rift is terrifyingly real. Not only has Williams clearly done an outstanding amount of research on the nature of earthquakes and the geology of the United States, but he also shows a keen eye for the politics and people of the region about which he is writing. And perhaps even more terrifying than the vivid and striking descriptions of the quakes themselves is the fact that there is precedent - an earthquake did indeed strike the New Madrid fault in 1811, and could very well do so again. <br />Aside from the technical excellence of this tale, the author gives us a large cast of believable and interesting characters: religious fanatics convinced that the quakes signify the coming of the Apocalypse and Klansmen who use the opportunity to exact some &quot;racial revenge.&quot; We see families torn apart and new friends made, people who keep their cool under pressure and people who lose it. And, keeping things realistic, the author doesn't hesitate to kill off characters, so the reader can never be quite sure of the outcome, but nor does he blatantly and uselessly kill them off just to keep the reader on his toes.  It's a delicate balance and well handled here.   <br />Amongst all the relief efforts, rebuilding efforts, the chaos and everything, the author also confronts issues and situations that may not be immediately thought of by everyone: \\"The President stared, a new realization rolling through his mind. He had completely forgot that all this was going to have to be paid for.\\" Overall, The Rift is one of the best novels I've read in a long time: realistic, thought-provoking, memorable, at times terrifying and at other times heartrending, the author has managed to produce a large, exciting book. <br />As interesting as all the situations, all the characters, all the politics and geography are, the reason I gave this novel four stars rather than five is that it does stretch credibility, especially in that almost all of the main characters run across each other and interact with each other throughout the course of the book. Also, the ending is only quasi-happy, and I'm a sucker for a happy ending.	2001-10-04
US	52437038	RUL09IJSL0E5I	0743426908	625556247	Lord of the Clans (Warcraft, Book 2)	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Enjoyable but predictable	\\"Lord of the Clans,\\" the second WarCraft novel (third if you count the eBook), is yet another worthy addition to the series.  Taking place over a number of years, it takes place after \\"Day of the Dragon\\" and before \\"Of Blood and Honor.\\"  Basically, this book is just an adaptation of the cancelled adventure game of the same title that was in the works at Blizzard a couple of years ago.  While Christie Golden doesn't have as fluid or readable a writing style as Richard Knaak, this book still flows very nicely, as it has a much smaller focus.  Unfortunately, the story itself is very familiar - the outcast, in this case an orc, raised among humans as a slave and fighter, finds freedom, tries to fit in with his own people, and ends up, of course, excelling beyond all expectations.<br />\\"Lord of the Clans\\" really has nothing to do with \\"Day of the Dragon,\\" but the direction this series of novels seems to be taking overall is that of a lead-in to the game \\"WarCraft III: Reign of Chaos,\\" in which it seems that the Orcs and Humans, if still not friendly, are at least fighting together against a common foe.  \\"Day of the Dragon\\" started out somewhat boring, with lots of expository writing, and served to introduce us to the various races of the Alliance at the end of the time of WarCraft II - namely Humans, Dwarves, and Elves.  By the time of the beginning of \\"Lord of the Clans,\\" the wars are over - the Orcs are essentially wiped out or being kept in large internment camps.  This novel is about an Orc named Thrall, raised by humans as a gladiator, who has also picked up some other human traits - mercy, tactical thinking, and has also managed to pick up on the nobility of the Orcish clans before they were united by the evil Gul'Dan into the Horde.  Thrall, once he gains freedom, begins a quest to find out who he is and ends up becoming...well, the title says it all.<br />This book gives us a fair amount of background on the Orcs, and is in fact very readable.  Aside from a glaring grammatical error right on the first page, I found very few typos, although this novel does suffer, though not as badly, from the same problem that plagued \\"Day of the Dragon\\" - how hard would it be for them to copy a map from an old WarCraft manual and stick it in the front of the novel?<br />Overall, this book isn't technically as good as \\"Day of the Dragon,\\" but it's very readable, and the relationships don't seem quite as forced in this book as in the previous one.  J.R.R. Tolkein it's not, but \\"Lord of the Clans\\" is an engaging and entertaining fantasy novel in its own right, setting down an important chapter in the history of the World of WarCraft.	2001-10-03
US	52437038	R29WPXYC8HHX8R	0451197410	52230657	How Stella Got Her Groove Back	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Stella's voice stays with you longer than book does	While the book is quick summer reading, Stella's voice resonates in your head for days after reading it.  I still find myself thinking thoughts in words and phrases that Stella would have used.  While I did not like her character - who seemed insecured and angrier than needed - her way of speaking grew on me and I was enchanted by her run-on thoughts and streams of consciousness.  Wonderful job, Terry!	2001-07-10
US	52437038	R10BSEDFT1GOGH	0380977338	622869821	I Wish I Had a Red Dress	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Nowhere Near Crazy On An Ordinary Day. . .	This book, while attempting to continue where What Looks Like Crazy. . .left off, did not succeed.  For convenience rather than literary purposes, Cleage abrubptly left out Ava and Eddie -- the main characters from the first novel about Idlewood.  She also left out any mention of Frankie, Imani and the path that was taken to lead to where Joyce now stands when this new novel starts off.  While this may be convenient for readers who have not had the pleasure of the first book, it leaves you with less or an understanding and appreciation for the depth of the characters. Also, Joyce was not nearly as entertaining a voice as Ava was -- she lacks the humor and is more difficult to relate to seeing as her character is more set in stone and one dimensional.  The book could have used more character development and depth, which would have happened had Cleage been striving not to equal What Looks Like Crazy. . . in style rather than in sales.	2001-07-10
US	52437038	R16KS0MS2Q98KR	0345442202	634000663	The Essential Guide to Alien Species (Star Wars)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	At long last, a visual guide to the aliens of the EU...	It is about time that this essential guide came out!  This is the one I think I have been waiting for the longest (except maybe the Essential Chronology).  Most of the time I could care less about the history of Droids or Weapons, but the aliens of the Star Wars universe have always been of interest to me.  Finally, here they are in this essential guide.  This book was apparently \\"written\\" in-universe by Shi'ido anthropologist Hoole - yes, the same Hoole who wrote an entry for the Illustrated Star Wars Universe, and the same Hoole who was a character in the Galaxy of Fear novels.  So what do you get?<br />For each of more than 100 species, you get at least one full page.  There is an illustration of a member of the species, a little box giving the planet of origin, average height, and whether or not it is sentient.  Then there is a bunch of text outlining the culture and history of the species, and finally a little in-universe anecdote, usually in the form of a journal entry, from someone who has had contact with members of that species.  Then, for a bunch of other species that were not important enough to merit a full page, there is an appendix of \\"other notable species\\" which each get around a paragraph.<br />Granted, there are a few illustrations that look a little...off, and a couple that do not correspond with previous illustrations of that species, but overall the art is really good.  In fact, that's what I use this book for - visual reference.  The notes are nifty, but I got it for the pictures.  In addition, there is a long awaited pronunciation guide at the end - THANK YOU!  This book covers everything from the common species, to the Chiss, the Yuuzhan Vong, Falleen, even such obscure species as the \\"Assemblers,\\" of which Ku'dar Mu'bat from the Bounty Hunter Wars was a member.<br />Definitely buy this book if you like Star Wars.  Highly Recommended.	2001-04-03
US	52437038	R3I5ZU42GTCCHJ	0345428641	501288398	Edge of Victory 1:  Conquest (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A new kind of Jedi...	`Conquest' is the shortest novel in the New Jedi Order line thus far, but don't let that discourage you - it's also in many important ways one of the best.  Like `Hero's Trial' before it, `Conquest' follows only one character, Anakin this time, through the bulk of the book.  Though it is short, this entry reveals more to us about the Vong as a people, as a culture, than any three novels before it.  In addition, it's nice finally to see a New Jedi Order novel that actually focuses on the Jedi.  Greg Keyes certainly isn't the best author who's been inducted into the Star Wars fold recently, but he definitely *is* one of the most engaging.  At times, Keyes' style seemed a little \\"fan fiction-ish\\" rather than \\"profic.\\" The sentence structure and word choice sometimes just didn't feel professional, but that is easily overlooked because it didn't detract from the novel, it was just different.<br />The plot is straightforward: Several months after Yuuzhan Vong Warmaster Tsavong Lah's offering to end the invasion if all the Jedi are turned over to him, the Peace Brigade, as well as planetfuls of desperate people near the path of the invasion route, are out hunting Jedi - pretty much completely unhindered by the New Republic government.  Because of this, the schism that has been growing between the Jedi deepens drastically.  Figuring that Yavin IV, home of the Jedi Academy, will be a Vong target, Luke sends Karrde to evacuate the trainees, but Anakin knows he won't get there in time, and rushes off, against Luke's direct orders, to help his friends.  He arrives in the Yavin system to find that Karrde has not yet arrived, but the Peace Brigade has.  Thus begins Anakin's trials and tribulations, which will last the rest of the book.  As his quest continues, Anakin teams up with a renegade Yuuzhan Vong, a \\"Shamed One\\" who has apparently lost the favor of \\"gods and family\\" (although he quite vehemently denies it), through whom the young Jedi really begins to understand what theRepublic is dealing with.  Meanwhile, Tahiri, Anakin's best friend, has been captured by the Vong and is being brainwashed by members of their \\"Shaper\\" caste who want not only to understand what the Force is, but also want to have their own, Vong, Force-user.<br />Previously, many Star Wars fans have complained that the New Jedi Order sequence has been to dark, too gruesome for their tastes.  Despair not!, for `Conquest' is much more upbeat both in terms of tone, style, and content.  There is a little Vong brutality, but it mostly happens off-camera, and what is shown is handled tastefully, not in the over-the-top manner which we have seen so often previously.  As I said earlier, Keyes is a very engaging author, with an easy-to-read style that allows you to fall right into the book.  The action and suspense are gripping, but instead of following the move-by-move descriptive formula favored by R.A. Salvatore and Michael Stackpole, Keyes tended to focus on what the characters involved with the action were thinking and going through.  In many ways the style of this novel would feel more at home in the Bantam or Young Jedi Knights series than in the New Jedi Order.<br />In fact, character is what Keyes seems to do best.  Luke, Mara, and Borsk all acted (or didn't act, as the case may be) in character, although sometimes their dialogue didn't sound quite right, but all the other characters were perfectly portrayed.  And there were quite a few characters, mostly Jedi and others hailing from the Young Jedi Knights and Junior Jedi Knights lines of YA novels.  The twins, Anakin, his best friend Tahiri, and others were all perfectly on-target in terms of characterization and attitude, and some previously unremarkable characters, such as diminutive Jedi Master Ikrit and Dorsk 82, were completely salvaged.  In addition, look for a cameo by Corran Horn.<br />As I have noted, this is an \\"Anakin novel,\\" in much the same way that `Balance Point' was a \\"Jacen novel.\\"  In fact, in many ways this book feels more like a follow-up to `Balance Point' than it does a prelude to the events of the next novel, `Rebirth.'  In BP, Jacen essentially went on a journey of self-discovery, and while at it he learned much about the nature and balance of the Force.  `Conquest' builds on that, and complements it.  Here, Anakin, while working to help his fellow Jedi, also \\"finds himself,\\" and through his interaction with the Yuuzhan Vong begins to understand them, their actions, and their place in the Force.  <br />Yet although this is very much a character-driven novel, there is plenty of action in this book.  Anakin starts the novel with the highest Vong hand-to-hand kill count, and that number rises drastically over the course of this novel.  We get to see various offensive and defensive measures of the Force, some of which we have seen previously and some of which we have not, but all of which are quite interesting.  As well as ground combat, there are plenty of aerial and space-born skirmishes and battles to keep even the most impatient of readers happy.  And if Anakin learns a lot about the Vong, we as readers learn a whole lot more through the eyes of one of their Shapers.\\"<br />On the down side, Lando still has not showed up, and also notably absent are Han and Leia.  Overall, Keyes is an extremely entertaining author with a fun style and a good grip of the Star Wars universe and the characters he was dealing with.  This book was tight, fun, suspenseful, and very rereadable.  Although 'Conquest' is not quite as good as `Hero's Trial' or `Balance Point,' it's a far cry above the abysmal `Ruin' or the less-than-great `Jedi Eclipse.'  I can't wait for the next book.  Definitely buy this one, even (or especially) if you have been feeling skeptical about the direction this series is taking overall.	2001-04-03
US	52437038	R267FCEJX3AL3D	0671041525	895901061	Day of the Dragon (WarCraft, Book 1) (No.1)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Sors immanis et inanis, rota tu volubilis...	I am pleased to say, and surprised to find myself saying, that Day of the Dragon far exceeded my expectations in nearly every way.  I was skeptical when I picked this novel up off the shelf - I expected typical fantasy series fluff, meaning mediocre writing, little plot, and adequate characters.  However, the world of WarCraft has been well and lovingly developed by Blizzard since day one, so there was an abundance of backstory to draw on - and draw on it Knaak did.  As has been noted by other reviewers, this story starts a little slowly and overwhelmingly simply because of the sheer amount of backstory dumped on the reader.  Fortunately, this information is buffered by a much more complex plot than I would have had expected, engaging characters, and solid if not exactly evocative writing.<br />Picking up sometime not too long after the events of the game WarCraft II (you certainly need not have played the game to understand the book, but having played it sure adds some depth to this novel), the Orcs have pretty much been beaten.  Most of them are held in internment camps, but those still holding their conquered lands are fighting every step of their retreat.  Their one true asset is the Dragonqueen, a dragon that they captured during the war, and have been breeding for dragons with which to terrorize their human, elven, and dwarven enemies.  Enter Rhonin.  A maverick Mage, he has been an outcast since his last mission ended in disaster.  He is sent on a quest to observe the Orcs' movements by the Magi council, and on an additional, secret quest by one of the head Mages - to free the Dragonqueen, thus ending the Orcs' airborne reign of terror (and in the process redeeming his own failure and allowing him to regain a position with the Magi).  Meanwhile, a mysterious nobleman, Lord Prestor, plays the leaders of the Lordaeron Alliance like instruments, bending them to his will and having himself named heir to the Lordaeron throne.  Moreover, and perhaps worst of all, chaos-loving Black Dragon DeathWing is up to something, which can only mean no good for the forces of humanity.  As all of this ties together, we get a solid novel with good character development, great suspense, and a slam-bang climax.<br />I had only two qualms with this novel.  One was the lack of any sort of cartographic assistance.  In the WarCraft II manual there was a perfectly good map - one to which I found myself constantly referring to figure out exactly where various events were taking place.  It would have been a simple matter simply to include the map in the front of the book.  My second problem is humor.  Though the WarCraft games told a serious story, the games themselves were loaded with humor, none of which makes its way through to this book.  It would have been a nice touch just to hear a character spontaneously shouting, \\"Stop poking MEEEE!\\"  Make that three qualms.  I thought that the obvious and almost obligatory love emerging between Rhonin and Vereesa was not handled well.  It seemed more like a lust/duty relationship than any kind of true love.<br />This book paves the way for the canceled-game-cum-upcoming-novel Lord of the Clans, and has a whole bunch of hints and foreshadowing towards the forthcoming game WarCraft III.  Overall, I'd say Richard Knaak has interpreted the world of WarCraft perfectly, with the result being a surprisingly good, engaging, and interesting fantasy adventure novel.  Hopefully the next novel in the series will be this good.  Recommended.	2001-03-22
US	52437038	R1AXT7K7DI4ZWE	0312867417	8432795	Wizardborn (The Runelords, Book 3)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Well, it�s officially not a trilogy	Normally when I get the newest book in a series, I re-read the previous books just to refresh my memory and get in the proper mood.  With Wizardborn, the third book of The Runelords, I skipped that step in my desire to read it.  You see, I really, really enjoyed the first two volumes of this series, and I must admit that at first glance this one appeared somewhat disappointing.  It looked a lot thinner than the previous volumes, and the cover was not great.  But the slenderness of the book, it turned out, was due to thin paper and not low page count, and realizing this I set to on what fortunately turned out to be another great jaunt through Farland's world.<br />Admittedly, this book does take a very different approach than the first two books.  In Book 1, Raj Ahten was the threat to the world, and there was lots of cool action.  In Book 2, it was revealed that the *real* threat was the Reavers, and Raj Ahten merely a superpowered inconvenience.  Again, there was lots of action punctuated by great battles.  In this third book of the series, however, the focus is more on character and plot development rather than moving forward substantially in the story.  Taking place over the course of two days, Wizardborn lacks the urgency and immediacy of Runelords, and the scale of Brotherhood of the Wolf.  Gaborn, with his army, is chasing the surviving Reavers from Carris, while Raj Ahten is headed south to save his people from another huge Reaver attack.  Borenson, coping with his new status of eunuch, resumes his quest to find Daylan Hammer, the Sum of All Men, but is now joined by his wife Myrrima.  Averan finds out that that she is an Earth Warden, and apprentices herself to Binnesman, but her ability to eat Reaver brains and learn from them turns out to be essential to Gaborn's quest to stop the beasts.<br />As I have noted already, the focus of this novel is more on character than action.  There is one major battle even bigger than any we have seen before, but it servesmore as a conduit to explore Raj Ahten's character than as a battle scene.  In addition, there are several skirmishes with the retreating Reavers, who are devising tactics for better killing humans.  There are several revelations, or possible revelations, in this book about the nature of the Days, but those thoughts do not really go anywhere.  However, there is a lot more humor than in previous volumes, especially concerning Borenson and his \\"walnuts.\\"  There is also a potentially extremely interesting new character, Baron Waggit, a halfwit who, after distinguishing himself in battle, is given an endowment of wit so that he is just like a normal man.  On the down side, there is very little in this book about Foul Deliverer, Fair Destroyer (or Spring).  As a previous reviewer noted, the Reavers are not just monsters anymore - they are now significant characters in their own rights, with motivations and feelings.  The elemental of the Darkling Glory from the previous book is back, and we find out that it was a really big player in the netherworld, an elemental that has helped in the downfall of various other worlds.  In this volume, to put it simply, the plot thickens, disparate elements start to connect, and the end begins.  Moreover, by the end of the book, there was no doubt in my mind that Raj Ahten's final showdown would be against Myrrima, not Gaborn as I had thought through books one and two.  Read and find out.<br />According to Gaborn's predictions, and assuming the author keeps going at two days per novel, this series should not last more than 2-3 more books.  This book, while not quite as intense as the previous volumes, is a very good addition adding lots of characters, situations, and original ideas to the mix.  Definitely worth reading, despite the typical cover art.	2001-03-11
US	52437038	R1UL5VH12D12S6	0439139325	721389181	The Dangerous Rescue (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Nothing we haven't seen before (3.5 stars)	Dangerous Rescue concludes the story begun in The Deadly Hunter and The Evil Experiment.  It starts with Qui-Gon being held captive by mad scientist character Jenna Zan Arbor, and Obi-Wan teaming up again with Jedi Adi Gallia and her apprentice Siri.  This book, like all the others in the series, is well written and a fast read.  The prose is fluid and nice.  But sadly, the story is lacking.  There's nothing here that hasn't been done already, and better, in the previous Jedi Apprentice novels.  The themes dealing with Master/Padawan loyalty, as well as with honesty and devotion, were all dealt with early on in the series.  The lightsaber fights in this book lack the intensity of those in the previous couple, and the &quot;problem solving&quot; and detective skills also seem basic compared to previous books by Watson.  And of course there are the bumbling idiot allies as well.  The reason I even gave this book three stars is that withing the context of its trilogy, this book is very good -- it's only when compared to the ten earlier books that it doesn't.  Overall this is an adequate but not great edition to the Jedi Apprentice series.  Hopefully the author will break some new ground in the next volume, the &quot;Special Edition.&quot;	2001-03-11
US	52437038	R2U0RLFX820H0V	1569715149	354227263	Star Wars: Outlander	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Conehead Strikes Back	`Outlander,' the second story of the ongoing Star Wars series, resumes Ki-Adi-Mundi's tale shortly after the events of `The Phantom Menace.'  Outlander is one of the best of the ongoing stories so far, second, in my opinion, only to `Twilight.'  Tim Truman's writing is outstanding, and the plot moves at a brisk clip, with an interesting backstory revealed and many interesting characters introduced.  The comic isn't without flaws, but it manages to more than hold its own even with them.<br />On Tatooine, the Tusken Raiders have been mobilized and organized as never before under a new war chief, known to the locals as \\"ootman,\\" which is Huttese for outlander, and feared by the locals as a demon.  The Tuskens have been raiding settlements and killing people for no apparent reason.  When news reaches the Jedi Council on Coruscant, it is found out that this mysterious new war chief is none other than the Jedi Sharad Hett, presumed dead more than fifteen years ago.  Because all the other members of the Jedi Council have personal connection with Hett, Ki is chosen to return to Tatooine and determine Sharad's standing.  If the Jedi still follows the light side of the Force, Ki is to convince him to return to Coruscant to help deal with the new Sith threat, but if he's fallen to the dark side, Ki is to kill him.<br />What follows is a fast paced adventure on Tatooine with lots of familiar faces.  Returning is Aurra Sing, the bounty huntress who appeared for about three seconds in `The Phantom Menace' and has since developed a huge fan following.  Tim Truman practically invented her character - he had previously written the Aurra Sing portion of the Bounty Hunters comic, and has also written the upcoming `The Hunt for Aurra Sing' comic.  Besides Aurra, we get to see Jabba, Gardulla, and all of their lackeys, and on Coruscant we meet the Dark Woman again.  The writing as I've noticed is terrific, but the art is another matter.  In this six-issue comic series, there are at least four different art teams, each with a distinctly different style, which makes it sometimes awkward going from issue to issue.  I liked the art on four of the comics, but the other two didn't thrill me.  In addition, for the first two issues only, Ki is somewhat out of character.  For some reason he seems very bitter, sarcastic, undiplomatic and somewhat mean.  He grows back into character as the story progresses, though.  On the up side, there are some good head jokes aimed at the Cerean.  :) In this comic we get to see Aurra Sing in action, some good old convoluted wheels-within-wheels Hutt business ethics, lost of deception, and some cool new characters.<br />Overall, this is a fantastic story, two-thirds of which is well illustrated.  An excellent addition to your Star Wars library.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-19
US	52437038	R1Y6XS4Q11EH3W	1569714487	854153315	Star Wars: Prelude to Rebellion	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Return of the Conehead	`Prelude to Rebellion' is the first story-arc of Dark Horse's ongoing Star Wars series.  This book introduces us to Jedi Knight Ki-Adi-Mundi (the conehead on the Jedi Council in `The Phantom Menace'), before he's been raised to the Council.  It is an interesting story of political intrigue, corrupt Republican senators, the criminal underworld, and the trials of a Jedi.  It is fairly well illustrated, and quite well written too.<br />In the days before The Phantom Menace, the Republic is trying to convince Ki's backwater homeworld of Cerea to become a member.  The elders of the planet, including Ki, do not want this change - they like the peaceful, beautiful, idyllic nature of their world.  But the youth, of course, see the fancy offworlder technology, and they want it.  When Ki's daughter's boyfriend accidentally kills another, the boy goes into hiding in one of the Republic's \\"Outsider Citadels\\" on Cerea to hide from local justice.  There, Ki's daughter and several of her friends are \\"befriended\\" by Ephant Mon, an associate of Jabba the Hutt, and proceed to get into even more trouble.  Ki finds himself having to track down his daughter, while dealing with domestic disputes and a world that's tearing itself apart.<br />As I've said, the art in this comic is pretty good --  while I've seen better, I've also seen much worse.  The writing and dialogue are fairly crafty and effective, and this book presents an interesting take on the Republics politics that I'd not considered before.  There is a fair amount of action - hand to hand, ship to ship, and some lightsaber slaying of some stupid creatures torn out of the movie `Aliens.'  Some of the scenes in this book came as close as a Star Wars comic ever has to tearjerker status (not that any has come *that* close).  We get to see a little of Ki's background, we are introduced to some semi-interesting new droids, and we finally see a human, fallible Jedi.  My biggest gripe about this book is that the beginning is too boring.  I often have tried to re-read this comic, only to be dissuaded within a few pages by the slow moving opening.  Unfortunately, this \\"collected edition\\" fails to collect the special online Issue #0, which had been promised by then-editor Peet Janes, a promise that was reneged because they didn't want to go to the trouble of reformatting it to fit the printed page.  :(<br />In addition to the main story, we get a mini-comic entitled `Vow of Justice.'  Originally included in the releases of the comics to take up some extra space, this short tells a bit about Ki's youth (which contradicts some of what we learned in the main story), and introduces us to a mysterious Jedi known only as the Dark Woman, a Jedi who we will see more of in future comics. <br />Overall, `Prelude to Rebellion' is a big, satisfying story.  Fun to read, and introducing various ideas and concepts to the Star Wars mythos, this is a good addition to your Star Wars library.  Recommended.	2001-02-19
US	52437038	RAG56J4BZB903	1569715424	554860429	Star Wars: Darth Maul	Books	3	20	21	N	N	&quot;Wipe them out...all of them&quot; (3.5 stars)	`Darth Maul,' just to set the record straight, takes place several months before Michael Reaves' novel `Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter,' and shortly after James Luceno's eBook `Darth Maul: Saboteur.'  While this comic is extremely impressive visually and fun to look at, in terms of plot and story it's severely lacking.  There is a minimum of dialogue; the focus is on Darth Maul's killing ability.<br />The plot is basic: Darth Sidious sends his apprentice Darth Maul on a mission to destroy the leadership and organization of vast, galaxy-spanning criminal syndicate Black Sun, in order to minimize the possibility of any interference with his plans.  Darth Maul, of course, being one to never disappoint or fail his master, embarks on his quest in his new Sith Infiltrator full of the goodies we saw in Episode I.<br />Even more so than most of Jan Duursema's work, this is an extremely visually impressive comic.  There are plenty of imposing images of Maul standing there looking impressive and frightening, and more fight scenes than in any other Star Wars comic I believe.  We get to see Maul go on killfests against tons of beings, as well as one on one fights with several others, including a Dathomiri Nightsister (one of the kind we saw in `Infinity's End,' not the breed from `Courtship of Princess Leia').  Unfortunately, although this book is great fun the first few times around, it loses re-readability because there is no real plot, and very little expository dialogue.  In addition, by the time the end comes around, the constant \\"Maul against many\\" fights are beginning to get quite boring and predictable.  To be fair, there were a few interesting scenes about the Sithly nature of the Force and how it compares to other Force users such as Jedi and Nightsisters, and there's a cool scene involving a telepath, but other than that it's just a bloodbath.  In addition, there are several tie-ins to the other Darth Maul products - we see Oolth, who will later show up in the Michael Reaves novel, and are introduced to Hath Monchar, who we see in both of the other Darth Maul books.  However, there is also one extremely unnecessary scene in this book which really doesn't fit the mood and detracted from my reading pleasure - a couple of pages with Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan that have nothing to do with the story.  I don't see why they were thrown in there, but it wasn't at all helpful to the \\"plot.\\"<br />Overall, this is a very well drawn comic with minimal plot.  If you are a \\"Mauloholic,\\" a Star Wars fan, or just like a good fight, this comic is for you, but if you don't read it, you're not really missing anything.	2001-02-18
US	52437038	RUMWGN5QVDPWZ	1569715394	290912230	Star Wars - Jedi Council: Acts of War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Finally -- Yoda in action!	`Jedi Council: Acts of War' is a very mixed bag, full of elements good and bad in terms of both artwork and story.  As such, it is also a comic about which I have very mixed feelings.  The story takes place roughly a year before the events of `The Phantom Menace', and probably shortly before the events of the eBook `Darth Maul: Saboteur.'  The art in this comic often has a very cartoonish quality, which I felt didn't mesh particularly well with the Star Wars setting, but the plot was fun if a little unbelievable and misguided.<br />In this story, Darth Sidious is taking steps to begin finalizing his plans to take over the galaxy.  Knowing that the Yinchorri are a violent race which, like Hutts and Toydarians, aren't subject to mind control with the Force, he coerces their intelligentsia caste into having the warrior caste start attacking a few settlements.  Sidious knows the Jedi will have no choice but to get involved, killing two birds with one stone - the Yinchorri will end up in no position to bother Sidious when he makes his move, and Jedi will die.  When a couple of Jedi who had been sent to investigate are killed, the Jedi Council organizes a team that will head to the Yinchorr system and find their headquarters, stopping the violence.  While the Jedi are thus occupied, Sidious has the Yinchorri lead an attack on the Jedi Temple itself, and things escalate from there.<br />The plot moves at a fair clip and the comic certainly never gets boring, but it is difficult at times to keep track of all the characters.  First, there are Sidious and Maul, who we see pretty much sitting around talking and scheming, and then their lackeys.  There are Mace Windu, Obi-Wan, and Qui-Gon who we all saw in the film, as well as the rest of the Jedi Council.  But there are also eight or nine new Jedi who are all major characters in this series who are brand new, and once you remember who's named what, the book is practically over.  The most important new character is Jedi MasterMicah Giett, Ki-Adi-Mundi's predecessor on the Jedi Council.  I personally found him obnoxious, unappealing, and just not a likeable character.  However, this comic does flesh out the various members of the Council some, and it shows us some camaraderie and coordination between the Jedi which we've only gotten a glimpse of before in the Ongoing series.<br />There is also a *lot* of action in this series.  Lightsaber fights, space battles, ambushes, all kinds of neat stuff.  While it's always clear what's going on, as I said before I am not very fond of the cartoonish quality of the art.  I also didn't care for the lightsaber art - they just didn't look right, they were too dull.  Other comics have handled them much better.  In addition, the Jedi and their Force abilities seemed inconsistent throughout the story.  One minute four Jedi are being overwhelmed by massive numbers of aggressors, fighting for all they're worth and barely holding their own, while a few pages number an equal number of Jedi facing equal odds are having no trouble holding off the attack simply using the Force.  It didn't make sense why they didn't just use the Force in the first place.  Speaking of Force use, we finally get to see Yoda in action, and let's just say the little guy doesn't *need* a lightsaber.<br />Overall, this is a fun, fast-paced Jedi adventure story, with an okay plot, bearable if not great art, and lots of fun, fast action.  Recommended.	2001-02-18
US	52437038	R33SNI836YHG29	1569715157	21555524	Star Wars: Chewbacca	Books	5	10	11	N	N	At last we have the mighty Chewbacca	`Chewbacca' is a collection of the four issue miniseries put out by Dark Horse Comics, and it is an excellent addition to the library of any Star Wars fan.  Basically, this book is a collection of short stories about previously unseen chapters in Chewie's life.  A different artist does each chapter, although Darko Macan writes the whole thing, usually very well.  The art tends to be very good, although obviously with nine different artists there will be some you like and some you don't.  <br />This book obviously takes place after Chewbacca's death in the novel `Vector Prime.'  The premise is that C-3PO and R2-D2 are putting together some sort of memorial for Chewbacca.  For one aspect of this, they are touring the galaxy, seeking out the family, friends, and others who knew Chewbacca and collecting stories and anecdotes about the Wookiee.  Some of the stories take us back to his pre-slavery days on Kashyyyk, and are related by family members.  Some stories are told by familiar faces such as Luke, Han, Leia, Lando, and Wedge.  And a couple are told by bounty hunters and slavers who have had...encounters with Chewbacca.  In this book, we see Chewbacca's first meeting with Han, as well as their last encounter on Sernpidal, and plenty of other events.<br />Some of the stories are humorous, some sad, and some fun.  Together, the stories in this book fill in gaps in Chewbacca's life and flesh out the big furball's character.  This is one of the few literary occasions we've had to actually see Chewbacca `speaking' and interacting with various others.  There was only one story which didn't really fit and wasn't necessary - the story of Mala Mala, the diminutive creature first introduced in Macan's `Vader's Quest' comic.  While the story did have Chewbacca in it, it felt out of place in that it was more of a backstory for this minor character than a tribute to the mighty Chewbacca.<br />In addition, this collected edition has an introduction by Peter Mayhew, the guy who played Chewbacca in the films.  Overall, this book is a fitting tribute to the fallen Wookiee, a must buy for any Star Wars fan.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-18
US	52437038	RR5L2ZD6LKFMD	1569710201	748774462	Knights of the Old Republic (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi, Volume One)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A good introduction	Knights of the Old Republic is the first story published in the Tales of the Jedi storyline.  Written by Tom Veitch, the guy who also did the Dark Empire comics, the characters and situations herein are pretty much taken from the backstory he created for his prior Star Wars jaunt.  Overall this is a pretty good comic, and it paves the path for what will be one of the most exciting epics in Dark Horse's Star Wars publishing run.  Knights of the Old Republic is not one story, but two that will tie together in later Tales of the Jedi books.  The art is a mixed bag (more on that later), but the stories told are vintage Star Wars.<br />The first chapter, `Ulic Qel-Droma and the Beast Wars of Onderon,' tells the story of several young Jedi given their first task by their Master - a diplomatic/peacekeeping mission to a world that is petitioning to join the Republic.  Ulic Qel-Droma is a rash, brash Jedi who despite his impulsiveness is a skilled Jedi and strong in the Force.  His companions are his brother Cay and the Twi'lek Tott Doneeta, neither of whom are as good with a lightsaber as Ulic, but both of whom are more cautious.  There are no real surprises in this story - there is of course the obligatory brush with the Dark Side and lots of fight scenes, but it does serve very well to introduce these characters, their skills and personalities.  Chris Gossett's art is very good here, but the coloring seems somewhat dull.<br />The second chapter, `The Saga of Nomi Sunrider,' is a much better story even if the art stinks.  Nomi is a Force-sensitive woman who is too timid to be a Jedi, although her husband, Andur, has followed that path.  While they are en route to deliver some adegan crystals to Andur's future master, some thugs who want the expensive crystals kill Andur.  Nomi, without thinking, takes Andur's lightsaber, kills the thugs, and then proceeds to deliver the crystals to Master Thon.  For months she is reluctant to learn the ways of the Force, and absolutely refuses to touch a lightsaber, but when the Hutt whose hoodlums she killed shows up looking for vengeance, she has no choice but to take up arms.  This story was much more enjoyable than Ulic's, and all around much better.  The art, however, is pretty weak and ugly.<br />While these stories are not terribly exciting as standalones, when looked at in the context of the rest of the series they are a worthy introductory chapter with lots of lightsaber fights, a few new Force techniques, brash students, wise masters, cruel enemies, and decent artwork.  Recommended.	2001-02-16
US	52437038	R18WST9OMLBDCB	0345288408	30885869	Han Solo's Revenge (Classic Star Wars)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	As good as the first...	Picking up not too long after Han Solo at Stars' End, maybe a couple of months later, Han Solo's Revenge continues Brian Daley's chronicles of some of Han Solo's more daring early exploits.  In this next volume of the Han Solo Adventures, the author continues to uphold the high standards set in the first book and gives us another rousing, fast-paced yarn set in the Star Wars Universe.  Han, Chewie, and the Falcon are all completely in character throughout the book, and in fact this is one of the few Star Wars novels ever to actually use Chewie for something other than a set piece.<br />Han and Chewie start this novel pretty much bankrupt, and so they take a shady job promising them 10,000 credits.  Unfortunately, things turn sour when the job turns out to be slave running, which carries with it an automatic and summary execution if caught.  Han manages to outwit the slavers and escape, but he figures he's still owed 10,000, and so he decides to head to his rendezvous and collect.  But when the Corporate Sector Authority gets involved, things start getting more dangerous.<br />While this book isn't quite as memorable as its immediate predecessor, it is in many ways a superior book.  First of all, it has more of a plot rather than just a mission that the characters are undertaking.  In addition, while there is not quite as much action in this installment as the previous one, there's a lot more dialogue and character development.  There's a character in this book who is amusingly and completely unintimidated by Chewbacca, and my favorite droid duo, Bollux &amp; Blue Max, returns as well.  Moreover, we get to see Chewie sing, we get the first ever swoop race, almost twenty years before Shadows of the Empire came along with that novel idea.  Chewie gets to go flying without benefit of a ship, Han gets to do a lot more seat-of-the-pants flying, and there are more, and more interesting, ancillary characters in this book than in Stars' End.  In addition, in this book Gallandro, a gunman with possibly an even quicker draw than Solo, is introduced.  There are pirate boardings, run-ins with various high-ranking individuals, great and innovative escape, you name it...<br />Overall, this is another more than worthy, if somewhat short, addition to the Star Wars mythos.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-10
US	52437038	R1QEFIRMMEUNW5	0345296648	696595075	Han Solo at Stars' End (Classic Star Wars)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	&quot;Inspiration is my specialty!&quot;	Han Solo at Stars' End was the third Star Wars novel ever published, after the original film novelization and Alan Dean Foster's lively Splinter of the Mind's Eye, and yet it remains today, nearly a quarter of a century later, one of the best pieces of Star Wars literature ever published.  This book is the first of a trilogy that has since come to be known as the Han Solo Adventures (not to be confused with A.C. Crispin's Han Solo Trilogy), which tell of some of Han Solo's greatest adventures in the years before A New Hope.  In these books, Brian Daley has really captured the essence and character of Han, Chewie, and the Falcon as they were at the start of the first film.<br />The plot of this book is fairly simple and straightforward.  After a run-in with the Corporate Sector Authority (basically the equivalent of the Empire in this sector of space), the Millennium Falcon needs some repairs, so Han heads to an \\"outlaw tech\\" base to get her fixed up.  When he arrives, he finds out that Doc, the head of the techs, has gone missing, and that the price of the Falcon's repairs will be to find and rescue him.  Along the way, Chewbacca too is captured, making the whole affair personal.<br />Brian Daley has really written an action-packed whopper of a Star Wars book here.  There are no subplots to bog down the pace of the book, no Luke and Leia to follow around on their own quests.  This is pure Han Solo adventure start to finish.  There are original and inspired firefights, sometimes in zero-G, and we get to see why Han has his reputation as an excellent pilot and a quick-draw marksman to be feared. There's a dogfight in here that puts to shame most of what Mike Stackpole has written, some unprecedented maneuvers with the Falcon, buildings getting blown off the face of planets (literally!), and several very interesting characters are introduced, including a fellow named Rekkon who I'd like to see more of someday.  Han and Chewie are always perfectly in character as well,and there is a droid duo introduced here that is even more unlikely, and - dare I say it? - at times even more amusing than Artoo and Threepio.<br />Brian Daley, in this and his other books has I believe done more for the Star Wars Universe than any other author since.  In this volume he introduced the Z-95 Headhunter, dinkos, the Fondor shipyards, several of Han's future friends, enemies, and companions, the Corporate Sector, and many themes and sequences that future Star Wars authors will attempt to emulate with varying degrees of success.<br />In Han Solo at Stars' End, Brian Daley has created a masterpiece.  Short but concise and relevant, this is one of the most fun, action-packed, and ultimately most satisfying Star Wars novels that I have read in a long time.	2001-02-10
US	52437038	R3O1OUJ6U4SO0	1569714924	863759822	Mandatory Retirement (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 9)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A powerhouse ending to an awesome series	Mandatory Retirement is the powerful conclusion to the \\"Rise to Isard\\" story arc as well as to the Rogue Squadron comic series of which that was part.  This is a strong series, and unique within the Rogue Squadron mythos.  While most RS stories are four issues, with the first setting up a conflict and the next three having the Rogues resolve it, in this story the whole first quarter is devoted to showing us the Rogues during some R&amp;R time.  They get to have fun, go swimming, relax, dance, and develop their relationships.  The whole story is then told in the next three comics.  The art in this series is very good, much better and much more in style than the previous two Rogue Squadron stories, and the dialogue is really good too, although there isn't as much humorous banter as we're used to.  There's also just as much action as you'd expect from an X-wing story, as well as plenty of Isard's manipulations and a healthy reminder of why we came to hate the Empire in the first place.<br />The plot is that Sate Pestage has been caught in the act of selling out to the Rebels, and so three of the most powerful Generals in the cabal of Imperial leaders have formed a tribunal which assumes control of the Empire, and they decide they want Pestage.  Pestage, however, has paid off Leonia Tavira to get him to a world loyal to him, where the Rebels will attempt to rescue him for political reasons.  Tavira, however, then sells out Pestage's location to Isard and the Imperials, and when an Imperial fleet shows up, things start to get ugly for the Rogues.<br />This is a good story for several reasons.  Besides the good art, which I have already mentioned, there are a good number of characters here.  Besides the Rogues, both General Salm's wing of Y-wings and Kapp Dendo's commandos return, as does Mirax Terrik and the Pulsar Skate.  In addition, we have Isard, Tavira, and Admiral Krennel on the Imperial side.  We also get to see, for the first time, the New Republic's ProvisionalCouncil, and all the attendant bickering and politicking.  Tension in the ranks because of Fel's recent loyalty re-emerges here, an issue about which I complained in my review of \\"Masquerade.\\"  The relationships between various Rogues continue to develop, though there are sacrifices here as well.  It's fun to see Isard removing her competition and securing her place at the head of the Empire, and we also get to see how Krennel, who later appears in the novel Isard's Revenge, gets so wealthy and powerful.  Moreover, we get to hear Wedge give a sentimental speech.  Plus, with John Travolta on the cover, what can go wrong?<br />This is an exceptionally good Rogue Squadron story and a fitting end to the series.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-10
US	52437038	R2CMC203W7CI09	1569713839	774729045	In the Empire's Service (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 6)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Classic Rogue Squadron Comic	In The Empire's Service is the sixth Rogue Squadron comic series, and it happens to be one of the, if not the, best.  Taking place not long after the comic &quot;Mara Jade: By The Emperor's Hand,&quot; this is the first title in the &quot;Rise of Isard&quot; story arc which will link all of the remaining comics in this series, and lead into the novel series.  And it is just a great and classic story.  No more of those stories where the Empire is thrown in only as a convoluted plot twist, where various rogues and scoundrels uncover secret caches of Imperial ships and weaponry.  This is a straight up Alliance vs. Empire story.  It's full of good art, good dialogue, a plethora of dogfights, and lots of humor.<br />In this story, Sate Pestage has basically assumed Palpatine's role at the head of the Empire, and is struggling to hold it while an alliance of various other high ranking Imperials (the \\"Cabal\\") is also seeking to gain control of the Empire.  Enter Ysanne \\"Iceheart\\" Isard, who, while presumably advising both sides as to the best way to defeat the Rebels is actually expertly playing them off against each other.  Taking her advice, Pestage vows to hold a wealthy Imperial world, which the rebels promptly start planning to liberate.  Thus begins the power struggle between Pestage, the Cabal, and the Rebel Alliance on Brentaal.<br />As I've said, this comic has an awesome number of dogfights, and it introduces several new Rogues to make up for attrition in the last comic.  In addition, it introduces Salm and his wing of Y-wings, as well as Imperial fighter legend Baron Fel and his feared 181st Fighter Group, which is basically the Imperial equivalent of Rogue Squadron.  Also, Kapp Dendo and his SpecOps squad show up again.  The art is nice and easy to follow, and the pilot chatter is good as always.  Unfortunately, Baron Fel is somewhat stiff, starting as just a perfect superpilot, but he does evolve into a more human character by the end of the series.  Also, whyis Plourr still with the Rogues?  Wasn't her return at the end of the previous comic just a very temporary reprieve from her duties on Eiattu?<br />Just as a note of interest, you'll notice that the main battle in this comic was adapted as one of the levels in the Rogue Squadron 3D game for PC and N64.  <br />Overall, this is an excellent comic, one of the best Rogue Squadron stories out there.  Definitely and highly recommended.	2001-02-09
US	52437038	RH3IJTCQ78Q8Z	1569713871	392062528	Blood and Honor (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 7)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wow, and Bow-Wow	Blood and Honor, the follow-up story to \\"In the Empire's Service,\\" is comprised actually of two stories, not just one.  The first, \\"The Making of Baron Fel,\\" is quite possibly the best X-wing comic ever.  It was released on the stands as a special 48-page issue, and is quite outstanding.  The second story is the 2-issue \\"Family Ties,\\" which often vies for a position as the worst of the Rogue Squadron stories.  Although these stories conclude some of the plots from the previous comic, they incidentally also pretty much completely drop the \\"Rise of Isard\\" story, leaving that to continue in the next Rogue Squadron story.<br />The Making of Baron Fel is simply an outstanding comic.  Basically it is, as the cover implies, the life story of the Empire's greatest pilot.  It is told by Fel as he sits in a Rebel interrogation room, and really takes the guy from \\"Imperial pilot extraordinaire\\" to one of the most sympathetic characters to show up in the Star Wars mythos.  The art suits the story perfectly, and we get to see a ton of familiar faces.  There are cameos by Isard, Derricote, Thrawn, and Hal Horn, as well as a bunch of Rebels before they defected from the Empire.  This comic also gives us a good look at how truly corrupted the Empire was, and why so many people were so willing to serve under it.  There are also several surprises, including the identity of Fel's wife, as well as Fel's offer to the Rebels.  This comic alone is worth the cover price of Blood and Honor.<br />Unfortunately, Family Ties does not fare so well.  Janson, Hobbie and Plourr (shouldn't she be back on Eiattu by now?) go on a mission to Corellia to ensure the safety of Baron Fel's family.  Along the way they bump into a few familiar faces (including Corran Horn and Iella Wessiri in their CorSec days, as well as their Imperial liaison and nemesis, Kirtan Loor), as well as a few old enemies of Fel's.  I didn't mind the art style, except that the characters were changed.  Plourr was never before a buxom, spandex-wearing type, and Horn's X-wing as well as Horn himself and several other characters were also somewhat butchered.  There were a couple funny running jokes, but no particularly wonderful dialogue, and there was only one space battle, thrown in at the end almost obligatorily, and then only to show off Corran's skills in a fighter so that the Rogue could make some jokes about how he'd never be a Rogue.<br />The Making of Baron Fel was exceedingly good and definitely worth reading.  Family Ties was not.  I definitely recommend this comic for the one, if not the other.	2001-02-09
US	52437038	REMRDB4KQZWGN	1569714878	817975603	Masquerade (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 8)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The best of times, the worst of times (3.5 stars)	Masquerade is the third Rogue Squadron story set in the \\"Rise of Isard\\" story arc.  Picking up shortly after Blood and Honor, Masquerade at times epitomizes the best aspects of the Rogue Squadron comics, and yet at other times is just silly, pointless, and forgettable.  The art, for one thing, is nothing to cheer for.  It is very cartoonish, and the characters really don't look anything like their counterparts in the movies or the other X-wing comics.  Hairstyles are different, facial hair is different, characters' builds are different.  Still, there is lots of good dialogue, plenty of action, and many familiar faces including Han, Chewie, Leia, and Winter.<br />The story is pretty much that Sate Pestage is fast falling out of power with the Imperial Cabal, and so he organizes a secret meeting with Leia on Axxila to negotiate terms of surrender.  Meanwhile, Winter, masquerading as Leia, travels to Eiattu with Han and some of the Rogues for a meeting of some sort.  Pirates, acting under Leonia Tavira, kidnap Winter thinking they've got the real Princess, and take her to Tavira's secret headquarters on - you guessed it - Axxila.  Thus begins the search and rescue mission for Winter, since the Rebels need it to seem that she's really Leia.<br />The story is fun.  Tycho and Winter get back together, there is lots of classic dialogue, some fun space battles, and old friends as well as old enemies are reintroduced.  Plourr finally returns to Eiattu, Isard is portrayed well, and all around most of that is developed nicely.  However, as I've said, the artwork leaves something to be desired.  In addition, all of the animosity towards Colonel Fel that was so apparent in the previous issue seems to have just disappeared.  Now he's just one of the guys, getting along with everyone.  There is some conversation with Han about what it's like changing sides, but I would have liked to have seen more tension there.  There is quite a bit of fantastic dialogue in this issue.  One moreissue I have is the \\"Uglies.\\"  An Ugly is a concept introduced in the novels - it's a starfighter scraped together of various pieces of other starfighters, and is commonly used by pirates.  I like that the concept caught on in the comic, except that every single Ugly in this comic is a \\"die-wing,\\" with no variation between individual ships, which kind of defies the purpose.  Oh well.<br />While this is not the best Rogue Squadron has to offer, it's not bad either.  Recommended.	2001-02-09
US	52437038	ROCUWX0HDM6AG	1569713316	803427284	Requiem for a Rogue (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 5)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Validates &quot;Mysteries of the Sith&quot;	Requiem for a Rogue is the fifth X-wing Rogue Squadron story, and the fourth to see print in TPB form.  It's not quite as good as The Warrior Princess, and it's not nearly as good as either Phantom Affair or Battleground Tatooine.  I think this book may well have the worst art in the series, and it just isn't very entertaining.  However, some of the story elements validate the somewhat iffy plot points of the computer game Mysteries of the Sith, and this collection also includes the hard-to-find Rogue Squadron special which they were giving out on the opening day of ESB special edition.  This is also the last of the &quot;independant&quot; RS stories; after this they're all included the in the bigger &quot;Rise of Isard&quot; Story Arc.<br />Basically, the Rogues are asked to go looking for a Bothan passenger liner which has dissappeared.  They follow it's hyperspace trajectory, and find it landed on a planet.  When they touch down, they find the Captain was killed in the &quot;crash,&quot; but things also look very suspicious -- the Rogues suspect that the crash was actually sabotage.&quot;  It turns out that there's an ancient Sith temple here, one which Palpatine was planning to turn into a base, that of course has a stockpile of hundreds of TIEs, and things get ugly from there.<br />Many of the plotlines and ideas really stretch my ability to suspend disbelief in this comic, but there are a few surprises.  And the writing is OK, just not the best.  Overall, I think this is probably the worst book in the Rogue Squadron series.	2001-02-06
US	52437038	RHL8EMR3W6SUY	1569712514	122932255	The Phantom Affair (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A New Beginning	The Phantom Affair is the second story arc of the X-wing Rogue Squadron comic series, but it was the first to be collected in TPB form.  Its predecessor was deemed by the publishers to be not so good, and so this comic is sometimes seen as the real beginning of the series.  And what an excellent introduction, an excellent comic, it is.<br />The art is really good, the story is really really good, and the dialogue is lots of fun.  This book picks up soon after the Battle of Endor -- several weeks or maybe a month.  The Rogues, in case you don't know, are the Rebellion's top fighter squadron, often called on for the most difficult jobs.  Their mission this time: to buy a starfighter cloaking technology from the Mrlssi.  When they get there, however, things get complicated.  Not only is there apparently a &quot;ghost Jedi&quot; haunting the campus, but it turns out that the Imperials have also sent a delegation to try and obtain this technology.  And the real catch -- the head of the Imperial delegation happens to also be the guy who essentially murdered Wedge's parents when he was a boy.  And it thickens from there, but I can't really say more without spoiling things.<br />Aside from giving us a great, fun plot, this book also reveals more about Wedge's past than I think any other book or comic has.  Plus, of course, there's a plethora of action sequences, and of course all the characters are in character, trading their customary amusing witty banter.  And Mirax Terrik (from the X-wing novels), along with her ship the Pulsar Skate, appear here, giving readers a visual reference for her character.<br />And this book doesn't skimp on extras either.  There's a little introduction by Stan Sakai, an extra page giving us some background on and schematics of the X-wing fighter so we'll know what we're looking at, plus, accompanying the cover gallery are several pages of character design sketches.  Very cool.<br />This is one of the best X-wing comics, one of the best Star Wars comics, that you can buy.  And I recommend you do so.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-02-06
US	52437038	R3HFDOPAM7AXX6	1569713308	635371306	The Warrior Princess (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 4)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The weak link	I feel very strongly that The Warrior Princess is the worst of the Rogue Squadron line to see print in a collected edition.  This is the fourth story arc in the series, and it's just not that good.  The art's not bad, and there's some good character development, but I just couldn't care less for the story or for the bad guys.<br />The premise -- This is really a retelling of the Anastasia story and the Russian revolution with a few modifications.  Years ago there was a people's revolution against the King of Eiattu, and he and his whole family were brutally killed -- except, possibly, for the two youngest kids.  Now, it's years later, and the world is divided into several factions -- the Priams, or nobles, who want things the way they were, the common people, who simply want some equality, and then there's the Empire who just wants to take control.  The twist is that many of the people have been organized into a People's Liberation Battalion by the long thought dead son of the murdered King, but he wants to lead the people against the nobles.  And as it turns out -- one of Rogue Squadron's pilots, Plourr, is the long lost princess.  The nobles want to bring he back and put her in power to take away her brother's validity.  But of course she won't be their pawn.<br />I found this story, like my explanation thereof, drawn out and boring.  Moff Leonia Tavira was a stupid character, the background was obviously somewhat unoriginal.  This did have its points though -- there were some interesting new characters, some great character development and interaction, a few surprises, and we get to see Plourr kick a lot of butt.<br />Overall, though, I can't really give this book a recommendation.  It's not bad, but it's just not that good.	2001-02-06
US	52437038	R1PJYYXJ3SRVUU	156971276X	992338096	Battleground: Tatooine (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A hidden Imperial weapons cache -- there's an idea!	Battleground: Tatooine is the third story arc of the X-wing Rogue Squadron comic series, and the second to see publication in TPB collected form.  Picking up not too long after The Phantom Affair ended, this adequate sequel delivers the goods.  While the art's not quite as good as the previous volume, and the story's a little more basic, there are more characters, just as much great dialogue, and many classic scenes -- plus, of couse, all the obligatory action scenes of a Rogue Squadron story.<br />In this volume, the Rogues must travel to Tatooine to reconnoiter the place and hopefully find a hidden Imperial super-ship and weapons cache.  Unfortunately, a Twi'lek who's been conspiring with Bib Fortuna's brain has found out about these too, and is also after this prize, knowing that if he finds it he'll be the ultimate power on Tatooine.  When he goes rabbit, taking with him the location of the stuff, the Rogue must follow him to Ryloth, where, you guessed it, the Imperials are also headed trying to get the information.<br />This book brings back Winter, whose character was somewhat mangled in The Rebel Opposition, and fixes her up some, while putting her and Tycho together some.  It also gives us a ton of secondary characters who we'll meet later in the novels -- Huff Darklighter, Kapp Dendo, and Sixtus, not to mention some Twi'leks, familiar and new.  Also, this collection has a two-page written intro by Tim Zahn, which is amusing and somewhat enlightening to the Star Wars afficionado.<br />Overall, while this book isn't quite as good as The Phantom Affair, it is still a very amusing and emminently readable addition to the series. Recommended.	2001-02-06
US	52437038	RM1A4MZ2RQFHA	0671024973	444263118	Call to Arms (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine / The Dominion War Book 2) (v. 2)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Such a waste of potential	Call to Arms is the first of two books novelizing the six-episode &quot;Dominion War&quot; story-arc of Deep Space Nine.  These six shows were among the best of the series; some of the highest quality television footage ever produced.  And they squandered it all in the novelizations.  Whereas usually they stretch 1 2-hour show to fill 250 or so pages of text, here they've condensed 6 hours of shows in two 250 page books.  It's not a welcome change.  Some of the scenes are shown from the same point of view as the show, some from different points of view, but there is very little new materiel, and much of what there is simply isn't enough.<br />The whole premise of the story is that the Federation is fighting a war against the Dominion, and losing.  This is drilled into us, time and again, throughout the book.  And yet we never really see this losing.  Just about every battle or conflict that is shown here is won, and even when the station is evacuated, it's not really a horrible defeat -- the evac is done on Sisko's own terms.  This shouldn't really seem so bad, except it's jarring because that's the whole point of the book, it seems.  This book is so proud of itself, filled with little cliches and epiphanies about the nature of war, the devastation, the horror, and yet we see nothing of that except the talk.<br />However, the book still would have been salvageable if it had had some decent writing, editing, and length.  The word Jem'Hadar is not spelled correctly *once* in the entire novel, and even such basic Star Trek words as Cochrane are misspelled.  Often sentences are grammatically unsound, and it's unsettling to be jarred out of a battle scene by a sentence that just doesn't make any sense.  And worst of all, none of the scenes are written memorably.<br />And the adaptation isn't that great.  Presumably in an effort to save space, there were occasional whole passages that were nothing but dialogue -- no description or anything.  While that can be very effective if done right, here it was just annoying.  In addition, there were many battle scenes and crash scenes that weren't included in the shows for budget reasons -- and yet for some reason they didn't appear here, either, although the book could have been much more dramatic and fulfilling if they had, rather than just showing us &quot;before the crash&quot; and &quot;after the crash&quot; scenes.<br />There were a couple of high points here -- Worf's relationship with Alexander and Martok was much more effective here than on the show, and also we got a good look at Jem'Hadar thought processes and motivations here.<br />Unfortunately, overall this book just wasn't very good and isn't worth getting.  Not enough effort, it seems, was put into it to be able to really take anything out of it.	2001-02-02
US	52437038	R1NFEWIC0SV655	0439139317	59137694	The Evil Experiment (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not as good as The Deadly Hunter	As you may recall, the previous book in this series, The Deadly Hunter, was a fast-paced, fun action/adventure/mystery story, at the cliffhanger ending of which Qui-Gon had been captured by a mysterious bounty hunter.  Unfortunately, and to the detriment of that book, the cliffhanger was much too abrupt and the book seemed to stop in mid-story.<br />Well, this book picks up a couple days after Deadly Hunter leaves off, and resumes the story.  Obi-Wan now has to search for his Master (does anyone else have a little trouble believing the Jedi would lay that much responsibility on a 14-year-old male?), accompanied by Astri, another character from TDH, who has her own reasons for going on the quest.  Unfortunately, there is not nearly as much action or suspense in this book than there was in the previous one.  Also, the author seems to have gone back to her old tactic of populating the galaxy solely with people and beings who are either boorish brutes or else comedic idiots.  The only normal characters are the mains.<br />Additionally, although this book works up to a logical conclusion, it twists at the last second and throws us another, unneeded and unwanted cliffhanger ending, nearly as abrupt as in the previous volume.  If they're not going to finish the story in one book, then they should wait till it's done and release it in a &quot;giant novel&quot; or something, because these books are too short to warrant such cutoffs time and again.<br />Although I still am finding the Jedi Apprentice series readable, it needs to end, because the story is not really moving anywhere and the author's style is getting somewhat tired.  It was good while it lasted, but they're getting close to overdoing it.  If you liked TDH, pick this one up, but don't expect anything terrible special.	2001-02-01
US	52437038	R3P43LZT5060UM	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	5	56	58	N	N	A Refreshing Change of Pace	I found Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter to be an interesting, exciting and fun change of pace from the more run-of-the-mill Star Wars novels.  It obviously takes place in the Prequel Era, and covers the events immediately before the start of The Phantom Menace.  Basically the plot is that a Neimoidian with news of the Naboo blockade tries to sell the information on Coruscant, so Darth Maul is sent to hunt the guy down and kill him, as well as anyone he has told about the blockade.<br />Michael Reaves is by no stretch of the imagination a fantastic author; his writing style and mechanics just weren't that great.  However, this minor lapse is more than made up for by all the great elements to this book.  Reaves introduces several new and interesting characters, which is a boon since because they aren't &quot;main&quot; characters, there are no assurances that they will survive, and the suspense is therefore much greater than in most of the Star Wars stories.<br />The author also explores a lot of hitherto underexplained and -explored elements of the Star Wars universe.  For example, the fighting style known as tëras käsi has been referenced and mentioned a lot in previous novels, but here for the first time we see what it really is.  Also, we get more insight into the Sith culture -- why they want &quot;revenge&quot; on the Jedi, why Darth Maul in particular is so obssessed with killing Jedi, and things that make the Sith's motivations in the films much more clear.  The book goes more into the actual role of the Jedi in the galaxy, and how much influence they have, and it explores some of the problems with Jedi policy.  Also, though Reaves is a newcomer to the Star Wars universe, there are enough small references to other works to please fans especially.<br />In terms of action, of which there is certainly plenty to be found here, the author had a lot of fun.  New and innovative ways of killing and dying in the Star Wars universe, cool weapons and capabilities.  And instead of giving us a blow-by-blow breakdown of lightsaber duels, Reaves instead opts to go more into the mindset of the fighters, how the Force helps and influences their actions and decisions, which gives us a unique view in that regard.  In fact, for a novel more oriented towards adventure, I think that this book has an outstanding amount of introspection and thought regarding the ways, the use, and the limits of the Force, and the differences between the Light Side and the Dark Side.<br />There were really only a few small downfalls in terms of plot.  First of all, the Obi-Wan subplot was really unnecessary.  It didn't really go anywhere, and it didn't really establish anything new about the character anyway.  Also, in this book it seems that Holocrons are also able to be used as simple recording devices -- I had thought from previous sources that they were something different.  And finally, there was really no reason to introduce the &quot;Crimson Corridor.&quot;  There are already plenty of bad places that we know about on Coruscant, an easy example being the Southern Underground, without the author having to create an even new, even worse section than we've seen before.<br />Overall, however, this was a great effort.  A quick, fun, and entertaining romp through the bowels of Coruscant, filled with fun and enjoyable characters that I for one would like to see more of in the future.  Good job Michael Reaves!	2001-02-01
US	52437038	R25UR0OYRR0D3L	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	4	9	N	N	An very interesting character study...	I think that The Stranger is a great book.  Not only is this book an excellent departure from typical modern writing, it is also interesting in its own right.  Meursault is one of the most interesting and well-fleshed-out characters I've ever read, and the book stays succinct, never becoming overlong or drawn-out.  I actually felt Meursault's agitation on the beach, in the heat, with the light shining in his eyes; his annoyance in the cell with the chaplain.  This book represents, to me, what can be done with a character if he's handled correctly, and even only as far as that this book is worth a lot.  But it's interesting, too, which is definitely a plus.  Overall, this book, short though it may be, is a welcome and worthy addition to my bookshelf.<br />Textually, l'Etranger is quite a strange novel.  It defies many typical writing standards, while putting exceptional emphasis on others.  The novel is truly a character study, with the only world-building included solely to enhance the character.  As such, the book probably won't be a favorite of the general populace any time soon, with the need of most people for description, details and heroes, characters that can be cheered for.  Meusault, in any event, is certainly not much of a hero to root for.<br />Reading The Stranger, I found myself wondering what kind of person Albert Camus is (was?).  I haven't read any of his other stuff, but I find it unlikely that he is much like Meursault in attitude, or the novel would never have been written.  On the other hand, how did Camus delve so deeply into the mind of such a man if he's never experienced a similar mindset?  Is Meursault an embodiment of Camus' fears for the human race, what with his passivity and easy acceptance of everything, or is he an embodiment of the author's hopes, in his simple honesty and naïveté?  It would be interesting to find out where Camus got the idea for this particular personage.<br />In closing, I would just like to point out a couple ofthings.  First, I do know that this is regarded as an existentialist, modernist classic piece and whatnot, but I decided to judge it against other contemporary fiction because I don't really know much about that other stuff.  And finally, this is definitely a book worth reading even if you don't end up liking it.	2001-01-02
US	52437038	R249L6MSV1ZU7X	0312874944	93725353	Wheel of Time Calendar: 2001	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This calendar is excellent FOR WHAT IT IS	I don't typically review calendars, but I'd like to refute a few of the negative reviews here.  Yes, this calendar is filled predominantly with Darell K. Sweet's less than perfect artwork (The covers of all nine books, the alternate cover for book one, and the frontispiece for the story New Spring from the Legends anthology).  However, all of this is clear just from glancing at the back cover of the calendar.  However, it offers all of these images in high-quality reproductions without the text, and without the creases evident in the World of Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time book.  In addition, this calendar comes with a large poster containint the map of the Wheel of Time world.  While not a new map, it is certainly fun having a larger version to refer to while reading.  If you don't want DKS' artwork, don't buy the calendar.  It's that simple, and these Amazon.com's review sections are not a proper forum for bashing an artist.  I personally am enjoying having this calendar hanging on my wall.	2001-01-02
US	52437038	R31V2WVOTNKIF5	0345379063	590264183	Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 1)	Books	5	80	87	N	N	Hearkens back to the days of yore...	...Legend is one of the most refreshing books I have read in a good long time (probably since the last time I read it).  It is not great literature, and it doesn't try to be.  What it is is a grand heroic adventure full of awesome, bloody, inspiring battle scenes, motivational speeches and pep talks to shame BraveHeart, brave warriors, beautiful women (most of whom also happen to be brave warriors), magic, sieges, true love, valor, and all that other good stuff.  It is the story of a vast empire, soft due to complacency, that is being threatened by the barbarian hordes basically.  All that stands in the way of the main barbarian armies is one fortress, vastly undermanned, and the soldiers there aren't really soldiers at all but farmers volunteering as soldiers.  And at fifty to one odds against, their chances of holding the fort until their empire can raise a REAL army aren't looking good.  Enter Druss, fat old man and legendary warrior, who has never lost a battle, who has never given up, who has never sacrificed his principles.  The main point of this book is, can the defenders hold out long enough, can this living legend fighting with them give them enough hope to survive.  The question isn't whether they will win, but rather how long until they lose.  Don't look for deep characters or character development here, look for grand heroes and grander villains, who make their point with actions much more than words.  But what action!  This has quickly become one of my favorite books just to pick up an read.  Try it, you'll love it!	2001-01-01
US	52437038	R6EWT22I3IJD7	1559583754	469397222	X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide (Secrets of the Games Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best game guides ever	The X-wing Collector's CD-ROM Official Strategy Guide is one of the best game guides ever compiled, mainly because it goes way above and beyond simply giving up the secrets and offers a treasure trove of material to any Star Wars fan. This book has the typical stats for every ship and setup for every level that is in any strategy guide, but on nearly every page there is a high-quality CGI image illustrating what's going on.  Additionally, before you even get into the game, the author gives a ton of background not only on what's been established about Star Wars characters and situations before, but he writes a whole story about the character you play in the game.  And it doesn't stop there.  Between every mission, every training mission, between campaigns, the story of your pilot, not told in the game, unfolds in prose form.  Even though DeMaria isn't exactly the best author in the world, this book is great even just to flesh out the game by giving its characters and situations some personality and depth.  You get detailed walkthroughs (Farlanders after-action report), sometimes with sidebars suggesting even EASIER ways to do things, which actually tie-in and work together with the story, as well as a clear breakdown of mission goals and whatnot.  Unfortunately, all this story stuff ends with the original game.  For the walkthroughs of the two expansions, Imperial Pursuit &amp; B-wing, you just get straightforward walkthroughs.  But hey, that's what this is -- a strategy guide, not a novel.  It's easy to forget.  This is definitely a book worth buying whether you're stuck on a level in the game or if you just can't stand the long wait between Star Wars novels.  Heavily Recommended.	2000-12-28
US	52437038	R3MFRXQNCVFR61	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Surprised	I got this book as a gift, and, predictably, I started cracking up when I saw the description on the cover, &quot;The indispensible, indestructible guide for surviving life's sudden turns for the worse,&quot; and the partial list of topics covered. Not to mention the CAUTION: Book will explode if scanned. It was hilarious.  It was only once I actually opened the thing that I realized that this wasn't a tongue-in-cheek attempt, or a humorous jokebook.  The authors for the most part seem to have taken themselves very seriously in providing a basic manual on how to get out of a bunch of fixes.<br />While a lot of the stuff is very helpful, especially how to get away from dangerous animals and how to survive various natural catastrophes, a lot of it is also very impractical.  Some of the situations need never be done.  It's fun to learn how to jump from a motorcycle to a car, or how to get off of the top of a train, but when is anyone ever in a situation where they need to.  Also, because each category is so concise, details are often lost.  In particular, how to break into a car (assuming it's your own car, of course) could use some additional details.<br />However, the whole thing is heavily illustrated with diagrams, side facts and bits of helpful information.  Overall, I think that everyone should have a copy of this wonderful little book, JUST IN CASE.  Because, as the authors say, you just never know...	2000-12-27
US	52437038	R3MOK2B3H4NAKC	0439139309	944932660	Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice #11: The Deadly Hunter	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Much better than the last few...	The Jedi Apprentice series has been a curious mix.  It started off extremely well, went downhill for a couple of books, came back, went downhill again.  Now the quality of the series appears to be on the rise again.  This book is pretty much a whodunit mystery and investigation, punctuated with some cool action against an evil bounty hunter with a sort of lightwhip thing (it never really explained how that thing worked).  Even though this book was a lot more exciting, fun, and readable than the last few volumes in the series, it wasn't perfect: it was too short, and from the title of the next book in the series you can kind of guess from the halfway point what's going on.<br />The writing was of the expected high quality, and instead of hopping around the galaxy to various and sundry worlds, pretty much the entirety of this book takes place on Coruscant, and gives us a good look and contrast of the various locales therein.  I must point out that Togorians are still over- and misused in this series.  The action scenes were nifty, with the Jedi duo facing a finally worthy opponent instead of forced or &quot;disbelief suspended&quot; challenges.  And the pacing was very good.  If this book were complete, it would have been great.<br />Unfortunately, Deadly Hunter is...truncated.  It just sort of cuts off at what seems an ok cliffhanger point.  There should have been at least another chapter.  And it's not like it cut off because it was too long -- I think this may have been the shortest book yet in the series.  Also, the cover art turned me off from the onset to this bounty hunter; I can't stand the cover although I usually love the artist's work.  Still, this was a more than worthy addition to the series, even if the Jedi Apprentice line as a whole seems to lack any real direction at this point.<br />The Deadly Hunter was sufficiently interesting to make me WANT to read the next volume, but I still find myself hoping this series draws itself to a close in the near future.	2000-12-17
US	52437038	R1R6ZVC1ZAR6Y6	0345428579	706445147	Balance Point (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 6)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A different direction, to be sure, but a welcome one...	While the first five books in the New Jedi Order cycle have their emphasis on galactic events, and essentially serve as an introduction to the means and methods of the invading Yuuzhan Vong, this book focusses a lot more on character development.  All of the previous entries in this series have pretty much had the characters spread out all over space, only to almost coincidentally end up in the same area at the end for the huge battle finale, this book refreshingly takes place almost exclusively on the planet Duro, where the Solo clan is helping refugees settle in.<br />This is definitely a welcome change in pace.  In most of the previous books, the emphasis on action often lead to unsatisfactory character development, often with key characters being left out of a story entirely.  Here, however, each character has ample &quot;screen time,&quot; and Kathy Tyers obviously knows every one of them very well.<br />Balance Point is a &quot;Jacen book.&quot;  Finally, the kid seems to be coming into his own, and coming to terms with himself.  Unlike in previous novels where he's just seemed like a whiny brat, I could actually sympathize with him here.  And the author also took a little time to explain why his character is so different in the NJO series than in the Young Jedi Knights line.<br />Also in this book we have the best Luke/Mara interactions I've yet seen.  Unlike the &quot;witty repartee&quot; we saw in Mike Stackpole's books and the somewhat forced dialogue from Jim Luceno's, Kathy Tyers hits their relationship right on the nose, and gives it a surprise twist.  Jaina and Anakin also continue to grow believable as characters, and Han and Leia finally spend some time together again.  And, for I think the first time ever, I actually felt sorry for a Hutt.<br />This volume also expands the Yuuzhan Vong culture, making it more understandable, and brings back Nom Anor and Warmaster Tsavong Lah with a vengeance.  It was especially refreshing to see how Mara reacted toNom Anor's presence.  The author also tied up some loose ends from earlier in NJO and the SW saga as a whole, most notably concerning Lando, and she had obligatory plethora of cameos.<br />Don't let all my talk of character discourage you, though...this novel also has plenty of action.  Lightsaber fights, ship battles, dogfights, evacuations-under-fire, undercover Jedi, and all kinds of cool stuff.<br />I guess my only complain about this book is that Danni Quee is still nowhere to be seen.  But now that the first year &quot;introduction&quot; to the New Jedi Order has ended, the series is really taking shape, and this book is easily the best one yet.  I very definitely recommend picking this one up.  Thank you, Kathy, for a great read.	2000-11-01
US	52437038	R1OG1UHVGHUY2F	1569714649	792536068	Star Wars: Union	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Subpar work...	Union, after so much hype, was really dissapointing.  Sure it showed the marriage of Luke and Mara, but that was about it.  The Imperial &quot;threat&quot; to their marriage never felt very threatening, but that wasn't the point of this comic.  In fact, I felt that the marriage itself wasn't the point.  I think this comic was basically just a medium to give all us loyal readers a look at characters we've never seen drawn before.<br />The art was up to Taranishi's usual standards, but there were so many characters, most of them drawn without real reference, that they tended to blend together over the course of the book.  Adding to the confusion, it seems that occasionally the letter would mix up dialogue bubbles or something.<br />The dialogue was usually pretty good in here, but it was punctuated frequently by Stackpole's overblown rhetoric, and because they crammed so many goings-on, characters and subplots into a four issue series the whole thing just felt very condensed.<br />There were a few great scenes in here, but it's not all it's cracked up to be.	2000-11-01
US	52437038	R2W9VXTFZOMTZT	0671731424	481568206	The Wolf's Hour	Books	4	56	68	N	N	Not your typical werewolf story	Robert McCammon is a very versatile writer -- each of his books is very different stylistically and thematically, but so far the three I've read have all been very good.  Out of those three (Swan Song, Gone South, and The Wolf's Hour), TWH definitely has the least literary merit, but it is great in other ways.<br />This book follows two plotlines, which alternate back and forth every few chapters.  One takes place in Russia in the years immediately following the Revolution, and covers our hero's youth, and the other in 1944 Nazi-occupied Europe, which is where the main story takes place.<br />The 1944 segments read like &quot;Indiana Jones meets James Bond, with a twist.&quot;  Constant action, usually our hero against huge odds.  He always wins, always gets the girl, and although he's a beast on the battlefield he's the suave ladies' man otherwise.  Still, this is a fun, fast-paced romp through Nazi territory, with several really fun scenes and many completely unbelievable ones.  The thing that I really disliked about these sections of the novel were the depictions of the Nazis.  Every Nazi soldier was a stupid incompetant who deserved a terrible death, and each and every officer a blatantly sadistic, evil fellow.  Every Ally, however, is smart, resourceful, good looking (except for the obligatory caricature characters), charming and friendly.  That just didn't sit well with me.  This main portion of the book was an action-fest, but it was the flashback segments that were really much more interesting.<br />The second story told here is that of pre-adolescent Mikhail Gallatinov, around 1920.  After his family is brutally murdered following the Revolution, the kid is bitten by a werewolf.  These segments detail his growing up and coming to terms with himself and the world around him, and are much better written and more captivating than the segments when Michael is grown.<br />This book has its ups and downs.  First of all, the writing noticably improves as the bookgoes on. At the beginning there was frequent poor word choice, bad sentence structure, and very poorly written action scenes.  As the author grew into the book, though, that cleared up a lot.  Unfortunately, McCammon for some reason in this book felt it was necessary to include semi-frequent relatively explicit sex-scenes, which I think were supposed to be erotic but most of the time just sounded stupid.  On the other hand, the author raises and answers some good questions about werewolves, and thankfully silver bullets and such aren't mentioned even once.<br />Overall, this is a fun, fast-paced book with lots of good action and some terrific scenes.  Unfortunately most of the characters are rather one-sided and many scenes, such as Sandler's train and the concentration camp, are utterly unbelievable.<br />This is a much better werewolf novel than the dreadful Moon Dance or boring The Silver Wolf, but it by no means is going to win any literary awards.	2000-11-01
US	52437038	R36AE42BGX9VPW	1569713103	100960993	Star Wars - Jabba the Hutt: Art of the Deal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The &quot;slimy piece of worm-ridden filth&quot; is back!	This comic, or rather collection of comics, doesn't exactly contribute much to the grand scheme of things in the Star Wars universe.  The plots aren't incredibly rich, the art's never going to win any awards, and the stories don't have a whole lot of relevance.  So, you may ask, why bother?  In a word: Jabba! To be sure, this is not the Jabba we've seen in the films.  Not the ruthless, immobile, gruesome, cold killer evidenced in the movies.  No, this is a ruthless, gruesome killer with a sense of humor, an attitude, and some brains.<br />Three out of the four stories contained herein are definitely worth reading.  The first story, the Gaar Suppoon Hit, would be more aptly titled The Art of the Deal.  We get to see a business transaction...Jabba style.  This isn't the funniest stuff I've ever read, but it's a far sight funnier than the weak droids stuff and most other attempts at Star Wars humor. The second story, the Hunger of Princess Nampi, stinks.  Jabba's attitude, his subservients, story inconsistencies...this one is just an overall unenjoyable addition. The third story is more similar in style to the first one, and while the art's not great, it's very fun.  And in the fourth and final story, we really get to see Bib Fortuna's hatred of Jabba (which we see a lot more of in Tales from Jabba's Palace), as well as Jabba's dumb luck and complacency.<br />Taken these stories with a grain of salt and you'll find that you'll really enjoy them.  If you're expecting more serious, pertinent fare, then move on.	2000-10-20
US	52437038	R1VJ8JQWRFK9YI	034536239X	146739440	Sun Tzu: The Art of Warfare	Books	5	40	42	N	N	&quot;If you want peace, understand war...&quot;	I haven't read or even so much as glanced at any other translations or publications of Sun-Tzu's Art of Warfare, and as far as I'm concerned I didn't need to.  This edition is a wonderful translation, easily readable and understandable while remaining true to the Chinese.  In fact, for verification purposes, the original text is contained opposite nearly every page.<br />The translator starts off with a very interesting introduction probably longer than the book itself; while a little boring at times, it was a very necessary addition.  He explains to the reader the history of the various finds that have gone towards completing the text, the structure of the text, the historical background and anecdotes of Sun-Tzu, compares fundamental western beliefs and mindsets to eastern, and generally just analyzes this work and puts it into perspective for the reader.<br />As for Sun-Tzu's work itself -- it's great.  If you read it carefully, you'll be surprised to not how much of this stuff you already know, how much is simply common sense -- but the format and presentation and conciseness of it is astounding.  It presents the material in an accessible way that's understandable and readable.  Also including here, alongside the initial 13 chapters, are all kinds of Art of Warfare fragments which have been unearthed, most of which are pretty interesting.<br />This book is a must read if you are at all interesting in war or the context thereof.	2000-10-16
US	52437038	R35O8FCP05C6AH	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The book that others try to be...	I have now read Dune twice, and it remains, upon completing it a second time, just as good, intriguing, and thought-provoking as it was the first time around.  It's one of those rare, wonderful novels after the reading of which no other books seem quite good enough to read for a while.  In fact, Dune is so great that though I own the sequels, I haven't yet been able to read them for the fear that they might in some way diminish the masterpiece that is the original.<br />When I first read this book, my schoolwork and social life suffered through the days it took to read it.  I almost literally couldn't put it down.  This novel is so engrossing, so enthralling, and so REAL that you wonder how you ever enjoyed the shallowness that is most sci-fi novels.  In fact, Dune isn't just the best science fiction novel of all time, it's one of the best pieces of literature, period.<br />And it is a very real world.  The multilayered plots, the believable science, the shades-of-gray characters, the religions, emotions, technology...everything.  Arthur C. Clarke is quoted in the book as saying that, &quot;Unique...I know of nothing comparable to it except The Lord of the Rings.&quot;  It's true.<br />Any type of plot synopsis I try to give here would be hopelessly muddled and confusing, so I'll forgo that in this review and simply say that, to use the old saw, If you only read one book this year, read Dune.	2000-10-15
US	52437038	R1BHS3TB9LJI24	0449911497	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An absolutely incredible look at a common soldier	I had to read this book for school not too long ago, and it turned out to be one of the rare times that I was glad that a book had been forced upon me.  Usually I find schoolbooks to be a waste of my time, but this one most certainly was not.  As the author explains in the preface, this book is not an adventure novel.  It is through and through an anti-war novel, and it stands up there with the best of them.<br />In this book we see World War I through they eyes of a twenty-year-old German soldier.  We see his horror when he learns that war isn't glorious, his connection to his friends, his eventual assimilation into the ways of the army, again his horror when he kills his first victim with his hands instead of his gun, and his gradual turn to apathy before the end.<br />This book is a chilling, heart-wrenching look at the state of affairs and state of mind during a war.  It shows us how war absolutely destroyed a generation of young men, and for what?<br />As it is said, if you want peace, understand war.  This book should be mandatory reading for everyone.	2000-10-15
US	52437038	R17699RG5YT2CM	0441114822	829038556	Conan The Mercenary	Books	1	2	9	N	N	The worst Conan tale I've yet read...	Conan the Mercenary, the sequel to Offutt's Conan and the Sorceror, is the worst Conan story I've yet read.  The illustrations in the &quot;illustrated novel&quot; are quite horrible, and the text is big, which makes for a short story, essentially, not a book.  Virtually nothing of note happens in this whole book, except for the fact that Conan gets his soul back.  The action scenes are short and pointless, Conan's whole attitude and demeanor seems nothing like Conan, and overall this book was a waste of the time it took me to find a copy.<br />Skip this one.	2000-10-07
US	52437038	R23RMM74SL87YK	0345428595	398079632	Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 5)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Not as good as Hero's Trial	Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse is a worthy addition to the Star Wars mythos, but it's certainly not anywhere near the best.  Whereas this book's predecessor, Hero's Trial, focused almost solely on the (mis)adventures of a still-grieving Han Solo, this volume tries to keep track of everyone. Unfortunately, this is not necessarily a good thing.<br />Han is still on his quest, with newfound sidekick Droma, to find Droma's missing clan.  Meanwhile, Leia heads off to the Hapes Consortium to try to win them over to the cause, the Hutts try to play the New Republic off of the Vong for their own benefit, Jacen &amp; Anakin head off to examine the possibility of using Centerpoint Station as a weapon against the Vong, Borsk continues to be Borsk, and there are subplots galore.  The author maintains his high standards of writing throughout, and this book could have been absolutely terrific had it been about, say, three times as long as it is.  Unfortunately, because of the relatively short length of the book, very few of the plot threads are developed satisfactorily, and sometimes they seem a bit disjointed.<br />Still, the action is excellent, the characterizations are dead on, Luceno's knowledge of the Star Wars universe is superb, and there are cameo appearances of old favorites galore.  The only two plots in this book that really kept me extremely interested were the Han and the Skidder plots, though, with the rest being too underdeveloped.<br />The cover isn't very good either.  While the Vong (Warmaster Tsavong Lah) appears much as he is described in the book, Han is missing an arm, and his beard looks more like a blur than any facial hair I've ever seen.<br />Overall, this is an okay addition to the New Jedi Order, but the only Great parts of the book were the Han scenes and the last chapter, which almost boosted the book up another point just by itself.  I do recommend this novel, but it's not the best.	2000-10-05
US	52437038	R1DW7Z0PGM2RBI	0345420667	569188059	A Guide to the Star Wars Universe	Books	1	24	32	N	N	This third edition is truly a rip-off!	OK, what have we got here?  To cover six years worth of Star Wars continuity since the last edition of the Guide, we get around 100 pages of new materiel.  Except it isn't new.  The author made a point to include materiel fom The Phantom Menace and Vector Prime, but other than that it seems nothing released in the last 2-3 years made it in here! No material from Allston's X-wing books, no Union, no prequel-era stuff except for the movie itself.  While there is a bit about Kyle Katarn from the Dark Forces game, nothing about his role in the sequel, Jedi KNight, which came out about four years ago.  There are virtually no new pictures, most of them are merely lifted from the Essential Guides.<br />But perhaps the biggest problem is in the organization.  Gone are the categorical indeces of aliens, droids, ships, planets, creatures, etc... which were so helpful at the beginning of Edition 2, gone is even a rudimentary timeline, absent is the galactic map which has been gracing most of the more recent Star Wars fiction. Also gone is the neat seperation in the earlier edition between &quot;canon&quot; materiel -- that established in the movies and their novelizations -- and just about everything else.<br />For about twice the price of this book you can get the Star Wars Encyclopedia, which has more materiel, many, many more color photos and illustrations, and better organization of materiel.  I recommend that you do.  This book is a waste of time and money.  It was three years outdated when it came out, overpriced at that.	2000-10-05
US	52437038	R3S2I7E7M2XK3R	0812551028	85425850	Catch The Lightning (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	2	14	22	N	N	&quot;Lightning&quot; fails to strike twice	I read this book right after the first in the Skolian Saga, Primary Inversion, and boy was I shocked.  Yuuk!  This book doesn't pick up where  the first left off, but skips over 50-150 years of interesting sounding  stuff, and focuses on the nephew of the star of Book #1.  (Actually it  starts on an alternate, present day earth, but that's just a  mistake).<br />After reading all the science theory and explanations in the  first book, I was incredibly bored rereading them being re-explained here,  usually almost word for word.  Five pages on the genes and genetic problems  of the Rhon, two on the &quot;tree on the road&quot; ftl model, and on it  goes.  Also, the characters weren't nearly as captivating as in the first  book.  I didn't really ever care for or about them, and the memories of  pain in the first book are so much more horrible than the actual pain in  this one.<br />Where the first book had a couple of tastefully done sex  scenes, it seems that every 20 pages here the characters have to jump in  bed together.  Also, I think that Tina's reaction to being pulled 400 years  into the future of an alternate universe is a little underdone; she just  takes it all in stride like she does that kind of thing every day.  There  was never any real suspense in this book, and the first half of the book  doesn't really have anything to do with the second half.<br />I definitely  don't recommend this book.  I enjoyed Primary Inversion enough that I'm  willing to try book #3, but this one really stunk.  I actually found myself  rushing through the last two chapters, so eager was I for it to actually  end!	2000-08-19
US	52437038	R2LQNXFNG2Y7TP	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	WOW!	I picked this book up the other day, and read it almost in one sitting.   Interesting characters, amazing science theory, strange and sometimes  convoluted politics...This book was really something.  Sciencewise, this  book is ultradetailed -- so much so that I could convince myself that I  actually had some idea what the author was trying to say.  The action  scenes were innovative, to say the least -- I've never before read a  fighter combat scene quite like that one, and the telepathy models were  interesting.  This was a really fascinating, fun, and engrossing book, and  I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.	2000-08-19
US	52437038	RQA2BJOBV670N	0590520806	693218761	The Fight for Truth (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 9)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Better than #8 but lacking direction	With the Xanatos plotline ended in Jedi Apprentice #8, one would think that they would come up with some new plotline, but after reading this book I'm not so sure, and that's not necessarily a good thing.  While this book in and of itself was more readable than several of the earlier ones, with  the characters better defined than usual and the writing clear, I didn't  feel that it really had a point to make.<br />The new planet and its  semi-democratic communist government was pretty interesting, but it doesn't  look like we'll get back there, and there were no more main bad guys or  villains introduced.  It looks as if the Jedi Apprentice series is going to  turn into just an episodic series, as opposed to a part of the whole; a  saga, which is what Star Wars is.<br />The characters, as I've stated, were  really well done, and Siri was an interesting addition (the cover pic  doesn't do her justice).  The fight scenes, what few there were, were  concise, to the point, and fairly well done, and it goes back a little bit  into the nature of the master/padawan bond.<br />Oh, and there was a ton of  neat foreshadowing -- well done Watson.  This was a good book by itself,  but it didn't really add anything to the series.	2000-07-26
US	52437038	R300GZOOVF9L5T	0553577328	339443172	War (Aliens Vs. Predator, Book 3)	Books	1	21	25	N	N	What happened here...	To start off, I'll clear up what appears to be confusing some people, and then I'll write the review.  This book takes place BEFORE Bischoff's Hunter Planet.  It fills in the time when Noguchi was with the Predators, before she rejoined human society.  So there.<br />Now, the review -- This book,  frankly, stunk.  Picking up right after Aliens: Berserker, a year after  AvP: Prey, and two years before AvP: Hunter's Planet, War was just a short,  silly, boring waste of time and money.  <br />The characters from Berserker  were still the same, still recognizable, but with roughly ninety pages to  divide between the three of them, we just didn't get enough of them.  Not  to mention that through 2/3 of the book they were just sitting in an escape  pod...As I've said, the only part of  this book, besides the cover, that was any good was the two pages or so of  Nirasawa and his revenge programming.  Good stuff.  <br />This book has so  much potential, and it was just a huge dissapointment to read.  I'd  recommend staying away from this one.	2000-07-21
US	52437038	RMM6VCTQR2LGL	055357731X	696863192	Berserker (Aliens)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Better than the others...	Berserker is actually one of the better and more captivating books in the Aliens series.  While the concept isn't exactly original -- Aliens: Tribes was also about a berserker team -- this book was certainly a lot better  written than tribes.  The characters were well developed, and most of them  were understandable people the reader is able to sympathize with.  You  could easily feel sorry for Teape when he's doing his job, or understand  how Ellis feels around other members of the crew.<br />In addition, unlike  most of the books preceding this one, there is actually quite a bit of  action.  We get a lot of bug hunting, and, more importantly, cool bug  killing.<br />Others have complained about the lack of something so basic as a  plot, but there is a rudimentary plot, and that's all that's needed.  The  team is sent to wipe out a bug infestation and uncovers a Company coverup.   Let's face it, in this series, you don't need a great, subtle plot, you  just need an excuse to kill some XTs.<br />The MAX (Mobile Assault ExoWarrior  or somesuch) was really cool, although I seem to recall that in Tribes it  was colled a MOX (offensive instead of assault).  Oh well.  Overall this  was a fun, fast-paced, very readable bit of fiction.  The only real  downside is the cover.  That must be one of the worst cover illustrations  I've ever seen.  UGGHH!	2000-07-21
US	52437038	R1D2568W2VBWB	1569713995	55812457	Aliens: Apocalypse - Destroying Angels	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of the more thoughtful Aliens comics...	From the title, I really was expecting just another military-operation gone wrong title, but this book was a pleasant surprise.  Going back to the time before the Human-Alien Wars, to a time when, 20 years after the first  Alien movie, most people don't even know the creatures exist, this book  explores the creatures' origins.  Why are there here, and who put them  there?<br />Of course, these questions aren't all answered, leaving the door  open for more Aliens: Apocalypse -- titles, but it's a refreshing and  thoughtful changes.  The interesting rescue story is complemented by good  dialogue, typically wonderful artwork (some of the Aliens comics are so  badly drawn it's incredible), and yes, a few action sequences.<br />While I  liked that they were trying to explain the aliens, I didn't agree with the  explanations, and this book somewhat contradicts previously published  Aliens comics, making it hard to accept as part of a whole.  Still, this is  quite an enjoyable comic, one that should be read by every Aliens fan.	2000-07-19
US	52437038	R37UH4BE5GMFKK	0785107517	888372724	The Essential Conan, Volume #1 (Conan the Barbarian #1-25)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	A fun look at the Hyborian age's greatest hero	The essential Conan is a collection of the first 25 issues of the Conan the Barbarian comics released by Marvel back in the early seventies.  Although this book is in black and white, a format which seems to have gone  out of style, this book often manages to capture the spirit of the original  Conan stories.  The plots aren't usually too dumb, and as the book advances   the comics go from a bunch of individual stories to big story-arcs, making  it more readable and giving it more of a sense of continuity.<br />While this  book doesn't always stick to the Conan stories continuity-wise, for the  most part it fits in, filling little gaps in between those stories.  Also,  several of howard's better stories are adapted to comic format here; Tower  of the Elephant, Frost Giant's Daughter, and Rogues in the House to name a  few. We get the first comics' appearance of Red Sonja as well.<br />Overall,  this is a fun, quick read, and although it's only in B&amp;W, for the sheer  amount of materiel included herein it's definitely worth the cover price.	2000-07-16
US	52437038	R1R1MHM8AWHOR7	1878574280	483044643	Aliens: Tribes	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Too short and uninvolving	This book racks in at 72 pages, but it starts on page 6, and 25 of the remaining 66 pages are illustrations.  That turns this book into a 40 page book.  The art is excellent, up to Dorman's standards, creepy, photorealistic, and lots of fun to look  at.  But the writing leaves a lot to be desired.  Overlong senteces and too  many big words obscure some really neat scenes.  The story's pretty good,  though, and it introduces the idea of a &quot;berserker&quot; unit that  will be brought back later in Perry's novel.  This book is a neat addition  to the Aliens series, it just costs too much for too little content.	2000-07-15
US	52437038	R16QTCF7YFGQO7	0441114539	813358085	Conan 02 Of Cimmeria (Conan Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A definite improvement over the first volume...	The stories in Conan of Cimmeria surpass in content and in language the stories in the first Conan book.<br />The Curse of the Monolith, by de Camp &amp; Carter, is an okay political story, but the action is kind of weak.   A fun little read.<br />The Bloodstained God, by Howard &amp; de Camp, is the  most boring story in this volume.  I found it overlong and almost  unreadably bad.  Not sure why, but I just couldn't stand it.<br />The Frost  Giant's Daughter, I think, is generally considered to be one of the best  Conan stories, and I agree.  Short and to the point, this story isn't about  Conan, the story is Conan.<br />The Lair of the Ice Worm, by de Camp and  Carter, is another fairly good story that doesn't have any relevance in the  grand scheme of things, but it's fun and entertaining.<br />Queen of the Black  Coast, by Howard, is another excellent story, dripping with Howard's  wonderfully readable style.  The heroine here is in no small part the  inspiration for Valeria in the first Conan movie.<br />The Vale of Lost Women,  by Howard, is another really good story that really gets into who and what  Conan is, not just about one of his feats.<br />The Castle of Terror, while  more entertaining than Bloodstained God, is so stupidly pointless that I  wonder why it was written, much less put in here.  You're not missing  anything if you skip this one.<br />The Snout in the Dark, while being an  improvement of Castle of Terror and Bloodstained God, doesn't reveal  anything new about Conan, isn't terribly exciting, but it's still an  interesting read.<br />This book is, again, superior to the first in the  series...highly recommended.	2000-07-15
US	52437038	RY1XV7YONHHYO	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderfully hilarious book	Its really a great thing when someone can look at the little, everyday mundane issues of life and make something out of them, and that's just what Bryson does in this book.  A collection of articles on his reflections  about american life after having lived in England for 20 years and then  moving back, this is an absolutely hilarious book, an essential  read.<br />This guy is a wonderful complainer, explainer, and retainer of  trivial knowledge.  Reading this book, you'll not only end up on the floor  laughing, you'll also learn something.  While a few of the articles feel  forced and aren't very funny (new computer/tax form/mysteries of life)  overall this is an engrossing, fun funny look at American life, lifestyle,  and the inconsistencies therein.  From drugs to energy consumption to law  to holidays to car trips,fresh air, computers, floss, pencil sharpeners,  attics, schooling, post offices, junk food, gardening -- you name it, it's  covered and exposed here.<br />This is definitely a book very worth reading.	2000-07-11
US	52437038	R2EFEKJ11F5Q81	0553565567	532457331	Hunter's Planet (Aliens Vs. Predator, Book 2)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Not as good as it could be.	Aliens vs. Predator: Prey was a really unexpectedly good novel.   Unfortunately, Hunter's Planet doesn't uphold those standards.  The  writing's not bad, nor is the plot especially horrible; the problem, as in  Bischoff's other Aliens novel, is in the pacing and structure of the  book.<br />The book starts off fairly enough, with some cool Predator action,  and then Machiko's flashbacks on her years with the predators.  (The  flashback is the only part of the book based on a comic, where as all the  other books in this line are basically just adaptations of comics.)  Then,  before we get any more interesting action, we get over a hundred pages of  Machiko and Til sleuthing around trying to figure out what's going on, with  every once in a while a scene from a Predator's point of view.<br />Then, at  the big battle scene in the end, it was basically summed up as  follows:<br />The predators and the aliens slugged it out.  Machiko stayed  behind and marveled at how deadly they all were.  It looked like the aliens  were winning, but then the predators started winning.  <br />The battle was  from an outside perspective and therefore was pretty boring.  The  characters didn't really have anything going for them, and there were too  many questions left unanswered -- who was that company Til was talking  about that sent him, stuff like that.<br />Overall, this is a fairly  uninteresting and boring novel that, while being part of the series,  doesn't really have any impact on anything.  While it is worth reading if  you have the time and money, if you don't you're not really missing any  good action, inventive characters, or innovative situations.  A mediocre  bit of sci-fi.	2000-07-10
US	52437038	RJZJO5YX0CMCQ	1563890925	836079189	Batman Versus Predator: The Collected Edition (Dark Horse Comics)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An enjoyable comic...	I am not really a Batman fan; nor, for that matter, am I a comics fan.  I  am, however, a genre fan, and I love the whole Predator mythos.  This comic  book has wonderful, dark artwork, really keeping the mood going, and the  predator &quot;cloaking&quot; effect looks pretty cool here.  The scripting  is pretty good for the most part, and while the plot isn't great, it  doesn't have to be -- Batman and the Predator duke it out!  The action is a  little confusing at times, but mostly it works well.<br />The thing that  bugged me most is that the predator played back recorded speech far too  often, and in far too apropriate places.  But his code of honor is there,  his weapons are there...<br />My only real complaint about this graphic novel  is that the pages are normal comic paper instead of the glossier  &quot;collected edition&quot; paper to which I've become accustomed.<br />I  recommended this book to fans of either of the title characters -- one of  the better comics I've read in a while.	2000-07-10
US	52437038	R2K5MIHWHZQDDD	0553563718	154281972	Genocide (Aliens)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An adequate continuation of the series	While Genocide's writing is technically better than that of the initial trilogy by Perry (better grammar and structure, et al.), it's no where near as adventurous or fun.  The book opens with an action sequence that would  have looked good on the big screen, but it was described in a kind of flat,  unexciting way.  Then, for the next 165 pages...NO ALIENS!  This is an  aliens novel, right?  The characters are better developed than those in the  trilogy, but they aren't as interesting, either.  A bitter Corporal whose  family have been killed by aliens.  An optimistic businessman whose signed  on just to escape from a loanshark.<br />And the plot -- In the aftermath of  the Earth-Alien War, a pharmacuetical company has started releasing an  addictive drug known as fire, a drug that's addictive and enhances human  senses, but they're running out of alien jelly, so they send people to the  Alien Hiveworld to get some more.  The comic was cool looking, and didn't  need an excuse to be kind of dumb.  This book was overlong, with adequate  fight sequences and some interesting &quot;future history&quot;  moments.<br />If you like the series, try this one, if not, stay away.	2000-07-08
US	52437038	R11071QMBLJ39M	0553565559	728443750	Prey (Aliens Vs. Predator, Book 1)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	What's going on?	After the interesting but poorly executed Alien trilogy by the Perrys, and a well executed but uninteresting Alien novel from Bischoff, I was fairly skeptical when I came to this one, but it was worth it.  <br />This was easily  the best book so far in this Aliens/Predator series.  The aliens are an  unknown threat who are to be &quot;contained until the Marines  arrive.&quot;  The colonists are just normal people, not Marines or, in  fact, essentially armed at all except for a few personal sidearms.<br />But  where this book is really interesting is in the exploration of the  Predator, or &quot;Yautja,&quot; culture.  While occasionally their thought  processes are a little too human, that's okay, because they are  biologically similar.<br />The action is fun and fast, the characters  interesting, and, if not perfectly believable, they aren't bad either.  The  confrontation with the Queen was a little anticlimactic, but other than  that this was a really good book.<br />Definitely recommended.	2000-07-08
US	52437038	R1EJWON7Z1UB8I	0062700561	253234120	The Harper Encyclopedia of Military History: From 3500 B.C. to the Present	Books	5	14	17	N	N	An amazing work	This book is one of the best additions to my bookshelf in a long time.  It is humongous, but instead of tracing every important event in human history as so many of these types of books do, it traces the evolution of military  and warfare, it records almost every single battle ever (a few are excluded  for space reasons), it has pictures and all kinds of cross-referencing  indexes at the back.<br />This book is divided into chapters for time periods,  and the chapters are divided into sections that talk about different  areas/nations.  Each section starts with an overview of the people, their  history, their tactics and strategies, and just generally adds some  background.  Then the authors give an extremely detailed and referenced  timeline of military events.<br />Of course, in a work this size, there will  be errors.  In the introduction to this edition, the author acknowledges  that, and apologizes.  He notes that often there are inconsistencies from  one history to the next, so while researching he had to pick which was most  likely to use.  Still, this is an extremely helpful, thorough, well-written  and illustrated book that no one should be without.<br />And you can get some  good excercise while reading it; it's somewhere around ten pounds.	2000-07-07
US	52437038	RV8BLW9OTBSRK	0553561596	784425084	The Female War: Aliens, Book 3	Books	3	7	9	N	N	OK	Female War had so much potential that it's a real shame to give it such a low rating.  Unfortunately, it's one badly enough that it merits it.  Wilks and Billie continue to have a lot of &quot;development&quot; scenes, the  only problem being that the authors are basically restating their problems  over and over.  More than half the book is spent just introducing new  characters, condensing the interesting stuff into about a hundred pages at  the end.  The climax seems rushed harried, and unfinished.  The fight  scenes are fairly well done, but again short and rushed.  Stephani Perry's  influence is seen in the writing style -- for the first time in this  series, a semi-colon has been properly used, and there's not quite as much  language or sex.  Ripley is semi-interesting, but not developed enough in  any way that counts.  This book also shares a flaw with the first two in  the trilogy -- namely, not enough of the title creatures.<br />This trilogy  has been enjoyable but dissapointing.  If you really like Aliens, read  them, if not, you're not really missing anything.	2000-07-06
US	52437038	R14VHPRVCZI3FV	0886774802	931140449	Stone of Farewell (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 2)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Simply Fantastic	Stone of Farewell, the second volume of Tad Williams' trilogy Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, is amazingly good, easily surpassing in almost every way (except length) the first book in the saga.  It starts with the technical  details.  The pretty frequent typos and grammatical errors found Dragonbone  Chair are virtually eliminated here.  And the story itself has become much  more unique and self-defined, drifting out of the standard Tolkien rut the  first book was in.<br />The characterisations continued to advance believably,  enjoyably, and sympathetically, and some of the characters not focused on  from the first book enjoy a much more prominent role here.  The action and  interactions are superb, the pacing excellent, and the author wisely  chooses not to show the POV of the characters with twisted minds or royal  blood.<br />The Sithi society is interesting, not too human but not so inhuman  that we can't relate, either.<br />This is one of the best fantasy works that  I have seen in years, and I'm very much looking forward to reading the  third book in the cycle.	2000-07-04
US	52437038	RYRTWY1FSB286	0886775981	551793199	To Green Angel Tower, Part 1 (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 3)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Continues to uphold...	...Williams' high writing standards.  This book has a lot of good action and battles, reunions, new characters and breakthroughs, questions answered and more questions raised, everything that I expected.  Unfortunately,  there are also a few of the old errors from book one popping up here again;  for instance, calling Josua Joshue semi frequently.<br />While the book for  the most part upholds the level of excellence of its two predecessors, my  enjoyment of it was severely hampered by the fact that when I picked it up,  I was only getting half of the book, and at that time my bookstore didn't  have part 2 in stock.<br />Well, I read it anyway, and I'm beginning to  wonder, because halfway through the final book in the trilogy, the story  doesn't really seem and closer to closure than it did in the middle of the  second book.  There are more questions than answers, the characters are  certainly not ready, or even yet moving towards, any kind of confrontation  or resolution.  Indeed, I am left to wonder how the author plans to tie  everything together in the seperate second half of the novel.<br />However, it  is still an exceptionally good bit of fantasy, and eminently worth reading;  just don't pick it up unless you've got To Green Angel Tower (Part 2) ready  to go.<br />And a final note -- the cover format and paper grade have changed  from the previous books.  This has nothing to do with the story, but the  world is in the details and I like consistency throughout a series.  Just a  note.  Still -- read the book.	2000-07-04
US	52437038	R3E90WOUD7UFQI	0553561588	515183697	Nightmare Asylum (Aliens)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A slight improvement over book 1	Too darn much was happening in Earth Hive to allow it to develop to a really interesting extent.  So this book was a relief to read in that it had one basic plotline, and therefore we got a lot more characterization of  the main three characters -- old &quot;doc holliday&quot; Colonial Marine  Wilks, the guy who isn't afraid to die and feels a need to wipe out the  aliens.  Then there's billie, who's lived her whole life in a mental  institution since she was the sole civilian survivor of an alien attack on  her world years ago.  And the villian, General Thomas Spears, who thinks  he's the messiah and is trying to tame aliens to go back to earth and kill  the ones already there.<br />Unfortunately, spears is insane and paranoid, so  anyone he doesn't like is bug food.  This book was so much better written  than the first it's incredible, but the author still has a problem with  semi-colons.  The biggest problem with this book, and the reason it doesn't  rate very high, is because it really doesn't have anything to do with the  aliens or the alien infestation, and nothing is accomplished to that end.   It was an interesting sci-fi story to be sure, but it didn't give us  anything essential.<br />This is an ok addition to the Aliens Saga, but don't  expect much from it.	2000-07-04
US	52437038	R6R9Y78VK6K63	0553561200	547976553	Earth Hive (Aliens, Book 1)	Books	2	5	12	N	N	A Mixed-Bag	I didn't start reading an Aliens novel with real high expectations, and I got pretty much what I expected.  I haven't read the comics upon which this book is based, so I can't tell if it's an accurate adaptation, but it was  an ok story.  <br />The cover of this book is really cool; it's what led me to  pick it up in the first place. Unfortunately, it's the best part of the  book.  As soon as you open the novel, you see that this is not Steve Perry  in his best form.  He constantly plugs in commas where semi-colons would be  much more appropriate, and neglects to put commas where they should be,  which makes many sentences read quite awkwardly.  He uses very short  paragraphs, often jumping from thing to thing without really going into  them.  This book could've gotten another star just for being  well-edited.<br />The backstory of the characters is exactly the same as the  story of Aliens -- a squad of Colonial marines goes to Rim to investigate  something, finds the aliens, nukes the colony (it's the only way to be  sure), and there are only 2 survivors -- a marine corporal and a civilian  girl.  Turns out, thought, that the girls parents started the alien problem  when they discovered a giant, horseshoe shaped derelict spacecraft and went  to investigate...sound familiar?<br />Also, this book spans nearly three  years, most of it at the end.  There are a ton of characters, multiple  plotlines evolving at once.  It's just too short.  With another hundred or  two pages, we could've gotten to know the characters, instead of just  observing their actions; the neatest sequence in the book, the alien  takeover, could've been shown in a lot more depth.<br />Overall, this story is  a semi-entertaining, somewhat well-written contribution to the Aliens saga,  but it could've been much better.	2000-07-02
US	52437038	R34DNWD08BBID1	0812542525	96713689	Conan The Valorous	Books	5	12	12	N	N	One of the better Conan novels...	Conan the Valorous is a refreshing read after some of the other Conan materiel that they've put out.  It's got plenty of action, with humans, demons, gods, mages, you name it.  It really gets into what life is like up  in Cimmeria and the northern nations, and how those civilizations are  organized.  We get plenty of real Conan -- not terribly intelligent, but  good in a fight and quick with his wits; not the 'detective' Conan which  some authors have tried to pass off as the real thing.  This is pure  escapist reading, and it's better than most.  It's definitely worth the few  hours it will take you to read it.	2000-06-24
US	52437038	R296ZURPWOSXHP	0441116841	511271773	Conan and the Sorcerer (Conan Illustrated)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Pretty bad, even for a Conan novel	Conan and the Sorceror has potential, but the author just isn't right for Conan.  The writing is repetitive, full of unneeded adjectives and big words.  Conan is much too talkative, and his vocabulary is too large.  A  camel doesn't respond to his prodding, so he says, &quot;I am going to lead  youout of here, or drag your strangled carcass.  Choose, old  supercilious-head.&quot;  Supercilious-head!   At this time, right after  the story, &quot;The Tower of the Elephant,&quot; Conan is as yet unbedded,  so while there is plenty of nudity, Conan is just standing around looking  at it, whereas in most books he jump on the woman.  Conan also gets  arbitrary urges to murder people for no reason, while at other times he  stands around reasoning with those trying to murder him.  The explanations  are overlong, and the book has a cliffhanger ending.<br />The artist only  makes things worse.  In most of the illustrations, it's very hard to make  out what's going on.  However, whenever there is a female involved, whether  she's clothed or not in the book, the artist takes great care to make sure  she's nude and posed well.<br />This book is really for Conan enthusiasts  only; don't go out of your way to get it either!	2000-06-22
US	52437038	R172XDS3QC7WM4	0812514017	600041260	Conan The Destroyer	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The best of both worlds	The movie Conan the Destoyer was a disaster.  We all know that.  Fortunately, Robert Jordan was hired to novelize it, and was given a lot of leeway.  While he remains loyal to the plot and pacing of the movie, as  well as to the events of the first Conan film, Jordan changes dialogue,  character and location a little so that this book also fits in with the  saga of Conan stories.<br />For example, while in the movie Taramis was queen,  this contradicts Conan canon, so in the book she is princess, sister of  King Tiridates.  He also adds more action than is in the film, and explains  certain events which just sort of arbitrarily happen in the movie.  He  fills in the plotholes from the film nicely, and adds typical Conan gore  and sex, albeit not as much as in some of the other Conan stories.  Another  nice touch in this book is that he gives the characters roles.  In the  movie, Malak is just kind of there for no reason.  Here he is fleshed out a  litte.  Also, in the movie the wizard Akiro, who is brought along for his  magic, just sits around doing nothing; not so, here -- he's shooting  fireballs, setting wards, making potions.<br />Although this is certainly not  one of the better Conan novels, because of the limited script and story  Jordan had to write with, it certainly is fun and far better than the movie  of the same name.  If you're a Conan fan, or if you liked the first movie,  I definitely recommend this one.	2000-06-21
US	52437038	R3F9PDSCJEYM6V	0809900033	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Book 1)	Books	4	56	62	N	N	A great book.	This is one of the better of those epic fantasy sagas that are out there.  Strong writing, good characters and superior world-building are marred only by a lack of originality in the plot.<br />The story is essentially the same  as in most other fantasy trilogies since Lord of the Rings.  The invincible  evil guy is back from the dead and out for revenge, so the lowly,  unknowledgeable kid is suddenly thrust out, aided by a cadre of unlikely  characters, to find some sort of talisman to stop the evil dude before he  destroys the world, or at least messes it up too badly.  However, this  same-old story comes off very well due to the author's skill.<br />The  world-building in this story is very good.  The entire population of the  world doesn't all speak the same language, or have the same religion, or  get along with each other.  The author doesn't use the same old mix of  elves and dwarves and goblins so frequently encountered in other stories of  the sort.  Rather, we get new races which are essentially the same as the  familiar, but with some differences.<br />The characters are also superb.   Simon, the boy, is likable, believable, and pitiable, and his  characterization is not only good, but it's consistent. The characters grow  logically and believably in this story.  Of course, there are some of the  compulsory characters as well.  There's the witch-woman who's the  equivalent of Tolkien's Tom Bombadil, the mentor-figure who dies before he  can reveal too much, and the travelling companion who seems to know  everything.<br />The story proceeds logically, but at times it difficult to  get through.  The names of people and places are exotic and unneededly  difficult to pronounce.  And the story doesn't even really take off for  more than 200 pages.  But that was okay, because in that time we got  familiar with the land, the politics, Simon, the religion, and it didn't  get boring at all.  The religion is also familiar.  It's called Aedonism  (presumably liftedfrom EDEN), and is essentially the same as christianity,  except the martyr-figure was hung upside-down as well as crucified.  Also,  there are pagans who practice Udunism, which is the same, of course, as  real-world Odinism.<br />The biggest problem in this book was really the  editing.  Often the character Josua's name was misspelled Joshua, and there  were frequent other misspelling and grammatical mistakes.  Another slight  problem is that the problems were to obvious.  &quot;John went to face the  dragon carrying only a spear and a shield...and came out, dragon claw slung  over his shoulder, holding the sword Bright-Nail ahead of him.&quot;  For  some reason the characters don't see the problem immediately.<br />Still, this  was an extremely enjoyable, remarkable, real, vivid, and strong fantasy  world, and I am absolutely looking forward to reading the rest of the  series.  Though the book deserves five stars, I give it four for lack of  originality.	2000-06-09
US	52437038	R3IZSM4J9MMZN7	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not as good	Ruin, the third entry of the NEW JEDI ORDER series, isn't as good as the previous two installations.<br />The primary reason for this is that Siege, which was going to be the middle volume of this would be trilogy, was  cancelled, so a lot of ideas and events seemed kind of either forced or  unbased at the beginning of this volume.  However, a lot of cool stuff did  happen in this novel -- more on that later.<br />The biggest problem with this  book, and its predecessor Onslaught, was that they tried to say too much.   Though the publication of Siege would have helped, it wouldn't have  alleviated this problem.  The author crams a ton of events from a bunch of  characters' POV into a few chapters, and then the book skips a week until  the next big battle, skipping what would have been very interesting  character building times.  Another problem with this too much being said is  that certain smaller plotlines were just dropped.<br />I found myself not  liking the enemies, the Vong, in this book.  Vector Prime set them up  extremely well, alien and menacing, and, well...alien in thought and deed.   In this book, however, they're still theoretically obsessed with pain, but  they're too petty.  They've gone from a terrifying unified force to  political infighting among their own houses, petty acts of revenge, and are  just too human in their thought processes.<br />Most of the characters are in  character, but Luke and Corran are still often preachy-speechy, not  seemingly able to have a normal conversation, while the Solo kids, for the  most part very interesting characters, seem to be mostly just worry-warts  in this book.  While I wasn't expecting to see Han much, he gets more space  than some other characters -- Leia is sadly neglected, as is the new and  potentially very good character Danni Quee.  However, because it's  Stackpole, of course we get our myriad of familiar characters.  Good old  Kapp Dendo's back, Pelleaon, Chiss, Baron Fel is mentioned.  Which leadsme  to another interesting but completely undeveloped character -- Fel's son,  Jag.<br />The action isn't as good as in the other books -- in fact, most of  the big battle isn't seen from the POV of the fighters, but is instead  outlined after the fact.  While there are a few very neat sequences, such  as the destruction of the &quot;grand,&quot; and the defoliation, most of  the action scenes aren't what we've come to expect from Stackpole either.   And he effectively makes it impossible for any other author to use his  character Corran also.<br />Still, while the writing isn't so great, a lot of  very interesting and important events occur, and a lot of neat insights and  foresights are made.  While this book doesn't have that &quot;great  book&quot; feeling to it, it is definitely worth reading as one of the more  &quot;important&quot; in the Star Wars line.  I'll give it 3.5/5 stars.	2000-06-08
US	52437038	RVISC9BX9DKXF	0590520792	544452838	The Day of Reckoning (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 8)	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Not great	This latest edition of the Jedi Apprentice series was not so good as several that have gone before.  The main reason for this is that virtually nothing happened.  I read the book in &lt;1 hour, and I felt like it had  been pointless.  Though this is not the end of the series, the author has  gotten rid of the main focus of the whole thing.  This book also had the  same basic plot elements of those which have gone before -- a whole  planet's population is obsessed with one event, which obviously isn't that  great.  Despite all it's misgiving, the interactions between Obi-Wan and  Qui-Gon have gone back up to a level of excellence.  They finally get  somewhere new in their relationship, and they realize that said  relationship doesn't always have to be perfect.  This is a very good  character book, but the plot was quite lacking.	2000-06-08
US	52437038	R15D77QZJSKNPX	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	13	22	N	N	Don't believe the hype; it's okay	After all these weeks on the bestseller lists, I finally decided to pick up my brother's copy of HP&amp;tSS and see what all the fuss was about.  I didn't really go into it expecting a whole lot, and I didn't get  it.<br />Sure, this book is cute enough, with some likable interesting  characters, and a few fun and zany ideas, but it was really nothing  spectacular.  Harry himself -- famous of no fault of his own, he does  everything right, despite his lack of experience, seemingly by accident.  This book has a lot of very stereotypical kids, and a lot of evil, Roald  Dahl style grownups.<br />This book wasn't bad, and is pretty entertaining and  a quick read, but I have read many other, much better young readers books,  including Thief of Always by Clive Barker, Neverending Story by Michael  Ende, John Bellairs' House with a Clock in its Wall cycle, and Susan  Coopers' Dark is Rising cycle, not to mention the classic Lion, Witch and  Wardrobe series.<br />This book was an okay example of YA literature, but  it's nothing spectacular.  There's plenty of much better fare out there,  but there's also plenty worse.	2000-06-01
US	52437038	R144UHQ363W6WB	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surreal and Involving	This book was not a pleasure to read, nor did it have a particularly strong plot, but that's okay, because those aren't the point here.  This novel is about a character (the Gunslinger), and an idea (the world has  moved on).  The world is surreal and involving, invoking the imagination  and the mind.  This book is more than an anthology, but less than a  picaresque -- it's a series of occurences which are related but separate,  each further defining and revealing the gunslinger, his past, his world,  and his quest to find the mysterious &quot;man in black,&quot; who will  somehow guide him to the magical Dark Tower.  This is actually the first  Stephen King novel that I've read that I've liked.  It is alluring,  refreshing, and thought-provoking, marred only by spelling and grammatical  errors -- glammer rather than glamour, etc.	2000-06-01
US	52437038	R1SH37S91RG5LB	0345422589	34717978	Running With the Demon (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	8	20	N	N	Nothing new...	Don't get me wrong, there was nothing wrong with this book; there just didn't happen to be anything great about it anyway.  If you are a Brooks fan, or if you enjoy the genre, then this is an okay book to read, but  otherwise it's not really worth it.<br />Brooks' writing style leaves very  little to the imagination; he describes every person, place, and thing, at  least physically, very well.  Unfortunately, there isn't anything terribly  new,exciting, or innovative about this story.  The main character, Nest, is  typical, John Ross has potential but doesn't really do anything, the Demon  is an overconfident wimp, and the horrible Maentwrog isn't really so  horrible as he seems.  Pick is obnoxious and boring, the plot is just a  basic Good vs. Evil recap, except Brooks calls God &quot;the Word,&quot;  and Satan &quot;the Void.&quot;  The magic is kind of silly, it only works  by making eye contact with someone...so what are you supposed to do if  you're up against a blind guy?<br />Still, this is a mildly entertaining,  quick moving little book that is a good filler if you're bored.  Also to be  noted is that this is a complete story, you don't need to read the other  books in this trilogy for a complete picture.	2000-05-28
US	52437038	R3MYM6RSY6U25S	0345420675	60676393	The Essential Guide to Droids (Star Wars)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	At last, an essential 'Essential Guide'	The Essential Guide to Droids is better than the rest of the EG series thus far.  It has good pictures and relatively informative schematic drawings of each of the droids, with better art than has been seen yet in a  Guide.  It also has the obligatory listing and brief description of all the  major droid manufacturors in known.  Another helpful feature is that it  lists the droids according to their function, rather than in the standard  alphabetical order, a la EG to Weapons.  But the author goes beyond simply  describing each droid and its function.  He created background lore about  the droids, and their developers.  He doesn't make each droid individual,  but rather trases entire product lines, for example, he goes from the R1 to  the end of the R- series, creating the whole product line development,  etc...  What he doesn't do is spend the entire allotted text space for each  droid simply relating the adventures it has had.  This is a very helpful,  informative, and readable SW book, and I'm glad I bought it.	2000-05-27
US	52437038	R11WH4BURFLROJ	1569713200	32394328	Fall of the Sith Empire (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi)	Books	1	9	14	N	N	The absolute WORST SW comic	TOTJ: The Fall of the Sith Empire is absolutely the worst of all the SW comics yet published.  A jumbled mishmash of ultimately irrelevant events, clumsily constructed, boringly paced.  The art is in most cases slightly  better than Golden Age of the sith, but Odan-Urr is more bubble-headed and  silly looking than ever.  The action stinks, as do the politics, schemes of  the Sith lords, and other &quot;intrigues.&quot;<br />As I've said, this is  the worst SW comic yet available, and absolutely avoid it.  Take my word  for it -- don't waste your money on this comic.	2000-05-27
US	52437038	R1DCVX80URKHML	1569712298	537533288	The Golden Age of the Sith (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi)	Books	2	33	44	N	N	Absolutely awful...	This book is really only worth one star, but it got two only due to the fact that it is so much better than its sequel.  The art is very cluttered and drab, the script horrible, corny and with many grammatical mistakes.   The artists seemed to have a lot of trouble drawing the Odan-Urr character.   The plot is stupid and pointless, the characters uninteresting, and too  much time is wasted on plot points which really have no consequence.  The  Jedi are kinda wimpy whiners, and their lightsaber external power supplies  were silly.  The Sith were a bunch of stupid, bickering idiots, as were  Jori and Gav, who desperately need to get a life.<br />This is one of the very  worst SW comics available on the market, and I recommend that you stay away  from it.	2000-05-27
US	52437038	RZUCD4EV8DTQ	055357888X	701814267	Slave Ship (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 2)	Books	2	17	18	N	N	A little bit better and a whole lot worse...	This book continues the {mis}adventures started in Book 1 of the Bounty Hunter Wars Trilogy, The Mandalorian Armor with varying success.  Neelah is still on her quest to piece together her past, Fett and Bossk are still up  to same old, same old, Xizor and Mub'at are still plotting, and on it goes.   This book also follows the same storylines - one right after A New Hope  and one during Return of the Jedi - started in the first one.<br />First off  I'd like to recommend not reading this book immediately after finishing  Mandalorian Armor.  I tried to do that twice, and was utterly unable to get  into it.  The author assumes the reader hasn't read the first book, and  thus does too much recapping of previous events.  Jeter is almost  Lumley-esque in this regard.  An author should assume that when a reader  starts the second book in a trilogy that the reader is intelligent enough  to have read the first one.<br />The most annoying thing about this book is  what made the first book so difficult - many of the familiar characters and  very misrepresented.  Dengar is and emotional, cowardly idiot-wimp, Fett is  very talkative, prone to giving `idiot-sheet' speeches, Vader doesn't have  enough control over his emotions, etc...  However, there is some very good  character development in the new characters, which is overshadowed by their  mere boringness.<br />Whereas the assembler Kud'ar Mub'at was interesting in  the first book and Kuat unutterably boring, in this book their roles have  changed.  The arachnoid in this book is predictable, and boring, while Kuat  has many interesting thoughts and foresights.  Too many in fact.  This is  another problem with the book.  It is hard to read conversations when there  are two pages of though between each line of spoken dialogue, for some  reason it just doesn't flow that way.<br />The author also makes the mistake  of assuming the readers are inept.  He has to have the characters spell out  every vestige of every plan, and the dialogue often is overlong and rather  speechy.  The writer's writing style itself is quite basic, but he covers  that up with a lot of adjectives and big thesaurus words.  Another filler  that he uses is that he repeats physical descriptions and names over and  over again, as if afraid that the reader will forget basic stuff from  paragraph to paragraph.<br />Despite all its flaws, however, this is still a  pretty good and interesting tale, raising a lot of interesting points,  questions and views, while answering other which were opened in the first  book.  This should be read by fairly serious Star Wars fans, but it's not  `necessary' reading.	2000-05-23
US	52437038	R242853RC8MUK7	156971178X	670836733	Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Boring, silly, and elementary	I really enjoyed the first three classic Star Wars collections, and I was looking forward to this one.  Unfortunately, it's not related in any way to its predecessors.  Written and illustrated by different people, this book  is a travesty.<br />The biggest problem is that it's not one big story, but  rather a collection of unrelated tales.  Not only this, but the stories  don't fill in anything important, they're just random and unimportant  little encounters.  Also, each is both too short and too long.  Too short,  as it's not long enough to complete any ideas introduced, so often  conversations and such seem abreviated, but too long, because the stories  being unconnected seem to just jump from event to event and get boring to  read.<br />The dialogue is also elementary, especially the frequent use of the  word, &quot;Empire.&quot;  &quot;The empire stormtroopers, the empire  ships...&quot;  I believe when used as an adjective the proper form is  &quot;Imperial.&quot;  However, the characters are (relatively) in  character, although Leia looks too young.<br />The art is nothing to shout  about, but nor is it bad.  It's functional and relatively clear, no  complaints there.  However, the first story in the book is left completely  unresolved, which is a big no-no.<br />This book gets 2 stars instead of 1 for  two reasons -- one, there are a couple of interesting scenes, such as  Luke's reaction to returning to Tatooine; and two, Boba Fett's appearance.   Although he's a little out of character (his only appearance had been in  the Holiday Special when the comic was first released), he's just full of  surprises.<br />This one is for Star Wars completists only.	2000-05-17
US	52437038	RIEURAS1MR86X	1569712239	28069547	Splinter of the Mind's Eye (Star Wars)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent comic adaptation of Foster's novel	This comic is an excellent adaptation of Foster's good Star Wars novel.  It remains true to the story and dialogue of the book, while at the same time fleshing things out a little and making it easier to place in the  timeline, as well as giving the fans a few little goodies such as an  appearance from then-still-Captain Piett.<br />The script is good, as is the  artwork, to a point.  My only complaint in this area is in the first issue,  the contrast is pretty bad, with a bunch of dull browns and greens and the  pure black shirts.  However, it is refreshing to see Leia wearing something  other than that pure white for once, and the character representations are  pretty good, though Luke's features are occasionally overdone.<br />The fights  and lightsaber duels are fun, especially Leia's sparring with Vader, and  the bickering between Luke and Leia is interesting, and reminds us how  close they were before they learned about their common heritage.<br />This is  a fun, colorful, and faithful adaptation recommended to everyone.	2000-05-17
US	52437038	R4X7R5L1INKWL	006105769X	341605852	The Thief of Always	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Read this book, and then remind yourself it's meant for kids	The Thief of Always was a truly astounding book.  Although technically written for young readers, this book has something to say to more mature readers as well.  Written in Barker's almost poetic prose, but without his usual eroticism, gore and language, this book reads very easily and  quickly, with beautifully used language.  But it's got a message --  essentially, that fantasy isn't real.  I know it sounds obvious, but it can  be very easy to lose track of that.  This book is an extremely quick read  -- I finished it in one night, and it's also great fun.  The characters are  dynamic and interesting, the chapters short and to the point, and there are  a bunch of interesting illustrations by the author himself.  This book is a  definite must-read.  Don't be fooled by the length and the reading level.   This is an excellent book.	2000-05-17
US	52437038	R29NTZGLTU17MO	0886773687	475852404	Armor	Books	5	138	152	N	N	Simply fantastic...	Armor is, I believe, my favorite science fiction novel ever.  It follows to basic plotlines -- one is the story of a desperate soldier fighting an impossible war, the other from the point of view of an ex-pirate escaped  from prison who joined up with the wrong crew.  The two plots do  intertwine, but the plots aren't the appeal of this novel.<br />The author's  writing style is unique.  On the battlefield, you get that feeling which is  rarely accurately conveyed in words, the feeling of the rush, the  confusion, the horror of combat (I've never been in a combat situation, but  I like to pretend I can imagine what it is like).  But it's more than that.   Steakley questions the whole purpose of the war, the necessity and the  making of heroes, and the humanity and desperation of the soldiers.<br />When  you get to the the pirate's section, it switches over to a first person  POV, but instead of using one of the usual first person styles (either  normal third person with the word 'I' substited in a lot, or subtance-less  with a lot of jokes,) you really get into the head of the character, into  what makes him tick, and it's really a fantastic experience.<br />And even  with all the fantastic points necessarily made, this book never lets up.   There's nary a boring or dull moment, there are the obligatory plot-twists,  action sequences, etc..<br />This is simply a must read novel.	2000-05-15
US	52437038	R3T8X4JNMQOTRM	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Good book...	I really wanted to like this book.  And I did, but not because it was necessarily a great book.  I just really enjoy OSC's writing style.  This book starts and ends at the same point as the parallel Ender's Game, the  difference being that is Bean's story, not Ender's.  While at first I was a  little skeptical, I started the book and had a pleasant surprise.<br />Bean is  a completely different person from Ender, with different thinking proceses,  and different background, and different life philosophies.  The opening  chatpers in Rotterdam really set this book up and gave it a lot of  potential.  And then Bean got to Battle School.<br />After the initial couple  of exploratory chapters, the bulk of this book is just a rehash of Ender's  game.  Of course the author tried to disguise this, but that's what it was.   We had the same dialogue, the same situations, but what's new is the  author describes how everything looks in detail now, filling in a lot of  pages with that, and with the administrative side of BS.  It was readable,  even immediately after reading EG, but it was very redundant.  And then  after Ender left, not nearly enough time was spent developing Bean's  nemesis Achilles.  He arrives, is introduced and is finished with within a  chapter.<br />Even with all this, a lot of intereting questions are raised  during the book, especially concerning Beans' physiology.  Unfortunately,  this book not only doesn't answer these questions, but it seems to forget  about them as soon as they're asked, ending the story without facing any  important issues such as -- how will Bean react when he finds out how his  life will end?<br />Maybe we will get these answers in the forthcoming  &quot;Shadow of the Hegemon,&quot; but as this book stands, it doesn't  offer enough to rate more than three stars.  It's a relatively good book,  and I recommend reading it, but it's not really necessary after Ender's  Game.	2000-05-12
US	52437038	R1JEIP25EC3R2B	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant	This is one of the best science-fiction novels available.  All throughout, it is beautiful, interesting, stirring, and thought-provoking.<br />This edition opens with a new authors' introduction which is nearly as readable  as the novel itself (though not as much fun).  After this important but  non-essential preface, we are launched into Ender's story.  As the author  explains in the opening, this book is very straightforward; there aren't  any huge plot twists or hidden themes, and therein lies it's genius and  beauty.  Although most of us can't really be compared to Ender, most anyone  can probably relate to him, to his problems.  This is one of those classic  Bug-War novels, but this one isn't about the war, it's about the  boy.<br />This is one of those books that I was able to read twice within a  couple of months.  Orson Scott Card is such a compellingly gifted writer  that it is near impossible to put this book down.  This is one of those  essential, must-read books.  Buy it.	2000-05-12
US	52437038	R3R7JOW8JWL6MJ	1569714436	33900527	Star Wars Episode 1: Adventures	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Pleasant Surprise	I was really not looking forward to reading these stories, but as when they came out collected I picked them up, but I really didn't have very high hopes.  And then I read them.  It was quite a pleasant surprise.  This  is not one story, but rather 4 stories which take place during the events  of The Phantom Menace, as well as the little Episode 1 #1/2 which is kind  of silly.<br />The Anakin story was the best of the lot.  Taking place  (immediately) before the Jedi land on Tatooine, it shows us Anakin's  idealism, his dreams, and a glimpse of his life and friends.  The art,  while not spectacular, also fits his story very nicely.<br />Next came Queen  Amidala's tale.  Taking place right before the podrace, it is similar to  one of the levels of the TPM game.  A component of Anakin's pod is stolen,  so Amidala and Jar Jar take off to retrieve it.  The art wasn't very  interesting, not bad, but not good, and the whole story is pointless and  doesn't really fit into the whole.  There are a few neat character  interactions here, but not much.<br />Next come Qui-Gon.  The art was the best  of the lot, done by Robert Teranishi of &quot;Union&quot; fame.  It  portrays Watto's double crossing of Qui-Gon as he tries to collect on the  parts he needs and Anakin's freedom, and it also includes the scene cut out  of the movie where Anakin beats up the Rodian kid.  Plus, it has  interesting dialogue which sounded right.<br />Last came Obi-Wan, which was  the most dissapointing of the bunch.  The art was okay, but the story,  written by the guy who did the comic adaptation of the film, was  essentially Obi-Wan recapping the entire movie to Yoda, and once in a while  a little commentary by Yoda on Obi's performance.<br />And then came the 1/2  issue.  It had little segments by each of the four writer/illustrators of  the main stories.  The Anakin bit isn't real interesting, but the  assassination plot ties into the &quot;Emissaries to Malastare&quot;  plotline.  The Qui-gon basically just is a little epilogue to the existing  story, Obi-Wan is found reflecting on Ani's admirable Jedi traits, and the  Queen gets to know Jar Jar a little better on the way to  Coruscant.<br />Overall, a quick enjoyable, read.  Recommended.	2000-05-07
US	52437038	R19UGS2SG42851	1569713111	521342801	Death, Lies, and Treachery (Star Wars: Boba Fett)	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Mindless drivel	This book has high points and low points, but the latter, unfortunately, far exceed the former.  Which is a shame because Boba Fett has the potential to be such an interesting character and should fit right into the  comic book forum.  The art in this book was not horrible, but the color  scheme -- the same unnatural conglomeration of greens and yellows and reds  used in the Dark Empire series, is dull, ugly, and silly.  The characters,  especially the Hutts, are portrayed as nothing more than morons, and the  action (what action?), is slow, pointless and uninteresting.<br />There are a  few little bits of neat dialogue and interesting character insights into  the galaxy's most feared bounty hunter, but, just to give you a general  idea, it took me three or four tries before I could actually force myself  to read this one through to the end.  A part of this is because, even  though this book is long, it isn't as unified a series as most of the  others, and each of the three issues represented here are 48 pages, so they  start seeming long and drawn out in their own right.<br />If you absolutely  love Boba Fett, don't buy this one...it'll ruin him for you.  If you,  however, fancy yourself a Star Wars collector, then I guess this is a  necessary addition to your bookshelf.  And to end -- a chronological note.   This book is officially supposed to take place after Fett's exploits in  Dark Empire I &amp; II.	2000-05-07
US	52437038	R3BIY4UHD3ILB7	0671038850	757593145	A Stitch in Time (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine #27)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy	This is, I believe, the best Trek book I have read to date.  The plot is relatively simple -- it fills in Garak's life before Deep Space Nine, it fills in Garak's life and feelings in the events surrounding the Cardassian  invasion, and then it tells us about his efforts on the devastated planet  afterwards.<br />The beginning segment, at the school et cetera, was the  closest that Star Trek has gotten to &quot;Ender's Game.&quot;  While this  novel isn't that good, that was the general feeling I got as I was reading  it.  The characterisations were consistent and superb throughout the novel,  and to differentiate between the different plotlines, the author simply  uses different fonts.  It was a neat effect.<br />It is clear when reading  this book that Robinson is a fledgling author.  While the vocabulary is  okay, the sentence structure is somewhat elementary, but this doesn't  really hurt the novel, because it is a lot better than some of the drivel  we've seen before when it comes to ST books.<br />This book is written in a  series of first-person entries into Garak's journal, which he has arranged  into an interesting order and is sending to Dr. Bashir.  Although the  premise and writing are clear, the presentation was a little dissapointing.   These didn't feel like journal entries; I can't picture anyone writing a  journal looking like that.  <br />Still it was an interesting, sometimes  thought-provoking, and always fascinating view of life through Garak's  eyes.  Kudos to the author for a job well done!	2000-05-07
US	52437038	R37SDABR3NU2FH	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Could've been better	Rogue Planet was well written, with a lot of very good character insights, especially with Anakin but a couple with Old Ben as well. (though I don't think Bear is familiar with the Jedi Apprentice series) The writing was  pretty good, but all the descriptions were exceedingly detailed, so for all  the books 350 pages, not a whole lot happened. I wasn't expecting a huge  event of galactic relevance, but literally very little actually occured. I  liked Sienar, thought Tarkin was great, but thought that author could've  done better with Obi-Wan.<br />From the looks of it, this book was basically  sold as a &quot;Master and Apprentice&quot; story, but it doesn't really  tell that.  The master and apprentice don't interact as much as I would've  liked, but for all the time they spend together, instead of doing things  together, they sit around and think about their relationship.<br />A few of  the characters and species introduced were very interesting, and it was  clear when it came to technical explanations that the author had a clear  grasp of what he was talking about, but there really wasn't much use of the  Force at all.<br />As I said earlier, not much happened.  This story was  basically written as a New Jedi Order tie-in.  I mean, sure we get to see  Anakin's anger, but nothing really develops, it just kind of ends.  The  best part of the whole book was the coda at the end.<br />This is a  technically well-written book, but it was lacking somewhat in depth.  I  definitely recommend it to die-hard Star Wars fans, but to the casual  reader, this is probably not the best selection.	2000-05-03
US	52437038	R2VP7R8HK83U58	1569714010	37331384	Star Wars: Mara Jade - By the Emperor's Hand	Books	5	18	19	N	N	One of the best SW comics...	By the Emperor's Hand is a prime example of how to write a good comic.  The script is good, the plot well-done, the art good, and Mara isn't simply an illustration of the artist's wet-dream.  This is a thoroughly enjoyable  comic enabling us to get to know the light and dark of Mara Jade before she  hooks up with Karrde.  We see how quickly Isard was able to consolidate her  power, and as a plus this book involves the #0 edition, which was  previously only available online.  My only minor gripe about this work at  all is Mara's height.  The character is supposed to be a bout 5'3&quot;,  but in this she often looks 6 ft.+  Other than that, this is simply a  fantastic, fun comic.	2000-05-01
US	52437038	R17PUHIUAT79LJ	0590521012	642256462	Queen Amidala (Star Wars Episode 1, Journal #2)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The best journal	Whereas Anakin's journal was kind of lacking any depth and was really just another novelization of the movie, this book really gets into Amidala's character, her motivations, and what makes her tick.  It clears up all the questions about when she's the queen and when she's Padme, and she lets us  into her past a little.  The reason this only gets four stars, though, is  that I still don't understand the whole &quot;Journal&quot; premise -- why  write a series of books from the viewpoint of a character whose story we  already know well?  Additionally, I feel that the author, while she has a  very firm grasp of the Star Wars characters, lacks an understanding of the  way the SW universe works.  She keeps referring to &quot;the  galaxies,&quot; though last time I checked SW only takes place in  one.<br />Overall this is a well-written book for those that want to get to  know the queen better, but it is still just another retelling of TPM.	2000-04-30
US	52437038	R25G2WJ71D1Y3U	0439139414	479707096	Darth Maul (Star Wars Episode 1, Journal #3)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Not so great	I didn't get much out of Darth Maul's journal.  It seemed to me that this journal made him out to be a big hypocrite, as well as an arrogant fool.  There were a few tantalizing glimpses at his past, but not enough to  appease my curiosity about him, only enough to make me want more.  The  stuff that I wanted to know, (how he tracked the jedi) is left undisclosed,  while the author brings him into stupid battles with Togorian pirates and  Tusken raiders, stuff that shouldn't have happened.  I think that this book  was rather a waste of money, and I'd recomend not buying it.	2000-04-30
US	52437038	R1AKMBDIVYGO1V	0679778896	313231282	Complete Book of Catholic Colleges, 1998 Edition (Princeton Review Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pretty helpful at first	This is one of those typical, generic, several-thousand-page-long listings of every single college or university in the states.  As such, it is both a blessing and a curse.  For the very start of your college search, this will  be a handy guide, with colleges categorically grouped at the beginning, and  all the statistics and averages.  Unfortunately, you'll need another book  and visits as well as this one, because there is nothing about each school,  just the dry numbers.  This has been a consistently helpful book, it's just  too overwhelmingly huge to be helpful after a little while.	2000-04-26
US	52437038	R2D89Y9UPQKCET	0590519700	44124101	The Captive Temple (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 7)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A really interesting book...	The Captive Temple is a really good book.  While not terribly suspenseful, it has good action, good interaction, and it's fun to read. There are a couple of downpoints, however.  First, I wish the authors of SW books would  do their homework better.  Ki-Adi-Mundi should not have been in this book,  as he won't be introduced into the Jedi Council for another 12 years or so.   Also, there is no real sense of closure in this book, but it's not really  a cliffhanger ending either.  It just kind of ends.  Still, it's enjoyable,  and we get to see some new Jedi and some more of the Temple.  I'm  interested in seeing how this series will end.	2000-04-26
US	52437038	R3JAP2EAC0L9TM	0590519697	390606036	The Uncertain Path (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This series is heating up	This is easily the best of the Jedi Apprentice books yet.  It deals with both Obi-Wan's and Qui-Gon's emotions, pains, and fears, and it does it fairly well.  There are two different plot-lines, so the series is also  beginning to fit together as well.  It concludes the story from the  previous book and leads into the next one quite nicely.<br />The only problem  is that Qui-Gon's emotions just seem kind of cut-and-pasted from the first  book.<br />Other than that, I definitely recommend this one.	2000-04-26
US	52437038	R24ESJ12QFVXKA	0590519565	822378911	The Defenders of the Dead (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Back on track	Defenders of the Dead, the 5th Jedi Apprentice book, is a realblessing.  The first two were excellent, the third good but boring,and the fourth had degraded to pointless meandering. So it was with some skepticism that I finally pickup up this one.<br />At first I was dissappointed...But through the second half of the book, the character interactions between Master and Apprentice were getting interesting, things were actually happening, and we got a neat cliffhanger...  I've found myself enjoying the YA SW books again.<br />Recommended	2000-04-26
US	52437038	R19PBF8MOOH40Q	1569713596	485819518	Star Wars, Episode I - The Phantom Menace (Graphic Novel)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Too literal	The Star Wars film-to-comic adaptations have been notoriously bad, and this one is no exception.  Oh, the art isn't as drab as the previous adaptations, and it's not as hard to follow, but it's judt boring.  It  follows the film much too literally, and even though from some of the  pictures it's clear the artists didn't have the complete movie to work  from, even the poses and facial expressions like copied from the film.   <br />This would have been a much better comic if it had been combined with  the Episode I Adventures story into one big, comprehensive graphic novel,  but as it is, it's just boring.<br />Also, the art, which as I said isn't  dull, still isn't great.  I feel that there was a lot of unexploited  potential in this comic, and I don't understand why such a  visually-oriented film should be so hard to convert to the comic  medium.<br />Stay away from this one.	2000-04-26
US	52437038	R1PWFMXV9H12YK	1569710171	189728536	Classic Star Wars Vol. 1	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the best	It's strange, but Dark Horse Comics' Star Wars line seems to be degrading in quality over time. These early Classic Star Wars graphic novels, reprinting the comic series of the same name, which in return are reprinting in revised format the Star Wars comic strips of the early 80s,  are among the very best Star Wars comics available. Although sometimes a  little awkward because they were adapted from hundreds of individual 2-3  panel comic strips, the art is wonderful and all the characters and ships  look right, like they do in the films. The coloring is for the most part  very good, and the characters' dialogue also sounds right. These comics are  action packed, but they don't go over the line into stupidity as the Marvel  series tended to.<br />Also, these comics have a lot of the little  touches...the Luke/Han/Leia bickering that would carry on into Splinter of  the Mind's Eye and Empire Strikes Back, Luke reminiscing about Obi-Wan, and  little stuff like that. As I've stated, but it's worth reiterating, the art  is absolutely fantastic.<br />If you're going to buy any star wars comics, buy  this one and its two sequels. They are fun entertaining classics.	2000-04-25
US	52437038	R1MFFOMMICZEW1	0060182571	178905561	Modoc: The True Story of the Greatest Elephant That Ever Lived	Books	4	13	17	N	N	A very entertaining book...	Modoc is a very entertaining, interesting book.  It's one of those books that, especially in the first half, not only engages the reader but draws you into the book, makes you feel what Bram and Modoc are feeling.  The writing is as one comes to expect from a nonfiction work -- fairly  straightforward, not a very high reading level, and quick moving.<br />In  fact, I am very skeptical about the truthfulness of this book.  The author  says in the preface that this book takes from fact as well as hearsay and  tries to make it true, but some incidences seem that they've taken a step  beyond hearsay, into the realm of legends and myths.<br />My other complaint  about this book is the presentation of time.  The author didn't cite years  or ages except once or twice, and I found it extremely difficult to tell  how old Bram was, or what year or era the current part of the story was  in.<br />Still, it was if you are able to suspend disbelief, it is a very fun,  enjoyable, and at times heart-wrending story which is almost ruined by the  author's poem at the end.<br />I'd recommend reading this one.	2000-04-25
US	52437038	R14ZNIT5UQRDX6	0671007939	756748643	The 34th Rule (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, No. 23)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Best Trek novel...	I've said it before and I'll say it again...in terms of Trek books, I'm glad DS9 has ended.  That show had so much more depth and potential for interesting stories than the other Trek incarnations, and now that it's  over, authors are daring to do something relatively new in the overcrowded,  formulaic Trek series -- come up with a plot.<br />Until now, just about every  book is, so and so on the Enterprise must solve/find this before the galaxy  is destroyed.  Not only is it episodic and boring, but it's repetitive.   34th rule gives us a welcome break.  Spanning not the typical couple of  days, but a full 2-3 months, this book gives us the absolute best character  development we've seen yet in a book, and brings in racism and the Ferengi  like we've never seen them before.<br />There is some genuine suspense, and a  very interesting, if convoluted, little war.  And don't skip this book  thinking it's going to be a farce like the &quot;Ferengi episodes&quot; in  the show.  It's not, in fact, Quark is barely in the second part.<br />There's  also a running joke throughout the book where Ferengi that Armin has  previously portrayed in TNG show up.  The only negative point in this book  is that the whole Colonal Mitra thing is never really cleared up.  Other  than that it's fantastic.  Read it.	2000-04-22
US	52437038	R32EIB9TG3HYA1	0671880004	597347815	Stowaways (Star Trek Deep Space Nine)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	An absolute disgrace	Whereas the first book in this series, THE STAR GHOST, was at least readable, semi-likable, and understandable, this book is absolute rubbish.  It makes a mockery of Bashir, a mockery of Jake and Nog, a mockery of the  Bajorans, a mockery of the whole great show.  This is not only a bad book,  it is downright insulting.  Stay away from this one.	2000-04-22
US	52437038	R20PFWBD7TH7OH	0671024035	515725949	Inferno (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 3 of 3)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Excellent	It seems, when it comes to Star Trek books, that nothing is better than a good war story, except for a good time travel story which is well-handled.  Which is just what Inferno is.  Now that the series has ended, authors can  go to new extremes with DS9, which is exactly what they do. Excellent  character development.  Excellent action.  Excellent time-travel paradoxes  and devices.  Excellent semi-intelligably technobabble.  This is, I  believe, the very best of the published DS9 novels.  I don't know what to  say, other than, &quot;READ IT!&quot;  Do yourself a favor and read it.   You won't regret it.	2000-04-21
US	52437038	R3I4PO2W4TW361	0671568132	80194623	The Way of the Warrior (Star Trek Deep Space Nine)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Solid novelization of a good episode	This book faces the same problems as so many others like it...it tries to stretch a 90 minute television show to fill 275 pages of text.  Diane Carey, DS9's resident TV-book adapter, was called in once again to work on  Way of the Warrior, with mixed results.  While she can competently flesh  out the dialogue portions of a script, often the conversations, having been  designed for a TV audience, aren't very exciting.  This episode required a  lot of visual aids to work, and the book can't really provide.  None of the  characters are satisfactorily represented, instead, the obvious is simply  stretched out with details to fill the pages.  Granted, there are a few  scenes thrown into the book that didn't make the episode, but they aren't  really necessary and seemed kind of boring.  And when we got to the  highlight of Way of the Warrior, where all of DS9's new weapon's systems  are revealed, the book really skimps out and spends all of about 3 pages  describing the grand battle.  This book is about as good as can be  expected, but it doesn't really stand up to the standards set even by  other, original, Star Trek novels.	2000-04-21
US	52437038	RV9TVSXJ5O9SY	0380721651	366508547	The Tower of Beowulf	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting Take	I'm not quite sure what to make of this work.  It is an adaptation, in  novel form, of the epic of Beowulf.  It some ways, this works very well,  while in others it doesn't work well at all.  Parke Godwin specializes in  retelling legends (Robin Hood, Arthur, St. Patrick, Beowulf), in a  historical context, or at least a more realistic, lucid form then  usual.<br />This book taught me more about the Viking religion of Odinism than  I really wanted to know (at least, I think it did, as I have to take the  book's word that it is accurately portraying it).  It got into Grendel's  head, into the dragon's head, into Beowulf's head.  While they were all  dynamic characters, at times there just wasn't enough.  The story would  skip forward twenty years, and fill in the intervening, sometimes relevant,  events in just a few paragraphs.  By the same token, the book would build  up to confrontantions, only to have them be extremely short and  abbreviated.<br />Still, Godwin did a masterful job showing us what {he  thought} the values of sixth century northlanders were.  He also manages to  tie in Christian influences, add more depth to power stuggles, politics,  and international relations.  And the opening sentence says it all,  &quot;Before men reasoned such things could not happen, when all men knew  they could.&quot;<br />An interesting, at times slightly boring, but  ultimately satisfying book, this is worth reading if you can find it.	2000-04-18
US	52437038	R35WHSLZ5GQ67F	0671879995	619505000	The Star Ghost (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	OK for a YA book	The Star Ghost, while I guess acceptable to younger kids, is really not very good.  While technically it's ok, the author doesn't seem to have a  feel for DS9.  He makes Jake a bumbling fool who needs everything spelled  out for him, an idiot who can't figure out his algebra homework without  Nog's help, and who is constantly drinking &quot;chocolate malted&quot;s  and eating hamburgers or steak.  There is some interesting humor, but most  of it is just cheap-gags obviously meant for little kids, but which they  probably wouldn't find funny anyway.  The back story is minutely  interesting, but I'd recommend only buying this book if you're a collector	2000-04-18
US	52437038	R268NXSZH02509	0671024019	991707493	The Fall of Terok Nor (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 1 of 3)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Overall good, but a little slow	Fall of Terok Nor was a good, but not great, first book of the whole Millenium Saga.  My main complaint is that not much happens over the course of 400 pages.  While what does happen is well thought out and interesting,  it takes a long time to happen.  Sometimes this is good -- we get  interesting views, theories, etc., but sometimes it's the opposite.  At  times, it seemed the authors needed to prove that they know everything  about Star Trek, and have to write in unnecessary detail about things  past.<br />Fortunately, this was pretty good.  It's about time that ST writers  have done what they should've done long ago -- go above and beyond.  It  hasn't happened yet in other series, but DS9 finally is beginning to write  books that aren't just episodic entries, but add to and enhance the big  picture.  Books are also getting longer, with more detail and better  writing.  Keep it up DS9.<br />As long as it was, this book was a very quick  read, and all of the characterisations were quite good.  While not the best  of the Star Trek books, I am sufficiently motivated to read the other books  in the trilogy and play the forthcoming game based upon them, The Fallen.	2000-04-17
US	52437038	R1PSQ19EZPYCA2	0879517379	65217559	Stop Kiss: Trade Edition	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A good play	Stop, Kiss is a well thought out, well-written play about &quot;different ways people can love one another.&quot;  The story is told in a unique manner -- it starts with a scene from the present, before the climax, and  then the next scene takes place afterwards, and so on, so we never actually  see the event happen but learn about it before and after the fact.   Interestingly, confusingly as it may seem, this is a very effective  means.<br />The story is about two single New York women, one a teacher, the  other a traffic reporter, both of whom have had failed relationships with  others in the past.  Over time, they realize that they have fallen in love,  only to be physically assaulted by an outraged homophobe as they share  their first kiss.  The play shows us not only the events leading to this,  but all the trauma and drama afterwards.<br />While the play starts off a  little slowly, it escalates into an engaging, important, and relevant  picture of modern life and the attitudes and views surrounding  homosexuality in today's culture.  I recommend seeing this play if it comes  your way.	2000-04-17
US	52437038	R2PEV9V34S1WRA	0590010891	37466724	The Phantom Menace (Star Wars Episode I)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent for a YA adaptation	This book, though aimed at those of younger ages, actually comes off remarkably well in contrast to Terry Brooks' official tie-in novelization.  While this book doesn't go into as much technical depth or detail, I felt  that the author had much more of a feel for Episode I and Star Wars in  general than Terry Brooks did.<br />This book, in the first two pages, also  does what the movie and Brooks' novelization failed to -- It explains the  story comprehensibly, the Federation's motives etc...  This book also had a  lot more feeling, what the characters thought about one another, and it got  into Jar Jar's head, making him not quite so annoying.<br />This book in many  ways is a better adaptation of the film than Brooks' edition, but it's also  different, written from different perspectives.  If you are a die hard SW  fan, I recommend reading both, if not, stick with Brooks'.  This was good,  but it was aimed at kids, remember.	2000-04-12
US	52437038	RHZBVW8GJ1GNW	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun reading	This is an example of one of those books that is an absolutely delightful experience to read. Most of the time.  For the vast majority of the book, the writing is clever and fun and it is a joy to just sit down and absorb,  especially if you know something about Victorian times.  The characters are  fun, but retain reality, they are not all stereotypes (unless that, as is  the case with many of them, is the point).<br />Unfortunately, for most of the  book the plot seems to drag along a little, while it seems pretty rushed at  the end.  Maybe that was the author's desired effect, I don't know.  Also,  several of the little mysteries I had figured out several hundred pages  before Ned and Verity, while others I still didn't understand after the  full explanations.<br />Still, this book is a fantastically fun romp through  Victorian england, chaos theory, time travel, a cadre of fascinating  characters and situations (to say nothing of the dog, who debatably is the  funniest character in the book.)  Despite it's minor flaws, I really  enjoyed this one and am looking forward to reading more of the author's  work.	2000-04-11
US	52437038	R14HO4X0EO1ST	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	8	18	N	N	Not too impressive	For a great American classic, The Great Gatsby isn't too impressive.  While perfect reading for an english class, this book just doesn't have too much going for it for most contemporary readers.  Fitzgerald stuffed as  much symbolism as possible into such a short book, and gave us a pretty  good picture of &quot;the roaring twenties,&quot; but it was overall pretty  boring and pointless.  I think that this, like The Catcher in the Rye, is  one of those books where either you love it or you hate it.<br />The ending to  Gatsby was amazing, and really worked to fit the whole thing together, but  for me the book itself was just a dreadful waste of time to read.  I'd  recommend skipping this one.	2000-04-09
US	52437038	R10V40DMO3KRD2	067188459X	394484355	Fallen Heroes (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 5)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of the best	Fallen Heroes is easily the best DS9 book up through #16 in the series, quite possibly the best out of all of them.<br />Mr. ab Hugh has a pretty good grasp of the characters, a good sense of humor, and some great action.   This is a time-travel story, but it is carried of with skill.  The  Odo/Quark interactions are frequently excellent, and we get to see how the  characters act when pushed past the limit.  We see our heroes killed off,  one by one, and it doesn't once seem stupid or corny.<br />The action is  awesome, the bad guys menacing, the emotions convincing, the humor fun, and  a tip of the hat to the author for acknowledging other DS9 novels as well  as episodes.<br />If you are going to choose one DS9 book to read, make it  this one.	2000-04-07
US	52437038	R1PCN024XRM5J7	0671880306	560768900	The Big Game (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 4)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Nothing happens	This is a pretty good DS9 novel, and an interesting debut for this psuedonym, but the biggest problem is that it doesn't really go anywhere.<br />The obligatory crisis situation comes in the form of subspace  fluctuations which are threatening the power systems and structural  integrity of not only DS9, but of everything from Bajor to Cardassian  space.<br />The real plot of the book, however, revolves around the big poker  game, and all the cheats, countercheats, plots, and attitudes involved  therein. <br />While most of the characters are pretty well portrayed, there  is too much animosity between Kira and O'brian, and the authors use to many  ideas and characters from previous episodes.<br />This is an OK DS9 book, but  not one of the good ones.	2000-04-04
US	52437038	R3OQ5EVSD9CPGP	0671870831	633251490	The Siege (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good first effort	Taking place a little less than halfway through the first season of the show, The Siege is a strong first original novel in this series.  As David explains in the preface, he's going to make a few mistakes, as when he  started the book the show was only five episodes old and not everything was  that well developed yet.<br />And he was right.  Most of the characters did  fall a little out of character at times, but just as often they sounded  just as they do in the show.  There was a bunch of cool action, with  shapeshifters beating the heck out of each other, as well as out of  others.<br />This book is filled with David's usual Star Trek wit and humor.   In fact, my biggest complaint is about that.  While there is some good  ferengi humor, the author takes a lot of liberties with the ferengi culture  and lifestyle, and most of them are dead wrong.  This gets to be very  annoying with every few pages he talks about &quot;tradition ferengi  defensive crouch,&quot; &quot;a stance known as the ferengi...&quot;  etc.<br />Still, I recommend this book to DS9 fans.  This is what the episode  &quot;the adversary&quot; should have been.  Good work!	2000-04-04
US	52437038	RVPWHMP11IVDE	0345434390	42452496	The Essential Chronology (Star Wars)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Great Book	This is a great Star Wars book, but after waiting several years for it, my expectations of it grew huge, hence the 4-star rating.<br />This book is being released now pretty much to bring all the new Star Wars readers who are  starting with the New Jedi Order series up to speed on all the Bantam books  and comics, and it does a very good job.  Although it does focus just a  little too heavily on the movies, that's come to be expected. <br />But where  this book really comes in handy to Star Wars fanatics like me is the little  between-the-scenes stuff, filling in details about what was happening  politically and in the big picture between the books.<br />This book is also  filled with a bunch of incredible (and a few not-so-incredible)  illustrations by Bill Hughes.  These illustrate key scenes and characters  which we haven't seen before.  What this book does not try to do is fill in  what was happening day by day like so many online timelines, rather it  sticks to a history-textbook like feel so that we get the &quot;whole  picture&quot; instead of a bunch of little unrelated incidents.<br />Also,  this is good because Kevin Anderson's writing style and Wallace's previous  writing experience are more suited to this.  While Anderson's SW novels  seemed condescending at times because he made everything too obvious, here  that's the point.<br />I definitely recommend this book to any star wars fan,  new or old.	2000-04-04
US	52437038	RSXXF8DPME9KX	0671798588	302393929	Emissary (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good for a Star Trek novelization...	While this does not exactly qualify as great literature, for a Star Trek book it's pretty darned good.<br />Based on the pilot Episode of DS9, it pretty much sticks to the plot of the episode, but it doesn't make the  mistake so many do.  The author doesn't try to stretch the episode to fit  275 pages, but instead fills in all the extra with background for the  characters, both major and minor, so that we have a better idea of who we  will be seeing through the series.<br />It is relatively well written,  although a few scenes do fall flat on their face when the author fails to  adequately convey sarcasm or humor, and the prophets just didn't make the  transition from TV to novel very well.<br />All in all, if you are a DS9 fan,  this is worth reading.	2000-03-31
US	52437038	R3H9TLUKERE36A	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A lovely book	Ship of Magic was an excellent book, upholding the high standards of writing set by her previous &quot;Farseer&quot; trilogy, and surpassing it in many ways.  <br />One of the best things about her work is that she writes  about characters, not situations.  There are no world shattering battles or  anything, not even a profusion of physical fights at all, but she puts all  her characters through hell nonetheless.  And what an array of characters!   There are tons of characters, and not a one boring, uninteresting or flat.   They are all well fleshed out and interesting people, and it's amazing to  see how they all interact.<br />The writing style is lovely, although the  cover was a bit awkward. I won't go into plot details, because there are  simply far too many of them, but this book isn't really about the plot;  rather, the plot manages to fit into the lives of the Liveship Traders.<br />I  definitely recommend this book to everyone, and it sets the stage very  nicely for the rest of the trilogy.	2000-03-31
US	52437038	R1Y73ATB0LRIQZ	0553575643	714413063	Mad Ship (The Liveship Traders, Book 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Another great book...	I was torn between giving this book 4 and 5 stars, and ultimately decided on four because it's simply not as good as Ship of Magic.<br />That said, this is a truly excellent book.  A few of the little hints and the like dropped  at the beginning are a little too obvious, but one gets to wonder if that's  intentional.  <br />This book maintains the excellent characterization of the  previous volume, but far less actually happens in the book.  Rather, it's  more of a transitory volume: Book one set the stage, this one moves  everything to where it needs to be so that Ship of Destiny can come in and  tie things up with an amazing ending.<br />Characters are developing nicely,  and there is hope for the serpents now as well.  Definitely read this book  and this series; Hobb is a master artist.	2000-03-31
US	52437038	R2XEJISEMC5U1I	0345420683	157254808	The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons (Star Wars)	Books	2	18	22	N	N	Not quite essential...	The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons is definitely the least essential and worst of all of the guides. Instead of going into the culture and ecology of the planets like it should have, it simply tells us the story of  whatever adventure our heroes had there. We get that from reading the  novels! This book would have been so much neater if it had told us  something at all about life on these planets.<br />We don't even get a neat  map of the planets -- instead, a tiny black and white globe that isn't  helpful, with a 1&quot;x3&quot; little inset map of the area we have heard  most about in the books. Beneath that is a little illustration of a couple  of people from that planet, most of them pretty bad and unhelpful. And then  we get some more bad pictures of some native flora and fauna and some corny  captions beneath them. <br />This book is quite a waste of time and money!	2000-03-31
US	52437038	R2SMSZLUCI9VP9	0425083896	316168356	Clive Barker's Books of Blood 1	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The original Clive Barker	These stories represent Clive Barker's first published work; written back before he had developed the poetic writing style which is seen today.  Instand in these older works he uses more visceral, carnal imagery, and in  horror stories like these it's very effective.<br />The Book of Blood -- This  is the short little compulsory opening thing, not quite a story, but to big  to be called an introduction.  It sets up the premise for the rest of the  Books of Blood.<br />The Midnight Meat Train -- A very good story, it sets a  good standard for the rest of the stories in the series.  Quickly readable,  not to long, with enough blood-letting, gruesome images, awesome spectacles  and powerful imagery for anyone.<br />The Yattering and Jack -- This personaly  is my favorite story in the volume, though I'm not quite sure why.   Straying more towards comedy, it's an entertaining story about a lower  demon assigned to drive a man insane.  The only problem is that he is so  seemingly oblivious to what's going on, the Yattering doesn't know what to  do.  Fun, funny, light, amusing, interesting.  A great story.<br />Pig Blood  Blues -- This one doesn't have any monsters in the classic sense, it's not  a slasher story, but it is the most disturbing, scary story in the  collection.  UGGHH!  I don't get nightmares, but I can imagine recieving  one from this story.<br />Sex, Death, and Starshine -- This is an overlong,  pointless, boring story filled with sex, profanity, and little else.  Maybe  I'll like it better when I get older.  Time will tell, but at this point,  it's worthless.  It should have been the closing story, for two reasons. 1)  It left me completely uninspired to read the last one, and 2) It had a good  last-line-in-a-book type ending.<br />In the Hills, the Cities -- This is a  fun enjoyable story that doesn't work out if you think about it, but if you  just accept it and try to visualize it it's pretty darn cool.<br />Overall,  this is a very good book, marred bythe second to last story, and the  relatively short length.  If you like horror stories, I recommend it, but  for a better deal buy the collection of the first three books of blood.	2000-03-11
US	52437038	R16Z0S1NN4JYCY	0553578073	225750695	The Dark Glory War (A Prelude to the DragonCrown War Cycle)	Books	3	2	10	N	N	Not as good as his other stuff	I am a pretty avid fans of Mike Stackpole's works, and I think that his previous three Bantam fantasies have been very good. Since I have heard about this &quot;DragonCrown War Cycle&quot; several months ago I have been  eagerly awaiting the first book, and while it wasn't bad, I was quite  dissapointed. First of all, Stackpole's themes and characters are getting a  little old. Hawkin's is essentially the same person as Corran Horn from  X-wing or Nolan from Talion. Also, the author seems to have a fascination  with coupling members of different species romantically. Nothing wrong with  this; we've just seen it before.<br />The action scenes (and there were plenty  of them) were cool, neat, and typically well thought out, but they lacked  the harrowing type of feel from his previous works. At the beginning of  every conflict, there was never really any doubt who would win or what  would happen. Also, there weren't as many neat plot twists as we're used  to, and virtually none of Stackpole's interesting politics which I've grown  to know and love.<br />Still, the book is quite entertaining, without a whole  lot of depth. It's one of those books which would make an awesome movie.  The world doesn't seem as well built as in Stackpole's previous fantasies.  However, it's my understanding that Dark Glory War is to the rest of this  Cycle what Hobbit was to Lord of the Rings, so I still have high hopes for  the series.<br />There were nearly enough high points and interesting climaxes  near the end of the book to raise it to 4 stars, but not quite. To close,  I'd like to reiterate the oft-heard statement, &quot;don't judge a book by  its cover.&quot; All too true for most of Stackpole's works. His fantasies,  with the exception of Talion, just have very silly looking  covers.<br />Stackpole's also gotten rid of his cool, humorous about the  author section.  On an end note, did anyone else notice that the temerices  were identical to the raptors from Jurassic Park except that they had  wings?	2000-03-09
US	52437038	R3JZV9QC9QW9KU	0517189186	302380866	Clan of the Cave Bear (Earth's Children)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A really good book	Although this book kind of falls apart if you try to look at it as a realistic view of how human life was 35,000 years ago, If you view it simply as a fantasy novel it turns into a very good book.<br />The story is  not especially original (outsider is adopted into a society, big changes  start to occur, etc...), but it is carried off very well.  But where the  book really stands out is in the detailed, sometimes almost too detailed,  picture of the world.  The author clearly knows the world, the animals, the  plants, the conditions exceptionally well, and only rarely does she really  go overboard in the detailing of this information.<br />Although at times the  structure is kind of awkward, especially when characters are thinking, it  is a fascinating, absorbing and hard-to-put-down book with likeable,  understandable characters.<br />I definately recommend this book to everyone.	2000-03-08
US	52437038	R3IBSAJ72BLEE8	156971441X	181784533	Star Wars - Shadows of the Empire: Evolution	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Very good at first glance	At first glance, Shadows of the Empire: Evolution is a very good and interesting book.  The continuing story of Guri, Xizor's second in command, is supplemented by good artwork and not too much boring dialogue, and  complimented by plenty of action.<br />Unfortunately, when you look at it  again a bunch of little details crop up.  First of all, why didn't Xizor's  niece have that huge spinal ridge thingie?  It has been established that  all Falleen, male and female, do have it, so why didn't she?  So she would  fit into her human costume? So she would be easier to draw?<br />Next is  another minor technical thing.  Supposedly taking place immediately after  Return of the Jedi, but before Vandelhelm Mission and all that, it just  doesn't fit in properly.  If they'd made it take place during the same time  as the early Rogue Squadron comics it would have been much better.<br />All  the females in the comic for some reason are unrealistic.  The Pikkel  sisters, who have mastered Teras Kasi among various other martial arts, are  in pretty good condition, but are too buxom.  In my experience, most female  dancers and athletes don't have such huge breasts.  Leia is also too  slender and buxom, as is the Falleen, and all of the other women in the  comic.  I know it's probably more fun for the illustrator's that way, but  it's unrealistic.<br />The inclusion of Dash in this comic was kind of a corny  stretch as well, and the Imperials at the beginning were kind of random.   Since when does a Star Destroyer on random patrol randomly open fire on a  civilian ship legitimately passing through the sector?  And since when can  a &quot;full spread&quot; of all of five or six proton torpedoes destroy an  ImpStar?  Oh well.<br />I applaud the authors for some other details, though.   All of the aurebesh really translates, it's not just random lines, and all  of the art is pretty good.  There wasn't excessive dialogue, but there was  some good humor, and a neat look at Guri's past.Besides the fact that the  story is completely inconsequential in the grand {Star Wars} scheme of  things, it's quite nice.<br />If you want some nice Star Wars eye candy with  lots of action and a few questions answered, this is for you.  Otherwise,  skip it.	2000-03-07
US	52437038	RHLF5V8B3Z8C7	0822214946	709044833	Three Viewings	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absolutely Oustanding!	I'd like to start off by saying that I haven't actually read this play; I've seen it.  And it was absolutely amazing.<br />I'd never heard of it, but I preorder tickets for all of the shows at a local theatre, and this was  the most recent.  <br />Basically it is three different monologues, with the  only things tying them together the tragedy of the tales, and the fact that  they take place in a funeral home (hence the name &quot;Three  Viewings&quot;).  <br />They are so perfectly written, so tragic and yet  humorous that you don't know whether to laugh or cry yet somehow end up  doing both.  This is the most outstanding, touching, wonderful play that  I've seen, and I've seen quite a few.<br />Buy the book, and you'll be doing  yourself a favor.  But if the play is every showing near you, get tickets  immediately.  It is an absolutely outstanding, unforgettable drama.	2000-03-01
US	52437038	R360L7USZCFKEK	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	2	13	22	N	N	OK	Into the Wild didn't really do anything for me.  When I picked it up, I was expecting a detailed accounting of Chris's trek through the wilderness, the mistakes and discoveries he made, more like Into Thin Air or any other  of the countless true adventure stories.  I should have paid heed to the  note on the back cover -- &quot;travel essay.&quot;<br />The suspense in this  book isn't about whether or not Chris will die; we know from the front  cover that he will.  Instead, this is an investigation of his life leading  up to his death.  But it just isn't that interesting.  It seems as if the  author wrote this book more because he was obssessed with Chris than  because he had a story to tell.<br />Despite all this, I'm sure that I could  have enjoyed it if it had been just the first couple chapters and the last  6.  The rest are just a boring, confusing length of the stories of people  who in any small way were connected to Chris.  It jumps around, providing  mundane details which have nothing to do with anything.<br />Another part of  the reason I didn't enjoy this book -- not only were the events not  terrible exciting (I didn't expect them to be), but I couldn't relate to  Chris at all, and that is an important aspect of a book about a person.   The point of the book is to detail how the author thinks he can relate to  Chris.<br />The story isn't in chronological order, and the jumps back and  forth, the constand barrage of little anecdotes, hypotheses et cetera,  turns into a boring mishmash of events which I quickly found myself not  caring about.<br />This book was well-written and informative, and I've no  question that I could have gotten more out of it if I felt I could relate  to Chris, but I couldn't and the book turned out to be a waste of time.	2000-03-01
US	52437038	R34L8XRYKCP22	0812564936	989902780	Queen of Demons: The second book in the epic saga of 'The Lord of the Isles'	Books	3	11	12	N	N	If you liked the first, you'll like this one.	Queen of Demons is a big pot full of ups and downs, very high points and points with no point.<br />In this second book in the epic saga of The Lord of the Isles, David Drake maintains the high quality of writing displayed in  the first book.  The characters and action sequences are all well thought  out, and I was as impressed in this book as in the previous one at the  author's grasp of whatever he happens to be writing about.<br />The  characters, too, are all unique and interesting, most especially the  siblings Cashel and Ilna.  They are all well fleshed out and well rounded.   Unfortunately, the author usually picks one point about a character and  just sticks with it through the whole book.  We don't need to be reminded  every 5 pages that Ilna wants to redeem herself and that she doesn't lie,  or that Cashel takes things at his own pace and believes in doing things  right.<br />There was more variation in enemies and monsters in this book than  the last one, although there was a lesser quantity of them.  The scope of  the magic and the consequences of the characters' actions are much larger  here though.  In this book, the author is definitely aiming more for the  &quot;epic&quot; feel which he skimped on in the first volume.<br />In terms  of structure, this book is almost too much like the first.  The four main  characters set out, get separated immediately, have their own adventure and  meet their own friends, and then coincidentally (or not) all arrive at the  same place and time to overcome the great evil of the story.  This presents  some of the best and worst points of the series.<br />It is good in that each  volume is complete, has a definite story and closure so that you don't feel  that you need to drudge through each of the previous volumes each time the  next one comes out.  Unfortunately, this is also a bit of a downside as  this doesn't feel as much like an epic saga as a bunch of small, seldom  related adventures.<br />In terms of plot, well,that is where this book  skimped the most.  Until halfway through the book, it didn't have one.   Finally you learn what every character is trying to accomplish, but for the  first half of the book it's very unclear.  Sharina and Garric set out with  specific goals in mind, and Ilna's story follows a pretty logical course,  but Cashel's adventure, until 2/3 of the way through the book, are  irrelevant, illogical, and unexplained.  And he really needs Mellie  back.<br />One of Drake's greatest strengths in this book is the secondary  characters.  All are strong, likeable, and unique.  Unfortunately, he seems  to be one of those authors who feels it necessary to get rid of them all at  the end of every book, just leaving the core group of characters to get on  with their adventures in the next one.<br />One last comment before I conclude  -- I noticed in this book a lot of similarities, in creatures and plot  devices, to work done by Robert E. Howard in his Conan and Kull stories.   Also, one scene near the end sounded a lot like a certain moment in the  movie Willow.<br />Overall, this book was an enjoyable, fast paced set of  adventures for each character.  Not quite picaresque, but close.  The  characters were a joy to read, the writing was strong and clear.  Unfortunately, the plot was lacking and much of the action was irrelevant.   If you enjoyed Lord of the Isles, you'll enjoy this, but it's not great.  I  liked it enough that I'll probably pick up #3 in paperback.	2000-02-27
US	52437038	R3HUBI563JL41Y	1569711836	449271981	Star Wars: Shadows Of The Empire (Star Wars (Dark Horse))	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Intersting filler-in for the novel	Whereas the Shadows of the Empire novel was focused on the normal character, the Rebels and Vader and the new Xizor, the comic's point of view is mainly that of the scum of the galaxy, the bounty hunters and Jabba  and his goons.  That is where it makes its biggest mistake -- it can't  stand alone.<br />It's laudible that they tried to give an alternate  perspective in the comic so fans wouldn't feel like they were just  rereading the novel, but on the other hand it doesn't make sense unless  you've read the book.  Characters just show up and aren't explained, and  events that are quite big in the story can't be emphasized enough in the  comic due to space restraints.  It would have been a much better idea to  instead of paralleling the novel, to adapt it entirely to comic form, plus  add the bounty hunter stuff.<br />The art was mixed.  The droids, Fett, Vader  and most of the bounty hunters looked good, but the more humaniform  characters looked messed up and unrecognizable.  Leia and Lando in  particular looked bad, Dash was strange, and Xizor looked horrible; he  wasn't even consistent from panel to panel.<br />Fortunately, the locations  were pretty good, but where this comic shined were the spacefights,  dogfights which would do a Rogue Squadron comic proud.  There was some  interesting use of tactics, all the ships were drawn very well, and the  lighting effects and engine glow were very good.<br />Fett was another problem  in this book.  He talked too much.  We already know he's one of those  silent but deadly guys; why authors feel the need to have him give corny  one-liners, talk to himself and gloat to his enemies is beyond me.  The  dialogue throughout the comic was decent, but there were quite a few corny  or unecessary lines.<br />A last note -- this comic was released before it was  quite established exactly what bothans looked like, so they are kind of  messed up looking.<br />As a companion for the novel, this comic worked fine,  but as a stand-alone piece, it is below par.  If you like Star Wars, or if  you're a big Shadows fan, then I recommend this one.  If not, don't bother.	2000-02-27
US	52437038	R2BVXNYFHNRQWB	1569714150	205643494	Star Wars: Vader's Quest	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Very good	This is definitely one of the better of the recent Star Wars comic story arcs. As a matter of fact, it is one of the best ones yet.<br />This comic answers the question how exactly did Darth Vader find out who that pilot  was.  Taking place about three weeks after A New Hope, this also has Vader  and Luke's first face-to-face meeting.<br />This comic has witty dialogue, and  art that at first seems very simple but grows on you.  It turns out to be  very effective, and the lightsaber blades and blaster bolts look  superb.<br />This is a very refreshing Star Wars comic, better than a lot of  the recent drivel such as Leviathan, Evolution, and Crimson Empire II.  I  definitely recommend this one.<br />It also introduces the character Mala  Mala, who's backstory can be seen in issue #2 of Dark Horse's Chewbacca  miniseries.	2000-02-25
US	52437038	R2E7ZKMYCXTYCO	0812522400	629033060	Lord of the Isles	Books	4	19	25	N	N	Not bad	Contrary to most of the more recent reviews, I thought that this book was pretty good, despite a few flaws and misdirections.<br />I'll go through the problems first.  Several times throughout the book, and I think this was either an oversight of the editor or a printing problem, a word in a  sentence such as &quot;an&quot; or &quot;of&quot; would be conspicuously  missing, and occasionally a phrase would be repeated, &quot;he sheathed the  sheathed the sword.&quot;  However, despite these flaws the writing was  good and strong, with more than adequate descriptive power, and it was  clear.<br />Another little problem was the lack of a well-established goal.   While Lord of the Isles would be a good name for the entire saga, this book  really didn't have anything to do with the Lord of the Isles.  Events occur  in this book which the characters are forced to react to, but there is no  definite goal, it just sort of plays out until it reaches a logical place  to stop.<br />The third main point is the enemies/monsters/demons.  All sound  the same. &quot;It had short, stumpy legs, but the length of its torso/body  made it almost as tall as Cashel.  It also had extraordinarily long  arms/teeth.&quot;  It seems that everything evil or carnivorous now has, by  definition, to look the same.<br />I'm not sure if this next point is good or  bad, but I'm really starting to notice a big trend in these fantasy saga.   A young shepherd finds out he's gonna rule the world, and in fact his  ancestor is in his head.  He has a huge, steadfast friend, an older, wiser  guide, and several beautiful young women competing for his affections.   Sound like Jordan's Wheel of Time series or Goodkind's Sword of Truth?  I  thought so.<br />On the plus side, this world stands out in that not every  woman is &quot;one of the most beautiful women he'd ever seen.&quot;  Also,  the characters are well defined, and in various situations, they react  according to their character, instead of leaping through some hidden logic  to the perfect answer.  Unfortunately, they never seem to get into  situations which require brilliant logic leaps to get out of; instead, it's  usually a &quot;slugging&quot; match.<br />Still, the action and various  locales, including Hell, are very well defined and sometimes quite  original, and the author clearly knows what he's talking about in nearly  every field.  The magic is mostly consistent, but I found myself wondering  why some wizards always needed sacrifices for to work their magic, while  Tenoctris was always able just to wave her grass around and accomplish  anything.<br />Another unfortunate occurance is that the two best main  characters leave/die before the end of the book.<br />The bottom line --  Realizing that this book isn't a complete story but the beginning of  &quot;the epic saga of the Lord of the Isles,&quot; I can look past the  rudimentary plot or lack thereof.  The characters, locations, tools, and  events all work very well, and the writing is good.  While this book isn't  as &quot;truly brilliant&quot; as all the rave reviews posted on the cover  claim, it is still fun and promising start to Drake's new series.	2000-02-24
US	52437038	RXF4FEXCN23HH	1569711097	673137159	In Deadly Pursuit (Classic Star Wars, Volume One)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best	It's strange, but Dark Horse Comics' Star Wars line seems to be degrading in quality over time.  These early Classic Star Wars graphic novels, reprinting the comic series of the same name, which in return are  reprinting in revised format the Star Wars comic strips of the early 80s,  are among the very best Star Wars comics available.<br />Although sometimes a  little awkward because they were adapted from hundreds of individual 2-3  panel comic strips, the art is wonderful and all the characters and ships  look right, like they do in the films.  The coloring is for the most part  very good, and the characters' dialogue also sounds right.  These comics  are action packed, but they don't go over the line into stupidity as the  Marvel series tended to.<br />Also, these comics have a lot of the little  touches...the Luke/Han/Leia bickering that would carry on into Splinter of  the Mind's Eye and Empire Strikes Back, Luke reminiscing about Obi-Wan, and  little stuff like that.  As I've stated, but it's worth reiterating, the  art is absolutely fantastic.<br />If you're going to buy any star wars comics,  buy this one and its two sequels.  They are fun entertaining classics.	2000-02-21
US	52437038	R3L089MQTOE3AD	0139797092	248933310	Trigonometry	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Terrible	This is an absolutely dreadful book.  While it does state the principles and/or formulae you need to know at the beginning of each chapter, the resultant mess is nearly impossible to work through.  The explanations and  sample problems are confusingly explained and walked through, and even  after going over them several times, I would find myself with no idea how  to go about solving a problem.<br />In fact, after going through a chapter,  you realize that it would have saved a lot of time and effort just flipping  to the chapter summary, where they outline everything you need to know, so  even if you still don't understand the materiel, at least you'll have it to  work with.<br />There are plenty of other, and much better, trig books on the  market.  Don't buy this one.	2000-02-16
US	52437038	R2VX2JF436LO7D	0132172747	2337705	Documents of American History, Volume 1: to 1898	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very helpful	This book is basically a collection of legal documents collected from the arrival in America in 1492 up until 1898, showing the growth and evolution of our country through those people who lived through it.<br />This book is  definately not to be read through, but instead used as a reference source.   No one is going to sit down and read this thing cover to cover, but it's a  GOD when you need primary sources for a term paper.<br />The documents, while  not always listed in absolutely chronological order, are, nevertheless put  forth in a very logical manner.  Also, preceding each one is a little bit  of background on the circumstances under which it was written and the  author of the piece.	2000-02-16
US	52437038	R2S8YPCPX4UNIC	0399143963	954832518	Rebel Agent (Star Wars: Dark Forces)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not as good as the others	The first Dark Forces &quot;graphic story album,&quot; Soldier for the Empire, was a very good and beautifully illustrated book. Unfortunately, the sequel falls short in many ways.<br />Picking up the action again after  the Kyle Katarn's exploits in the Dark Forces computer game, this book  takes place somewhere between Return of the Jedi and the conquest of  Coruscant in the X-Wing novels. It details the first half of the Dark  Forces II: Jedi Knight computer game, instead of being more of an original  story like the Soldier, with mixed results.<br />At times, the action is like  the last chapter of Soldier, almost word for word out of the game. At other  times though, it's hard to place what's going on. Also, for obvious  reasons, the book can't parallel the game detail for detail.  There are  more characters and details filled in between missions.<br />While the first  book was well and succinctly written, this one is far too much so; it would  have benefitted immeasurably from another fifty pages or so of materiel.   Kyle, even with the extra stuff going on not in the game, seems to jump  from adventure to adventure, unevenly able to call on the Force, and  sometimes the chapters and situations seem to lose focus, or switch POVs  without breaks.  It's kind of annoying.<br />And the ease with which Kyle  takes out Pic and Gorc...straight out of Indiana Jones...just whip out the  blaster and shoot the guy.  It was kind of silly.<br />Probably the most  dissatisfying bit about this book though is the quality of illustrations.   While by no means bad, the art can't stand up with Dorman's literal  renditions in Jedi Knight, and certainly isn't even comparable to William's  beautiful renditions in Soldier for the Empire.<br />Despite all this, the  book isn't that bad.  It still has a bunch of cool action, evil enemies,  witty dialogue, and even though it is very incomplete, the you know that  there'll be a sequel to wind everything up.<br />This book ent so good, but  I'm looking forward to the third one.	2000-02-13
US	52437038	RGLE6OAQ9XYKN	0671695320	84858049	The Legacy of Heorot (Heorot, No 1)	Books	3	14	22	N	N	By the books	While this was a very fast paced book with a lot of interesting parts to it, it didn't turn out very well.  <br />The writing, especially in the first hundred pages, was very dry, to the point where I was thinking that it  would be more fun to read yesterday's newspaper.  While the language and  writing style did improve somewhat afterward, it was still a little lacking  all throughout the novel.  While there were a few riveting or very real  scenes, the dialogue pretty much didn't sound real; I couldn't picture real  people saying those lines. Just as a quick example...the dedication --  &quot;we are indebted to so and so for translating this poem.  we are  indebted to so and so for the maps&quot;.  Straight from the heart. Moving  on.<br />Again, this book was extremely fast paced, but there were quite a few  flaws.  A few of the characters were very well rounded, but I found most of  the main characters to be quite flat.  Many of the &quot;plot twists&quot;  weren't very surprising, I had guessed the ecological situation long before  all these &quot;geniuses&quot; came up with it.<br />Also, while all the  little details were technically correct, it was too &quot;by the book&quot;  for a science-fiction action/adventure novel.  Everything was predictably  placed, and the &quot;grendels&quot; failed to inspire much awe or fear in  me.<br />While I agree to an extent with the reviewer before me ranting about  the ecological concerns, these didn't really bother me so much...If I moved  to another planet, I wouldn't care if the carnivores that tried to eat me  and my kids were there first, I'd shoot now and try to get along peacefully  later too.<br />Was this book great? No.  Was it good, fast, and a fun way to  spend an afternoon or three? Yes.  Don't look for any deep messages here,  but if you want a quick shoot-em-up romp with some sex and technology on  the side, you'll find it here.	2000-02-10
US	52437038	R2YNH5AUFQGK33	078670621X	104115308	Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage	Books	5	345	359	N	N	Incredible	This is an absolutely amazing and true accounting of the 1914 Antarctic expedition gone to hell.  It is clear that the author did an incredible amount of research, and though this book doesn't read like a novel, its  presentation is much more powerful this way, giving a panoramic view of the  whole terrible and desperate situation of these men.<br />I don't have any  experience even comparable to what these men went through, the closest I've  ever come is rowing down the coast of Maine in the summer in a 30 foot  pulling boat, and I'll tell you, this guy gets every detail.<br />Anyway, an  absolutely incredible look at human endurance, at what a person will go  through if he must.  I definitely recommend this book to everyone.  <br />One  note...make sure the version you buy or get at the library has expedition  photographer Hurley's photographs in it.  Some paperback editions don't,  and you're really missing part of the experience without them.	2000-02-10
US	52437038	R1QM0T5R2Z5RZ7	156971410X	229980756	Star Wars-Crimson Empire: Council of Blood, Volume 2	Books	2	16	17	N	N	Too much	While the first Crimson Empire tale was very good and effective, this one fails in many areas.<br />The main problem with this issues is that they had so many subplots and characters, it was like they were trying to compress a thick novel into a comic book series. There was so much going on they couldn't focus enough on any one theme and develop it.<br />Also, as much as I didn't like Sinn, heroic rebel commander, being portrayed as a complete slut in the first one, I hate it even worse when they change how a character looks from one comic to another, in the same way that it annoys me when different actors play the same character in different movies.<br />This book did have pretty good renditions of ships, and it was cool how they introduced mysterious Nom Anor, one of the main baddies in the New Jedi Order series.  Unfortunately, although the ship and landscape art was mostly very well done, the people were badly rendered and disproportianate. The Hutt was tiny sometimes, normal sized at others, Sinn's face was a complete disaster, none of the carry-overs from the first issue looked right, and most of the time the faces were just too thick and disgusting.<br />Another thing, the alien races on the Imp Council!  Not only were several of those species known to be sided with the New Republic, plus the fact that the Empire is all anti-aliens, makes this not work.  Plus several of those species are so obscure I'm not sure why'd they'd have a member on the council.  Oh well.<br />Still, I am definitely looking forward to CE III, as it is going to tie in pretty heavily to NJO...<br />If you really love Star Wars, buy this one, but if you're just a moderate fan, I'd recommend skipping it over.	2000-02-05
US	52437038	R1R48EKGY4E6B7	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Good Star Wars Book	Dark Tide I: Onslaught was pretty good for a Star Wars book.  It was certainly fast paced, with lots of cool action and neat surprises, but in some respects it was kind of dissapointing.  For one, it is extremely short  (Star Trek length).  <br />Also, a common problem with Stackpole is that the  dialogue sounds too contrived, too &quot;speechy&quot; and not real enough.   The military action and humor were all great though.<br />Another gripe I  have -- The New Jedi Order was supposed to be this big, dark event for Star  Wars, and Stackpole himself has said that Dark Tide would be very dark and  bloody and have lots of death and destruction and havoc, but it really  didn't.  The good guys keep winning, and things don't seem to bad for them  yet.<br />As always, Stackpole's ability to thread multiple plotlines together  has worked very well, possibly, maybe a little too well, but that can't  really be avoided.  The characterization of the new main characters was  great, although IMHO there wasn't enough of Danni or the Vong.<br />A very  promising continuation of the beginning of NJO, I just wish it had been  more of a dark cliffhanger than resolving the main story yet again.	2000-02-04
US	52437038	RSO79FKJJON6P	0451454537	956464735	Grunts	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Great Fun to Read	Well, I already reviewed this book, but somehow that review never got posted, and since I'm to lazy to rewrite the whole thing, here're the basics.<br />--Great fun to read (great humor and lots of action, especially  for fantasy and military fans)<br />--C(h)ock full of adult content and  situations and language<br />--Borrowed lots from movie  &quot;Aliens&quot;<br />--Lost my interest in middle of book 3<br />--Recommended	2000-02-03
US	52437038	RFVAAZAP29VEJ	0440361494	702795347	Venus on the Half Shell	Books	5	3	12	N	N	The funniest book you'll ever read, and more...	Written by Kurt Vonnegut under the name of his alter-ego Kilgore Trout, this book is an absolute masterpiece.  When I first read it a couple of years ago, I thought it was simply a great comedy and parody of a sci-fi  novel, but now with a few more years' perspective (and I like to think)  maturity, I have found much meaning which I missed the first time  around.<br />This book comments on everything -- morals, ethics, philosophy,  religion, creation, sexism, racism, politics, government, friendship, love,  the past, the future, and everything.  And it isn't boring, it's instead  typical of Vonnegut in that it's a fast-paced romp through the materiel.   This book will leave you rolling on the floor laughing, while at the same  time reconsidering your point of view on everything.<br />This book is a must  read, and I hope they reprint it soon.	2000-02-03
US	52437038	R36LI8XWI769KC	0441116302	246293031	Conan (Conan #1)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	A quick fun read	This book starts out with an introduction by coauthor de Camp and a letter written by Howard which aren't stories but provide some background on Howard and his style, etcetera.<br />Then there is &quot;The Hyborian  Age,&quot; by Howard, which isn't a story but a history of the world that  Conan lives in.  This doesn't read like a story but is nifty if you're a  Conan lover.<br />Next come the stories.<br />Opening is &quot;The Thing in the  Crypt,&quot; (de Camp &amp; Carter), which isn't an especially bad story,  just completely pointless -- it spends thirty pages detailing how Conan  acquires his sword. (They tried to incorporate this one into the  movie)<br />This is followed by &quot;The Tower of the Elephant,&quot;  (Howard), which is an excellent story and a great example of Howard's  writing in any genre. (They also incorporated this story into the  movie)<br />&quot;The Hall of the Dead,&quot; (de Camp and Howard) comes next,  written by de Camp based on an outline by Howard. It's an ok story with  some cool stuff, but Conan being attacked by a 50-foot acid spitting slug?  Come on!<br />&quot;The God in the Bowl&quot; (Howard) is a whodunnit  detective story which is pretty interesting, but has nothing really to  contribute to the Conan saga.<br />&quot;Rogues in the House&quot; (Howard) is  probably the best story in this volume, with political intrigue, sorcerors,  dank warrens beneath trap-infested houses and everything.<br />&quot;The Hand  of Nergal&quot; is said to be by de Camp and Howard, but it doesn't say how  exactly Howard was connected to the story.  It's pretty cool, and it helps  to define and develop Conan's story.<br />&quot;The City of Skulls&quot; is  the final story in this book, written by Carter &amp; de Camp, and while it  has some action, it really sucks.<br />Overall, this is a worthy book.  The  stories by Howard are really good, those by the others are at least  readable, and it gives a pretty good look at Conan's early life.	2000-01-31
US	52437038	RRBPIFSLOZ3HW	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	168	183	N	N	I Am Legend	This novel, although short, is absolutely outstanding.<br />While this book is advertised as one of the best vampire novels of all time, it is really not about the vampires at all, but about a man.  This is the story of what  one man can endure, what his limits are, how much he can accept, and what  will happen when he goes too far.<br />Yes, there are vampires in the book,  and yes, he does hunt them by day, but it's not an action story; the  suspense is more pyschological. This is also one of the more different  vampire books you will ever read.<br />Somewhat short and written precisely,  words are not wasted here, and the beauty and simplicity of the language is  part of the appeal that this book holds.  Robert Neville is an amazingly  real character, and the ending of this book is perfect.  While I have not  yet read the multiple other stories by Matheson in this volume, I Am Legend  alone is worth the cover price.	2000-01-28
US	52437038	R2MQBXJJ5UIRGQ	1569712549	288639006	Han Solo at Stars' End  (Star Wars)	Books	2	1	8	N	N	It's Okay	While the plot and the script follow the excellent book upon which this is based fairly well, the end results fall short of the mark.<br />Jessa looks kinda like she's described in the book, but the other characters aren't  really recognizable, even Han and Chewie.  While the ship renditions are  fairly good, the only thing they got right was the Falcon -- there weren't  any TIEs in the novel, and those little fighters in the comic aren't  Z-95s.<br />The art is too childish, and the words are too big, and the  coloring and detail is a bit dull.  Still, all of this is somewhat overcome  by a fairly exciting story and a fast pace.  <br />Another plus is the low  price. If you're into Star Wars, it's worth the money.	2000-01-26
US	52437038	RXJX21R390NPU	1569711291	569678641	Battle of the Bounty Hunters (Star Wars) [Pop-up Comic Book]	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Appalling	I'm sure glad I got this book as a gift, because I don't like thinking that I'd have wasted money on it.  UGGHHH!<br />For 18 bucks, you get 12 pages of horrible art, and a mediocre-at-best cover illustration.  This is a  depiction Boba Fett ariving in Tatooine orbit with Solo, getting attacked  by IG-88, and getting Solo to Jabba. Unfortunately, 95% of the story,  dialogue, etc has been cut out.  They counted, I guess, on it being  &quot;The Pop-Up Comic Book&quot; to make this good.  It wasn't.  A  horrible waste of money and resources.<br />If I were the rest of you, I  wouldn't touch this stinker with a ten-foot cattle prod!	2000-01-26
US	52437038	R1KSYBT5XT1ZHS	0345423011	853187734	Star Wars: The Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Amazing	This book would have been more appropriately titled Star Wars: The Art of Shadows of the Empire.<br />While this book showcases most if not all of the Star Wars art by the Brothers Hildebrandt, it centers on the SotE story.   It has all of their many paintings depicting the story in chronological  order, along with quotes from the book, photos of their various models and  references, early sketches, them at work, and commentary on their creative  process.  All of the art is beautifully rendered on the glossy  pages.<br />After the are depicting the main story, there are 10 large  portraits, one each of all the main characters, which are, if anything,  more breathtaking than the story paintings, followed by six renditions of  the characters' ships, including the stinger and virago.  After that there  are six paintings of Boba Fetts adventures in the comics and six paintings  of Dash's adventures in the game.  If you are a star wars or SotE or just a  sci-fi art enthusiast, you should have this book.  Forget the SotE comic,  this one is much more well done and it is simply stunning.<br />I place very  high recommendation on this book.	2000-01-25
US	52437038	R9ULQEME9VTR3	156971407X	865545581	Star Wars - Boba Fett: Enemy of the Empire	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A Quick Read	I wasn't really looking forward to reading this after the travesty that was Death, Lies, and Treachery, but I'm one of those die-hard Star Wars fans who reads everything.<br />Let me start off with the problems inherent in  a Boba Fett centered story -- a great Star Wars story requires at least one  of two things, cool space battles or cool jedi battles.  Fett can provide  neither.  That was one (of many) of the failings of D,L,&amp;T, as well as  the main failing of the Bounty Hunter Wars book series.  Another problem is  that Fett is a very quiet, withdrawn individual, and that can get boring  after a short time.<br />That all said, this was a nifty comic.  While the  story was a little silly, the characters were fun if not taken seriously,  and the art, though kind of weird and more suited to a cartoon than a  comic, was functional if not exactly inspiring.<br />There just wasn't much  lasting value...it's fun once, but not really worth all the money.  Also,  this book doesn't have the cool preface by a cool author that most of the  collected editions do, but it does have the cover gallery which some  lack.<br />The real gem of this collection is Boba Fett #1/2 -- Salvage.  A  really good story.  This and Twin Engines of Destruction really demonstrate  that Fett is much better suited to one-shots than miniseries.  A fun,  excellently drawn, clever little gem of a comic, this book is almost worth  buying for this little unrelated story alone.<br />Almost...	2000-01-23
US	52437038	R1CD2DNTSO5I	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Robert Jordan am ok	Robert Jordan is am the most bad gramer awther in the wurld and they shouldnt make buks liik thisun bicos it is long and words and i dont undrestanding it much.	2000-01-23
US	52437038	R1UCZYYJVMZNWK	1569712131	807758765	A New Hope (Star Wars)	Books	1	5	13	N	N	Trash!	I tend to rate books against other books of their type, so while I may give both a Star Wars book and Dune 5 stars, there is no comparison, Dune is better. By the same token, I won't judge a comic as harshly as a novel,  because I have different and lower expectations of it.<br />Even so, this  Graphic Novel is a complete waste of time, paper, and money.  The interior  art is pretty bad, and the character renderings uninspired, and 3PO has way  too much freedom of movement.  They put way too much effort into throwing  in every last little detail added for the special edition of the film, and  it was obvious.<br />This comic was EXTREMELY dependant on the reader having  seen the movie.  The dialogue and scenes jumped around so much that if I  didn't know the movie virtually by heart, I'd be lost by only a couple of  pages into the book.  Though the lettering itself is good, it can't make up  for the confusing, erratic clips of dialogue.<br />The Millenium Falcon looked  messed up, and the TIE Fighters looked pitifully small and smashed. This is  a horribly bad adaptation of a great film.  The only good part of this book  is getting to see Dormans' fabulous cover work at the end.<br />Don't buy this  book!	2000-01-22
US	52437038	RG3KBHYR8616F	0062700367	992667023	Asimov's Chronology of the World: The History of the World From the Big Bang to Modern Times	Books	5	85	85	N	N	A Must-Have	If you have any interest at all in the world you live in, you should have this book.  Basically chronicling the complete history of the world from its creation until 1945, it is an amazing, concise, helpful, fun quick  referance.<br />If you are reading a historical novel and want to check how  accurate it is, this book'll help you.  Want to know what else was going on  in the world during this war or that revolution? Just open 'er up!<br />I have  this book handy at almost all times when I am reading.  It is  compartmentalized into sections concerning individual countries or groups,  not just a big mishmash of everything going on all at once, and it reads  very easily, not like a school history textbook.  It includes a nifty  &quot;outline&quot; timeline at the beginning, too, so you can just skim it  over without reading every word.<br />An amazingly hefty, helpful, well  researched book that no one should be without.	2000-01-22
US	52437038	RV5N43G8BZPIC	0030743176	93649478	Modern Physics	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Good Look at Modern Physics	This is the textbook we were issued when we first started taking Physics in High School, and now, going through it, I see how good it is.  While I was taking the course, It seemed pretty bad, as the equations were often  written in ways which varied from the ones our teacher taught us, and the  pictures and diagrams weren't as neat as the ones he came up with.<br />Now,  looking back on this book, all the theories, concepts, and laws are clearly  stated, the diagrams if not wonderfully innovative are efficient and  helpful, and the practice problems are intelligent, and not surpassing the  level to which you have read.<br />The only problem is that this book is  getting slightly dated, but it is still a clear, concise look at the  concepts of modern physics.	2000-01-20
US	52437038	RD3QOLC9W4FMJ	0380709953	680974242	Sherwood	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Intrigueing	This book has a lot of ups and downs.  From the start, it is clear that the author has done a huge amount of research on the time period (the Norman invasion of England in 1066), which helps most of the time to lend a  real air to the story.  Unfortunately, this occassionaly got a bit awkward  when I as a reader wasn't as familiar with the history and lost track of  what was going on.<br />The first hundred-odd pages of the book are very  difficult to get through, switching once in a while briefly to a first  person segment so you could see inside a characters head, or sometimes  covering a few years in a few pages, so it feels like you are reading a  history textbook.<br />Once you get past those first hundred pages, though,  things really get going.  Unfortunately, most of the characters aren't as  real as the rich setting they were placed in.  The most sympathetic  character, Little John, is the one whome we see the least, Ralf, the  bad-guy, seems like the good guy, and Robin is just running around making  spontaneous random decisions.  Other than those and Father Beorn, the  characters are pretty if not dull, at least static and predictable.<br />In  this regard, the book is somewhat like a Tom Clancy book.  The author has  the characters in there as a necessity, but he loses sight of them somewhat  in favor of the story, the action, the big picture.  The reader really gets  a feel for what's going on all across the country all the time, the overall  motivations if not for individuals then for the decisions of an entire  population, and a feel for how life was lived in eleventh century  England.<br />The reason I didn't give this book a three was that it kept me  interested and informed.  After getting through those first hundred pages,  the book really doesn't want to be put down.  If you enjoy history, I  recommend this one, but if you're in it for the swords and sworcery, I'd  skip it over.	2000-01-19
US	52437038	R26NLHFVTO1V0Z	0140074317	997417953	The Neverending Story	Books	5	50	56	N	N	A Real Gem	The Neverending Story is truly an outstanding book.  First published I believe in German, it has been translated into English quite adeptly, although there are a few cases of awkward wording resulting from this.  Other than that, this is a nearly perfect book.  Bear in mind one thing  while you're reading though -- while it is great, it is also a children's  book, so don't go looking for really challenging vocabulary and adult  themes.  <br />I picked up this book in Zany Brainy maybe seven years ago, and  I have read it quite a few times since then.  I find something new in it  every time, and it never gets old.  It stays just as beautiful and perfect  each time.<br />If you've seen the first two movies, they are both based on  this books, the second only nominally, but even the first hardly does the  book justice.  This, despite being a children's book, has themes that apply  all throughout life, and its simplicity is wonderfully refreshing after so  many other books which try to impress you with their incredibly flashy  wording and daunting size.  The pictures at the beginning of each chapter  are skillfully sketched, and this is just overall an amazing work of  art.<br />No matter what your age, buy this book.  Buy it for yourself. Buy it  for your kids and read it to them.  You won't be dissapointed.<br />Another  fascinating book is Ende's Momo, which unfortunately only seems available  in spanish at the moment, but keep your eyes out for it.	2000-01-15
US	52437038	R1IV156T7TWQ0B	073880360X	631274743	Battle-Chasers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Original Book...	I have read more than my share of fantasy novels. I have, being a fantasy enthusiast, of course have read Tolkien's _Lord of the Rings_, but mostly I have stuck to and preferred the other type of fantasy, the \\"epic fantasy\\",  more human-centered, rather than filled with all sorts of creatures such as  dwarves and elves and orcs and trolls. However, after receiving an e-mail  from the author, I decided to try this book out. I waited the 4-6 weeks for  it to be shipped, and when it arrived I was a little skeptical due to the  relatively small size of the book, as I am used to the more daunting size  of such as Jordan's _Wheel of Time_ and Martin's _Song of Ice and Fire_.  However, when I started reading, my concerns were quickly assuaged. <br />The  story, instead of taking place over months or years like most books,  instead takes place over the course of one night. The setting -- the  aftermath of a three day long battle between the city of Obo and the evil  Circle of Death. _Battle-Chasers_ is the story of the survivors of the  battle, as well as the thieves, healers, and others who come afterwards  (the &quot;battle-chasers&quot;). <br />All of the characters are true  characters, not mono-dimensional stereotypes of their races. The  protagonists are a courageous dwarf, Ringlerun, my favorite character, a  giant elf who has made it his life's quest to oppose the evil Circle of  Death, and the magic-endowed blind albino cleric Chawk with his owl, Vu,  there to help any survivors, as well as to fulfill a more personal quest.  Against them are a voluptuous vampire, a Circle of Death sorcerer, an  insane assassin {aptly described in earlier reviews}, a huge dragon, and  the various evils and minions that they can summon. <br />However, there is no  character that is all bad. All of the 'bad guys' have real motivations and  feelings and fears, and there is not a single character that remains  static. The writing is aided incredibly by the incredible illustrations at  key points throughout the book.<br />While this story takes place on a  battlefield full of dead soldiers and creatures, the gore is emphasized  when necessary but never overdone, and the weapons, charms and spells are,  for the most part, convincing and not too common.  For example, there is  not an overabundance of such common items as fireballs and whatnot, and  there are quite a few enchantments that I have personally not seen used  before.<br />Perhaps the best thing about this novel, though, is its  originality. While the author was obviously influenced by other sources,  such as Tolkien, the cited AD&amp;D, and a couple other various sources,  there was no feeling of, &quot;I've read this before, I know what's coming,  and how could they permit this virtual plagiarism to be published.&quot;  <br />Granted, there were a few little flaws, mostly small grammatical errors  and passages that could have used a little smoothing over, but when aren't  there? <br />Overall, this is a great debut novel from a promising new author,  and I, for one, am eagerly awaiting his new book due out next summer.<br />Buy  this one; you won't regret it.	2000-01-06
US	52437038	R3M5WMS1ZEI98U	0345421884	287990437	Dragonshadow (Winterlands, No. 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Wow...	Typically, sequels are not as good as their predecessors, but there certainly are exceptions.  This is one of them. Not only does it equal _Dragonsbane_ on every count, it surpasses it.  This isn't your typical  sequel, though.  It is clear that when Hambly wrote _Dragonsbane_ 15 years  ago that she wasn't planning on continuing the story of her protagonists.  I, for one, am glad that she did.<br />In this book, we find that a mage is  enslaving dragons by means unknown, and capturing mages to control them.   John Aversin and Jenny Waynest, trying to figure out what's going on and  how to stop it, enlist the aid of Morkeleb, the greatest of the dragons,  and discover that the evil mage is controling the other witches and dragons  by infesting them with demons.  John, Jenny, Morkeleb and their allies then  predictable set out to stop this threat.<br />What is unpredictable is how the  author goes about doing this. More on that later.<br />Let me note now that in  the beginning of the book I was a little concerned with a couple  discrepencies from the first book.  The horse Battlehammer, belonging to  Gareth in the first book, now belongs to John, but as this book takes place  a couple of years later, this can be forgiven.  There is also an evident  change in John's character and speaking style.<br />Moving on, I was pleased  to find out that this book was written from both John and Jenny's POV's as  opposed to solely Jenny's as in the first book.  This allowed for much  greater character development and depth.  <br />Also new features in this book  are the antagonists, the demons.  This book shows chillingly clearly what  temptations can lead to letting a demon into your head, and the devastating  results of such.  The demons are original, not your run of the mill goat  legged horned red monstrosity, but are nonetheless chillingly  disturbing.<br />This book starts out more slowly than its predecessor, but it  sure makes up for that going into the book.  There's a lot of action, from  fortresses under siege to underwater battles to all kinds of things.   There're also new contraptions, as John has constructed a hot-air balloon  type thing and a mechanism called an Urchin, which is basically a  dragon-slaying tank.<br />This book is really wonderfully written, fast paced,  with three-dimensional characters and creatures all the way around,  revelations that ring disturbingly true, and tragic losses to all sides.   Jeez...talk about ending on a down note.  I think that with the ending  Hambly was trying to create suicidal urges in her readers.  Although this  novel is complete, and it doesn't end with a cliffhanger, there is a sequel  promised at the end, so keep your eyes open.<br />My biggest gripe with this  book had nothing to do with the book really, but the fact that in the last  few years Del Rey has started using really cheap paper that won't last for  a real long time; added to the fact that their books are a little more  expensive than some of the opposition, I think they'd better get their act  together.<br />Highly Recommended.	2000-01-06
US	52437038	R227GFOM84UQGW	0345349393	322859927	Dragonsbane (Winterlands)	Books	4	20	25	N	N	A good book, but...	Dragonsbane.  The bane of Dragons in the land is Lord John Aversin, the only living man who's slain one.  This is all well and good, except the book isn't about him.<br />This book is written entirely from the mage Jenny  Waynest's POV.  DOn't get me wrong, this isn't a first person novel, but we  never get a viewpoint other than Jenny's.  In some ways this is good.  It  allows for excellent character development within Jenny herself, which we  get.<br />Unfortunately, this style of writing also leaves most of the other  characters pretty mono-dimensional.  Halfway through the book, we know how  John is going to react to this crisis, we know that Gareth wants to help  out but is convinced he is too cowardly. We know Trey is sweet and sincere.  And to this novel's detriment, none of these characters really evolve over  the course of the novel.<br />In many other ways, though, this is a very good  book.  I've read a couple of Hambly's newer books, and it seems to me that  instead of getting better, her writing style has diminished over the years.   In her newer works, the action is unclear and indistinct, and the passages  are often extraneous and boring.  Not so in Dragonsbane.  I never felt lost  as to who was doing what, even when the dragon was flying around in combat  with a giant monster and spells were flying all over the place.  And it  doesn't spend time describing every excrutiating detail of our heroes  moving south.  Although at first it seems a little jumpy, it is really much  to the novel's benefit that the author keeps the book on the action, and  doesn't feel it necessary to write a thousand page book.<br />As to the plot  and pacing, the entire book was extremely well paced, flying right along,  but the reader isn't quite sure where exactly the plot is heading until  most of the way through the book.<br />Now on to the real stars of the book --  the dragons.  <br />God's Grandmother!  Finally here are some believable  dragons with believeable motives.This book finally explains why dragons  are drawn to gold.  And the physics of the dragon itself are more clearly  defined and better than any dragons which I have read before.<br />There were,  however, a couple of little irkers.  First, the constant talking about the  spectacles.  Okay, we get the idea that the characters are wearing glasses  already!  Sheesh.  And also, how many times was &quot;The key to magic is  magic; to be a mage you must be a mage&quot; repeated in this novel?  Talk  about overkill. <br />Still, overall it was a very fun read with some awesome  action scenes.  I'd recommend picking this one up.	2000-01-04
US	52437038	R1H89DGD5XHYT2	0446602825	939177062	The Baker's Boy (Book of Words) (Vol I)	Books	3	16	22	N	N	I enjoyed it, but...	This novel had a typical story, that of a common kitchen boy who discovers he has magical powers and reasons out that for everyone's good he must run away from home. A noble girl's escape from the castle coincides with his,  and they flee together. Meanwhile, both an evil sorceror and the girl's  father are sending out mercenaries and soldiers to find them, and far away  a knight is sent out to find the boy and thus fulfill an ancient prophecy.  This was a very fast paced book, never dwelling on a given character more  than three or four pages before switching to the next POV.  It doesn't  spend huge amounts of time on every little detail like some other authors,  yet somehow the story doesn't seem to progress that much over the 552  pages.  Also, there is a large amount of rape and sadism, especially  towards women, which surprised me, considering the author is herself a  woman. This dissapointed me a little, because even though it is not a  children's book, I know that many youngsters do pick up fantasy novels to  read; I was among them.  (Maybe there should be some kind of rating system  for books like on computer games and movies and cds) However, there was no  real strong language. I really don't have that much to say...to sum up, if  you want a sex-riddled but fast paced and decently fun book, pick this one  up. Don't be expecting large amounts of sword and sworcery though, as you  won't find them. The characters are pretty believable, although they don't  grow much.<br />P.S. -- I almost forgot about the archbishop!  An excellent  character. Always sampling some new and exotic food, torturing his servant  with tedious tasks, and concocting new schemes and plots to get him ahead  in the world. A wonderful character. Also look out for Bodger and Grift.	1999-12-31
US	52437038	RFUD2YGZGCWR7	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I really wanted to like it...	This book is so typical of Chricton's work -- it excels in some places, but is really a let down in others. As always, it's obvious that the author did a great deal of research before writing this book, both into quantum  mechanics and medieval France. However, this time I did't feel as if I  really got to know anything about the new technology. Jurassic Park taught  me about cloning, Andromeda Strain taught me about Virii, Sphere taught me  about water pressure, etc...I still feel I have no idea what 'quantum foam'  is. This is due mostly to the Chricton contradicting himself quite. He says  that the characters aren't actually going back in time, but that they are  going to one of infinite other universes which is exactly like ancient  france was, yet somehow when things are dropped there, they end up in  archeological digs in our universe. He tries to justify this with some  analogy about lights shining through slits, but it doesn't sit right. Also,  you know who's going to make it back almost from page one.  In the  obligatory preface, it says that it ends up with one person missing and two  injured, and there are a total of four who go back...it's not real  difficult to figure out. The characters are very flat, given one or two  personality traits apiece as well as maybe a line of physical description.  Only one character actually evolves at all through the book, and the  ancient 'bad guy' doesn't remain a mystery real long. Despite all this  bashing, though, I must say that I really enjoyed this book. It was well  written, a definite page turner. The action was well written, the suspense  was pretty good most of the time, and you could tell the author had a  pretty good idea what ancient castles and monastaries looked like. I'd  recommend picking this one up if you're looking for some good, entertaining  reading, but not if you're looking for strong, original literature.	1999-11-30
US	52437038	R1USAL0DHC818	0312868146	930271191	Necroscope: Invaders (Necroscope: E-Branch Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	This one is just what I've been waiting for. I loved the inital trilogy, DeadSpeak bored me, DeadSpawn was great.  The Vampire world trilogy i didn't get beyond book One in, because book 2 was just a retelling of book  one.  The Lost years books were also great, but they were a little lighter  than the previous ones.  This book is amazing. The Vampires aren't  completely new ideas, but they are new in how they act and how they're  developed.  I think this is an excellent book.	1999-07-04
US	52437038	RMFF56SZV69CT	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Its not a stand alone book	I thought that this was actually a very good book.  The reason it was released like this was:  time.  Granted, it would have been better if the first half were tacked onto the end of book 7, and the second half, plus  book nine, where book 8.  However, nobody wanted to wait 3-4 years for  seven, so they released it, and now we have to take the filler which is  good, just not action packed and great like the ones with the mane story  elements.  But think of book nine...Tar Valon under siege...Rand confronts  the creator...Matt meets daughter of the nine moons...Perrin confronts  (again) the whitecloaks, this time w/ an army, and if we're lucky, the Aiel  will shatter themselves into a fraction of a fraction against the Seanchan.	1999-04-08
US	52437038	R8TK770DLEYR9	0553561138	597192501	Eyes of Silver	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Good, but needs some editing	This book is great, like all of Mr.  Stackpole's books.  My one complaint is name editing.  In the first line of the first chapter, the main character, Robin Drury, had his name typod as Robert Drury, and then it  went on to talk about Robin.  I went over it a couple times, because I had  no idea where Robert had gone or who this Robin guy was	1999-02-17
US	52437038	R2Q86XTES6IC4S	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	This book was quite good.	This was a very good book.  It was well written, and had a few cool scenes.  I admit that it was short, nothing relevant happened in it, and  Mat was missing, but it was not so horrible.  I have been reading the PoD  reviews as they come out, and there is a point many people seem to be  missing.   Many people are comparing these books to Goodkind and Martin and  Eddings, etc... and complaining that nothing seems to happen.  Youve got to  remeber this.  This is a series which will probably go to 11 or 12 volumes.   All of them are pretty long.  This is nearing the end, it's winding up for  a big climax.  If he threw things into book 8 without all the buildup which  is in book 8, people would complain that things were happening to abruptly.   Also, this is a big epic saga.  Mr.  Goodkind's work is very good too, but  its different.  First of all, it was originally slated to be a four book  work.  Granted, based on his success he is now writing a fifth, but the  point remains, more happens in most of Goodkind's books because he knew  that he wanted to limit his plot to 4 books.  Also, his books aren't as  epic as Jordan's.  I hate to say it, but Mr. Goodkind is Star Trek to  Robert Jordan's Star Wars.  While Jordan is writing a big, ongoing series,  Goodkind's books follow the formula, a problem pops up, the characters get  separated, the problem is resolved.  Each book is pretty much a complete  story.  Its a completely different case from Jordan.  And for those of You  comparing Jordan to George R. R. Martin, his Song of Ice and Fire is also  slated to be 4 books only.  Also, you must remember that A Game of Thrones  is his first book in the series.  PoD is the Eight in WoT.  The first 4 or  5 of Jordan's books were a lot faster paced than numbers 67&amp;8.  You  gotta remember that.  Robert Jordan is not all of these other authors.   He's working on a big, coherent story which ultimately will be able to read  like a 10,000 page book.  If you look closesly, book 8 isa direct  continuation of book 7.  They could be one book.  There is not even an  explanation at the beginnig of book 8 as to why the characters are where  they are, it just jumps right in.  If book eight had been part of book  seven, it would have looked exactly the same.  I know I'm rambling, but i'm  just trying to get a point across.	1999-01-29
US	52437038	R1ZZQWU765U2H4	0671007939	756748643	The 34th Rule (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, No. 23)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Good ST book! A First!	Armin Shimerman, a former teacher and a reader of Shakespeare, has finally written a ST book.  Not only is this one of the longest Trek books yet (racking in at 425 pages of small print), but it is actually quite good.   Obviously the authors thought it out and knew the characters quite well  (having portrayed the character for seven years will do that to you).  This  book has a plausible plot, and it is long enough to have some real  character development shoved in there.  The mechanics are quite good, and I  actually enjoyed a ST novel for the first time in years.  Way to go, Quark!	1999-01-14
US	52437038	R38YEVH6F6YGGX	0312867875	860649477	Legends: Stories By The Masters of Modern Fantasy	Books	5	1	4	N	N	awesome	To be frank, i bought this book only for the wheel of time story.  I read that, and it was excellent, much better than The Path of Daggers.  It was a very good showing of Moirane and Lan's relationship.  I also happen to love  the Sword of Truth series, but that story wasn't as captivating.  One  question: Where was Terry Brooks's story?	1999-01-08
US	52437038	R2KD952MV1G5H2	0812551486	479902349	Temple of the Winds (Sword of Truth, Book 4)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Very good	I really enjoyed this book, as all the other books of the series, and am looking forward to Soul of the Fire.  However, I think that Mr. Goodkind should start making these more epic, as opposed to a problem-and-solution  story in each book.  I also thought that the Gars were sorely missed in  this book, as was Chase.	1999-01-08
US	52437038	R3Q74ICHMK7AR7	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Book.	I initially read this book after I read Red Storm Rising, which I thought was (slightly) superior to its predecessor.  This book was very good, very plot oriented, and very exciting, but there was not much in the way of  character development.  This was a great debut novel for Mr. Clancy.  The  only reason this wasn't as good as Red Storm Rising was because as this was  his debut novel, he had to keep it kind of short, so he couldn't fit as  much into it.	1999-01-08
US	52437038	RMD6H1YJMVSK0	0812520629	657813394	The Last Aerie (Vampire World)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Good	I thought this books was quite good, but the large print pissed me off, and the first half of the book was a retelling of blood brothers.	1999-01-08
US	52437038	R35CX2YQFDCBET	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great but not impressive	I thought that this was a very well-written book, with quite a few good and interesting scenes.  I know that it is leading up to the next one, but I still feel that i've been gypped somehow.  Half of the stuff on the  synopsis on the cover of the book doesn't even happen.  It was well  written, but not worth two years.  Plus, the first 100 pages or so seemed  to just have been ripped from the end of book seven.  I had to give it 5  stars because it is wheel of time, but it really doesn't deserve it.  Also,  for those who complain that Mat wasn't in it, remember books 5&amp;6.   Perrin wasn't in one, and he was in only a couple chapters of another.   What I was wondering is where are the Aiel?  They are supposed to be broken  until but a fragment of a fragment is left, so why not break them on the  Seanchan.  Hundreds of Thousands of Aiel vs. Hundreds of Thousands of  Seanchan would be cool.  Also, not enough of Taim and Logain, and too many  new forsaken and such being introduced without being developed {not  necessarily a bad thing}.  I do believe, however, that Mat needs to find  the daughter of the nine moons, which i bet he will in book 10, and that  Rand and Egwene need to meet again, finally.  One last thing -- Rand was  thinking of challenging the creator to rid the Power of the Taint.  is he  litteraly going to go and challenge the creator, or is going to do  something a little less drastic, and if he is going to challenge the  creator, how is he going to do it?	1999-01-08
US	52437038	R25AZG5N5CKR3Q	0671024477	955236355	Star Trek Insurrection (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	OK	This book had great potential.   The movie had a character oriented enough story that MS. Dillard could have given us something in the way of a back story, or some character development, except in the very beginning.  She is  going downhill.  She did an excellent job with Star Trek 5 and 6.  Those  were very good books, better than average for star trek books, and not bad  even for regular books.  Then with Generations and First contact, she still  did an ok job, but they were short and had large print.  In this one it is  lacking development to the point of deficiency, and where are the color  photos from the movie.  Also, the best part of the previous two STTNG movie  novelizations was the behind the scenes at the end.  Where did that go.   Not only is this book more expensive, but it also lacks that whichj made  the others readable.  By the way this book is 284 not 385 pages.	1999-01-08
US	52437038	RWPY2NKN2JNV5	0671004689	868477718	Vengeance (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine #22)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	TRASH!	I used to read Star Trek books with some regularity, and most were bad but some are okay.  Recently I have only read the DS9's.  I like them the best.  Vengeance was rubbish.  The characters were all wrong -- Sisko called Kira  &quot;Old Man&quot;, and  whats up with &quot;Master Chief&quot; O'Brien?   Hes not called that.  The writing was despicable, which is too bad becasue  ab Hugh's previous DS9 book, Fallen Heroes, was one of the best in the  series.  I am sorry I bought it.	1999-01-08
US	52437038	RJQZ77A4G79E2	1559585196	95151152	TIE Fighter: The Official Strategy Guide (Secrets of the games series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I think this book was very good.	I bought this book after I had already beaten the game.  I only bought it because I am a Star Wars collecter, I wouldn't normally have bought a game guide.  I was reading through it, and to my surprise it was written  basically in the form of a first person novel.  I really enjoyed the fresh  perspective of a civilian worker (Maarek Stele) on a Star Destroyer, and  this book is well worth reading.	1998-11-11
