US	52438156	R3UBO87O46IEFU	0061054135	827369872	Caliban's Hour	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Impressive Sequel to 'The Tempest'	Williams is best known for sprawling multi-volume SF and Fantasy sagas, but here has written a very brief work of only 200 pages that is quite successful.  (It's amusing that even at this brief length, Williams still feels a bit wordy.  This very short book has a few passages that could have been cut with no real loss.)  Caliban has, many years later, finally found his way off the island where Prospero left him and, cheated of revenge by Prospero's death, has instead sought out Miranda to tell his story to, after which he intends to kill her. <br /> <br />From this device, Williams gives another perspective on the events of 'The Tempest', as well as the earlier story of Caliban and Sycorax arriving on the island, Caliban's life alone after the death of Sycorax, and Caliban's early encounters with Prospero and Miranda.  The story is nicely told, with language that feels appropriate to the character.  This is a Caliban who does indeed know how to curse, but also how to explain why his curses are justified by what he sees as betrayal from both Prospero and Miranda.  <br /> <br />The ending is a bit weak, with a clever, but not really persuasive, device used to prevent the promised final and fatal confrontation.  The book is still, overall, a genuine pleasure to read.	2005-10-10
US	52438156	RNNH0BGT9B75U	0060574623	502980035	The Hallowed Hunt (Chalion, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another terrific story from Bujold	Lois Bujold is, I believe, the best living writer of fantasy/SF, and this book should plese old fans and make new ones.   <br /> <br />It is sometimes described as the third volume of the Chalion trilogy, but uses no characters - mortal at least - from the earlier books.  It does continue to use the complex \\"quintarian\\" religion of the earlier books, built around worship of five gods known as the Father, Mother, Daughter, Son, and Bastard.  And, as in the prior books, the gods play a role and make cameo appearances at key junctures. <br /> <br />In this book Ingrey, a landless minor nobleman, has been assigned to take the lady in waiting Ijada back to the capital where she will be tried and probably executed because she has just murdered a prince.  Ingrey soon finds out that the murdered prince was involved in dark and dangerous magic, but that is only the first of a series of revelations.  Ingrey discovers he has a dangerous enemy, but his enemy has used a powerful spell to become truly invulnerable to attack.  With the King lying near death, is there a plot to capture the throne, or is some subtler goal being sought? <br /> <br />As Ingrey searches for the answer to these mysteries, he also searches for the truth of his own past, to learn why his own father used forbidden animal magic similar to that used by the murdered Prince on him, and the nature of the wolf spirit he now carries. <br /> <br />As in any Bujold book, we can expect iteresting characters, a well-built world, and plenty of excitement.  Other reviewers have disagreed, but I thought this book better than 2004 Hugo winner \\"Paladin of Souls\\".	2005-09-23
US	52438156	RH5PYXGGWYOYK	0671877895	431788341	Redliners	Books	3	3	9	N	N	A good idea done in by excess	If you like loads of action in your military SF, this book should definitely do it for you.  The entire book from beginning to end is essentially an account of two battles.  There is fighting, fighting, and more fighting, but for me the result was more exhaustion than excitement. <br /> <br />That's unfortunate, because the book looks at themes that for Drake, a Vietnam vet, are deeply felt.  The first battle portrays Company C41 fighting aliens called Kalendru.  After this desperate and brutal encounter, one of many, the company is declared to be redliners - unfit for further military duty and poorly prepared for a return to civilian life. <br /> <br />A plan is formed to rehabilitate the Company by having them accompany a group of civilians as a protection force to help colonize a dangerous planet.  The plan goes badly when the dangers are beyond anything the planners expected or prepared for.  The colonists are stranded in the midst of a dense jungle that doubtless also draws on Drakes experiences in 'Nam, but no terrestrial jungle was ever like this:  Every form of plant life is a new hazard, and it soon becomes clear that a consciousness of some kind is behind the inventive and lethal threats. <br /> <br />An interesting set-up, but that's actually about it.  The rest of the book is almost entirely the story of the march through the jungle, and far more of it is devoted to describing endless attacks and casualties than to character development. <br /> <br />The ending is only a few pages long, and, as another reviewer has noted, isn't clearly explained and feels tacked on.	2005-09-23
US	52438156	RVSOVQW86QOYV	0743471555	615518822	1633 (Ring of Fire)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An enjoyable sequel, sometimes slow	This book takes up after the earlier \\"1632\\" with Mike Stearns and the rest of Grantville struggling to build a new United States from the disaster of the 30 Years War.    It's more realistic than its predecessor; in particular the obvious problem of contagious disease which my review noted 1632 largely ignored is dealt with realistically.  I enjoyed the story, but with the caveat that those reviewers who complained there is more talk than action are not really wrong.  There is far less action than in 1632, with some clearly being held off for future volumes - much of this book follows two diplomatic missions, one caught in a siege of Amsterdam in the continuing war between Spain and the Dutch, and one trapped in genteel imprisonment in the Tower of London.  Both situations are unresolved when the book ends, and, for that matter, not resolved in the published sequel \\"1634 - The Galileo Affair\\".  There are plans to publish more volumes set in 1634 which will eventually resolve these cliffhangers.    Along with the diplomats, the book focusses on the creation of a new political entity, the Confederated Principalities of Europe, dominated by Grantville and Gustav Augustus (there really is more constitutional discussion than any reasonable person would want), and the formation and first combat of a new US Navy and Air Force.  New characters are added; almost new is John Simpson, who was in 1632, but is so much more developed in this story as to be largely a new character.  At least one prominent character from 1632 will be killed off before the end of the book.    The addition of David Weber as a co-author is welcome; in general, from what I've read of each of their output, Flint has more original and interesting ideas while Weber is a more skilled writer.  Together, they make a good team.    The 16xx series is drawn together tightly, and wile you could read this book on its own, I wouldn't really recommend it.	2005-09-17
US	52438156	R2OPS1MF7WFJ91	0812575482	649560585	Through Wolf's Eyes (Wolf, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A strong debut novel	This is the story of Firekeeper, a young girl who is the sole survivor of a settlement created by Prince Barden, the youngest child of King Tedric of Hawk Haven, who was tired of being redundant at home.  After the death of the other settlers, Firekeeper was adopted and raised by a pack of intelligent wolves, and thinks of herself as a wolf.  In the years since, all Tedric's other children have died and when Firekeeper, the possible daughter of Barden, is found by an ambitious nobleman, she becomes a player in the complex search for a successor to the aging king.   <br /> <br />The story of Firekeeper's adjustment to living among humans is mixed in with the plots that swirl around control of the throne, making for an effective adventure.   <br /> <br />This book is marked by interesting characters and nicely handled plot complications.  The story does move a bit slowly, especially in the beginning, but uses that slow beginning well to establish characters.   <br /> <br />Most impressive is the unusual and interesting protagonist.  Lindskold draws her as identifying as wolf rather than human, giving her a unique perspective on the court intrigues that she has landed in.  The result is a very enjoyable fantasy. <br /> <br />There are several sequels currently published, but this book is complete in itself.	2005-08-16
US	52438156	R3M9JUNGYLBYO	0743488369	911600384	4: The Service of the Sword (Honor Harrington)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A strong story collection	This book features 6 'Honorverse' stories by various authors.    Only two entries are short stories, both written or co-written by John Ringo.  \\"A Ship Named Francis\\" is very short and very funny, an excellent story in which a Manticoran looking to advance his career with a stint in the allied Grayson Navy finds himself aboard a ship of lunatics and rank incompetents, a dumping ground for everybody that other commanders were trying to get rid of.  \\"Let's Go to Prague\\" is less successful, a story where two Manticoran intelligence agents decide, for no very good reason, to take a vacation doing what they do for a living: traveling into the PRH undercover where they'll be tortured and killed if caught.  The developments which follow aren't much more plausible than the premise.    The other 4 tales are firmly in the novella category, at about 120 - 170 pages each.  Jane Lindskold's \\"Promised Land\\" tells the story of a mass escape from Masada, the fanatical twin to Grayson which plays a role in the Harrington series, especially in #2.  The story switches between the perspectives of Judith, a character first introduced here, and Michael Winton, the younger brother of Queen Elizabeth, here seving as a junior officer in the Royal Manticoran Navy.  It's a terrific adventure, introducing likable characters and putting them through dramatic adventures.  It reminds me in many ways of the earlier Honor books, which were crisp and fast-paced, as opposed to the rather bloated recent volumes.  The story is strong enough to interest me in seeking out Lindskold's novels, which I've never read.    Eric Flint contributed \\"Fanatic\\", a story set in the PRH between \\"Ashes of Victory\\" and \\"War of Honor\\".  The story examines the inner workings of the notorious \\"State Security\\" of the PRH as a rising young officer, the fanatic of the title, investigates the death and activities of a notoriously corrupt State Security officer who had been effectively in unsupervised control of a backwater system.  The story explores the mindset of the  apparatus of a police state and the art of surviving in it in intriguing ways.    Timothy Zahn's \\"With One Stone\\", set shortly after \\"On Basilisk Staion\\", is the only story in this collection which centers on familiar characters, Honor herself and Rafe Cardones.  But I thought it the least successful in the book, an interesting idea that fell apart in the execution.    David Weber himself wrote the final story, which also gives the book its title.  The story, set probably during \\"War of Honor\\",  centers on the adventures of the first female Midshipwoman from Grayson on her first cruise in a Manticoran vessel.  The character, Abigail Hearns, is one I expect will show up again in future Honor Harrington novels.  It's a good story, although it takes too long to get to the main action and features some of Weber's characteristic overdetailed accounts of hardware and weapons.    Overall, the collection will be enjoyed by any Honor Harrington fan.  There are more hits than misses, and even the weaker stories have some redeeming features.	2005-06-22
US	52438156	R37FHJAXYHMC5L	0061057541	18473604	Byzantium	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Historical Adventure in the 9th century	Lawhead is best known for fantasy series, but here has written a historical stand-alone.  \\"Byzantium\\" tells the adventures of Aidan Mac Cainnech, a real historical figure of the eighth and ninth centuries, on a fictional pilgrimmage to Constantinople, in the course of which he is captured by Vikings and finds himself drawn into intrigues in the courts of both the Byzantine Empire and the Abbasid caliphate. <br /> <br />Lawhead has done a good job of recreating four very distinct cultures as backdrops to Aidan's travels: the monasteries of Ireland, the Vikings of Denmark, the subtle, wealthy, and corrupt city of Constantinople, and the sophisticated culture of Islam at the peak of the Baghdad caliphate's power.  All are seen through Aidan's eyes in a first person narrative.  Some story lines, such as Aidan's romance with an Arab princess and his meeting with the Emperor on his first day in Byzantium, are rather implausible, but most readers will prefer a good story to strict historical accuracy. <br /> <br />One interesting thing about this book is that it is ultimately about faith, a relatively unusual topic in speculative fiction.  Aidan starts out with the unquestioning faith of a youth, has his belief shattered by the struggles and adventures of his pilgrimmage, and ultimately discovers a more mature faith.  I think this is what the book is truly about, although it can be read and enjoyed as a series of colorful and interesting adventures.  Actually, the adventure tale is probably more successful than the story of spiritual redemption, leading to a somewhat uneven book. <br />	2005-06-10
US	52438156	RUZU4S38C3X09	0886778506	606237682	Ties of Power (Trade Pact Universe)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A satisfying adventure	This novel tells the continuing adventures of Sira Morgan, the most powerful telepath of the Clan, a small and secretive species whose culture is built entirely around their formidable telepathic ability, and Jason Morgan, the starship owner/captain she met in the previous volume. <br /> <br />Although this is a direct sequel to \\"A Thousand Words for Stranger\\", it wouldn't be such a bad idea to skip that book and go directly to this one.  What you need to know about the characters and the setting is reviewed early in the book; in fact, the summary here is often a clearer explanation of what actually happened there than was given in \\"Thousand Words\\" itself, which I found frustratingly obscure at some key moments.  And this is a substantially better story, with various characters and plotlines more successfully juggled, than the earlier novel.  <br /> <br />At the start of the sequel, Sira and Jason are living inconspicuously on a backwater planet.  Sira runs a small casino and bar catering mostly to spacers; Jason is trading in truffles and other rare local delicacies.  An attack on Sira separates them, and Jason is off seeking to find out who was behind the attack while Sira finds herself a guest, not always willing, of the Drapsk, an alien species fascinated by her powers.  Czerneda alternates between chapters relaying Sira's adventures in the first person and third person accounts of Jason, Sira's sister Rael, and various other characters.   Gradually all the characters and plots converge on Ret 7, the swampy planet where the series began. <br /> <br />I liked this book quite a bit.  Czerneda's first novel seemed a promising work with too many beginner's mistakes.  With this book, still quite early in her career, she is emerging as a confident and mature storyteller.	2005-06-05
US	52438156	R2E1W2432MUTY3	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Portrait of the Barrister as a young man	The very title makes this book irresistable for anyone who is, like myself, a fan of the Rumpole character.  We will never see any more of the superb TV series - Leo McKern is dead and another actor playing Rumpole is inconceivable.  But instead of sending Rumpole gently into that good night, Mortimer has gone back to the start of his career to tell the story of Rumpole's most celebrated case, the Penge bungalow murders, which he has so often bragged about.  Mortimer has decided to tell the key incidents of Rumpole's youth here and so, in addition to the celebrated trial, we also get the story of how he became engaged to She Who Must Be Obeyed (as well as some earlier failed romances) and his first outing representing the Timson family and clashing with the Malloys.  In spite of all this, the book is rather short.    Seeing the young Rumpole as he begins to develop the attitudes and quirks that will drive his life is a delight and more than ample reason to read the book.  And it has to be because, unfortunately, the murder mystery here is far too slight to carry even a short novel.  A young man is accused of killing his father, an RAF veteran and war hero, along with the co-pilot who flew with his father in the war.  Rumpole's leader, C. H. Wystan, who is also head of chambers and the father of the formidable Hilda, is convinced of his client's guilt and seeks to persuade him to 'remember' that the shooting was in self-defense.  When he is called away for another case, Rumpole interrogates some witnesses far more aggressively than Wystan would, leading the defendant to fire his prominent lead counsel and trust his fate to the inexperienced Rumpole.  Rumpole's investigation raises questions about just how heroic the dead men actually were and uncovers an alternative suspect.      Neither the accused nor the victims really emerge as characters here; as a result the central mystery falls flat.  Yet Mortimer contrives to keep us so attentive to Rumpole that it barely matters.  Mortimer somehow manages to keep us glued to a mystery with very little mystery in it, a mark of genuine virtuosity.	2005-05-31
US	52438156	RCBMZK1EWM41O	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Environmental history of societal collapse	The first and probably most interesting part of this book looks at archeology and, in some cases, written records to explore the collapse of various past civilizations.  Diamond's analysis is that they fell for similar reasons, generally linked to environmental stress.  Some themes show up repeatedly in this section: cultures grow to high population density in years of good climate, leading to disasters when droughts or temperature changes make the environment less hospitable.  When a given environment can no longer support its present population, the population often falls back not to the new maximum support level, but to much less or nothing at all, due to civil war and collapse of existing social structures.  Diamond admires and explains the remarkably ingenious steps used by 'uncivilized' peoples to survive in extremely challenging circumstances; one chapter discusses how early Polynesians managed the incredible feat of setting up permanent homes on an island with no stable source of fresh water.  He also points out how social elites have often responded to crises with hugely inappropriate projects: the classic example, discussed at length here, is the famous giant statues of Easter Island. <br /> <br />Subsequent chapters look at various modern societies and their responses to environmental crises.  An interesting chapter points out that Rwanda, prior to the genocide there, was severely strained by overpopulation which left most subsistence farmers, the core of that nation's economy, working farms too small to feed even their families, much less sell excess for profit.  He also discusses the distinct histories of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, arguing that strong environmental policies are crucial to why the latter is relatively well off, while Haiti is by far the poorest country in the hemisphere. <br /> <br />The final section gives an overview of various modern environmental problems and what can be done to address them.  Diamond's decision to keep this section fairly short is understandable and probably correct - the book runs to over 500 pages as it stands.  But going over so much territory so quickly makes this section the least satisfying.  The final chapter in particular is really the outline of another book, but trying to pack all the material into a few pages leads to a superficial and unstisfactory treatment.   <br /> <br />Overall, this isn't quite as strong as Diamond's justly famous \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\", but still a compelling and persuasive book.	2005-05-25
US	52438156	RPIFIXG9K2991	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun time travel saga	Flint starts his story with a bit of deus ex machina to accomplish the implausible premise he wants to work from - an entire modern West Virginia small town is picked up and zapped to Germany in the midst of the Thirty Years War.   Technological advantages allow the heroes some quick and easy victories over the villains, but the town is too small to maintain a modern industrial base, and the supply of modern rifles and ammunition is limited.  It increasingly becomes clear to the key characters that they can't survive off technological wizardry forever, leading to a bold plan: they'll have to launch the American Revolution ahead of time, find allies, and build their alliance into a new United States of Europe.    It's a fun story, but there are some faults.  The good guys are probably a little too cuddly to be really credible.  Love at first sight between the Americans and the Europeans they land among is employed too frequently.  Some major problems, such as the fact that all the younger citizens of Grantville will be in extreme danger from smallpox, are ignored.  It's mentioned several times that the town dentist quickly runs out of anasthesia - why not use nitrous oxide, relatively easy to manufacture anyplace there's air?  There are some points that don't bear the closest examination, but that doesn't stop the story from being a terrific read.    I was amused by the reviewer below who praised the book for its \\"right of center\\" philosophy.  Apparently he failed to notice that the two principal heroes are a trade union official and a former 60s radical, while a major villain is a wealthy executive.   Flint is himself a former union organizer, and the politics here are definitely on the left, although subtle enough that some readers can clearly miss them entirely.	2005-05-23
US	52438156	R2YSSTIP58JG67	0451459539	950963119	Thief of Lives (Noble Dead)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pretty good vampire saga	Thief of Lives is the story of two mixed blood partners: Magiere, a half vampire (or dhampir in this mythos) and Leesil, a half elf.  Together with their dog Chap, they have gone to the capital of their kingdom to hunt down vampires who have killed the daughter of a powerful politician.    The story and characters are good enough, but I never felt genuinely involved with them, or terribly eager to find the answers to the mysteries the authors tease us with.  The interesting protagonists are the book's greatest strength, but offsetting that are some major weaknesses: I think the problems are that the writing isn't quite as good as it could be, several points about the characters and their motivation are made repetitively, and the setting is pretty much a generic low tech fantasy society, not especially thought out and certainly not original.     The book can be read on its own, although it is the sequel to Dhampir and some points are left hanging at the end that are clearly intended to set up one or more sequels.	2005-05-14
US	52438156	R8YZOEVGFRCH7	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A stunning fantasy	This is the first of three large volumes telling story of Phedre ne Delauney, a courtesan, sexual masochist, and spy living in the fictional kingdom of Terre de Ange which, in Carey's imaginary setting, can be considered roughly equivalent to France.  It's an amazing story, as are the sequals.  Although I haven't yet finished the final volume, I already feel fairly safe in making a flat statement: this is the best fantasy trilogy I have ever read, including Tolkien. <br /> <br />Carey has set her story in a setting fairly close to France at roughly the time of the troubador era of the early Renaissance.  But she has varied the historical setting to suit her needs; countries have been renamed and the equivalents for Germany and Great Britain are still barbaric lands from the Roman era rather than the Middle Ages.  In Carey's Europa, Christ's successors never preached the Gospel to gentiles; as a result Europa remained a pagan culture and the only people to accept Christianity were the Jews.  (The 'Yeshuite' minority is only vaguely mentioned in this book but plays a major role in the sequels.)   <br /> <br />The story isn't quite a fantasy in the traditional sense; there are no wizards, orcs, or dragons.  Rather than a traditional fantasy, you might think of it as alternate history, with a few fantasy elements.  There is one character of mysterious origins who has magical control over what we know as the British Channel, and with that control has reduced contact between the islands and the continent to a minimal level.   This is crucial to the plot, since Phedre eventually needs to undertake a mission to Alba (Britain) and will have to meet the price he requires for her party's passage.  There are some characters with limited ability to see the future, and the heroine is given one special ability: she can recover quite rapidly from injuries, a useful talent given her profession and tastes. <br /> <br />Phedre has been marked by Kushiel, the deity who in Terre de Angetheology punishes souls in Purgatory until they are sufficiently cleansed to move into paradise.   Her mark, a mote in one eye, means that she experiences pain as pleasure.   The significance of the mark is first noticed by Anafiel Delauney, a poet and nobleman with a mysterious background who purchases Phedre and trains her, along with Alcuin, an attractive albino boy,  in languages, spying, and sexual artistry.   Shortly after Phedre begins her career as an expensive courtesan hired out to court figures, Delauney and Alcuin are murdered.  Phedre and her priest bodyguard Joscelyn are sold into slavery in Skaldia (Germany), launching a series of perilous adventures in which Phedre and Joscelyn struggle both to survive and to thwart a planned invasion of Terre de Ange. <br /> <br />Such journeys and adventures can be found in many similar books; what sets Carey above the rest is her complex characters, interesting historical/cultural background, and skillful writing.   Major and minor characters are consistently interesting and believable.  The story gets off to a rather slow start while Carey fills in the background and describes Phedre's childhood, but the quality of the writing makes this section as enjoyable as the later action passages. <br /> <br />The many references to prostitution, homosexuality, and sadism make the book inappropriate for some readers.  But the content isn't as shocking as it could easily be under the circumstances; Carey uses elegant and delicate language to describe the extremely indelicate acts of Phedre's clients.  The book is intensely erotic but not pornographic.	2005-05-04
US	52438156	R1BP9FIHMFMSJU	0812551494	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	A series going stale	This is the fifth book in the SOT series, and Goodkind is running short of ideas.  Little in this book is new, and what is, notably the Evil Chicken Monster, is downright silly. <br /> <br />Most of the story takes place in Anderith, a corner of the Midlands that Richard and Kahlan haven't yet encountered.  Goodkind has invented an elaborate history for Anderith, which he seems to intend as a sort of attack on multiculturalism and related political trends - in general, as the series goes forward, silly political posturing seems to increasingly get in the way of the story.  But Goodkind's political message falls flat. The caricatures he uses to make political points are so wildly exaggerated that the analogy becomes absurd and even calling the arguments Goodkind introduces to knock down straw men gives them excessive dignity.    <br /> <br />An example is the social structure in this novel of Anderith.  In Anderith, the dominant Anders control everything and use the Hakens as servants.  The Hakens once came to the country as successful conquerors, but after they became convinced that conquest was naughty, they allowed Anders to control their education and install a curiculum that taught all Haken were evil and all Anders good.  Under the influence of that teaching, they agreed to yield all economic power, political power, and basic civil rights to make up for their aggressive nature, and now work as near slaves when not attending mandatory classes about how awful Hakens are.  The Haken characters introduced in this book, although portrayed as intelligent, have completely internalized this teaching and accept any stories they are told without question, however obviously absurd and inconsistent. <br /> <br />The main plot line is that Richard and Kahlan's mariage in the prior installment released an ancient force which threatens to eliminate magic from the world.  To fight the threat, Richard must find an answer in Anderith, while surviving the treacherous maneuvers ofthe Anderith leadership which is secretly plotting to turn their country over to the Imperial Order.  Along the way, this being a Goodkind novel, quite a few of the female characters get raped, tortured, or murdered. <br /> <br />It isn't awful, but it's far too similar to earlier SoT novels, and where it's different, it's worse.  This book doesn't really advance the overall plot of Richard vs Jagang substantially, so if you really want to find out what happens next, feel free to just skip it and go to the next one.  Or, try my approach: after this mediocre volume I'm putting this series aside until it feels fresh again: a lapse of a few years if not forever.	2005-02-25
US	52438156	RUWKNTV0FZGXO	1557046255	275581267	Wesley K. Clark: A Biography	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Solid narrative with little insight	Felix has written a very positive, but not especially deep, biography of former and probably future presidential candidate Wesley Clark.  This looks like something of a political leap for her, since she has written bios, apparently equally uncritical, of Laura Bush and Condi Rice.   But it's less of a leap than it seems; there is nothing in this book to offend the strongest Clark supporter, but also nothing to offend partisan conservatives.  For instance, Felix mentions that Clark's decision to run for President in 2003 was motivated partly by his disapproval of the direction of Bush's policies, but goes into little detail about what he disliked or why.     What she has focussed on is a list of the many highlights of Clark's life and career, from his early successes in High school swimming and forensics competitions to the numerous companies that invited him to become a director from 2000 - 2003.  She particularly highlights the impressive list of awards and honors Clark has won, from \\"Boy of the Year\\" as a Little Rock teen and the oddly named Peruvian Army plaque (for 1st in his class at West Point) to the Presidential Medal of Freedom after his retirement from active duty.      Most of the book is necessarily about Clark's career in the military.  There's an important and potentially fascinating story here of how the US military rose from its disastrous post-Vietnam condition to become the efficient powerhouse of the first Gulf War and the Kosovo campaign.  The generation of young officers who served as junior field commanders in Vietnam and then rose through the ranks, such as Clark and Colin Powell, played a big role in this story.   Felix does show Clark's focus throughout his career on training and the welfare of his troops,  but her account of Clark's rise is too much a listing of positions held, units commanded, and honors awarded to adequately tell this broader story.    Certainly those unfamiliar with Clark and his background will learn a lot from this book; those already aware of the general story from the coverage of the 2004 campaign will be disappointed by the relative lack of new information.  The book reads almost like one aimed at children due to its short length, simple vocabulary, and generally superficial treatments.	2005-02-18
US	52438156	R2IVEPG7DNC0JM	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Challenging but fascinating	Jared Diamond has given an impressive account of why complex civilizations and technology emerged on the Eurasian continent rather than other locations.  Noting that many earlier writers have suggested an innate superiority of the population, he argues persuasively that it was in fact an accident of geography.  In essence, as Diamond shows with solid evidence, the earliest civilizations in the Fertile Crescent area (roughly Iraq and parts of Syria) enjoyed unique advantages due to a large number of easily domesticable plants and animals.  Domestication of plants and animals spread out from Iraq to other areas both East and West, giving Eurasia a jump start in technology.  Technology, population growth, and urbanization interacted and reinforced each other to produce the combination of guns, germs, and steel that ultimately resulted, about 9,000 years later, in Europeans conquering the rest of the world.  Along the way, he offers provocative answers to questions such as why European diseases devastated the native populations of the Americas, Polynesia, and Australia, but no diseases from those regions did real damage to European settlers.    I should also note what this book is not, since negative reviewers here and elsewhere seem not to understand it.  First, it isn't an explanation of why specifically Western European countries rose to global dominance.  This topic is discussed only for a few pages, and only in the epilogue.  And even then, the discussion is entirely a contrast of Western Europe vs China.  Other outcomes that were at least hypothetically possible, such as global empires arising from India, Japan, or Korea, aren't even discussed, nor are such questions as why England thrived for centuries as an imperial power while Spain, with wealthier conquests, rapidly became a hollow shell that merely looked like a powerful empire on the map.      It also isn't an argument that geography is destiny and culture is meaningless.  Consider this passage from page 252: \\"Traditional New Guinea has conservative societies that resist new ways, living side by side with innovative societies that selectively adopt new ways.  The result, with the arrival of Western technology, is that the most entreprenuerial societies are now exploiting Western technology to overwhelm their conservative neighbors....  The Chimbu tribe proved especially aggressive in adopting Western technology.  When Chimbus saw white settlers planting coffee, they began growing coffee themselves as a cash crop....  In contrast, the Daribi, a neighboring highland people with whom I worked for eight years, are especially conservative and uninterested in new technology.  When the first helicopter landed in the Daribi area, they just looked at it and went back to what they had been doing; the Chimbus would have been bargaining to charter it.  As a result, Chimbus are now moving into the Daribi area, taking it over for plantations, and reducing the Daribi to working for them.\\"    The above passage illustrates a point with an example from New Guinea.  Diamond has lived for many years in New Guinea, performing research largely into bird populations, and has a clear fascination with the place.  He starts the book with a question asked by a native New Guinean and a dedication to numerous Guinean friends; he returns there for discussion or examples in almost every chapter.  Generally history on this global scale is written from a heavily Eurocentric or perhaps American perspective; Diamond's unique 'New Guineacentric' perspective adds to the appeal of the book.    \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\" is skillfully written.  Certainly it isn't light reading, but it is hard to imagine how a study covering such a broad subject matter, and analyzing in comparable depth, could have been more readable.  I strongly recommend this book.	2005-02-15
US	52438156	R2V4HCPY7S43ZK	0812548094	939049888	Stone of Tears	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A worthy sequel	The second book in the Sword of Truth series has pretty much the same strengths and weaknesses as its predecessor, so if you liked 'Wizard`s First Rule', you should enjoy this one. <br /> <br />The story starts within days of Richard's victory over Darken Rahl, when monsters from the underworld attack in the People's Palace in D'Hara and the Mud People village where Richard and Kahlan have gone.  It's soon discovered that Darken Rahl's use of the magic of Orden in Book 1 has weakened the Veil between the worlds of the living and the dead, and Richard and Kahlan are off once again to prevent apocalypse. The angle this time is that prophecy shows that the apocalypse can be prevented only if Kahlan dies.  <br /> <br />This time they are mostly separated, Kahlan traveling through the Midlands while Richard leaves with the Sisters of Light to seek to learn mastery over his powers.  Once again, there is no shortage of action, but the writing isn't the best, too many fantasy cliches are invoked, and the characters don't show any further development.  New characters and locations are introduced, especially in Richard's travels. <br /> <br />Once again, there is a somewhat morbid element running through the book.  Along with the battles, there is a good deal of rape, torture, and mutilation.  Unlike the prior book, it takes place mostly offstage and we generally get elaborate and excessive desriptions of the results more than the acts.	2004-12-28
US	52438156	R3DAVJ1JSKVGI5	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A promising beginning	This is the first volume of a long fantasy series. There are currently 9 volumes with no end in sight; this is the only one I've read to date. <br /> <br />The elements here are familiar bordering on cliche: an 'ordinary' young man with a secret magical legacy, a cantankerous wizard, an evil sorcerer on the verge of ruling the world, a long journey through magical and other hazards.  But Goodkind lifts the story above the usual by creating strong characters and giving them something to do: in particular the minor characters, stock figures in so much fantasy writing, are interesting and well drawn.  (That applies only to the 'good guys'; the villian's minions, other than the Mord-Sith, couldn't be more stereotyped.) <br /> <br />The hero is Richard Cypher, who is drawn into his adventures by the murder of his father and his rescue of the beautiful and mysterious Kahlan.  A principal subplot comes from the magical obstacle that frustrates the inevitable romance between Richard and Kahlan. <br /> <br />One element certainly not found in Tolkien but fairly common in more recent fantasies is explicit sex.  A long sequence occurs when Richard is captured by a member of the Mord-Sith, women who work for the villain, Darken Rahl, by torturing and breaking his enemies.  Richard's torturer is of course beautiful, and the erotic bondage elements are explicit, perhaps too much so for some readers.   <br /> <br />There are significant problems beyond the cliches in the basic set-up.  The story makes liberal use of implausible coincidences, and Richard, who is generally a sword-wielding Sherlock Holmes with his insightful deductions, can turn inexplicably into Dr Watson when the plot requires him to be clueless about some obvious point.  Some gaps in the story are simply left unexplained, presumably because the author has no explanation.  For instance, Kahlan is a Confessor, a possessor of a magical power handed down in matrilineal succession which has supposedly enabled her to escape multiple asassins.  A confessor's power is said several times to make it impossible for a single assailant to kill her.  But the power is based on touch (all I can say without giving too much away), so why can't an assassin just kill her with a spear, arrow, or other distance weapon?  Well, if they could, she'd be dead and we wouldn't have a story, so it's never brought up. <br /> <br />Overall, the story entertains and holds interest through its considerable length in spite of the weaknesses.  It's good enough that I plan to read at least some of the sequels, so it merits a recommendation.	2004-12-06
US	52438156	R2UOKEM10Z3Y7U	0756400627	782453290	The Better Part of Valor (Valor Novel)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Torin strikes again	Tanya Huff returns to the galaxy of the Confederation and super-competent Marine Staff Sergeant Torin Kerr in this military SF sequel to \\"Valor's Price\\".  <br /> <br />The set-up is that humans, along with two other species, the di'Taykan and the Krai, are recruited into the Confederation, a union of highly advanced species, in order to provide it with the ability to defend itself against the violent Others, who are invading Confederation space.  Other Confederation species have either never practiced warfare or have developed to the point where it is a part of their ancient history, so they need some less-advanced races to help out when they are faced with the requirement to resist military aggression.  <br /> <br />Kerr's latest mission is to protect scientists while they examine an extremely large space ship which has been located, apparently drifting as a derelict, in Confederation space.  In this I don't think Huff has really thought out her premise.  The Confederation is supposed to be an ultra-advanced society of ancient races, but their technology, excepting SF-standard FTL space ships and artificial gravity, isn't really that impressive - there's very little that humans couldn't easily develop on their own by the date of this story, roughly early 23rd Century.  Much of it seems downright primitive for a galaxy-spanning culture.  They have no AI, no nanotechnology, and apparently no robotics - they seem to have no clue about sending unmanned scouts into potentially hazardous situations, for which they just use Marines.  When they encounter this ship, which it soon becomes clear is truly advanced, the Confederation scientists are pretty much useless. <br /> <br />Apart from this conceptual problem, I liked nearly everything about this book.  The plot is interesting, with unpredictable twists, and, unlike the prequel, Torin wasn't the only character who was properly developed.  There's a sexual tension between Torin and the salvage operator who discovered theship to keep a romantic subplot running.  And there are political subplots in Torin's conflicts with General Morris, returned from the prequel, and the incompetent CO he has assigned to her unit, who is more familiar with - and more interested in - media relations than the mission. <br /> <br />Although I liked most of the story, I do agree with reviewers who said that there isn't much payoff at the end.  But this novel is a diverting story and a pleasure to read.	2004-12-04
US	52438156	R1TR17SPVP5J8C	0886778964	579829556	Valor's Choice (Valor Novel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable but Light	Tanya Huff, generally a fantasy writer, tries her hand at military SF in this battle tale.  The story is set at an unspecified time about two centuries into the future.  Humans, along with two other species, the di'Tayka and the Krai, have become the military arm of a large Confederation dominated by species that are too evolved to dirty their hands (claws, paws, or appendages) with war, but need defense from the mysterious Others that are attacking the Confederation and refuse to engage in diplomacy. <br /> <br />The focal character in the series is Torin Kerr, a Staff Sergeant in the interstellar Marines.  Kerr is the senior NCO for a unit of about 40 Marines sent to guard a diplomatic mission that seeks to bring a new warrior species, the Silsviss, into the Confederation.  The mission is supposedly a break for a unit that just got back from some hard fighting, but it will, of course, not go that easily, and after some twists Torin finds herself taking her squadron and its green CO into a full scale battle against high odds. <br /> <br />The story and the main character are enjoyable.  The other Marines aren't really developed as characters.  They are given species traits - basically, the di'Tayka will have sex with anything that moves and the Krai will eat it - but lack individual personalities.  There is a twist at the end which other reviewers seemed to have problems with, but I rather liked.  Certainly it fit well with the overall theme of the story, celebrating the courage of the grunt soldier and dismissing the  medal-bedecked officers who command them. <br /> <br />Since most of the characters are soldiers, the dialog is appropriately salty.  Huff has sought to soften it by removing the silent 'c' from a popular Anglo-Saxon obscenity which  appears roughly on every other page, but some readers or parents may find it inappropriate. <br /> <br />Military SF written by women generally dispenses with the excessive hardware specifications and right-wing political rants often indulged in by male writers in this sub-genre, usually to the betterment of the story. This is a good example: a pleasant novel, fairly short and easy to read, but not one you're likely to long remember.	2004-12-03
US	52438156	R30GHFXQSYWJS1	0451457323	823553141	Into the Fire (Mithgar)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	A So-So Conclusion	This book is somewhat better than its predecessor, mostly because things finally happen.  That silly coin actually does get to Agron, Beau finally acquires a love interest other than Tip, and we learn, only in the final 120 pages out of 950, why this mini-series of two volumes is called Hel's Crucible.  There are loads of battles, but the battles are wildly unrealistic; it just isn't as easy to kill people with a sling or bow and arrow, even with a direct hit, as McKiernan pretends.    The big finale isn't very successful; a series of armies appears pretty much out of thin air to push the plot forward, and the final twist, because it is heavily foreshadowed but absurdly carried out, manages to be at once predictable and unbelievable.    The book has two themes, both heavily and frequently underlined, that every action has consequences, ultimately unpredictable, and that freedom isn't free.  True enough, but the author has nothing particularly original or insightful to say on either topic.      The bottom line is that this is just not very good Tolkien cribbing.  There are quite a few other Mithgar stories by McKiernan, but I have no plans to read any of them.	2004-11-28
US	52438156	R1HSW70XDJII0T	0451457005	229757319	Into the Forge (Hel's Crucible, Book 1)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not very good	This is the story of two hobbits, I mean warrows, who set off on a journey to deliver a ring, I mean coin, that may help save the world from the evil mage Sauron, I mean Modru.  Along the way they are aided by elves, dwarves, and sorcerers, and threatened by various magical monsters, not to mention clumsy prose. <br /> <br />McKiernan has an ugly habit of switching between a sort of bastardized faux-Middle English and normal modern English, as well as stealing all his plot ideas from Tolkien.  The charcters are pretty good and their adventures at times exciting, but there just isn't enough here to recommend.	2004-11-28
US	52438156	R1HQSQRFY69OVQ	0446609412	708095005	The Quiet Invasion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strong, with some faults	Roughly 200 years into the future, the world is dominated by the UN, which also has jursidiction over various space stations and colonies through the Solar System.  Since the brutal suppression of a rebellion on Mars, the UN has been hostile to the interests of off-Earth colonists, a hosatility that is resented in many places, definitely including the scientific research station on Venus founded and led by Dr Helen Failia.  As Failia desperately searches for funding the Venera station appears doomed, until a probe discovers what appears to be an alien structure on the surface. <br /> <br />On a distant planet, an advanced species calling itself The People occupy a world that is dying from ecological overload.  They have found only one other planet which appears suitable for colonization, but are concerned by the fact that another species, originating in the same system and having already built a station on the planet, may have a prior claim.  Ambassador T'sha feels that it is important to contact the new species and obtain their agreement before the People move to New Home; her rival D'sheun is certain that losing New Home will mean the death of his species and is willing to claim the new world by any means necessary. <br /> <br />Zettel switches back and forth between human and alian characters, leaving actual first contact for quite late in this first contact story.  The contact is still eventful and misunderstandings, whether deliberate or accidental, bring the cultures close to catastrophe.  The plot dawdles a bit in the early going, but builds up a good deal of steam before reaching a conclusion that is a bit abrupt and not altogether satisfactory.   <br /> <br />The strength of this book is in the elaborate drawn alien culture, the strong characters (mostly female, which seems to be standard in Zettel's work), and the interesting parallels and contrasts between human and alien perspectives.  <br />	2004-11-02
US	52438156	R31SW6F9A6W1B8	0393308138	723130322	The Fortune of War  (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another Strong Outing	This is the sixth volume in the Aubrey/Maturin series, and focusses on the War of 1812 - although less than a third of the way through the series, we are now getting quite late in the Napoleonic Wars.  The story continues the same voyage from 'Desolation Island', and the events and characters of that book are significant.  So it's advisable to read that prior to this, even if you don't read all of the five prequels. <br /> <br />Two naval battles and a desperate longboat voyage are featured, but the heart of the story is Aubrey and Maturin as POWs in Boston, where Maturin's past spying activities are coming back to haunt him.  This part of the story is done very well. <br /> <br />The principal complaint is one that applies to all the books in this series, so at least readers will be used to it by now.  The books are loaded with contemporary naval terms and slang which O'Brian never stops to explain, leaving the reader to spend almost as much time at sea as the heroes. <br /> <br />The series is generally strong on historical authenticity, but an earlier revewer complains that this volume is an exception.  I suspect that is so; from my own knowledge of the War of 1812, the close Franco-American alliance which is portrayed in this book, while it would have made political sense, never really existed.  Such errors are unfortunate in an author who normally avoids them, but they didn't spoil the story for me.	2004-10-11
US	52438156	R1FQT0JV5OIW7M	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A superior outing	This is the fifth of the Aubrey-Maturin sea novels, and the first I've read that I felt really lived up to the great things I've heard about this series. <br /> <br />Jack Aubrey has been ordered to transport some convicts to Australia, one of whom is a beautiful spy who Stephen Maturin seeks to gain information from.  On the way, his new command encounters a deadly breakout of infectious disease, then is driven deep into southern seas trying to escape from a more heavily armed Dutch vessel. <br /> <br />More than in the previous books I've read, this one gets the balance right, with plot elements of naval warfare, Maturin's spying, the troubled personal lives of the main characters, and interesting new characters brought into the mix, all working together to make a tense, exciting story.  O'Brian's description of the difficult sailing conditions in the seas of the far south is memorable, and the main naval action was easier to follow than in earlier volumes. <br /> <br />This story doesn't much rely on knowledge of the earlier volumes, so it could work as an introduction to the entire series.	2004-09-26
US	52438156	RIBMXSE471GF	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Not up to the series' reputation	This is the fourth book sequentially and the second I've read of the extremely popular Aubrey/Maturin series of historical novels. <br /> <br />After a brief and interesting look at Jack's less than blissful connubial life with the wife he married at the end of \\"HMS Surprise\\", O'Brian whisks us off to the Indian Ocean, where French frigates based in Mauritius have been making havoc with the ships of the East India Company, so central to England's economy, not to mention the private wealth of many of it's most powerful people.  (One merit of the books is how they show us that, even if another conflict is known as the First World War, the Napoleonic Wars were in fact fought on fields and seas throughout the world.)  Aubrey is lifted to the rank of Commodore and given the assignment of defeating the enemy vessels and, if possible, capturing Reunion and Mauritius. <br /> <br />The ups and downs of the campaign , which O'Brian states are based closely on history, make for a good story.  But the Aubrey/Maturin characters are not as developed as in \\"HMS Surprise\\", and the potentially interesting characters who are introduced aren't given enough space to live up to their promise, with the exception perhaps of the foppish but courageous Lord Clonfert, a captain in Aubrey's squadron.  His rival captain Corbett, a sadistic disciplinarian, isn't on stage enough to emerge as an individual, nor is another rival captain, Pym. <br /> <br />O'Brian obviously has a vast knowledge of the ship designs, tactics, methods, slang, even cuisine of the Royal Navy he describes.  But he shows little mercy for the reader who is unlikely to share his expertise.  Thus one of the points of a story like this, to show Jack Aubrey using tactical resourcefulness to salvage a difficult situation, falls flat.  Aubrey's maneuvers are described fully enough, but O'Brian fails to explain why a given decision was made.  In the absence of authorial assistance, the numerous description of how various sails are manipulated tells us little indeed.  <br /> <br />The story ends rather suddenly; just when it seems to be really taking off, it's all over in a few pages.	2004-09-16
US	52438156	R46AGR313DAHQ	0312876874	54556837	Threshold	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting Story	In the opening pages of this book, the young woman who narrates it and her father are sold into slavery.  As skilled glass workers, they ultimately wind up in a distant kingdom called Ashdod, where the woman is given the name Tirzah and both are put to work building a vast pyramid called Threshold which is being constructed by the Magi, the priest class of Ashdod, for the power they believe it will bring them when complete.  Tirzah soon discovers she has magical abilities to communicate with the soul of glass objects, but the possession or use of such abilities is regarded by the Magi as a capital crime. <br /> <br />The first part of this book is very effective, with two striking villains: Boaz, the Magus who oversees construction and suspects Tirzah's magical skills, and Threshold itself, looming,threatening, and mysterious.  As Boaz brings the pyramid closer to completion, Tirzah begins to discover and bring out a gentler side in him.  Ultimately they fall in love and Boaz is transformed from the villain who will commit any cruelty to complete Threshold to a hero who will pay any price to destroy it, a transformation that I found unpersuasive.  At the same time Threshold, once it comes to power, is certainly evil enough, but less mysterious and somehow less intriguing. <br /> <br />Thus the second half of the novel, the story of how Boaz, Tirzah, and their allies fight the evil entity who has entered the world through Threshold, was less successful for me than the first.   <br /> <br />Still, the story does have some definite strengths.  Tirzah is a strong and interesting protagonist and the writing is good.  The section before Tirzah reaches Threshold, while quite brief, is vivid and excellent.  The plot is fairly unpredictable, and takes several turns I wasn't expecting. <br /> <br />The Magi are mathematicians and scholars, and an implicit theme of the book seems to be that mathematics and technology are evil.  Douglass certainly appears to subscribe to that belief herself; part of the plot hinges on the sequence of the earliest prime numbers which Douglass strangely believes to be 1, 3, 5, 7, 11....  Somehow, the book got into print without this incredibly obvious blunder being detected.	2004-09-04
US	52438156	R2MY6PYB4YB69E	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Tracking the Bush Dynasty	This book is distinct from the flood of Bush-bashing books that have come out this year.  Instead of just looking at the Bush II presidency, Phillips tries to put it in the context of his family's use of wealth and power over generations, dating back to World War I and even before.  This is a broad ambition, leading to a book that is serious, full of intriguing bits of history, often fairly difficult to get through, but ultimately not quite successful. <br /> <br />Phillips has emphasized the Bush penchant for secrecy.  Unfortunately, that penchant has deprived him of a lot of material: Phillips has some facts and a lot of speculation about the earlier generations of the Bush dynasty, but he clearly doesn't have the documentation to put the story together.  The passages on pre-WWII dealings are full of hints and implications, but in the end, there just isn't much solid information there. We never really see how the elaborate interlocking companies that Prescott Bush, George Herbert Walker, and their associates controlled worked together, or how Prescott's political career survived the seizure of substantial assets involved in trading with the 3rd Reich, a scandal that should have finished him.  <br /> <br />Phillips does somewhat better with Bush 41.  He is entirely persuasive in arguing that the George Bush employed by the CIA in the early 1960s is Bush 41, and largely persuasive in arguing that the October Surprise of 1980 deserves more serious attention than it has received.  He also suggests Bush footprints successfully obscured in Iran-contra, BCCI, and other scandals. <br /> <br />There are problems in applying this to Dubya.  Phillips treats Dubya's presidency as a restoration, with frequent comparisons to the Stuart Restoration  of 1660 and the post-Napoleonic Bourbon restoration, but these historical analogies never really go anywhere.  I think it would have been more useful to draw analogies to powerful families in some parts of Latin America and the Middle East which combine business dealings, military connections, political power gained directly by inheritance or ratified in doubtful elections, and webs of business partners who have lucrative government contracts.  It's also clear that Dubya is a distinct politician with a very different political base from his father, although Phillips is right in pointing out the numerous Bush I holdovers working for Bush II and their common threads of secrecy, covert operations, oil, and Persian Gulf ambitions. <br /> <br />This book doesn't succeed in its broad goal of placing Dubya's politics firmly in a dynastic tradition stretching back four generations, or even in fully explicating what those earlier generations were up to.  But it does contain many valuable insights and much striking information.	2004-08-27
US	52438156	RO3EC5UNR148J	0805033726	216366114	K Is for Killer	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A Kinsey Noir	Kinsey Millhone is hired to investigate the death of Lorna Kepler, a young woman who worked by day as a secretary in the local water works, but by night doubled as a high class call girl and occasional porn performer. <br /> <br />This is an unusually dark outing for Kinsey - set mostly at night with Kinsey moving among seedy types associated with prostitution, organized crime, and pornography. With a strain of noir, sex mixed with corrupt water politics, there are reminders here of 'Chinatown'. <br /> <br />Fans of Grafton will generally get what they come for here: as always, the characters are strong and the writing excellent. Lorna is dead before the story begins, but is still rather memorable, described through the people who knew her and Kinsey's investigation. Her family is also interesting: not just stereotyped victims but complex characters struggling with the events, including siblings who were jealous of Lorna's beauty and ambition and aren't entirely devastated by her death. (The side characters that Grafton has built up around Kinsey are largely left out of this story.) The mystery, however, isn't handled very well: as expected, we ultimately learn who killed Lorna, but never really understand why. <br /> <br />Overall, this is better than 'J', the weakest yet of Grafton's mysteries, but not up to her best.	2004-08-21
US	52438156	R3V4LDH8THKGEU	0945707169	11201625	1: Benjamin Harrison: Hoosier Warrior (Signature Ser. ; Vol. 1)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	A mediocre biography	The first in a set of three, this volume runs from Harrison's birth through the end of the Civil War, in which Harrison helped raise a company of Indiana volunteers and became a Brigadier General active in Sherman's march on Atlanta. <br /> <br /> <br />First off, this is, to my knowledge, the only real biography of Benjamin Harrison available.  So if that's what you're looking for, I don't think there's anyplace else to go.  Which makes it all the more a shame that this isn't really a very good biography. <br /> <br />Not only is a trilogy rather excessive for a comparatively minoir figure like Harrison (although the author, like most biographers, argues that his subject is more important than generally supposed), the worse flaw is that it doesn't, even at that excessive length, tell us what we want to know.   It focusses too closely on the events, often minor, of Harrison's life, without telling enough about the major incidents of the era.  For instance, the rise of the Republican party was an enormous event, in some ways as consequential as the Civil War.  Harrison, the grandson of the only Whig president and the son of a Whig congressman who cast his lot with the new party, would be an ideal figure to explore how the Republicans replaced the Whigs, yet why he went against his family's party is never explored or explained.  Was it because he had passionate opinions about abolition?  Remarkably, the book discusses the details of his work for the Republican Party, but says less about his stance on Kansas, Dred Scott, John Brown, and the other great controversies of the 1850s.  Many contemporary newspaper clippings praising Harrison's speeches are quoted - it seems he had quite a reputation for oratory in his day - but no quotes from the speeches themselves to show us why he was an admired orator and what his ideas were.	2004-08-21
US	52438156	R240VJT33IBH5D	0449221504	216366114	K Is for Killer (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A mixed outing for Kinsey	Kinsey Millhone is hired to investigate the death of Lorna Kepler, a young woman who worked by day as a secretary in the local water works, but by night doubled as a high class call girl and occasional porn performer.  <br /> <br />This is an unusually dark outing for Kinsey - set mostly at night with Kinsey moving among seedy types associated with prostitution, organized crime, and pornography.  With a strain of noir mixed with corrupt water politics, there are reminders here of 'Chinatown'. <br /> <br />Fans of Grafton will generally get what they come for here: as always, the characters are strong and the writing excellent.  Lorna is dead before the story begins, but is still rather memorable, described through the people who knew her and Kinsey's investigation.  Her family is also interesting: not just stereotyped victims but complex characters struggling with the events, including siblings who were jealous of Lorna's beauty and ambition and aren't entirely devastated by her death.  (The side characters that Grafton has built up around Kinsey are largely left out of this story.)  The mystery, however, isn't handled very well: as expected, we ultimately learn who killed Lorna, but never really understand why.  <br /> <br />Overall, this is better than 'J', the weakest yet of Grafton's mysteries, but not up to her best.	2004-08-16
US	52438156	R1LBB9XWOK1FU8	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Insider account of the Bush administration	The first two years of the Bush administration are described here, primarily from the viewpoint of Paul O'Neill, a fomer CEO, moderate Republican, and Bush's first Treasury Secretary. <br /> <br />As an executive, O'Neill has some insight into how management teams succeed and fail, and his diagnosis of the group around Bush is persuasive.   O'Neill concludes that Bush is \\"cut off from everyone other than a circle around him... that conceals him from public view and keeps him away from... disinterested perspectives about what's real.\\"  The circle is run by Dick Cheney, who is seen as controlling most of Bush's policy directions.  O'Neill considered Cheney a friend and a pragmatist when they worked together in the Ford administration, and is baffled by how he became the inflexible ideologue described in this book, a question that is never answered. <br /> <br />There is a distinct air of CYA in the treatment of certain isues, particularly the tax cuts and the transformation of the solid surplus left by Clinton into a massive deficit.  Alan Greenspan, a close friend of O'Neill's, is particularly implausible here.  Seeking to maintain his reputation as a deficit hawk, Greenspan and/or O'Neill have told a story in which Greenspan is utterly astonished that the complex statement he made to Congress in 2001 was boiled down to the sound bite \\"Greenspan supports tax cuts\\".  It's more than slightly hard to swallow the implication that Greenspan was a misused naif, ignorant of the wicked ways of the Washington media.  This is one of several points where Suskind could have written a better book if he had pushed harder against the often self-serving narratives of his sources. <br /> <br />Along with tax and budget policy, Bush's decisions on global warming (a direct reversal of his campaign statements), Iraq, and the corporate management scandals following the Enron bankruptcy are also discussed at some length.  Some of what O'Neill has said on these subjects, especially the strong focus on regime change in Iraq that preceded 9/11, has been widely reported. <br /> <br />By the end of his tenure, O'Neill was clearly disgusted with a President he didn't respect and an administration whose policies he didn't support and had little influence over.  He was unable even to obtain an appropriation for a measly $25 million for a pet project, coming out of his widely publicized trip with Bono, for water wells in Africa.  Why he waited to be fired, instead of resigning, is another question Suskind is too polite to his primary source to ask. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a good book that could have been better.  It does give some useful insight into the inner workings of the Bush White House.  As I've made clear, I think it fails to give O'Neill the same critical attention it gives to Bush.  And it makes no real effort to look outside the inner circle and see how their policies played out in Washington and the nation.  And for all of O'Neill's heavily praised expertise in process and management, it also offers no prescriptions except for the implied one of removing George Bush - and O'Neill is still too much of a Republican to come right out and say that.	2004-08-13
US	52438156	R296FJH96YZM9X	0060913010	121965681	Rumors of Peace	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Coming of Age in war time	I have a definite attachment to this book.  Of all the coming of age novels I've read, this is the only one set in the very same county where I actually came of age.  (The book is set in \\"Mendoza\\", California - to those who know the area, obviously Martinez.) The book is well observed; in the very first paragraphs she gives a response to the chestnut that California has no seasonal weather which is exactly right.  So even though I grew up in another generation born long after Pearl Harbor and Hiroshima, another gender, and a town that was a suburb set between other suburbs rather than a small town set between hills, it was easy for me to identify with Suze, the narrator of this novel.    The story starts when Suze is ten, when the distant war first impacts her through her mother's response to the invasion of Denmark, where she has relatives, running through to her teen years shortly after the war.  It ends just after the war, with Suze ready to grow out of her adolescent crush on an older college student, an exiled German Jew named Egon.    In between, the story of the trivial adventures of teenage cliques that seem so momentous and the events far away that really are, each shaping Suze's life, is nicely told.  This rather short novel is largely gentle and uneventful, a skillfully built contrast to the unimaginably violent backdrop.  The characters are beautifully realized and the vignettes, even such ordinary things as teen girls discussing their boyfriends or the current fashions in music, are written with a mastery that makes them more memorable than they might seem.	2004-08-12
US	52438156	R1DWV1WAJ6X5GA	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An inside account	This book works rather subtly to balance itself between supporters and enemies of Bush, so that each side has something to endorse. The book on the whole portrays Bush quite positively, but there is a good deal for critics if you look closely.          One obvious example is the famous meeting (ch. 23) in which Tenet says the WMD case in Iraq was a 'slam dunk'. The press accounts of this meeting make it sound like Tenet persuaded Bush and was responsible for the incorrect claims that Iraq had WMD stockpiles. In fact, as Woodward notes but doesn't emphasize, and many media accounts have ignored, this meeting took place in December 2002, and Cheney had been stating publicly since August that there was 'no doubt' Iraq had WMDs. Nor, does Woodward even ask the question of why, if this presentation raised doubts in Bush, there was not even an attempt to follow up or to re-examine the policies based on the assumption that Iraq had WMDs.          It's also pretty clear in this book that, in spite of claims to the contrary, the decision to go to war in Iraq was made long before the final days. As early as Feb, 2002, the date of Feb, 2003, was chosen for the invasion (ch. 9), and that remained in place until nearly the end - at the last minute, it was moved back to March, to put more supplies in place and allow for final negotiations at the UN that were insisted on by Blair and other allies and agreed to grudgingly by Bush.           One thing that is very striking is how really eager Bush and the neocons were to have a war. The UN track, which was officially dismissed as a waste of time, was never really engaged in good faith, but only because Blair insisted it had to be tried to satisfy UK domestic opinion. Cheney, in particular, sabotaged it precisely because he wanted a military rather than a diplomatic solution. Publicly, the US was trying to arrange for Saddam to go into exile without war, while Bush was secretly undermining those negotiations (ch. 29). It was also decided that, if an internal coup did overthrow Hussein, the US would use that as a signal to attack without first attempting to settle with the new government. A chilling passage near the end shows Cheney with his allies, celebrating the war and mocking moderates such as Powell and Scowcroft who had urged caution.          The overall impression is of a weak team with poor processes for making critical decisions. But by showing others negatively - Cheney manipulative and aggressive behind the scenes, Powell dithering and ineffective, Rumsfeld more involved with nurturing his reputation than running his department, and all of them sniping at each other - Bush comes out looking better by contrast.  At least he does if you don't ask who put this extraordinarily weak group into positions of such power.	2004-07-26
US	52438156	RSE6EEN1NX4E0	0385334141	735242912	Mother Night	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A remarkable story	This early work is quite uncharacteristic for Kurt Vonnegut, far more conventional than almost any other Vonnegut novel. It's unfortunate and surprising that he didn't write like this more often, because this relatively obscure novel just might be the best Kurt Vonnegut ever wrote.       Unlike most of his work, it has no elements of SF or the fantastic: no aliens, no synopses of novels by Kilgore Trout,no silly drawings thrown in for the hell of it, and no narration from a ghost as in Galapagos, although the narrator is about as near a ghost as a living man can be.      What it lacks in these areas is more than compensated by characters, often an afterthought in Vonnegut, but in this story rich and fully realized.      Howard Campbell is a marginally successful American playwright who became to the world world a notorious and legendary Nazi propagandist while secretly being an agent of the OSS (the predecessor of the CIA) whose broadcasts were filled with vital intelligence eagerly decrypted by American agents. After the war, Campbell was secretly repatriated to the US, but, for reasons that are never made clear, the truth was never revealed, so when Campbell's life of obscure retirement is interrupted by the exposure of his identity, he is treated as a traitor by most while being hailed as a hero by a small group of crackpot Nazi sympathizers.      Ultimately, he is abducted by Israeli agents and put on trial as a war criminal. The novel is presented as his memoirs written from an Israeli prison cell; memoirs which focus on his life as a spy and the loss of the great love of his life, an actress named Helga who was killed on the German equivalent of a USO tour.      The question at the book's heart is whether a mask, presented to the world long enough, becomes a reality rather than a mask. Campbell is told by a friend that, even if he were a spy, his broadcasts couldn't possibly have been more valuable as intelligence than they were as propaganda that kept Germanspirits up. Vonnegut himself seems to answer the question, saying in a brief foreword that the moral is, &quot;You are what you pretend to be, so be careful what you pretend to be.&quot; But is that what the novel really says? Campbell perhaps has ultimately done more evil than good, but he is not an evil man. At one point he meets a character who is willing, even eager, to pretend to be something she is not; Campbell is unwilling to accept the imposture.      Some amusing comic relief is provided by the neo-Nazis Campbell finds himself unwillingly thrown in with, who are treated as more ridiculous than sinister.	2004-07-20
US	52438156	R1908E5ZDV7A6S	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Doomsday was never more fun	This early classic was one of the books that made Vonnegut famous, and probably the first book where he really found successfully his particular style of black comedy.  (He aimed for something similar in Sirens of Titan, but that book, with some fine moments, is uneven and significantly less successful.)<br />The first persom narrator is known only as Jonah, although his first sentence is the allusive, \\"Call me Ishmael.\\"  He is writing a book about the atomic bomb that leads him to research on the late Dr Felix Hoenneker, a brilliant scientist who viewed science with pure curiosity.  Never caring about the practical implications of his work, Hoenneker made no distinction between working on the atom bomb and investigating how turtles retract their heads.<br />Seeking to learn more about Hoenneker from his surviving children, Jonah follows them to the impoverished island nation of San Lorenzo, loosely based on Haiti.  There he is introduced to Bokononism, the dominant religion of the island which, among its many unusual features, openly proclaims that it is a fraud.  A good part of this rather short novel is a detailed discussion of Bokononism, which is  one of Vonnegut's most memorable creations.<br />While on the island, Jonah also learns more about ice 9, the final project that Hoenneker worked on.  Ice 9 is ice with an entirely different crystalline structure from regular ice, which has the trait of freezing at normal temperatures.  Thus, if you mixed ice 9 with any body of water, it would promptly freeze.  Jonah soon finds reasons to doubt his assumption that ice 9 could not really exist.<br />Jonah's adventures come to a grim if strangely appropriate finale - I don't think Vonnegut has ever written a novel with a happy ending. The moral of the story is, it seems, that life is entirely without meaning or purpose.  And yet, the humor and vitality of the novel give it an energy and even joy strangely at contrast with its depressing message.	2004-07-19
US	52438156	R964YECYR6YNO	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A stitch in time	This story takes off from the same setting that Willis used in her earlier novel, \\"Doomsday Book\\", about Oxford historians who travel back in time to investigate past events and occasionally recover artifacts.  But the main characters from that book aren't re-used, and the style and themes are entirely different.  This is a sequel only in a very weak sense, and those who haven't read \\"Doomsday\\" (which is longer and considerably darker) can still enjoy it.    This is a light novel, with elements of a romance and a comedy of manners.  Ned Henry is suffering from time lag, having been run ragged by Lady Schrapnell, a wealthy heiress who is providing most of the funds to keep the research going.  Lady Schrapnell is a stickler for detail in her elaborate reconstruction of the Coventry Cathedral, and insists that the historians provide the Bishop's bird stump, a strikingly ugly work of art that was lost when the Cathedral was bombed in 1940.      The only way Ned can escape from Schrapnell is to go back to before she was born, so he is given a simple courier assignment to make a delivery in the Victorian era, where he can rest up for a few weeks after his task is completed.  Unfortunately, Ned is too time-lagged to be able to understand his instructions, so he is left wandering about the 1880s uncertain what he is delivering to whom, and never quite aware of whether he is preserving the proper time line or undermining it.  He does know that Tossie, the distant ancestress of Lady Schrapnell whose family home he is a guest in, is supposed to fall in love with her future husband in a few days, but he doesn't know who that is - only that it definitely isn't Cyril, the young gentleman he accidentally introduced to her, who is now wooing her with marked success.    The plot is complex and worked out in great detail - many apparently random details are ultimately brought together in an ending that is almost too clever.  The characters, major and minor, are nicely drawn.  All inall, thoroughly enjoyable.	2004-07-16
US	52438156	R3MXSHIEQKSI2F	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A fascinating alternate history	This is a complex and challenging novel, covering a group of related characters through multiple lifetimes, over centuries from about 1400 to the present, in an elaborate alternate history in which the black plague almost completely wiped out the population of Europe, preventing the rise of European culture and religion to world dominance.  Definitely not a lite read; it takes effort to follow Robinson's alternate history, accompanied by alternate geography and chronology.  But readers who have a taste for serious and thoughtful SF will be rewarded for their efforts.    Some highlights from the alternate history: (Contains some spoilers for early sections) about 1400, a mutated and incredibly potent version of the black plague wipes out most of Europe, eliminating it as a political or military force.  Christianity is eliminated as a civilization, and the later events are dominated by Chinese and Islamic culture.  Muslims, some of them refugees from mainstream Islam, gradually repopulate Europe.  Meanwhile, a Ming expedition, outfitted to invade Japan, gets caught in a strong Eastern current, misses Japan entirely, and winds up in San Francisco Bay.  The expedition is still very much a success, especially when it travels South and discovers the rich mines of Peru.  A later Chinese fleet succeeds in conquering Japan.    A group of reformist Muslims, chased by more traditional sects, sails west from Normandy and discovers Manhattan.  The Iriquois federation, becoming aware of the presence of alien cultures on both the West and East coasts, forms the North American tribes into a great union, capable of keeping the outsiders largely restricted to the coasts and holding the interior of the continent.    There is more, covering alternate histories of the Industrial Revolution, WWI, and the dicovery of fission, up to an age that look like roughly the present, with increasing global cooperation and, presumably, an alternate Francis Fukuyama to announce the End of Alternate History.    At key events in this timeline, we meet repeatedly the same group of people, recognized by keeping the same initials.  The key figures are:    B - A spiritual seeker, frequently a Buddhist clergyman.  I - A scientist or intellectual, fascinated with acquiring knowledge.  K - The activist of the group, at first seeking revenge, at other times power, and ultimately social transformation.    All of these are followed through various lives and deaths, meeting up repeatedly in the Bardo, the between life area of judgment from Tibetan Buddhism.  There are some minor accompanying characters, such as S, which is generally a feckless or irresponsible person, often of considerable authority, but these are the main ones.    Robinson has created numerous striking characters from these broad templates: a soldier in Tamerlane's army who ultimately becomes a slave in China, a protective tiger, a servant boy caught in the floods of a Chinese California, a young woman growing up in post-war Islamic France, and many more.  It's really a virtuoso trick to fit 600 years of alternate history into  one book while still having real characters to live the history, something Robinson has accomplished superbly.	2004-07-15
US	52438156	R3UWFIGO0095EA	0812570839	54983475	Destiny: Child of the Sky (Rhapsody Trilogy Book 3) (The Symphony of Ages)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A solid finale	This is the 3rd book in a trilogy, so a review is somewhat redundant.  If you've read the earlier volumes, you know whether Haydon is to your taste.  There won't be any abrupt surprises - this is very close in themes and style to the earlier volumes.  The Three from the first novel have become One, though - this book is almost entirely about Rhapsody.  <br />If you haven't read the earlier volumes of this trilogy, starting here is definitely a shaky idea - better to read from the first volume, Rhapsody.<br />This concluding volume does have a strong story line built around Rhapsody's quest to find the children of the Rakshas and use their blood to discover the host of the F'dor (like I said, you'll be at sea if you haven't read the other two volumes).  It then moves to the conclusion, as Rhapsody summons the Cymrians into council.  Too much of the plot is built on Ashe keeping secrets from Rhapsody for no very good reason, since the F'dor already knows about Rhapsody and Ashe.  <br /> While this book generally works well,  it occasionally strains under the burden of wrapping up the plot lines developed earlier. (The device used to explain the mysterious Meridion from the earlier volumes is, however, exceptionally clever - a nice final bow on the package.)  Although Haydon has written a sequel based on the popularity of this trilogy, this book brings all the major stories developed so far to a conclusion.	2004-07-13
US	52438156	RRHISLUIUNLKO	0786918004	593065494	Legacy of the Drow Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms(r) Omnibus)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Plenty of adventure - very little else	This is a collection of previously published adventures of Drizzt Do' Urden assembled into a single volume.  Urden is probably Salvatore's most popular character.  A 'Dark Elf', born and raised in an underground city dedicated to the worship of an evil spider queen, Urden has rejected the ways of his people to become a sort of knight errant, usually seen in company with human and other friends he has gathered in his journeys.    As shown by other reviews here, some readers really go for this style of fantasy, but I was largely unimpressed.  My main problem was that with the elaborately balanced cast of characters - Elf, Dwarf, Barbarian, Thief, Cleric, Assassin, Priestess, and various magical weapons and items - it often felt more like an RPG scenario than a novel.  That was especially true in the first book; the sequels were better but still not terrific.     The characters and dialogue are thin.  The surprises are few, the prose not particularly striking, character development entirely unknown, battles innumerable.  In general, the book seemed aimed at the teen market that is the heart of the RPG industry.    The first three volumes of the tetralogy tell the story of an attack from Menzabarranzan, Drizzt Do' Urden's place of origin, against the dwarves of Mithril Hall.  The final volume is a bit tacked on, not really the same story as the earlier books, although it is further adventures of the same characters.    Any of these four novels can be read as a stand-alone, although they do contain numerous spoilers for  prior Urden novels.  The 2nd through 4th also contain spoilers for the earlier novels in this set.	2004-07-12
US	52438156	R2N9FGXM529BXW	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	21	30	N	N	A fascinating inside account	This book describes efforts to stop terror from the perspective of a key player from the Reagan administration up to the invasion of Iraq. A lot obviously had to be kept secret, and there are quite a few places where tantalizing bits of information are withheld, but Clarke was able to say quite a bit; occasionally I was surprised by how much he did say for public consumption.<br />One criticism that should be dispensed with immediately is that the book is partisan. That's an attack made by partisan supporters of George W. Bush to discredit a damning account of him by a key player in Bush's signature issue. It also comes partially from one section in the preface (page x) where Clarke praises Clinton and criticizes the other presidents, all Republicans, whom he worked for. Those who take the time to read past the preface will find that it's atypical. Clarke is mostly positive, while not uncritical, about all three presidents he served prior to Dubya.<br />But since we already know about the big guys, the most interesting parts of the story are Clarke's adventures with the bureaucracy, working to get key agencies focussed on the terrorist threat. Clarke is brutal on former FBI Director Freeh, while praising others in the FBI. He also discusses why the CIA was unable to be really effective against Al Qaeda in spite of DCI Tenet's support for agressive action.<br />The Pentagon and JCS come in for plenty of criticism. In one memorable anecdote (p 144 - 145) Clarke talks about Clinton's frustration when the CIA admits it is unable to take out a key Al Qaeda figure in a known Khartoum location and the DoD submits plans that amount to a near-invasion of Sudan to go after one man. Later, he learns that Delta Force commandoes had prepared a workable plan to pick up the target with a small team, a fast, simple operation - exactly what Clinton had wanted. The Pentagon refused to submit the plan - while telling the Special Forces that Clinton had seen the plan and turned it down.<br />Stories like this help to explain the definite pro-Clinton slant in the book. Clarke was probably the single most powerful career bureaucrat in the Clinton administration, routinely chairing meetings with key cabinet officers, which certainly didn't make him less positive about Clinton. (Clinton seems to be the only president Clarke met with outside of crisis situations.) But that isn't the whole story. Clarke clearly was impressed by how seriously Clinton took the terrorism problem, offended, and angry, when Clinton's enemies showed more interest in attacking Clinton than in defending the nation. He was outraged after the famous incident in 1998 when an unsuccessful attempt to kill Bin Laden was falsely and widely portrayed as a 'Wag the Dog' distraction from the Lewinsky case. Thus also the harsh treatment of Freeh.<br />Dubya failed to take terrorism seriously before 9/11, in spite of warnings that an attack was coming. The method of attack wasn't known, but Clarke's detailed discussion of the preparations that were made, in 1996, to protect against a plane being flown into the Atlanta Olympics is an unsubtle rebuke to Rice's assertions that nobody could have conceived of the possibility. His deepest objection is that Iraq is the wrong war, a disastrous misstep that weakens the real war against Islamic extremists, as Clarke describes in detail in the final chapter. Clarke's essential objection against Bush is that, even after 9/11, he still wasn't truly serious about terrorism, and that is what Clarke sees as unforgivable.	2004-07-12
US	52438156	R3VPDM6XOCKH2I	0060145161	853275180	The Short Victorious War: The Russo-Japanese Conflict, 1904-5	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A  fast paced history	This is a quick-moving history of the Russo-Japanese war which. almost exactly a century ago, gave a sort of preview to some of the themes of the first half of the 20th Century.  With many similarities in tactics to WWI, this war also can be seen as the first successful example of the colonized nations fighting back to regain their pride and autonomy after the centuries in which European conquest spread around the world.<br />The author is interested mainly in the military dimension, and the major combats by land and sea are covered.  Critical events flowing from the war - the Portsmouth peace conference, the effect of Russia's defeat on the revolution of 1905, and the effect of Japan's victory in China and elsewhere in Asia, all are mentioned but inadequately discussed.<br />The writing is good and, with the inherently dramatic story being told, makes for a highly readable book.  As history it suffers from the fact that the author apparently knows neither Russian nor Japanese, and has used sources in neither language.  Direct accounts of the major battles by the men who fought, which surely exist in both languages, would have greatly improved the book.  Considering the emphasis in this book on military tactics, the maps included are inadequate both in number and detail.<br />In spite of these faults, the author has succeeded in his goal of writing an interesting and useful history of these important events for the general reader.	2004-07-10
US	52438156	R1MIV0NQGP3EJ2	0801859123	111406665	Andrew Jackson: The Course of American Freedom, 1822-1832	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Middle volume of a magisterial trilogy	The second volume of Remini's celebrated biography is inevitably rather less intriguing than the first.  While it's predecessor was largely about military campaigns and duels, this volume is more focussed on such dynamic topics as debt repayment and, especially, the controversy over renewing the charter of the US Bank.  <br />The controversial election of 1824 is covered in detail and well explained.  Remini also shows how the aftermath of that election reshaped American politics - the parties became far more organized.  Although the Democratic Party is spoken of as having been created by Jefferson, Jefferson was the leader of a group or faction more than a true party.  In a real sense it was created as a party when Calhoun and Van Buren agreed to unite their factions behind Jackson for the election of 1828.  The new era of national parties was illustrated in 1831-32, when, for the first time, national  conventions were held to nominate presidential candidates.  (The Democrats were so firmly Jackson's party that they didn't bother to formally nominate him, meeting mainly to ratify his desire that Van Buren replace Calhoun as the Vice Presidential candidate.)  <br />Also covered at length is the bizarre 'War of the Petticoats', when Jackson's cabinet was torn apart over the fact that some officials and their wives, spreading lascivious rumors about Peggy Eaton, wife of the Secretary of War, refused to appear at social events to which the Eatons were invited.  However absurd the incident sounds, the consequences were significant.<br />Along the way, I learned quite a few things ranging from remarkable to trivial.  For instance, I had never suspected that Jackson was the first President to veto a bill with a veto message that centered on what he believed to be the faults of the bill.  All prior vetos (there were only a few over 40 years) had been based on arguments that the bills vetoed were unconstitutional.  Vetoing partially on the merits (Jacvkson also thought thebill unconstitutional) was considered at the time a shocking extension of executive power.  I also learned that Jackson had the first 'kitchen cabinet', a term that dates from the tensions in the cabinet over the Petticoat War.  The kitchen cabinet, those friends who Jackson trusted more than many of the men in his official cabinet (also called the 'parlor cabinet' at the time) was so called because they supposedly used a back staircase from the White House kitchen to meet Jackson in his study.<br />Overall, a strong history with clear writing, a remarkable central character, and intriguing glimpses at the period covered.	2004-07-09
US	52438156	R1ZUREZIVPWI4B	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	4	46	50	N	N	Solid, but sometimes dull	Brock explores the history and structure of the right wing propaganda machine, and its impressive success in influencing mainstream media.  <br />The book has two principal virtues: it goes into history, tracing the right from the Goldwater era, thereby including much valuable material not found in some similar volumes which focus more exclusively on events of the Clinton/Bush years.  This gives the book a distinct and more thoughtful perspective.  And it shows the endless interconnections of the various people and organizations discussed in substantial, occasionally numbing detail.  By the time you finish this book, you will realize that Hillary's famous 'vast right wing conspiracy' is very real.<br />The main fault is that it is often overly partisan and indulges in some gratuitous attacks.  For instance, Kevin Phillips is spoken of as being influenced by two obscure Italian writers I've never heard of, who Brock says were also major influences in Fascism.  Offered without further elaboration, this amounts to nothing more than a cheap exercise in guilt by association.<br />Compared to the similar books by Franken and Conason, this one has, as I noted, more detail and more historical perspective.  It isn't written as well, and certainly lacks the humor of Franken.  It also focusses more on media and propaganda and has little exploration of issues and policies, except those, such as the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine, that relate specifically to the media.  (Perhaps the most comparable to this book would be the recent book by Alterman, which I haven't read.)  Conason is far more interested in broad policy questions, while Franken's book, the most entertaining but a disorganized grab-bag, bounces unpredictably between media criticism, satire, and serious policy argument.	2004-07-09
US	52438156	R38DA807DGS0LU	0801859115	818354949	Andrew Jackson: The Course of American Empire, 1767-1821. Vol. 1	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent biography of a remarkable man	In the first of three volumes, Remini carries Jackson from birth to the tragic loss of much of his family in the Revolution, through his early years in politics, his duels, and the Battle of New Orleans, up to his term as first American Governor of the territory of Florida, acquired by his own military victories.    Remini admires Jackson, and argues persuasively for his huge historic importance - not just President Jackson, but the younger Jackson of this book, responsible for acquiring a large chunk of what ultimately became the Southeast USA in several Indian wars and treaty negotiations, the campaigns of the War of 1812, and his subsequent attacks on the Spanish colony of Florida.  Many historians have condemned Jackson for siezing Florida without the explicit approval of the Monroe administration; Remini is convincing in his argument that Monroe must have known and encouraged Jackson's actions, although he was careful not to say so directly, since Spain and the US were not at war.    Remini doesn't by any means try to whitewash Jackson.  The man shown in these pages is impressive but often distinctly unpleasant.  Remini quite directly calls him a 'bully', and the story of his feuds and duels shows a man who is ruthless and foolishly ill-tempered.  The ugliest part of the Jackson story is his treatment of the native tribes; Remini offers some half-hearted apologias for Jackson's ruthless treatment even of those natives who fought with him in his campaigns, but tells the  facts frankly enough that most readers will come to a harsher conclusion.    Remini shows that Jackson's famous victory in the Battle of New Orleans was a closer thing than is generally supposed.  Jackson carelessly left a crucial avenue open to the British, and a more determined general would have marched on the city and probably taken it before Jackson had his defenses properly prepared.  As it was, the British foolishly gave Jackson sufficient time to settle in and fortify his line, only thenattacking it with disastrous results.  Although this battle is often viewed as an afterthought (the Treaty of Ghent, ending the war, was actually signed a few days before the battle was fought), Remini also shows that a British victory would have had real, and catastrophic, consequences for the US.    Along with the colorful and often complex story of Jackson's life and activities, Remini fills in the story with good explanations of the conditions of the period.  In particular, he gives a good explanation of the values and traits of westerners, and East-West conflicts, at an early time in the country's history when the Pacific was barely dreamed of and the 'Far West' meant the Mississippi.     Remini's writing is excellent, and the biography is detailed and exhaustively researched without being pedantic or boring.	2004-06-09
US	52438156	R33962TMMA2AVO	0886777690	613842763	A Thousand Words for Stranger	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A strong debut	Czerneda's first novel is designed rather cleverly.  It's written primarily in the first person by Sira, who at the beginning is trying to escape pursuers with no knowledge of who she is, who is chasing her, or why.  Sira finds Jason Morgan, an interstellar trader who helps her escape, and they travel in Morgan's ship, trying to stay one step ahead of enemies and learn the secret of Sira's indentity.    As the story proceeds, the main characters inevitably fall in love, although Morgan is human and Sira is a member of the Clan, a mysterious group with human appearance and psychic powers.  It is never made clear whether the Clan is descended from humans by some sort of genetic manipulation/breeding program or is entirely distinct, but it is very clear that the Clan regards humans, and the many other sentient species who populate the Trade Pact universe, as roughly equivalent to lice.    An interesting twist is that Sira goes from desperately trying to learn what her real identity is to having deep reservations about learning her own secrets.  There are clues suggesting that Sira's earlier personality may have been a very dubious character.  Recovering her memories might mean the de facto death of Sira's current identity, yet failing to do so might leave her helpless against the enemies chasing her for reasons she can't understand.    The story and characters are good, the writing somewhat unpolished.  At some key points I was unable to understand clearly what was going on.  I think Czerneda has the potential to  write really terrific SF; this book, although quite good, doesn't fulfill it.    This is the first volume of a trilogy.  While it leaves some questions about the Clan open for the sequels, it finishes up its main story lines enough to stand on its own.	2004-06-09
US	52438156	R2F85RBLB5BBT8	0679733698	172085928	Dragon Lady: The Life and Legend of the Last Empress of China	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A fascinating account	Seagrave tells the story of Tzu Hsi, the celebrated Empress Dowager who dominated the Qing court for almost half a century.  He goes entirely against the views of earlier biographers, who have labeled Tzu Hsi as an evil genius, to give a story of a fairly ordinary woman overwhelmed by  the nearly impossible task of trying to reform a failing dynasty against intense opposition from the reactionary Manchu noblemen.<br />Familiar events to students of Qing dynasty history, such as the Tung Chih era, the Hundred Days Reform, and the Boxer Rebellion are all here, but these events, especially the last, are treated quite differently by Seagrave, who tells a story entirely different from most accounts.<br />Seagrave also goes into some detail regarding the lives and characters of George Morrison and Edmund Backhouse, China experts and correspondents for the London Times, who are the primary creators of the traditional accounts of Tzu Hsi's crimes.  Backhouses's extravagantly pornographic accounts are particularly bizarre - it's incredible that he could have ever been taken seriously as a historical source. <br />There are some problems with the book.  Every source listed in the bibliography is in English, raising the question of how much Seagrave has studied the Chinese literature, even if he knows the language.  Seagrave does make some statements of fact which are obviously speculation, such as \\"Tzu Hsi pushed for her nephew's selection  as the new Emperor in part to rescue him from his mother's abuse.\\"  (p 161) And the endnotes are also occasionally off, referring to the wrong page in the text.  These flaws are fairly minor, but they are troublesome in a book which revises traditional understandings so radically.<br />One subject which Seagrave touches on briefly, but really could have expanded further, is the consistent demonization of women in traditional Chinese history.  Women were blamed for the collapse of the three earliest dynasties.  Empress Wu, in the Tang dynasty, was also described as a tyrant and nymphomaniac, often compared to Tzu Hsi, but it seems probable that this account also was exaggerated if not altogether false.  Another imperial mistress was blamed for sparking a civil war that ended the Tang's glory days.  Nor has this ended in the modern era - the attempt to blame the disasters of the Cultural Revolution on Mao's wife shows that Chinese tradition is still strong in the Communist age.<br />Seagrave's account of this important era, and of how mythology and pornograph<BR>y were turned into history is an amazing story, full of colorful incidents.	2004-06-08
US	52438156	R1AUP85GTVJDA	0671026364	989094907	Resurrecting Ravana  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A Mediocre Buffy Adaptation	This novel from the superb TV series has Buffy and the Scoobies battling demons called rakshasas, taken from Hindu mythology, who can turn friends violently against each other and are trying to do the same to the Scooby Gang.<br />It's a good idea, but the exploration of it here isn't compelling.  My main problem is exactly what the last reviewer complained of: Garton doesn't seem to have a real command of the show and its characters.  The behavior and dialogue just aren't quite right.  You could explain that as the effects of the rakshasa magic, but Garton lets slip a few times that he doesn't know enough about Sunnydale.  Willow describes a new Sunnydale High guidance counselor created for this story, Ms Daruwalla, as the first real person hired by Sunnydale High since Rupert Giles - ignoring her close friendship with Jenny Calendar.  At another point, Willow say she doesn't know anybody who's ever been transformed into an animal, ignoring the transformation of Buffy into a mouse and Xander into a jackal (or was it hyena?).  And although the story takes place at a time when Faith is in town, she is never mentioned in the book.<br />Granted, these little mistakes are only going to upset obsessive Buffy fans like yours truly, but isn't that pretty much the target audience for these books?  I really can't see many of them being sold to or read by people who haven't seen the series. <br />The plot does have some nice twists, and the sections where Buffy is playing detective, trying to track down the source and nature of the latest evil, are pretty good.  But overall, I didn't think this one had enough bite.	2004-06-06
US	52438156	R15TI5PG1Y8DOU	0451211111	577171295	Irresistible Forces	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A mixed bag	This anthology includes writers of romance and of sf/fantasy contributing stories which blend the genres.<br /><br />Like other reviewers, I picked it up mainly for the Bujold story. (Don't any of these other writers have fans?)  But I also read the rest, and there were some interesting finds.<br /><br />Bujold's entry is the first and best, with several familiar characters from Miles's Free Dendarii days showing up at Vorkosigan House as guests at his wedding.  It's a blast for established fans like myself, but I have my doubts that it would work for somebody unfamiliar with the characters.<br /><br />Putney's story is about a secret society of mages who work to protect England facing the Spanish Armada.  The characters lacked real depth, hard to create in such a short space.  But the idea was interesting.  Putney is working on a novel, probably ultimately a series, on the same concept, and this was good enough that I'll want to check out the novel.<br /><br />I've read one of Asaro's Skolian Empire novels and it didn't impress me, perhaps because I started in the middle of the series.  But the story here, also from that universe, didn't work either.  One problem was that she didn't really use the Skolian setting - with very minor changes, this could have been a traditional romance in a medieval setting.  The basic story - a character from an aristocratic house flees an arranged marriage for true love - is too familiar, and there wasn't enough different in this version to make it fresh.  And the main characters were too young, only about 13.  That was a problem because they didn't act it - they seemed more like about 17 - and it also undermined the whole story.  It really doesn't make a lot of sense for characters so young to make such huge decisions even for their own lives, much less when they could affect many others.<br /><br />Deb Stover's story of a man reincarnated as a woman to repair some of the damage he did in life just didn't work for me.  But Jo Beverly's story of a colony world threatened by a mysterious native life form did - it actually used SF elements more than others in the book.  At least it seemed to - in retrospect, both the alien threat and the methods used against it were so vaguely explained that the story was in some ways more of a fantasy.  These stories are the book's most original, going for something more innovative than the standard boy-meets-girl formula of the romance.<br /><br />Jennifer Roberson was the other writer in this collection whose work I've read previously and wasn't impressed by.  The story here, while it manages the tricky feat of uniting the two most famous legends of early England, Robin Hood and the Arthurian cycle, in one short story, didn't change my mind.	2004-06-04
US	52438156	R3LTKU44KU689K	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	4	12	19	N	N	A personal and provocative acount	Manji has written an open letter, directed to her fellow Muslims, calling for a reformation of the religion and a change in the community's values.  Manji is disturbed by the rise of Islamic terrorism, but she is emphatic in not letting the non-terrorist Muslim mainstream community off the hook.  She argues persuasively that mainstream Islam, as practiced both in Islamic countries and in the West, is tainted by sexism, anti-Semitism, insularity, and a contempt for other faiths.    The book lacks an academic's depth of expertise, either in Islamic literature or in Western scholarship.  Manji has read broadly but not deeply, and since she discusses topics rangings from the career of Muhammad to Maimonides to the Palestine Mandate to social conditions in contemporary Bangla Desh, I wouldn't be surprised to find she has made factual errors.  However, it's worth noting that those who attack her depth of knowledge have offered pretty thin evidence of actual errors, not much more than a few overly sweeping generalizations.     If Manji isn't a trained scholar, she is a trained journalist, and the sections built from her personal experiences, as a girl growing up Muslim in a Western city (Vancouver) and a trip to Israel and the Occupied Territories, are the best parts of the book.  I wish there had been more of this.    The bulk of the book is an argument for Muslims to practice Ijtihad, to question and think freely about their faith and community traditions.  Manji discusses various problems with contempoarary Islam, with a particular focus on the low status of women, and argues that Muslims of past eras benefitted from an openness to other ideas that today's Muslims lack.  She is unsparing in rejecting those who want to blame all Islam's problems on Western imperialism or colonialism.    Manji is undoubtedly right in most of what she says.  However her main arguments, that women should be treated like real human beings, and that ideas should be debated rather than swallowed without analysis or understanding, will hardly be revelatory to the Western readers of this book.  And, if the reviews here are any indication, she has had little success in reaching the fellow Muslims who are her main target.	2004-06-02
US	52438156	R28MZVFS7EQCQH	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Truth - the Antidote to Lying Liars	It's easy to put together a string of jokes about George Bush's dubious intellect and white collar draft dodging, Bill O'Reilly's blowhard bullying, or almost anything related to Ann Coulter.  What's much harder is to do real political and media criticism, engage in serious discussion of policy, and be genuinely funny at the same time.  That's what Franken has set out to do, and he largely succeeds.  <br />The first 100 pages or so of this book take aim at O'Reilly, Coulter, Sean Hannity, and other titans of right wing propaganda, nailing their lies and evasions with considerable schadenfreude.  This part is superbly done.  Franken is consistently entertaining and his attacks are dead on target.<br />The remainder is primarily an attack on George Bush, although Franken goes along quite a few detours.  <br />This really isn't a unified book so much as a series of sketches, mostly connected and occasionally coming from way out in left field.  As such, it's definitely hit and miss, although the hits far outnumber the misses.  The chapter on the Paul Wellstone memorial is easily the best in the book; it's both a moving tribute to the man and his friends and an unsparing look at the lies that were spread to use the Wellstone service for Republican propaganda.  The 'Operation Chickenhawk' story is extremely funny, as is the visit to Bob Jones University.  The personal anecdotes of his encounters with O'Reilly, Paul Wolfowitz, Rich Lowry, and others are excellent.  There are some weaker sections, such as the chapter on Franken's search for weapons of mass destruction, a one act play about the Bush tax cuts, and an attack on a stupid editorial on crime by Paul Gigot where Franken uncharacteristically gets his numbers mixed up.  The last 80 pages or so is particularly a grab bag and, except for the Bob Jones story, most of it could have been dropped without great loss.<br />Most of the book is terrific, and the central case, that the propagandists of the current 'conservative' movement, whether in government or media, routinely lie with shocking brazenness and almost no consequences, is thoroughly demonstrated.   This book is a valuable resource for Americans aiming to take back our country from the present cabal.	2004-05-27
US	52438156	R3DT4LHNT2ZXDI	0312187408	492425611	All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of Slavery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Superior Biography	This is the last and probably the best book completed by the late Henry Mayer.  <br />Mayer admired Garrison, the most important leader of the abolitionist movement.  In this book, he succeeds in renovating the reputation of a great reformer and activist who has often been neglected or written off as a crank.<br />Garrison and the abolitionists were originally hardly more popular in the North than in the South.  They were seen as disrupting the Union and were regarded with suspicion for their pro-black beliefs - public opinion in the North was only marginally less racist than in Dixie.  Garrison's courage and consistent refusal to trim his convictions for popular acceptance led to a career with an outsized share of controversy, oppobrium, and in several cases physical danger.<br />Some reviewers have felt the book is too long, and it is hefty.  But the length is necessary for Mayer to give a full portrait, which shows not only the man, but also the era he lived in.  In particular, Mayer writes extensively about abolitionism as a movement.  Abolitionists, and Garrison himself, struggled with many problems - whether to compromise by supporting politicians whose platforms called for less than full abolition, evolving from a paternalist movement of mostly privileged whites to a movement in which free blacks and escaped slaves could play a meaningful role, and reconciling the pacifist leanings of many to their role in a war against slaveholders - that will be of interest to contemporary political activists.  Mayer also shows how, after abolition was accomplished, former abolitionists seeking new causes worked for other advances, including the first stirrings of the women's suffrage movement.	2004-05-26
US	52438156	R2J7123NEWWPBF	0520218655	345797533	Kosovo: How Myths and Truths Started a War	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Balanced and informative	This book analyzes the gradual rise in ethnic tensions in Kosovo, a region of the former Yugoslavia ruled by Serbia but populated primarily by Albanians, in the years between the death of Tito and the collapse of Yugoslavia.    The focus is rather narrow.  The author makes no attempts to tell the full story of the Serbian-Albanian conflict over Kosovo, which has roots in the Middle Ages, or to discuss the recent developments since the 1999 war.      What she does do, and do quite well, is describe in detail the conflicts of the period she does discuss, and the way in which Serbs and Albanians saw the same events in narratives so entirely opposed that even discussing their differences, much less resolving them, was extraordinarily diificult.  In addition to her own analysis, Mertus includes extensive sections where both Serbs and Albanians discuss these events in their own words.    The period in question doesn't lack for events that each side can narrate to its own purposes.  It begins with mass demonstrations of Albanians for equal rights (or for secession from Yugoslavia) and also includes the mass poisoning of Albanian children (or a mass hysteria, or deliberate hoax), the murder of several Serb soldiers of the Yugoslav Army by a mentally ill Albanian recruit (or a large Albanian conspiracy), a Serbian farmer who suffered vicious sexual humiliation from a gang of Albanian thugs (or concocted a hoax to hide his own sexual proclivities), etc.        The greatest strength of this book is its fairness.  Much of the literature relating to the Yugoslav wars of the past decade is thinly disguised propaganda for one side or the other; this book genuinely seeks the truth, but notes that where each side is so wrapped in its own narratives of key events, finding out definitively what really happened can be almost impossible.    One target audience for this book is people doing nation building  or related NGO work in undeveloped countries generally, not merely Kosovo or theBalkans.  Mertus provides an added chapter discussing lessons from the work that her own and other NGOs carried out in Kosovo, and how such lessons can apply to other areas.	2004-05-18
US	52438156	R2VDU25PU09ZVL	1886778205	160684725	Shards of Honor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great launching for a great series	This is the starting point of the celebrated Miles Vorkosigan series, now running to about 15 total books, which has become one of the most successful in the SF field, with multiple Hugo and Nebula awards.<br />The current story is actually set years before Miles is born, and sets the story up by showing how his parents, Aral Vorkosigan and Cordelia Naismith, meet, originally as enemies, when Cordelia is captured by Aral on a recently discovered world that both Vorkosigan's homeworld of Barrayar and Naismith's Beta Colony would like to lay claim to.<br />The story moves on several levels at once, and manages to succeed on all of them.  The SF adventure, the political/military drama,  and the romance each work without stepping on the other's toes.  Aral Vorkosigan is a deeply conflicted character, and through his own troubles we get an introduction to the conflicts and contradictions of Barrayar, which will shape so much of the life of Miles Vorkosigan.  (Bujold is impressively skilled at creating distinctive and interesting societies to set her stories in; she doesn't get nearly the credit she deserves for this.)  The scenes set on Beta Colony even introduce a touch of humor and political satire.<br />A small flaw is that the story reaches its dramatic conclusion a bit too long before it actually ends; there is a fairly lengthy chunk at the end which isn't really necessary for this story but is critical to set up events in the sequels.  The book is relatively short and moves at a very fast clip until the end, so this shouldn't spoil your pleasure.	2004-05-10
US	52438156	R2A07KM0K1O51L	0814756603	459801150	Beyond the Mountains of the Damned: The War Inside Kosovo	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A good journalistic account	McAllester has told the story of the war in Kosovo from his own perspective, as a journalist moving around the province without official sanction, and from the perspective of several Kosovars living in the city of Pec, like most of Kosovo a formerly Serbian city which is now primarily Albanian.<br />This story is effective.  The violent finale is one the reader will see coming, but it remains shocking and powerful - these are real people and not fictional characters.  McAllester has done a good job in describing the nightmare for ordinary people trying to live through war and ethnic cleansing.  His account of his own experiences is less gripping, but reasonably interesting.<br />What he hasn't done is give a broader perspective.  This book will tell you little about the Kosovo war, it's historical background, the breakup of Yugoslavia, or the war's outcome and significance.  For those who are looking for a broader history of these events, this book is entirely inadequate.	2004-05-08
US	52438156	R33T48R6BLZX7I	0553294873	115362492	Stopping at Slowyear	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A remarkable short novel	This is an impressive late work by the celebrated SF master Frederick Pohl. It's a remarkably simple story; a standalone work of less than 150 pages in which relatively little actually happens.<br />The crew of a sort of interstellar tramp steamer/trader, unable to compete on the major trade routes, visits an obscure and out of the way planet called Slowyear because its year is equivalent to almost 20 Earth years.  The population of the planet and the ship are introduced to each other, and in the process to the reader.  A startling twist at the end makes the story deeply memorable.	2004-05-07
US	52438156	RLSKKT58AE11E	0345346904	289202770	Gateway (Heechee Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An outstanding story	&quot;Gateway&quot; tells the story of the ultimate futuristic gold rush.  In the 21st century, an asteroid known as Gateway is discovered containing hundreds of ancient space ships, all of them with pre-programmed courses already set.  The builders of the ships are referred to as Heechees, but very little is known of who they were, why they built the asteroid, or why the Heechee disappeared.  Since no human knows how to steer the ships or predict the destinations, explorers have to get in the ships, activate the program, and then go where it takes them.  Some discover vast wealth; many never return or come back dead because they have run out of food or air.<br />Robinette Broadhead becomes a Gateway prospector as one of the few avenues of advancement open to a poor person on Earth.  This book tells of his trips interspersed with his conversations with a computerized therapist.<br />The setting is interesting, and the story is very effective.  I would recommend this book highly.<br />This is the opener of a series which suffers from what might be called the &quot;Dune&quot; Effect: a terrific first book, with diminishing returns in subsequent volumes. Pohl ultimately does resolve the mystery of the Heechees, along with other questions not introduced in this book; unfortunately the answers are less interesting than the questions, and the story loses momentum well before the end of the series.  I would recommend  the sequel, &quot;Beyond the Blue Event Horizon&quot;, but the final two volumes aren't up to snuff.	2004-05-07
US	52438156	RGBCYDWYVZUZG	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	24	37	N	N	A strong account of Bush's misdeeds	This latest addition to the flood of books critical of George W Bush is distinguished primarily by its author.  For those too young to remember, John Dean was a central figure in the Watergate coverup who, caught in his lies and forced to become a prosecution witness, became the the prosecution's star witness and the first to directly implicate Richard Nixon in criminal acts.<br />That authorial background could be a mere gimmick, but Dean uses his knowledge of the inner workings of a runaway presidency, as well as his legal expertise, to bring real insight to his analysis of Dubya.  His discussion of Bush's excessive claims of executive privilege in chapter 3 benefits from both.  The analysis in Chapter 5 of Bush's misuse of Public Law 107-243 (the Iraq war authorization) is another instance of Dean using his legal skills to break through Bush's deceptive rhetoric.  And numerous discussion throughout the book of instances, both widely known and obscure, of the Bush II White House using dirty tricks and federal power against those who expose its secrets show that Dean still remembers Watergate, even if most of Washington has forgotten.<br />The theme of this book is secrecy, and it is persuasive both in showing how this administration has gone farther that its predecessors - including Nixon himself - in concealing information from the public as well as arguing the danger of the conduct.  And the book is nothing if not topical, it includes an extensive discussion of Cheney's attempts to conceal the records of his energy comission, argued before the Supreme Court just a few days ago. <br />The tradeoff for that topicality is that the book isn't as carefully researched or edited as it might have been, and that leads to a few howlers.  John Ashcroft is described as the first \\"attorney general with presidential ambitions [since] A. Mitchell Palmer\\".  Hardly - does the name Bobby Kennedy ring a bell?  But on areas more central to his thesis, Dean has been careful and seems to have all his facts right.<br />Is this administration really worse than Watergate?  Dean points out correctly that the exposure of the identity of Valerie Plame, an act which potentially endangered her safety and struck directly at the country's security, is genuinely worse than anything done by Nixon or his aides.  And Woodward's new book has revealed that Bush was personally involved in using money allocated for Afghanistan to prepare for war with Iraq, probably an impeachable offense.	2004-04-28
US	52438156	REL9UTVLE7UN7	156931070X	949459133	Mai The Psychic Girl: Perfect Collection Book 1	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Strong art, weak story	This tells the story of Mai, a Japanese school girl who becomes the target of vague organizations of powerful conspirators who want to use her for her psychic powers.<br />The art is interesting, and often quite attractive, although a bit of gratuitous soft core jailbait porn is occasionally thrown in.  While the quality of the artwork is generally high, I was less impressed than some reviewers by the art in the fighting scenes, of which there are many; it was often difficult to follow what was happening.  There are some elements of the art also which seem to make no sense; Mai is described as having inherited her powers through her mother, who was the latest in a line of psychics going back for centuries and linked to a particular Japanese temple and village, yet the mother, when she is shown, has entirely Caucasian features.  <br />The story takes off a bit slowly, and the characters aren't entirely developed.<br />This volume is the first of three, although the other two, strangely enough, don't seem to be on Amazon yet.  Unfortunately, the sequels aren't as good as this one.  The characters change suddenly, Mai and her enemies acquire new powers without warning when it forwards the plot, and the ultimate evil plan of Mai's enemies, when it is revealed, is utterly unbelievable.  <br />I would give this volume on its own a mild recommendation, but it isn't really complete on its own and I can't recommend the full set.	2004-04-28
US	52438156	RQR2C980STYCP	0718127641	125173182	Bare-faced Messiah: True Story of L. Ron Hubbard	Books	5	39	43	N	N	A  fascinating story of an astonishing life	Miller is the first writer to conduct real research into the life story of L. Ron Hubbard.  Earlier writers, even those highly critical of Scientology such as Paulette Cooper, had tended to take Hubbard's official biography at face value.    In fact, Hubbard was a man of immense ability, energy, ambition, and ego.  He regularly undertook difficult projects, and, when describing the results, regularly transformed failure or marginal success into dazzling triumph.  Miller's work in separating fact from fiction in Hubbard's early exploits is valuable, as is his recounting of the early years and growth of Scientology and Dianetics.    Miller has, though, probably underestimated his subject.  He ends with the prediction that Scientology is not likely to long outlive its founder.  Although Scientology is struggling - propaganda describing it as the world's fastest growing religion is as fictional as Hubbard's career as a war hero - it remains very much alive.  It also has had a vast influence on many similar movements (quite a few started by ex-Scientologists), an intriguing story that Miller passes by entirely.  However, Miller is centering on Hubbard's life; he wasn't attempting to write the definitive study on the subjects of Scientology and Dianetics.    Aside from its value, this is just an interesting story, one so strange that if you read it as fiction, you would question the plausibility.	2004-04-26
US	52438156	R35Y5NK0R2LOHI	0886775752	366912905	Turning Point	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A solid series kickoff	This is the first book in a series, still incomplete, which now stretches to about 7 volumes.  \\"Turning Point\\" is a quick read, under 300 pages; the remaining installments are mostly considerably longer.<br />Carrie Hamilton is a resident of a colony world in its first stages which has recently been conquered by the alien Valtegans.  She is also a psychic with a powerful link to her twin sister; but the psi skills make her seem bizarre in the conservative farming community she lives in.<br />After her sister dies, she forms a new link.  She soon discovers that her new connection is also a first contact with a non-human, Kusac, a trained psychic of the feline Sholan species, which also has had colonies overrun by the Valtegans.  <br />The resulting story is filled with familiar elements: dangerous treks, mutually suspicious allies, and a dramatic mission into the planet's main Valtegan base.  The story does explore a theme which is relatively rare in written SF, the problems of interspecies sexuality.<br />The greatest weakness of the book is the villains, undeveloped and uninteresting.  The Valtegans are mysterious nasties about which we learn almost nothing; presumably this is remedied in the sequels.  The other villain, a xenophobic Sholan, is equally bland and not especially formidable.<br />THe weaknesses are significant, but the main test of a series starter like this is whether it draws me in enough to be interested in the subsequent volumes.  I do want to read more about Carrie and the Sholans, so the book gets a good, if not exceptional, rating.	2004-04-26
US	52438156	R35MDIY9QIIK90	0312969228	128650106	The Concubine's Tattoo (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An intriguing historical mystery	This is the fourth book in the Sano Ichiro series, and probably the best of the three that I've read.  Ichiro is ordered by the Shogun to investigate the death of his favorite concubine, and it soon becomes clear that the death is a result of poison.  As always in this series, Ichiro is playing a delicate game trapped between the weak and stupid Shogun and his powerful enemy Chamberlain Yanigasawi.  Yanigasawi is the Shogun's lover and favorite, but, since the Shogun trusts Ichiro, can only act against Ichiro in ways the Shogun doesn't notice.  Since the Shogun is less than observant, that still leaves him with quite a few options.<br />The book stands well on its own; I think it woud be unnecessary to read the earlier installments of the series before reading this one.<br />This book adds the character of Ichiro's wife, Reiko, who is eager to take her own role in Ichiro's investigations.  The presence of Reiko adds interesting complications and allows the Ichiro character to develop further, but from my own limited knowledge of the period, I doubt that either her independence, her Nancy Drew spunkishness, or Ichiro's relatively easy acceptance of it are at all realistic.<br />The plot involves a good deal of sex, some of it kinky, as other readers have observed.  I found it all appropriate - there is no explicit content just thrown in for its own sake without furthering the story - but it may be too much for some readers.<br />The mystery is done well, with several vivid characters introduced as suspects, and Ichiro facing a dangerous dilemma when the evidence seems to point to the Shogun's mother, who it would certainly be fatal to accuse.<br />Several readers have commented on the historical realism of the setting.  It is always risky to read historical novels and expect to get real history, and this series is no exception.  At one point in this book, the Shogun is portrayed reading the classic chinese novel, \\"The Dream of Red Mansions\\".  That book in fact wasn'twritten until over half a century after this story takes place.  I suspect that Rowland intended an earlier classic novel of chinese decadence and erotica, the Ch'in P'ing Mei.  If a person like myself, with no special knowledge of the period in question, can spot a careless blunder like that, how many inaccuracies would a real expert catch?  Probably quite a few - for instance, one reviewer of this series has stated that the teahouses which play a prominent role in this and other installments, while very popular in later Japan, wouldn't have existed at the time this story is set in.	2004-04-25
US	52438156	R1A766QRA56YB4	0671578642	65617579	The Honor of the Queen (Honor Harrington #2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Further adventures of Honor Harrington	Thus is the 2nd volume of the lengthy Honor Harrington sage, now up to 10 volumes and still far from complete.  Honor is a Captain (later Admiral) in the space Navy of the Star Kingdom of Manticore, which is under attack by the larger Republic of Haven.  The series is based to a large extent on the popular Horatio Hornblower novels, and the background history accordingly based on the Napoleonic wars.<br />This installation finds Honor sent to protect Grayson, a relatively weak world allied to Manticore.  Grayson was founded by religious reactionaries; its traditional enemy Masada by even more extreme conservatives of the same sect.  So it's a society where women are expected to be subservient.  There is also little tradition of technological innovation, so the Grayson fleet is backwards and of limited value when Haven sends a fleet of modern ships to ally with Masada.  But Honor is assigned to hold the situation in check with, as usual, a grossly inadequate force.  The story builds to a concusion where Honor will be forced to fight a battle against a hugely superior enemy, something of a stock plot for the Harrington series, especially the early entrants.  The subplots focus on Grayson domestic politics and a conspiracy to assassinate the Protector, the Grayson head of state.<br />Both the strengths and weaknesses of the book are those of the series.  Honor is an attractive character and the Grayson society is interesting.  The story is suspenseful and exciting, making for a good read.  On the negative side, Weber has worked out in detail all the technical aspects of the ships and weaponry he is describing, and he doesn't let any of that work go to waste.  I once heard an experienced SF editor advise would-be writers to work out the background for their stories in detail and then not directly use most of it.  The fact that you have thought it out will give it a realistic feel, while you avoid boring the reader with excessive exposition.  Good advice, which Weber fails to use.  He goes into ship sizes, throw weights, and relative velocities with such loving detail that some passages read almost like a parody of the excesses of hard SF.<br />The political preaching in this novel is also unnecessary.  In Weber's universe, welfare is almost literally the root of all evil.  The generous welfare system of Haven is portrayed as having wrecked the economy; the military aggressiveness is seen as a direct result of the weak economy, forcing Haven to conquer more productive worlds in order to generate the wealth needed to keep up the dole payemnts for the Haven core worlds.  This is explained in almost identical expository sermons in each of the first several Honor Harrington novels.  The identical fervor of the same speech repeating in several volumes left Weber at monemts in danger of turning into the John Norman of the hard SF fraternity.  Fortunately, Weber ultimately avoided that temptation and no longer gives the same set sppech in each novel.  And, of course, he can write better than the execrably leaden prose of Norman.<br />The flaws give the book some moments of awkwardness, but Weber is smart enough to get back to the story before things get too boring.  So I can give this book a solid recommendation in spite of the faults.  It can be read without having read the prior volume, &quot;On Basilisk Station&quot;.	2004-04-24
US	52438156	RBTRPKHDTETVB	0886775469	332171004	An Earthly Crown (The Jaran, Book 2; The Sword of Heaven, Book 1)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Continuing the Jaran story	This book is rather different in style from the first of the four Jaran novels, but I can't really agree with the reviewers who said it was weaker.<br />The basic setting for the series is that humans are a subject race in a domineering, but relatively benign, empire under the highly hierarchic alien Chapalii.  Charles Soerenson, the only human to hold a high position in the Chapalii empire, is secretly using his position to prepare a revolt against the Chapalii.  Meanwhile, his sister and heir, Tess, becomes stranded on the planet Rhui, populated by technologically backwards humans who Soerenson has ordered, with the consent of the Chapalii, are not to be aware of the existence of other populated worlds and advanced technology.  While there, she falls in love with a Genghis Khan like figure, Bakhtiian, who has united the nomadic and matriarchal Jaran under his leadership and is preparing a campaign of conquest against the settled peoples of Rhui.  The Jaran seem to be based roughly on the Russian/Mongolian cultures of the Russian steppes, and Jaran names are recognizably Russian.<br />In this novel, second in the series a few years ater the end of \\"Jaran\\", Charles Soerenson is visiting the Jaran along with some of his aides and a troupe of Earth actors, with the goals of exploring the Chapalii monument that Tess discovered in the prequel and persuading Tess to return with him.  A final goal is gradually furthering the evolution of Jaran and Rhuian culture, with the expectation that they will eventually recontact galactic society.  The visit takes place against the backdrop of Bakhtiaan's continuing campaign of conquest.<br />The actors, unmentioned by the other reviewers here, are central to the story, because their objective of using the language-based art of Shakespeare and classic theater to communicate across linguistic and cultural barriers reflects the novel's theme of how different cultures, and people from them, understand and misunderstand each other.  This is also developed in a romance between an actress in the troupe and a Jaran warrior that progresses in spite of their lack of a common language, and a sometimes comic subplot of an arrogant young nobleman sent as a diplomat to the Jaran from a deeply patriarchal feudal kingdom, who is so shaped by his own culture that he is incapable of even understanding how little he understands the Jaran.  <br />A related theme that is developed by suggestion in both this book and the prequel, perhaps for a more direct exploration before the series concludes, is the similarity between Charles's rule over Rhui and the Chapalii rule over Earth and mankind that Charles is in rebellion against.<br />The story generally involves far less action, and a bit less sex, than the first installation.  It does feature a plot of repressed homosexual attraction that reaches an unpersuasive climax, so to speak, in a threesome.  But in general, Elliott is elaborating the ideas and characters of the first volume and preparing for crises to come in future installations.  The resultant novel some will find boring, but I thought that the characters were interesting enough to maintain an installment that is a bit thin on action.<br />One problem I did have is that there are really too many minor characters and substories going here, particularly among the Jaran.  This book may have more Russian names in it than \\"War and Peace\\", which makes it hard to follow some elements of the story.	2004-04-22
US	52438156	R2XXOS8DQJ1IM0	067165604X	816543640	Ethan of Athos	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Who needs Miles?	This volume is generally one of the less popular among Bujold fans, probably due to the absence of Bujold's most celebrated character, Miles Vorkosigan.  But it's a solid story with pleasures of its own.<br />Ethan comes from Athos, a planet founded by misogynists who took their loathing of women so seriously that they founded a planet populated only by men.  Uterine replicator have been used for reproduction, but now they are failing and there is a need to import fresh genetic material, so Ethan is sent to Klein Station to pick up new materials.<br />On Klein Station, Ethan encounters betrayal and conspiracies from galactic powers that isolated Athosians have little understanding of.  His only ally is Elli Quinn of the Free Dendarii mercenaries.<br />Wild adventures ensue, with the usual amount of double-crosses, mysteries, and sudden plot twists, all of which are handled well and are a sufficient reason to read the book.  But the greatest pleasure in this story for me is the Bulold's world-building.  She has really thought about Athos and about Klein Station, and she creates them as plausible places, showing what they are like.  And, as another reviewer has properly pointed out, she shows the uniqueness of these societies not with long chunks of exposition that break up the story, or characters who deliver implausible lectures on the differences between their societies and 20th Century Earth, but by allowing you to see events from the perspective of people from those societies.<br />This isn't Bujold's best.  But it's an illustration that Bujold, even a bit off form, is still better than most and a very rewarding writer.<br />Because this book doesn't include Miles Vorkosigan and his complicated personal issues, it will be an easier read than most Bujold books for somebody unfamiliar with the series.	2004-04-20
US	52438156	R1AIN2SOA71PC8	0814706711	519306784	Heavenly Serbia: From Myth to Genocide	Books	4	10	26	N	N	A valuable account of the background of the Yugoslav wars	This is a book about the history of Serbian nationalism and xenophobia.  The author gives a quite brief treatment of early Serbian history then goes into, as all such accounts seem to, the famous 1389 Battle of Kosovo.  But he gives more detail than similar accounts, discussing the medieval sagas of the battle in detail and showing how the legend that was built around it was modeled on legends relating to the temptation and crucifixion of Christ.  He also takes pains to refute another Serbian myth, that the Serbs, while losing their own independence, saved Europe from the Ottomans.  In fact, as he demonstrates, the weakened Serb state after 1389 was a Turkish ally and helped the Ottomans move into Europe.<br />There is much more, discussing the more recent history of Serbia, the role of the Serbian Orthodox church, and the rise of modern Serbian nationalism as the Ottoman Empire collapsed. We find extensive discussion of such figures as Petar Njegos, the 19th Century Montenegrin patriarch whose epic &quot;The Mountain Wreath&quot; was one of the first landmarks of modern Serbian literature, and  Bishop Velimirovic, a notoriously anti-Semitic theologian of the 20th Century, who, shortly after this book was published, was named a Saint by the Serbian church.  Disinctions within the Serbian community, between Serbia proper, Montenegro, and Vojvodina, as well as tensions between rural and urban Serbs, are also discussed with historical context.<br />This book is written with a plain pro-Croatian and anti-Serbian bias, and the reader should be aware of that and properly cautious about many of the conclusions.  Still, it has the virtue of packing a great deal of material into a package that is rather brief (not much over 200 pages) and easily accessible.  The useful material on many subjects that aren't easily available in  such accessible English language sources earns this book a high rating, in spite of the clear biases.	2004-04-18
US	52438156	RXUSZGIJUO2UM	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Genuine Epic	Hyperion is the story, set about 700 years in the future, of a pilgrimage to a world called Hyperion and a mysterious creature known as the Shrike.  The Shrike is a mysterious entity, the center of an apocalyptic cult, of great power and danger, but entirely unkown nature and objectives.  It is linked to a group of equally mysterious structures on Hyperion, the Time Tombs, which appear to be moving backwards, rather than forwards through time.  The events take place against a backdrop of a developing galactic war between the two subcultures of the human race that have evolved over centuries since the destruction of Earth.<br />As the pilgrims travel to Hyperion, each tells their story and recounts how their life has been touched, in some way, by Hyperion, the Shrike, or the Tombs.  The tales, the first one told by a poet, are an obvious nod to Chaucer.  There are many other allusions as well, particularly to the great romantic poet John Keats, who is a character in this book and actually the main character in 'The Fall of Hyperion'.  (Keats wrote two long works, Hyperion and Endymion, each focussing on the mythical war in which Zeus overcame Cronos and rose to the top of the divine heirarchy.)<br />Each of the individual tales, on its own, is effective.  Each also has a different style - the poet, Martin Selenus, uses an overblown heroic style to tell his story, the detective speaks in the voice of a noir crime novel, etc.  Together the tales form a complex web in which, the more we learn, the more questions we have.<br />This is the first novel in a series of four, and readers shoud be aware that it doesn't really stand on its own.  This book and &quot;The Fall of Hyperion&quot; form a complete story, as do &quot;Endymion&quot; and &quot;The Rise of Endymion&quot;, set about 250 years later.  But none of the four can really be read alone.  The four together form a work closing in on 3,000 pages, but are in this case the scope of the story well matches that great length.  This is one of the best SF series ever written, quite possibly the very best.	2004-04-12
US	52438156	R1SWP2AL3T5H2U	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	4	28	33	N	N	A passionate and solid rebuttal to the right	Conason has written a vigorous and argumentative response to right wing attacks on liberalism.  The book is divided into 10 chapters, each of which refutes in detail a continually repeated right wing distortion, one chapter each dedicated to topics such as media liberalism, sexual hypocrisy, fiscal irresponsibility, crony capitalism, and terrorism.<br />The book is admittedly a bit shrill and nobody would mistake it for a balanced account, but it is a solid piece of advocacy writing, well documented and factually scrupulous.  For those who have been paying close attention, reading blogs and other non-mainstream media highly critical of the Bush cabal, most of this will be familiar.  But even if you are very informed, you're sure to find some things in this book that you didn't already know.  For instance, I was aware of the sweetheart deal that Bush was given by Arlington to build a stadium for the Texas Rangers at public expense that the team was then given virtually free use of.  But there was plenty of information on the deal in this book that I hadn't known, including the interesting fact that the mayor who made the deal was himself involved in a failed Savings & Loan, and was allowed to settle his liabilities on very easy terms after giving away public property to Dubya.<br />The book would be valuable if it did nothing more than connect all of this generally scattered information in one place.  Tying the narrative together with the theme of how right wing propaganda, constantly repeated, distorts reality, makes it more than a mere collection of outrages.<br />Unfortunately, the people likely to read this book are the ones who least need it.  The average person continuies to be ignorant of most of this material, and the fanatical right, as demonstrated by several reviews on this site, are immune to logic and information.	2004-04-10
US	52438156	R114MYP9XGOVKP	0671697994	457373406	Brothers in Arms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bujold at full throttle	What a terrific book this is.  I just finished rereading it, after a gap of several years.  I've developed a taste for the more slow-paced novels Bujold writes these days, and they are enjoyable, but these early Miles adventures are something really special.<br />In this story, Miles  and the Free Dendarii mercenaries reach Earth on the run from Cetagandans bent on getting revenge for the mass prison break Miles engineered in Borders of Infinity.  Miles is assigned to a junior position in the Barrayaran Embassy on Earth, where he finds himself making frequent quick changes between his two personnae of Lord Vorkosigan and Admiral Naismith.  His intended vacation on Earth quickly turns into chaos, racing against enemies who are plotting against both Naismith and Vorkosigan.<br />The action has a wild pace, fueled by numerous plot twists.  The complaint of one reviewer that the story relies on some implausible coincidences is justified, but I don't think most readers will be very troubled.  What puts Bujold above almost all other writers of SF adventure is that her stories are grounded in strongly realized characters.  The plots are planned out very carefully - in rereading this novel, I spotted numerous points where Bujold is foreshadowing not only events a few chapters later, but also events in the sequels.  The result is a completely enjoyable read that is also substantive.	2004-04-07
US	52438156	R153VEWG4PCK8R	0553573985	626236404	Gibbon's Decline and Fall	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Flawed but interesting story	Tepper is writing here on some of her favorite themes - feminism, epochal and strange transformations, and repressive patriarchal religions.  This time, however, the story isn't set in the distant future or on an imagined world, but in New Mexico in the very near future - so near it is now the past.  (The book was written in 1996 and set in 2000.)<br />The novel centers on a group of women, close friends since they met in college 40 years earlier, who are receiving what seems to be messages or warnings from one of their number who disappeared a few years earlier and is thought to be dead.  One of them is an attorney, Caroline Crespin, happily married to a retired FBI agent who is a very rare type in this story, a decent male.  She is defending a woman accused of infanticide against a vile District Attorney, Jake Jagger, who works for an even more vile far right conspiracy, the Alliance.<br />As the apocalypse grows near, Caroline and her friends discover the real truth behind the Alliance and look for a way to stop its plans for world domination and enslavement of women.<br />This isn't Tepper at her best - Grass is probably her best work.  The immediate setting and the exaggerated evil of the villains makes the story more dogmatic and preachy than provocative.  The ending is unpersuasive and ducks crucial issues.  But the main characters are done well and most of the main story is exciting and compelling.	2004-02-19
US	52438156	R1LY7JWVEXDZQM	1580624316	11984513	Eisenhower	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Readable and interesting	This biography, written with an obvious affection for its subject, focuses largely on Ike's activities in WWII and immediately after.  I would have liked a little more about his early life - Perret uses only about 1/5th of the book to get to Ike as a senior officer preparing for US entry into the war in 1940.  That was, after all, the first 50 years of his life.  By moving through them so quickly, I don't think that Perret gives as much insight as he could into the man.<br />The war years and just after are covered well.  Perret gives sketches of the other major figures Ike dealt with.  MacArthur is portayed as an egomaniac and comes off rather badly; Patton and Marshall are seen more positively.  Perret is rough on Ike's alleged lover, Kay Summers, who he concludes lied, but he's roughest of all on Bernard Montgomery, who is presented as insubordinate, afraid to commit troops to battle, and incompetent to use them properly when he does.  I don't recall anything positive that Perret has to say about Monty.<br />The post-war years are interesting, but I was not really satisfied with the coverage of the Presidential years.  The story hits the main points - Little Rock, the Sherman Adams scandal, the Checkers speech, Sputnik, the U2 incident, but doesn't give enough of an insider perspective to give any new insight on most of them.  One thing that is covered fairly thoroughly, and the only real surprise I got from this section, is finding out how weak Ike was in standing up to McCarthyism, even when McCarthy and his supporters went after Ike's old friend George Marshall.<br />In summary, this is hardly a great biography, but it is easy to read despite the considearable size, and has enough value that you'll get a good return for the time spent reading it.	2003-08-05
US	52438156	R1MZO8MFPX9MNO	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Excellent and readable memoirs	Grant here gives a consistently interesting account of his role in many of the major campaigns of the Civil War.  His prose is clear and his accounts of battles and strategies quite readable, even to those without particular expertise in military history.  He sticks to the story, making few attempts to even scores with his numerous critics in the Army or the press.  <br />One thing that should be noted is that these 'personal memoirs' are in many ways remarkably impersonal.  There is only a quite brief account of Grant's youth, and his wife, to whom he was apparently quite devoted, is barely mentioned.  Grant tells the story of his career as an officer with increasing levels of responsibility, but says little about himself.  Also, the memoirs end with the assassination of Lincoln, and do not at all discuss his presidency.  <br />The edition I read was lacking in maps, which was a serious drawback, however it was a different edition than the one discussed here.  Because so much of the book focuses on the tactics of specific campaigns, a good set of maps is a very valuable addition, and would be advisable to check for in any edition you consider reading or buying.	2003-07-14
US	52438156	R3NNJN0UDFGIAA	1891620959	214492850	The Body and the Blood: The Holy Land at the Turn of a New Millennium: A Reporter's Journey	Books	4	23	35	N	N	Useful and informative, but biased	This book focuses on discussions the author had with Arab Crhistian in Israel and the Occupied Territories in 1999 - 2000, with side trips to examine the status of Christians in Egypt, Jordan, and Lebanon, as well as recent Russian immigrants to Israel who are of Jewish ethnic background but are Russian Orthodox in religion.  The author's picture of a community that is too often ignored in discussions of the conflict as a Jewish/Islamic battle is therefore a valuable contribution.  Highlights include important narratives which are rarely encountered in writings about the Middle East, such as the chapter discussing the oppression of the Coptic minority in Egypt and the very interesting account of an attempt to organize non-violent resistance to Israeli occupation in the Palestinian town of Beit Shapour, almost the only instance of non-violent rebellion in Palestinian history.<br />The book is somewhat weakened by the author's manifest lack of sympathy for the other embattled minority he is necessarily writing about, the Israelis.  Sennott's historical discussions and statistics demonstrate that there has always been a significant Christian presence in this region that is now in danger of dying out, primarily through emigration.  He regularly implies that the creation of Israel is the primary factor which has led to the mass emigration and near disappearance of ancient indigenous churches.  But this claim is unconvincing even viewing his own accounts, such as the worsening condition and growing emigration of Egyptian Christians, a development not directly affected by Israel.  This suggests an alternative explanation of the ruin of the Christian communities Sennott describes,  a growing intolerance for religious/ethnic minorities in general in the Arab world in an era of increased Arab/Muslim nationalism and xenophobia.  This hypothesis seems far more convincing than Sennott's if one includes such facts as the forced expulsion of Jews throughout the Arab world, the abuse of Kurds in Syria and Iraq, the troubles of the Berbers in North Africa, etc.  But these points are outside Sennott's topic and not analyzed or even mentioned.<br />Sennott's dislike for Israel shows in his choice of words.  To give one example, he casually says that the Arabs of Nazareth have been 'disenfranchised' by Israel.  He doesn't explain what he means by that, which is probably just as well.  In fact, since Nazareth is inside Israel, the local population has been able, since Israel was created, to vote for freely elected governments at both the local and national level, a right which of course they never had before becoming 'disenfranchised' Israeli Arabs.<br />The book is necessarily out of date due to the rapid developments in the region.  However, the last chapters do give an account of the early months of the present Intifada, and give interesting details not usually present in news accounts.  Sennott describes how the emphatically Islamic character of this Intifada contrasts with the nationalist thrust of the previous conflict, thereby excluding Palestinian Christians - and the fact that some Imams have described the current battle as an 'Intifada against Christians and Jews', making the exclusion of Palestinian Christians entirely explicit and direct.  Quite striking is the account of how gunmen linked to the PA deliberately use unwilling Christian neighborhoods and houses to fire on Israeli positions, inevitably drawing return fire that devastates the target communities.	2002-04-17
US	52438156	R23O3WAOKMNRR	0671578278	784554812	A Civil Campaign: A Comedy of Biology and Manners	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Same Miles, different style	The latest entry in the Vorkosigan Saga is a return to form for Bujold, after some recent entries that I felt were not quite up to her standard, and a continuation of the evolution of the series from its space opera origins.<br />The early volumes of the Miles Vorkosigan series emphasized action with lots of space battles and narrow escapes.  In the more recent volumes, Miles has been forced by politics and injuries to end his career as a mercenary admiral and return to his homeworld of Barrayar.  The most recent books, &quot;Memory&quot; and &quot;Komarr&quot;, were essentially detective stories with Miles unraveling plots against the Barrayar Imperium.  Although Bujold's first attempt at combining the SF and Mystery genres, the novella 'In the Mountains of Mourning' from &quot;Borders of Infinity&quot; is the finest blend of the two styles I've ever read, better than Asimov's Robot mysteries, these books never quite took off.<br />In &quot;A Civil Campaign&quot;, Bujold adopts yet another genre and writes a 'comedy of manners and biology' with a dedication to 'Jane [Austen], Charlotte [Bronte], Georgette [Heyer] and Dorothy [Sayers?]'.  The result is a brilliant success, in many ways the best book in this superior series.  For all her gifts and all her skill in describing high society dinner parties, Jane Austen regrettably never stopped to consider the possible ways they could be thrown into chaos by sex-change operations or genetic engineering run amok.  Bujold does, and the disastrous party in the center of this novel is, all by itself, worth the price of admission.<br />The action that dominated earlier installments and slowed down in recent ones is altogether gone in &quot;A Civil Campaign&quot;.  There is one ambush, where Miles is not present, and a 'battle' fought with tubs of bugbutter, a gooey product of genetically redesigned bugs off which Miles's clone brother Mark hopes to make his fortune.  <br />The slower pace and greater length of this book allowfor further development of the characters.  Miles is developed, of course, but his longtime sidekick, Ivan Vorpatril, also is very visible, and for the first time playing an independent part.  Cordelia is back, more prominent than she has been for some time, and the Koudelka daughters make their first appearances as prominent adult characters, with various adult romantic entanglements.  Comic situations often appeared in earlier installments, but usually as bits of relief thrown in between the action sequences.  Here the comic situations are also more fully developed than in earlier volumes, producing the funniest Vorkosigan novel to date. <br />This book is heavily dependent on the complex back story created in earlier volumes and would probably be frustrating for a reader not familiar with the series.	2001-01-25
US	52438156	R3HXQ1NGD96Q38	0880016566	987495760	A Floating Life: The Adventures of Li Po: A Historical Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable, but not really memorable	Elegant stays fairly close to the historical facts, such facts as can be distinguished from the many legends, in telling the life of the great poet and Taoist Li Po. Li tells the story in this novel to a young boy, Wang Lung. The story is fun, and is the same sort of mixture of truth and myth that Li himself probably would have used had he really written an autobiography. There are numerous intriguing and believable details about the daily lives of people at various social levels, from the Imperial Court to poverty, in T'ang China.<br />The main weakenss in the book for me was that only Li Po really emerges as a character. The others who show up, either in the story of Li recounting his life while going into exile or in the story of Li's life, are poorly developed. Elegant works several poems by Li into the text, but I would have liked to see more.  <br />It is worth noting that I have seen several translations of many of the poems here.  I can't comment on the accuracy of Elegant's versions, but they are generally delightful, more enjoyable than other translations into English of the same poem.<br />I recommend it on the whole, for the charm of the story and of the poems translated in it, but I can't do so with great enthusiasm. A better novel with some similar material is 'Bridge of Birds' by Hughart.	2000-11-30
US	52438156	RLKLJ3NALDZ5N	0385425473	378897199	Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A  masterpiece of family and social history	I read this book shortly after it came out, almost 10 years ago.  In that time the details of the story have faded from my memory, but many of Jung Chang's extraordinary scenes are indelible:  the shocking description of  the foot-binding her grandmother and countless others were all but crippled  by, her mother forced to walk beside her father's car (to let his wife  share his privilege of riding in a car would have been considered  'nepotism', and forbidden by Communist Party discipline), the village where  Chang herself was sent in the Cultural Revolution.<br />This is vastly the  best of the several books I've read on the Cultural Revolution, but it is  also far more than that.  It's one of the most powerful and finest books  I've ever read.  Chang brings the people whose stories she tells to life.   She describes scenes and chooses details superbly, and by doing so makes  the history of her own family also a history of the revolutions and  disasters of an entire culture.	2000-07-17
US	52438156	RMGID3BQY1III	0671697986	824659762	Oath of Gold (The Deed of Paksenarrion, Book 3)	Books	2	10	16	N	N	A weak finale for a trilogy that started well.	I found this book not up to the level of the earlier volumes.  The heroine, Paksenarrion, is on a quest to discover the true heir to a kingdom that is in danger of collapsing into civil war if she fails.  One problem is that the reader knows a long time before the heroine whom Paksenarrion  is really looking for.  Since she has the same information but fails to  make the easy connections, you're just left wondering why the main  character is such a doofus.  There is a subplot, involving a former comrade  who is jealous of Paksenarrion's growing status and fame, that suffers from  exactly the same fault.<br />The other complaint I have is that the book seems  to be aimed at a different segment than the earlier volumes.  The first  volume in this series, Sheepfarmer's Daughter, is a really terrific coming  of age story that seems to be aimed pretty much at the teen reader.  This  book is dominated by a brutal rape scene that I think makes it definitely  inappropriate for younger readers.  And the scene itself is gratuitously  lengthy, violent, and graphic for my tastes.  Moon obviously felt she  needed this incident for her story, but she could have still made the point  without leaving such a sour taste.	2000-05-09
US	52438156	R2SL3R2OEQNPYW	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Pulp-style science fiction adventure	Hubbard wrote this book after 30 years of writing on Scientology and being out of Science Fiction.  (I'm aware that the two are not entirely unrelated.)  He says in the foreward that it is 'not in the old tradition', but that is false.  The book is in the style of very old pulp SF, which is  both its strength and its weakness.<br />It sets out to be a light adventure  story with loads of action, and in these terms it succeeds pretty well.   The problem is that the 'Golden Age' of SF that inspires this book was,  well, not all that golden.  The work of that period had lots of faults and  this book shows them all.<br />The psychology of the characters is  non-existent.  They are either good or evil, with little further  delineation and no particular explanation.  The characters that count are  all males; the heroine gets captured by the villain and rescued by the  hero, and beyond that has no real function in the plot.  The ideas are thin  and take a back seat to the action.  The prose is functional but far from  stylish.  The hero is both impossibly virtuous and impossibly resourceful,  easily performing feats such as mastering advanced mathematics and physics  in spite of being raised in a society that had lost all literacy or  technology and was only a few steps above the stone age.<br />With all these  flaws, the book is fun.  There's no real suspense, since a story like this  can only end with Good triumphing completely over Evil, but there is a lot  of action and the plot takes quite a few unexpected twists and turns.  The  book is too long for a pure adventure of this type, but there are only a  few spots where the action really slows.<br />The best comparison is very  early SF adventures such as the Martian novels of Edgar Rice Burroughs or  the Lensman series of E. E. Smith.  If you enjoyed these, you'll probably  enjoy Battlefield Earth - it's in the same style and, on the whole, rather  better.  If you expect SF to have the literary sensibility, prose quality,  and psychological insight of more modern writers like Card, Gene Wolfe,  Gibson, Brin, etc, you're almost guaranteed to loathe this one.	2000-05-09
US	52438156	R20RSHGD70KCK7	0911842322	196203930	Past Life Therapy in Action	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Definitely a disappointment	The book goes into little detail about the practice, theory, or results of past life therapy.  The 28 'case histories' promised are nothing of the sort - just dialogues from the various seminars Sutphen has given.<br />The most irritating part is that some portions of the book really are  intriguing - just enough to make you suspect that Sutphen really could  write an exciting and valuable book on the subject.  He's written many  others I've never read, so perhaps he has.  It isn't this one.	2000-03-20
US	52438156	RG1VSTQZH0QI6	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very highly recommended	This is a delightful book.  The characters and story are strong, the oriental setting is refreshing and nicely created, and it is the funniest book I've read since &quot;Confederacy of Dunces&quot;.  The middle section  I think is not quite as good as the wonderful beginning and ending  sections.  The only major complaint I have is that the idiot publishers  seem to have let the sequels go out of print.	1999-07-23
