US	52442326	RTFMJCH1HPIAU	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Lincoln the man, not the myth	David Herbert Donald accomplishes with this biography the difficult goal of presenting Lincoln as a character at once thoroughly ordinary and exceptional. Although millions of words have been written about his subject, Lincoln remains shrouded in myth for many of us, but a reading of this fine biography parts those mists and reveals that the sixteenth president is not difficult to understand or relate to, onerous as his burdens may have been to bear. <br /> <br />Donald's prose is as plain-spoken as the words favored by Lincoln, but that is not to say that it is ordinary. On the contrary: Donald's mastery of his subject allows him to write with exceptional clarity and admirable dispassion. <br /> <br />While it is clear that on balance Donald greatly admires Lincoln, he never glorifies him. He is critical, for example, of Lincoln the Whig's occasional taste for demagogery in his partisan attacks on the rival Democratic Party early in his political career. In analyzing Lincoln's writings and speeches, he doesn't shy away from pointing out flaws and speciousness in their reasoning. <br /> <br />The book is also valuable for its ability to present landmarks in Lincoln's career in a clearer light. The best example of this is the recounting of the famous series of debates in pursuit of a Senate seat between Lincoln and his primary rival of the time, Stephen Douglas. History, particularly as it is taught in high school, often presents these debates as lofty philosophical interchanges between the two on slavery, individual rights and the nature of liberty. Donald's careful analysis of each of the seven debates shows that while they contained moments of high drama and keen insight, they were all dragged down by petty attacks -- on both sides -- repetitive arguments and occasional poorly prepared remarks. <br /> <br />Similarly, Donald points out a fact that is often forgotten: while Lincoln deplored slavery on moral grounds, he never believed that African-Americans were theequal of whites on any level. In fact, the author is quite critical of Lincoln's stubborn adherence to the idea that blacks could be relocated to Africa -- one that he held on to far longer than it merited, if indeed it ever did. <br /> <br />The most intriguing and insightful portions of the book center on Lincoln's presidency, for which he was wholly unprepared, by his own admission. While many of us are aware in a general sense that Lincoln was under great pressure during his first term as a wartime president, Donald dramatizes the difficulties in great detail, bringing to life the nearly unbearable weight that Lincoln bore in trying to juggle the demands of a highly disputatious cabinet, a stubbornly unresponsive military leadership, and a Republican Party that was in many cases more hostile to him than were the Democrats.  <br /> <br />Lincoln's final success in bringing the war to a successful conclusion -- albeit at staggering human and financial cost -- is all the more satisfying and poignant for Donald's attention to the four years of disappointments. With the description of his death and the knowledge of the unfinished business that awaited his second term in rebuilding the nation, one is left to ponder more than ever what might have been had he not been assassinated. <br /> <br />As a finely drawn portrait reveals something of its subject's inner life, \\"Lincoln,\\" through its meticulous attention to detail, gives the reader a greater understanding of the man than any mere collection of facts could ever provide. Highly recommended.	2005-04-06
US	52442326	R3MQT3DSE4S4YX	0679729453	933385853	The Path to Power (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Unsurpassed	Robert Caro had already produced a masterpiece prior to the release of this book, \\"The Power Broker,\\" a tour-de-force of research coupled with exceptional writing and a remarkable grasp of the sweep of events that formed the background for his subject. With \\"Path to Power,\\" the first book of what was to become a trilogy on the life of Lyndon Johnson, he at least equaled the achievement of his first work. <br /> <br />What is most noteworthy about the book, aside from the level of research and scholarship -- which is again absolutely first-rate -- is Caro's ability to bring the world Lyndon Johnson was born into and was shaped by so vividly to life. This is an expansive book, one that asks the reader to enter with Caro into the world. He's not interested in painting with broad strokes; he wants the reader to see the world of the Texas Hill Country and the Washington D.C. of the New Deal era. <br /> <br />His opening chapters, in fact, deal with the harsh and forbidding country of east-central Texas, the Hill Country,\\" which lured settlers in with its apparent promise of lush range and farming land, but which, due to the nature of the environment, proved a \\"trap,\\" as Caro puts it, one which condemned many, including Johnson's family, to poverty. <br /> <br />Difficult as Johnson' early life and manhood may have been, lionizing his subject is hardly an interest of Caro's. In fact, another achievement of the book is that he paints so convincingly the portrait of an arrogant, amoral and often cowardly man, yet is able to gain enough distance to objectively appraise Johnson's undeniable political genius and the incredible capacity for work that served that genius. <br /> <br />As an examination of the politics of power, the book is endlessly fascinating, and along the way, the reader will become intimately acquainted with the likes of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jack Garner (who was to become simultaneously FDR's vice president and mortal enemy), and Sam Rayburn. Caro devotes a beautifully written chapter entirely to Rayburn, and allows the reader to see the father-son relationship that he developed with Johnson -- one that the latter was not shy about exploiting. <br /> <br />The subjects that arise in the course of examining Johnson's life are endlessly fascinating, and too numerous to discuss in detail, but of particular interest -- and perhaps surprise -- to some readers will be Johnson's contributions to modernizing the collection of data about voters in service to campaign contributions. He essentially controlled the disbursement of funds to Democratic congressional candidates in the crucial 1940 election, and was able to parlay his success in that endeavor into political gain. <br /> <br />This is a book to be savored. The reader will find that its length is an asset, as Caro certainly never exhausts his subject or his reader.	2005-03-11
US	52442326	R2A1S4UKCSPZRS	0671551647	799521842	In a Dark Time	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Taut, highly effective	Watson may not be as celebrated as some other authors, but many of the more well-known could learn a lot from him in terms of economy of style and narrative control. Although &quot;In a Dark Time&quot; is, for me, just a notch beneath his superb efforts &quot;Montana 1948&quot; and &quot;Justice,&quot; it's still a very well-conceived and thought-provoking short novel.<br />In recent reviews, I've been critical of two writers whose work I have, in the past, admired: Richard Price (&quot;Samaritan&quot;) and Tim O'Brien (&quot;July July&quot;). In both cases, I found the authors' indulgence in digressions detracted from the narratives. Both, in my opinion, allowed their characters to tell stories to their hearts' content and as a result, the structure of both novels suffered.<br />&quot;In a Dark Time&quot;, in contrast, establishes its time, place, characters and conflict from the outset and Watson rarely, if ever, allows his novel to stray from the path he has determined for it. He controls the characters, not the other way around. His protagonist is a teacher at a small school where the latest in a series of as-yet unsolved murders has occurred. The structure of the narrative is built around a journal the protagonist keeps in which he -- in an increasingly obsessive manner -- ruminates about the deaths even as he details the daily events of his life.<br />As with many good writers, Watson takes seemingly mundane subject matter and makes it matter to us by developing in his narrator an original voice. His protagonist notices the small details of everyday life and reacts to them in ways we come to recognize are unique to him. Watson builds suspense as the novel wears on, not only because we wonder who committed the murders, but because we begin to wonder if the protagonist we trusted from the novel's first page may know more than he is letting on. Or, we wonder, perhaps he is simply caught in a net woven from his own imagination.<br />Perhaps Watson's most intriguing psychological angle involves his protagonist's complicated and ambivalent attitude toward the killer, whomever he or she may be. As the narrator's ambivalence grows, the tone of the his internal discussions becomes increasingly abstract and fragmented. Yet the reader (this one anyway) easily went along with the change because Watson carefully develops it during the course of the novel's events. It's a harder trick than it appears, and it's a tribute to Watson's skill that he turns it with a transparency of effort.<br />Aside from the narrator, Watson doesn't achieve anything special with his character development, and some may find the novel's conclusion doesn't compare with the author's effort to get his readers there. But the novel is still a fine piece of work by a writer who deserves more attention.	2004-07-19
US	52442326	R3535O5W7JHHS7	1566491053	825978698	Bright Moments: The Life and Legacy of Rahsaan Roland Kirk	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A start on documenting a remarkable life	Most of the remarks about this book are, to me, puzzling and seem to indicate that the readers don't know very much about the musical life of this great artist. <br />Musical biographies should do one thing: shed light on what in the artist's life led to his or her particular conception. Do I care who Rahsaan's parents were? What they did? What kind of food his sister liked? Not necessarily; only in connection to the work that he ultimately produced. We should also ask, of course, why we should care about the artist's contributions to music as a whole, and his or her effect on society at large. Kruth attempts to do both.<br />He chooses to treat his subject primarily from the vantage point of the musicians who influenced him and the people upon whom he had an influence. Not surprisingly, the opinions expressed are strong, and mostly favorable. Anyone who reads the book should have no doubt as to the force of Rahsaan's music and the forces of the mid to late '60s that helped produce it. Rahsaan emerged as a musical hero to many of us who came of age during that time when music seemed to be, as Coltrane said, &quot;a force for real good.&quot; How strange that sounds in 2004.<br />The latter, then, may be the greatest flaw of the book. Those, like me, who saw Rahsaan perform and who own most, if not all, of his recorded music, will understand the testimonials to the power of his art and the force of his personality. Those who haven't bothered to investigate his music in depth won't get it. Those who have not listened carefully to his work will not understand the success he had in melding the &quot;black classical music&quot; of jazz, as he called it, with pop influences. In that sense, Kruth may have failed, if his effort is to bring additional listeners to Rahsaan's music.<br />That said, for me, the book's most compelling messages come from Joel Dorn, the man who produced Rahsaan's greatest records, and who was, in turn, his greatest champion and critic. Dorn pointsout throughout the book that the justifiable anger Rahsaan held toward the commercialism that helps to control what we listen to was, in some ways, his greatest drawback. Even his closest friends found his deep resentment against mainstream society puzzling, especially, as Dorn points out, because Rahsaan himself was a middle class guy who believed--and succeeded in proving--that the most far-out sounds had strong roots in everyday music of the masses.<br />It is this last notion that Kruth brings out best in the book, and I value his contribution to jazz biographies because I recognize the voice of a kindred spirit. He hears what I hear in Rahsaan's music. My hope is that others, in reading the book, will find reason to listen.	2004-07-15
US	52442326	RBLWX3MJBSKE7	0803294271	403309510	Heaven Is a Playground	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Basketball Is Life	I've read a few really good books on basketball -- David Wolf's &quot;Foul,&quot; and John Feinstein's &quot;A Season on the Brink&quot; immediately come to mind -- but Rick Telander's &quot;Heaven Is a Playground&quot; is the best, for my money. This book captures not only the spirit of the game, but also vividly recreates a time (the mid-70s) and a place (Brooklyn).<br />Telander was in his 20s in 1974 when he went to Brooklyn to spend a summer, in part because he was in search of the elusive playground legend James &quot;Fly&quot; Williams, who figures prominently in the book. During the course of the three months he was there, however, he met, played with, interviewed and befriended a host of regulars at the courts in Foster Park in the Flatbush section of the borough. They were African-American boys and men for whom basketball was far more than recreation. For many of them, the game was a way of life and even more importantly a form of self-expression.<br />Besides Williams, Telander also met Albert King, then an astonishingly gifted 14-year-old, who was to go on to a successful NBA career. Telander brings to life the court skills of King and others, but he humanizes them, and this is where the great strength of the book lies. For example, King agonized over his talent, which brought him attention and adulation that embarrassed him and sometimes made him angry and withdrawn. Williams' incredible pure talent was married to an unpredictable and sometimes violent temperament that ultimately shortened his career. <br />Despite an obvious empathy for his subjects -- he wound up coaching a group of teenage park regulars, with mixed on-the-court success -- Telander does not romanticize them. Flatbush, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Brownsville, where the action of the book primarily takes place, were poverty-stricken, crime-ridden places. Many of the people Telander spent extensive time with were scarred by their environment, and he does not try to hide that. Though the bookis refreshingly free of a sense of &quot;white guilt,&quot; Telander does agonize at one point over a boy he left off his team who succumbed to drug use and was later killed.<br />At times funny, often poignant, and filled with a love for its subject, &quot;Heaven Is a Playground&quot; remains an engrossing, and still timely, read nearly 30 years after its publication.	2004-04-02
US	52442326	R302UOO44ASUFK	0316332739	598771339	Sweet Soul Music: Rhythm and Blues and the Southern Dream of Freedom	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Labor of Love	Like Robert Palmer's superb &quot;Deep Blues,&quot; Guralnick's extensive look back at the roots of R&amp;B and soul music combines criticism, biographical profiles and social history into one rich, printed tapestry. Meticulously researched, the book shows its author's deep love of the music without sacrificing objectivity.<br />Guralnick provides plenty of background on the &quot;race music&quot; that spawned R&amp;B and the great soul music of the sixties and early seventies, on which much of the book concentrates. Like most, if not all, of the great blues musicians, the early pioneers of soul came from humble, mostly southern beginnings, and made little or no money from their work, which was liberally sampled by white musicians.<br />A good portion of the narrative revolves around the fascinating rise and fall of Stax Records, the tiny Memphis-based label that brought together white executive leadership and musicians with raw black talent from the South. Despite initially primitive recording conditions, Stax developed into a powerhouse that was home to some of the greatest musicians in soul music, from Otis Redding to William Bell to Carla Thomas to Sam and Dave to Johnny Taylor. The label became representative of the growing sense of black pride that defined the era, one in which civil rights, of course, moved to the forefront of America's consciousness.<br />All of these musicians and many more, including Aretha Franklin, Wilson Pickett and James Brown, to name a few, are given finely drawn profiles by Guralnick, and he treats their contributions to American music with the respect that they deserve. Throughout, he is intent on letting the artists tell their stories in their own words, and remains content to use his own fine writing to direct and bind together the narrative.<br />Another great accomplishment of the book, for me, was Guralnick's successful effort to illuminate the ties between white and black musicians during this period. Yes, many of the most successful producers, notably Atlantic's Jerry Wexler, were white, but so were many of the musicians. Most had grown up in the south around blacks and were intimately familiar with African-American music. The Stax house band, which included Steve Cropper and Donald Dunn, was white, and they performed on many songs penned by great black songwriters such as David Porter and Isaac Hayes. Think of the great, ominous organ introduction to Aretha Franklin's &quot;I Ain't Never Loved a Man.&quot; The white player is Spooner Oldham. This musical cross-fertilization is a notable point, one not often brought into considerations of the era.<br />As a young kid coming up in the mid-60s, I loved the music that Guralnick writes about here, and I could tell -- even if he hadn't said so -- that he did too. He goes beyond that love to really dig into its roots and understand it, and succeeds admirably.	2004-04-02
US	52442326	R1UUCKDQWTSBPH	0803287321	355136192	Maybe I'll Pitch Forever	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Essential baseball reading	Not only a great baseball life but a great American life is revealed in &quot;Maybe I'll Pitch Forever,&quot; the story of Satchel Paige, one of baseball's greatest, but not best-known, pitchers.<br />Paige is often thought of today, like Yogi Berra, as a kind of primitive intelligence capable of spinning lines like &quot;Don't look back, something might be gaining on you.&quot; As with Yogi, Paige's wit has obscured the magnitude of his achievement as a player. He was, by the acclaim of nearly all who played with him and against him, one of the greatest pitchers of all time, although of course he had but a brief opportunity to show his skills in the Major Leagues.<br />In fact, the book brings out, not only in Paige's words (he wasn't shy about declaring the peerlessness of his abilities), but in those of many others, that he should have been the first black to break the MLB color barrier, not Jackie Robinson. Why he wasn't is not precisely clear, although his strong independent streak (he was never reluctant to break contracts if it meant more money for him) may have had something to do with it.<br />All in all, the book offers a vivid view of the nomadic life that Paige and other black players lived in service to their sport. Paige pitched nearly year round, often every day, which of course seems nearly inconceivable to the modern fan, who is grateful when his team's starting pitcher goes seven innings with five days' rest. Paige not only pitched frequently, he did so from the East Coast to the West Coast to Mexico to Cuba. And he did it until he was into his fifties!<br />David Lipman allows his subject's voice to shine through, a key strength of the book. Satchel's humor, expressed in his own words, helps the reader to understand his surprising lack of bitterness at being denied an opportunity to pitch in the Major Leagues when it is obvious that he would be thought of as one of the best to ever play had he been given the opportunity from a young age.<br />A fine book, essential to the library of any student of the game.	2004-02-20
US	52442326	R2EEB56YAAE0UY	0142003387	398568910	July, July	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Surprisingly weak effort	O'Brien wrote two books that I consider superior works of modern fiction: &quot;In the Lake of the Woods&quot; and &quot;The Things They Carried&quot; (which I rank with &quot;Paco's Story&quot; as one of the two best pieces of literature to emerge from the Vietnam War). Unfortunately, he fails to approach that level of writing with &quot;July July,&quot; a largely hackeneyed effort to resurrect the old high school reunion plot device.<br />The occasion for the work is a gathering of late '60s high school graduates, all of whom, of course, have failed to live up to the idealistic dreams of youth, etc., etc. We've been in this territory before, but the reader hopes that O'Brien's considerable writing skills will lift him above the book's mundance premise. Alas, it is not to be, and there are at least three reason for the failure.<br />First, as in a book I recently reviewed, Richard Price's &quot;Samaritan,&quot; too much of the novel relies on characters telling other characters what happened to them years before, rather than relating the actions as they occurred. Second, there is often insufficient motivation for characters to even relate these stories -- which, by the way, are often fantastic and strain credulity. For example, one character who has become a church minister relates to a former classmate she hasn't seen for 30+ years a strange story of a clandestine relationship with a man many years her senior and her attempt to break into his house to steal letters documenting the &quot;affair&quot; -- an effort which ended in her dismissal from the parish. We're left to wonder not only why she would reveal all of this, but what in the world would have driven this character to act in the way she did. Since we know very little about her as a younger woman, it's impossible to say.<br />O'Brien succeeds only when he returns to the ground on which he is most confident: the soil of wartime Vietnam. In the book's most affecting section, he details the life-changing injury one of his characters suffers in a suprise attack during the war. The descriptions of the vet's difficulties in his marriage after returning from Vietnam also ring true and are sensitively rendered.<br />When O'Brien strays from this turf, however, he struggles, and the novel limps to an unsatisfying end. The reader is left wondering what he knows about the characters he has met during this weekend of carousing and reminiscing, and the conclusion is not much -- and he doesn't believe, in most cases, that any of it could have possibly happened anyway in the way O'Brien describes anyway. For readers new to O'Brien, skip this one and move directly to the two aforementioned works or &quot;Going After Cacciato.&quot;	2004-02-20
US	52442326	R2I65STJK35K6D	0375411151	209374208	Samaritan	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A surprising disappointment	Price's earlier strong work made the appearance of &quot;Samaritan&quot; the occasion of some anticipation, but for me the novel failed to deliver the expected punch.<br />The premise is sound: a product of the New Jersey projects with a checkered past unexpectedly achieves success as a writer in LA, but returns to his old haunts, mostly to try to reconnect with is daughter, from whom he has been physically separated since his divorce.<br />The novel, however, pivots on a vicious attack on the writer, Nick, who refuses to reveal the nature of the assault to a black female detective --nicknamed Tweetie -- who, remarkably, lived in the projects at the same time. In fact, Nick witnessed, and even participated in, a humiliation of a young Tweetie.<br />Well, Ok, quite a coincidence, but maybe we're still willing to go along, except that Price introduces yet another character from Nick's past in a chance meeting that ultimately leads to the attack that Tweetie winds up investigating.<br />Too much authorial meddling for me, but Price can write well, so I might be willing to go along. However, he compounds problems by insisting that his main character is an inveterate storyteller. And oh, how this character tells stories. In fact, that's about all he does, in endless forays into the past that seem merely to serve as an excuse for Price to wax eloquently through his characters. Well, other readers might have enjoyed the liberties Price takes, but for this reader, a series of speeches by the characters and long narrative expositions of what happened years ago is a prescription for a stagnant narrative, no matter now masterful the writer.<br />In fact, I give three stars only on the strength of the prose. Unlike novels I best admire, which gain strength as they progress, &quot;Samaritan&quot; tired as it reached the finish line, leaving me both exhausted and relieved that the ordeal was over.	2003-12-06
US	52442326	RZ0GT8EET5BMW	0195051807	525111510	The Harvest of Sorrow: Soviet Collectivization and the Terror-Famine	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Towering Achievement	Conquest's examination of Stalin's calamitous decision to collectivize agriculture in the Soviet Union is not an easy read, nor should it be. It is a worthy companion to the author's great work on Stalin's reign of terror in the '30s, and in fact serves as a \\"prequel\\" to the latter, having been published some 15 years later.<br />The great strength of the work lies in Conquest's meticulous efforts to explicate the roots of the communist regime's ruthless murder of millions of peasants. He details Marx's and, more importantly, Lenin's disdain for the peasantry, an underlying hatred that helps to explain Stalin's justification for departing from Lenin's pragmatic decision to embark on a \\"New Economic Policy\\" in 1921 that -- against his ideological bias -- offered new freedoms that spawned the despised class known as the Kulaks. Without this groundwork, one is tempted to dismiss the human destruction as the mere abberations of a sick mind. <br />Conquest makes abundantly clear that these supposedly fabulously wealthy farmers -- the Kulaks -- were in fact people of very modest means. Their greatest crime, of course, was that they obstinately resisted Stalin's determination that capitalism would be wiped from the countryside, whatever the cost. Much of the last half of the book recounts in stark detail the incredibly costly, but ultimately successful, effort to end peasant resistance to collectivization. Importantly, he points out, even after all realistic Kulak \\"resistance\\" had been eliminated, the Soviets continued to claim that the threat continued and extended their seasons of murder. And even for the most coldly pragmatic, he also convincingly argues that the collectivization was an unmitigated economic disaster that killed incentive and left nearly barren a countryside that in the hands of an intelligent leader should have been turned into one of the most productive in the world.<br />If one were to ask, what is the point of reading and recalling this hideous chapter in Russian and human history, one might just as well ask, why remember the Holocaust? While the circumstances of human history may change, the motivations that drive individuals remain quite consistent. Stalin, in the end, shrugged off the Marxist theory to which he professed he was committed in favor of the naked pursuit of power. Economic theory served as nothing more than a justification for the slaughter of millions of human beings. Leaders who in the future aspire to the kind of local and world power that Hitler and Stalin achieved will reveal their motivations to those who are vigilant, and it will be to humanity's great profit if those with sufficient awareness and foresight are able to thwart those efforts.	2003-12-06
US	52442326	RHBF24W3Y6I6S	0446894281	369360462	Foul! The Connie Hawkins Story	Books	5	6	7	N	N	On the short list of great sports books	David Wolf tells the story of the bittersweet life of basketball great Connie Hawkins to great effect in this fine book that is a biography and more.<br />More because \\"Foul\\" recounts in detail the circumstances that led to Hawkins' longstanding ban from the NBA for his at best highly tenuous link to corruption in college sports. In telling the story, Wolf paints a damning picture of big-time sports, a picture that is, if anything, truer than ever today.<br />Wolf sets up the story by giving us a glimpse into Hawkins' poverty-stricken childhood in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where he led an unhappy existence that was relieved only when he discovered he had nearly unparalleled basketball skills. He quickly became a playground legend and developed the trademark swooping moves that many of us who got to see him play remember and that made his nickname so apt: Hawk.<br />Unfortunately, Hawkins did not receive one important thing along the way: an education. One of the most highly recruited players of the time, he was ready to play the college game on the court, but woefully unprepared to play it in the classroom. He was chronically broke, painfully shy, and extremely naive, a combination which made him particularly vulnerable to the unscrupulous character whose actions ultimately led to his ban from the NBA.<br />\\"Foul\\" also tells a detailed and fascinating story of the fledgling American Basketball Association, which was where Hawkins was forced to play and also where he began cementing his legend in the basketball world. It's instructive to read about the low pay and inferior playing conditions Hawkins endured, all the time knowing, of course, that he could easily compete with the best the NBA had to offer.<br />Finally, the book delivers a detailed account of the legal fight undertaken to remove the ban. This was achieved by his committed -- and of course poorly paid -- attorneys over the determined opposition of, among others, current NBA commissioner David Stern, who hardly expresses remorse in his interviews with the author.<br />The final sadness of Hawkins' story, of course, is that while he had an above-average NBA career, his best years were taken from him, and most basketball fans were deprived of seeing him when he was one of the best players in the game.<br />Connie Hawkins remains in my mind after reading this book, not only because of his compelling story, but because of his resilience and humanity. All in all, \\"Foul\\" is a sports classic because it fascinates on so many levels.	2003-07-24
US	52442326	R2VWFXKHYQVQQH	0393320863	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A master historian's summing-up	Paul Johnson, quoted on the cover of this book, calls Conquest or greatest living modern historian, and it is difficult to argue with that. Certainly as a student of Russian history and a Sovietologist, he is in elite company, having produced masterworks on Stalin's long reign of terror, the disastrous Soviet collectivization of agriculture and the death camps of Kolyma.<br />&quot;Reflections on a Ravaged Century&quot; is in part a summing up of the judgments on totalitarian societies that he has earned through his decades of study and writing. <br />Conquest develops as his thesis the judgment that those societies proved calamitous to their citizens and to the rest of the world because of their single-minded devotion to &quot;Ideas,&quot; which he purposely capitalizes to make the point that the theorizers driving &quot;change&quot; were more devoted to ideology than they were to economic reality or simple regard for human life.<br />A portion of the first part of the book is devoted to systematically deconstructing and debunking Marxist ideology, a thoroughly redundant task, from one point of view, but one he undertakes, I believe, in service of making a point highly relevant to today's society. That is, that the Marxist view of the world is premised on the idea that classes of society are fated to eternal struggle. No accommodation can be made to settle conflict; all disputes resolve inevitably in total and complete victory for one side or the other-and of course in the Marxist view, the inevitable victor is &quot;the proletariat.&quot; As we think about the nature of the struggle in the Middle East, for example, we see that even without a Marxist context, this idea of a zero-sum game in human relations has hardly fallen out of favor.<br />Conquest also takes to task those in the West who he believes made excuses for, or ignored, the horrible excesses of the Soviet Union, choosing, he says, to believe that lives were sacrificed in the name of creating a better society. He quotes, to devastating effect, the rather recent words of the Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm, who said, in effect, that even the loss of millions of lives would be justified by the creation of a socialist society wou. The definition of a moral blind spot, I would say.<br />The second, and for me less successful, part of the book takes a look at the current state of the world. Despite the West's victory over the Soviet Union, Conquest is clearly concerned that the world still stands vulnerable to the lure of &quot;Ideas.&quot; No argument there, but for me the writer makes a mistake by seeming to equate the admittedly irritating ideas  and behaviors of the &quot;politically correct&quot; with a drift toward totalitarianism. It seems a bit cantankerous to take to task-twice!-recycling, on the grounds that it is a worthless idea that has been foisted on us by Leftists.<br />Nonetheless, the second half also contains some very interesting thoughts on how he sees the West's alliances around the globe shifting-and in what direction they should, in his estimation. He also critically looks at the European Union, chastizing it for its devotion to theory rather than reality. <br />For those unfamiliar with Conquest's work, add a half star. It's a good introduction.	2003-07-22
US	52442326	R1IBJZ4PX8UU27	0873488571	626233207	John Coltrane and the Jazz Revolution of the 1960's	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Well-intentioned but misdirected	Kofsky's effort in this book is to tie the avant-garde jazz music that emerged in the sixties to the politics of black nationalism that were boiling up at the same time. His essential thesis is that jazz is an African American art form that is and always has been by its very nature a form of protest against the physical and ideological shackles placed on black people by an oppressive society. He asserts that the musical freedom that black jazz artists searched for in the '60s went hand-in-hand with the efforts of Malcolm X and others to create a new, Afrocentric society that would presumably free black people to nurture their cultural identity.<br />As the title suggests, Kofsky saw John Coltrane as the key figure in this movement. He is unstinting in his praise of Coltrane's music, so much so that even I, a hard-core fan of Trane's for more than 30 years, found myself yearning for a more leavened approach. Kofsky certainly knows Coltrane's music well. But he makes, in my opinion, a fatal error in investing that music with a political consciousness and aim that Coltrane himself never professed. In fact, in an interview included in the book that Kofsky conducted with the saxophonist, he (Coltrane) makes clear that he does not subscribe to Kofsky's thesis, despite the writer's repeated attempts to put words in his mouth. Some years ago, I secured a tape of this interview, and it's startling to hear how insistent Kofsky becomes in attempting to lead his subject where he clearly doesn't want to go.<br />Another key weakness of the book is that it gives short shrift to so many fine musicians of the period. Charles Mingus, for example, a key influence on the avant-garde, is barely mentioned. If you read the book and had never heard of Miles Davis, you'd come away thinking that he was just another planet circling the Coltrane star instead of one of the formative influences on the saxophonist himself. And of course solid and influential musicians who made incremental contributions to the music -- Joe Henderson, Bobby Hutcherson, Lee Morgan, Jaki Byard, Herbie Hancock (the list could go on and on) -- receive nary a word. Meanwhile, Archie Shepp is lionized, first and foremost because of his radical politics.<br />Lest anyone think I'm taking a shot at Archie, I hasten to add that I think he's made a number of fine albums, and I own quite a few of them. The point is that one realizes early on that Kofsky is less interested in understanding the creative process and analyzing the relative musical merits of jazz musicians than he is in developing a social critique and applying his political litmus tests to the musicians of the era. Viewed in this light, the book is not very informative. A long critique of the \\"cockroach capitalism\\" practiced by jazz club owners 40 years ago doesn't carry much weight today. And alas, the socialist revolution that Kofsky proclaimed was imminent has somehow failed to come to pass, yet jazz has endured. Is there a lesson there?<br />In the end, Kofsky manages to minimize the artistry of the musicians and make them appear to be guided inexorably by Marxist ideology. That's pretty flimsy and it certainly in my mind is a disservice to the many great musicians of the '60s who could never be pinned down to one influence. In fact, their stubborn resistance to being pinned down, and to be endlessly open to new ideas, is precisely what made them jazz musicians.<br />For a much better insight into the life of the jazz musician, I would suggest A.B. Spellman's \\"Four Lives in the Bebop Business,\\" and for a balanced analysis of Coltrane's music, Eric Nisenson's \\"Ascension.\\"	2003-04-16
US	52442326	R1Z38WOLIHVLL6	0910137803	83386653	Lefty Grove: American Original	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sheds light on a forgotten legend	Jim Kaplan sets out in this well-researched book to resurrect the figure of Lefty Grove, a 300-game winner whose career spanned those of Walter Johnson and Ted Williams. For the most part, he convincingly makes his case that Groves deserves to be included among a handful of baseball's elite pitchers and that he was perhaps the best lefthander hurler ever.<br />Whatever shortcomings the book may have, the reader is bound to be impressed by Kaplan's knowledge of Grove's career (he takes us through each of his 17 big league seasons and four that he spent at the minor league level) and his painstaking efforts to convey a sense of the time in which Grove played. When he describes one of Grove's many confrontations with Babe Ruth, the writing has the ring of truth. Particularly effective is his recounting of the famous 1929 World Series game in which Grove's Philadelphia A's scored 10 runs in one inning to wipe out an eight-run Chicago Cub lead en route to winning the world championship.<br />Kaplan brings to life several key figures of Grove's time, most notably Connie Mack, Grove's manager with the A's and a man who not only strongly influenced the lives of his players but also the organizational direction of baseball. Long before the 1997 Marlins were broken up to save money, Mack was doing the same thing, jettisoning big names and large salaries to build teams anew. He also offers a valuable analysis of Mack's and Grove's 1929-1931 Philadelphia A's, convincingly arguing that these teams (that also included Hall of Famers Al Simmons, Mickey Cochrane, to name a few) were the equal of the more celebrated 1926-1928 Yankees, whose 1927 edition is generally considered the greatest in baseball history.<br />Also of note is the final section, which analyzes the careers of Johnson, Grove and Sandy Koufax and offers the reader statistical food for thought in considering who was the greatest lefthander ever. <br />Kaplan's writing is solid but unspectacular and he lapses at times into a cheerleading tone, particularly when he discusses Grove's great achievements (which included nine ERA titles, a 31-4 season, a career .680 winning percentage and a 1935-1939 resurrection of his craft, during which he transformed himself from a fireballer into a finesse pitcher.) <br />Kaplan's otherwise fine description of the last day of the 1941 season, in which Williams secured his .406 average by going six-for-eight after refusing to sit on the bench for a doubleheader, is marred by the writer's tone of breathless admiration for the player's feat. Nothing wrong with being a fan when you write a baseball book, but I prefer that the author for the most part let the facts speak for themselves.<br />All in all, Kaplan produces a portrait of a driven, often disagreeable man who hated losing and was impatient with the shortcomings of mere athletic mortals. The picture of Lefty is convincing, but Kaplan uses the same strokes pretty heavily to produce it.<br />The baseball fan/historian will find this a very useful look at this undeservedly obscure figure and will find it particularly interesting to revisit an era of the sport that differs so radically from the present one.	2003-04-16
US	52442326	R11NUZI3P7AQJN	0452269083	190182168	The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner (Contemporary Fiction, Plume)	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Several standouts	This is Sillitoe's best-known work, a collection of stories presumably drawn in large part from his working class life in Great Britain. The book's emphasis on gritty realism will not be everyone's cup of tea -- no pun intended -- but I found his prose clean, powerful and nearly free of sentimentality.<br />Sillitoe's sympathy for the working class is best demonstrated in the title story, narrated by a teen resident of a reform school whose voice vibrates with rebellion. The youth shows a keen awareness of his position within England's rigid class structure and has made a conscious decision to resist those whom he says have &quot;the whip hand&quot; over him. Sillitoe reveals the motivation for his protagonist's attitude in an understated but memorable scene in which the youth remembers finding his laborer father dead, blood spilled out of his consumptive body. The reader sees the boy's perception that his father's life has been used up by the system. In the story's surprising final turn, the youth -- who has become a champion runner for his school -- attempts  in his own way to turn the tables on that system.<br />The book contains several other strong stories. &quot;The Fishing-Boat Picture&quot; is the bittersweet memoir of a failed marriage; it effectively dramatizes the sense of lost opportunity we feel when our most important human connections are broken. &quot;Mr Raynor the School-Teacher&quot; brings to life the stultifying atmosphere of a London public school  classroom presided over by a jaded teacher whose only ambition is to keep his rebellious charges at bay so that he can drift in reverie. &quot;The Decline and Fall of Frankie Buller&quot; has the feeling of a memoir. The narrator describes his hardscrabble youth and subsequent escape from his environment. Frankie Buller is the symbol of the ruined youth he left behind: a boy who was once a giant among his playmates who has grown older without ever progressing spiritually or creatively. The narrator would never wish to be a Frankie Buller, but his words are permeated with the guilty tone of the survivor.<br />Not all of the stories succeed as admirably as these. Still, at his best, Sillitoe crafts the claustrophobic environments of his stories, often in the service of social criticism. His characters may long to escape the grays and blacks of their worlds, but the stories themselves offer no such escape for the reader.	2003-03-21
US	52442326	R32PICV4S5MX7G	0306806444	374723015	Ascension: John Coltrane And His Quest	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Thoughtful approach	Too often the words written about the career of John Coltrane lapse into idolatry or overanalysis. Biographies by J.C. Thomas and Cuthbert Simpkins lack a sense of critical judgment, while Bill Cole's work is fine for the musician but difficult for the lay listener. Frank Kofsky's \\"Black Nationalism and the Revolution in Music,\\" meanwhile, attempted to put Coltrane's music in a political framework he never intended.<br />Eric Nisenson's \\"Ascension,\\" refreshingly, focuses on Coltrane's music, attempting to understand not only where it came from but also the extent of its influence on jazz since the saxophonist's death in 1967. Nisenson is clearly a fan of the music, but to his credit, his admiration does not cloud his critical judgment.<br />One important accomplishment of Nisenson's book is to establish a context for Coltrane's creativity and his late-life forays into free jazz. He revisits Coltrane's early life in North Carolina, where he grew up in relatively comfortable surroundings, exposed to the music of the church and of his father, a tailor and amateur musician. Nisenson also emphasizes Coltrane's early apprenticeships with Dizzy Gillespie, Earl Bostic, Cleanhead Vinson and his time in Philadelphia, a hothouse of jazz playing that produced many an important contemporary, including Lee Morgan, Benny Golson and Jimmy Heath. <br />In addition, Nisenson thoroughly explores Coltrane's important time with Miles Davis, during which he mastered not only his chordal approach but also the modal approach to music and improvisation that Miles took on with \\"Kind of Blue.\\" And he thoroughly documents  Trane's later interest in the Eastern, African and other world music, which strongly influenced many of his albums as a leader.<br />In fact, Nisenson's attention to the searching quality of Coltrane's mind and his music generates the key theme of the book: that the saxophonist's greatness was derived not only from his musical mastery but from his unceasing search for new modes of expression. It was this search, Nisenson argues, that ultimately led Coltrane to embrace the avant-garde experiments undertaken by younger musicians such as Archie Shepp, Albert Ayler and Pharaoh Sanders in the last few years of his life.<br />Nisenson does not downplay the courage required of Coltrane to push the limits of his music long after his fame had been established, and he could have played it safe, but neither does he shy away from being critical of some of the musician's later cacophonous efforts. <br />The sole criticism I have of the book is that it seems to reach the conclusion that since Coltrane, Miles and Ornette Coleman, there has been little in the way of true creativity on the jazz scene. A response would require another review, but suffice it to say that I disagree; that the current jazz scene may be more fragmented, and undoubtedly many musicians are playing it safe, but also that there are many young and older jazz musicians making very creative music on small labels.<br />That aside, this is a very worthwhile read for long-time listeners of Coltrane or for those coming to his music for the first time.	2003-03-17
US	52442326	R2TSH1RVE2DG3L	0671634232	127499313	My Turn at Bat: The Story of My Life (Fireside Sports Classics)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Complex personality	First, a quick qualifier: the four stars is for &quot;My Turn at Bat&quot; as a baseball book. Unlike &quot;The Boys of Summer,&quot; for example, it is not also a literary gem, nor, I suspect, was it intended to be.<br />That said, Williams and his collaborator, the fine writer John Underwood, achieve a peppery tone in the book that one certainly heard in Williams's voice when he spoke out after his baseball life. Williams's language is rich and funny and-especially when he speaks about baseball writers-sometimes bitter. <br />The book paints a vivid picture of Williams's childhood in San Diego which, he says, included countless hours playing ball in backyards and city parks. Ted is at pains later in the book to point out that his enormous success as a hitter came from this constant practice, not as a result of his keen eyesight, which was the subject of much legend.<br />The book also brings to life the storied Yankees-Red Sox rivalry, which of course produced a lopsided advantage in favor of the New Yorkers during Williams's career. You feel his frustration when he discusses the final-game loss to the Yankees in 1949 that ended the Red Sox season and the team's subsequent decline over the remainder of his career. That loss came after his poor showing in the 1946 World Series-the only one of his career-and a season-ending playoff loss to the Indians in 1948.<br />These frustrations and his vicious battles with the press bring out the human side of Ted, important because as a hitter he seemed to most in a world of his own. To his credit, he doesn't dwell unduly on his achievements, but to ignore the magnitude of them is impossible: only one season below .300, 521 career home runs, an incredible on-base percentage, and so on. The humanity is also revealed in his description of his final at-bat (which resulted in a home run). Despite his emotion, he was unable, he says, to acknowledge the crowd (famously commented on in an essay by John Updike) despite its clamoringand the urging of his teammates to take an extra turn in the spotlight. Not my way, the Splendid Splinter says.<br />A final section of the book is also very interesting for Williams's comments on the secrets of hitting and his recommendations for improving the game. Some of the latter are timely for the game today: he urges hitters and pitchers to work more quickly, and he advocated before its adoption the use of a designated hitter. Personally I don't find that to have been one of baseball's shining ideas, but he certainly was foresighted.<br />If you're looking for much on Ted's personal life, look elsewhere, but as a fine read for the student of baseball, &quot;My Turn at a Bat&quot; should get a turn with the reader.	2003-03-12
US	52442326	R27K0BPMWSH281	0452270529	882080710	This Little Light of Mine: The Life of Fannie Lou Hamer	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Fills an important niche	Mills' biography is a welcome addition to the growing body of literature on the civil rights movement. The well-documented work explores the life of Ms. Hamer, an important figure in the '60s Deep-South struggles whose name may be unfamiliar to some.<br />Fannie Lou Hamer was a poorly educated woman who, like most of her contemporaries growing up in pre-Depression Mississippi and beyond, endured virtual apartheid for a good portion of her life. Voting rights were essentially unknown to African-Americans in the state, which was controlled for decades by opponents of civil rights locally and through the state's federal representatives, most notably James O. Eastland, a senator who consistently stalled civil rights legislation through his control of the Judiciary Committee.<br />Ms. Hamer was among the first African-Americans to challenge Mississippi's voting registration practices, which were designed to bar blacks from voting. For her troubles, she was arrested, detained in a small-town jail and beaten so severely that she sustained injuries that eventually shortened her life.<br />Mills paints a vivid picture of Ms. Hamer's indomitable spirit, which was symbolized by her powerful singing voice, frequently employed to boost the courage of her local comrades and of the black and white workers who came to Mississippi during the Freedom Summer of 1964 in an attempt to challenge the white supremacists who ran the state.<br />Nowhere does her spirit come through more clearly than in Mills' account of the 1964 challenge Hamer and others leveled at the Democratic delegation sent to the presidential convention in Atlantic City. The challengers persuasively claimed that they represented thousands of disenfranchised African-Americans who had been denied their right to participate in the political process. The Democratic presidential candidate, Lyndon Johnson, and his running mate, Hubert Humphrey, Mills recounts, dragged their feet on addressing the challengers' claims, only belatedly offering a weak compromise that Hamer and some others fiercely opposed.<br />&quot;I question America,&quot; Hamer memorably said during hearings on her group's challenge of the white-only delegation. Mills is careful to explore the arguments and motivations of those within Hamer's delegation who argued in favor of accepting the compromise, but it is clear that her heart lies with Hamer's courageous stand.<br />In the end, the 1964 challenge failed, but in 1968 another challenge succeeded and Hamer was seated, along with others, at that year's presidential convention. The victory, which deserves special mention in American history, was tempered and largely forgotten due to the street violence for which the 1968 convention is now largely remembered.<br />Mills also does a fine job of relating Ms. Hamer's attention to the plight of the poor and her attempts to build political power for the impoverished. One gets a strong sense of the sacrifice that Hamer made to live a life committed to political struggle.<br />It is only when Mills attempts to summarize the major events of the civil rights movement that the book's strength flags. I found the first couple of chapters negligible because I'm familiar with the big events of the movement and frankly they've been done better elsewhere.<br />When she turns her attention to Ms. Hamer, however, Mills delivers a story worth telling in strong prose that reveals her admiration for her subject without sacrificing her critical judgment.	2002-09-11
US	52442326	R1YB7A7AXVE0LV	0802130461	930529056	Speed-the-Plow	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	Intoxicating prose, uncertain structure	Mamet gives us blinding pace in this spare play, a mere 82 pages in print. It can easily be read in an hour. The rapid-fire exchanges between characters put the reader in the position of a rubber-necked viewer at a tennis match between serve-and-volley powerhouses. If merely keeping the reader/viewer engaged is the goal of good theater, Mamet succeeds, in spades.<br />But truly great theater resonates after the reader has laid the play aside or exited the playhouse.  In this regard, \\"Speed-the-Plow,\\" superior work though it may be, falls just a bit short for me, although I confess I have not seen it performed on stage, and would jump at the chance to do so. In any event, as a piece of reading, the play is too slight in its ideas for me to classify it as top-notch.<br />The play is built on a simple idea. Two movie execs, Charlie Fox and Bobby Gould, meet in Gould's office. Fox has brought Gould, his superior, a sure-fire hit, which from all we can gather will be a typical piece of Hollywood pap sure to please the masses. Fox has sold the script idea to a big-time Hollywood performer who has given them a short-time to put the deal together.<br />Enter Karen, Gould's temporary office assistant. Gould has been giving an obtuse, esoteric novel a \\"courtesy read,\\" and as a ploy to seduce her, Gould asks Karen to read the novel and give him a report on it. Fox offers Gould a friendly bet that he won't succeed with Karen. Somehow -- and this is a key weakness in the play -- Karen manages in the second act to convince the hard-boiled Gould to produce the film of the novel, at the expense of Fox's project. When Fox learns of this, the following day, he is of course outraged and manages in the end to convince Gould that the seemingly idealistic Karen is in fact no different than either of them and has used Gould sexually in return for the promise to produce the \\"art\\" film.<br />Much of the play's power derives from Mamet's undeniable gift with language. Fox and Gould sound absolutely real as Hollywood types: borderline slimeball, jaded, absolutely devoid of idealism, but very funny, precisely because of all these things.<br />Language, however, is only one element of successful theater. The motivations of Karen are obscure, but more importantly one is hard-pressed to believe that Gould, who spends much of the play developing in different ways the idea that he's not paid to produce art, would even momentarily be convinced to dump a sure box office smash and endure the humiliation that Fox heaps on him. All I could think of was, That Karen must have been some dame. Trouble is, I didn't get enough of her through Mamet's development to buy that.<br />I'm a big Mamet fan, and even work that is not his best is for me worth reading. \\"Speed-the-Plow\\" was, simply put, intoxicating the first time I read it because of its rhythmic intensity. Even if its intoxication fades a bit in the aftermath of reading, enough of a glow lingers to make the time spent worthwhile.bsolutely real as Hollywood types: borderline slimeball, jaded, absolutely devoid of idealism, but very funny, precisely because of all these things.<br />Language, however, is only one element of successful theater. The motivations of Karen are obscure, but more importantly one is hard-pressed to believe that Gould, who spends much of the play developing in different ways the idea that he's not paid to produce art, would even momentarily be convinced to dump a sure box office smash and endure the humiliation that Fox heaps on him. All I could think of was, That Karen must have been some dame. Trouble is, I didn't get enough of her through Mamet's development to buy that.<br />I'm a big Mamet fan, and even work that is not his best is for me worth reading. \\"Speed-the-Plow\\" was, simply put, intoxicating the first time I read it because of its rhythmic intensity. Even if its intoxication fades a bit in the aftermath of reading, enough of a glow lingers to make the time spent worthwhile.	2002-03-07
US	52442326	R2ZNCK9JVOTZM	0385493681	72742031	Last Man Standing: The Tragedy and Triumph of Geronimo Pratt	Books	5	4	6	N	N	What is justice?	In the midst of the flag-waving patriotism of the 21st century, it is instructive to read \\"Last Man Standing,\\" a fine piece of investigative journalism and literature that reminds us of the dangers of placing power in the hands of the police.<br />\\"Last Man Standing\\" details the ordeal of Geronimo Pratt, a Vietnam vet from a strong Louisiana family, who joined the Black Panther Party in the late '60s and became embroiled in that period's brutal politics.<br />Whatever one thinks of the Panthers' politics, then and now, history has proven that they were the target of vicious and illegal attacks, by both local law enforcement agencies and the FBI. Through this assault, Pratt was charge with a paair of murders and sentenced to life in prison.<br />Olsen details Pratt's early life, and the support of his family, in fine detail. In doing so, he destroys the notion that the Panthers were criminals and street thugs. <br />In fact, Olsen lays some of the blame for Pratt's ordeal at the door of the Panthers. Bobby Seale, Huey Newton and David Hilliard, among others, refused to step forward to give Pratt key testimony, in part because of the duplicity of the FBI.<br />\\"Last Man Standing\\" convincingly makes the case that justice lies in the province of those who can pay for it. Pratt was released, after more than a quarter century of his life had been lost, but only with the dedicated efforts of attorneys, including Johnnie Cochrane, who stuck with the case for years and years after the unjust verdict had been delivered; and even more importanly, Stuart Hanlon, who took on Pratt's case when there was little to gain from doing so.<br />This work moved me on many levels. Most of all, I respond as the author of an unreleased play on the life and death of Panther Fred Hampton. Fred was also victimized by the actions of COINTELPRO, the brain child of the FBI. Read this book. It will, I believe, open up your eyes to what can occur when the government is granted power to proceed unfettered.	2002-02-23
US	52442326	R1N51QRZ179C2T	0679740708	164774	Makes Me Wanna Holler: A Young Black Man in America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Thought provoking	It's natural as a reader to fit McCall's autobiography in a long and distinguished line of fine narratives by African-American writers. From Frederick Douglass to George Jackson and Eldridge Cleaver, we have had gritty but often poetic prose illuminating the pain of segregation and racism as well as the pride won through difficult struggle. McCall, in &quot;Makes Me Wanna Holler,&quot; attempts to pick up this torch, and he succeeds, although the story he must tell is a far different one than the one told by his literary predecessors.<br />McCall, born in the mid-'50s, led a far different life growing up than say, Richard Wright, James Baldwin or Claude Brown, let alone Frederick Douglass. He grew up in a working class/middle class section of Portsmouth, Virginia, had strong guidance from his mother and hard-working stepfather and never describes in the memoir times of poverty or material want. Yet by his late teens he was, by his own description, a thug, and by his early twenties, he had shot and nearly killed a man and been convicted of armed robbery, for which he served three years in the Virginia penal system.<br />For me, &quot;Makes Me Wanna Holler&quot; is, at bottom, a tale of unrelenting peer pressure as well as a meditation on the ambiguity of &quot;making it&quot; as an African-American in the '80s and early '90s, after the major civil rights battles had supposedly been won. <br />In the first instance, McCall is seduced by the hoods and the hipsters of his neighborhood and essentially rejects the work ethic of his stepfather as well as the opportunity for education in favor of hanging with the crowd, drinking, doing drugs and exacting violent acts of vengenace on whites he blames for isolating and humilating him during a short stretch he spent at a junior high in his early adolescence.<br />In the second instance, McCall, having served his time in prison and earning early parole, works his way up the mainstream ladder, getting a college degree in journalism and serving successful stints at newspapers in Portsmouth, Atlanta and finally the Washington Post. What would seem to be a tale of success is not because, as McCall relates in great detail, the anger he still feels toward whites and the difficulty he has adjusting to a corporate world that often seems phony and ultimately geared against him keeps him on edge and often saps him of his emotional strength.<br />These two strands of the book make it a much more difficult read than the line of African-American autobiographies of which it is a part, from the memoirs of Frederick Douglass, through the works of Richard Wright, James Baldwin, James Weldon Johnson, Claude Brown, Malcolm X, George Jackson and Eldridge Cleaver. These men faced highly visible and significant educational, political and social barriers. All dealt with the psychological and cultural barriers faced by African-Americans, but none more so than McCall. Indeed, near the end of the book, he confesses that he sometimes no longer knows whether the anxiety and hostility he feels around whites comes from their attitudes or from his own uncertainty about what they are actually feeling.<br />McCall's book ultimately describes a search for values that will sustain him in a world in which he often feels himself a stranger. The work points up and ultimately destroys the comfortable illusion we have that we're all really alike at bottom. We're not, McCall insists. There is a black culture that is very different from mainstream white culture, and the gap will not easily be bridged.<br />It's a strong and worthwhile book, one that is at times slightly marred by long dissertations about his marital difficulties. He used them in part for an interesting and important discussion about the duties of fatherhood, with which he struggled, but he also spends too much time lamenting he injustices of divorce, which I found to be a distraction and a detriment to the power of the narrative.	2001-12-02
US	52442326	R2FUU3LP4PO53I	0618087281	304267562	Hurricane: The Miraculous Journey of Rubin Carter	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Balanced viewpoint	This is an &quot;authorized&quot; biography, meaning that its subject (boxer Rubin &quot;Hurricane&quot; Carter) cooperated in its production, but that doesn't mean that it's a hagiography. Hirsch produces a book that generates a sense of outrage at the injustice Carter suffered without minimizing Carter's difficult personality.<br />Carter's story is familiar to many. Accused of triple murder in Paterson, New Jersey, in the late '60s, he was convicted, despite dubious evidence, and imprisoned for nearly 20 years before his conviction was overturned. With the help of Bob Dylan, he became a cause celebre in the mid-'70s, won a new trial, and then, incredibly, saw his conviction upheld, forcing a return to prison, at which point he became nearly a forgotten man.<br />Nearly forgotten, but not entirely, because of the efforts of an obscure and enigmatic commune in Toronto that championed his cause and worked tirelessly for a decade in the cause of his relief. Hirsch effectively documents Carter's ambivalent relationship with this group, particularly its leader, with whom he became spiritually and romantically involved.<br />Hirsch chronicles in his book Carter's journey through a legal system that abused him and through his own psyche. He was at times an unreasoning, violent man who battled not only opponents in the ring, but alcoholism, fits of rage and purposeless impulses to battle the system through criminal acts.<br />Hirsch's thoroughly researched book ultimately sounds a cautionary note. Carter succeeded in his quest for justice, but only with the help of extremely dedicated attorneys and friends. Thousands of hours were expended in battling state power. One wonders how many, without benefit of such resources, have languished in prison, unable to muster the resources to mount a legal counter-offensive.<br />Hirsch's clean, powerful prose renders an unflinching portrait of a flawed, but brave man. Recommended reading.	2001-09-28
US	52442326	R1WKSZQSTDTXO6	0375702296	993234858	King of the World: Muhammad Ali and the Rise of an American Hero	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Knockout	David Remnick delivers a terrific biography of Muhammad Ali with &quot;King of the World,&quot; but this book should never be mistaken for a conventional sports biography. It is also social history and a compassionate yet realistic portrait of America's guiltiest pleasure: the seamy, yet somehow sometimes heroic world of professional boxing.<br />The first thing that struck me when I read the book is that its first section discusses Muhammad Ali (or Cassius Clay) very little. Instead, Remnick focuses on the two boxers who helped to gave shape to Ali's legend: Floyd Patterson and Sonny Liston. The former was a reluctant champion from the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, and Remnick brings Patterson's reticence and self-doubt into full view. The latter was a street thug from an impoverished rural background, a vision of America's deepest fears about African-Americans. <br />Remnick details Liston's two devastating first-round demolitions of Patterson and illuminates the complicated relationship the public had with Liston. On the one hand, he was despised because of his criminal background and ties to the mob; on the other, Remnick makes clear, he was comforing because he confirmed stereotyped perceptions of black men. One of Remnick's great accompishments in the book is to humanize Liston without in the least diminishing his surly and even hateful demeanor.<br />With Liston the controversial heavyweight champ, the loud, abrasive, seemingly self-confident Cassius Clay, of Louisville, Kentucky, stepped into the national spotlight. Remnick displays the future champion in all his complex glory: his braggadocio, his complex relationship with white people, including his trainer and doctor, his innate intelligence that was paired with his lack of formal schooling, his ability to manipulate the press, and so on. <br />Interwoven into his story of how Cassius Clay literally created his life and legend and became the man we know as Muhammad Ali is excellent social history on the civil rights movement and Ali's relationship with the Muslims, including Elijah Muhammad and Malcolm X. It is not surprising for those of us who grew up in the '60s that sport was so mixed up with politics in Muhammad Ali's day and that he was a key figure in shaping politics. Those who do not remember the time, however, may find it enlightening to realize that there was once an athlete who paid dearly for his political beliefs: Muhammad Ali was stripped of his heavyweight title and banned from the ring for four years for his opposition to the war in Vietnam.<br />Remnick brings all of this vividly to life. He manages, in a bare 300 pages, to meld sports, politics, and history into a story that unfolds like a great heavyweight fight. Must read.	2001-05-06
US	52442326	R1WIBA480EQOU2	0393310957	32962053	The Revolt of the Masses	Books	5	126	136	N	N	Penetrating insights	A superbly written book, &quot;The Revolt of the Masses&quot; can be considered of limited value if one views it from a strictly historical perspective. True, Ortega y Gasset, writing in 1932, offered a clear and devastating critique of the tenets of fascism in particular and totalitarianism in general. He is particularly effective when he takes apart fascism's mystical elevation of race, blood and soil, arguing that the popular appeal to these factors was shallow, explained nothing about the process of nation-building, and was used only as a political expedient for the emerging dictatorships of Europe.<br />But one could argue that however effective his argument, Ortega y Gasset, a Spaniard, was in perfect position to critique fascism and its foibles, being able to observe it from a closer perspective than others. After all, the war for men's hearts and minds was fought out in no small part on Spanish soil in the '30s. <br />Ortega y Gasset was also not alone in critiquing the rise of mass man, which is the book's major point. Joseph Wood Krutch, for example, in &quot;The Modern Temper&quot; (an excellent companion to this book) had pointed out that the emergence of mass society and the development of technology had stripped away Man's sustaining illusions, at great cost. <br />&quot;The Revolt of the Masses&quot; decries the leveling of society that the author observes, and the reader is at first made uncomfortable by the argument. I found myself mentally attacking Ortega y Gasset's elitism. I nearly concluded that the book was simply an apologia for an anti-democratic bias and for those who would protect political power from seizure by the common man.<br />On further reflection, though, I concluded that Ortega y Gasset's argument is more complex and that the sustaining power of the book lies in its deeper layers of meaning. While he is certainly elitist, he glorifies the elites who invest in society and contribute to it, not those who simply hold onto power for its own sake and justify their hold by clinging to the past. In fact, he upholds republicanism as the most effective form of government -- and the one most difficult to sustain.<br />His strongest point -- and the one most important for the modern reader -- comes when he says that the mass of men have no appreciation for the labor required to build nations and societies and the commitment required to sustain them. He writes pessimistically that the mass man of his day had little or no appreciation for this effort and considered his place in the world to be justified, rather than earned.<br />This is an old-fashioned message, but in my opinion it was one that we do well to heed today. How many of us today consider our goods and services and access to intellectual and monetary capital -- much less our political rights -- as things that we must constantly struggle to preserve? How many of us take the time to consider the societies in which we live as dynamic, organic entities that must be studied and understood if we are to appreciate their worth? How often do we undertake even a cursory analysis of the routes we have taken to get to where we are today with an eye toward seriously reforming that which needs changed and preserving that which makes society strong?<br />Some might find the author's insistence that mass society must defer to a group of elites repugnant and of course if the idea is embraced simplistically it is just that. But if one is prodded by Ortega y Gasset's demand for a radical commitment to building society, he will quite possibly begin looking at his surroundings and the time in which he lives with a new appreciation and sense of urgency.	2001-03-26
US	52442326	RJMY7S5ZDHA28	0806509023	82094697	Existentialism and Human Emotion (A Philosophical Library Book)	Books	5	97	99	N	Y	Precise formulation	Those not wishing to slog through some of Sartre's weightier work will find &quot;Existentialism and Human Emotions&quot; a very useful statement and summation of the principles of Sartre's beliefs. More than half a century after existentialism came to the fore, I, for one, find the ideas as compelling as ever.<br />Sartre shows on the one hand that existentialism was a movement born out of the rejection of ideology. Ideas that come packaged and defined and handed to the individual for unquestioning acceptance hold no interest for the existentialist. While Sartre makes few, if any, explicit references to the disastrous totalitarian mass movements that gave rise to World War II, it's clear that these -- along with organized religion -- are his targets.<br />The core of Sartre's analysis lies in his assertion that &quot;existence precedes essence.&quot; Every other piece of existentialism flows from this idea that Man, at birth, is a being for whom nothing is determined. Man, Sartre argues, creates the story that becomes his life through living, pure and simple.<br />From this it follows that all of our lives are shaped by choice. Another of Sartre's famous contentions emerges from the book, that even if one does nothing, that in itself is a choice. Man cannot escape that responsibility for his actions. There is, as Sartre was to famously and dramatically delineate later, &quot;no exit.&quot;<br />For me, the most important idea in the book is that it convincingly refutes the shallow attack often leveled at existentialism: that it is dressed-up nihilism. Sartre shows that the existentialists do not reject meaning; they simply insist that there is no a priori meaning. In fact, in their rejection of ideology and determinism, the existentialists embrace meaning, for what is meaning unless it is that which one discovers on his own, through his own questing?<br />You can read this book in a couple of hours. For some of us, though, its material has given us a lifetime of things to think about.	2001-02-17
US	52442326	R1BT9QODBNBGNJ	0825671892	470025973	The John Coltrane Companion: Five Decades of Commentary (Companion Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid but a bit unfocused	This is a generally useful book for those interested in Coltrane's relatively brief life and musical career, although those already familiar with the saxophonist will find few surprises.<br />The book gathers together interviews, reminiscences, and critical commentary, as well as discographic and bibliographic references. Of the interviews, one of the best, for me, was a relatively brief one conducted with Bob Thiele, Coltrane's producer at Impulse Records. Thiele speaks in understated, yet moving tones of his relationship with Coltrane and makes clear the admiration he felt for the musician without being in the least bit sentimental. Joe Goldberg, a longtime admirer of Coltrane who became critical of the challenging material Coltrane produced late in his life, also offers a balanced view of the music. Peter Watrous's 1987 retrospective on Coltrane does a nice job of putting Coltrane's career in perspective and convincingly making the argument that Coltrane's music was as compelling 20 years after his death as it was when he was alive.<br />Another strength of the book are the sections that offer detailed information on each Coltrane release from the three major labels for which he recorded: Prestige, Atlantic and Impulse. Less useful, however, is the discography, which is a selected list. Why not just list everything? <br />Another weakness lies in the organization, or lack thereof. Sure, the book is divided into critical commentary, Coltrane in his own words, the releases, and so on. But some of the material is repetitive. Comments about his time with Monk, Miles, his practicing regimen, and so on crop up in the same language in different articles. Quotes and stories are recycled as well. Editor Woideck would have done well to consider a more thematic approach and to find some unifying thread that would better tie the material together. <br />Coltrane himself probably revealed why efforts to chronicle his life have been fairly difficult. As his musical stature andinfluence grew, he became less and less concerned with what was said about his music. He simply wanted people to listen. He was as sparing with his words as he was prolific with his notes. We're all probably best served by getting his music and listening rather than reading about him. Still, those of us who want to know as much as we can about his genius can find nuggets in books such as this.	2001-02-02
US	52442326	R2DHF1S934EK0D	0060927240	341562000	Rule of the Bone: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tripped-out Holden Caulfield	This is a bold novel. Banks undertakes to duplicate the voice of an aimless, drugged-out, disaffected youth named Chappie who comes to refer to himself as &quot;The Bone.&quot; While the effort could have fallen completely flat, Banks succeeds in creating an authentic character whose voice sounds authentic, and we come to care about him by novel's end.<br />Banks captures the angst of teenage life without sounding preachy, and most important, he never condescends in crafting his main character. Bone is confused and often hostile, but Banks manages to infuse him with humanity. Unlike many novels about adolescents, Banks isn't interested in getting his protagonist to a predefined destination. Bone doesn't clearly understand who he's supposed to be and he's nearly completely free of a conventional sense of morality.<br />The novel turns on Bone's introduction to a homeless girl named Rose and the mystical Jamaican, the &quot;I-Man,&quot; who takes Bone under his wing while the two of them share a trailer in the woods. Through Rose, we see Bone's essential humanity emerge as he struggles to provide her an island of safety in a hostile world.<br />Indeed, the world in which Banks' hero dwells is an inhospitable one, and the novelist never shies away from that fact. The feel-good platitudes often tossed around about family life, school, community and the like are shattered by the depiction of Bones' world. Only by personal acts of kindness, Banks seems to say, can a person be redeemed. <br />Banks' picaresque and coming-of-age work invites comparison to &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; and to &quot;Huckleberry Finn,&quot; as others have noted, but I would add that the sensibility of Charles Dickens also permeates the book. Dickens relentlessly pointed out how dangerous was the world in which children dwell. Banks echoes that concern even as his drugged-out, punk hero bears little resemblance to the waifs of Dickens' work.<br />A fascinating novel by a strong and individualvoice in modern American literature.	2001-01-05
US	52442326	R3PIW6786G4ZKA	0812904877	236032576	A Time to Die	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Deserves to return to print	The fact that this book is out of print should be seen as a black mark against the conscience -- or lack thereof -- of American society. It indicates that we Americans are again suffering from a sense of collective amnesia; that we have willfully chosen to forget a shameful event in our history: the prison uprising at Attica prison in upstate New York that ended with the undeserved deaths of more than two dozen inmates in 1971.<br />Wicker, a fine journalist who was at the time of the revolt an editorial writer with the New York Times, was one of a group of outsiders summoned to the prison by inmate spokesmen to observe negotiations between the inmates and prison authorities. &quot;A Time to Die&quot; is a detailed account of what he saw during the several-day standoff as he and his colleagues struggled to piece together a settlement that would avoid shedding the blood of the revolting inmates and of the prison guards the inmates had taken hostage during the insurrection.<br />Wicker's analysis lays bare the conditions at Attica that led to the uprising. Dietary and sanitary conditions were far less than adequate; guards were poorly trained and particularly ill-equipped to deal with large numbers of African-American and Latino prisoners; attempts to rehabilitate prisoners or to prepare them for productive life outside the walls of the prison were woefully inadequate; and the labor of the prisoners was exploited for the benefit of the small town in which the institution resided.<br />The blueprint for a tragic ending was mapped early in the violent revolt that sent hundreds of inmates into the prison's D Yard, where they set up an informal society. One of the prison guards was badly injured and died shortly thereafter. From that point on, the inmates' demand for amnesty and for redress of their many grievances met a wall of resistance from prison authorities and ultimately from the governor of New York, Nelson Rockefeller.<br />A measure of Wicker's sympathy clearlylies with the inmates, but he is fair in illuminating the problems facing authorities as well. They were under enormous -- and understandable -- pressure from the families of hostages and from society at large, which demanded a get-tough stance against criminals whose demands for rights outraged a weary post-'60s society ready for a return to &quot;law and order,&quot; as the president of the day, Richard Nixon, had called for.<br />In the end, after many desperate efforts by Wicker and the other observers at compromise, Rockefeller gave into those demands and ordered a full-scale assault on the captured prison yard. Although the inmates were armed with nothing more than crude weapons, 29 were killed and dozens more were seriously injured. Although the State claimed initially that wounds suffered by the hostages were inflicted by the prisoners, subsequent investigations proved otherwise.<br />Most shameful was the post-pacification treatment of the prisoners who survived the attack. They were stripped, made to run a gauntlet of officers who took turns striking them, and several of the uprising's leaders were beaten and tortured in reprisal for their role in the revolt.<br />The book's title comes from the sorrowful observation of one of Wicker's colleagues. After the carnage, Wicker heard the man lament, &quot;I don't know what the hurry was. There is always time to die.&quot;<br />&quot;A Time to Die&quot; is required reading for students of American social history. If it had gone out of print because the abuses that led to Attica were no more, then we as a society should have no complaint. This, of course, is untrue. The conditions that led to the Attica revolt and the abuse of power that settled it should be considered soberly with an eye toward redress. Reading this book is a good place to start that process.	2000-11-28
US	52442326	R3J8BGHHTB8IEE	0807825026	703149587	Radio Free Dixie: Robert F. Williams and the Roots of Black Power	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Required reading in modern American history	Tyson's book focuses a long-overdue spotlight on the career of Robert F. Williams, an overlooked civil rights pioneer who indelibly stamped and shaped the movement during the '50s, '60s and beyond, but who has received precious little exposure, discussion or credit from the mainstream media. &quot;Radio Free Dixie&quot; goes a long way to setting the record straight.<br />The compelling thesis of &quot;Radio Free Dixie&quot; is that the civil rights struggle in the South featured a strong element of armed resistance against the forces of intimidation, led by the Klan, but legitimized by the legal structure of the southern states. Williams, from an early age, rejected the pacifist ideas and practices of Martin Luther King, arguing that blacks would never win their rights, much less any measure of respect until they were willing to demonstrate a willingness to defend themselves with arms. While most of the press and his supposed allies (King included) attempted to portray him as a violent revolutionary bent on overthrowing the government, Tyson convincingly shows that Williams was in fact a true believer in the U.S. constitution and that he never advocated initiating violence. Nor did his aggressive stance come from nowhere. Tyson shows that Williams' own family had a long history of determined and nonpacifist resistance, as did many other black families throughout the South.<br />This is also a stirring story of one community's fight against racism. The white community of Williams' Monroe, N.C. did everything it could to stop his efforts to integrate the town, but despite this, Williams built an extraordinary local chapter of the NAACP that relentlessly exposed the injustices daily heaped on blacks, even when the NAACP itself was refusing to recognize the activities of the chapter.<br />Tyson's book deserves accolades for exposing another layer of the complex history of the civil rights movement. The book is well-written and researched and full of genuine, yet balanced respect for its subject. A must-read for students of the civil rights movement and those searching for a real profile in courage.	2000-10-23
US	52442326	RNUJMJNY8GWCK	0684853868	896219190	The Last Picture Show (Thalia)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Rock solid portrayal of small town life	McMurtry's large body of work contains mostly fine novels mixed in with a clunker or two. &quot;The Last Picture Show&quot; was the first one that I read, and it remains for me one of this two best, along with &quot;Horseman, Pass By.&quot; <br />It is the story of small-town Texas life in the '50s. Nothing much happens, on the surface at least, in the dusty place that the teenage Sonny, his best-friend Duane, and Jacy, the high school heart throb he secretly lusts after, call home. McMurtry's sharp, clear style brings the town vividly to life: the single theater in town they all frequent, the dusty pool hall presided over by Sam the Lion, the fly-blown diner, the Friday night football games, and the endless adolescent yearning for sex and adventure.<br />Beneath this placid surface, however, McMurtry reveals a community under strain. It cannot retain its young people once they graduate from high school; its women are sexually frustrated and chafe at the restrictions imposed upon them; many of the residents are bored by the sameness of their lives but either see no way or demonstrate no willingness to change them.<br />In the end, this novel offers a bleak vision for the future. Sam the Lion, the most respected member of the community, dies and the light from a picture show flickers in the theater one last time before closing for good, leaving the wind to howl across the prairie, and the characters we have grown to care about scatter like tumbleweed.<br />McMurtry, with this novel, revisits a theme that has wended its way throughout his books: the passing of the Old West and of a small-town way of life he knew as a young man. He was later to resurrect (much less successfully, in my opinion) some of the characters from &quot;The Last Picture Show,&quot; but as is often the case in life, the charm and vitality that these characters possessed as young people vanishes when we meet them as adults.<br />A first-class piece of writing from a reliable and wise voice.	2000-10-18
US	52442326	R3H9F8UHMVWG6E	0394720245	800538326	The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York	Books	5	104	108	N	N	Political power primer	This massive work, published in 1975, is unfortunately just as timely today as it was a quarter century ago. It is the story of Robert Moses, arguably one of the most important and influential men of the second half of the 20th century. He, for better or for worse, gave us our models for the modern highway transportation system and wielded enormous power in the city and state of New York -- without ever being elected to a single public office.<br />At 1,162 pages, Caro's work will undoubtedly always face the charge that it needed editing. But to address large themes, a writer needs to expand, and Caro does, brilliantly for the most part. &quot;The Power Broker&quot; takes on the question of whether democracy in America really works. Using Moses' life as a model, the answer is &quot;no.&quot; Moses began as a passionate believer in reform, a man who wanted to end favoritism and corruption in New York. Yet early on he concluded that to &quot;get things done,&quot; he needed to beat the power-wielders at their own game, and he did. He built an enormous network of influence that included politicians, unions, banks and big business. And he used that power to build the most enormous transportation system in the nation, often over the objections of elected officials.<br />But the book also makes clear the cost of power. For one thing, there were political losers. Moses was ruthless in his attacks on those who opposed him, often lowering himself to attacking character. Mass transportation was a loser during the time Moses wielded power. He considered the automobile the premier mode of transportation, and he steadfastly refused to accommodate plans for subway, bus, and train improvements. And the poor and working class were losers in Moses' power game. He had no respect for the poor, particularly those with dark skin, and he ruthlessly destroyed their neighborhoods in his grand building schemes.<br />In the end, we have all lost because of Moses' vision. His idea that we cansolve transportation problems by building more and more roads, bridges and infrastructure to accommodate commuters who live farther and farther from the places they work has carried the day, and those of us who live in medium-sized and big cities continue to suffer for it with every minute we lose in traffic.<br />Tremendous book -- grand in its vision, grand in its documentation, grand in its achievement.	2000-10-18
US	52442326	R2BZV82TK1WCS5	0252062825	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Prairie State Books)	Books	5	55	56	N	N	Powerful urban realism	Farrell's groundbreaking work is perhaps the best example of American  naturalism that we have. It is the story of the rather brief life of the  working class Irish protagonist, Studs, who grows up and comes to manhood  on the South Side of Chicago. Studs lives through poverty and the  Depression, but not without paying a terrible psychic price. Through a  relentless piling up of detail, Farrell is able to convincingly present his  thesis, that social, political, cultural, and most of all economic forces  conspire to decisively shape human character and choice.<br />The novel  unflinchingly portrays the violence, chauvanism, and racism that pervades  the lives of Studs and his friends. They despise those more privileged than  themselves, have complete contempt for women, and fiercely distrust anyone  from outside their neighborhood, particularly those with a different skin  color. They wear their toughness with pride and have no patience for  expressions of sensitivity or remorse.<br />Yet from the opening chapter,  Farrell takes pains to show that the young Lonigan is not immune to  feelings of tenderness and even love. His portrayal of Studs' romantic  adolescent longing for Lucy is convincing and touching, and the author's  presentation of it early in the book makes more convincing his  documentation of Studs' progressively hardening view of life.<br />Another key  element of the trilogy is its sketching of a character increasingly dwarfed  by forces beyond his control and understanding. In one key scene, Studs,  close to despair as he feels his life slipping away from him, stands by the  shores of Lake Michigan and watches the waves pound against the rocks. It's  a beautifully naturalistic scene: Farrell uses the images of real life to  create symbols of Studs' feelings of helplessness in a world he doesn't  understand.<br />The trilogy is primarily about loss. Farrell, I believe, felt  that it was difficult for boys like Studs to escape their fate, but he didnot feel it was impossible. What was required was character of a sterner  stuff than Studs possessed. Studs comes to stand for a generation that  wasted its potential on alcohol, petty crime, and on a foolish pursuit of  the quick buck. Where imagination was required to dream up a world  different than the one to which he was born, Studs settled for the here and  now, and it cost him dearly.<br />&quot;Studs Lonigan&quot; takes the reader  into a world that Farrell knew firsthand. He makes you live in the world of  doomed youth and refuses to pull any punches, right up until the last page  has been turned.	2000-09-12
US	52442326	R3HQH7CS0DOAHO	0684864185	505379162	Manchild in the Promised Land	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Convincing story of an American life	&quot;Manchild in the Promised Land&quot; is a rare achievement: an  autobiography written in clear, lucid prose without an ounce of self-pity,  self-justification, or moralizing. While Claude Brown's life was difficult,  dangerous, and violent, and he shows all of that in unflinching detail, he  also recalls much of his childhood with pleasure and a good measure of  pride that he survived. <br />Most of all, for me, Brown's memoir is filled  with regret for the many from his Harlem neighborhood who died, victims of  crime, poverty, alcoholism and drug addiction. Indeed, one could say that  one of the major characters of his story is heroin, which Brown describes  as the scourge of his generation. The power of heroin to destroy is most  poignantly described in Brown's recounting of his relationship with his  younger brother. Claude took his responsibilities as an older brother  seriously, but his younger brother fell victim to addiction, and Brown was  forced to admit that he had lost him.<br />As the book develops, an  interesting change occurs in Brown's narrative voice. In the early stages,  he describes with a defiant pride his wild exploits as a child and  adolescent, which landed him in juvenile homes, and nearly got him killed.  As he describes himself getting older and he eventually leaves Harlem,  Brown's voice takes on a mixture of affection and regret as he talks about  going back to the neighborhood and seeing old friends, many of whom had  fallen on hard times. <br />In the end, Brown's story is one of achievement.  While he escapes the poverty of his youth, he refuses to forget his roots.  In this sense, &quot;Manchild&quot;'s spiritual descendant is Sandra  Cisneros' great novella, &quot;The House on Mango Street,&quot; whose main  character realizes that one must &quot;go away to come back.&quot; Brown  forges an inspirational story that overcomes despair in its power to shape  memory and find meaning in a difficult life.	2000-09-12
US	52442326	R2HSOULTLN0G0Q	0679736379	385024829	Sophie's Choice	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Intricate, terrifying, and masterful	Styron's book is a modern masterpiece, a profound meditation on the central evil of the century just passed. Through its three central  characters -- the doomed lovers, Nathan and Sophie, and naive yet  good-hearted narrator, Stingo -- Styron shows how the horror of the  concentration camps carried the power to blight lives even after the war to  defeat Hitler's fascism had ended.<br />A good portion of this densely  constructed novel shows Styron's deep exploration of the hatred and  disregard for human life that motivated the construction of the  concentration camps and the Nazis' pursuit of a &quot;Final Solution,&quot;  one that would rid the earth of not only Jews but all those who would  oppose their hateful philosophy. The awful conflict that is at the heart of  the novel's title arises from the fascists' debasement of life, which  Styron is able to bring painfully to life.<br />For me, though, the novel  achieves greatness in its intricate weaving of stories, memories and  meditations by its narrator. If you open the book expecting to hear only  about Sophie, you'll be surprised. Stingo, newly arrived to post-war  Brooklyn from the South, shares painful memories of his invalid mother,  hilariously relates stories of failed romance, and poignantly demonstrates  his bond with his father. As the pages pass and the stories mount, you  realize that Styron is building an elaborate story that ultimately details  the passage of a young man into adulthood.<br />This is a great novel. It is  challenging and at times difficult in the emotional material it presents  and in the complexity of Styron's elaborately ornate prose. The reader  coming on it for the first time should not be discouraged by any of that.  There's no timetable on how long it should take to complete reading a  novel. No matter how long it takes, having finished it, you will come away  with your life enriched.	2000-08-07
US	52442326	R1DZTNF9J85RX1	0140062238	299585985	Deep Blues: A Musical and Cultural History of the Mississippi Delta	Books	5	89	93	N	N	Fantastic effort	Palmer's love of the blues shines through in this exceptional book. He's not interested in showing off his knowledge of the form (although that knowledge is exceptional); he's interested in illuminating for the reader  the roots of a great indigenous art form and how that form developed in the  20th century. In that effort, he succeeds masterfully.<br />A fine early  section explores how the music that we call the blues was seeded in N.  America by African music. That chapter is a mini-history lesson in itself;  Palmer shows how the music of slaves from W. Africa was viewed as  subversive and dangerous by whites in the new land. <br />The remainder of the  book is chock full of portraits of the heroes of early blues in the  Mississippi Delta, from Charley Patton to Son House to Robert Johnson to  Little Walter to Muddy Waters and beyond. Palmer shows how these men  developed a music that grew directly out of the soil of the Delta, making  do with the instruments they had and often living itinerant lives, moving  from tiny town to tiny town to play dances and juke joints to keep the  music alive. <br />The book also describes the historic migration of  African-Americans from the Deep South to the industrial cities of the  North, most importantly, of course, Chicago, where the musicians  transformed the blues again, creating the electrified sounds that exerted  such a powerful influence on white rock musicians from London to Liverpool  to La Jolla, California.<br />Palmer has given us a great work with &quot;Deep  Blues,&quot; one that should be read by students of music and social  history alike. It deserves a prominent place on the bookshelf of any  serious lover of music.	2000-08-01
US	52442326	R2KNDY4N4PEVMT	0452276926	636928676	Seven Guitars	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Musical language	Although not quite on a par with &quot;Fences&quot; or &quot;The Piano Lesson,&quot; Wilson's story of a blues musician and his companions in the late '40s is still a compelling read. As usual, he creates music in the  language of his characters, all of whom are distinctly drawn.<br />&quot;Seven  Guitars&quot; recounts the fate of a Pittsburgh blues musician, Floyd  &quot;Schoolboy&quot; Barton, who scores a hit record in Chicago, but falls  short of capitalizing on his success, either with his music, or with his  on-again, off-again love, Vera. Along the way, we meet his musician  friends, Canewell and Red, his crusty neighbor Louise, the seductive young  visitor Ruby, and the mysterious Hedley, who orates on Marcus Garvey,  Ethiopia and Buddy Bolden while he goes about his job butchering chickens  for sale on the streets of Pittsburgh.<br />The play's vibrancy springs not  only from the characters' plain-spoken poetry, but from Wilson's knowledge  of blues, folk legends, superstitions and from his vivid recreation in  print of a particular place: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which he has managed  to turn into a place of literary myth. <br />As in &quot;Fences&quot; and in  his play set in the '60s, &quot;Two Trains Running&quot; Wilson relies  strongly on a character verging on and descending into madness. In  &quot;Seven Guitars,&quot; it's Hedley, and the way you feel about the play  will be determined in part by your reaction to this character and how  Wilson uses him. For me, Hedley's motivation was a bit too murky, and his  most important act at the end of the play did not mesh well with the  motivation Wilson developed for Floyd, the ambitious bluesman. Because of  this problem, &quot;Seven Guitars&quot; lacks the powerful thematic punch  of &quot;Fences&quot; and &quot;The Piano Lesson.&quot;<br />Still, this play  makes a fine addition to Wilson's dramatic cycle that explores  African-American life through the twentieth century. The play confirms his  placeas one of the great voices in the American theater.	2000-06-08
US	52442326	R2DNZ1VJ7I8OTS	0802130917	863357192	Glengarry Glen Ross: A Play	Books	4	36	42	N	N	Savage work	&quot;Glengarry Glen Ross&quot; shows off to great effect the power of Mamet's language. Some readers may focus on the profanity -- and there is plenty of it -- but the profanity only serves to underscore the  overwhelming anger that drives the characters in the play. Mamet's  characters are bit players on a stage dominated by cockroach capitalism.  It's a world that measures a man's worth solely by his ability to turn a  buck, and if he can't do it, he's worthless. The characters know this, and  they rail against this knowledge in venom-filled, machine-gun bursts of  words.<br />Beyond the anger, however, the language derives its power from  Mamet's much-discussed use of everyday rhythmic patterns of speech.  Characters interrupt one another, leave thoughts unsaid, toss out cryptic  ideas, and finish one another's sentences. It all sounds and feels  absolutely real, and if you've ever tried to do it yourself, you know how  difficult it is for a playwright to accomplish it.<br />In the end, Mamet's  play presents a bleak world, yet it's a refreshing antidote to the  cheerleading from the press and elsewhere that American business generally  enjoys today. Mamet reveals the dark corners of small-time business, the  petty jealousies, the insincere work relationships, the undisguised  chauvanism, the phony macho posturing, and most of all the clear  understanding among all concerned that the only measure of worth is the  mark in the ledgerbook that says you made a sale. If most of the characters  sound unsatisfied, it's because they are. Selling, the play says, is a hard  way to make a living, and it comes at enormous spiritual cost.<br />I found  the play's ending (which I won't give away) a bit unsatisfying and I can  imagine that some readers might find the repitition in the dialogue  tedious. Still, there is no denying, in my mind, the power of Mamet's  vision and his devotion to his technique.	2000-06-07
US	52442326	R1AA25157GTVMB	0060812486	919638883	The Outsider (Perennial Library)	Books	3	21	32	N	N	Too much ideological baggage	When I read this novel for the first time, as a young man exploring existential ideas, I was enthralled by it. I still feel that for younger readers trying to understand existentialism, &quot;The Outsider&quot; isn't  a bad place to start. As a piece of literature, however, it is badly  flawed, a novel too heavily freighted with ideas to maintain interest over  400-plus pages.<br />It's the story of a young intellectual, Cross Damon,  caught in a dead-end postal job and in a series of family, romantic and  financial problems. Wright does a fine job in the first sections of the  novel capturing Cross's sense of purposelessness and dread. Indeed, when  Wright sticks to describing what is going on in his protagonist's life, the  book moves along nicely.<br />In later stages of the novel, however, after  Cross has received an opportunity to remake his life -- to live out his  life according to his own free choices -- the novel bogs down as Wright  becomes more interested in illuminating philosophical ideas than in  convincingly developing his characters. At one point, Wright has Cross  engage in a nearly 20-page speech to a roomful of communists and assorted  intellectuals. By the end of it, they, like the reader, are presumably  asleep.<br />&quot;The Outsider&quot; borrows heavily from Camus's much more  successful and compelling work, &quot;The Stranger,&quot; which takes about  a quarter of the pages Wright required in his novel to make the existential  case. One senses that Wright, who hung out in Paris with Camus, Sartre and  other French intellectuals, was anxious in &quot;The Outsider&quot; to show  much he had learned. That's a shame, because anyone who has read  &quot;Black Boy,&quot; &quot;Native Son,&quot; or &quot;Twelve Million  Black Voices&quot; knows that Wright had plenty to teach his  companions.<br />In the end, &quot;The Outsider&quot; is best ignored if you  are looking for a memorable literary experience. If you are interested in  Wright's journeyas a writer and/or in the ideas of existentialism, give it  a shot.	2000-06-07
US	52442326	R1M37ZY1HVEJ84	0151047723	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	5	39	45	N	N	The best work of modern American fiction	Calling anything &quot;the best&quot; is a dicey proposition, but in my opinion, this magnificent novel deserves the billing. I've read it more than a few times, and it has never failed to deliver an emotional punch,  and Warren's poetic prose has never failed to lose its luster.<br />On one  level, of course, &quot;All the King's Men&quot; is a fictionalized account  of the life of Huey Long, the machine politician who rose to state and  national prominence as the iron-fisted governor of Louisiana, a man strong  enough to seriously offer FDR a challenge in the '30s before his (Long's)  assassination. As a hard-nosed political novel, &quot;All the King's  Men&quot; delivers the goods. Warren's Willie Stark develops absolutely  believably from a laughably naive idealist to a ruthless politician who has  convinced himself that the political ends justify the brutal means.<br />But  beyond this, Warren's novel is a profound meditation on the limits of power  and the nature of our understanding of the world. Its narrator, Jack  Burden, is one of the most complex creations in American fiction, a man at  once supremely self-assured and wracked by the most essential of doubts  about himself. On the one hand, Jack, who becomes Willie's number-one  assistant, is as hard edged a realist as his boss. On the other, he is a  wounded romantic, lamenting a long-lost love and the disappearance of a  world that offered the simple pleasures of boyhood and none of the  ambiguities a complex world in which nothing -- politically, socially, or  romantically -- is as it seems.<br />Finally, the novel is a voyage of  self-discovery for Jack, and in this, &quot;All the King's Men&quot;  continues the great tradition in Western literature we trace back to  Oedipus. The novel explores the fundamental theme of self-identity, as  Sophocles did, and it succeeds brilliantly in creating a complex,  multi-layered story that achieves its thematic goal.<br />There is really no  describing the richness of the experience you will find if you read this  novel, but be forewarned that it is a novel that demands much. If you are  willing to submit to the experience, Warren's great work will reward you  many times over.	2000-05-30
US	52442326	R3FHL7A19DBJGZ	0671754998	579606305	Horseman, Pass By	Books	5	23	27	N	N	A sign of great things to come	McMurtry's first novel is a spare, eloquent evocation of thepassing of the Old West. In its description of the decline and deathof an old rancher, it paints a vivid picture of life on a Texas cattle ranch in the '50s; in his narrator, the teenage grandson of the old rancher, McMurtry captures a voice that gains wisdom with each turn of the page.<br />The novel inspired the Hollywood film &quot;Hud,&quot; but McMurtry's work is much the more resonant and disturbing. Woven into the fabric of the novel is the theme of racism, which the movie skirted. Also missing from the film is the sense of melancholy that pervades the book. In the old rancher, Homer Bannon, and in Jesse, the cowboy with wanderlust, McMurtry paints portraits of good, hardworking men who know that their time has passed, to be usurped by the violent Hud, a new kind of Western businessman whose main goal is to make a buck in any way possible.<br />Lonnie's longing to see the world that lies outside the boundary of his grandfather's ranch creates another strain of sadness in the book. McMurtry's descriptions of the wide, open prairies and the ache that these vistas create in the young man are superbly drawn and leanly poetic.<br />McMurtry's economy of language is accompanied by dozens of sharp-eyed observations of rural and small-town life. And in the black maid Halmea, he creates a genuinely sympathetic character who also helps to expose the conflicts within the narrator. While Lonnie likes Halmea immensely, he can not help but see her also as a sexual object.  While at times his late adolescent longings are amusing, the conflict comes into sharp relief when Halmea is sexually attacked by Hud, an act observed by Lonnie. In Hud's brutal sexual gratification, Lonnie recognizes a piece of himself.<br />This is a great American novel, one that presaged the many later successes of McMurtry, one of the great contributors to the literature of the modern West.	2000-05-30
US	52442326	R2FN4GKP76BRBU	0452260302	940938089	The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop.	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Baseball and Mythology	Like Malamud's &quot;The Natural,&quot; Coover's &quot;The Universal Baseball Association&quot; uses baseball to explore mythology, religion, and the nature of belief. While Coover manages to successfully incorporate  all of these, however, the novel meets the first command of great  literature: the story stands on its own.<br />The protagonist, J. Henry Waugh,  is one of modern American fiction's great creations, a lonley man who  spends most of his time in a small New York apartment obsessively  ruminating over his great creation: an elaborate dice/board game that  serves as the playing field for his Universal Baseball Assn. Waugh plays a  full season of games, keeps detailed statistics on each player, and fully  documents the history of his league (including the lives and deaths of his  &quot;players&quot;).<br />The novel turns on Henry's (godlike) intervention  into the game's natural course (ruled by the dice) after the death of a  young pitcher in whom he has invested his emotions, hopes and dreams. This  intervention touches off a series of questions about the nature of God,  Man, and Fate. None of these discussions are divorced from the fabric of  the story, however. Throughout, our eyes are clearly on Henry, as he slowly  deteriorates mentally, the &quot;game&quot; becoming far more real than  &quot;real life.&quot;<br />This is a superb book. It will naturally appeal to  baseball lovers, but those who don't give two figs about baseball will be  caught up in Coover's sophisticated storytelling and will be impressed by  his flawless narrative control and his ability to transcend the immediate  subject of the novel.	2000-05-18
US	52442326	R192DQ5QA3TWQZ	0156941767	670344200	A Walker in the City	Books	5	64	66	N	N	A demanding read that rewards the effort	One of the most respected literary critics this country has produced, Kazin made a significant contribution to the literature of the American immigrant with &quot;Walker in the City.&quot; This demanding autobiography  of his youth in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn vividly recreates the  life of pre-Depression and Depression Jews for whom Manhattan, though just  miles away, represented a faraway land filled with mystery and fear.<br />It  is the world outside of Brownsville that looms over the book and the spirit  of its narrator. Kazin successfully captures the yearning for new  experiences that filled his heart as he grew up in the streets. It was that  yearning that led him to the public library and ultimately across the  bridges and out of the Brooklyn borough. It was also that yearning that  made him wonder about a world that was not filled with Jews.<br />The mystery  of the lands that lay beyond Brownsville's streets fills the book with a  sense of tension. We can almost feel the young Kazin's heart burst as he  begins to sense the vastness of the world. &quot;Beyond! Beyond!&quot; the  narrator shouts, and prose turns into poetry in many passages of the book  as he seeks to express the mixture of fear and exhiliration stirring within  him.<br />One chapter, &quot;The Kitchen,&quot; has been frequently  anthologized, and rightfully so. It is a meditation on the room in which  his mother spent much of her time working on the sewing she took in to make  extra money. In the end, his mother's constant pounding on the foot treadle  of the sewing machine comes to the author to represent the fire burning  within her -- to achieve, to make a better life for her son, to survive in  a strange new land where this exiled Jewish woman is once again a  stranger.<br />This is a great book that deserves a vast readership. Though  not a novel, it takes its place next to &quot;The Rise of David  Levinsky&quot; and &quot;Call It Sleep&quot; as a masterpiece of immigrant  and Jewish/American literature.	2000-05-05
US	52442326	R3N8KXCT10J2R9	0809321890	837587643	My Baseball Diary (Writing Baseball)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Welcome back to the fold	After years of searching secondhand stores for &quot;My Baseball Diary,&quot; I was delighted to find it back in print after a long hiatus. Farrell takes off his novelist's hat and delivers a straightforward homage to the game. Unlike George Will and others who have exhibited an  unfortunate tendency to overanalyze baseball and lace their writing with  social commentary, Farrell reminds us that we attach ourselves to the game  as kids, and forever after our love for it comes from childhood.<br />Most  remarkable are Farrell's clear and unadorned memories of the White Sox  games that he saw as a boy growing up on the South Side of Chicago. He  devotes a great chapter to detailing a no-hit game he saw pitched by Ed  Walsh, one of his many childhood heroes. You feel with him the mounting  excitement as Walsh approached recording the final out of his gem.<br />Farrell also brings vividly to life the 1917 White Sox, the &quot;No-Hit  Wonders,&quot; who batted just .228 as a team but who went on to win the  World Series handily. His admiration for the team is plain (and he writes  convincingly of the strengths of individuals on it), but he doesn't back  away from expressing the disappointment the infamous 1919 team delivered  him. At the same time, we get from Farrell the point made much later by  Eliot Asinof in &quot;Eight Men Out&quot;: that owner Charles Comiskey's  economic abuse of the team contributed to the decision to throw the  Series.<br />Fans of the White Sox will appreciate the portraits of Ray  Schalk, Eddie Collins, Joe Jackson, Buck Weaver, Nick Altrock and many  others. Farrell shows he was a close observor of the nuances of the game  from a young age and never slips into mere idolatry.<br />Overall the book is  a fine evocation of baseball when the game and its players were more  tightly integrated into the communities it served and fascinated. Farrell  turns his writer's eye to the past and returns with memories bathed in the  light of childhood.	2000-05-03
US	52442326	R1EHY7UGF49GC	0394700953	186740079	The Age of Reform	Books	5	67	71	N	N	An indispensable and enduring work	It's not every book that can change one's thinking about a political movement and a period in history, but Hofstadter's book did just that for me when I first read it many years ago. It's an incisive critique of the  populist and progressive movements that sprang up in the last quarter of  the 19th century and exerted strong influence on American politics until  the onset of World War I. But Hofstadter's great achievement is that he  sets both these movements in historical perspective, showing us that no  movement flowers without roots.<br />Hofstadter is at his best in revealing  that the populist movement played -- and preyed -- on the longing of  Americans for a pastoral, agrarian past that was ironically little more  than myth by the end of Reconstruction. In an increasingly industrial,  urban America, the populists were able to set themselves up as downtrodden  victims of various villians, chief among them the railroads and the  banks.<br />Yet Hofstadter convincingly argues that the farmers of the West  were eager to become businessmen in the boom years following the Civil War,  when land and capital were cheap. It was not until they were battered by  the economic slumps that are an inevitable part of a market economy that  the agrarian movement began demanding government intervention to reign in  capital and portraying agriculture as especially worthy of special  attention.<br />The populist's appeal to the little man, dwarfed by powers  beyond his control, played well in some segments of the U.S., but  Hofstadter portrays a darker side of populism, exposing its anti-foreign  and anti-Semitic leanings. Reading about the populist's railings against  foreigners and their dark hints of conspiracy by vast economic and  political powers, I heard echoes of the speeches of Pat Buchanan.<br />As for  the progressives, the urban reformers who overlapped to some extent with  the populists, Hofstadter cogently points out that this middle class  movement was in large part a reaction to the growing influence of  immigrants in large American cities. The middle class, he argues, was  feeling squeezed between the waves of immigrants, who were increasingly  catered to by machine politicians, and the new and enormously rich  industrial class. The progressive movement was an attempt to wrest back  some measure of political strength by undercutting the power of the bosses  with &quot;good government&quot; and to reign in the economic clout of the  industrialists through reform.<br />This is required reading for the student  of American history. We have produced few historians who match the stature  and achievement of Hofstadter, and this book is one of his best.	2000-05-01
US	52442326	RED2Y0IZYU0PF	0060914165	393219968	The Boys of Summer	Books	5	88	91	N	N	Great book -- period	While it's tempting to say simply that is the best baseball book ever written (I happen to think that it is), such a statement would do a disservice to the book. It's a great book -- period. <br />Kahn's memoir of his life in Brooklyn and in the world beyond is really three books in one.  First, it's an evocative story of growing up in the '30s and '40s in an  intellectually challenging household that somehow (much to his mother's  disgust) centered around the exasperating study of the Brooklyn Dodgers.  <br />Second, it's the tale of a young writer who at an astonishingly young  age found himself covering the team he loved during two bittersweet seasons  ('52 and '53) that ended in agonizing seven-game World Series losses to  (who else?) the New York Yankees.<br />Third, it's the story of how this  no-longer-young writer went back to find the Boys of Summer long after  their careers had ended. This is the most poignant section of the book:  Kahn's finely etched portraits of the heroes of his youth, now ordinary men  leading ordinary (but compelling) lives.<br />What sets this book apart from  the vast majority of books written about baseball (sports in general,  really) is Kahn's respect for his subjects. Jackie Robinson, Pee Wee Reese,  Carl Erskine, Duke Snider, Roy Campanella, et al., emerge as  three-dimensional characters capable of heroism and strong-willed  determination as well as bitterness.<br />To recount the individual stories  contained in this book even briefly would not do justice to the book or to  its subjects. It's a book best savored slowly, allowing its resonance to  work its magic. The story of a vanished world and a vanished team,  &quot;The Boys of Summer&quot; recreates both so vividly that between its  pages, neither will ever die.	2000-04-27
US	52442326	R1EI4H6KIC6CDQ	1556523688	965521373	The World Don't Owe Me Nothing: The Life and Times of Delta Bluesman Honeyboy Edwards	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A great American life	This autobiography succeeds memorably on several levels. Told in spare, moving words, it provides a vivid picture of life in the Mississippi Delta long before the civil rights movements of the '50s. In addition, it's a  kind of African-American &quot;On the Road,&quot; told from the perspective  of one who crisscrossed the Southern United States, scuffling to make a  living playing the blues. And finally, it's a terrific history of the  blues, told by a man who made a significant musical contribution himself  and who played with nearly all the essential artists of the '30s and  on.<br />Edwards, born in the Delta around 1915, worked the fields as a kid  before he learned to play the guitar and began hoboing around the South. He  rode the rails, played in innumerable small towns, and polished his craft.  Along the way, he hung out and played with the likes of Sunnyland Slim, Big  Walter Horton, Little Walter Jacobs, Robert Junior Lockwood, Muddy Waters,  B.B. King and yes, Robert Johnson. The book describes how these architects  of the modern blues passed songs, licks, and stories back and forth,  keeping a form that relies so heavily on tradition dynamic and vital.<br />A  major strength of the book is Edwards' distinctive voice, transcribed by  his collaborators to retain its distinctive rhythms and dialect. The book's  title sums up his attitude. His memories include violent death, physical  and emotional loss, and great material want. Still, you sense strongly that  he wouldn't have had his life any other way. His narrative is devoid of  self-pity, but it never glosses over the difficulty of the times he  endured, which included stints in prison.<br />The book concludes with useful  appendices that define key terms and offer capsule biographies and  discographies of musicians Edwards encountered. A good bibliography is also  included. Highly recommended for those interested in the blues and in  American social history. Great read.	2000-04-21
US	52442326	R1N1OAY0RXFEA1	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Indispensable lesson in American history	&quot;Parting the Waters&quot; brings vividly to life one of the most essential chapters in American history: the arduous struggles of African-Americans between 1954 and 1963 to secure the civil rights denied to them by nearly a century of organized opposition of the states and  indifference on the part of the federal government.<br />The book succeeds  brilliantly on many levels: as a biography of Martin Luther King, Jr., it  captures the greatness of the man without cleansing him of flaws. As a  political primer, it de-romanticizes the Kennedy administration, portraying  John and his brother Robert as hard-nosed realists who were not unwilling  to turn their backs on the civil rights movement if they felt that support  would endanger their chances of re-election. As a People's history, it pays  detailed homage to the foot soldiers who fought in the backwaters of  Alabama, Mississippi and Georgia to dismantle the mountain of segregation.  Men and women whom you may never have heard of will capture your  imagination: James Bevel, Diane Nash, Septima Clark, Robert Moses, James  Lawson, and Charles Sherrod, to name but a few who literally risked their  lives to force America to live up to its ideals of equality of opportunity.  And to those who would congratulate America on its successes in the field  of civil rights, it offers a telling antidote to that self-congratulation  in its recounting of J. Edgar Hoover's FBI's determined opposition to King  and its tireless efforts to discredit him and the movement.<br />Most of all,  however, &quot;Parting the Waters&quot; reaffirms for me that great history  is the province of the writer, not of the video documentarian. Some great  filmwork has been done on this era: &quot;Eyes on the Prize&quot; and Spike  Lee's &quot;Four Little Girls&quot; come to mind, as do film biographies of  King, such as &quot;Martin Luther King: An Amazing Grace.&quot; But the  problem with film is that it inevitably reduces the civil rights struggle  to a series of great moments of high drama, leaving the impression that the  road to victory was inevitable, despite the obstacles. Branch's book, on  the other hand, at times leaves you wondering whether the victories in  Birmingham, Montgomery and elsewhere would ever be achieved, even when you  know the outcome. It never shrinks from emphasizing the rifts within the  movement itself, the daunting indifference of most of society, the doubts  that plagued King himself, the hard compromises that had to be made, and  the demoralizing defeats that were suffered in places like Albany, Georgia.  <br />This is first-rate work, an epic history and a story that accomplishes  the paradoxical task of simultaneously stirring pride in this country's  accomplishments and shame at the fact that the task to achieve the  victories had to be undertaken at all.	2000-04-06
US	52442326	R2U9I82EON1T0T	039470388X	518362081	The Era of Reconstruction 1865-1877	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Essential work on Reconstruction period	Call this effort from the great historian Reconstruction deconstruction. He deconstructs the notion, all too lazily accepted even today, that Reconstruction was a failed political movement, the only accomplishment of  which was pocket-lining by Carpetbaggers from the North.<br />Far from it,  Stampp convincingly argues. While he does not deny that the Radical  Reconstructionists had a political agenda that included punishing the South  and forcing through a pro-industrial, high-tariff program that a populist  South was bound to oppose, he also points out Reconstruction wrought many  positive changes, including bringing the newly freed African-American into  the political process.<br />Stampp also is able to show the social programs  launched by the Reconstructionists under the aegis of the Freedmen's Bureau  were necessary in a South that was all too eager after the war to force  black citizens into a new servitude. For example, the federal officials  were instrumental in monitoring court proceedings in the South, ensuring  that justice was served for all citizens, not just those holding money and  political power.<br />The reasons for Reconstruction's demise have been well  documented, and Stampp does not shy from acknowledging the obvious  instances of corruption and soaring taxes. But he points out that in the  decades following the end of the war, corruption was hardly unique to  southern governments and that tax increases were to be expected in states  and local communities whose infrastructures had been badly damaged by war.<br />Finally, Stampp reminds us, lest we forget, that Reconstruction failed  because of a determined effort by diehard white supremacists and secret  organizations such as the Klan. This effort was best characterized by the  Mississippi Plan of 1875, in which anti-Reconstructionists set out openly  to ensure that black citizens would not make it to the polls to vote. This  perversion of democracy spelled the end until the 1950s, essentially, of  efforts by the U.S. to achieve political and social equality for  blacks.<br />This is essential reading for students of American history. It  represents an important contribution to the literature that illuminates  this country's self-inflicted racial problems.	2000-03-29
US	52442326	R1AO9RAUC8CG4N	0140127615	603106256	Paco's Story (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	First-rate work	&quot;Paco's Story&quot; is an outstanding addition to the canon of fiction about the American soldier's experience in Vietnam. Its additional contribution lies in its exploration of the challenges facing the veteran  upon his return to the U.S. <br />The novel is unsparing in its criticism of a  country that was all to eager to send young men off to fight in a  controversial war in the jungles of Southeast Asia, but not so enthusiastic  about dealing with them when they returned, wounded both physically and  psychically. The novel also presents a world in which the soldiers on both  sides are dehumanized by guerilla warfare and surrender to evil. <br />What is  Paco's story? It's a story of a grunt who survives a firestorm attack that  kills all of his comrades; who clings to life desperately in a hospital far  from home; who returns to the States with a cane and a complex of scars  disfiguring his body; who lives day in and day out with the knowledge that  he lived a life in Vietnam that he can explain to almost no one on the  planet.<br />We see him arrive in a small town via bus, looking for work. We  watch him encounter fellow Americans who haven't a clue about what he has  endured on their behalf and who do not appear to want to know. We return  with him to experience the drudgery and brutality of life in a faraway land  and the horrible day that changed his life forever. We listen to him  commune with the ghosts of the men with whom he fought in  Vietnam.<br />Finally, we see him depart the town as suddenly as he came,  having discovered that a girl upon whom he has spied and fantasized sees  him as a disgusting freak. <br />This is a bitter, eloquent novel that reminds  us that we should never forget the soldiers who paid dearly for their  service to the country. The wounds they suffered overseas should never be  compounded by wounds inflicted by their own countrymen.	2000-03-21
US	52442326	RVRRVDNBIVI87	0140044469	258713018	Stop-Time: A Memoir	Books	5	88	92	N	N	Rich, satisfying memoir	Few autobiographies that I have read match the power of this one. It manages to communicate the loneliness and isolation of youth and young adulthood, yet as a commentator on the book has correctly noted, it is free  of self-pity or sentimentality.<br />Like another great coming-of-age memoir,  Richard Wright's &quot;Black Boy,&quot; Conroy's work is a powerful  rebuttal to romantic evocations of childhood. His was a life of  rootlessness, occasional random (and inexplicable) violence and long  stretches of boredom. Mental illness and instability seemed never to be far  from his doorstep.<br />Conroy doesn't shy away from describing any of this,  or the effects that his difficult home life and environment had on him. In  a powerful early scene, he describes joining in a boarding school attack on  a vulnerable classmate. There are overtones of &quot;Lord of the  Flies,&quot; but the most effective -- and chilling -- quality of his  description of the event is its tone of dispassion. For example, he tells  of eagerly awaiting his chance to get a clean, unmolested shot at the kid,  but then admits that the actual punch was disappointing, not what he  thought it would be. This recitation of events is transmitted to us through  the mind of the boy, not as a narrator who looks back, eager for the chance  to justify or explain his motivation.<br />But &quot;Stop-Time&quot; is  elevated even further by Conroy's ability to capture moments of childhood  magic (even though they are often leavened with disappointment). For  example, there is a great chapter on his sudden obsession with learning how  to do tricks with a yo-yo; another memorable sequence of scenes describes  the uninhibited pleasure of driving bumper cars and partaking of a  carnival's tawdry pleasures. Still, at the end of the carnival sequence,  Conroy injects a note of menace, a recurring technique that emphasizes a  key theme of the book: children, even in their happiest moments, are always  moving toward theshadowy and dangerous landscape of adulthood.<br />There are  far too may great sections of this book to do it justice in a brief review.  Suffice it to say that &quot;Stop-Time&quot; will deliver bittersweet  pleasures, no matter how many times the reader returns to it.	2000-03-17
US	52442326	RN85BH6PEOMYJ	0060812486	919638883	The Outsider (Perennial Library)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Useful as a novel of ideas	&quot;The Outsider&quot; is Wright's exploration of existentialism, which he became interested in while hanging out in France with Sartre, Camus and  others. As a novel of ideas, it's a useful work for readers beginning to  investigate existentialism. As literature, however, it's a heavy-handed,  didactic exercise.<br />Like Camus' &quot;The Stranger,&quot; Wright's work  attacks the question of existential freedom: where does Man go if he cuts  himself free from traditional moorings such as religion, family, political  ideology? A worthy subject, but where &quot;The Stranger&quot; forces us to  deal with the questions by considering the protagonist's actions, with  little or no authorial intervention, Wright feels compelled far too often  to intercede as narrator and explain the problem. This leads to him putting  speeches in the mouths of his characters.<br />A further problem occurs when  Wright places his main character, Cross Damon, in the middle of an  ideological battle between the Communist Party and a &quot;fascist&quot;  landlord of the apartment into which Damon has moved. This plot device is  Wright's attempt to deal with his own estrangement from the Communist  Party, which he detailed in the essay &quot;The God That Failed.&quot;  <br />Damon's rejection of the Communists further freights the novel with  ideological baggage. Wright actually has his character embark, midway  through the novel, on a speech to a roomful of people (who presumably were  asleep by the time it ended) that runs well beyond the several-page mark!  Wright (through Cross) slays his ideological demons in &quot;The  Outsider,&quot; but the victory feels hollow and it certainly detracts from  the book's literary merit.<br />Wright made a far better effort at exploring  existential ideas in &quot;The Man Who Lived Underground,&quot; which is  included in the book of short stories, &quot;Eight Men.&quot; That story,  well-conceived and written, will reward the reader far more than this  overburdened novel.	2000-03-16
US	52442326	R1FYZ1ATDGYX0D	0156617579	999786624	Modern Temper: A Study And A Confession	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A prophetic work	Written in the pivotal year 1929, Krutch captured in this series of essays the sense of foreboding that led into the nightmare decade and a half spanning the Depression '30s and the conclusion of World War II. His  essential theme is that &quot;the modern temper,&quot; one of questioning  and skepticism, had led Man to a frightening crossroads where the old myths  of the past -- religion, dramatic tragedy, devotion to family -- no longer  worked, yet the technology and psychological insights that had  remorselessly torn these values apart offered no consolation other than the  promise of more objective knowledge.<br />Man was left instead, Krutch felt,  with what is best described as the existential dilemma, although of course  he didn't use this term. He saw Man as struggling to come to terms with the  paradox of expanding knowledge. That is to say, the more we understand, the  more it becomes clear that the universe of which we are only a tiny part  spins according to its own laws, with no regard for Man's deep and abiding  need for spiritual sustenance. Yet once Man has released the genie of  technology and of skepticism, it is difficult to return to the old myths,  in which Man was always placed at the center of the moral and spiritual  universe.<br />This is a bleak book, yet it does much to explain the blind  adherence to ideology that characterized the disastrous fascist,  totalitarian movements of the 1930s. In this regard, a good companion read  (and one that reaches a very different set of conclusions) is Viktor  Frankl's &quot;Man's Search for Meaning.&quot;	2000-02-29
US	52442326	R1VHBQUGLLVTA5	0879100427	748425500	Four Lives in the Bebop Business	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Compelling real-life jazz stories	Spellman, a lucid analyst of the avant garde jazz movement in the '60s (see his liner notes, for example, on the original release of Coltrane's &quot;Ascension&quot;), has contributed with this book four compelling  portraits of musicians who gave and have given their lives to  jazz.<br />&quot;Four Lives in the Bebop Business&quot; profiles two altoists,  Jackie McLean and Ornette Coleman; and two pianists, Cecil Taylor and  Herbie Nichols. Spellman skillfully crafts the narratives, while wisely  allowing his subjects to tell large chunks of their stories in their own  words.<br />It becomes clear as one reads the book that it took a lot of guts  to be a jazz musician during the '50s and '60s (and still does). All four  of the musicians faced major obstacles in pursuing their art. <br />McLean,  who enjoyed the greatest amount of commercial success of the four,  especially early on, battled drug addiction. Taylor and Coleman faced open  hostility because of their challenging, groundbreaking approaches to  playing their instruments. Nichols (the only one of the four who is not  still alive) was just plain ignored, despite his brilliantly original  playing (check out the two-disk Blue Note compilation of his music), and  spent much of his all-too-brief career playing in Greenwich Village  dives.<br />In spite of bad accommodations, poor pay, public indifference,  critical hostility and difficulty finding gigs, these artists, the book  makes clear, would never play anything other than jazz. In this sense, the  book has an underlying inspirational message. Still, it remains for America  to fully embrace its only true indigenous art form, something which to this  day has not occurred.<br />The book also offers insights from the musicians on  the creative process and about the historic changes in jazz that occurred  during the '60s, from the perspective of men who were on the front lines of  the battles between critics, musicians, and the listening public.  <br />Required reading for the serious jazz listener.	2000-02-11
US	52442326	R1P0WL1OYK66SL	0316472409	860970260	Sonny Liston Was a Friend of Mine: Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An original American voice	Thom Jones' stories resist easy classification, and merely recapping the action of even a few does him a disservice. However those unfamiliar with his work will get a strong sense of his story-telling powers simply by  reading the title story in this, his latest collection.<br />That story has  the peculiar gem-like perfection of some of Hemingway's best, although I  don't mean to suggest that Jones in any way mimicks Hemingway's style,  except in the sense that he gains power by leaving details out. <br />Jones'  hardboiled look at a Golden Gloves boxer whose &quot;career&quot; ends  shortly after it begins does more than sharply catalog the rounds of  training, the fear and exultation in the ring and the physical pain of  boxing. It suggests a way of life ending and a new one beginning. Although  we leave him late in his teenage years, it's easy to envision the  protagonist at 30 on a barstool, hunched over a beer and confiding to a  stranger the words of the story's title.<br />In its unsentimental look at  amateur boxing, the story recalls Leonard Gardner's classic &quot;Fat  City,&quot; but the other stories range far beyond the ring, into mental  wards, lonely apartments and grimy film projection booths. This is strong  stuff, but Jones rarely hits a false note. &quot;Sonny Liston Was a Friend  of Mine&quot; is a worthy successor to the equally well-done &quot;Cold  Snap&quot; and &quot;The Pugilist at Rest.&quot;	2000-02-02
US	52442326	R4SK14O3XAK3G	1556111916	611812380	Midnight Cowboy	Books	5	99	107	N	Y	Far better than the film	It's hard to understand why this '60s gem has become a difficult find. The film, a watered-down version saved by a great Dustin Hoffman performance, has certainly not been forgotten. Yet few people seem to have sought out  the original work.<br />This is a shame because the novel is much more  satisfying than the one-note film. The background of the guileless main  character, Joe Buck (first cousin to &quot;Being There&quot;'s Chance) is  brought out in a series of mysterious incidents that put his fateful trip  to New York into perspective.<br />The book also benefits from a narrative  voice that ranges from flat objectivity to the wise and knowing tone of a  fable teller. This voice also manages to capture the benign anonymity of  big-city life. Against this backdrop, we see Joe Buck wander in search of a  truth he can not name.<br />His destiny arrives in the person of a street  urchin/criminal, Enrico Salvatore (Ratso) Rizzo. Those who have not read  the book but have seen the film will be surprised that Herlihy's character  is a boy -- though of course street-hardened beyond his years. This detail  hardly detracts from Hoffman's performance in the film. Yet in the book it  lends a poignancy to the character and his tragedy that the movie didn't  capture.<br />Post-modernists may be impatient with the streaks of '60s  idealism that run through the book. For me, the book strikes just the right  tone for our age: violence is juxtaposed with life-affirming ideals in the  novel's summation.<br />A neglected minor classic; highly recommended.	2000-01-18
US	52442326	R2TJA7I7Y8CL3L	0520206576	182512812	Fat City (California Fiction)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Modern realism at its best	Like a boxer who has complete confidence in every move he makes, Gardner constructed a novel about small-city life that never takes a wrong step or strikes a false note. The setting is the northern California town of  Stockton; the subject is the ordinary men and women operating on the  fringes of society: living, working and drinking hard, they face a life of  limited opportunity, yet somehow they persist, refusing to be defeated by  the many obstacles they face.<br />The main characters are boxers: Billy, who  at 29 is all but washed up, decides to try it in the ring one more time.  Ernie, young and confident, enjoys limited success, but it's clear his  future in the ring is limited at best. Between bouts they take day laborer  jobs in the fields and orchards that support the Stockton community. The  scenes that describe the work in the fields and the bus trips to small-time  fights are beautifully drawn in spare, unsentimental prose of the highest  order.<br />This novel is a classic of American realism. Gardner catches with  uncanny clarity the drudgery of the work required to keep our land of  plenty churning out the goods that we expect and take for granted. Its  general tone is bleak, yet that tone is leavened with a deadpan humor and  -- most importantly -- a genuine respect for his characters.<br />It's  unfortunate for us as readers that Gardner didn't write more. On the other  hand, he accomplished much with this work, and I believe that we can find  his influence in contemporary writers such as Thom Jones and Elwood Reid.	2000-01-05
US	52442326	R196DE8FFOGMA2	0140186875	374413333	The Rise of David Levinsky (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	61	63	N	Y	Classic American Literature	I first read this book in the mid-70s when it was assigned as part of an undergrad history course. I devoured it then, rediscovered it ten years later and found I enjoyed it even more on a second reading. Subsequent  readings have not diminished my admiration for the  novel.<br />&quot;Levinsky&quot; is a rare example of the novel that works  both as history and as literature. Cahan's firsthand observations of late  19th century industrial America and of the immigrants' struggles to adapt  to life in a new land are compelling in their own right. But this is no  mere slice of life realism. Cahan created complex characters who face  conflicts beyond the struggle to survive.<br />Cahan's main character,  Levinsky, spends the first part of the book struggling to master the Talmud  in his village in Russia. Here Cahan introduces us to Levinsky's incisive  mind, one that will serve him well when he goes to America and begins to  serve a new master: business. In the opening section, Cahan also develops  one of several beautifully drawn supporting characters: Levinsky's  mother.<br />By novel's end, we realize the irony of the novel's title. On one  level, Levinsky's story is a classic tale of rags-to-riches, American-style  success. On the other, his story is one of failure to achieve the rich,  personal, intellectually stimulating connection with others that he has  craved since childhood.<br />This great novel deserves to be on the short list  of indispensable American fiction. One seeking to understand the roots of  our country would be hard pressed to do better than to read it.	1999-12-09
US	52442326	R2Q748I2TURRWS	0553296345	169330482	Zen in the Art of Writing: Releasing the Creative Genius Within You	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A rare book that offers insights into the writing process.	As a rule I find books that profess to &quot;explain&quot; the writing/creative process to be useless at best and numbing at worst. Bradbury, however, isn't interested in writing a &quot;how-to&quot; book.  This is because he rightly considers the creative process to be impossible  to neatly sum up or explain.<br />Still, this book doesn't mystify writing  either. Bradbury reminds the reader/writer that the creative process is  highly individual and that the best source that we have when we write is  ourself: our memories, our experiences and our imagination, which allows us  to take the stuff inside us and transform it into something fresh and new.  His discussions of how he got the ideas for some of his stories  (particularly fascinating to me because I had read all of them) are gems,  offering insights that are fascinating in their own right and instructive  to those examining their own methods of writing.<br />As a playwright, this  book was an inspiration to me when I first read it several years ago, and  it continues to be to this day. This is possibly the only book on writing  that I would recommend to anyone who is a writer who thinks he/she might  want to be one.	1999-03-12
US	52442326	R2T0E9H1XCLWIQ	0801490480	932867393	The New Empire: An Interpretation of American Expansion, 1860-1898 (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The book hits the heart of 19th century U.S. foreign policy.	This analysis of the roots of U.S. foreign policy, and its emphasis on expansionism, was written 35 years ago, but remains extremely timely. LaFeber convincingly paints the 1890s as the watershed decade in American  history, the decade in which America abandoned forever its isolationist  rhetoric and entered the world stage as a power player.<br />But the real  insight of the book is that the decade of the '90s flowed inevitably from  the internal expansion that drove American history through the 18th century  and the first half of the 19th. He points out that by the 1850s, key  political figures, especially William Seward, were looking outward,  anticipating the need for new markets as an outlet for American  agricultural and industrial productivity. <br />LaFeber briefly but sharply  etches a portrait of Seward and his influential ideas, and includes  excellent analyses of the ideas of other influential men of the day:  Frederick Jackson Turner, Alfred Thayer Mahan, Josiah Strong, Brook Adams,  and Theodore Roosevelt. Just as impressive is his ability to compare and  contrast the expansionist ideas of lesser-known men including secretaries  of state William Evarts, Frederick Freylinghuysen, and William G.  Blaine.<br />Learned men in all fields sometimes neglect the craft of writing  clearly, failing to realize that good writing does not simplify ideas;  rather, it illuminates them. Professor LaFeber's recognized this, and his  fine writing brings the late 19th century alive. Highly recommended.	1998-11-13
