US	52446508	R15OSQGX80D30N	076241507X	532194516	46 Pages	Books	2	6	7	N	N	46 pages never seemed so long	\\"46 Pages\\" unfortunately refers to the length of the Revolutionary War era pamphlet, \\"Common Sense,\\" rather than this book about said pamphlet.  Unfortunate because Liell could have made his basic point in 46 pages, or even much less.   <br /> <br />As it is the book is pretty short, but we get the idea of Liell's thesis quickly - \\"Common Sense\\" sparked a change in the way Americans thought about their relationship with England.  Before, Americans sought rights within the British system, after they wanted a whole different system.  Further, \\"Common Sense\\" helped Americans think about a republican form of government rather than an independent government based on the British model.  Good point.  Now, if you want to read it again stretched over about 150 pages, pick up this book. <br /> <br />Liell runs into trouble in part because he's not sure what he wants to do with his book.  There's a little bit of Gary Wills' \\"Lincoln at Gettysburg,\\" a little bit of Richard Brookhiser's short biographies of the founding fathers, and a little bit of a grade-school text book.  The combination does not achieve what any of its component parts succeed at. <br /> <br />Wills' book on Lincoln's speech explores its historic context, analyzes its every phrase, and then describes the effect it had on American thinking during and after the Civil War.  A glaring absence of Liell's book is much analysis of the language of \\"Common Sense.\\"  He touches on it, emphasizing that it was written to be understood not just by the framers but also by common farmers, but we don't really come away with much appreciation of the actual language of the pamphlet.   <br /> <br />Liell probably would have been better off writing a straight biography of Thomas Paine.  Again, Paine's biography is touched on, but his life is glossed over.  This may be because Liell is aiming at a very general audience and is afraid of being offensive.  For instance, Liell mentions in passing that after the Revolution, Paine wroteagainst organized religion in Europe, but doesn't really explain Paine's views.  Though the brief story goes on to discuss how Paine was imprisoned in France for his views, and was almost a victim of the Reign of Terror,  I almost got the sense that Liell was avoiding Paine's more controversial positions out of fear of a modern reign of terror that reacts poorly to evidence of founding fathers' anti-religiosity.   <br /> <br />Another glaring absence is \\"Common Sense\\" itself.  The book's very title tips us off that the pamphlet is a short work; it could easily have been included as an appendix.  Instead, the book reviews much of what anyone who knows what \\"Common Sense\\" is probably already knows.  With our curiosity piqued, the end of the book would have been an opportune time to read the work, probably for the first time.   <br /> <br />Devoid of in-depth biographical information, textual analysis and \\"Common Sense\\" itself, \\"46 Pages\\" is left with the same basic point repeated over and over again.   Despite its brevity, the book therefore moves slowly to a scattered conclusion about \\"other founding fathers\\" (all of whom had already been discussed), and an epilogue about Paine's later life that hints at, but does not explore, what seems like a truly interesting story.   <br />	2005-03-13
US	52446508	R2ZWOZ67JLTVXF	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	3	35	39	N	N	It's hard to get into the swing of this Pendulum	This book was on my shelf for years but I finally got around to reading it after reading the DAVINCI CODE and ANGELS AND DEMONS.  They have similar themes, but Foucault's Pendulum has a much larger point having to do with the search for meaning.  The point is that the search itself is compelling, and the temptation of searching for secret meaning can become obsessive.  But it's hard to get into the swing of PENDULUM.  To get to that main point, Umberto Eco constructs a story that manages to pack speculation about just about every occult group and secret society in history into one unified theory.  Are the characters discovering or creating their story?  Or is their imagination producing reality?  Or are they, or at least the narrator, simply delusional?  I think that's what I was supposed to be wondering while reading the book.  I was pleased with the ending, which though a little ambiguous did not turn out to be confirmation of magic or the discovery of a secret of secrets.  Dark and mysterious figures seem small and petty by the end.  Cleverly, Eco leaves us at a point where the narrator simply arrives at a new theory, which he had been doing throughout most of the book, so I suppose what's really going on could be just about anything, but at least the ending seems to be about human nature in this world.   <br /> <br />Although I liked the ending, I had many problems with this book.  First, it took far too long to get to the ending.  I think Eco wanted us to ease into the characters' descent into obsession, so the first half of the book contains too much off-the-main-plot narrative.  Then Eco wants to overwhelm us with scope, so he writes pages and pages and pages about obscure secret societies, some of which I had known something about, some of which I hadn't.  Where Dan Brown introduces quasi-historical organizations like the Illuminati with a lot of explanation, Eco's characters talk about them as if everyone is already familiar with them (including many groupsfar more obscure than the Illuminati).  I don't think Eco here is trying to be pretentious.  I think he's trying to establish a murky atmosphere within which he has an easier time manipulating our recollection of myth and history.  But wading through pages upon pages of disorienting uncertainty can be tedious.   <br /> <br />Eco also has an annoying habit of switching styles.  At first he writes in his deliberately disorienting way, then he has pages of clear exposition, then he breaks into fine print that is supposed to be the writing of one of his characters.  This too is uncomfortable, and I found the style shifts to often kill the book's momentum. <br /> <br />Finally, though the mysterious figures surrounding the book's main characters are rendered more plausible as frauds by the end of the book, there is no plausible explanation of why the main characters are surrounded by so many frauds, in on a lesser version of their grand plot.  I think this is supposed to add to the story's deliberate ambiguity, but I'm not sure and not entirely convinced.     <br /> <br />Ultimately I was wrong to pick up with book after reading Dan Brown's books.  Brown writes \\"page turner\\" thrillers, which this is most certainly not.  The right way to come at FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM is to recognize it as a character-driven novel about human nature.   <br />	2005-01-31
US	52446508	R1N5VAW9VI020X	0312268831	865806158	Grover Cleveland: A Study in Character	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Buffalo's President	The City of Buffalo is much like its most famous historical figure, Grover Cleveland.  Both were at their peak prominence a little more than a century ago, though maybe just a little forgotten by the rest of the world today.  Both are conservative but Democratic.  And words like \\"character\\" apply to both.   Alyn Brodsky's 2000 biography, which focuses on that quality of Cleveland is as good a place as any for Buffalonians to find out a little more about the only elected president to emerge from the Queen City. <br /> <br />Cleveland is probably the least-written about two-term president.  Though he is remembered largely as being the only chief executive to serve two non-consecutive terms, only history buffs remember much about what he actually did.  This is largely due to the fact that he served in between two great American crises, the Civil War and World War I.  At first blush, the issues of the day - bimetallism, tariff reform, the Pullman's strike to seem like the most inaccessible types of ancient history...at first.  Upon closer inspection, the past has much to say about the present. <br /> <br />The story of Cleveland and his presidency seem for all the world like the story of Bill Clinton: Both were elected to the presidency as governors after surviving sex scandals and enduring charges of draft dodging (Cleveland famously fathered a child out of wedlock and paid a substitute to serve in his place during the Civil War).  Three of the biggest issues for both presidents were free trade (Cleveland had the tarrif, Clinton had NAFTA and GATT), imperialism, recession, and what to do with a big budget surplus.  Both presidencies ended with Republican candidates winning the White House without winning the popular vote (that's how Cleveland lost his first bid for a second term).   <br /> <br />While readers might be struck by the similarities, author Brodsky doesn't see them.  He writes that Cleveland has \\"absolutely nothing in common\\" with Clinton (or for that matter Nixon, Reagan or the first President Bush).  That's the kind of overstatement that mars this book's all-too-frequent editorial side-comments.  But what Brodsky had in mind had less to do with the obvious historical parallels and more to do with his reading of Cleveland's character.  Cleveland was principled to the point of stubbornness-actually way past that point.  Brodsky writes that Cleveland \\"opposed just about everything that was finding favor with the majority of American people.\\"  He opposed the free coinage of silver, favored a more humane and respectful Indian policy than was popular at the time, did not believe in manifest destiny and at key moments helped big business management crush labor protests.  Still, Cleveland, along with Andrew Jackson and Franklin Roosevelt was one of only thee men in history to win more popular votes than his rivals in three consecutive races.   <br /> <br />Cleveland's most endearing trait was his honesty.  It is this quality that separates him, in Brodsky's view, from modern presidents.  Rather than denying rumors about an \\"illegitimate\\" child, Cleveland admitted the truth and the potentially negative campaign issue became a positive.  To Republican refrains of, \\"Ma ma, where's my pa?\\"  Victorious Democrats chanted, \\"Gone to the White House, ha ha ha!\\"    <br /> <br />Of course Cleveland is remembered in Buffalo because he lived here.  A former Erie County Sheriff, Cleveland was also the last Buffalo mayor to subsequently get elected to higher office.  Amazingly, within the two years after being first elected mayor, Cleveland was elected governor and then president.  From the one of the fastest rises in American political history, Cleveland came to dominate American politics for 12 years.  <br /> <br />Cleveland had no great war for which he is remembered.  He was more a manager of government than innovator with it and thus is not especially remembered for a legislative program.   Nor did his somewhat staid personality - instark contrast to that of his contemporary, Theodore Roosevelt-leave a larger than life impression.  But Cleveland is Buffalo's president: an honest, competent chief executive who worked hard on behalf of his community and nation.   Though sometimes a bit too effusive in his praise, Brodsky does right by Cleveland and reminds us Western New Yorkers another story from our proud heritage.   <br /> <br />### <br />	2004-12-15
US	52446508	RJWJQ2N5BF5FB	1586482343	743091465	Going Nucular: Language, Politics and Culture in Confrontational Times	Books	2	27	42	N	N	Stale air	I am usually disappointed when the interview part of NPR's Fresh Air show ends and the tail end commentary or review fills out the show's hour...except when Geoffrey Nunberg gives one of his little radio essays on language.  For that reason I was eager to read this book, but I was frustrated to find that Going Nucular is simply a collection of those radio essays, with a few newspaper columns thrown in.  I had heard most of what I was now reading, and since all of the essays were written since 2001, they were mostly fresh in my mind.  Not that they weren't interesting, but they simply weren't new.  I suspect other regular Fresh Air listeners will have a similar reaction.  After finishing the book I scanned the cover and could not find any indication that the book was a collection of old essays, which I found sort of ironic being that the Nunberg is a communication expert.    <br />	2004-10-29
US	52446508	R3T5CR1VK56OZE	0743270134	691943466	You Have the Power: How to Take Back Our Country and Restore Democracy in America	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Better as a memoir than a manual	Inevitably a book like this has two interwoven parts - a memoir and a litany of \\"we musts and we needs.\\"  As is often the case, the memoir of this rather unfortunately named book (sounds like a self help manual) is the far more interesting part.   Dean is at his most interesting when discussing his take on his own campaign and various political figures.  The famous scream?  Dean makes a compelling case that it never happened (really!)  Bill Clinton?  A uniquely skilled politician who tried to undermine Dean and left many would-be successors with the wrong impression that he won because he was centrist.  George Bush?  The worst president since Harding (and even more dangerous).  In acknowledging that his operation was not prepared to win a front-runners campaign, Dean sort of explains why he, as one of the guys who lost, should be writing about what Democrats need to do to win.  I would have liked more analysis of what went wrong, and what went right.  On the whole, though this slim volume is worthwhile and engaging enough to read in one or two sittings.	2004-10-29
US	52446508	R2YFS5IFJC6QCA	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not a masterpiece	THE DA VINCI CODE is disappointing.  The problem is not that the book isn't fast paced and suspenseful - it is to both.  But that's all it is.  There are plenty of \\"hooks\\" and plot twists, but they occur on a page-to-page level.  Once the story is established as a quest for the Holy Grail, the arc of the plot becomes highly predictable.  That the story is about the search for the actual Holy Grail, and the biggest conspiracy in the history of western civilization, is another problem.  The scope is as big as it seems.  The suspension of disbelief becomes shaky less than halfway through the book and never recovers (side diatribes about the theological implications of THE LITTLE MERMAID don't help matters).  As if that weren't bad enough, after we come to realize the story really is about the search for the Grail, even after its \\"true nature\\" is revealed, even after it is actually located... we don't get to see it.  Had the book ended with some doubt about whether the Grail - and the massive conspiracy about it -- was real, hiding it would have worked.  But by the end of the book there is no doubt about its authenticity.  We are told somewhere in the middle of the story what type of thing the Grail really is (it isn't a cup), but we don't learn much more about it once its location is discovered.  The whole thing has the unpleasant smell of the new-age self-help book, THE CELESTINE PROPHESY.  Well, it wasn't quite that bad - but precisely because it wasn't that bad, it was even more disappointing.	2003-12-30
US	52446508	R114067NLT4V3D	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Best Potter Yet	\\"The Order of the Phoenix\\" is the best and most \\"adult\\" Harry Potter book yet.  At 870 pages, with the now-teenage characters drinking coffee and sometimes looking for something stronger, dating, falling into sullen moods, and suffering emotional as well as physical pain, this is clearly a book aimed at an older audience than \\"The Sorcerer's Stone.\\"  The length and timing of the books seems to be a deliberate part of a plan for young people to grow with them.  By the time a ten year old is finished with \\"Sorcerer's Stone,\\" he or she could be eleven and ready for \\"Chamber of Secrets.\\"  \\"Phoenix\\" is not only long enough to scare away an inappropriately young audience (it is probably too scary for young children), but it is dark and serious enough to engage teenagers...and older audiences (like me!).  The book is also more internally consistent than its predecessors, and the characters' motives are more accessible to adults.  For instance, the younger Potter seemed unaccountably distrustful of adults until I came to realize that children basically walk through life afraid of getting caught.  Almost anything a young child may have the urge to do is the type of thing adults put limits on.  So young Harry would not go to his elders when such a course seemed, from my adult perspective, to be the logical thing to do.  Harry must remain self-reliant, otherwise he wouldn't be at the center of the stories.  In Phoenix, he is either physically separated from some allied adults, or is resentful towards others.  Its not so much that he's distrustful as he is buffeted between forces that are affecting them too.  The hideous Dolores Umbridge, subjects other adults to the same type of police-state that the younger Harry must have felt like he was living in whenever he entered Professor Snape's classroom from the start.  Phoneix is the second book in which a significant character dies, which makes up for the overly happy endings of the first two books and enhances a genuine sense ofsuspense and foreboding as the book moves along.  And the book certainly does move along.  No long, boring descriptions of Quiddich, no tedious Winter Ball.  Just about every page moves the plot along.<br />I spent the summer reading the Potter books, and this was a great one to end my run with.  I suppose it may be a few summers yet before the sixth book comes out.  \\"Phoneix\\"  leaves me eagerly anticipating that date.	2003-10-04
US	52446508	R1VU1KHO7PQQWW	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	4	2	8	N	Y	I�d rather be a muggle!	I enjoyed HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE, but the book really brought into stark relief how glad we all should be that we're not wizards:<br />Fighting each other:<br />The most potent spell the wizards have is the Avada Kedavra spell, which kills and supposedly has no defense.  It is cast through a device (a wand) and can kill one victim at a time.  Muggles have machine guns, nuclear weapons, and poison gas.  Muggles are better in this regard.  Advantage: Muggles.<br />Transportation:<br />Wizards have flying brooms, floo powder, port keys, flying carpets, the aparate teleportation spell, a flying car, and the Hogwarts Express.  Muggles have airplanes, cars, and trains.  As far as I can tell, muggles are much better at transporting groups of people.  The Hogwarts Express does not seem to be any more efficient than a muggle train, except in that it leaves on time.  Airplanes seem safer and easier than port keys, which require elaborate preparation to essentially be used once or twice.  Flying carpets are essentially off-limits to the wizards of England, leaving family transportation options limited to floo powder and brooms, both of which are shown to be dangerous in the Potter books (Harry uses floo powder incorrectly and ends up in a dark wizard shop, while Quiddich players are frequently falling off their broom sticks and getting hurt).  The wizards have a clear advantage with the aparate teleportation spell, but it too is of limited use (for instance, it can't be used to get in or out of Hogwarts).  Advantage: draw.<br />Medicine:<br />This is the one area in which wizards have an undisputed advantage.  Injuries can be healed almost immediately and nobody ever seems to get sick.  However, just as diseases become more resistant and harder to treat in the muggle world, so too with wizards.  Lycanthropy cannot be cured, and the use of unicorn blood to stave off death creates a weakness and addiction of sorts.  Voldemort's self-medication usually involves hurting someone else to stay alive, the Sorcerer's Stone artificially prolongs life but also had negative social consequences.  We don't know about wizard public health, although British muggles have access to universal health coverage.  Still, the wizards seem to have the upper hand here.  Advantage: wizards.<br />Education:<br />Wizards go to school for seven years and learn about magic.  Muggles go to school for upwards of 20 years or more and learn about their world.  Potions and chemistry are about on par.  After four years of transfiguration, physics seems more useful. Most of the other wizard topics may or may not be more useful than their muggle equivalent, but the way they are taught dwarf the problems with the muggle education system.  The history of magic is taught by a boring ghost and seems to be absorbed by only one student (Hermoin).  divination is acknowledged by most of the faculty to be a sham topic.  The rotating defense against dark arts teachers are either ineffectual, dangerous in themselves, or chased out of Hogwarts due to prejudice and hatred.  Teaching handling of magical animals is entrusted to Hagrid, apparently out of sympathy, who doesn't know how to teach (a year is wasted on bloberworms, another on blast-ended skewts).  Exams are cancelled as a \\"reward\\" for good behavior.  It is not clear where \\"pure blood\\" wizards learn how to read or learn about math, but it is clear that they don't learn much about the muggle world, its science, history, or culture.  They seem to have more fun, but so what?  The product of their education system is a society is dominated by dark wizards and oblivious bureaucrats.  All of this is at what is supposed to be the very best wizard school.  Advantage: muggles.<br />Government & criminal justice:<br />The Potter books do not present enough information to render a definitive judgment, but it appears that the wizard world, at least in Britain, is ruled by a totalitarian government.  The Minister of Magic is appointed, not elected.  There is no separation of powers between the bureaucracy and the judiciary and there is no evidence of a legislative branch.  The Ministry regulates nearly all facets of life, including the press (although the lack of press freedom becomes more clear in the 5th book).  Harry is watched by Big Brother so closely that he cannot escape the eye if magic is illegally used in his house.  Prisoners are unceasingly tortured by dementors.  Corruption and inefficiency is also prominent - death eaters hold key positions because, although fingered as such were never convicted, while innocents like Sirus Black were condemned.  Discrimination is openly practiced against giants and werewolves, and house elves are actually enslaved.  Certainly some muggle countries are just as bad, but most industrial nations including Britian seem better off.  Advantage: muggles.<br />Result?  Muggles zap wizards, 3-1-1.nted, not elected.  There is no separation of powers between the bureaucracy and the judiciary and there is no evidence of a legislative branch.  The Ministry regulates nearly all facets of life, including the press (although the lack of press freedom becomes more clear in the 5th book).  Harry is watched by Big Brother so closely that he cannot escape the eye if magic is illegally used in his house.  Prisoners are unceasingly tortured by dementors.  Corruption and inefficiency is also prominent - death eaters hold key positions because, although fingered as such were never convicted, while innocents like Sirus Black were condemned.  Discrimination is openly practiced against giants and werewolves, and house elves are actually enslaved.  Certainly some muggle countries are just as bad, but most industrial nations including Britian seem better off.  Advantage: muggles.<br />Result?  Muggles zap wizards, 3-1-1.	2003-09-13
US	52446508	R1OIXLP21WILR1	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Will Malfoy ever get a break?	I breezed through CHAMBER OF SECRETS almost with a sense of urgency.  I wanted to read what was going to happen next, and I was never bored.  As soon as I finished I picked up the third Harry Potter book and began reading it.  This reaction pretty much describes the strength of the book and the series (at least thus far) - it is compelling, interesting and entertaining.<br />I liked that CHAMBER OF SECRETS made use of stories, powers and characters mentioned in the first Potter book but in a more expanded way here.  I'm never a fan of inventing something new to get a character out of a situation.  That happens to some extent near the end of CHAMBER OF SECRETS, but the book is stronger when Harry's ability to speak with snakes comes in handy and is explained further, Hagrid's past plays a key plot role and Percy the prefect subtly falls under suspicion.  In each case, these things first appeared in HARRY POTTER AND THE SORUCER'S STONE.  On the other hand, Tom Riddle, the sword of Gryffindor and the phoenix seem introduced to explain away situations that can't be explained with already-introduced elements.<br />Some other things I don't like about this book (and the first) - Harry's distrust of authority, while perhaps true to form for a child, is annoying.  When Dumbledor asks him if he has anything to tell him, Harry withholds key information, but when his abck is up against the wall, he trusts in Dumbledor's promise.  What's the message here?  Be distrustful of adults unless there's no choice?<br />Also, poor Draco Malfoy never even temporarily gets a leg up.  Harry's one-upping Malfoy has become boring because Malfoy never takes the lead, never pulls one over on Harry, and never does a bad deed that goes unpunished.<br />Similarly, the return of Voldemort is something of a disappointment.  How many times will Harry beat him?  Pretty soon, Voldemort will cease being intimidating.<br />Finally, the ending, like the ending of the first book, is too good.  Like the repeated defeat of Voldemort, repeated all-out happy endings lose their excitement after a while.<br />None of these problems take away from the book's pace.  Despite its flaws, HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS is awfully fun.e the repeated defeat of Voldemort, repeated all-out happy endings lose their excitement after a while.  <br />None of these problems take away from the book's pace.  Despite its flaws, HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS is awfully fun.	2003-08-07
US	52446508	R3DT31S0E028A2	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It shows the monster!	I once read that Stephen Spielberg's philosophy of moviemaking was something like the reverse of the low budget strategy of allowing people's imagination to scare them by NOT showing the monster. Spielberg wants to scare the audience by showing the monster in all its glory.  That's how I felt about HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE.  It shows the monster - all the monsters and fantasies that an eleven-year-old might have.<br />Like Spielberg, Rowling only pulls it off because her monster really matches our expectations.  In this case, the \\"monster\\" might be an actual monster - a troll, a dragon, an evil wizard, or a metaphorical one - uncaring step parents right out of the central casting of a child's angst; the discovery that, \\"hey,\\" I really am special; teachers who really are out to get me; and bullies that get what they deserve at every corner.<br />The book works first because Rowling does not experiment with too many alien concepts.  Centaurs, unicorns, goblins pretty much look and act like a child might expect them to.  Other than the annoying \\"Quidditch,\\" game, there aren't too many new magical concepts or creatures needing explanation.  A ghost appears and its place in the story is explained, but what a ghost is needs no explanation.  J.R.R. Tolkien understood this when he wrote THE HOBBIT - although hobbits themselves required explanation, dwarves, elves, goblins, spiders and eagles did not.  That's why THE HOBBIT works as a children's book, while THE LORD OF THE RINGS, with its Nazgul, ents, olephants, and balrogs is best appreciated by adults.<br />The second aspect of this book that works is that Rowling unabashedly does with her familiar creatures and characters what an eleven-year-old would want done with them.  The bully never wins the day.  Nor does Harry Potter suffer from taking pleasure in seeing the bullies fail.  This happens again and again, most dramatically at the end of the story when the good guys win the big contest because the benign but distant father figure somewhat arbitrarily awards them victory.<br />All this works well together and kept me, as an adult interested enough that I now want to read the next book.  I did have two small problems with SORCERER'S STONE.  First, the book was enjoyable to me as an adult because in most respects, the child characters of the book thought like adults.  The one exception to this rule is that they have a child-like fear of authority.  They rarely go to authority figures for assistance, for fear of not being taken seriously.  This is understandable for children and to children, but the reasoning, articulation and problem solving abilities of the characters are more fantastic for eleven-year-olds than their magic.<br />The second problem I had was that the children overcome obstacles set by adults, or designed to stop adults, pretty much by repeated frontal assaults.  At one point, for instance, the children out-maneuver a magical chess set.  Surely the adult wizard who set the trap could out-play what amounts to a first grade wizardling?  If not, how useful would the trap be in stopping a more powerful foe (it turns out the answer is, not much, but that's another matter).  At another point, a clumsy child-wizard uses a basic spell to stop a troll.  If it is that easy, why are adults afraid of the troll?<br />But these are minor points.  Part of the fantasy for the children for whom this book is aimed is to imagine beating grown-ups at the own games.  That's a small enough demand for suspension of disbelief for a grown up to endure while enjoying this otherwise captivating story.benign but distant father figure somewhat arbitrarily awards them victory.  <br />All this works well together and kept me, as an adult interested enough that I now want to read the next book.  I did have two small problems with SORCERER'S STONE.  First, the book was enjoyable to me as an adult because in most respects, the child characters of the book thought like adults.  The one exception to this rule is that they have a child-like fear of authority.  They rarely go to authority figures for assistance, for fear of not being taken seriously.  This is understandable for children and to children, but the reasoning, articulation and problem solving abilities of the characters are more fantastic for eleven-year-olds than their magic.<br />The second problem I had was that the children overcome obstacles set by adults, or designed to stop adults, pretty much by repeated frontal assaults.  At one point, for instance, the children out-maneuver a magical chess set.  Surely the adult wizard who set the trap could out-play what amounts to a first grade wizardling?   If not, how useful would the trap be in stopping a more powerful foe (it turns out the answer is, not much, but that's another matter).  At another point, a clumsy child-wizard uses a basic spell to stop a troll.  If it is that easy, why are adults afraid of the troll?  <br />But these are minor points.  Part of the fantasy for the children for whom this book is aimed is to imagine beating grown-ups at the own games.  That's a small enough demand for suspension of disbelief for a grown up to endure while enjoying this otherwise captivating story.	2003-07-20
US	52446508	R3UHVGQP5G2ZM1	0805066802	124972986	Plague: A Story of Rivalry, Science, and the Scourge That Won't Go Away	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Trying too hard to be original	PLAGUE starts out slow but gathers steam in the last hundred pages.  This progression may have been inevitable.   True stories of killer diseases have emerged as a genre in recent years since the publishing of Richard Preston's THE HOT ZONE, and the plague in particular is probably the most written-about disease in human history.  So Marriott needed to try something new or be hopelessly derivative. The problem with this book is that Marriott perhaps attempts tries in too many ways before the story steadies itself and becomes compelling.<br />The basic set up of the book is, HOT ZONE-like, an icky outline of what the disease can do, then the story of the scientific exploration of the disease. (Even more than THE HOT ZONE, PLAGUE's tale of scientific rivalry in the race to understand the disease reminded me of Gina Kolata's FLU).  This story, the rivalry between French doctor Alexander Yersin and his Japanese competitor, Kitasato Shibasaburo, is essentially what the book is about.  <br />But before the Yersin-Kitasato race becomes interesting, Marriott inserts several side stories, some of which distract from the momentum of the main story.  Most distracting is an ongoing story about a 1994 plague outbreak in India.  That's only the lengthiest of several stories of \\"future\\" plague outbreaks.  I think the point is that even though the bacteria that causes plague was identified a hundred years ago, even though the disease is now treatable, even though its method of transmission is now understood, it is still a problem for human societies.  But the point could have been made better in a more linear story.  As it is, the side stories seem to be inserted in slow moments of the main story.  Perhaps Marriott felt that the main story did not provide enough material for a full, suspenseful book.  <br />Nevertheless, the suspense level of PLAGUE picks up and the Yersin-Kitasato story reaches a finite end.  Not so the larger story of the plague, as indicated by the somewhat open-ended Indian outbreak story, which mutates into a more personal story about a family affected by the social impact of what turns out to be a small outbreak.  Unfortunately, this is how the book ends.  I think I understand why, but it just doesn't work.	2003-07-08
US	52446508	R2TX79IKF1P5F0	0312084447	365035731	Plunkitt of Tammany Hall: A Series of Very Plain Talks on Very Practical Politics (The Bedford Series in History and Culture)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lessons from the past	PLUNKITT OF TAMMANY HALL translates remarkably well a century after William Riordon transcribed the wit and wisdom of the ward healer for whom the book was titled.  The context of Plunkitt's stories has changed, but his essential messages have remained.<br />On a case by case basis, Plunkitt's adages care a certain amount of wisdom.  His insights into how politics works - personal connection and service delivery trump issues and oratory - are especially poignant.  Yet the reader of a hundred years ago and the reader of today realize that they are reading the philosophy of a rouge.  Plunkitt's distinction between \\"Honest graft\\" and \\"dishonest graft\\" explains more his mindset than justifies his, and his ilk's, corruption.  His rants against the civil service system make sense only up to the point of understanding that his preferred alternative is a spoils system that has little to do with public service.  <br />Plunkitt speaks across time to two very relevant modern phenomena: voter apathy and corruption in politics.  Although Plunkitt himself senses the beginnings of voter apathy, he would be shocked at the lack of interest today, especially amongst those in most need of a friendly government.  But Plunkitt too would be able to recognize the cause - voter's of Plunkitt's day knew directly how their vote would affect their futures.  Voting the right way might mean a job, or food, or some other service that would not otherwise be available.  As government assistance has become fairer and more equitable, that direct connection has diminished.  <br />As politics in Plunkitt's time was obviously far more corrupt than politics today, that condition too put the lie to the notion that dishonesty in politics is a new thing that has bred cynicism and thus a decline of civic participation.  Its an interesting notion that could hardly be conveyed better than through this little book from the past.	2003-07-01
US	52446508	R3IGHLDI4Y8FOI	0312084447	365035731	Plunkitt of Tammany Hall: A Series of Very Plain Talks on Very Practical Politics (The Bedford Series in History and Culture)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lessons from the past	PLUNKITT OF TAMMANY HALL translates remarkably well a century after William Riordon transcribed the wit and wisdom of the ward healer for whom the book was titled.  The context of Plunkitt's stories has changed, but his essential messages have remained.<br />On a case by case basis, Plunkitt's adages care a certain amount of wisdom.  His insights into how politics works - personal connection and service delivery trump issues and oratory - are especially poignant.  Yet the reader of a hundred years ago and the reader of today realize that they are reading the philosophy of a rouge.  Plunkitt's distinction between \\"Honest graft\\" and \\"dishonest graft\\" explains more his mindset than justifies his, and his ilk's, corruption.  His rants against the civil service system make sense only up to the point of understanding that his preferred alternative is a spoils system that has little to do with public service.  <br />Plunkitt speaks across time to two very relevant modern phenomena: voter apathy and corruption in politics.  Although Plunkitt himself senses the beginnings of voter apathy, he would be shocked at the lack of interest today, especially amongst those in most need of a friendly government.  But Plunkitt too would be able to recognize the cause - voter's of Plunkitt's day knew directly how their vote would affect their futures.  Voting the right way might mean a job, or food, or some other service that would not otherwise be available.  As government assistance has become fairer and more equitable, that direct connection has diminished.  <br />As politics in Plunkitt's time was obviously far more corrupt than politics today, that condition too put the lie to the notion that dishonesty in politics is a new thing that has bred cynicism and thus a decline of civic participation.  Its an interesting notion that could hardly be conveyed better than through this little book from the past.	2003-07-01
US	52446508	R38BELZGD9KF0J	0195157354	606372633	Slavemaster President: The Double Career of James Polk	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Polk as villain	James Polk is usually the least familiar president to appear on historians top 10 lists.  But for William Dusinberre, Polk firmly holds a spot near the very bottom.  For Dusinberre, Polk and his ideological brethren set the country on a course that unnecessarily led to the Civil War, the violent fall of the South, and the self-destruction of his own class.  <br />Polk annexed Texas and was the instigator of the Mexican American War, which led to acquisition of most of the southwest for the United States.  Polk also took the Oregon territory, which encompassed much of what is now the northwestern United States. Dusinberre suggests that there was a certain inevitability to some of this, but the way it all played out, and the final border results were far from certain.  Polks overly aggressive expansionism was, to Dusinberre the worst possible way for the country to stretch from sea to shinning sea because it infused militarism and obstinacy into the debate about the future of slavery.<br />Dusinberre convincingly argues that Polks, and the Southern ruling classes mores about slavery as a tool of social order, southern honor, and states rights were all subservient to the economic benefits reaped by slave owners such as Polk.  This economic incentive was so great, that it blinded Polk to what Dusinberre believes to be the inevitable fall of slavery.  A more forward-looking advocate of the Southern ruling class could have promoted a plan for a soft landing and perhaps sought alliances with moderates, rather than painting everyone who had any problems with slavery as extreme abolitionists. <br />Polks military adventurism, intolerance for even discussion of issues related to slavery, and insistence that slave owners so-called rights should be expanded (or the South would lose its dominance in the Senate) was coupled by his implicit threat of secession in the event of almost any sort of compromise. Dusinberre argues that before Polk and his war, different gradations of opinion existed in the south, but afterward existed only unithought.  The Civil War followed.<br />SLAVEMASTER PRESIDENT is not really a biography as much as it is a study of how slave ownership may have affected the ideology of pre-Civil War southern Democrats such as and including Polk, and how that ideology in turn contributed to the conditions that led to the Civil War.  It is a compelling argument. Dusinberre also achieves a heart-rending description of slave life on the Polk plantation.  The book achieves what it set out to do.   <br />Still, I would have liked the book to be a bit more biographical. Dusinberre expains up front that his book does not discuss Polks role as a congressman in President Andrew Jacksons war against the Bank of the United States.  Nor does it portray President Polks part in securing the Tariff of 1846, nor his diplomacy with Britain, which led to the establishment of the northwestern boundary dividing the United States from Canada.  These stories, explains Dusinberre, have been told elsewhere.  Maybe they have, but there is remarkably little popular literature on this influential, if wrongheaded president.  I am satisfied with Dusinberres book such that it is, but it also left me wanting to read more about Polk.	2003-06-25
US	52446508	R140MVJBRHVPNH	0195157354	606372633	Slavemaster President: The Double Career of James Polk	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Polk as a short-sighted failure	James Polk is usually the least familiar president to appear on historians' top 10 lists.  But for William Dusinberre, Polk firmly holds a spot near the very bottom.  For Dusinberre, Polk and his ideological brethren set the country on a course that unnecessarily led to the Civil War, the violent fall of the South, and the self-destruction of his own class.  <br />Polk annexed Texas and was the instigator of the Mexican American War, which led to acquisition of most of the southwest for the United States.  Polk also took the Oregon territory, which encompassed much of what is now the northwestern United States. Dusinberre suggests that there was a certain inevitability to some of this, but the way it all played out, and the final border results were far from certain.  Polk's overly aggressive expansionism was, to Dusinberre the worst possible way for the country to stretch from sea to shinning sea because it infused militarism and obstinacy into the debate about the future of slavery.<br />Dusinberre convincingly argues that Polk's, and the Southern ruling classes' mores about slavery as a tool of social order, southern honor, and states rights were all subservient to the economic benefits reaped by slave owners such as Polk.  This economic incentive was so great, that it blinded Polk to what Dusinberre believes to be the inevitable fall of slavery.  A more forward-looking advocate of the Southern ruling class could have promoted a plan for a soft landing and perhaps sought alliances with moderates, rather than painting everyone who had any problems with slavery as extreme \\"abolitionists.\\" <br />Polk's military adventurism, intolerance for even discussion of issues related to slavery, and insistence that slave owners' so-called rights should be expanded (or the South would lose its dominance in the Senate) was coupled by his implicit threat of secession in the event of almost any sort of compromise. Dusinberre argues that before Polk and his war, different gradations of opinion existed in the south, but afterward existed only unithought.  The Civil War followed.<br />SLAVEMASTER PRESIDENT is not really a biography as much as it is a study of how slave ownership may have affected the ideology of pre-Civil War southern Democrats such as and including Polk, and how that ideology in turn contributed to the conditions that led to the Civil War.  It is a compelling argument. Dusinberre also achieves a heart-rending description of slave life on the Polk plantation.  The book achieves what it set out to do.   <br />Still, I would have liked the book to be a bit more biographical. Dusinberre expains up front that his book \\"does not discuss Polk's role as a congressman in President Andrew Jackson's war against the Bank of the United States.  Nor does it portray President Polk's part in securing the Tariff of 1846, nor his diplomacy with Britain, which led to the establishment of the northwestern boundary dividing the United States from Canada.  These stories,\\" explains Dusinberre, \\"have been told elsewhere.\\"  Maybe they have, but there is remarkably little popular literature on this influential, if wrongheaded president.  I am satisfied with Dusinberre's book such that it is, but it also left me wanting to read more about Polk.	2003-06-12
US	52446508	R3F17J06UOSGCR	0375414282	539401163	The Passions of Andrew Jackson	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Enjoyable but disappointing	First and foremost, THE PASSIONS OF ANDREW JACKSON is compelling.  This short book moves along at a quick pace.  While the early life stories of some historic figures are dull necessities in larger biographies, Jackson's early life is the action-packed focus of this biography.  The story of Andrew Jackson is a story of violence, sex scandal and adventure.  Author Andrew Burstein does a good job of maximizing the drama of the story, and I enjoyed reading it very much.<br />Yet, while on the whole, THE PASSIONS OF ANDREW JACKSON is an enjoyable book, it also contains a major disappointment: Burstein's treatment of Jackson's presidency. Burstein set out to write a book about Jackson's character with an emphasis on exploring his friendships.  He explicitly did not intend to chronicle Jackson's presidency, so his brief treatment of that part of Jackson's life was not especially surprising.  It was, however, disappointing for a number of reasons. <br />To begin with, Burstein hurls the gauntlet in his introduction at other Jackson biographers, especially \\"the reigning Jackson authority,\\" Robert Remini.  His basic criticism of Remini, who wrote a three-volume biography of Jackson, is that Remini bought into Jacksonian mythology a bit too much.  By contrast, Burstein sets as his goal writing about Jackson as he really was.  I found the assault on Remini to be odd and out of place.  Remini's last volume was published in 1984, so I'm not sure why Burstein felt the need to justify writing a new book.  More importantly, by contrasting his own book with Remini's, Burstein suggests a parallelism that doesn't really exist. THE PASSIONS OF ANDREW JACKSON is much more limited in scope than Remini's work.  Its focus is almost exclusively on who Jackson was rather than what he did.<br />Burstein falls short in not explaining enough what Jackson did.  He assumes the reader's familiarity with the Jackson record and policy-making style.  He alludes to important events associated with Jackson, such as the tragic \\"trail of tears,\\" without fully explaining Jackson's role. Burstein probably could have done the job with an additional 20 pages, but it almost seems that the author lost interest in his own work at the point Jackson became president.  The overall quality of the story degenerates after that. Burstein made his point already, the rest of Jackson's life is glossed over.  The final several pages of reflective, explanatory writing seems almost redundant, which is a problem in a short book.<br />What is Burstein's point?  It seems to be that Jackson was an impulsive, violent, unreflective man whose popularity was out of sync with his aptitudes for governing.  His success at arousing emotional public support for short-sighted policies was the dark side of democracy.   Beyond that, Burstein seems to very subtly be drawing a comparison between Jacksonian era politics and the politics of today, but this point is not developed probably because Burstein wanted his book to last.  But by including this implied, under-developed comparison at all he fails to develop other implications, such as the idea that the early founders' elitist republicanism may have been a superior form of governance (another of Burstein's implications).  In the end Burstein's only conclusions that stick are about Jackson's character, and not how any of this means anything larger.  <br />The most disappointing aspect of THE PASSIONS OF ANDREW JACKSON is that there hasn't been a well-known popular Jackson biography published for several years.  Jackson was too important a figure for \\"the reigning authority\\" to keep his crown for 20 years without a new contribution.  As enjoyable as THE PASSIONS OF ANDREW JACKSON is, if Remini holds the title, Burstein does not quite pose a threat to win it.	2003-06-01
US	52446508	R1V0KE1S0WDW7C	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Rise and Fall of the Morgentau Plan	THE CONQUERORS is a good case of you cant tell a book by its cover.  The cover features equally prominent portraits of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman, and the subtitle is Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitlers Germany, 1941-1945.  What this book should have been titled is The Rise and Fall of the Morgentau Plan, 1944-45.  The cover picture should have either exclusively been of Roosevelts treasury secretary, Henry Morgentau, or of Morgentau flanked by smaller pictures of a supporting cast including Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin, Henry Stimson, Cordell Hull, John McCloy and perhaps others.  Truman plays a decidedly small role in this book, but I guess he and Roosevelt are more recognizable than Morgentau and the rest of the Roosevelt cabinet, thus the book cover.<br />Roosevelt certainly is prominent in this account of Morgentaus attempt to commit the United States to a policy of reducing post-war Germany to a series of agrarian states.  But Ive never read a book in which Roosevelt comes off so bad.  Although author Michael Beschloss acknowledges, at the end of the book, that FDR made some important decisions throughout the war, the president in this story is a doddering, confused man creeping inexorably towards death.  While Beschloss tries to attribute a method of Roosevelts apparent madness (or senility), this explanation again comes at the end of the book and is not too convincing considering FDRs portrayal as being not only sick and confused, but vacillating and untrustworthy.   <br />Similarly, Morgentau is essentially the protagonist in this story, but Beschloss ultimately rejects his vision of a diminished Germany at the end of the book. Morgentau is portrayed as something like a tragic figure, but he also comes across as whiney, vindictive and sycophantic.  <br />These elements come together as a book that is almost as confused as Beschloss version of FDR.  In a sense, the book is too short.  There is no reason for the story to end in 1945 and not a few years later, after the Marshall Plan was implemented.  The book then could have had an arc beginning with consideration of the Morgentau Plan, revealing why that approach was rejected, and concluding with why the Marshall Plan worked.  Instead, whats left is part of the story, crammed between a questionably relevant anecdote about an assassination attempt against Hitler, and a highly compressed history of the first four years of post-war German history.  <br />Flawed though THE CONQUERORS is, it is fast paced and to some extent compelling.  But these stylistic strengths serve as a hint at what this book could have been, something better than it actually is.	2003-05-18
US	52446508	R28C0GBBAHZ2ZT	0684859394	951488262	One Scandalous Story: Clinton, Lewinsky, and Thirteen Days That Tarnished American Journalism	Books	5	8	11	N	N	One great storyteller	The first thing to understand about ONE SCANDALOUS STORY is that it is itself a story.  Marvin Kalb is an excellent storyteller.  A seasoned journalist and professor, Kalb is expert in taking information and presenting it in an interesting and compelling way.  He succeeds in doing that here, which is no small accomplishment as, at first blush, there's not much more to be said about the Clinton-Lewinsky story.  Beyond the way her writes, Kalb does add a new, or at least neglected wrinkle, which is the scandal of how the story was covered.  <br />Kalb's dissection of journalism's treatment of the unfolding drama in its earliest days is what this book is really about.  Kalb explains early on that he was looking for a subject to use as the centerpiece of a discussion about a number of observations he's made over his career about the impact of the press on public policy, how television affects politics and related topics.  As the name of the book implies, the developments over the past 30 years, culminating in the Clinton-Lewinsky story, are not good.<br />Kalb's account explains how coverage of the Clinton-Lewinsky story drove the sequence of events.   He demonstrates how poor sources, reporting of rumor, and saturation coverage magnified the significance of what was actually happening.  Kalb does not justify Bill Clinton's bad behavior, but he makes the point that coverage of that behavior was all out of proportion to what else was going on in the world - and how that coverage wasn't very good anyway.  (An interesting \\"other\\" development was the US-Iraq showdown of 1998.  The thought occurred to me that the Clinton-Lewinsky story could have derailed the American public's preparedness for a larger confrontation - sort of a reverse `wag the dog' phenomena.)  <br />Kalb is at his very best when he picks apart specific reports and bring a magnifying glass to the transcript of actual stories covering the Clinton-Lewinsky tale.  My only criticism of this book is that there isn't enough of that.  Where ONE SCANDALOUS STORY replays what happened between Clinton, Lewinsky, Ken Starr, etc. it takes away from its exploration of how the story was actually covered.<br />I also don't think that the end of ONE SCANDALOUS STORY is the end of the story.  If coverage of Clinton-Lewinsky represented the culmination of the press's degeneration, it also hastened the subsequent further decline.  Coverage of the 2000 election results, if anything, one-upped Clinton-Lewinsky in terms of bad journalism, and in a different but important way, coverage of the 2003 invasion of Iraq represented the complete meltdown of the kinds of journalistic standards Kalb is so concerned with.  <br />Hopefully, Kalb is thinking along the same lines and another book is forthcoming.  His point is too important to be made once.	2003-05-10
US	52446508	R1ZARS1R746V6F	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One hot freezer	THE DEMON IN THE FREEZER is a fitting follow up to Richard Prestons, THE HOT ZONE, the genre spawning suspense-novel like true story of ebola.  Like THE HOT ZONE, DEMON is about a hideous, disgusting disease (this time smallpox), written like fast-paced suspense fiction.   Though THE HOT ZONE inspired many similar books about killer diseases threatening the world, Preston alone seems to have a solid grasp on this type of book.  Yet, perhaps because DEMON so invites comparison to THE HOT ZONE, its small but significant deficiencies stand out by comparison.<br />THE HOT ZONE was structured like Michael Crichtons ANDROMEDA STRAIN.  The application of a novels structure to a true story helped hold that story together.  Preston relied on Crichton to set the pace, suggest where and how to insert suspense elements, and how to make the most of a story about disease.  Crichton is not credited (the relationship between the two books is probably closer to plagiarism), but if you read the two books back to back the influence is clear.  DEMON, though, is missing this type of cohesion.  <br /> DEMON tries to make two main points: smallpox is really, really nasty, and it could destroy civilization as we know it if used as a biological weapon.  To make the first point, Preston describes the effects of smallpox through the re-telling of historical stories.  This is where Preston is most suspenseful and scary.  <br />To make the second point, Preston jumps around stories about scientists and the scientific community, biological weapons programs, and the story, such as it is, of the anthrax attacks of 2001.  The anthrax case is relayed to make the point that a similar attack using smallpox would have been much, much worse.  The problem with this is that Preston goes too far down too many hallways that lead to blank walls.  Enough of the anthrax case is laid out that its lack of closure is a distraction from the main smallpox story.  Side dramas about researchers possibly being sick, possible infecting themselves with ebola, and possibly working on bio-weapons are unsatisfying red herrings.  <br />Fortunately, as often as Preston goes off on a tangent, he really cant go too far within the limited space of this short book.  The sheer visceral reaction I had to the book far outweighed its structural deficiencies. The smallpox of DEMON makes ebola seem insignificant by comparison (ebola is more fatal, at least than natural smallpox, but smallpox is far more contagious and thus more dangerous to the species).  If theres something worse than smallpox, Richard Preston will find it and doubtlessly turn it into a horror story.  That prospect is almost enough for me to wish there is such a disease out theresomewhere.	2003-04-12
US	52446508	R3PZRRYUCJ3E8I	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nothing original, but the formula still works	Michael Crichton likes to list non-fiction books that he used as source material for his novels.  There is a lengthy list at the end of PREY, but he left a large category of literature out: his own back catalogue.  PREY so heavily recycles Crichton's past premises, scenarios, character types, and clichés that had anybody else written it, that person would have been charged with plagiarism.  The cardboard characters, always two or three steps behind the reader, are more nauseating than the intentionally gooey parts of the book, especially early on when Crichton is establishing their innocence and normalcy.  Yet despite these flaws, nobody writes more suspenseful science fiction than Michael Crichton.  Along with all the cliches, Crichton manages to recycle the fast pace and genuine suspensfulness of some of his better, earlier books.<br />Beyond copying himself, Crichton's original inspiration has always been FRANKENSTEIN.   PREY, like so many of his books, is about humans pushing a hot, exotic science too far.  Instead of dinosaurs or should-have-been-left-alone warrior apes in the jungle, this time the monster is a swarm of omnipotent micro-cyborgs (actually, many such swarms).  All the old elements are there - the conniving female lead who is eventually consumed by the consequences of her own greed, the subtly political male (this time Crichton manages to inject a paragraph about father's rights) protagonist, the company that puts profits ahead of safety, and the team of scientists who get picked off one by one.  <br />How many times can these ingredients make a good soup?  I don't know, but the stew hasn't lost its flavor yet.  Since it is impossible to read this book in more than a week, there's no major commitment in taking it on, so I felt what I got what was worth what I put into it.	2003-04-01
US	52446508	R2AX71INRWXVS4	0743233212	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	4	8	10	N	N	We like Them	As any subtle, understated dryly comedic book about a serious topic should end, THEM sneaks a moral of the story into the last few pages of the book.  \\"Let's face it,\\" says the author's source, \\"nobody rules the world anymore.  The markets rule the world.  Maybe that's why your conspiracy theorists make up all those crazy things.  Because the truth is much more frightening.  Nobody rules the world.  Nobody controls anything.\\"   <br />THEM is ostensibly about people who passionately believe the exact opposite.  Jon Ronson discovered the common thread linking diverse extremists ranging from Klan members to British Islamic radicals to plain old conspiracy theorists is the belief that the world is controlled by a small group of globalist elites who meet in secret conferences.  While the extremists differ over whether these elites are Jews, Catholics or giant, shape-shifting lizards (really!) they agree that this secretive group is all-powerful.  <br />Ronson humorously (but oddly, respectfully) demonstrates how the extremists have real evidence to support their views.  When rich people get together, they often do weird things in groups and places with mysterious sounding names like the Bilderberg Group and Bohemian Grove.  Just like everyone else, they have their rituals, which can seem very strange to outsiders.  Their secretiveness (\\"we're not secret, just private\\" one of \\"them\\" counters) is the greatest fodder of all for the conspiracy theorists.  But beyond that, many of the conspiracy theorists are chased, censored, or called things worse than they actually are.  Ronson demonstrates that from their perspective, the world really does seem out to get them.<br />But some of the theories are just ridiculously funny.  The highlight of the book is a self-anointed profit David Icke who professes the lizard theory.  But Ronson takes pains not to heap it on - not to exaggerate the ridiculousness.  In so doing, he actually paints somewhat sympathetic portraits of some scaryindividuals.  He paints less sympathetic portraits of those who over-react to the extremists.   <br />Although THEM was published in 2002, it probably couldn't have actually been written since September 11th, 2001.  The seemingly harmless, blustering made-for-TV extremists of Ronson's book come off as much less funny today.  Still, Ronson's book sheds some light on how some people try to make sense out of our increasingly complex world.  He does it in a fast moving, good-humored way.  Perhaps for these reasons, THEM is more relevant now than ever.	2003-04-01
US	52446508	R1J37NK0ALN6UR	0805026983	452843971	Fire on the Prairie: Chicago's Harold Washington and the Politics of Race	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great political drama	FIRE ON THE PRAIRE is a good example of why the American reading public's narrow focus on national politics is so unfortunate.  There are thousands of political stories in the cities, counties and states of America that are never told because the presumed target audience is too small.  Thankfully, Gary Rivlin decided to tell the story of Harold Washington, Chicago's first black mayor.  <br />The book will appeal to anyone interested in politics, even if Chicago is of no particular interest.  City-level politics is politics at its most raw.  This story, set in the 1980's, features (literally) brawling aldermen, overtly race-based electoral appeals, bribery, graft and other interesting forms of corruption, and the more creative bad-mouthing that we'll likely ever hear on the national stage.  The cast of characters - real political figures - read like they walked out of central casting.  The impervious, heroic Mayor Washington, the nefarious but canny Ed Vrdolyak, the bumbling Jane Byrne, the barbaric Ed Burke, the big-talking con man Clarence McClaine, the ego-maniacal Jesse Jackson and on and on.  <br />An unusual feature of this book is that while Washington is the central character, the book is almost not about him so much as Chicago politics in the 1980s.  A third of the book devotees equal time to Washington and his arch-nemesis, Vrdolyak. Indeed, the Vrdolyak is painted with greater depth and may actually be quoted more than Washington.  Washington comes off as pretty much impervious to corruption, pettiness, and most of the regular dynamics of Chicago politics - but he also comes off as inaccessible.  The book plunges immediately into the political story without the customary 80 pages devoted to the central subject's early life.  Rivlin never writes, \\"Washington thought...\\" nor does he report on conversations that occurred between two people, neither of whom subsequently spoke with Rivlin.  The overall effect is double-edged - the story comes off as more credible but also Washington himself is left as something of a mystery.<br />A more serious problem with the book is that its fascinating emphasis on pure politics comes at the neglect of an in-depth exploration of Washington's policies.  Policies are certainly mentioned, but I retained more about how Washington made a difference in the life of his city from an hour-long radio show on him that from this 420-page book.  <br />The absence might be explained by what Rivlin explains is the difference between \\"white reform\\" and \\"black reform.\\"  Rivlin basically explains that white reformers are more concerned with process, where as black reformers are more concerned with results.  White reformers may decry cronyism and call for the elimination of patronage jobs.  Black reformers call for a more proportional share of the jobs.  FIRE ON THE PRAIRE is written with a greater sympathy for what Rivlin would characterize as the black style of reform.  The overarching point of the book was that Chicago's racial divisions were so great that residents (especially white residents) voted with their ethnicity against all considerations including logic and self-interest.<br />Washington's second term was cut tragically short by his untimely death.    Rivlin does a great job of creating the sense of unfinished business as he continues the story of Chicago's political turmoil for 20 pages after Washington's death, until a new, interim mayor was elected.  At that point I wanted to keep reading, but I also wanted to know what Washington was going to do next.  Unfortunately we'll never know.	2003-03-05
US	52446508	R3PKZDN045DCQ7	0312302711	327793217	The Girls in the Van: A Reporter's Diary of the Campaign Trail	Books	2	3	5	N	N	This bus is a bust	Having witnessed and to a very small degree participated in Hillary Clinton's 2000 senate campaign from my perch in Buffalo, I have been looking for a good chronicle and analysis of the experience.  After reading both HILLARY'S TURN and THE GIRLS IN THE VAN, I am still looking. THE GIRLS IN THE VAN is breezy and interesting, but it leaves far too much out (especially most of the upstate campaign).  Harpaz's book is as much or more about her experience  as a reporter than the campaign itself.  It wouldn't have taken much effort to turn the book into an argument about...something, but it isn't that either.  Consequently, there was surprising little sense of progression for a campaign book - I wasn't looking forward to the next chapter as much as I would have liked to have been.  <br />Campaigns lend themselves well to stories because the author doesn't need to think much about the beginning, middle and end - those are all unmistakable as the course of events unfolds.  The best campaign book I've read recently was the little known, RUNNING WITH THE MACHINE, by Dan Lynch.    That seemed to be about something, this one didn't. HILLARY'S TURN captures the spirit of the campaign better, but still misses much of the upstate detail.  Perhaps the problem has to do with downstate reporters simply pulling together their notes rather than researching the campaign beyond what they witnessed.  That may have been what happened here.  There remains a really good book waiting to be written about this campaign.	2003-01-28
US	52446508	R6DXUQNGLQTSI	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	3	28	35	N	N	Worthwhile, but nothing special	THE NATURAL was an enjoyable enough but misnamed book.  \\"The Natural\\" seems to refer to Clinton's natural proficiency as a political operator, yet Klein details the up and down, tumultuous presidency that we all remember.  Clinton's first two years were not that of a \\"natural,\\" nor was low point of his presidency leading up to his admission of an affair with \\"that woman.\\"  <br />The subtitle, \\"the misunderstood presidency,\\" is also misleading.  This book reveals no great new interpretation of the Clinton era but rather sums up the conventional wisdom:   Bill Clinton was a good, substantive president who failed to live up to his full potential and disappointed a lot of people with his personal behavior.  <br />While the title of THE NATURAL creates unmet expectations, the book serves a useful function.  In just over 200 pages, it captures the major themes and flavors of the Clinton presidency, gives just enough supporting evidence to back up Klein's instructive but not especially groundbreaking insights, and serves as the outline for what could be a truly great future book.  This book serves as a reminder of what the Clinton years were like (seemingly so long ago), but the book itself will probably not endure as especially memorable.<br />THE NATURAL won't endure because it is so short and light on details.  Joe Klein is a reporter, not an historian and the book reads like an extended ATLANTIC MONTHLY article.  This is not altogether bad - I felt like reading the book pretty much straight through as I would an article.  But the potential for a detailed, Robert Caro style biography of Clinton is a tempting future volume waiting for someone else to write.  <br />One final note: it bears mentioning that Klein seems admiring of Clinton.  Where Klein writes disapprovingly, he seems like a disappointed - almost betrayed - true believer.  He's clearly fascinated by Clinton and has a vision for what he could have been.  This admiring fascination becomes a little much when Klein begins shilling for the New Democratic movement.  Klein's journalistic credentials were hurt with the revelation that he wrote PRIMARY COLORS.  THE NATURAL doesn't help, but this kind of a book may be a good medium for his talents.	2003-01-09
US	52446508	R19MQLT2YLJ3PL	0679310061	296395282	Trudeau's Shadow: The Life and Legacy of Pierre Elliott Trudeau	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Canada's Madison, Lincoln and Kennedy all in one!	Pierre Elliott Trudeau was Canada's James Madison, Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy all in one.  This is not crystal clear from the perspective of the Canadian essayists who contributed to TRUDEAU'S SHADOW, but reading this book from the perspective of a U.S. citizen I got the impression that the Canadians may not have always fully appreciated what they had.<br />Trudeau was Canada's Prime Minister for nearly 16 years.  He was elected in the late 1960's during a wave of \\"Trudeaumania\\" where the politician was received (and dressed) like a rock star.  This aspect of Trudeau's idiom - his celebrity raised the hopes of many (some of whom would eventually be disappointed when Trudeau turned out to be a human public official after all). Trudeau's charisma/inspiration invites comparison to  Kennedy, but his similarity t American presidents does not end there.<br />Trudeau's vision of Canada was inseparably linked to the struggle for his native Quebec to find its place either within or outside the larger country.  Trudeau defied separatists and believed that Canada should be a country in which all Canadians would feel at home everywhere.  So, while he opposed separatism, he promoted bilingualism and promoted French-Canadians within his government.  But some Quebec separatists would not be satiated.  The movement actually got violent in 1970 as radicals launched a brief campaign of terror.<br />The terrorism was brief because Trudeau clamped down swiftly and decisively.  Although noted as a civil libertarian, Trudeau invoked the War Measures Act and sent tanks into the streets of Montreal.  Though these actions have eventually come to be viewed as heavy handed, they also worked.  Quebec separatism ceased being violent ever since. Though a few violent radicals is vastly different than a huge, organized region like the southern U.S. states that formed the Confederacy during the American Civil War, I could not help think of Lincoln while reading about Trudeau.  Who knows where the separatist movement would have led had Trudeau not established the parameters of acceptable protest activity early on.  As great a president as Lincoln was, imagine how much greater he would have been had he figured out an essentially non-violent was to end slavery and keep the country together.  This is what Trudeau did (perhaps, had Lincoln done the same, the significance of his achievement would have been under-appreciated).<br />One of the writers in TRUDEAU'S SHADOW, Guy Pratte, also compares Trudeau to Lincoln, but he makes a less favorable comparison.   Lincoln, according to Pratte, was more practical than Trudeau, willing to do whatever it took to save the union. Trudeau had his unity plan and stuck to it, often poking Quebec separatists in the eye, thus emboldening them.  The only problem with this view is that Canada has remained united, the separatist movement has been rejected at the polls time and time again, and again, violence is not one of the ways the conflict plays out.<br />Where Pratte saw Trudeau's most bull-headed was on the matter of a Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.   Yet, while this, perhaps Trudeau's greatest accomplishment, seemed like overkill to some, it also cemented his place as the father of the Canadian constitution, Canada's James Madison.  <br />When Trudeau first became Prime Minster, Canada was not yet entirely independent from Great Britain.  It had no written constitution, and Canadian civil liberties were not universally protected from one province to the next.  Patriation of the constitution and the establishment of a written bill of rights was one of Trudeau's long-term goals, which he finally achieved late in his tenure as Prime Minister. <br />The achievement was monumental in its scope.  The establishment of the Charters of Rights and Freedoms was the rare political feat that changed and helped define the character of a nation.   It has already affected the lives of every Canadian and helped define what it means to be Canadian.  <br />I learned all this in bits and pieces by reading TRUDEAU'S SHADOW.  The authors were writing for a Canadian audience and assumed that readers had a base understanding of modern Canadian history.  Although I essentially did not, reading a book like this was perhaps a more engaging activity than reading a strait chronological history because I needed to think in order to make sense of it.  <br />Although the essays were balanced between Trudeau fans and Trudeau critics, I was highly impressed with the composite Trudeau that emerges is a political giant with a titanic legacy.  If the Canadians don't fully appreciate what they have, they should only look to the south and compare.  If for one wish we in the states had our own Trudeau!	2003-01-02
US	52446508	R3DFPYM4FC7AHE	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Disappointing	LIVE FROM NEW YORK is a book that immediately doesn't live up to its potential.  Authors Tom Shales and James Andrew Miller had what seems like unprecedented access to just about everyone involved with Saturday Night Live other than Eddie Murphy and those who have passed away.  Their set of interviews had the potential to be the foundation of a well-researched history.  What is presented instead amounts to an oral history consistently mostly of paragraph-long anecdotes told by the cast, writers, producers and hosts of the show.  While this alone is inherently interesting, there is little interpretation, little context, and virtually no other research in this book.  As a result, much of significance is left out and too much irrelevant is left in.  <br />Although I'm sure the authors edited out some (probably most) of the words told to them by their interview subjects, they (the authors) would not interrupt a stream of thought chosen for inclusion in the book.  As a result, all the \\"ums,\\" \\"you knows,\\" fractured syntax and bad grammar that aren't noticed in conversation make otherwise bright people seem stupid and hard to understand in this book.  The flip side of the inclusion of this type of unintended language is that the context of several stories is often left to the reader's outside knowledge.  This is especially a problem as it relates to stories about specific sketches.  Sketches would be discussed, but rarely explained.  Those unfamiliar with these sketches will have little greater understanding after reading this book.  Overall, the specific sketches and routines that define the show were really under-explored in favor of behind-the-scenes personality stories.  All this is interesting enough, but also not nearly enough.<br />Outside critiques of the show are mostly unaddressed.  Some of the people interviewed acknowledge vague criticisms, but those criticism are not really explored.  Oddly, one internal criticism that crops up is a sense that some of the show's sketches tend not to end well, while the idea that sketches go on too long or ride one joke too far  is completely un-addressed.  Even the photo section of this book comes up short, as it features mostly photos of the bets known cast members while others who appear throughout the book, but are less well known remain faceless phantoms.  <br />The biggest disappointment about this book is that it could have been so much more.  The authors could have done some more secondary research, discussed the show's context during its times, and woven together a story in which the gaps (like the absence of commentary from Eddie Murphy, or some of the deceased stars) were less noticeable.  While reading this book I kept contrasting it to Bob Woodward's John Belushi biography, WIRED.  WIRED may have had a malicious slant, Woodward may not have appreciated Belushi, and he may have included untrue stories (as Dan Aykroyd asserts) - but it was a better story.  <br />Despite all that's wrong with the book, I thought it compelling enough to plow through in a few days.  I have probably never read a nearly-600 page book so quickly.  Again, the material is inherently interesting, but ultimately the product is disappointing.	2002-12-29
US	52446508	R22PF8B3NM2DY8	0743203984	503232720	Flu: The Story Of The Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus that Caused It	Books	2	2	4	N	N	A sickly imitation of THE HOT ZONE	Gina Kolata seems frustrated that Richard Preston had such a big hit with THE HOT ZONE.  She refers to that book, and the Ebola virus a few times in FLU as if to say, \\"If you think Ebola was bad, get a load of MY virus!\\"  True to form, FLU is modeled after THE HOT ZONE: first is the tale of a disgusting killer disease.  Then comes the story of the scientists who try to make sense of it.  Thrown in is the story of a big false alarm.  Finally... the medical mystery remains unsolved.   If this sounds familiar, it should come as no surprise that FLU doesn't work nearly as well as the original.  Which is ironic since THE HOT ZONE wasn't especially original.  The problem is that while THE HOT ZONE is a true story cleverly structured after the fictional Michael Crichton novel, THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN, Kolata apes THE HOT ZONE too jealously.  There's nothing clever about it.  The story could have been told better differently.  <br />The subtitle of FLU is \\"The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus that Caused It.\\"  In telling this story, Kolata stresses how underexaminded the pandemic was (and is).  She makes a point about how it is ignored in textbooks, not spoken of by older folks, and all but forgotten by our culture, despite the millions who died as a result.  Yet Kolata falls victim of this very phenomena by rushing the \\"story of the Great Influenza Pandemic\\" too quickly before launching into the story of the Swine Flu fiasco and the yet-unrealized search by scientists for the original killer virus.  The first part of this book, the story of the pandemic itself, works - it is scary and engaging.  The rest drags.<br />In the years since THE HOT ZONE, an epidemic of killer virus books have spread like the flu.  FLU is not a long book, so fans of this genre will not be entirely disappointed.  But the basic idea has been done before, and done better.	2002-12-14
US	52446508	R5LWGIOHAQX5D	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Masterful	MASTER OF THE SENATE was one of the best books I have ever read.  I read the book this summer and chose not to write this review for a few months to reflect on that thought for a while.  It's true.  This is the perfect meeting of an inherently fascinating figure (Lyndon Johnson) with a masterful researcher and writer (Caro) through the vehicle of an important yet under-examined period of American history.  <br />So much has been written about Johnson that a thousand-page biography has a massive challenge in just offering something new.  Caro meets this challenge in several ways:  First, the book is as much about the U.S. Senate as it is about Johnson himself.  I am aware of no other book that focuses on the Senate in the 1950s, and in that way alone this book is highly original.  Second, Caro returns to the form he perfected in THE PATH TO POWER by delving into detail so precise that 1000 pages are necessary to get the whole story out.  A lesser work containing the same information would be dull, but Caro's craft is finding beauty in detail.  His first Johnson biography achieves beauty - it really changed the way biographies are written - in more than 800 pages devoted to Johnson's early life.  With MASTER OF THE SENATE Caro again creates a story written well enough to be enjoyed for its writing alone.  I suppose he could write a gripping stiory about just about anyone or any thing, but given Johnson's personality, accomplishments, contradictions and drama-quality, Caro had the perfect subject to apply his talents.    <br />This is a tremendous relief after 1990's disappointing MEANS OF ASCENT.  In that book, Caro makes the most of his story telling skills, but the story he tells is misleading and too black and white.  The Johnson of that book is to villainous, his rival, Coke Stevenson, actually a right-wing racist good-old-boy governor, too angelic.  The preface of MEANS OF ASCENT describes a thrilling scene from Johnson's presidency for balance, to set up a \\"light\\" and \\"dark\\" thread analogy as an excuse why the story that follows is so very one sided.  Not so with MASTER OF THE SENATE.  Caro's Johnson emerges as far more complex, far more gray than the character in his earlier book.  Occasionally, Caro may go a little too far in drawing attention to Johnson's good side.  As if smarting from criticisms of his MEANS OF ASCENT, Caro occasionally stops the narrative to explain how this or that act of Johnson  was so very, very, very important for the future of the free world.  Caro doesn't need to do that - the story speaks for itself.  <br />MASTER OF THE SENATE contains several mini-biographies of other figures, such as Richard Russell and Hubert Humprey who play important parts in the larger story.  The book's first hundred pages is not about Johnson at all, but a history of the Senate up to the time Johnson entered it.  Again, a lesser author would have botched this.  Instead of being distracting, these side stories are engrossing and help establish the richness of the whole work.  <br />Strom Thurmond doesn't get his own mini-biography, but as the last member of the Senate still in office from the time of this story, he serves as sort of a yardstick measuring how far we've come.  Thurmond was one of the mist virulent racists in a Senate largely controlled by virulent racists.  After one particularly venomous speech, one arch-segregationist commented that \\"Strom really believes this [racist] stuff.\\"  The comment is striking especially in the wake of the recent controversy over Trent Lott's comments.  The implication seems to be that the one segregationist Senator more or less felt compelled to race-bait for political reasons, which Thurmond was a true believer.  This makes the praise he has received for \\"overcoming\\" his prejudices now that he's 100 (and African Americans can vote) somewhat suspect.  It also makes Lott's apology suspect - would today's \\"master of the senate\\" preferred to have been elected 50 years earlier?If he was, which side of the great 1957 Civil Rights Bill  battle would he have been on?  <br />If this seems like a digression, it is meant more to be a reflection on how a serious history like MASTER OF THE SENATE has real relevance for contemporary citizens.  It is not only a good book and an interesting story - it is an important source of civic information.  It took Caro 12 years between his last book and this, but after reading MASTER OF THE SENATE I can hardly wait for his next one.	2002-12-14
US	52446508	R2J4OSJ297ZNYO	0767904141	339262282	Close to Shore: The Terrifying Shark Attacks of 1916	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Shallow, but with a bite	CLOSE TO SHORE reminds me of books like THE HOT ZONE, THE PERFECT STORM and A CIVIL ACTION, nonfiction books written like suspense novels.  Like those books, this one works.  It is a fun, if scary, compelling story.  Because it is real, it is more interesting and has the feel of being weightier than, say JAWS.<br />Of course, CLOSE TO SHORE isn&#146;t really weightier than JAWS.  Its nonfiction status is almost incidental.  Capuzzo&#146;s storytelling skills are not unlike Peter Benchley&#146;s.  Benchley apparently based his most famous book o the same series of events, only he exaggerated a little more.  Similarly, Capuzzo tells the story so that it makes the best story rather than convey the most solid facts.  The reason I know this is because Capuzzo admits as much.  He tells the story of a rouge shark that is apparently captured at the end.  After the capture, Capuzzo hints that some of the premises of his story are questionable.  No matter, the book is fun.<br />As enjoyable as CLOSE TO SHORE is, Capuzzo does miss a few opportunities.  He mentions that the presence of a German sub off the East Coast competed with the shark in the summer of 1916 for headlines and the imagination of fearful Americans.  He does not, however, explore how the pedestrian and largely imagined horror of the shark was compared to what would come with World War I and the Flu epidemic of 1918.  Capuzzo hints at this (at least he hints at the contrasts with the horrors of war, not the Flu), but he doesn&#146;t really do much with this.  Aside from the people directly involved, the mass hysteria about the shark was largely fake, yet it was so much easier to grasp than the vast devastation of World War I.  As for the Flu, the public wanted to forget, if hardly acknowledge, the microorganism that killed millions while a shark fit perfectly into the pre-established beast from the abyss myth.  In this way, the shark stood in as a way to help make sense of imminent terrors too tough to accept at face value.   Such metaphors became obsolete soon, but in 1916 it was needed.  Perhaps if the shark didn&#146;t attack, something like it would have been invented.   <br />Capuzzo&#146;s story is interesting enough, but it is as shallow and sensational as the story must have been when it was happening.  Still, it is very much worth reading.	2002-11-11
US	52446508	R1GYEO3PSXNA8W	1557731233	932875476	For Your Eyes Only (James Bond)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Bond works better in novels than short stories	For Your Eyes Only<br />For Your Eyes Only, a compiliation of James Bond short stories, doesn't work.  It is best read by Bond fans who either want to read  all the books in chronological order (however, there is no continuity between this book and the others, so that hardly matters), or Bond fans who want to say they read every Bond story Fleming published.  But it is not very good.  The book includes the following short stories:<br />\\"From a View to a Kill\\"<BR>\\"From a View to a Kill\\" is possibly the shortest of all James Bond stories.  As such it is hardly developed and doesn't leave much impact.  It is hardly worth considering as a story, but rather as Ian Fleming's scratch pad.  Considered in this way the story is interesting for some of its elements.<br />Fleming is at his best when describing Bond's meals and drinks.  \\"From a View to a Kill\\" contains an obligatory meal scene that works especially well.  Fleming not only describes food and drink in exacting detail, but manages to turn these descriptions into commentaries on the culture and society of the meals' location.  This time Anglo-centric  unleashes his opinions on has-been post-war Paris.  In the process he manages to reveal some interesting background points about Bond's early life.  But all this quickly evaporates into more of an action/detective in which Bond investigates a murder.<br />Fleming's stories usually include a point during which a plot or a scheme is revealed to be bigger than it first appeared.  Bond discovers what he suspected to be the case, that the murder was an assassination by unearthing a hidden underground base of sorts.  The logic of this thing's existence and purpose are hardly believable, but the gadgetry of the place is interesting because it is a step beyond what had been typical for Fleming up to this point.  Indeed, the rose-periscope and bush-door seem more like something out of the Roger Moore Bond movies, still years away.  It is worth noting that \\"From a View to a Kill\\" has nothing at all in common with the Roger Moore movie, A VIEW TO A KILL, other than the name and the setting in France.<br />\\"From a View to a Kill\\" is too short to skip, but it ultimately isn't very satisfying.  <br />\\"For Your Eyes Only\\"<BR>After re-reading the second short story in FOR YOUR EYES ONLY (also titled, \\"For Your Eyes Only,\\" I reached the conclusion that James Bond works much better in novels than in short stories.  This is in part because this short story, much as the last one, left me wonder why I was reading it.  While the story had action, it lacked the type of suspense, plot development, and surprise endings that move the Bond novels along.  Also, that I had completely forgotten most of this story from my first reading of it many years ago was telling.  \\"For Your Eyes Only\\" is more of a story than From A View to a Kill,\\" but it is still a scratch pad of sorts, interesting more for ancillary reasons than for the story itself.<br />Still, these ancillary reasons are worth mentioning.  Bond's job is never more illicit than in this story.  He is sent to commit an assassination more or less as a personal favor for his boss, not as an official governmental act.  He struggles with this a bit, and a different type of writer could have made more out of that struggle than Fleming does.  But he trudges along to carry out his assignment.  This story, perhaps more than any of the novels, establishes Bond as a \\"cold blooded killer.\\"<br />One of the features of Bond stories that I enjoy is their 1950's setting.  Fleming wrote from the 50's, obviously without any knowledge of how the future would unfold or how his time and thought process would be viewed years after he committed them to paper.  The alieness of  all of this is stark in \\"For Your Eyes Only.\\"  The target of Bond's assassination attempt is a former Nazi, who had recently been inn the employ of Cuba's dictator, Battista.  Battista was still in power when Fleming was writing, and Castro is mentioned not only sympathetically, but as an admirable quasi-ally.  He certainly isn't one of the Communists under just about every bush Bond looks under in most of the novels.<br />Neither the Nazi origins of the villain, Von Hammerstein, or even the villain's name, ever make it into any of the Bond films.  But much of this short story does.  For such a weak story, I was interested that most of it made it into the movie version of FOR YOUR EYES ONLY.  The movie was bigger, and the short story really comprised about a quarter of the film, but I was reminded once again that some of the Bond films improved upon the stories rather than just borrowing the names.<br />\\"Quantum of Solace\\"<BR>\\"Quantum of Solace\\" is only superficially a James Bond story.  Oddly, then, it is the most interesting and compelling at least of the first three stories in FOR YOUR EYES ONLY.  Bond is in Jamaica on assignment, but the story is not about the assignment.  In this one, Bond mostly listens to a story within the story, told by the colonial governor of Jamaica, with whom he had just had dinner.  This story within the story is the thrust of \\"Quantum of Solace.\\"  It has nothing to do with espionage, action, or adventure.  Rather, it is a brief tale about a failed relationship.  That's it.  Somehow Fleming manages to make it interesting.  I was wondering where the story was going and was caught off guard by its mild, but unexpected surprise ending.  In this regard, Fleming achieves on a small level some of what he otherwise better captures through novels than short stories.  While \\"Quantum\\" has little to do with Bond (or, more accurately, Bond has little to do in Quantum), it is the most enjoyable story so far in this collection.  <br />\\"Risco\\"<BR>A good portion of the plot of the movie, For Your Eyes Only, is taken from this short story.  After reading this and the short story version of FYEO, I came to a greater appreciation of the movie-maker's desire to blend the two stories together into a coherent one that remains as faithful as could be hoped to a couple of short stories.  <br />\\"Risco\\" plays out the Kristatos-Columbo rivalry around which the plot of the movie turns.  Of all the short stories in this book it is the one that most resembles the previous Bond novels.  It involves a mission to a foreign land, colorful characters, a devious villain with vague ties to Russia, and in Columbo, an ally somewhat reminiscent of Karim Bey in From Russia with Love.  Nevertheless, \\"Risco\\" is not as good as any of the previous books, probably in part because it is not developed like a full novel.  Also, not for the first time, while reading it I felt that the moviemakers did this story better.  I was actually somewhat bored reading it.  <br />There are no great surprises in \\"Risco,\\" perhaps because we all know Kristatos, not Columbo, is the real villain.  Nothing special is revealed about Bond's past or his predilections.    As with most of the rest of the short stories in this compellation, \\"Risco\\" seems more like the outline of a story than a complete work.  <br />\\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\"<BR>After being worked over by the somewhat boring \\"Risco,\\" \\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\" delivers the knockout punch.  For Your Eyes Only saves the worst for last.  It is significant to note that very little of this short story made its way into any Bond movie to day.  \\"Milton Krest,\\" the character that passes for a villain in this one, and his boat, The Wavekrest, appear in the movie, License to Kill, but only in name.  The story of \\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\" is lost in the final pages of this book.<br />\\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\" contains one of the worst elements of Bond stories: Bond is basically an observer of events here.  How and why he ends up in the situation of the story, which has nothing to do with spying or even government work, is murky at best.  The story is basically a reverse mystery, a Murder on the Orient Express set on a ship, with an all-too-easy search for a rare fish thrown in, and one twist.  Fleming's twists are usually the capstones to his Bond novels, but here the twist is that the mystery is never solved.  Indeed, the build up to the crime is too long, and the aftermath is wholly inadequate.  It is almost as if Fleming got tired of this story and just put it down.  I did too.	2002-11-03
US	52446508	R1KZUANJ35EHH3	0425183327	304004391	Zodiac Unmasked: The Identity of America's Most Elusive Serial Killer Revealed	Books	1	12	19	N	N	A huge disappointment	Robert Graysmith's first book, ZODIAC, was probably the scariest thing I have ever read.  I literally had Goosebumps reading it and the hair on my arms stood up.  I felt compelled to stay up all night reading the book, which was more compelling than any suspense novel.  So it was with high expectations (but some wondering what there was left to write) when I picked up ZODIAC UNMASKED.  I was greatly disappointed.  Do not make the same mistake.<br />Everything that made ZODIAC so scary is absent from ZODIAC UNMASKED.  Foremost is the sense of mystery.  In this latest book, Graysmith names his Zodiac suspect early on.  The rest of the book is basically a rambling biography of this deceased individual, who was recently all-but cleared by DNA tests performed after Graysmith's book was published (so I won't mention his name).  The Zodiac of ZODIAC was a mystery man, who struck for unknown reasons, taunted police with mysteriously encrypted letters and wore a bizarre costume for reasons unknown.  Even the number of his victims was a mystery, ranging from as few as five to many times that.  All is disappointingly explained (sometimes unconvincingly) in ZODIAC UNMASKED.<br />Many of Graysmith's explanations come off as far fetched, such as his speculation that Zodiac's victims were in part chosen to leave obscure hints about Zodiac's true name.  Though Graysmith, who once mused that Zodiac could have been responsible for any number of serial killings on the west coast spanning more than 20 years, more or less concludes that the killer was responsible for five homicides, which while terrible is also less interesting.  <br />More intriguing, Graysmith speculates near the end of ZODIAC UNMASKED that the victims were not chosen at random.  But the book is too long and too disjointed.  By this point in the book, I was more interested in finishing it that learning anything from it.   Graysmith's credibility had also all-but evaporated by this point, too, after reading speculationfrom psychics, side-stories about such \\"mysteries\\" as whether Zodiac and the Unibomber were the same person, and detail after stultifying and irrelevant detail about the life of Graysmith's boring lead suspect.  The chief element missing from Graysmith's original book is the hand of a good editor.  <br />ZODIAC UNMASKED could have been much more interesting.  Graysmith could have presented his case, well, like a case rather than the story of the life of his victim.  As he chose the story route, his frequent interruptions of that story with various side explorations became on the one hand distracting, and on the other somewhat tantalizing.  Graysmith, for instance, devoted a few pages to three Zodiac copycat killers, all of whom were caught.  Their stories may have been more interesting - and suspenseful --  than this one.  As it is, ZODIAC UNMASKED is a whodunit with the mystery solved early on.  Everything that comes after rather than sustaining interest sparks skepticism.  What's left is a book that is not suspenseful, mysterious, scary or even convincing.  It is simply long.  There is no reason to read ZODIAC UNMASKED.	2002-11-03
US	52446508	R2F2Y4Z7VBQJTA	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	4	26	43	N	N	Liars & Losers	Fortunately, you can't tell a book by its cover.  That cliché occurred to me while I was reading Lying About Hitler.  The cover features a close up of a youthful, determined Hitler and big red letters.  The biggest of those letters were H-I-T-L-E-R, while in relatively small type, against a white backdrop beneath the main picture is the legend, \\"History, Holocaust and the David Irving Trial.\\"  <br />The cover is misleading because the book is about Irving, not Hitler.  It dawned on me while reading the book that most Americans probably don't know who David Irving, a Holocaust-denying, self-professed \\"historian,\\" is.  The implication of the cover, with its almost handsome, not obviously crazy or evil picture of Hitler could be that the book is a defense of Hitler.  Perhaps ironically, the cover implies that the book is exactly the kind of work its author meticulously discredits.  Fortunately, this is not so.<br />What Lying About Hitler is, is an exposure of David Irving and a thorough explanation of how he creates evidence, doctors evidence, or quotes out of context to support his pro-Nazi versions of history.  I have heard of Irving, perhaps because of \\"his\\" trial (which was the inspiration for this book).  But I don't know how prominent he is here in the US.  From the book I get the impression he is a genuine celebrity in Great Britain.  <br />The most striking thing about David Irving was the elaborateness of his lies.  Irving does not merely make up sources, but he finds sources, cites them, and manipulates them in one way or another.  He may translate a document wrong, add something that wasn't there, give credit to a discredited document, obscure the citation, or something else apparently with the intent of creating a hard-to-penetrate smoke screen.  The time and effort he must put into this approach is startling.  Why do the research at all?  Why not just make things up out outright?  Evans' efforts as an expert witness in \\"Irving's\\" trial (he actually wasn't on trial, but was the plaintiff) demonstrated two things: First, that simply checking Irving's sources reveals him to be a fraud; and second, that it is tough to check Irving's sources.  <br />Again, though, why?  Irving apparently is not alone in his weird ways.  There is apparently an international subculture of Holocaust deniers who go to great lengths to convince themselves that they are right.  What is their goal?  To revive fascism?  Is this a slightly circuitous way to express anti-Semitism?  The whole enterprise has an air of ridiculousness about it reminiscent of rumors that men never landed on the moon.<br />What Evans is trying to do with his book is to raise a point about the nature of history.  Is it possible to know anything?  Irving discredits thousands of eyewitness accounts from Holocaust survivors.  He questions the legitimacy of any piece of evidence suggesting that the Nazi's policy of Jewish extermination came from Hitler.  Although he doesn't deny that many Jews died, he rejects evidence that concentration camps were designed to kill millions of Jews.  Evans' point is interesting and fairly easily made: there is such a thing as \\"beyond a reasonable doubt,\\" and Irving's doubts are simply unreasonable.  At the same time, Evans' point seems less interesting than further exploration of Irving's strange subculture.  \\"Irving's\\" trial was really a libel trial he brought against Deborah Lipstadt, author of, Denying the Holocaust, about this bizarre group.  Now I want to read that book, too.	2002-10-12
US	52446508	R1VLL7UG0E7XRK	0142002046	20078142	Goldfinger (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Golden	Goldfinger is the first James Bond book in which Bond actually spies.  In previous Bond books, 007 is a detective at best, or just along for the ride as events unfold more or less beyond his control at worst.  In contrast, Bond in Goldfinger makes covert observations, follows his subject at a distance, and infiltrates his opponents' organization in order to ascertain information.  There.  Now James Bond is a spy.<br />This Bond is also funnier and smarter than his past incarnations.  Bond seems to have a personality.  While he is still somewhat gullible (the degree to which he falls for \\"old tricks,\\" such as when he's captured in the airport near the end of this book, strains credulity), he also uses his wits more than in earlier books.  All this makes for an interesting story that is sufficient enough a departure from its predecessors to remain engaging.<br />Still, GOLDFINGER retains some fairly typical problems characteristic of Fleming's Bond stories.  Key plot developments turn on incidents that make little sense or are simply unbelievable. Goldfinger keeps Bond alive because Bond offered to help.  Goldfinger essentially hires him as a secretary.  Didn't he already have a secretary?  Wasn't relying on Bond risky on the face of it?  Later, Pussy Galore turns on Goldfinger for reasons that go completely unexplained.  <br />The movie version of GOLDFINGER acknowledges these plot holes and improves upon the stories.  It fixes the most glaring problem in the story, which is the utter impossibility of moving all the gold out of Fort Knox in a short period of time.  In the movie, Goldfinger has no intention of moving it, but in the book he initially gets away with 20 tons of it.    <br />But James Bond books are supposed to be fantasies.  An unintended contribution to the fantastic setting is the 1950s perspective of the books.  Fleming was not aware that he was writing in an alien world, but that's how the world seems half a century later.  At one point, Goldfinger explains to Bond what karate is, telling him that Oddjob is one of only three black belts in the world.  Fleming's overt racism (in this case towards Koreans and, to a lesser extent, Germans) is also somewhat alien compared to contemporary novels.  <br />With the exception of the racism, all the quirks of GOLDFINGER and the other Fleming Bond novels are part of their charm. GOLDFINGER is far from perfect, but its fun.	2002-08-17
US	52446508	R1HA9NIDJHWDCN	9992975733	816153289	Dr. No	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Dr. Maybe	DR. NO is fun to read but it is also a disappointment.  The first problem is that James Bond very distinctly died in the last book, FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE.  As Arthur Conan Doyle did with Sherlock Holmes, Ian Fleming must have decided that Bond deserved to be resurrected, but he does so unconvincingly.  Bond didn't really die from the sure-fire poison of Rosa Kleb, he was resuscitated and made it through.   <br />Conan Doyle is not the only classic adventure writer Fleming borrows from in DR. NO - there's Edgar Rice Burroughs and Jules Verne in here, too.  Also, strangely, there's a little of the bird guide written by a long forgotten ornithologist with the boring name of James Bond from which Fleming got the name.  All of this meshes together well as a pulp fantasy-adventure book except the part about the birds.  <br />Birds, absent from the movie version (which, along with THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, is one of the only two movies to actually improve upon the Fleming novel), play a central role in DR. NO.  Their presence however is ridiculous, and their contribution to the death of Dr. No is about the silliest moment in the entire James Bond series.<br />The problems with DR. NO don't stop with the birds.  Bond once again makes his way along by his physical endurance rather than his wits.  Sure enough, Bond suspects foul play when other authorities don't, and this time he picks up a few obvious clues that he nevertheless would have missed in prior books, but he always muscles his way out of a jam.  The reader then cannot admire the way Bond thinks, or the way Fleming devises clever situations.  As with most Bond novels, the reader is left to admire how Fleming puts together words.<br />Fortunately, Fleming can still put together words quite well.  Despite DR. NO's faults, it somehow works out to be the most exciting Bond novel of the series thus far.   The book is basically a string of fantastic action scenes, interspersed with characteristic descriptions of food, drink and Bond's surroundings.  This is what Fleming excels at, and he may have had an upper hand in writing this book because he set it mostly on Jamaica where he lived and the nearby Crab Key.  <br />Each Bond book contains certain genuine surprises.  While none can surpass the surprise ending of FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, DR. NO does not disappoint in this regard.  The biggest shock is the extent to which Bond kills in cold blood here.    Bond murders at least four unsuspecting guards, participates in a (mildly) torturous interrogation of  a young woman, and ends up sleeping with a girl half his age (though he resists her throughout the book).  Combined with his familiar superhumanly heavy drinking and smoking, this rougishness substitutes for character in maintaining Bond as interesting.<br />On the whole, I get the sense from DR. NO that Ian Fleming was tired of his main character and wanted to write a different kind of book.  As a \\"different kind of book\\" it works, and it is fun to read.  Many of the later John Garner and Raymond Benson books seem to follow the DR. NO fantasy model, and that is too bad.  Fleming gets away with it because nobody does it better.	2002-07-08
US	52446508	RP99DPAZT3UW3	1567310532	215240726	From Russia, With Love (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	5	78	87	N	N	From the 50s with Love	FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE is generally considered to be the very best James Bond book.   In this case, conventional wisdom is right.   I recently re-read the book, originally published in 1957, and it was even better than I remember it being.<br />First, the flaws:  Like most Flemming novels, much of the plot is implausible.  The story revolves around a scheme by the Soviets to embarrass the British Secret Service by killing James Bond in a compromising position.  Perhaps it is because we live in a post-Monica Lewinski world, but this doesn't seem to be that much of a big deal. The movie version of FRWL seems to acknowledge the weakness of the reasoning behind the sequence of events that make up the story.  The movie makes Bond's planned embarrassing death a secondary consequence of the villains' (this time SPECTER, not the Soviets) plot to steal the Russian decoder, which in the book is merely used as bait. <br />Another common problem with Flemming's Bond, which is again on display, is that he is rather gullible and pretty much goes along for the ride without using his wits to solve mysteries or get out of jams.  In FRWL he misses obvious clues, believes a thinly disguised enemy agent enough to hand over his gun without much of a thought, and fails to ever put \\"two and two together.\\"  <BR> <BR>Despite all the flaws, FRWL is a great book.  If the plot has holes, the collection of words are beautiful in themselves, from Flemming's detailed description of food and drink, to the combat scenes that really come to life in this book.  The character of Bond is more interesting here than in previous books - he demonstrates a sense of humor and playfulness, shows emotion and even has moments of reflection.   <br />The series of villains, while cartoonish, are fun.  The lurking presence of Red Grant is menacing.  Bond's interactions with the villains forms the basis for the series of events that make the story flow.  Once the silly premise is accepted, the rest of the sequence of events makes a certain amount of sense.  This internal coherence (which was missing to some degree in DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER) added with a fast pace makes the book hold together and never seem slow or dull.<br />What separates FRWL from the other books, however, is that it contains some genuine surprises, including its truly unexpected ending.  The ending is even more unexpected because it is explained away in DR. NO.  But the ending should be read for what it is in the context of the book itself, not in the larger context of the series.  <br />Finally, one of the things I enjoy about Flemming's Bond books is that because they were written in the 1950's, they have a feel for a different world, with different values, assumptions, and cultural icons.  This differentness is on full display in FRWL.  While I have no illusions of the world depicted in Bond books having any resemblance to actual history, the transportation into another world is achieved more purely than could be by a contemporary author writing a period piece.   I love it!	2002-06-23
US	52446508	R2IMU6EEQQ5WGQ	1567310508	43762575	Diamonds Are Forever (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	3	27	30	N	N	A flawed gem	DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER marks the point in the James Bond series where Ian Fleming begins to tinker with the absurd.  Later in the series, Dr. No is killed by falling guano, and Blofeld holds up on a Japanese \\"suicide island.\\"  In DAF, Bond takes a mud bath and fights a gangster who dresses up like a cowboy.  Fleming writes that the gangster \\"should have looked ridiculous, but he didn't\\" in his western regalia.  Funny, his description reads like he looks ridiculous.<br />All of Fleming's Bond books are worth reading, and DAF is no exception.  But this isn't his strongest work.  The theme switches from gangsters to western to Agatha Christy-esque cruise-ship drama.  It doesn't really all hold together.  Fleming also keeps introducing new villains.  He is most effective with Wint and Kidd, who have an ominous presence throughout the book.  Fleming perfects the ominous presence with Donovan Grant in his next book, FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, but Wint and Kidd are adequately eerie and threatening.  <br />Less effective are the Spang brothers.  The Spangs seem to be the embodiment of Fleming's inability to make up his mind about who his villain was going to be.  What little personality these characters have (along with appearance and even one of their names) changes almost every time they are mentioned.   They don't catch on as other Bond villains do, which is perhaps why they didn't translate even in name into any Bond movie.<br />Another flaw of the book, and to some degree the series, is that Bond seems to be going along for the ride in DAF.  He forgets or doesn't notice the most obvious clues (and is surprised by Wint and Kidd), lets his guard down at the mud baths, and generally doesn't prove why he's so special.  He and the girl, Tiffany Case, come close to falling in love...but why?  The relationship seems very shallow.  Finally, DAF is not really a spy novel.  Bond is acting more like a detective than a spy.  The reader is continuously reminded that these gangsters are just as tough as Russian spies and whatnot, but the reminder is only repeated because the story just isn't played out on as grand a stage as the cold war.  <br />DAF has its strengths.  Ian Fleming could have probably written a description of the contents of his refrigerator in an interesting way.  For me, the settings of this book are familiar as well - it was neat to read about Bond staying at a hotel that I also stayed at.  There's less 1950's atmosphere in this book than the others (another selling point for the other books), but DAF remains a genuine Bond novel, better than anything then non-Fleming Bond authors could produce.  While not the best, Diamonds are Forever is at least enduring.	2002-05-24
US	52446508	R17GFNT1T5K13	1567310559	234813261	Moonraker (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The First "Grand" Bond Story	MOONRAKER is Ian Flemming's third James Bond novel, though it is really the first to shape up like what would become a \\"typical\\" Bond story.  It is the first Bond drama on a grand scale - the first during which an atomic weapon threatens a Western city (in this case, London).  The stakes in the previous two books were much smaller, the consequences of Bond's struggle much less significant.  The story holds together better than many Flemming novels, and thankfully, the book shares virtually nothing with the awful Roger Moore movie of the same name.<br />MOONRAKER would actually make a great movie if adapted faithfully from the book.  Although it was written as a modern spy story in the 1950s, it is really a period piece that captures the fantasies of a moment in time.  Hugo Drax, the villain, is a Nazi now sabotaging the British for the Soviets.  When the book was written, Nazis were very much on the minds of the young WWII vets reading Bond novels.  The Soviets were presumed to be essentially just like Nazis, and their new atomic threat was ominous - if only there was some way for them to get their bomb to London.  The Moonraker does the job both as a state-of-the-art long (for the time) range missile, and also because it was being fired from England into England.  <br />At the time, the premise, that Soviet spies are everywhere, must have been a British version of McCarthyism.  But the story is about Britain turning to Drax, posing as an eccentrically heroic millionaire, to build the country's first atomic rocket.  In retrospect, this is a cautionary tale against privatization.  While whatever McCarthyites served in Parliament at the time must have liked this story, later Thatcherites probably hoped to keep it hidden.  <br />Though the scale of MOONRAKER was the most ambitious yet for Flemming, the book contains some already familiar elements.  As in CASINO ROYAL, a card game plays a key role in the story.  This time Bond suspects that Drax may not be all that he appears to be because he cheats at an exclusive British gambling club.   As with LIVE AND LET DIE, and most of the following Bond books, the villain is physically grotesque so that he both looks and acts like a monster.  And again like the previous book, the villain's henchmen are all of one ethnic group (this time Germans), playing upon all the stereotypes of that ethic group (they are ridged, sadistic, mechanical Nazis scientists).  <br />Finally, the villain's activities are ultimately in the service of the Russians.   The role of the Soviets as the secret backers of all things evil in the world is distinctly absent in the Bond movies.  In the early movies, SPECTER (which appears in the later Bond books) serves as a non-political substitute for the Russians, but  the entire premise of the literary Bond's life and work is that commies are around every corner, lurking in every back ally.  <br />Bond of the books is distinguished from his movie-self in other ways as well - he smokes more, eats conspicuously unhealthy foods and drinks like an alcoholic.  Although this Bond is smart, he is not the walking encyclopedia of the films (and often takes longer than the reader to figure out fairly obvious mysteries).  In this book, the Bond girl is at least as responsible for saving the day as Bond, and a conventional bureaucrat named Vallance shares in the credit as well.  <br />The books are more brutal on Bond and his friends.  He \\"dies\\" in the later, FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, Felix Leiter is permanently maimed in LIVE AND LET DIE, and the Bond girl, a guilt-ridden double agent, kills herself in CASINO ROYAL.  Bond merely gets pummeled over and over again in MOONRAKER, but perhaps more painful for the character - he doesn't get the girl in the end. While the \\"mysteries\\" of the main plot are not terribly mysterious, the real surprise is that the Bond girl turns out to be engaged, and she maintains her virtue.  The final words are, \\"they turned away from each other and walked off into heir different lives.\\"  If the Bond movies rely on formulaic predictability, Flemming is worth reading because he keeps coming up with genuine surprises.  <br />Despite its age, despite its anachronistic technology, despite its tough-to-relate-to-these-days premises about Nazis and communists, MOONRAKER holds up as an exciting story that is actually fascinating (if for unintended reasons).   It is well worth reading.	2002-05-13
US	52446508	R3TV02L8AJNSAX	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Reading The Hobbit can become a habbit	I recently re-read THE HOBBIT for the first time in many, many years.  I liked it much more as an adult, and especially after reading THE LORD OF THE RINGS. THE LORD OF THE RINGS is a saga, while THE HOBBIT is a fairy tale.  As such, it is lighter, funnier, and faster-paced than the trilogy.  These qualities make it more entertaining and enjoyable.<br />Unlike THE LORD OF THE RINGS, which plods along and contains many chapters where essentially nothing happens, THE HOBBIT contains action in every chapter.  A new monster is introduced in each chapter, and something is always happening.  The book holds together remarkably well, and contains an arc that ties everything together.<br />The only drawback with THE HOBBIT is shared with all Tolkien that I've read.  I think of it as the \\"Eagles Fly Out of the Sky\\" problem.  Whenever Tolkien gets his heroes in a particularly tough fix, rather than having them use their wits to escape, he has eagles fly out of the sky and save them, or some other happenstance that is beyond the protagonists' control.  The eagles swoop to the rescue twice.  This is more than compensated by Bilbo's encounter with Gollum, but even that encounter ends by Bilbo inadvertently asking an unanswerable riddle.  While I enjoyed THE HOBBIT enough to think that someday I'll read it a third time, I struggle with the message here and with the rest of the Middle Earth saga - do wits matter?  Do things just happen?  Should wen go with the flow?  Or should wen just marvel at the fantasy?	2002-05-08
US	52446508	R3QE069X6RNEWH	1567310575	840259062	Live and Let Die (The James Bond Classic Library)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	About as much as one can ask for in a 1950�s pulp novel	\\"Live and Let Die\\" holds up as a story and moves quickly, but the really amazing thing about it is that it serves as a portal into a 1954 mindset.  This is most apparent in Flemming's treatment of blacks.  The villain is black, and he controls a black voodoo mob with communist ties and tentacles from Harlem to Jamaica.  At one point James Bond notices the villain's black female chauffeur and thinks to himself how unusual the site of a black woman driving a car was anywhere in the world.  While Flemming's fantasy-land world of universally linked superstitious black conspirators smacks of a genuinely racist outlook, the most surreal comments are about the reality of the world that existed when the book was written.  <br />It is tough to get beyond the book's racial stereotypes, but all of Flemming's gangs are pretty much the same international conspiracies.  Flemming probably thought that his treatment of black was somehow elevating.  In any case, beyond the racial element of the book, Flemming's way with words remain captivating, the plot remains slightly off (as is characteristic for the Bond books), and Bond remains Bond.  Flemming's Bond is not nearly so smart as the movie Bonds.  The literary Bond is, in a sense more superhuman in that his body endures inhuman abuses, from terrible beatings to poisonous levels of alcohol, tobacco and high-cholesterol foods.     But he is extremely reckless and has as much bad luck as good.  Luck, rather than wits, carry Bond through much of the book and in a sense he sort of flows along.  Not so for his partner, Felix Leiter, who meets the kind of surprising fate that makes the twists and turns of a Flemming novel actually unpredictable (Flemming reaches a climax in unpredictability with the close of his best work, \\"From Russia with Love\\").  <br />The other interesting thing about \\"Live and Let Die\\" is how elements of this book later appear in the films.  The movie version of the book is a considerable departure, yet scenes from\\"For Your Eyes Only,\\" and \\"License to Kill\\" are stolen almost word-for-word form this book.  That three movies are derivative of this one book indicate its action-value.<br />The whole combination of \\"Live and Let Die\\" is about as much as one can ask for in a 1950's pulp novel.  It is fun, it is dated in an unintentionally interesting way, and it is quick.  For these reasons and because it is Bond, \\"Live and Let Die\\" will live and not die for at least another 50 years.	2002-05-05
US	52446508	R1JB1ELGMHPYSY	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	5	22	30	N	N	Does its subject justice	SUPREME INJUSTICE is the book I was waiting for.  I write that because I read Vincent Bugliosi's awful THE BETRAYAL OF AMERICA  first.  Both Bugliosi and Dershowitz pretty much reach the same conclusion, that the Supreme Court in ruling as it did in Bush v. Gore, abused its power in the extreme.  Both don't shy from attacking the characters of the majority justices, and both argue that the implications of the decision are even more serious than the outcome of the election of 2000.  But the similarities end there.<br />Dershowitz characteristically has written a tight argument, building a step-by-step case towards a solid conclusion.  His argument based on legal reasoning and documented fact.  Some of the intricacies of his argument are meticulously detailed, but the essence of his case can be summed up in a bumper-sticker sized slogan.  That slogan is that the decision fails the \\"shoe is on the other foot\\" test.  This is pretty hard to escape. Dershowitz doesn't need to tear apart the logic of the decision bit by bit as he does, he doesn't need to outline the inconsistencies between the majority justices past decisions and their decision in Bush v. Gore as he does.  The heart of Dershowitz' argument, that the majority would not have decided the same way if Gore and Bush switched positions is difficult to argue with.  Anyone who does has a much tougher job than Dershowitz had while constructing this argument.<br />By comparison, the Bugliosi is an unorganized jumble of rants.  Where Dershowitz relies on legal arguments, Bugliosi relies on insults and adjectives.  Through and through, SUPREME INJUSTICE is a much better book.<br />It does have one flaw. Dershowitz himself doesn't want to fall prey to the dreaded \\"show on the other foot\\" test, so he compares Bush v. Gore to Roe v. Wade.  He claims that while he too is pro choice, that Roe is in the same vein as Bush v Gore and indeed set the stage for the Supreme Court to make overly political decisions.  There are several weaknesses to this comparison, some of which Dershowitz actually points out himself.  To begin with, Roe v. Wade was a bipartisan decision, Bush v. Gore was not. Dershowitz also acknowledges that the majority in Roe wrote a decision consistent with their earlier decisions, whereas the majority in Bush v. Gore did not. Dershowitz' point is that in Roe, the Court essentially jumped into a political debate that should have been resolved through the electoral and legislative processes.  <br />The problem with this line of argument is picking out Roe.  Roe was not the first such decision - indeed, Robert Bork made a similar argument about Brown v. Board of Education.  The \\"switch in time that saved nine\\" represented an entire shift of a court's jurisprudence in response to political pressure.  While that example is almost opposite of Dershowitz' point - the court then simply caught up with public opinion and thus bolstered the public's confidence in the court, it is an example on a grander scale than Roe that the Court is a very political institution.   <br />But while Dershowitz tries too hard to pass his own fairness test, his argument about Bush v. Gore stands up well enough on its own.  Coupled with Dershowitz' engaging writing style, SUPREME INJUSTICE does its subject justice indeed.	2002-04-27
US	52446508	R24UCP824K5XO0	0684868814	954638820	America's First Dynasty: The Adamses, 1735-1918	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Foundered!	After Richard Brookshiser's excellent - even inspirational - short biographies of George Washington and Alexander Hamilton, I eagerly purchased AMERICA'S FIRST DYNASTY with great expectations.  Sadly, the book doesn't live up to my hopes, and does not do its subjects justice.<br />The book contains four mini-biographies (even briefer than Brookshiser's norm) of the four \\"great\\" Adamses - John, John Quincy, Charles Francis, and Henry.  Their four lives spanned from 1735 through 1918 and tell the tale of America during that time.  Which is part of the problem with the book - the scope is way too big for a work slightly longer than 200 pages. <br />While Brookshiser seemed to capture the essence of Washington and Hamilton, his scant treatment of each Adams only scratches the surface of each life.  At the same time the book is more four strung-together stories, rather than an ongoing story (for instance, in chapters about one Adams, Brookshiser rarely writes about the others despite their overlapping lives).  At the end of the book, perhaps in an attempt to identify trends to tie these stories together, or perhaps only to push up the page length, Brookshiser writes concluding chapters on \\"themes.\\"  <br />The book fails for another reason, having to do with the concept of \\"greatness.\\"  If there is such a thing as a \\"great man,\\" John Adams is a legitimate candidate for the title. Brookshiser tries to make the case that the other three hold such a claim, too, but he (or rather they) fall short.  John Quincy, whose story Brookshiser tells best, was an accomplished politician, but he would almost certainly be forgotten if not for his famous name, his failed presidency, and Steven Spielberg's film, AMISTAD.  The case for Charles Francis' greatness is tougher still, and Brookshiser sort of admits as much (\\"John Adams said, foolishly, that he had never been a great man.  Charles Francis Adams might have said it, with more truth.\\" P. 211-212).  Brookshiser's case for Charles Francis is that his understated style as Lincoln's ambassador to England helped keep the British from siding with the Confederacy.  This is a bit of a stretch, but beyond that, the rest of Charles Francis' life is not especially spectacular.  <br />Henry Adams, the \\"last generation\\" (Brookshiser does not indicate if John Adams has any direct descendents still alive) never served as a public official as his famous forefathers had.  While Henry was well-known, Brookshiser struggles for an explanation for how he represents the continuation of a \\"dynasty.\\"  Henry was a writer, and while it is certainly true that the others also wrote, Brookshiser does not present the Adamses as a dynasty of writers.  Instead, they are a dynasty of \\"great men.\\"  Henry enters the pantheon for his book, MONT SAINT MICHEL AND CHARTES (interestingly, not the better known, EDUCATION OF HENRY ADAMS).  Henry's great book apparently has virtually nothing to do with politics or public affairs, so accepting that this is truly a \\"great book,\\" it is an achievement far removed from those of his family.<br />So, AMERICA'S FIRST DYNASTY is oddly incoherent.  The idea for the book was good, and Brookshiser probably couldn't get away with simply writing a biography of John Adams in the wake of David McCullough's book, but in the future he should stick to biographies of single individuals.  This book certainly isn't so bad as to turn me away from future books by Brookshiser, and specifically I'm hoping her turns his attention to Ben Franklin, who is prominent in all three of his period books.  But if this marks he third installment in a series on our nation's founders, it will not stand up as the best.	2002-03-25
US	52446508	R38WORYFLZ91DT	0878755330	473597549	Running With the Machine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Campaign contribution	RUNNING WITH THE MACHINE is the only book I have ever encountered about an unsuccessful campaign for a state legislative seat.  In that, it is a valuable addition to the campaign story genre.  For me, it was an extra bonus that I work in state politics in New York, where the story takes place.  The first virtue of the book, then, is that it is in a way a totally new contribution.  The second virtue is that it is an interesting story about the thing that I do.  Not everyone can share an appreciation of that latter point, but thousands of legislative staffers and candidates in this state alone certainly can.  I think those interested in politics more generally can as well, especially since people writing books usually ignore campaigns of this size and magnitude.  <br />The third and greatest of the book's virtues is that it really details what happens in a competitive legislative campaign (at least in New York State).  As a story, this book works better than a \\"how to,\\" yet it contains just about as much instructional detail.  <br />Nevertheless, RUNNING WITH THE MACHINE is flawed, in large part because it is a memoir.  Dan Lynch is a very bitter man, or at least he writes a very bitter story.  He seems to have been motivated to run by a sense of idealism that was totally eviscerated by the experience of running.  His level of contempt for voters, his opponent and his opponent's team, some of his less than enthusiastic allies, and the process itself becomes so shrill as to detract mightily from the otherwise fine account of an interesting campaign.  Lynch has been around politics for years, but he  just...can't...get...over how his opponent claimed that he \\"led the charge\\" for a bill that he had merely voted for.  Lynch labels hyperbole as lies and fails to recognize when he is guilty of exactly what he complains about. <br />Lynch, a former reporter and newspaper editor, is also astounded by the media's lack of interest in his campaign.  While once he may have criticized politicians for trying to make news via press release instead of action, now he is flabbergasted that his press releases are ignored.  Once he may have sneered at scripted candidates, now he is flummoxed when reporters want to pursue their own story line instead of the one established by his campaign team.  After years of writing, he chooses not to mention an example of a story or column he ever wrote comparing a local candidate's voting record to campaign material (almost certainly because he never wrote such a piece...or seen one), this time he is amazed that the local newspapers ignored that scoop about his opponent.  <br />All this and more detracts from what is otherwise an enjoyable, informative book.  Nevertheless, it does not detract so much as to slow the book down or make it any less interesting. RUNNING WITH THE MACHINE is certainly all that - and it is well worth reading.	2002-02-20
US	52446508	R3E39N3FU5765U	0743205928	833686522	Maestro	Books	4	2	4	N	N	On the Money!	Maestro is a nice, short book that is already out of date.  It is as much about the Clinton-era economic boom as it is about Alan Greenspan.  It ends by asking how long the boom can go.  <br />Bob Woodward has written three books, which prominently highlight aspects of the Clinton era  The Agenda, Shadow and Maestro.  Maestro is the only one in which Clinton and his team look good  really good.  The approach to the economy, especially their cutting of the deficit, balancing of the budget and internationalist approach, both contributed to the boom and gave the Fed room to further sustain the boom.  The Reagan and Bush administrations are portrayed as too political in their decision making, while the Clinton-Greenspan partnership is portrayed as the model. <br />Sadly, this model and the technical aspects of managing the government did not and dont get the attention that things like sex scandals do. Maestro helped me better appreciate Greenspan, but also better appreciate what we had with the Clinton administration.  By comparison, the present Bush administration with its excessive tax cuts and deficit spending seems very scary.<br />My one major criticism of Maestro goes back to it being already out of date.  Little space is devoted to explaining the structure of the Fed, what exactly it does, or even what Greenspan does on a day to day basis.  In a way, it is like a very long newspaper or magazine article more than it is a book.  But it is enjoyable and useful, at least for the moment.	2002-01-19
US	52446508	R2GMP9Y8FRESBJ	0817011862	246590769	In Goode Faith	Books	3	4	4	N	N	&quot;Goode,&quot; but not great	I saw Wilson Goode give a speech around ten years ago during which he discussed both the details of governing a city and what he viewed the future role of cities to be in some detail.  When asked by audience members about some of the more dramatic events during his mayoralty, he referred them to what was at the time his new book, IN GOODE FAITH.  I've been meaning to read the book ever since but didn't get around to it until recently.  I may be the only person in America with no connection to Philadelphia to read this book this year, but it was worth the wait and sure enough was a \\"goode\\" book.  <br />Which is not to say that it was a great book.  Unlike the speech I heard ten years ago, this book is light on the details of governance and the nuts and bolts of running a city.  An unexpectedly large amount of space is devoted to Goode's life before becoming Mayor.  This proves to be an interesting story, though it wasn't why I read the book.  Goode is at his most optimistic describing his rise to prominence.<br />But too often Goode descends into finger pointing and blame passing.  He does not hold back from criticizing anyone and just about everyone, including people who otherwise seem to be his allies.  For instance, Goode is pretty harsh when describing former Mayor Bill Green, who shared his philosophy of governance and named Goode to the highest appointed post in the City's government.  Goode later expresses his belief that his own campaign workers were \\"playing both sides\\" while helping him win elections.  Virtually every appointee of his mentioned in the book, or candidate he endorsed for other offices, are depicted as incompetent, insubordinate, corrupt or otherwise suspect.  Goode seems so ungrateful towards his own allies and subordinates than the overall impression is that the man had poor judgement at best. <br />Goode is also short on describing accomplishments as Mayor after about a year and a half in office.  The largest sub-story of the book is the bizarre MOVE drama, which culminated in the police actually bombing a house, setting an entire neighborhood on fire.  Goode seems genuinely upset about this event, but passes just about all the blame to lying, conniving subordinates.  Goode actually describes himself as a \\"victim\\" in the same sentence with others who died during the incident.  <br />Goode's post-MOVE mayoralty was marked, at least according to this book, by failure after failure.  Others in politics with motives Goode has no respect for wielded the \\"real\\" power in Philadelphia, while Goode seems by his own description to be standing on the sidelines.  He seems especially bitter that some of his reforms seem to have been implemented by some of his rivals after he left office.  Finally, Goode does little boosting of his City.  Philadelphia seems like more of a mountain for him to climb than a place he feels genuine affection for.  Never does he explain what he likes about Philadelphia.  <br />Despite Goode's negativism and lack of policy-orientation, the book moves along and is genuinely dramatic - even suspenseful - in parts.  It's not a story I knew much about before reading the book, but it a worthwhile story to read.  I'm still waiting to read more about Goode's vision of the future role of cities that he touched on in that speech ten years ago, but IN GOODE FAITH was an interesting diversion.	2002-01-19
US	52446508	RBYXRWYGHHUK5	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	3	9	18	N	N	I felt like I should have liked it more	I somehow made it long past adolescence without reading THE LORD OF THE RINGS books.  I read THE RETURN OF THE KING and the others (in order, of course) because I wanted to before the movies came out.  Somehow I didn't get into these books as much as I felt I should.  I found the battle scenes no less boring than the over-extended descriptions of journey.  The smaller-scale conflict, especially the part of the story revolving around Frodo and Sam were more interesting, but requiring a greater suspension of disbelief.  The climatic moment in the final book (more than 100 pages before the actual end of the book) was anti-climatic in the extreme, and while a friend of mine who is a devotee of these books found Sauron's lack of appearance to be \\"brilliant,\\" I was disappointed.  The evil faced by our heroes had a name, but no face, I guess (the move got around this by explaining that he is non-corporeal).<br />Still, the last 100 pages, essentially a post-script, brought the whole series together for me.  The allegory was strongest, or at least most obvious, here.  The hobbits are a race of Cincinatuses, only wanting to mind their own business.  They are totally innocent and un-ambitious.  That's why they were the only ones who could be trusted with the evil ring.  At the same time, they were all too quick to accept authoritarian rule without question or resistance.  Frodo lost his innocence to save the world, but a little loss of innocence was needed to save the hobbits from their own apathy.  The message of the last part of the book is that evil must be engaged; those who hope to ignore evil will be suppressed like everyone else, and ultimately give in to its ways.<br />As for the battles and daring escapes, they didn't do it for me.  Battle participants are often built up as Davids and Goliaths, with Goliath always losing because of David's will, luck, outside help, or reasons unexplained.  Seldom do our heroes' wits or cleverness get them out of trouble, more often they are saved by eagles dropping out of the sky.  Still I will miss these characters and enjoyed the movies.  I'm actually thinking of re-reading THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING.  Maybe someday I'll re-read this one, too.hey are saved by eagles dropping out of the sky.  Still I will miss these characters and enjoyed the movies.  I'm actually thinking of re-reading THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING.  Maybe someday I'll re-read this one, too.	2001-12-21
US	52446508	RJSAYEUZ1PF6M	0316260495	850544919	Tip O' Neill and the Democratic Century: A Biography	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great political biography	I finished reading this book a few weeks ago and wanted to let it rest in my mind before I was sure that it was as good as it seemed when I finished it.  Weeks later, I'm sure it is -- TIP O'NEILL is one of the best poltical biographies I have ever read.  Farrell does a great job of capturing O'Neill's personality, political style, and world view.  O'Neill had a full life, so despite the length, TIP O'NEILL rolls along swiftly.  Farrell also succeeds in capturing both the Washington and Cambridge cultures, which are radically different.  The Washington part is typical, the Cambridge part is not -- filled with long-forgotten back-home intrigue, door-to-door campaign stories, and great characters.<br />Massachusetts politics produces many interesting characters, and it just so happens that many of the more recent good biographies I've read are about them, including Adam Clymer's EDWARD M. KENNEDY and William Bulger's autobiography, WHILE THE MUSIC LASTS.  TIP O'NEILL is best of all.	2001-11-14
US	52446508	RLVYVJ7M8VGJN	0684845598	273724840	Hardball: How Politics Is Played, Told by One Who Knows the Game	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Good enough to teach from	As a TV personality, Chris Matthews is annoying and borish.  HARDBALL has nothing to do with that.  It is a contemporary classic in tradition of Joe McGuiness' THE SELLING OF THE PRESIDENT 1968.  I have found HARDBALL to be so insightful that I've assigned it to a class I'm teaching on practical politics.  While re-reading the book for the class, I was delighted to discover that the current edition has been updated to include newer stories and examples.  This makes HARDBALL worth buying and reading again for those who read it before when it first came out.	2001-11-14
US	52446508	R14DH2MNWWBS6V	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Two Problems with the Two Towers	THE TWO TOWERS was more enjoyable than I remember THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING being.  There's more action and intrigue, and the thickening of the plot was enough to want me to read THE RETURN OF THE KING as soon as I was finished.  There's much good to say about this book, but its two flaws are more interesting.<br />The first flaw is endemic to Tolkien.  Its what I think of as the \\"eagles drop out of the sky\\" problem.  Too often, Tolkien paints his characters into seemingly inescapable situations, only to be rescued by some new, external force.  I was most annoyed by this by rescuing eagles in THE HOBBIT, but the problem re-occurs, albeit to a lesser extent, in THE TWO TOWERS.  The problem here is that the characters rely on un-foreshadowed luck rather than their wits, or some element introduced earlier in the book (or series).  This problem is especially acute near the end of the book, where a hobbit humbles a giant spider that apparently has been so formidable for years than even armies of orcs had been at its mercy.<br />But the ending has other problems as well, not the least of which being the missed chance for Tolkien to fool the reader into thinking that Frodo, one of the main characters, is dead (until the next book).  We think that for a few pages, but the book ends, serial-like, with Frodo's friend Sam realizing that he's alive.  Not only do we miss the suspense generated by Gandalf's apparent death at the end of THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, but the ending seems too unresolved, even for a middle book.	2001-10-30
US	52446508	R18TOSCTH6VUMO	039570068X	776021437	King Of The Cats: The Life & Times of Adam Clayton Powell, Jr.	Books	3	9	17	N	N	King of the cads	Adam Clayton Powell is the type of politician that would have difficulty existing today.  He was a liberal with radical tendencies.  He spent little time in his district and much time philandering.  He was involved in the passage of many pieces of legislation creating what conservatives today call \\"big government.\\"  An irony of Powell's career is that a true progressive could rack up accomplishments at a time when unreconstructed racists and Hoover-style conservatives also thrived, while today both sides are rare breeds (at least overtly).  <br />The striking things about Powell are the sweep of some of the policies he was involved in shaping - minimum wage, civil rights legislation, funding for education, and his massive egoism.   Haygood portrays Powell as a womanizer, an abuser of special privileges, and an all-around pleasure-monger.  It isn't hard to link his appetites to his professional compassion.   Powell loved to be loved, and he also recognized the source of his power - the untapped resource of poor and oppressed.  Lyndon Johnson, the Kennedys and more recently, Bill Clinton all recognized this.  These are men cut from similar cloth. <br />Haygood's account suggests that the world is a better place because of Powell and men like him.  Still, I didn't like the man.  As admirable as his public works were, his interpersonal relationships were such that I'm glad I wasn't around to get close to him.  The book starts slowly, which doesn't help the cause, either.  It plods along for a while before taking off, at which time the looming presence of Powell's downfall begins to color the height of his career as tragic.  <br />I read this book after finishing a biography of another colorful member of Congress, TIP O'NEILL AND THE DEMOCRATIC CENTURY.  Powell's life was more colorful, but the O'Neill book was more enjoyable.  Nevertheless, KING OF THE CATS is a worthy effort.	2001-10-08
US	52446508	R113R46KIL4876	0375725547	435436234	American Rhapsody	Books	4	2	2	N	N	�Almost Brilliant�	Joe Eszterhas tries to do at least three things with AMERICAN RHAPSODY.  The first, which he does best, is make the point as salaciously as possible that the behavior of Bill Clinton, especially (but not exclusively) with Monica Lewinski resulted in the election of George W. Bush.  While this book is not about policy, the premise Eszterhas starts with is, \\"if Clinton was a great policy president, his behavior produced a successor who is in the process of more than reversing Clinton's achievements.\\" Eszterhas never spells it out this way - that would be far too blunt.  Instead, he subtly makes his point amidst prurience that is anything but subtle.  In this respect, the book is nearly brilliant.  Was Monica scandal about sex, lies and debauchery?  Here's a version that's even more sleazy than the STAR REPORT.  It still wasn't about those things.  Were the Republicans scum?  Here the Republicans were even scummier than the Democrats, who are portrayed by Eszterhas as pretty scummy.  This is still beside the point.  The point, I think Eszterhas was trying to make, was that the whole thing reversed all of what Clinton worked for. (Don't believe anyone who claims that this book is pro-Clinton. Eszterhas offers passing acceptance of Clinton's policy record and intentions as unimpeachable is meant as a, \\"So what if it is?\\"  He's trying to make the point that even if you support Clinton's policies, the sex scandals were unforgivable - all the more so).  <br />If Eszterhas hits a high mark with his larger point, AMERICAN RHAPSODY's own excess keep it from greatness.  Its excesses cannot be found in the book's dirty language, rumor-mongering and other trashy aspects. Eszterhas uses those things with more artistic merit here than he does in his movies.  But Eszterhas needs an editor.  He manages to stuff every idea that seemed good at the time into this overly-long book.  The last 50 pages or so are particularly unnecessary, but really fat can be found throughout the book.<br/> Eszterhas other fault is his third goal, to tell the truth with fictional interludes which contrast the journalistically acceptable \\"true\\" narrative, which may or may not be believable.  This is a shot at the media - Eszterhas, a fictional storyteller, is trying to show that he can get to the heart of the matter better than new-media journalists.  Like the first point, there's a subtly to how Eszterhas attempts this point, but his frequent lapses into self-proclaimed fiction get old quickly.  Fiction and non-fiction don't mix.  Its not a device used often - and now I know why.<br />But the best of AMERICAN RHAPSODY is worthwhile.  The incident it covers is absurd, deserving of the absurdist rendition Eszterhas offers.  I can imagine AMERICAN RHAPSODY enduring as an account of the Monica matter.	2001-08-13
US	52446508	R1TOIKR15PTRFP	0671751506	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	1	18	53	N	N	Rush really was a big fat idiot!	Rush Limbaugh was funny once...in the distant past...long before he wrote this book...before he took himself seriously as a political leader of sorts.  I am nonpartisan when it comes to humor.  The old, old Rush spat out right wing nonsense, but he was funny.  Gone is the humor in THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, except for traces of a snide, the world-is-out-to-get-me disparaging excuse for humor.   This all seemed to work for a while, until it got old (fast).  And the likes of Al Franken and James Carville  popped Limbaugh like the balloon he appeared to be.  Interestingly, Franken's RUSH LIMBAUGH IS A BIG FAT IDIOT and other (even obscure) Limbaugh lambastings are still in print yet THE WAY... seems to be out of print.  As goes his waste line, so goes his following.  Yet THE WAY... is not entirely unworthy of reading.  It makes all the Limbaugh jokes funnier, and despite the author's lack of intentional humor, his corresponding lack of logic or factual accuracy is also funny in a way. In a way Limbaugh's fading makes a review of this old, forgotten book almost irrelevant ... but I'd actually like to see a Rush revival.  He provided such good material for the comics.	2001-07-10
US	52446508	R3HKO806TV3893	0375416404	600659267	Off Camera: Private Thoughts Made Public	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ted Gets Ornery	The strangest myth of journalism is that in order to strive for objectivity, journalists purge themselves (or should purge themselves) of all opinions.  Anyone whose ever read an article or seen a news broadcast knows that journalists have opinions, and they express them in all sorts of ways.  The way Ted Koppel does in OFF CAMERA is not one of the more typical ways.  Here he comments in a journal on the events of 1999, holding little back and stripping his opinions from some of the constraints and codes of his profession.<br />All that isn't striking.  What is is the degree to which Koppel is cynical about almost everything.  Just about anything of public importance that catches his attention enough to make it into this journal is worthy of disparagement.  Take his thoughts on the Kosovo War.  At first he disparages the US's motives for getting involved, while later he seems to lament the extent to which problems there came to be ignored.  He concludes before thew air war was fought that the NATO could not win that way and that a ground war was inevitable, then forgets to mention that it worked.  And so on.<br />But this is interesting.  It is interesting to hear someone (Koppel's voice adds to the experience of listening to the audio book version) whose job it is to cover the news, speak with such disdain and even despair about the news.  While bleak, Koppel's opinions are also interesting.  He has a journalist's flair for putting a story together.  I would happily read more of his commentary should he chose to write more.<br />OFF CAMERA is not inspirational - it isn't meant to be.  But it is worth hearing (or reading).	2001-07-10
US	52446508	R1QTGG92ZPW334	0743506448	995097341	Do I Stand Alone?: Going to the Mat Against Political Pawns and Media Jackals	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The Loner with Two Faces	I read Jessie Ventura's autobiography, I AINT GOT TIME TO BLEED, as I was preparing to teach a class on state government.  I found absolutely nothing worth sharing with my students.  Despite Ventura's potentially interesting personal story, I found the book to be a fluff and puff.  So I was reluctant when I picked up the audio book version of Ventura's next book, DO I STAND ALONE. <br />This book has considerable upsides.  To begin with, it is more focused than the autobiography.  That one briefly touched on different periods in Ventura's life, this one focuses on politics.   Better still, Ventura doesn't gloss over state politics, or the fact that he is the governor of a particular state (Minnesota).  The particulars are interesting, and his increased fluency in the ways of state government gives Ventura more credibility as a commentator.  <br />Ventura writes in two modes - he writes to YOU about YOU, and he writes to \\"the people\\" about \\"them.\\"  He is stronger and this book is more useful when Ventura sticks to the former mode.  <br />Ventura's philosophy of government is libertarian.  He believes that many public problems can't be solved by government, but can only be truly addressed by the public.  His conception of what \\"the public\\" is seems clear when he's in his \\"YOU\\" mode.  \\"YOU\\" have to do this or that in order for US to overcome this problem.  For instance, Ventura writes forthrightly about parenthood - laying the responsibility on the listener for choices he or she may make in this regard.  \\"If you want something cuddly to keep you company, buy a hamster, don't have a child.\\"  This was Ventura's funniest line, and it embodies his \\"take responsibility\\" message.  <br />This is rare for a politician - most seek to promise solutions to problems.  Ventura outlines whole areas of public debate as being within the public's ability to solve, and not within government's.  He's using his bully pulpit to challenge his listeners.  He even raises a few tough issues, such as the important but often boring topic of unicameral legislatures.  This is responsible.<br />But Jesse has two faces.  He frequently stops challenging and starts blaming.  In this mode, he writes about a faceless, seemingly monolithic \\"people\\" as in \\"We the people.\\"  As fare as I can tell, anyone who disagrees with Ventura is not part of \\"the people,\\" but rather some sort of special interest.  On the one hand, Ventura rails against the apathetic, but then he also rails against every manner of active citizens - the politically active, the partisan, the members of groups organized around shared interests.  In this mode, Ventura spouts off unoriginal \\"new\\" ideas, often mistaking common sense with blind simplicity, and passes off old saws about politicians versus people.  The nearly monolithic media is against the people, too.  (Ventura's exceptions to the monolith include such paragons of journalistic virtue as Chris Matthews and Geraldo Rivera - I'm not joking).  <br />Also weakening the book is Ventura's writing style.  He often writes in generalities, which seem all the less interesting compared to his occasional specific examples.  He names names early on when discussing certain state legislators and how they embody what he sees as the faults of the system - this is interesting.  Yet he doesn't criticize one reporter by name in his entire chapter on the media (which he almost writes of as if the word were singular).  Finally, Ventura's woe-is-me routine (hinted at by the book's title) gets very boring, very quickly.  <br />DO I STAND ALONE works well as a book on tape.  I suspect that the audio version is edited, but it flowed smoothly, and frankly I wouldn't have been interested in reading much more.  Venutra's interesting voice also ads to the experience.	2001-07-09
US	52446508	RJ0CFMD1IR5E3	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Oh, brother!	I enjoyed reading FOUNDING BROTHERS, but in the days since I finished it, I'm somewhat at a loss as to what to write about it.  Author Joseph Ellis starts out with a premise, that the founding generation made a difference and were not simply swept up with the times, then goes on to illustrate the point by telling various stories featuring a well-known cast of characters.  Ostensibly, these characters include John Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Washington, Franklin, Hamilton, and Burr.  But apart from the first story, about the Hamilton-Burr duel, this is really a book featuring Adams-Jefferson anecdotes - the others are basically supporting characters.  As a result, Ellis' point is somewhat cheapened.  Considering that he has already written books about both Jefferson and Adams, I wonder if FOUNDING BROTHERS should really be considered a post-script to those two.<br />None of this is to say that FOUNDING BROTHERS is not enjoyable reading material.  As a fan of the era, this slight book was a pleasant hodge-podge.  What it lacks is depth.  Depth is not impossible in a short book -- Richard Brookhiser's  ALEXANDER HAMILTON, AMERICAN  and FOUNDING FATHER achieve more depth than Ellis does here.  What we have left, then is a collection of pleasant short stories about familiar figures.  Not bad, but hardly revolutionary.	2001-06-21
US	52446508	RR8R5FCMUH99D	0671034405	39039674	Glam!: (David) Bowie, (Marc) Bolan and the Glitter Rock Revolution	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wham bam	GLAM is not so much a book as it is an outline for a book.  Still, it is a useful outline, providing a Cliff-Notes history of the Glam music in the early 1970's.  GLAM does a good job of listing key Glam albums, chronicling significant events in the period, and describing the basic act of every major and most of the minor Glam acts.  What's missing are deeper stories about the personalities of Glam, a serious treatment of the music (surely some of the music deserves serious treatment), or anything other than a superficial sociological explanation of what was going on.  Yet this is not meant as a complaint.  GLAM serves its purpose, is enjoyable to read, and functions as a really good outline.  Now if only someone writes the real book.  In the meantime, wham bam, thank you GLAM.	2001-06-08
US	52446508	R2JN2BTM9T54Q0	0671034405	39039674	Glam!: (David) Bowie, (Marc) Bolan and the Glitter Rock Revolution	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wham bam	GLAM is not so much a book as it is an outline for a book.  Still, it is a useful outline, providing a Cliff-Notes history of the Glam music in the early 1970's.  GLAM does a good job of listing key Glam albums, chronicling significant events in the period, and describing the basic act of every major and most of the minor Glam acts.  What's missing are deeper stories about the personalities of Glam, a serious treatment of the music (surely some of the music deserves serious treatment), or anything other than a superficial sociological explanation of what was going on.  Yet this is not meant as a complaint.  GLAM serves its purpose, is enjoyable to read, and functions as a really good outline.  Now if only someone writes the real book.  In the meantime, wham bam, thank you GLAM.	2001-06-08
US	52446508	R1N410FR4BXOVO	0671038745	974798154	Mackerel By Moonlight	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Fishy	I found this book in the bargain bin at a super market.  I figured that I'd be hard pressed to not get my money's worth on a 50-cent investment.  Yet, sure enough, I put down &quot;MACKEREL BY MOONLIGHT&quot; after about 40 pages.  I like politics and I like mysteries, so this book, by the interesting former governor of Massachusetts, seemed like a safe bet.  Instead, Weld packs within those 40 pages every politically useful (for Weld) character trait he can apply to his lead character, including wholesome affiliations with people of just about every identifiable demographic group in, well, in Massachusetts.  Maybe there's a story here beneath the propaganda, but I didn't wait around to find out.  You shouldn't either.<br />I gave this 2 stars instead of 1 because in fairness I didn't finish the book and I guess it could possibly get better.	2001-06-07
US	52446508	RUVI1VCN5ZZ9R	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	1	24	54	N	N	A helter-skelter argument	Vincent Bulgliosi is really, really mad about the Supreme Court's \\"Bush v. Gore\\" decision, which handed the presidency to George Bush and weak legal grounds.  I share Bulgliosi's rage, for many of the reasons he writes about plus many, many more.  But THE BETRAYAL OF AMERICA does a poor job of justifying the anger.  It surely would not change anyone's mind that did not already have an opinion.  Its flaws are such that to the extent that the book is remembered at all, it will probably add to the legitimacy of the Bush presidency by arguing so poorly against it.<br /> THE BETRAYAL OF AMERICA is a book in format only.  At its heart is an article that previously appeared in THE NATION magazine.  Apparently, the article inspired a big response, and the publishers felt compelled to turn it into a book.  To do that, Bulgliosi cobbled together some jumbled thoughts related to the \\"Bush v. Gore\\" decision (or, in some cases, not related to the decision).  The book's poor structure is its first major problem.  After the two brief forwards, there's an introduction and a series of notes leading up to the reprinted article.  Following the reprinted article are more notes, then a summary of the \\"Bush v. Gore\\" legal proceedings.  The sum is a hodge-podge of often repetitive, random rants, strung together with little attention to linear narration.  <br />The summary is the part of the book most grounded in actual legal reasoning.  But Bulgliosi's prose is not very compelling, so it is also the most boring part of the book.  Most of the rest of the book is spiced up to excessive hyperbole instead of legal reasoning.  This is a cheap way to accomplish two functions: make the writing more interesting, and enhance the argument.  <br />Aside from the summary, Bulgliosi's main weapons include insults, name-calling and the excessive use of adjectives.  Not content to simply call the reasoning of five justices who voted in the majority in \\"Bush v. Gore\\" \\"intellectually flabby and fatuous,\\"(p. 51) he repeatedly labels them as criminals (although he also takes pains to explain how they are not really criminals).  Instead of explaining where Ken Starr fits in to this story, he reminisces about a prior book he wrote on the Clinton Impeachment and summarizes his conclusions about Starr by repeatedly (yes, more than once) labeling him \\"monstrous, grotesque\\" (p. 79).  Instead of simply explaining how the media's coverage of the matter was flawed, he throws in that as a group, the \\"incredible media\\" is \\"a group that can always be counted on to do a minimum of thinking\\" (p.103). Instead of explaining Katherine Harris' misdeeds, he denigrates her as a \\"lightweight\\" as indicated by her makeup and jewelry (p. 137). Bulgliosi's argument does indeed rise above this level, but that he consistently also sinks to it detracts from his arguments' strengths.   <br />Bulgliosi also commits the high-school essay level sin of, failing to clearly making a point, tells us that his point is \\"clear\\" or \\"obvious\\" or how much we should be impressed.  When he wants to drive a point home, he tends to set the reader up with something like, \\"Are you ready for this one?  By that I mean are you sitting down, since if you're standing, this is the type of thing that could affect your physical equilibrium.\\"  He then makes the point, but just in case the enormity of the matter at hand is not self evident, follows it with, \\"Is there any limit to the effrontery and shamelessness of these five right-wing Justices?\\" (all this plays out on page 59).  This is a very annoying style of writing.  It is made more annoying by frequent grammatical mistakes, such as frequently confusing \\"its\\" with \\"their.\\" <br />Finally, in this very short book, Bulgliosi keeps getting off the point.  He writes extended side-commentaries about barely relevant things on his mind, such as a possible lie William Rehnquist told during his confirmation hearings in 1971 and 1986, the Clinton impeachment, and even the assassination of John F. Kennedy.  The effect is that it seems like Bulgliosi didn't have enough to write about the topic at hand.<br />The article at the core of this book would have made for an amusing speech, or a weak essay.  But as the basis for book, it is terrible.  The actions of the Supreme Court were indeed terrible, the consequences horrific, and the public outrage far too muted.  But those of us looking for a \\"modern day equivalent of J'accuse\\" (as Molly Ivins labels Bulgliosi's article) will have to look elsewhere.	2001-05-27
US	52446508	R2Y4NQK7HXJICR	0684826631	526094708	Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Fly on the Wall	David Gergen was not exactly a fly on the wall.  He was more involved with the four presidents he served than that.  But he had a front row seat in four White Houses, giving him a unique perspective that he almost is obliged to share for history's sake.  Unfortunately, history must wait longer for his memoirs.  Fortunately, EYEWITNESS TO POWER is an enjoyable and useful book on presidential management with practical implications for readers involved with less grand management schemes.   <br />EYEWITNESS TO POWER is ostensibly about presidential leadership, but there is a distinction between leadership and management, and this is really more a book about management with some anecdotes added from Gergen's well of stories.  This is not meant in any way to disparage the book - Gergen's observations about how four presidents ran their shop is valuable and engrossing.  I found that some of his observations could be generalized and used as lessons in other management settings.  Gergen does not, however, delve too deeply in how the presidents helped bring the country along where it wouldn't necessarily have gone without their leadership, drew attention to tough issues, or inspired the people to address adaptive challenges.  Sure, Gergen touches on Nixon's trip to China, and he explores Ford's pardoning of Nixon, but he really dissects the Nixon/Haldeman strong chief of staff style of management, and the evolution of Ford's \\"spokes of the wheel\\" style into something more workable.  <br />Gergen seems more emotional when writing about Reagan and Clinton.  His admiration for Reagan is so strong as to leave his assessment of the Reagan White House highly unbalanced.  Meanwhile, his deep disappointment in Clinton renders his attempt at balance an exercise of damnation via faint praise (coupled with unambiguous damnation, too).  Gergen's account of the Ford administration, in contrast, is most fair.  Since he seemed to be in the dark about much of what was going on in the Nixon White House, his treatment of Ford is really the best in the book.<br />EYEWITNESS TO POWER is a short book and I was left wanting more.  More stories, more observations, and more about the actual leadership of these presidents (or, perhaps an acknowledgment that they didn't practice leadership much at all).  But this sense of wanting more is not hollow- I liked what I got with this book and simply hope that there's a sequel.	2001-05-21
US	52446508	R27GHZGC2CB7KT	0802713319	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	2	6	18	N	N	A Nobel Failure	Simon Singh sets out to convey the drama, excitement and genuine suspense surrounding the solving of one of the greatest problems in math - the proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. Singh's challenge is in both conveying the historical significance of the problem, and in boiling down complex math for those, like me, who are not particularly knowledgeable in math.   Sadly, Singh fails in both counts.  FERMAT'S ENIGMA moves slowly through the history of number theory, while leaving the meaning math's meaning impregnable.  Although this book is short, after a while I was wondering what the use was in going on.  I suspect that those who know more about math than I could enjoy this book.  Sadly, I could not - it was just over my head.	2001-05-19
US	52446508	RE0S4BWSJE26	0375404945	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Less than great	The audio book version of LINDBERGH focuses on the three reasons we remember Charles Lindbergh: (1) his historic flight; (2) his baby's kidnapping and murder; and (3) his ultra-isolationist views leading up to World War II.  The resulting portrait is balanced and very human, but something is lost.  Having not been around when Lindbergh became the first person to cross the Atlantic in an airplane, I never quite understood the full source of his celebrity.  The human Lindbergh of this book seems less than great, so the exact reason for his great fame remains a mystery for me.  <br />LINDBERGH does a better job with the kidnapping.  The story is quite bizarre and not a little creepy.  Author Berg manages to convey the drama and suspense, but also debunks some of the conspiracy theories that survive to this day.  <br />Lindbergh's activities leading up to World War II mark his last really noteworthy set of activities, and they border on the tragic. Lindbergh comes off as stupid and insensitive (actually accepting a Nazi award from Herman Goering).  It is easy to understand why he may have been perceived as a Nazi sympathizer, but Berg doesn't portray him that way.  Instead, Lindbergh comes off as a naïve farm-boy, way out of his league in the America First movement.  Really, he had no reason to emerge as an authoritative voice on world affairs.   What did he do?  He stayed awake in a plane in his 20s.  Accepting that that was a great act of endurance and navigation, it has nothing to do with foreign policy. <br />In many ways, Charles Lindbergh was ahead of his time.  His flight foretold the space age.  The media hype around the kidnapping was shades of OJ, Monica and the media-saturated 1990's.  The attention paid to him as he ignorantly leapt into the public debate is worth contemplating as Arnold Schwartzenegger considers running for Governor of California, and candidates for public office with no experience often seem more appealing than those with. Lindbergh was just a man, his image was the product of hype.  He may have been the first person of the 20th Century to be famous mostly for being famous.  He was far from the last.<br />There's something empty about the Charles Lindbergh of this audiobook.  That may be useful in understating a man of a past age in the present, but the emptiness carries over into the book itself. LINDBERGH was enjoyable to listen to, but as with Charles Lindbergh, I was left wanting something greater.	2001-05-07
US	52446508	RECZI5OWEO2O0	0743500563	479586765	Cronkite Remembers	Books	2	15	16	N	N	That's not the way it was -- there was more to it!	Don't confuse CRONKITE REMEMBERS with A REPORTER'S LIFE.  The latter is a genuine memoir from TV's second greatest journalist (next to Edward R. Murrow).  The former is a brief tape that breezes through events so quickly as to be wholly unsatisfying.   Walter Cronkite has lived a long enough life and had a rich enough career to merit two autobiographies, but CRONKITE REMEMBERS is so superficially brief as to trivialize his career and the events he covered rather than add to our understanding of them.  This isn't a terrible tape.  It isn't unpleasant to listen to.  I liked hearing Cronkite's voice, which I could only imagine while reading A REPORTER'S LIFE.  But I was left wanting more - much, much more.  That's why CRONKITE REMEMBERS merits a low rating.  Skip this and get A REPORTER'S LIFE.	2001-05-06
US	52446508	R1MBWNLFVMYXWP	0375416331	432334443	Natural Blonde: A Memoir	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Unnaturally bland	I listened to this audio book because I had a long ride and I heard an interesting interview  with Liz Smith about this book.  After hearing the audio book, I guess the interview was interesting because of the interviewer's skills, not Smith's.  <br />I don't recall ever reading a Liz Smith column, but, as she has been writing gossip for 30 years, I naturally assumed that this memoir would summarize 30 years of gossip.  Greatest hits, stories behind stories, embarrassments, stories that were bigger than mere gossip, follow-ups to scandals past, etc.  Sadly, this was not to be.  <br />NATURAL BLONDE is a straight-up autobiography.  This book is about Liz Smith and her life, not the lives of her columns many subjects.  The book is told chronologically, giving equal weight to each stage of Smith's life.  Consequently, the first two tapes - half the audio book - is about her largely uninteresting early life.  Sorry, but who cares?<br />At the end, as she sums up her life, she asks herself a series of \\"was this a life well spent\\" questions.  They're mostly along the line of \\"I wanted to make money\\" and \\"I wanted to meet famous people.\\"  Missing is any sentiment of leaving the world a better place.  Granted, Smith raises money for literacy, but at one point she admits that taking care of two dogs is too much responsibility for her (in terms of caring for others).  If the impression is that a gossip columnist must lead a shallow life, this book confirms it.<br />Finally, in the second half of her book, Smith gets into some expanded stories about famous people.  This unfortunately short list includes Truman Capote, Donald and Ivana Trump, Malcolm Forbes, Katherine Hepburn and a few others.  Unfortunately, the stories she tells about these personalities (and it is their personalities, not their accomplishments, that she covers) are anticlimactic.  I was left was left wanting more substance - or at least more of a reason to be interested.<br />Smith is more interesting discussing the newspaper industry.  Her story about Kitty Kelly seems to go somewhere.  Her commentary about New York City's tabloid wars was insightful if all too brief.  More of this would have strengthened the book.<br />The audiocassette version probably has two advantages over the print edition.  The first is Smith's narration.  Her voice adds something to the words.  The second is that I can't imagine slogging through the print version of the first half of the book.  In this case, the edits help the story.  In sum, NATURAL BLONDE is NOT the real thing	2001-05-03
US	52446508	R1H50PZYG5962H	0375402004	285087058	Killing the Dream: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not quite killer, not quite dreamy	Gerald Posner has created a rather odd genre - debunking conspiracy theories by telling assassins' stories.  His first, better book, CASE CLOSED, was a welcomed counter to the volumes of loony JFK conspiracy books.      KILLING THE DREAM takes on the more contemporary theories about Martin Luther King's killing.  As strange and implausible theories begin to shape the way history is recorded about this incident, a book like this is also needed.   But it could be done better.<br />CASE CLOSED was at its best when it methodically debunked various JFK theories, and some common elements shared by various JFK theories.  There aren't as many theories about the killing of King, so Posner can't use the same technique.  Moreover, in the King case, most of the conspiracy theories originate from  the assassin himself, James Earl Ray.  More than he did with Oswald, Posner here is really debunking Ray more than he is commonly believed plot scenarios.  <br />The weak halves of both of Posners books are the first halves, where the author basically sketches the life stories of two losers, Oswald and Ray.  Their lives really are not terribly interesting.  Posner's purpose in doing this has to do with his making the case that these lone gunmen were not patsies in the plots of larger forces.  Point well taken, but there's a greater need to do this with Oswald, whose life has been the subject of so many bizarre rumors.<br />Ray is much less of a mystery because he lived.  Consequently, he sowed the seeds of paranoia for most of the rest of his life in jail.  The seeds took root relatively recently as he and his lawyers drew new attention to his revised conspiracy theories in the wake of Oliver Stone's JFK.  Sadly, the King family seemed to buy into what Ray was saying, thus giving him a sheen of credibility.  When Posner gets around to the debunking part of his book, he wisely focuses on the theories that took hold in the 1990's as a result of the renewed interest.  This probably shouldhave been the singular focus of Posner's book.    <br />I listened to this book in an abridged form in its audiocassette version, so perhaps something important is missing.  It was certainly enjoyable and made my long drive more interesting.  But KILLING THE DREAM doesn't live up to its potential.	2001-05-01
US	52446508	R24S12ED16F17P	0671579002	848196796	Reporting Live	Books	3	4	7	N	N	All the news that's fit...and more!	85% of this book-on-tape is the type of news centered memoire that you were probably hoping it would be.  Stahl has a unique perspective on some of the major political developments of the last 30 years.  This is her place to reflect on them.  Among her stories are some particularly interesting behind-the-scenes accounts of the news industry itself, such as her fued with Daniel Shore.<br />The other 15% is what seemed to be a slapped-together account of her personal life.  These (thankfully) brief interruptions seem somewhat forced and distracted.  Perhaps this is a result of a poor editing job as the book was converted from print to tape, but I have a feeling that Stahl set out to write about press and politics and her publisher demanded that she flesh out her account with some &quot;human&quot; stories.  <br />While the end result is interesting and satsifying, it also leaves the impression that Stahl is somewhat shallow.  She seems to put her job before her personal life and her career before her job.  She seems all-too ready to slink towards info-tainment when the industry is moving in that direction.  The overall effect is not flattering on the state of contemporary TV news. I don't think that's her point, but that's how I felt when I finished listening.  <br />Despite its flaws, I enjoyed &quot;Reporting Live.&quot; It was certainly a worthwhile choice for my last long car trip.	2001-04-30
US	52446508	R36NVRA9Z1PGV1	0684873028	704115192	Hillary's Turn: Inside Her Improbable, Victorious Senate Campaign	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Turn for the Better	I'm very much involved in New York State politics - yet I learned much from this insightful and thoroughly enjoyable book. HILLARY'S TURN is written almost like a series of news articles.  Even the layout of the cover suggests that the book is merely a hardbound tabloid.  Indeed, news coverage of the campaign is one of the book's main themes.  The effect is to move the action of the book along in a dramatic and concise manner. Tomasky doesn't stop much to reflect, which seems somehow ironic considering his portrayal of most of the players as unreflective.  But that's fine because as campaign accounts go, this one is all action.<br />Tomasky's three major characters are Hillary Clinton, Rudy Giulliani and Rick Lazio.  He somehow manages to paint them all in a fairly good light, while dramatizing their oddest characteristics.  He seems particularly fascinated by Giulliani, who he claims did the \\"most bizarre thing a politician has ever done, ever.\\" Tomasky seems to believe that Hillary herself is sort of boring, but the events that were happening around her were anything but.<br />For all the fun of this book, it has a few flaws.  Most outstanding of these is the great disparity in Tomasky's reporting when it comes to upstate rather than New York City politics. Tomasky's sources and knowledge of NYC politics are first rate, but his knowledge of upstate seems to be limited to what he saw on the bus.  Much is left out, not the least of which is a full appreciation for Hillary's use of the upstate economy as an issue, and Lazio's perplexing refusal to do the same.  <br />But that's a subject for someone else and not reason enough to skip this book. HILLARY'S TURN is a real page-turner!	2001-04-27
US	52446508	R3S0YCBQ4T07TA	0553502409	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization : The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role from the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe	Books	5	239	281	N	N	Anything less would be uncivilized	The title of this book is misleading, though not inaccurate.  For some reason I assumed the title to be tongue-in-cheek.  Some vague kind of Irish humor.  I also assumed that the Irish in question were the contemporary Irish, perhaps even Irish Americans.  I was pleasantly surprised to be completely wrong.  I usually listen to tapes of books that I am mildly interested in and don't want to spend the time and effort to read.  This one far exceeded my initial casual interest.  It was a joy to listen to and worth sitting down with in print form.  The book is a piece of serious history.  It focuses on the transition in Europe between the fall of Rome and the early Middle Ages.  The story is literally how Irish clerics saved the books and teachings of classical Western civilization, then re-introduced them to Europe after the fall.  This is not only a period in history that I am not especially familiar with - I genuinely don't think there's much writing on it (at least not popular historical writing, like this book).  The author makes a point that this particular story - of how, well, the Irish saved civilization, is especially downplayed or ignored in part due to who writes most of the history books (such as the English).  So I learned quite a bit. Cahill is a great storyteller.  I imagine that this will be enjoyable even for people without a particular attraction to history, and certainly to people with no particular interest in Irish history.  Again, this is a book worth getting and reading in print form, however the audio version has one advantage - the narration by Donal Donnelly.   His rich voice and well-timed delivery was a joy to listen to and kept me driving the long way home so I could hear more of the tape.	2001-04-14
US	52446508	R15D24E1L8Z7RZ	0684809184	534371781	The Gold of Exodus	Books	1	5	13	N	N	Unbelievable even if (properly) labeled as fiction	I do a lot of driving and consequently listen to a lot of books on tape.  I never like to listen to tapes of books that I'd actually like to read, thus \\"The Gold of Exodus.\\"  Actually, I'm somewhat embarrassed to admit to have actually listened to it.  Don't make the same mistake, and certainly don't bother reading the print version.  The ever-present annoyance of this book is that it is passed off as non-fiction.  If it were properly labeled a novel, it would rate as a c-grade adventure story.  Not entirely unentertaining, but cheap and strained in the credibility department.  But as a supposed \\"true story,\\" almost every word of this book is an insult to the reader's (listener's) credulity.  It is utter, total hogwash, and that's hard to get beyond.  This \\"gold\\" should be left buried.	2001-04-13
US	52446508	R3GW74P2NTP0T	0679740082	917010032	Living a Political Life: One of America's First Woman Governors Tells Her Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great political book	Kunin was a state legislator for many years, lt. governor and governor of Vermont.  I enjoyed her book very much.  It is perhaps the best memoir of a career in state government I have read. <br />Kunin's book is mostly about her ascent to the top of Vermont politics, not what she did once she got there.   More of the book is devoted to her career as a legislator and ver various campaigns than her tenure as Governor.  She tells her story very much as that of a woman in politics, not just a political player.  All this, I think, gives the book a more universal appeal than a Vermont-centered book would.  <br />Kunin is an excellent storyteller, but what makes the book truly special is its degree of frankness.  Contemporary politicians generally don't write good books.  Too often their books are pieces of revisionist history, extended press releases, or platforms.  Kunin's book is nothing like that.  She names names, she explores her doubts, she even commits the ultimate political taboo of expressing frustration with constituents.    Beyond all that this is a flat out interesting, well-written book.<br />Kunin is an interesting character.  She does a good job of conveying her sense of wonder at the improbability of it all.  Kunin was not only the first woman governor of Vermont, she is also a Jewish immigrant who fled Nazi occupied Europe as a child and whose father committed suicide.  Interestingly, she doesn't much discuss her parents and their generation, and her story of fleeing Europe until near the end of the book, when she mounts the podium for the first time as Governor.  This is an excellent device.  Kunin plunges right into her political journey rather than the traditional, \\"When I was a child\\" By the time she tells us about her parents, we have reason to be interested in them.  And their story is so unusual that it could make for an interesting book in itself.  All that adds up to convey the point that her arrival was not at all anticipated by her past.  Thisis a great way to end a book about politics.<br />State politicians seldom produce books.  This is a welcome exception.  The book seems to have staying power and should be read by anyone interested either in state politics, or women in politics.  I enjoyed it immensely.	2001-04-05
US	52446508	R219PN6YXBFQI2	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I said Bud Light	Don't judge this book by its cover.  Like the confused bartender of the above-mentioned commercials, you may misunderstand what City of Light appears to be.  But don't let that scare you.  It's worth reading.     <br />This is a novel about Buffalo, 100 years ago.  It isn't a romance, and it isn't a mystery, which apparently some of the other Amazon reviewers mistook it to be.  It really defies easy classification.  Never mind that, it is a richly atmospheric, compelling story that will be of special interest to people from Buffalo and people interested in the turn of the last century.  The main character, Louisa Barrett, is a metaphor for her city.  At the moment, she is grand.  She finds herself in the company of greatness.  She is naive, however and has little control over her own life.  Her seeming independence is an illusion, which is only fully revealed for what it is near the end of the book.  She seems to fleetingly grasp the implications of this condition, but she submits to this and goes with the flow of her life, even as her environment slowly disintegrates around her.  In a way, the most important part of the book is the very end, which relays the fates of the various characters and the city itself.  The somewhat anti-climactic solution to the murder mystery, which lurks throughout the book as its major sub-plot, does not tie everything together.  This deceptively quick afterward does.  Barrett is Buffalo, that's the real story.<br />In the meantime, Belfer's dedication to historical accuracy and attention to detail make the book enjoyable to read.  I tend to prefer non-fiction to fiction, so I especially enjoyed  this novel for its historical reflections.  Belfer manages to work \\"real\\" historical characters into the story, but she doesn't make the mistake that Caleb Carr does by overemphasizing their roles or ascribing unrealistic actions to them.  Moreover, Belfer resurrects more lesser-known \\"real\\" historical figures from Buffalo's past than famous ones.  Perhaps this is less interesting to readers with non-connection to Buffalo, but it delighted me.	2001-03-29
US	52446508	R23OCOTLVQMHQC	0465026133	802361939	In Search Of Deep Throat: The Greatest Political Mystery Of Our Time	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Woodward's secret is still safe...	In Search of Deep Throat is at once both interesting and not very good.  Garment is not really a writer.  The book would have been better if written by a reporter.  Instead, like the lawyer that he is, Garment feels compelled to establish the facts of the case first, so he devotes too much space to outlining what happened in Watergate.  The book really shouldn't need to do this because Watergate could and has been the subject of entire books.  If the reader doesn't know about Watergate already, he or she has no reason to be interested in Deep Throat's identity.  <br />The second problem is with Garment's treatment of suspects that he rules out.  He repeatedly makes reference to theories or theorists who speculate that X was Deep Throat, without identifying who forwarded such theories and how they were forwarded.  The book would be far more interesting if it catalogued various Deep Throat theories in greater detail.  Perhaps even worse, Garment discounts various candidates apparently based on their temperament, their apparent loyalty to Nixon, their presumed aversion to the type of sneakiness perpetrated by Deep Throat or some other very superficial reason. <br />It gets worse.  Garment rules someone out based on his wife's first glance at the suspect's wife.  He settles on John Sears (this is not letting the cat out of the bag - Garment identifies Sears within the first few pages) in part because it makes sense to his wife.  I was hoping that the case for Sears would be stronger than the case against others.  This was not to be.  At one point, Garment lays out a relatively compelling case that Sen. Robert F. Bennett was Deep Throat.  He then concludes that Bennett was not basically, I guess, because he doesn't smoke and drink.  Patrick Gray is ruled out because...why?  I'm not sure.  <br />Garment's Sears theory is dependent in part on Sears secretly actually being two sources in All the President's Men.  Garment thinks Sears is a Bernstein source because the material supplied by this source sounds like Sears to Garment.  That presumption was why Garment hadn't really thought about Sears as Deep Throat before.  Then it occurred to him that Woodward and Bernstein did not always reveal their sources to each other, so Sears could have been a source for both.  Other than that, Garment's basic case for Sears is that his mannerisms seem compatible to those attributed to Deep Throat in All the President's Men.  <br />There are a few big problems with this.  The first is that Woodward revealed Deep Throat's identity to Bernstein.  Even if Woodward didn't know that Sears was a source for Bernstein, Bernstein would know that Sears was Deep Throat.  Why would Bernstein allow him to be turned into two characters for the book he co-wrote?  The other problem is that Bernstein's source interacted with Bernstein in a completely different way than Deep Throat did with Woodward.  Deep Throat was extremely secretive - Bernstein's source was not nearly so.  Why would the same person insist on cloak-and-dagger tactics to communicate with Woodward while at the same time apparently taking phone calls from Bernstein?  <br />If there is an answer to that question, it is not in the book.  The book would be more interesting anyway with more concrete evidence, such as evidence that Sears was or was not in one place or another on one date or another.  Phone records, testimony, etc. are all missing.  Garment basically makes his case based almost entirely on his assessment of different personalities.  The topic itself is inherently interesting enough to have inspired me to read the book quickly, but in the end I still don't feel like I know who Deep Throat is.	2001-03-22
US	52446508	R1X0REA5HJC0L8	067088796X	336544293	Me: by Jimmy (Big Boy) Valente	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Silly and funny in parts, subtle in others	&quot;Me by Jimmy (Big Boy) Valente,&quot; Garrison Keillor's satire of Jesse Ventura, in parts is very funny.  The degree to which it mirrors Ventura's &quot;I Ain't Got Time to Bleed,&quot; which was written either after this one or contemporaneously, is scary.  Keillor moves between being completely silly, which is when he's at his funniest, to a very subtle kind of satire which virtually copies Ventura's schtick.  The subtle humor is the real satire, though the silliness is funnier.  <br />Keillor's point, I think, by inserting almost verbatim elements of Ventura's self-proclaimed story and rationale for entering politics in an absurd setting is to highlight the absurdity of the actual, \\"serious\\" Ventura and his supporters.  The only problem with this is that the satire comes across as slow against the straight-out goofiness, such as Keillor's description of fictional professional wrestlers (\\"Mr. Disaster.  His hair grew six inches per day; you could actually watch it grow.\\")  On the whole, Me is funny and quick and is the best political satire I've read since Al Frankin's &quot;Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot.&quot;	2001-01-10
US	52446508	R1L0F8ESQ0RF4V	0395720419	438957874	While the Music Lasts: My Life in Politics	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An almost unique political book	The Bulger book was also very good, but somehow less profound.  If books by governors are rare, books by state legislators are all but unknown.  This is too bad.  Bulger has some great stories.  He's at his best when he's telling them about some of the characters of South Boston with names like \\"Knocko McCormack\\" and \\"The Good Robb,\\" as well as less interestingly named Massachusetts politicians.  Bulger's stories about campaigns and legislative battles are great, as are his accounts of a few vacations he took and clients he took on as a lawyer.  The book has added punch because Bulger holds nothing back in describing various political opponents from four decades in politics.  He seems to go to great length to name as many names as possible, and explain in as much detail about the shortcomings of the people with those names.  If I knew who some of these characters were, the book would be more interesting still, but Bulger is descriptive enough to make his characters come to life.<br />He's at his worst when describing a few longer accounts about incidents towards which he is still very bitter including his fight against bussing in Boston and his defense against allegations of corruption.  Here Bulger indulges in a level of thoroughness that seems more designed to construct an irrefutable argument than an interesting story.  His sense humor, which is the book's strength elsewhere, is often absent here.  <br />Another weakness is that Bulger basically only tells the story of one battle to pass a bill.  While his stories about campaigns and scandals are interesting, they are not especially unique - but this is one of the only memoirs ever written by a state legislator, I would have liked to have read more about legislating.  <br />I read the book very swiftly.  I liked Bulger, though I get the sense that I would have frequently been at odds with him if I was active in Massachusetts politics during his time.  On the whole, the book was very enjoyable and instructive on state politics.	2001-01-06
US	52446508	R2FZPQNH88C2JY	0451200861	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom up	Books	2	0	6	N	N	Won't satisfy wrestling fans or political junkies	&quot;I Ain't Got Time to Bleed&quot; was pretty bad.  It was mildly entertaining, but less so than the very funny, &quot;Have a Nice Day,&quot; by Mick Foley.  It had virtually no informational value as a book about politics.  Basically, Ventura devotes a little space to different phases of his life without getting into too much detail about any of them.  He tells few wrestling stories, no war stories, and devotes only a few pages to his campaign for governor.  He devotes a bit more space to a somewhat vapid discussion of his positions on issues.  All in all I cam away from the book with less respect for the idea of Jesse Ventura as governor, but more interested in the story of what's going on there in Minnesota.  The real story is still waiting to be told.	2000-12-06
US	52446508	R3F9CHOTRXS6PU	0393050327	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Catch the Wave	The temptation to reduce what a book is \\"about\\" to one sentence produced the summary that this book is about the doomed ship, Andrea Gail.  It is not.  The Perfect Storm is about a storm.  A really bad one.  But since  weather phenomena, especially weather phenomena out in the middle of the  ocean, don't have many story elements, people who encountered the storm are  brought in to make a story out of it.  The sailors on The Andrea Gail  are  only the most prominent such folks, but Junger describes the fates of  several, including many who lived to tell their tales.<br />As everyone who  even reads the beginning of the book know, the sailors on The Andrea Gail  didn't get to wait for the movie.  Junger reconstructs what could have  happened to them based on what others survived.  Yet their story is  essentially just an anchor to a wild, chaotic story about a wild, chaotic  thing.  In parts the book reads like a mystery, in part like a science  book, in parts like an adventure novel.  The result is enjoyable, but the  hype about this story has reached gale force and has acquired a bit of  bluster.  It's a good, short guy book. Nothing more.<br />I also saw the  movie, which I think compliments the book well.  As I was reading about 100  foot waves, I was wondering what they could possibly look like.  The movie  answers that question.  Junger describes something awesome and sublime, the  movie, which has been rightfully criticized for being schmaltzy in parts,  shows it.  <br />The Perfect Storm is a short and compelling book, so even if  you don't like it, it won't be a big investment of time.  I did like the  book and am all the happier about being a land-lubber after finishing it.	2000-07-16
US	52446508	RKS8H92K0PPKG	1568361548	610500272	Niagara: A History of the Falls	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The Rise and Falls of Niagara	&quot;Niagara\\" is a nice little book, stringing together a series of anecdotes about Niagara Falls and its immediate region, especially from the mid 19th century to the mid 20th century.  As histories go, it is fairly  light (the author does not cite his facts, although he does include an  extensive bibliography), but Pierre Berton is adept at telling stories,  especially human stories.  <br />The stories mostly develop along one of two  themes - daredevil encounters with the Falls, and human manipulation,  either for the purpose of exploitation or protection of the Falls.  Berton  is best with the small stories of explorers, tightrope walkers, barrel  riders, a family of \\"rivermen\\" (the Hills), and their ilk.  The small  becomes large with what is perhaps the best-crafted story, that of Lois  Gibbs and the toxic tragedy of Love Canal, with which Berton ends the  book.<br />Although the story of the Falls did not end in 1980, Love Canal is  a fitting final story.  Despite the occasional preservationist triumphs,  the story of the Falls really culminates in Love Canal.  The natural wonder  of the Falls became framed by hucksters, factories, power stations, tacky  museums, homes, roads, manicured parks and everything else unnatural.   Engineers even managed to stop the falls in an attempt to clear out fallen  rocks (they wisely chose not to once they realized that the rocks propped  up the rock face behind the falls).  A visit to the Falls today is a  jarring reminder of what a mess we humans have made of the natural world.   It is an obscene juxtaposition of nature's best and humanity's chintziest.     <br />Berton is less skilled at relaying scientific stories about the  formation of the falls, and the energy and chemical industries.  He also  seems less than passionate when writing about big business deals - his  treatment of power-mavens Adam Beck and Robert Moses palls beside his  treatment of activist Lois Gibbs or \\"riverman\\" Red Hill.  As a result, the  book issomewhat inconsistent and (ironically, considering the subject  matter) does not always flow.<br />Conspicuously missing from \\"Niagara\\" is  ancient Native American history and the eventful history of the last 20  years.  The former may not be possible to write for lack of information,  but the latter (which includes the establishment of a gambling casino  overlooking the Falls) warrants an update.  Also lacking is some of the  political history surrounding the Falls.  For all these reasons, this is  more a three-and-a-half star book than a full four star book.  But I'm  givivng it four because it was fun to read and provided me, as a native of  Western New York, with some history of my home region.  I'm not sure how  interesting all this will be for those with no personal experience of the  Falls, but for those of us who do, its worth reading.	2000-06-14
US	52446508	RB0B30I9WDDOS	0684822911	260759335	Founding Father: Rediscovering George Washington	Books	4	9	11	N	N	First in war, first in peace and hopefully first in a series	I was so enraptured with Richard Brookhiser's brief biography, \\"Alexander Hamilton, American,\\" that upon finishing I immediately launched into \\"Founding Father.\\"  \\"Founding Father\\" is actually the earlier of the two  books, and is somewhat less well developed, but is very enjoyable  nonetheless.  If we are lucky, it will turn out to be the first in a series  of brief biographies Mr. Brookhiser writes about the founders.<br />Brookhiser  describes \\"Founding Father\\" as a \\"moral biography.\\"  The book is more an  extended essay on Washington's character than a chronicle of his life.  Brookhiser's book on Hamilton manages to serve both purposes for that  founder in roughly the same brief space, and for that reason is more  satisfying.  But the examination of Washington's character is satisfying in  another way - he comes off as a very worthy father for our country.   <br />Fatherhood is very much the theme of this book.  Parallel themes of  Washington's career and character converge when Brookhiser reflects on the  meaning of the term \\"father of his country.\\"  He concludes that Washington  was the type of father who knew when his progeny was ready to move on  without his parenting.  For Brookhiser, Washington's greatest contribution  was his knowing when to quit.  He did not quit in defeat, but exactly at  the point when he could have become something like a king (both when he  stepped down as Commander in Chief after the war and after he declined to  run for a third term). Brookhiser makes the point compellingly -  Washington's leadership was to give the work back to the people and to cast  dynastic succession out of the American tradition (the other George W  should pay attention!)<br />Since the book is short, it isn't a large  investment of time to read.  It works as a nice, refreshing reminder about  a genuine hero from history.  If it were much longer, it would have needed  some other purpose to work.  As it is it works well as a study in character  and leadership.I eagerly await Mr. Brookhiser's next installment.	2000-06-02
US	52446508	R3E3KABGN6M35L	0815715579	647638587	Making Laws and Making News: Media Strategies in the U.S. House of Representatives	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A classic	This is a classic account of the intersection between media and legislating.  Tim Cook takes both a broad look at legislators' media strategies and more closely at some specific cases.  This is political  science, not political drama, so it will be especially helpful for academic  purposes.  However it is also highly interesting and not as dry as some  political science.  The book's one flaw is that it is aging.  Cook's  observations were made prior to the rise of Newt Gingrich and his  media-intensive style of governance.  There is still a big distinction  between a \\"work horse\\" and a \\"show horse\\" in \\"Making Laws and Making News.\\"    Now that Newt's gone, perhaps equilibrium has been restored and the norms  described in this book are coming back into vogue.  If not, it is still an  invaluable comparative resource - I'm certainly not aware of any other  source that looks at this particular subject.  After all this time \\"Making  Laws and Making News\\" is still a headliner.	2000-05-31
US	52446508	R38VFP9AQWAFX8	0786882239	560046112	A Tabloid History of the World	Books	1	2	6	N	N	News Flash: This One�s No Headliner	The premise of this \\"book\\" (more like an extended magazine-style gag) is funny - what if world history was covered by a New York Post style tabloid?  The execution, however, just doesn't work.  Most of what's in here are  faux front-pages with headlines that are supposed to be funny.  Some of the  better ones include \\"Dow-ner\\" (for the stock market crash of 1929), \\"Head  Fed Dead\\" (for the death of Alexander Hamilton), and \\"Sodom No-Morrah\\" (for  the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah).  Yes, those are the better ones.  I  give the author credit for some of the gags that don't work, but were still  gags, but too many of these headlines are almost serious.  What's funny  about \\"White House Run by Wilson's Wife\\"?  \\"Lincoln is a Manic Depressive\\"?  \\"Caesar Slain\\"?  These may be how such events could actually have been  covered by a tabloid, but there's nothing inherently funny about  that.<br />Oddly, several of the \\"historical\\" stories were so recent as to  have actually been covered by contemporary tabloids (even the Hamilton  killing was covered by tabloids - Hamilton himself founded the New York  Post).  I'm not sure about the point of the \\"recent history\\" headlines -  that McDonough could write better headlines than real tabloid editors?<br />Another low point is the series of headlines about Jesus. McDonough  seems to be worried about offending Christians, so he never uses the name  \\"Jesus\\" (until he covers John Lennon's claim that the Beatles were bigger  than Jesus with the side-splitting headline, \\"Bigger than Jesus\\" [wasn't  that an actual headline from the time?]) Otherwise, Christ is simply  \\"Miracle Man.\\"<br />By far, the most cringe-inducing aspect of the book is  the inclusion of fake \\"articles\\" accompanying some of the headlines.  The  articles are so un-funny that they are painful to read.  So don't.  Don't  read any of it.  This book is not worth your time.  And that's the way it  is.	2000-05-29
US	52446508	R3U61L65GJJAN3	0684839199	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A Great Introduction to a Great Man	What a wonderful book!  \\"Alexander Hamilton, American\\" manages to pack quite a bit into 217 pages: the story of Hamilton, a plausible version of his essence and personality, and a survey of the clashes of Revolutionary  War generation titans.  Richard Brookshiser accomplishes all this  beautifully in this brief, highly readable book.<br />Brookshiser is not  interested in all the little details of Hamilton's life and times.  He is  not interested in reproducing volumes of Hamilton's writings, letters to  Hamilton, or articles about Hamilton.  He is interested in telling a story,  and then making points about the role of words, rights, and passion in  Hamilton's character.<br />I'm guessing that most Americans don't know the  story of Alexander Hamilton, the relatively poor immigrant who became one  of this nation's most important founders.  Hamilton today is respected, but  not always revered as some of his opponents like Jefferson and Madison are.  Brookshiser reveres him.  But he writes with a kind of awe for many who did  not share the same feelings for each other.  \\"It is impossible not to love  John Adams,\\" (p. 130)  Brookshiser writes.  Really?  Who loved him back  then?  Not Hamilton, not Jefferson.  Hamilton and Jefferson were, of  course, at odds with each other, too.  But not enough so as to prevent them  from joining forces against Aaron Burr in 1800, who eventually killed  Hamilton in a duel four years later.<br />The soap opera intrigue of the  founders as highlighted by this book stands out as more severe than any  product of current politics.  Indeed, all of what people don't like about  politics today was magnified and exaggerated in Hamilton's' time:  back-biting and betrayal, partisan extremism, grandstanding and  demagoguery, biased media, long political careers, abuse of power,  corruption, racism, and sex scandals.<br />Hamilton was the central figure in  America's first sex scandal. During his tenure as Washington's first  Secretary of the Treasury (Washington alone rises above the fray in  Brookshiser's early America), Hamilton was accused of financial  shenanigans.  Proof lay in payments he made to a shady character named  James Reynolds.  Hamilton's defense was a detailed confession to an affair  with Reynolds' wife - the payments were more or less hush money.  Reynolds  himself was guilty of many things, including apparently using his wife as  bait in this sordid blackmail scheme.  Hamilton denied financial  malfeasance, but admitted adultery like no American politician since.    <br />I'm not sure if Brookshiser intended his Hamilton to be compared to Bill  Clinton, but I couldn't get the comparison out of my head.   Hamilton and  Clinton share much in common up to a point.  Both came from highly  inauspicious beginnings but rose to the pinnacles of power.  Both came from  broken homes with unreliable father-figures who abandoned them early in  life.  Both were highly intelligent Ivy-League lawyers.  Both had faith in  the federal government.  And both were accused of using their office for  personal financial gain, only to have a love affair reveled instead. If  this comparison is intentional, Brookshiser may be inviting a contrast  between Hamilton's choices at crucial moments and Clinton's.  Hamiton,  during his war, joined the army and served faithfully under General  Washington.  Hamilton did not lie about his affair, or even hide any of the  details about it (although neither was he proud of the matter - he seemed  genuinely regretful).  Hamilton was a principled lawyer who used words and  law to try to unveil natural rights, not simply win or propel his ambition.   To illustrate this last point, Brookshiser uses Burr as Hamilton's foil.   But Brookshiser's Burr could also be a more violent stand-in for Bill  Clinton.  Even if the specter of Clinton is purely illusionary (Brookshiser  does not mention him), the personalities and situations of the founders as  Brookshiser writes about them are highly accessible to the modern reader.   <br />Brookshiser doesn't let the reader forget that we're reading a book.  Brookshiser includes asides, such as the number of words in the book  (78,000 - p. 156).  Many of these asides are highly humorous, in a very  contemporary way - \\"William Cobbett...wrote under the name Peter Porcupine  (not drawn form Plutarch or Livy)\\" (p. 138); \\"Tallyrand would serve a  republic, an emperor, and three kings, though the only king to whom he was  loyal was Brie, the king of cheeses\\" (p. 136).  Somehow, none of this  detracts from the book. Brookshiser includes many examples of the founders'  own humor as well, suggesting that his writing is in the same vein.  <br />But  ultimately \\"Alexander Hamilton, American\\" is a serious and respectful book  about a serious and important historical figure. Brookshiser clearly  believes in the \\"great man\\" theory of leadership, and further believes that  Hamilton qualifies.  Regardless of whether Hamilton was great, this book is  a great introduction to the man, and a good story too!	2000-05-27
US	52446508	R2ET65Y99E98EZ	0226420213	565762552	Crosstalk: Citizens, Candidates, and the Media in a Presidential Campaign (American Politics and Political Economy Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not Primary Colors	\\"Crosstalk\\" is a useful compilation of academic papers on communications during the presidential campaign of 1992.  The foci are on campaign discourse, public, candidate and media agendas, and voting.  I characterize  this book as \\"useful,\\" not \\"compelling,\\" \\"engaging,\\" or \\"stimulating\\"  because it is none of those things.  It is not a non-fiction version of  \\"Primary Colors,\\" nor is it a campaign journal like \\"The Making of the  President,\\" or any sort of linear story at all.  If you are reading this  book, there's a good chance it has been assigned in a class, you are doing  research or you are a political scientist yourself.   If this is the case,  \\"Crosstalk\\" is certainly the best academic treatment of its subjects that I  have come across thus far.  <br />\\"Crosstalk\\" is packed with facts, charts,  interviews, endnotes and references.  It is meticulous in its methodology.   Many of the observations about the 1992 election are useful in observing  the current (2000) race.      <br />\\"Crosstalk's\\" major shortcoming is that it  is unnecessarily dry.  A campaign is full of anecdotes, has a natural story  line, and many dramatic moments.  There's no reason, except possible  maintaining academic propriety, that the book needs to read like a  biological journal.  The human element is injected through interviews with  voters, but the effect comes across like the voters are specimens.  They  come off as amusingly ignorant.     <br />But \\"Crosstalk\\" is not about  narrative.  It's about political science.  And it serves its purpose well.   While \\"Crosstalk\\" may not make the short list of political pleasure  readings, it should be right up there as a source for academic purposes.	2000-05-24
US	52446508	R1V39TXU4LVG79	0520218981	876929784	Paradise Lost: California's Experience, America's Future	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Exposes the deceptive allure of ballot initiative governance	\\"Paradise Lost\\" is about California governance, but it has national implications and should not be dismissed as a regional book.  The topic is governance by ballot initiative, and the impact of perhaps the most  influential ballot initiative of them all, Proposition 13.  <br />Prop 13 was  enacted in 1979 ostensibly to cap property taxes in California.  The  campaign for its passage was bankrolled by some eccentric conservative  millionaires, and California has been trying to cope ever since its  passage.  Schrag's book exposes how the seemingly good idea was packaged  and sold to a gullible public, how education and human service have  suffered ever since, and how the state's tax system has become a  Frankenstein Monster favoring long-term wealthy residents and strip malls  over more mobile Californians and manufacturing firms.   <br />The strength of  this book is its in-depth analysis of the history and impact of Prop 13.   The focus on this one initiative is so great that the book is almost about  it and not the mechanism by which it became law (the ballot initiative).   But this approach is justified to illustrate Schrag's main point, that  ballot initiatives are deceptive and make bad laws.  <br />An excellent  compliment to this book is David Broder's \\"Democracy Derailed,\\" which  focuses more on the degree to which the ballot initiative industry has  become dominated by monied interests.  Together, these books paint a bleak  picture of states, especially California, where so-called \\"direct  democracy\\" is a regular part of governance.<br />This particular form of  governance is actually popular because it conveys the illusion of  voter-control.  Most Californians would never dream of eliminating the  initiative option, despite the imposing cost of putting a measure on the  ballot, the prohibitive length of ballots crammed with several (sometimes  scores) of complicated, sometimes competing initiatives, or the confusing  tactics by which individual measures areadvocated or opposed.  \\"Paradise  Lost\\" will probably get more angry responses than converts from the Golden  State, but it should serve as a cautionary tale for the rest of us.<br />The  only flaw to this book is that the transition between the general  discussion and the case of Prop 13 is clunky.  More examples should have  been explored in the general discussion, and the mechanisms of the  procedure should have been better explained.  The implication that the  means are not justified by the ends would leave James Madison wanting for a  more principled defense of the representative government alternative.   <br />But on the whole, \\"Paradise Lost\\" is a strong contribution to a dialogue  with few too participants.	2000-05-19
US	52446508	R1D0169X7S45X0	1852427205	736750636	Pornocopia, Updated Edition: Porn, Sex, Technology and Desire (A Five Star Title)	Books	2	20	22	N	N	What is this book trying to be?	What is a book titled \\"Pornocopia\\" about?  The worditself means nothing, except it hints that the book is aboutpornography in abundance and variety...\\" All this is true about \\"Pornocopia,\\" but the subtitle, \\"Porn, sex, technology and desire\\" is misleading...\\" I can imagine a book about porn without \\"sex\\" and \\"desire,\\" but the inclusion of those words seems more to confirm that yes, we're talking about the regular usage of the term \\"porn\\" and not some non-sexual metaphor.  But \\"technology\\" is the twist.  The book must be about the nexus between porn and technology.  Don't be fooled by the cover.  It isn't.<br />Laurence O'Toole is an unabashed porn consumer advocate.  His goal, with \\"Pornocopia,\\" is finally articulated in the closing words of the book: \\"Legal change is unlikely to come about...without a continued and far greater shift within the mainstream towards a brighter, more informed view on porn. Hopefully this book can feature as part of this cultural change\\" (p. 350).  The \\"legal change\\" O'Toole seeks is an easing of restrictions on porn, especially in the United Kingdom...O'Toole imagines a world where reliable \\"mainstream\\" publications review porn so consumers can make better choices, where the law comes down on the side of the porn consumer rather than the anti-porn activists, and where the content of porn is debated for its potential to arouse rather than its moral implications...In trying to change culture, his enthusiasm damages his credibility.  We get the point early on that he likes porn and doesn't think much of the arguments of porn's critics.  He dismisses the traditional objections with this statement: \\"it is possible to expose the moraltarians' ideological position as unacceptable to most people...their doctrine is refutable if you decide that you don't want to live in a theocratic state...\\" (p. 26).  That's about it for the \\"moraltarian\\" view (although he later addresses laws conceived of by such under-explored views).  Instead of the addressing the traditionalist objections, O'Toole promises to focus on the objections of some feminists such as Andrea Dworkin and Catherine MacKinnon...O'Toole starts to with vigor, but then he trails off into a brief history of the porn industry...<br />The history is one of the strongest sections of the book.  Here, basically factual information is conveyed in a linear narrative.  The logical next chapter would have been about the state of the industry today, but instead O'Toole veers off again, this time with a chapter that gripes about the lack of an industry in Britain...O'Toole jumps between only two countries, the U.S. and the U.K.  The U.S. story is interesting, the U.K. story is not. I'd imagine that even a British reader would share this opinion, because this is essentially the author's point.  The problem is that too much time and attention is spent proving how boring porn in the U.K. is...<br />But the weakest chapter of \\"Pornocopia\\" is the one that actually is devoted to technology.  Up until \\"The perils of cyberspace,\\" O'Toole's approach was basically to argue that \\"it's not as bad as you think.\\"...But by the time O'Toole gets to \\"cyberporn was not so `pervasive' or `ubiquitous' after all,\\" (p. 248) everything that came before seems suspect...There is a lot of porn on line, and it is almost impossible to miss it.  That fact does not imply the rightness or wrongness of the state of affairs, but any argument based on the opposite premise is very weak.<br />O'Toole's writing only gets weaker as the book draws to a close.  What exactly he's trying to do is very unclear...The resulting \\"Vox\\"- lite is worse than you're imagining and what it is doing in the book is anyone's guess.<br />\\"Pornocopia\\" manages to make an inherently interesting topic very dull...O'Toole's position is not untenable.  Far from it.  He simply over-reaches, lets his enthusiasm get the better of his argument, and covers too many angles with too little depth.	2000-05-18
US	52446508	R2JXW3AJD5I9FI	0140112405	309519710	The Selling of the President: The Classical Account of the Packaging of a Candidate	Books	4	52	55	N	N	A Classic Beginning to Show Its Age	This is the book that catapulted Joe McGinniss to nearly icon-status at the age of 25 in 1969.  At the time, it was a shockingly revealing book at how presidential candidate Richard Nixon was being sold - gasp - like a  product.  The original book jacket featured Nixon's face on a pack of  cigarettes, as if the notion of Madison Avenue ad-men playing a pivotal  role in a presidential campaign was dirty.<br />The book became such a classic  that it remains assigned reading in many government classes to this day.   But it is no longer shocking.  Today, the practices described actually seem  backward.  Rather than a jarring warning about how campaigns are trading  issue discussions for staged events, it today might be read as an  out-of-date how to book.  The discerning reader should not make this  mistake.  Instead, try to feel the original sentiment, the innocent  expectations the book assumes of the reader.<br />There are two interesting  aspects of this book that are ancillary to the main point.  The one is the  appearance of political figures, like Pat Buchanan and Roger Ailes, who  would go on to other things and remain well known today.  The most  interesting such example is none other than George Bush (the dad), who is  profiled as a mere Congressional candidate, epitomizing the \\"modern\\" type  of candidate who is \\"an extremely likable person\\" but is hazy on the  issues.  Bush's successful campaign featured \\"no issues\\" not even when his  opponent asked Bush \\"if he would favor negotiations...to end the Vietnamese  war\\" (see pages 44-45).  The point was that Bush, who wasn't especially  well-known, was a vapid product rather than a substantive candidate (some  things change, some stay the same).<br />The other interesting thing is what  happened to McGinniss.  You won't read this in the book, but after it was  published, McGinniss became a star at a very young age for a while.  After  the lecture tour, he didn't know what to do as a follow-up, so he started  writing a book which eventually was published as \\"Heroes.\\"  After skewering  Nixon, presumably the arch-typical villain of McGinniss's political  worldview, he wanted to find somebody who inspired him.  Predictably, he  didn't.  But \\"Heroes\\" is as much a self-revelatory story about the author's  self-disappointment as it actually is about the political subjects of the  book.  He ends by speculating that only Ted Kennedy came close to heroic  status, and that Kennedy would be the subject of his next book.  He wasn't.   Instead, McGinnis started writing true crime books, many of which were  successful.  Finally, in 1993 McGinnis came out with \\"The Last Brother\\"  about Kennedy's fall from hero-status.  The book ends in 1969, the year of  Chappaquiddick, but also the year \\"The Selling of the President\\" was  published.  As a book about Ted Kennedy, whose career is more interesting  after 1969, \\"The Last Brother\\" falls far short.  As a metaphor about a  young man whose career peaked too early (McGinnis), the book is  fascinating.<br />\\"The Selling of the President\\" is McGinnis' best, most  meaningful book.  It stands on its own, and, despite showing considerable  signs of age, still stands the test of time.  For more updated information  on presidential propaganda, read \\"Spin Cycle: Inside the Clinton Propaganda  Machine\\" by Howard Kurtz, or the excellent \\"On Bended Knee: The Press and  the Reagan Presidency,\\" which itself deserves to be considered a classic.   Interestingly, these books discuss presidencies that take what McGinnis is  describing, the selling of the presidency, beyond the campaign trail and  directly into the White House.  Today the \\"permanent campaign\\" does not  stop selling.	2000-05-16
US	52446508	R1F6LCL8Q8POGJ	0312113854	146553667	More Than Words: The Speeches of Mario Cuomo	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Inspiration in print!	This is an excellent compilation of the best speeches of America's foremost orator.  While the speeches lose some of their magic on paper (the Governor's delivery is an essential compliment to the texts), they remain  eloquent and beautiful examples of the speechwriting art. Consequently, the  book will appeal to fans of Mario Cuomo, students of speechwriting, and  those interested in history (especially political history in the 1980's and  1990's).   <br />A few speeches stand out as masterpieces, specifically two  from 1984.  The first is Cuomo's most famous speech, his keynote address to  the Democratic Convention of 1984.  The second, which is even better, is  the Notre Dame speech in which Cuomo explains how, as a Catholic governor,  he also supported abortion rights.  An entire book could be built around  this one speech.  Once Cuomo gets into his argument, his every word is  carefully chosen.  He uses the structure of his speech to construct a  penetrating, complicated and ultimately sensible argument.  Since this  speech, other politicians have attempted to ape Cuomo's argument without  fully understanding it by claming they are \\"personally against abortion,  but pro-choice in their official capacity.\\"  <br />This book can probably best  be appreciated if read along with other speech books.  The individual style  of the speakers emerge when several examples are read, and then contrasted  with other styles.  Ronald Reagan's speeches, which he did not write,  nevertheless stand out as evoking compelling patriotic visual images using  simple but entrancing language.  FDR's are marked by religious-sounding  language translated into entirely secular contexts.  John Kennedy's are  distinguished by soaring rhetoric that was global in scope and timeless in  the use of ancient, present and futuristic allusions.  Cuomo's speeches are  great as arguments.  He doesn't just paint pictures, he builds meaning on  top of meaning.  They are best appreciated as wholes ratherthan  strung-together sound bytes.   In this regard, Cuomo is a disciple of  Abraham Lincoln.  Like Lincoln's, Cuomo's speeches should stand the test of  time and give future generations insight into the logic of the speaker's  governing philosophy.<br /> Again, the one thing missing from the book is  Cuomo's voice.  As great as these are in print, they sound even better when  he's delivering them.  Perhaps it's too much to hope for a video  collection.  Until then, \\"More than Words\\" is more than adequate.  It's the  kind of book you want to keep for inspiration.<br />A good companion, which  gives insight into how a great speech was written, is Garry Wills' \\"Lincoln  at Gettysburg.\\"	2000-05-12
US	52446508	R3F4QJO4UQTPSA	0684844893	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	5	28	39	N	N	A Necessary Book	\\"Lincoln at Gettysburg\\" solidified Gary Wills' position as America's foremost popular historian.  The work is genuinely profound, and the temptation is to expect nothing less from his succeeding efforts.  While \\"A  Necessary Evil\\" doesn't quite attain the heights of \\"Lincoln,\\" it is worthy  and important.  It does what a good history, rather than a simple  chronicle, should-- it interprets the past so as to explain its relevance  to the present.  Wills tackles some of the most persistent myths of our  country's origin regarding the supposed foundation of its government on  anti-governmental values.  <br />Wills starts out with some broad points that  are hard to argue with, such as the evidence of the framers' goals to  create a more effective and efficient government under the Constitution  than that which preceded it under the Articles of Confederation.  But the  more nuanced arguments based on examining the language of the framers  (especially Madison) are the real value of this book are.  This is where  Wills excels.  He is convincing in his dismissal of the notions that the  framers intended states to be \\"sovereign;\\" meant for the second amendment  to protect the right of private gun ownership for personal use; thought of  the branches of government as \\"co-equal\\" and \\"balanced;\\" or that they meant  for the Constitution to abide nullification in any of its forms.  Some of  these items, such as use of the term \\"sovereign\\" and \\"co-equal\\" seem to be  Wills' pet peeves of Constitutional interpretation - that's fine, by  getting these seemingly semantic points off his chest he adds passion that  what from the pen of lessers could come across as dry and dull.  <br />The  book isn't all about language, but there's certainly enough there for those  who liked \\"Lincoln at Gettysburg.\\"   Much of the rest of the book is more  similar to another of Wills' recent books, \\"Certain Trumpets,\\" in that it  contains a series of brief profiles of historic figures (or movements) toillustrate his points.  This is how Wills discusses Nullification,  insurrection, vigilantes, \\"withdrawers\\" and \\"disobeyers.\\"   The section on  Nullification is the strongest because of its depth and thoroughness.  The  latter four sections are a bit superficial and are more removed from the  discussion of founding Constitutional concepts that is the bulwark of  Wills' argument. I think what Wills is trying to do is establish first what  the framers actually said and what they meant, then what some of the early  alternate agendas were, then after how later Americans misinterpreted the  framers' views.  But the transition is tenuous - Thoreau wasn't looking for  justification for his \\"withdrawal\\" in the Constitution, hippie communes  were not founded with James Madison in mind.  What holds the subjects of  the book together is their shared reverence for \\"anti-governmental\\"  values.<br />The book itself is beginning to acquire its own mythology.  Some  of its detractors are criticizing it for being some sort of liberal  revisionism.   This criticism is off mark.  First, Wills is critical of  both liberals and conservatives, but mostly reactionaries, radicals,  anarchists, and libertarians.  His position is not liberal per se, but more  a defense of Madisonian republicanism.  <br />That's why this book is  important - almost necessary -- Madisonian republicanism is under attack  from almost all sides and needs some modern-day defenders.  It is entirely  likely that put to referendum, the Articles of Confederation would beat out  the Constitution in a popular vote today.  This is a scary thought.  Wills  ends by contrasting the uses of government with the uses of fear and, not  unpredictably, concludes that government can, despite the myths, be a  necessary good.  That the notion isn't self-evident is a good reason to  read the book. <br />A good companion book is David Broder's \\"Democracy  Derailed,\\" about contemporary uses of ballot initiatives (it's more  interestingand related than it sounds).	2000-05-11
US	52446508	R44JXVJ1W1C9Y	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	Ever since I happened upon \\"Congo\\" several years back I have been a Michael Crichton fan.  I plow through every novel he churns out.  Like just about everything else he has written, \\"Timeline\\" makes for easy plowing.  Crichton manages to make even stress tests on an airplane fuselage  (\\"Airframe\\") compelling.  But he's lost something in  \\"Timeline.\\" This  latest book tires to be \\"Jurassic Park\\" set in the middle ages, with modern  folk using a new science to travel there instead of using new science to  resurrect the past.   Its not the triteness of the book that doesn't work -  Crichton has been using the same plot devices since \\"The Andromeda Strain\\"  - it's just that he's lost a little steam. This is hinted at by the tired  title and even the bland cover (maybe you can judge a book this way...)  Crichton usually works a new science into his every plot.  The science  usually allows something to happen that couldn't happen otherwise.  In  \\"Timeline,\\" quantum physics is used to travel through time (sort of).  But  the modern characters only travel into a story that could have happened  without them.   The modern stuff is almost superfluous.  That the modern  characters have an impact on the outcome is also superfluous - medieval  characters could have had a similar impact.  Minus the gee-whiz science,  the fantasy story is well researched but not terribly imaginative.  When I  finished reading \\"Jurassic Park,\\" \\"Sphere\\" and others, I felt like I had  read something special.  \\"Timeline\\" doesn't leave that sense.  It's all too  ordinary, if fast paced.  I'm left wanting more.  But I guess that will  have to wait...unless we can speed up time to the release of his next book.	2000-04-29
US	52446508	R26K9VJVEQ9A2F	0684844257	306214571	Deadly Feasts: The "Prion" Controversy and the Public's Health	Books	3	2	10	N	N	In the shadow of the Hot Zone	Richard Preston did not create the disease thriller genre with\\"The Hot Zone,\\" but that book ignited interest in reading true,but thriller-novel-like stories about bizarre illnesses... Since \\"The Hot Zone,\\" disease thriller novels have spread like the flu, while true stories like Laurie Garrett's \\"The Coming Plague\\" have benefited from the booster-shot of attention lavished on \\"The Hot Zone.\\" The problem with the novels is that, because they are fiction, they simply are not as scary as a true story.  The problem with the true stories is that few have been written out with the unfolding drama of novels (although Garrett's book is worthwhile on its own standards).  \\"Deadly Feasts\\" attempts to re-create what Preston achieved.  Richard Rhodes, who tells science related stories, such as those of the inventions of the atom and hydrogen bombs, turns his skills to the story of \\"prions.\\" Prions cause - we think - Mad Cow disease and incurable human brain diseases. They aren't quite viruses, they aren't quite poisons.  Part of what's scary about the story is that we don't really know what they are, where they are, or how they are transmitted.  But prions are not ebola.  The ebola virus gave \\"The Hot Zone\\" many a revolting (described in nauseating detail) highly contagious death.  Death by prion is about as disgusting as death by Alzheimer's.  Sad, yes, but not inherently disgusting.  Nor do prions seem to be contagious like ebola.  Rhodes, then, doesn't have the raw material that Preston did. So, to enhance the icky factor, Rhodes links prion-diseases to cannibalism, describes exactly what happens to prion-infected brains, and even manages to turn scientific tests into opportunities to reveal what happens to the tissues being examined.  Preston's story is a journey into and out of mysterious Africa.  Rhodes, whose disease is most popularly associated with ho-hum England, manages to find flesh-eating New Guinea natives.  Preston's heroes are globe-trotting virus hunters, Rhodeshas globe-trotting academic researchers.  All this is enough to make \\"Deadly Feasts\\" interesting, and even suspenseful in parts.  But it doesn't work as well.  In the end, the disease itself is not quite as revolting as ebola.  The heroes of the story are not quite as dramatic (indeed, the apparent arrested of one of them for child molestation damages his protagonist-potential). \\"Deadly Feasts\\" never quite escapes the shadow of \\"The Hot Zone.\\" Rhodes doesn't even try.  He prefaces the book by trying to explain why prions are scarier than ebola.  The book-jacket compares the book to \\"The Hot Zone,\\" and Preston provides a peer review on the back cover (at least of my edition).  Still, \\"Deadly Feasts\\" manages to be engaging and even a little disturbing.  If you like the genre, \\"Deadly Feasts\\" makes for a good snack.	2000-04-29
US	52446508	R22OI88AIMH89F	0613025024	562576523	Desperation (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Interesting but empty journey to nowhere	King's ability to move a story along and keep it suspenseful are in full force in &quot;Desperation.&quot;  Fast moving though it is, however, the plot is not very satisfying.   What starts off seeming to be a scary story  about a cop-gone-mad in the middle of nowhere turns into a run-of-the-mill  supernatural story.  Well, not exactly run-of-the-mill.  Much horror gets  its power from familiarity.  A non-supernatural thriller is not just scary  because of the hook at the end of the chapter, but because it juxtaposes  recognizable places, people, situations with terrifying possibilities that  &quot;could happen...&quot;  Supernatural thrillers usually do the same  thing but take it up a notch by playing with familiar myths, or simply  exaggerating the horror of the familiar.  So, in &quot;Salem's Lot&quot; it  turns out that vampires are real after all.  In &quot;Carrie,&quot; the  girl who gets picked on in high school does what we all hoped to do in such  situations (or all feared if putting somebody else in the situation).   &quot;Desperation's&quot; source of evil is totally new.  No connection to  biblical arcana, no link to Native American mythology, no  see-it-everyday-scarecrow-come-to-life.  The evil thing is a new force.   And not a particularly powerful one, if you think about it.  The thing,  whose under-developed name, &quot;Tak,&quot; has an interesting  relationship with small crumbling trinkets and creepy animals, but its not  especially powerful, not especially meaningful, and not sufficiently  recognizable to awaken our deeply held fears.  Meanwhile, &quot;God's&quot;  role in the book manages to alienate the reader from the one familiar  supernatural being in the book.  Is King making fun of theology?  Is this  theology?  Are we supposed to guess that &quot;God&quot; isn't God?   <br />What we're left with is a book that mimics an aspect of its own story --  an interesting and scary journey to nowhere.	2000-04-25
US	52446508	RL1OI1VU0VYE9	0060392991	634723262	Mankind: Have a Nice Day - A Tale of Blood and Sweatsocks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If you read one wrestling book this year...	I recieved this book as a joke, but started reading it and it was actually good! I'm probably the one non-wrestling fan who has read this book, but hey, if there's another one of us out there and you happen upon this book, it is more entertaining than you might imagine.	2000-04-23
US	52446508	RX4DLDM7CVCA2	0151004641	517454879	Democracy Derailed: The Initiative Movement and the Power of Money	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A strong indictment of a dangerous trend	An odd phenomenon of American democracy is that trust of government and voter turnout has dropped as the franchise has expanded.  As the legally empowered citizenry becomes more diverse, its differences become more  difficult to deny.  This poses a problem for representative democracy -  good representatives who take the concerns of many into consideration  produce laws through compromises that rarely constitute wholesale victories  for any particular faction.  The result is the disenchantment of many,  especially some of the more newly enfranchised populations (voter turnout  is particularly low, for instance, amongst young people and African  Americans).  The traditionally powerful - the wealthy - have, since 1979  discovered a new way to exert their dominance, in the guise of an old  populist device: initiative and referendum.  <br />David Broder's new book  touches on the philosophical origins of I&amp;R, but its real value is its  exposure of the money behind the industry.  \\"Democracy Derailed\\" debunks  the notion that ballot initiatives empower regular citizens by explaining  the million-dollar minimum price tag to put a measure on the ballot in  California.  Broder details the layers of lawyers, media consultants, paid  signature gatherers, and political professionals involved in simplifying  and distorting the yes-or-no measures that have been mutating state laws in  California and other states.<br />The reality of I &amp;R is chilling, yet its  illusion of citizen empowerment is alluring.  So, \\"Democracy Derailed\\" is  not only fascinating and compelling, but it is also a terribly important  book.  The mechanics of democracy rarely generate the attention of issues  they are designed to address.  It takes a writer of Broder's stature to  draw attention to a subject such as this.  Will it be enough to stem the  dangerous tide of I&amp;R?  Maybe not, but its an important step in the  right direction. \\"Democracy Derailed\\" is an excellent compliment to 1998's  \\"Paradise Lost : California's Experience, America's Future\\" by Peter Schrag  and last year's \\"A Necessary Evil\\" by Gary Wills. Alan Rosenthal's \\"The  Decline of Representative Democracy\\" takes a more academic approach to the  state of state lawmaking and is also excellent.	2000-04-11
US	52446508	R39H6U4N6Y9LJF	0060391634	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	2	20	47	N	N	A scary book by a scary man	I give this book two stars instead of one because it was fun to read in a grotesque sort of way.  I don't recall another book since Allan Bloom's \\"Closing of the American Mind\\" that was so very disagreeable.  When Bork  was nominated for the Supreme Court, his critics were accused of  exaggerating his views.  If this book had been out back then, there would  have been no need to exaggerate. I suppose I can't blame Bork.  His name  has become a verb - \\"to overwhelm and devastate.\\"  The St. Louis Rams  Borked the NFC last year.  He's probably also jealous that Clarence Thomas  was confirmed and he wasn't.  So to work out his frustrations, to good  judge has created a right-wing fantasy.  Did I read it wrong or is the  essence of this book that the Constitution has outlived its usefulness and  the Supreme Court (sans Bork) no longer has a place in our democracy?   Conservatives worried that their views have become too extreme should read  this book to feel like moderates.  Liberals who have begun to question  their political orientation should read it and question no more.  Moderates  should read it and leap quickly leftward off the fence.    I almost forgot  horror fans - they should read it too. \\"Slouching Towards Gomorrah\\" is more  horrifying than anything Stephen King can possibly imagine.	2000-04-11
US	52446508	R3TI12Y893Z2LB	0399144056	33146438	The Facts of Death	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Face the &quot;Facts,&quot; this book is dead	James Bond does not belong in a book with a sperm bank in Texas and a math cult.  If that isn't enough to scare you off &quot;Facts,&quot; this may be because you read &quot;Zero Minus Ten,&quot; Benson's first Bond novel.  &quot;Zero Minus Ten&quot; doesn't stand up well next to the Ian Flemming  books, but its so much better than anything John Garner produced that its a  breath of fresh air for Bond fans.  Raymond Benson may be the world's  biggest Bond fan, and his attention to the details about Bond established  by Flemming are both apparent and well used in &quot;Zero.&quot;  Morover,  the extent to which he mimics  Flemming's focus on food, places, cultures,  and even tobacco is a welcomed change from Garner's comic-book style of  writing.  In &quot;Facts,&quot; Benson doesn't so much seem to be mimicing  Flemming as he seems to be reproducing the devices that worked in his first  book.  The reproduction looses something in transition.  The book seems  rushed and as silly as some of the Roger Moore movies Benson trashes in his  &quot;James Bond Bedside Companion.&quot;  Whoever has designated Benson as  the new Bond writer should let him work at his own speed.  Otherwise, I'm  sure somebody does it better.	2000-04-04
US	52446508	R1SNP6N9LDBGHG	0684862964	751802434	The CLINTON ENIGMA : A FOUR AND A HALF MINUTE SPEECH REVEALS THIS PRESIDENT'S ENTIRE LIFE	Books	3	4	6	N	N	No Mystery about this Enigma	The Clinton Enigma is misnamed.  The book is not about an enigma at all - the theory about Clinton is that he's all too predictable.   The only real mystery that Maraniss struggles with is why some people so viscerally hate Bill Clinton.  This book won't do much to diminish that hatred, but it  seems less written out of hate than disappointment and frustration. But  Maraniss' frustration seems driven by Clinton's avoidance of him.  This may  have some metaphorical application for the rest of us, but it's a somewhat  misleading motivation to write this mini-biography in the middle of the  Monica incident.  The book is worthwhile as a brief, speculative  psycho-biography of Clinton, but it won't endure.  Its more like New Yorker  article written in the middle of a story that is very much in play.  Less  than two years later, the book is well out of date.  Still, at 110 pages  it's hardly a waste of time to read.	2000-04-03
US	52446508	R228IQKE56IR9G	0671679457	604935317	The Last Brother	Books	1	18	29	N	N	This book is more about Joe McGinniss  than Ted Kennedy	Joe McGinniss once was a good author.  At the age of 25, he wrote \\"The Selling of the President, 1968,\\" which has since become a classic, read in political science classes across the country.  Then something happened.  He  couldn't live up to the expectations others had of him.  His next book,  \\"Heroes\\" parallels the breakdown of his personal life with his growing  disenchantment with his heroes from the 60's.  He concludes that book with  the notion that the only figure he examined who came close to being a  genuine \\"hero\\" was Ted Kennedy, and that Kennedy would be the subject of  his next book.  He wasn't.  Instead, McGinniss left politics and started  writing true crime stories.  He was fairly successful in that genre, but  returns to politics with \\"The Last Brother,\\" the long awaited biography of  Ted Kennedy.  Amazingly, transparently, the whole point of this book is  that Kennedy couldn't live up to people's expectations of him and became  self-destructive as a result.  The book essentially ends with  Chappaquiddick, which happened in 1969, the same year \\"The Selling of the  President\\" was published.  But while that book may be been the culmination  of its author's life, Chappaquiddick was only one story in Ted Kennedy's.  Kennedy has been the most influential senator of the last 100 years and has  had his greatest impact on the course of American history in the years  since 1969.  All that is only touched on by McGinniss, who is more  concerned with using Kennedy as a stand-in for himself, and probably his  whole generation.  \\"Heroes\\" does it better, but Adam Clymer's new biography  of Kennedy is far superior if you want to read about the senator.	2000-04-01
US	52446508	R15U2UD55QVZJ	0399137637	811592087	Untitled Confidential	Books	1	0	0	N	N	A stinker!	It's a good thing for Mr. Burke for the Supreme Court's Times v. Sullivan decision.  This stinking piece of fiction would otherwise be considered libelous.  Ted Kennedy is probably the most influential senator of the past  hundred years, yet Burke, who once worked for him, focuses only on  tabloid-style gossip and hardly touches on the substantive impact Kennedy  has had on the course of American policy and history.  For a much, much  better book on Ted Kennedy, read, \\"Edward M. Kennedy\\" by Adam Clymer.	2000-04-01
US	52446508	RA25V5JPOJ8R0	0399137637	811592087	Untitled Confidential	Books	1	0	1	N	N	A stinker!	It's a good thing for Mr. Burke for the Supreme Court's Times v. Sullivan decision.  This stinking piece of fiction would otherwise be considered libelous.  Ted Kennedy is probably the most influential senator of the past  hundred years, yet Burke, who once worked for him, focuses only on  tabloid-style gossip and hardly touches on the substantive impact Kennedy  has had on the course of American policy and history.  For a much, much  better book on Ted Kennedy, read, \\"Edward M. Kennedy\\" by Adam Clymer.	2000-04-01
US	52446508	R2VDZFF1ZW1565	0688142850	266883085	Edward M. Kennedy : A Biography	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The best biography of a current office holder I've ever read	I've often found that biographies are best written after the subject's career has finished.  Since Ted Kennedy's career has no end in sight, that poses a problem for anyone wanting to paint this work in progress.  Adam  Clymer succeeds.  First, he focuses on Kennedy's substantive  accomplishments rather than the gossip that more interests writers like Joe  McGinniss (The Last Brother) or Richard Burke (The Senator).   Second, he  isolates aspects of Kennedy's legislative style, such as giving credit to  others and working across party lines, that serve as generalizable lessons.   Third, though the book is fairly long, it moves quickly.  Ted Kennedy  already has a much longer public life than most, so there is much more to  write about.  Clymer doesn't make the mistake of wallowing in unnecessary  details just to show us all how much research he did.  Fourth, although  Clymer does not gloss over Kennedy's shortcomings, he is also open in his  admiration of Kennedy's accomplishments.  The last several pages compare  both, and then the whole package against other accomplishments of great  senators.  The message is clear that Ted Kennedy is a titan.  The evidence  is hard to refute.   Critics of Kennedy differ on issues of fundamental  value rather than issues of effectiveness or sheer impact.  Ted Kennedy  deserves a biography like this, and those of us interested in his long  career deserve to read it.	2000-04-01
US	52446508	R2GL68DHH7JUMX	0671016709	374701981	A Darker Shade Of Crimson (Ivy League Mysteries)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Bad in every way	This book was so awful in so many ways that an attempt to fully review it would convey more of a suggestion that it should be read than I am willing to make.  This was a real stinker.  I made my way through not to find out  the &quot;surprise&quot; ending but because I paid for the book.  Don't  make the same mistake.	1999-08-25
US	52446508	R355O6P931HI44	0399901183	855782718	License Renewed	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Unreadable.	John Gardner not only looks bad next to Ian Flemming -- he just doesn't write well.  His books tend to be comic books without the pictures.  Some later ones turn out to be bearable, but this one, his first, is not.  As an  avid Bond fan I have twice attempted to get through this realtively short  and simple book.  I just can't do it.  Its too bad.  This license should be  revoked.	1999-08-04
US	52446508	RFZQ4HMO3PC0	0345415000	715760640	The Hellfire Club	Books	2	18	28	N	N	Satanic Cult or Ham, Turkey and Tobasco Sandwitch?	A few years back I was pleasantly surprised by listening to the audio version of Koko, a genuinely creepy and intricate novel.  After that I read The Throat, which was more of the same.  The I read Mystery, which  contained some of the same characters and situations as the first two, but  was childish, poorly sewn together and neither scary nor suspenseful.   Peter Straub, I guess, can write hot or cold.  The Hellfire Club is best  consumed on a hot day, because it is definitely in the latter category.   The sad thing about this book is that there's a great set up.  Straub sets  the stage for a weird and mysterious drama.  The tension in the early part  of the book is terrific.  Then pieces start falling into place and the  answers to mysteries are all anticlimactic.  The best example is the title  itself - is the Hellfire Club a satanic cult?  An evil ancient society?  A  turkey, ham and Tabasco sandwich?  Well, it doesn't really matter because  the club is ancillary to the rest of the book.  The story is really about a  fairly straightforward and uninteresting serial killer.  For a good chunk  of the book I assumed, then later just hoped, that he was a distraction.   He seemed too unimportant and uninteresting to be at the heart of the  mystery.  But as the book progressed it becomes clear that most of secrets  were revealed fairly early on.  I suppose we are expected to be entertained  by the villain's antics and his interaction with the protagonist.  I  wasn't.  Too bad.  It had potential for a while.	1999-08-04
US	52446508	R1E3MFJ40TOQE8	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	5	16	20	N	N	The Scariest Book I've Ever Read	Without a doubt, this was the scariest book I've ever read.  Maybe because its a true story.  Maybe because the killer was never caught.  Maybe because he was so darn weird. In any case, I actually had a physical  reaction while reading this book -- I developed actual goosebumps, the hair  on my arms stood up, and I think my heart beat faster.  I plowed through  this book as fast as I could because I just wanted to read more.  Not for  the faint of heart.	1999-08-04
US	52446508	R2MNN75L9PI3P6	0452280079	332519391	Halfway Heaven: Diary of a Harvard Murder	Books	3	24	33	N	N	Compelling writing, flawed analysis	Melanie Thernstrom, does a good job of conveying a sense of the environments from which the killer, Sinedu, and victim, Trang, came, to some extent their personalities, and the contradictions about how their  personalities were perceived.  She makes this all interesting and she  doesn't drag on too long.  She also does a good job at making the build-up  to the event both suspenseful and tragic. <br />At a point, through, the book  becomes sour grapes.  It isn't clear the author's vendetta against Harvard   has been brewing since she was a student or if it developed since  encountering difficulty in researching the story.  She names names of  administrators and even clerks who gave her a hard time investigating the  story.  She particularly bores down on a House Master, who she portrays as  a dishonest jerk, but doesn't really explain how he's responsible for the  deaths.  By comparison, there is just the implication that Sinedu's  parents, who seemed oblivious to her personality and uninterested in her as  a person, may have been neglectful.   <br />Thernstrom concludes, &quot;Sinedu  was possessed by spirits or psychosis; Trang was perfected and ready to  enter into the Pure Land; Harvard didn't foresee and couldn't prevent  anything.&quot;   Dissecting this reveals the flaw in her approach: <br />·  Thernstrom considers the possibility that Sinedu was actually possessed  through respectful quotes from Ethiopians and Vietnamese.  The author does  not attempt a spiritual analysis, as she does a psychological analysis, but  neither does she dismiss the possibility.  I don't find fault in this.  One  of the Ethiopians speculates that she could have been better cared for  because there is somebody to deal with evil spirits there, but not in the  U.S. If this tragedy happened in Ethiopia and someone wrote a book, it is  doubtful that it would have had anything at all to do with Harvard, yet the  nexus is the same:  a very sick girl living in a society ill equipped toidentify and deal with her. Thernstrom does acknowledge, again through  another's quote, &quot;the pattern of undertreatment in student health  services as `a reflection of the age-old problem that the culture of mental  health is not treated like other sicknesses.'&quot;  But the larger  cultural problem with attitudes about mental illness is given short-shrift  next to Harvard's particular problems.  The author offers several examples  of deans and administrators giving her a hard time for writing the story.   But she neither makes a compelling cause and effect case, nor does she   adequately outline a realistic course that could have prevented the  tragedy.<br />· She does discuss an unrelated case of two brothers with  &quot;bi-polar&quot; disorder, one of whom is &quot;undertreated&quot; at  Harvard, while the other is treated well at MIT.  She other Harvard horror  stories in an attempt to develop a pattern of psychological neglect.  This  pattern, of course, presupposes that Sinedu's illness was mental, not  spiritual (a similar tale of neglect could be written from the perspective  of a religious person who complains about Harvard's inadequate religious  resources).  This technique is unfair.  MIT has its own student deaths.   The famous cases have to do with Fraternities, hazing, and alcohol.  MIT  should not be used as an example of excellent care and attention for  students. Thernstrom offers some Johns Hopkins horror stories to suggest  that the problem is not exclusive to Harvard.  Her choice of examples,  however, betrays a certain elitism that even accepts that there is such a  thing as &quot;undertreatment.&quot;  The word suggests that students  should expect some sort of treatment, but treatment isn't much of an option  in the vast majority of human institutions.  I wonder if community college  students who are mentally ill get adequately identified and treated?  What  about high school students?  What about Burger King managers?  In what  sphereof life do most people receive mental health services - or even  physical health services - that are adequate?  When 43 million Americans  have no health insurance at all, why is it especially shameful that Harvard  was unable to identify and adequately treat an abnormally ill woman from a  foreign culture with minimal representation on campus?<br />· Sinedu was,  actually, receiving treatment.  She was seeing a therapist who the author  describes as incompetent and inadequately trained.  This begs the question,  what if all the &quot;negligent&quot; advisors did recognize Sinedu's  problems - what would they have done?  They would have referred her to a  therapist, like the one she was actually seeing.  Either that, or they  would have tried to deal with her themselves.  But that type of activity is  criticized by the author in another case because the advisor was not a  mental health professional.  So what would be different?  The actually  attempts to psychoanalyze the dead Sinedu herself.  If Sinedu's therapist  was inadequately trained to diagnose the living Sinedu, what gives this  author qualifications to cut through the clouds and divine a dead person's  psychosis?  The author's defense is twofold: (1) she refers to &quot;many  psychologists&quot; to whom she talked about the case; and (2) she offers  her analysis as a possibility, not a definitive statement.  But to the  first point, it is she who culls from the mostly unidentified psychologists  a diagnosis that appears in the book.  Moreover, their failures are not  discussed as the Harvard administrators' are.  To the latter point,  acknowledging that a specific mental illness is only a possibility, and  then offering up possession as the only alternative, leaves readers with  the impression that the psychoanalysis that appears in the pages is the  truth.  <br />· Finally, the least objectionable pillar of the book was its  treatment of the victim, Trang, as &quot;perfected and ready to enter into  thePure Land.&quot;  There's no reason she shouldn't be.  It would be in  very poor taste to stress or even touch on this person's flaws, whatever  they may have been.  That said, Trang's saintly depiction is used, not to  contrast the demonic Sinedu, but rather, the hideous Harvard.  Harvard  looks worse next to Trang, and in that sense, I think she is being  exploited to make a point.	1999-07-30
US	52446508	REUWZ5PM5X2MB	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	1	10	14	N	N	A disappointment.	The Angel of Darkness  finishes stronger than it started, but on the whole it was too long, too childish (I know it was supposed to be written from a child's perspective) and not really suspenseful.  Although the book is  supposed to be a suspense novel, it should not be confused with a mystery.   The killer is identified fairly early on, as are her motives.  Most of the  rest of the book is spent by the protagonists basically trying to prove  their theory to themselves.  In the process, they have numerous encounters  with just about everyone alive in the 1890's that we would still know about  today.  This device was interesting in The Alienist in part because it was  largely used with Theodore Roosevelt, who was a central and plausible  character.  Roosevelt makes a return in Angel  in, for what this book is,  an &quot;oh, come on&quot; cameo, as do several other  &quot;celebrities.&quot;  Though the book deals with grim and gruesome  matters, the impact of killings, drug abuse, child prostitution, and other  horrors is minimized by the child-like (childish) narration.  Though this  is deliberate, it doesn't work.  Most annoying is the book's length.  No  rule requires suspense novels to be long, but I can't think of any other  reason that this one drags on as it does.  Not only could it use to shed  about 150 pages, but there are points within the book that a reader can  actually skip ahead 150 pages and not be lost.  Overall, a disappointment.	1999-07-27
US	52446508	R3C84HAWF5S5RY	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Hannibal:  A Love Story?	Hannibal should have been called, Hannibal:  A Love Story.  In the end, all of the protagonists - Hannibal, Barney, and Margot end up happily ever after in loving romances.  Hannibal with Clarice, another protagonist and  most unpredictable character. Hannibal, Barney and Margot are all the  masculine aggressors.  This is most important with Hannibal, who somewhat  nakedly &quot;saves&quot; Clarice.  I remember the first two books to be  better, though this was entertaining and compelling.  This one was a bit  too cartoonish.  It was a bit to much of an adolescent fantasy.  One gets  the impression that Thomas Harris is hoping for a movie version in order to  see Jodi Foster naked.	1999-07-27
US	52446508	R1FXB85S9BO59I	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Suspense marred by propaganda	The Hunt for Red October  was OK, but not as good as I was expecting.  It was also very difficult for me to see beyond the right-wing propaganda.  The Americans were all John Wayne types, except for the liberal  congressional aide, who was, of course, a spy.  What turned him against his  country?  Protesting against the Kent State massacre!  (He was approached  by campus-dwelling KGB agents in the early 70's and fell prey to their  sneaky tactics).  That wasn't what the book was really about, but the  overtones were unmistakable.  The main American characters were all pretty  much the same person - god-loving, patriotic, cigarette-smoking,  liquor-drinking (except the one Mormon, which I think represents diversity  for conservatives), family men in the military (or formally in the  military), workin' hard for their country, getting ahead in life through  merit, not needing government help (although they were all working for the  government), classless and free (though they each bore military ranks and  lived in secrecy, aboard subs, etc.)  The Soviets were all either evil  plotters with the exact opposite characteristics, or dupes, or defectors  who were somehow being noble, almost patriotic in their treason.  Even the  way the Americans and Soviets spoke was different (though the book was  written entirely in English):  the Soviets spoke proper English in complete  sentences more or less devoid of slang.  The Americans spoke a lazy sort of  English, leaving words out of sentences, leaving letters off of words, and  employing slang and jargon at every opportunity.   It was a little much.   The story itself was somewhat suspenseful, but not very (marred, in part,  by the propaganda).  Few surprises. END	1999-07-27
