US	52458633	R5GNO51L3F5OP	0425197492	504316969	Goddess of Spring (Goddess Summoning, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Probably her best yet	I loved Goddess of The Sea, I picked it up on a whim. I loved Goddess of Spring even more.  I think I liked it because the main character seemed more real. Lina is a 43 year old baker, who has IRS problems and a love of animals. Demeter is a Goddess with an immature daughter. The plan? Have them swap bodies so Lina can bring joy to the Underworld, and Persephone can make Lina's Bakery flourish.  <br /> <br />One of the things I liked about this book was we got to see how Persephone felt in Lina's shoes. Sure, it was just a few glimpses, but you knew how things were going, instead of in Goddess of the Sea, where it's highly probably Undine was going to die. <br /> <br />Romance novels are my guilty pleasures, and Cast's don't disappoint. They're more than just romance novels, there's always magic and adventure and other things added in. However, they do follow a similar theme. Female modern woman, with an unhappy romantic past and little sexual experience, find herself switching places with a goddess or semi-diety in another world. She has to find a way to adapt, and woo the hero, who is always gorgeous, overcome the challenge set to her, and overcome the tragedy that befalls her before getting her happy ending. Sure, it's a bit formulaic, but Cast does make all her books different, it's not just \\"oh, we overcame tragedy, let's go be happy.\\" <br /> <br />I think this is my favorite of all her books, because of the beautiful descriptions of the Underworld, and how Lina makes a difference there. I also enjoyed how the book ended, it's a happy ending, but not in the way you'd expect.	2005-05-03
US	52458633	RVUUK9LFSL0GF	1930709323	380673421	Goddess By Mistake	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Not quite what I expected	After reading this book, Elphame's choice made a lot more sense. The book itself wasn't bad, but not quite what I'd expect. It's more of a fantasy novel than a romance novel, and Elphame's Choice, which is touted by my local bookstore as a fantasy novel, is more romantic. <br /> <br />One thing I disliked about this book is the way it's told. First person is great, but in this one I didn't think it worked. I also didn't like all the modern references, especially to pop culture. Sure, Shannon's retelling of the Highwayman is great, but I didn't really need to be reminded of the haunting voice of Loreena Mckennitt while I heard her tell stories. I also had problems with the idea that Shannon was always bathing, getting dressed, or drinking wine.  <br /> <br />I also think that ClanFintan accepted her way too quickly. Suddenly she admits she's not Rhiannon, and bang, he accepts her and takes her to bed. I just don't buy it, sorry. I also wonder how this ties into Elphame's Choice, you'd honestly think that Lochlan's mother would be mentioned, as kin to Rhiannon, and that it might have been passed down through family lore that Rhiannon was a woman from another dimension. <br /> <br />For a first novel, it's not bad. I think Cast could have done a lot more with the Vase transporting through time, or done away wit hall together after Shannon came through. After all, if this is a one way trip, why'd the vase come back?  I'm glad I read this after I read most of her other books, because I was disappointed, and probably wouldn't have picked up her other books if this is what I'd read first.	2005-05-03
US	52458633	R2DZR3JAEYZDRD	0373802137	852511342	Elphame's Choice (Luna)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good, but not as good as some of her others	I wished I'd read Goddess by Mistake when I read Elphame's choice. I enjoyed the novel, but it wasn't until I'd read Cast's first book that this one really made a lot more sense. The book stands alone just fine, but it's amplified by Goddess by Mistake.  <br /> <br />Despite being a fantasy novel, this really fits in with Casts' other romance novels. Like them all, there's plenty of other things to keep you interested, a twisting plot, some action, a good dose of magic, all the things that make a romance novel so much more than heaving bosoms and tragic love, and mundane things. <br /> <br />Anyone who's ever been an outcast can sympathize with Elphame. Born half-human, half-centaur, she's obviously touched by the goddess Epona, and revered by the people of her lands. But being touched by a goddess and revered does not equate out to acceptance or friendship, and that's what she desires. Undertaking the restoration of McCallen Castle, her ancestral home, is how Elphame hopes to find her place in the world. <br /> <br />The supporting cast is an interesting lot, there's Lochlan, a half demon soul mate for Elphame, her strong willed brother Cuchulainn, who has Feelings about what going to happen, and the scarred Healer Brenna, who plays a bigger part in the novel then you'd originally think. <br /> <br />The only part of the book I disliked was Elphame's Feeling about her brother's relationship. I find Cast often uses tragedy to cause diversions in her book, and this is no exception.  I really dislike killing off characters, and she killed one I really liked. <br /> <br />If you like PC Cast's boos, or like fantasy romance novels, this is a good choice to read. If you prefer your romance non paranormal, or your fantasy non romantic, then skip this one. I preferred Goddess of The Sea to this, but this is an enjoyable read.	2005-05-03
US	52458633	RZNFQ6EK133FA	0425201961	127532186	Goddess of Light (Goddess Summoning, Book 3)	Books	3	33	34	N	N	Not quite like the others	I just finished today, and while I enjoyed it, I don't think it's Casts best work. It ties into Goddess of Spring very well, which is pleasant, but it doesn't have the same feeling. <br /> <br />Pamela has freed herself of her clingy, control freak husband, and for the past 2 years  she's been a workaholic trying to clear out her own life. She takes an interior design job for a well known Science Fiction writer, only to be brought to Vegas to reproduce a tacky version of the Forum, in Caesar's Palace. At the same time Zeus open a portal from Mount Olympus to Las Vegas, to allow his fellow immortals and nymphs a chance to see what he modern world is like. This provides ample opportunity for Artemis to try and jump start her brother Apollo, who's been in a rotten mood ever since he was spurned by Persephone, who turned out to be a mortal woman. <br /> <br />Things go awry when nymphs provide an invocation in the Forum of Caesar's Palace, and Pamela compltetes it unknowingly. Finding herself involved Artemis encourages her brother to woo Pamela to rid Artemis of her burden. Apollo beings his romance thinking as a god, but as the novel progresses, he becomes more human, and more substantial. <br /> <br />This novel differs from the previous Goddess of series, Pamela never inherits the body of a goddess, and in a twist, Artemis and Apollo find themselves bound to the moral world, living as mortals. That's a refreshing change, but as the rest of the novel follows the standard pattern of Cast's books, I found myself longing for the standard body switch. <br /> <br />I did enjoy the rich storyline, author E D Faust, or Eddie, added a lot to the story. As did Artemis, although she often stole the story away from Apollo. Pamela is a little more fleshed out than some of the previous heroines, she seems more like a woman who's really been hurt in the past. Las Vegas provides a lot of interesting scenery to use, and is perfect for the 10 day period that this novel covers. <br /><br />However, for the things I did like, there are equal things I didn't like. Bacchus irritated me to no end. He's whiny in the beginning, his meddling causes a lot of problems, and even though the ending fits, I hate the fact the God of Wine caused the tragedy. Zeus's punishment to him was fitting, but I just hated the whole thing. Apollo to me seemed odd. In Goddess of Spring, he's a self absorbed, shallow immortal, who was interested in tryst instead of something more tangible. Letting himself be consumed by rejection over a mortal woman shouldn't have bothered him. In this novel he becomes more of a normal person, with more flaws and personality, which is great, but it's still not enough. Artemis steals the show partway through, once she becomes mortal, and Apollo's personality isn't enough to stop her from taking over. I also disliked the ending, it's a great way to end it, but I wanted the happily ever after to come without quite so much angsty tragedy.  <br /> <br />Overall, it's not a bad book, I liked it morethan Goddess by Mistake, and close to as much as Goddess of the Sea, but it's not as good as Goddess of Spring. I did like seeing Hades and Lina from the previous book though, and I like how the books are starting to intertwine. Not a bad book, and those who like her books will like this one as well.	2005-05-03
US	52458633	REKWRRT3Y35DT	0451459105	490528046	The Changeling Plague	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Was fine up to a point	I picked this book up on a whim, it had a recommendation by one of my favorite authors on it, so I figured I'd give it a shot. It wasn't a bad book, although it does go pretty weird at one point.<br /> In the future, genetic engineering for existing diseases is outlawed, thanks to one Dr. Mahn whose potential cure for a life threatening disease caused even worse problems in those not affected. Despite it being illegal, there are still doctors and scientists that will do genetic engineering, for a price. Geoffery is willing to pay that price to be rid of the cystic fibrosis that he's lived with all his life. He finds a doctor willing to make his cure, and it works. Within days he's much improved, but then strange things start happening.<br /> People who attend a dinner party he throws start coming down with rare genetic diseases, and from there it spreads. It's up to Lilith to find the person responsible for the disease, and find a cure or some kind of containment for it. This is the main plot of the book, and as it stands it would make a pretty good futuristic thriller in the vein of the Andromeda Strain. That's not the only plot in the book though.<br /> Another character, Idaho, was a child who showed immunity to Mahn's disease, back when he was a small child. However, his sister, Blue, was not so lucky, and died as a result. Idaho's never really gotten over her death, and still carries some pretty serious emotional baggage. He's also a computer whiz, and spends most of his time plugged into what the internet has become in the future. When he reads about the plague and discovers his quasi-girlfriend is affected by it, he sets up a small lab to find a cure for her.<br /> Along the way he discovers that by altering certain genes, he can make himself faster, stronger, and pretty much change himself however he wants. He starts experimenting, and eventually turns his girlfriend into a clone of Blue, and gives his friends all kinds of enhancements. As word gets out people are willing to do almost anything to get Idaho to perform his gene therapy.<br /> The two plots tie together when a vaccine is found for the plague. Idaho's friends help synthesize the vaccine in exchange for body modification, and the rest of the world gets a vaccine to help those not affected.<br /> The whole secondary plot about genetic modification was really strange, and started to twist the book. As the book goes on and the plague becomes secondary, it just gets kind of weird, and the last two chapters or so are really, really strange. It's like the author decided that it was okay to deviate from the story by fast forwarding 80 years.<br /> It's not a bad book, but it does go kind of strange, and unfortunately it's strange enough to affect my enjoyment. Hard core science fiction lovers will probably love this.	2004-04-05
US	52458633	RFPS9RCOJ1VY	0756401658	899122235	Men Writing Science Fiction As Women	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not a bad anthology	This novel appealed to me, partly because I wanted to see how men would write from a woman's position, but mostly because I was in the mood to read good science fiction short stories. As stories go they're not bad, although I did expect more.<br /> There's a wide variety of stories in this book. The first one opens up with a woman who's lover wants to have a child, but lacks a uterus due to an in-body espresso machine. On the other end of the spectrum you have  Phil, who's undergone a procedure to become Phillpa, and his mental state isn't that great. You have a story about Marie, the computer AI for a building, and how she came into being. There's a young girls coming of age kind of story mixed in with a archeological dig, and a fairy's first days as a living creature. <br />Several of the stories center around motherhood: a woman who finds herself pregnant obtains an illegal gene bomb to force a doctor into making her child smart, another is about a young woman who agrees to become a breeder for an alien race that came down and conquered humans. A third has a mother searching for the daughter that was taken from her 12 years before, and another deals with mind travel, where a woman's unborn child mind travels back in time to ensure they are concieved.<br />Overall there's a pretty wide variety of stories in this anthology, and there's bound to be something for everyone. Generally the female characters are pretty beleivable, with few exceptions you don't pause mid story and wonder who is writing the story. There are a few oddball stories that leave you wondering, or stories that seem to have parts of them rushed, as if the author became tired of the story and wanted to wrap it up as quickly as possible.<br />If you're a fan of science fiction and women characters, this is worth checking out. You're bound to find something you'll like in the 20 stories.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R2TJUE2KT99H3K	0743226232	702995428	How to Write a Dirty Story: Reading, Writing, and Publishing Erotica	Books	3	72	76	N	Y	Title is Misleading	I bought this on a whim, I wanted a book that would help me with any romantic scenes in my own writing, something that would help me keep them from seeming canned or forced. I figured a novel about writing erotica could help. This is really not what I expected, the title is misleading. It could have been Dirty Stories: Getting past the writer's block and getting published.<br /> A third of the book is devoted to what you do once you've written your erotic novel. That's great if you already have the novel written and you're ready to get it ready to sell. If you're looking for how to write that dirty story, or that romance scene, you're out of luck.<br /> Another third of the book is getting ready to write. You get the history of erotic novels in the United States, how to find the erotica you like, and reading it aloud to get a sense of it's style and power. It also details how do you deal with your family and friends reading something you're written that's sexually explicit, and what you can do about it. This stuff is helpful, but between it and the publishing guide you're really left with very little about how to write itself.<br /> Once into the actual writing bit, Bright's exercises are helpful, but limited. She sets up the exercises and outlines the goals they should accomplish, and where to get ideas, but aside from saying that stringing together a bunch of sex scenes does not automatically make a plot and a good piece of erotica, she's pretty vague.  She doesn't touch too much on characterization, and her chapter on mixing sex with other genres is disappointing as best. <br />The book focuses solely on erotica, and not even really writing it, but getting ready to do it, and then what to do once it's written. Her publishing section can be considered useful, she doesn't sugarcoat anything, including the amount of work writers have to do, and how no one gets rich overnight in the erotica business. However, it doesn't tie into how to write a dirty story, which is the title, and should be the bulk of the book.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R1L33C5OP48882	038081546X	586071894	The Warrior's Damsel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Nice setting, weak plot	Even though I'm not a huge fan of romance novels, I try to enjoy the few that I read. Most of them are mediocre, but even a mediocre novel has one or more parts you'll enjoy. Not so with this book, the bad parts way outweigh the good.<br /> This novel has the ability to be a great romance novel. Its well set in the time period it's in, the author has done her homework in that regard. And while the plot of falling for the enemy is cliché, it's always possible to put a spin on it.<br /> I think the plot was the biggest letdown. There's a point in the book where the heroine has a flash of insight, and says to the hero that a marriage between the two families would put an end to the feuding, which is what the hero was planning. At that point they could have devised a plan to run away and end the feuding. Instead, she plays dutiful daughter to a father who can't stand her, and then gets kidnapped twice.<br /> This book really feels like your typical canned romance novel, which is a disappointment. Her heroine has spunk, and the hero has drive, but some of the more interesting minor characters get lost in the shuffle, and are instead replaced with a father that hates his daughter for some unknown reason, and his right hand servant, who harbors lustful thoughts and a bad temper. Even when the father's reason for hating his daughter is explained it still leaves you wondering.<br /> I tried to give this novel a chance, but I really felt it was lacking in the things that would make it a really good novel.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	RLI5GJA9N6BXI	0060508205	156011115	Traci Lords: Underneath It All	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Now what I had expected	I'd heard the name Traci Lords many times in the past, but I didn't know anything about her other than she'd been an underage porn queen. When I saw her auto-biography on a bookstore shelf I figured it was time to read more about her.<br /> As a biography it's and interesting read.  She doesn't leave much out, it details how she got into nude modeling at 15 and later starred in porn films, and why. She doesn't sugar coat anything, including an expensive drug addition and her first few porn films. <br /> She details her life during the FBI case, and after, and how she'd been worked to gain recognition as a legitimate film actress. She spends numerous chapters discussing the set of Cry-Baby, one of the first big films she made after all the publicity. <br /> As a biography it's interesting, as the story of a girl who went into nude modeling and porn as a means of escape it's fascinating. If you've ever wondered what possessed her to turn to porn films, this is a must read.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R22OL2UXBPQGSX	0805069933	887080954	The Joy of Writing Sex: A Guide for Fiction Writers	Books	4	51	52	N	Y	A much better guide to writing sex than others	This was recommended in place of Susie Bright's How to Write a Dirty Story, and I have to say compared to it, this is a much better book. It focuses on sex, and the wide variety that's out there.<br /> One thing that I really enjoyed is that the author doesn't ignore important topics: AIDs, Adultry, incest, and many other things. She doesn't treat any subject as taboo, nor does she approach them with embarrassment. They are simply topics she discusses.<br /> I was pleased to see that she touches on all types of sex: first times, married sex, adultery, recreational, etc etc. She brings up points that anyone writing a sex scene needs to think about, and reminds you that sometimes the sex isn't the main purpose of the scene, and that it doesn't have to be graphic to get the point across.<br /> I found this book to be much more helpful than others. Instead of telling people how to prepare, it uses examples to show Benedict's points, and picks those examples apart so the reader can understand exactly why such things are necessary.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R3DA1MOKN9ZX65	0425192792	736567087	Goddess of the Sea (Goddess Summoning, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A different mermaid and romance novel	I'm not much on romance novels, but I am a sucker for mermaid novels. This one caught my eye with the cover.  The cover was great, but the story inside didn't disappoint.<br /> Unlike many romance novels, this one doesn't seem too clichéd or contrived. It also has a fresh, interesting plot, unlike anything I'd read before. And for being a romance novel this is remarkably un-romance like.<br /> The presence of a strong female heroine is good, and while she fits some of the stereotypes of a romance novel heroine, she's also quick thinking, adaptive, and open minded. CC might have the short coming of looking like most of the military's kid sister, but she makes up for it while in Undine's body by outwitting a grumpy abbot and a sweet but dated knight.<br /> The merman Dylan is most interesting. Like many heroes, he has to overcome overwhelming odds, including being the son of a human and a water nymph, which is much like being the knight in a medieval novel or the poor farm boy in a modern novel. He overcomes some pretty great odds to be with CC, and while he's only in a small portion of the book, he's strong in his own right.<br /> The secondary characters of the goddess Gaea, Lir, the sea God, and Isabel, the serving woman of the monastery are all well thought out characters with minds and voices of their own. Isabel especially shines out, being far more understanding and open minded than one would expect.<br /> I'd never read one of Cast's book before this, so I can't compare this book to the others, like many have done. I can say as a first time reader of her books I was impressed by the story she wove, and enjoyed it immensely.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R31SSK0C8EV998	1400030927	548424525	Jennifer Government	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not bad, although a little odd	I was clued into this game from a website called NationStates, which is run by the author of Jennifer Government. The website allows you to run your own country, and it peaked my interest in this book. The book itself isn't related to the website, but it's still and interesting read.<br /> In the future the United States seems to be everywhere, large corporations run everything, and employees take the last name of the company they work for, taxes are illegal, and corporations run the schools. It's a really odd place, although everyone seems right at home.  When Nike hires one of it's peons (Hack)to create a furor over their new shoes by killing some kids, a whole cast of characters is assembled. You have Hack Nike, the peon for Nike; Violet, his unemployed computer whiz girlfriend; Buy Mitsui a stockbroker; Billy NRA, a private gun for hire, and Jennifer Government, an agent with a barcode tattoo under her eye. Everything falls apart after Hack completes his contract, and it's up to all the characters to play their parts until everything can fall back into place.<br />Overall the novel is interesting, although I found a hard time suspending my belief at some points. The world Barry creates is pretty unusual, and even with the map on the back of the book I had some trouble following along with what companies were good and what ones weren't. <br />I think the book kind of flies past some of the more important parts, and drags in others. Also, given its length there's a lot of characters thrown into the book, and sometimes you have trouble with who did what and where and what are they going to do. It's a catch 22 though, had he decreased the characters the story would have been completely different, and if he's developed them all more the story would have drug on for too long.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R1S9HE0X7B3PA0	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not your average vampire novel	I know Hamilton?s books have become one of the more staple vampire novels, but compared to so many out there they have a fresher, more unusual take. Guilty Pleasures, the first novel in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series, is no exception.<br /> Despite its short length (compared to Hamilton?s other novels), there?s a lot packed into the book. It sets up the character of Anita Blake, a short, no nonsense animator. She raises zombies for a living. She just so happens to also be the Executioner, a legal vampire killer. She thinks of vampires as monsters, and vows not to get caught up with them, although through this book (and the following ones) that changes.<br /> While I avoid horror novels, this really doesn?t qualify as one. Sure, there?s blood and gore, and she doesn?t hide it, but it?s not overly so. The plot overshadows the horror aspect so you don?t get hung up on it.<br /> The character of Anita Blake is more than just interesting. She knows interesting people, she?s done things that have left scars, she has a gift that?s unusual, and she has flaws and weaknesses. Instead of being the uber powerful, perfect vampire slayer, she?s short, not that strong, and bears scars from times she should have been killed. She feels real, like a real person you could meet and talk to.<br /> The vampires in the novel are interesting as well, but in this book they?re barely discussed. Jean-Claude shows himself as a formidable force, but aside from him and Nikolaos, the villain of the book, the rest of the vampires are only briefly mentioned.<br /> If you enjoy vampire novels and don?t mind blood and gore, this is a series worth checking out.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R2QYJ3507ZWG1X	0743226232	702995428	How to Write a Dirty Story: Reading, Writing, and Publishing Erotica	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Title is Misleading	I bought this on a whim, I wanted a book that would help me with any romantic scenes in my own writing, something that would help me keep them from seeming canned or forced. I figured a novel about writing erotica could help. This is really not what I expected, the title is misleading. It could have been Dirty Stories: Getting past the writer's block and getting published.<br /> A third of the book is devoted to what you do once you've written your erotic novel. That's great if you already have the novel written and you're ready to get it ready to sell. If you're looking for how to write that dirty story, or that romance scene, you're out of luck.<br /> Another third of the book is getting ready to write. You get the history of erotic novels in the United States, how to find the erotica you like, and reading it aloud to get a sense of it's style and power. It also details how do you deal with your family and friends reading something you're written that's sexually explicit, and what you can do about it. This stuff is helpful, but between it and the publishing guide you're really left with very little about how to write itself.<br /> Once into the actual writing bit, Bright's exercises are helpful, but limited. She sets up the exercises and outlines the goals they should accomplish, and where to get ideas, but aside from saying that stringing together a bunch of sex scenes does not automatically make a plot and a good piece of erotica, she's pretty vague.  She doesn't touch too much on characterization, and her chapter on mixing sex with other genres is disappointing as best. <br />The book focuses solely on erotica, and not even really writing it, but getting ready to do it, and then what to do once it's written. Her publishing section can be considered useful, she doesn't sugarcoat anything, including the amount of work writers have to do, and how no one gets rich overnight in the erotica business. However, it doesn't tie into how to write a dirty story, which is the title, and should be the bulk of the book.	2004-04-04
US	52458633	R3XWAZ66Q778X	1930076037	503402795	Kyros' Secret	Books	2	5	5	N	Y	Kyros Doesn�t Have Much of a Secret	I originally purchased this book because the idea behind it intrigued me. I was crazy about Greek mythology as a child. I figured a romance involving greek gods, would be interesting. I was sorely disappointed. There were a number of issues with the book that bothered me.<br />From the start I had problems. In the first few chapters Ares sets up his petty revenge, Thera is impregnated, and Kyros' secret is revealed. The only thing remaining is getting Thera to figure out his secret, which she doesn't even try to do. She spends more time being upset he's gone.<br />One of my most serious problems is the whole one dimensional god idea. Ares is petty and vengeful, and the primary reason he sets up his little scheme is because he's angry Thera killed his raven and Hades wouldn't bring it back from the dead. He eventually says he needs war to keep him going, but for 80% of the book you're led to beleive his sole driving force is his raven's death at the hands of Thera. Sure, I'd be unhappy if my child killed a beloved pet, but this goes way beyond that.<br />The other gods and goddesses are petty as well. Aphrodite ignores Thera, who is the plainer daughter, and dotes on her sister Hermonia. Hades is grumpy and petty, and refuses a trade in the Underworld until Persephone steps in. Aside from Thera, she's the most interesting of the dieties.<br />The clichés also bothered me. Thera is a plain girl, her sister is gorgeous. Aphrodite is beautiful, as is Ares. Kyros is gorgeous, his centaur form is wild and mysterious to Thera. Kyros' brother is pure evil, and will stop at nothing to break his brother's spirit and end his life. Kyros and Thera must take a risk to be together, and that means the potential for the ultimate sacrifice. I know that writing relies on clichés to a point, but when they're used in excess it's hard to take the story seriously. <br />I tried to like this, I really did. But it was so far removed from what I enjoy that I found it very difficult. If you're reading just to read, and clichés and underdeveloped side characters don't bother you, then this isn't a bad read. But it's not for me.	2004-03-21
US	52458633	R3UEDZ6K3KSNF8	0440213460	228026047	The Silver Kiss	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's held up over time	I remember reading this book as a kid, when it first came out. I enjoyed it then, and was pleasantly surprised when my fiancé's sister loaned to me with a whole slew of other young adult novels.<br />One of the things I liked then and now is that the characters have depth to them. Zoe has to deal with her mother dying of cancer and her father not being around much. Simon has Christopher to deal with, as well as being a vampire. Lorraine is moving to Oregon, and has troubles talking about Zoe's mom. All the characters have problems, and it gives them more depth. You don't have the tortured teen, her sidekick best friend, and the lonely vampire.<br />One thing that did trouble me is despite Simon's age, he seemed immature. Instead of your normal, more knowledgeable vampire, he still seemed like a lost child. You'd think after 300 years he'd have some polish, and that a pretty, lost-looking girl wouldn't unmake him so quickly.<br />Christopher was a bit troublesome as well. I guess 300 years of looking like you're 6 will take its toll, but he still seemed like a child. I knew he used that to get his prey, but it seems like it was too hard for him to shake when he would encounter Simon.<br />After 14 years this book didn't hold me as well as it did when I was 10, but it's still an enjoyable read, and worth perusing if you enjoy vampire novels.	2004-03-07
US	52458633	R3IUWJND1BWZVW	0385730713	460925244	Hawksong: The Kiesha'ra: Volume One (The Keisha'ra)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Departure from her usual vampire fare	In intentionally left this for last in the pile of Atwater-Rhodes books Id been loaned. Id been told this wasnt a vampire novel, so I wanted to save it until I was done with all the vampire novels Id been loaned. After reading it I think this is Atwater-Rhodes best novel yet. It really shows shes grown as a writer.<br />I like that the setting for this novel isnt in modern times. Im not quite sure of the time frame of it, but its set without intervention from the mortals. Its nice to see Atwater-Rhodes expand her world to include a different time and place.<br />The characters in this book are the best developed yet, and they have personalities that show through in events. Some of them are a little thin, with less personality than I would have liked. Others are shown differently than they end up, I suppose to add a little misdirection.<br />Unlike her previous books the plot is this one isnt as obvious. You know from the first chapter that things have to change, and Danica is the one whos going to have to do it. However, how to change things isnt immediately obvious, and even after the solution is presented, there are still problems.<br />One thing I didnt like about this book was that there were a few things that werent explained. Theres an assassin problem and you have a pretty good idea who is behind it before you get to the end.  Youre given some motive for this assassin early on, but at the same time she apologizes before the whole event happens, and Danica isnt sharp enough to catch it. Personally if I had been Danica I would have confronted Zane about some things Id overheard, and then kept an eye on the woman causing trouble. I also wonder whos trying harder. It seems like Zane is doing everything he can to make Danica comfortable, but Danica doesnt return the favor.<br />I wish had been longer, the book stops with them admitting they love each other. The assassin issue isnt resolved, and there are some loose ends that werent tied up. Overall though, this is a much more finished novel than the first two, and Im hoping the next few will be even better.	2004-03-05
US	52458633	R3SRED01XMSPZF	0380731800	701049138	Sky Coyote (A Novel of the Company, Book 2)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Not Bad, but not great either	After finishing In The Garden of Iden I bought this book, hoping for more of Mendoza and Joseph and The Company. While I got more, it wasn't quite what I have expected. It did explain Theobromos to me; it turns out it's chocolate.<br />I liked the idea of a novel based around Joseph, because he's been around so long it's interesting to hear him mention his previous assignments. You get to read bits and pieces of his memories of assignments, but really not enough to get the whole feel of what all he's done. And while he's a kick to read, the rest of the novel isn't as fun.<br />My biggest complaint is the way Baker made the Chumash. They speak like modern day people, and it's very, very confusing. In The Garden of Iden the people speak differently from the immortals, and the discussions are marked that way. Here, the Chumash and Joseph (posing as Sky Coyote) speak the same. It's really kind of a letdown. I like that Baker fleshed out the Chumash by giving them a commercial aspect to focus on, but at the same time, it made them feel pretty one dimensional. And the whole center scene about them throwing a festival and Joseph and the other immortals watching it just seemed out of place. It wasn't funny, and it didn't really fit.<br />I did like meeting some of the people from the 24th or 25th century, it gave me more of a feel of what it's like in that future, but it seemed like the mortals were popping in at all the wrong times, disrupting the story with stuff that wasn't as interesting.<br />Overall it's not a bad book, but I feel a little let down after reading it. It stands alone too well I think.	2004-03-05
US	52458633	R1NBYP9IM5X8LO	0613292650	328763020	In the Garden of Iden	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good, but slow paced	I picked this book up after standing in the bookstore and reading the first few pages. The introduction about immortality and time travel caught my eye, so I bought it and brought it home.<br />Baker does a decent job of covering the information you need to dive into the story. She gives us background about The Company, she details how Mendoza goes through surgeries to become an operative, and she even sets up Mendoza's rescue from the hands of the Spanish Inquisition as a small child. There are some things she doesn't cover very well, like Theobromos and why the operatives are trained using mostly movies.<br />The novel isn't a fast paced book, but you don't really expect it to me. It takes place in a small garden in Kent, where the most exciting things are the changes in Iden himself, and the romance between Mendoza and Nicholas. I was laughing out loud when Joseph misjudged a time release drug that caused Iden to act like a man possessed. <br />The characters of the book are reasonably well rounded, I would say Joseph is the least fleshed out of the main characters. We know all about Mendoza, and through her relationship with Nicholas we learn much about him and his problems. I can only guess that Joseph doesn't get much billing because the second of this series is about him, and Baker wanted to establish Mendoza and her hang-ups before moving on.	2004-03-05
US	52458633	RF4B3MGCWWJ2G	0440229405	444877361	Shattered Mirror (Den of Shadows)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	My favorite of the ones I've read	Of the three Atwater-Rhodes novels I've read, this is my favorite. I think it has the most real feeling characters, although the heroine is a bit soft hearted.<br />In past books, Atwater-Rhodes tells the story from a vampire perspective, or a vampire sympathizer. In this novel the tables are turned, and it's told from the point of view of a vampire hunter, a member of the Vida line for hunters. Sarah isn't as good a hunter as her mom or sister, but she's determined to find her place in the Vida line by killing Nikolas, a vampire that killed one of her line centuries ago, and still causes, carving his name into his victims and making them fiercly loyal to him.<br />Sarah is attending school like any normal kid, and she meets a brother and sister pair, Nissa and Christopher. They're both vampires, and as it turns out, hundreds of years old. Christopher is taken with her, and leaves her poems and drawing, and in a relatively short period of time Sarah falls for him. <br />Later she finds out that Christopher's twin brother is Nikolas, the vampire she wants to destroy so badly. While hunting him down she risks her friendship with Nissa and Christopher, as well as her standing in her line. Her mother is furious she'd make friendships with the `leeches.' <br />The novel continues in the same vein, introducing another brother and sister pair, this time normal, which gives Sarah a chance to strengthen her resolve that Nikolas is a monster. Later she finds out things about Christopher that she wishes she hadn't, which puts her in a more precarious position.<br />I admit I didn't quite expect the ending, and I'm disappointed by it. Not only does Sarah meet the same fate as Jessica from Demon in my View, but Nikolas' vow to take care of a problematic vampire doesn't seem to happen. You're left wondering where everyone's going to go from the ending.<br />The blurb about the story is a little misleading. Christopher isn't a benign vampire, and nowhere does he boast about only living off the blood of animals and willing victims. Sarah notices from the start that he doesn't seem to feed of humans, but the issue of who or what he feeds off of doesn't come up until much later in the book. When it does come up, it's a big deal too, so I think that part of the blurb is misleading.	2004-03-02
US	52458633	RWWY5SNKTYA1O	0440226686	357613801	Blood and Chocolate	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of the Better Young Adult Werewolf Novels out there	I've always been a big fan of vampire and werewolf books. So, when my fiancé's sister handed me a stack of her favorites, I dug into this. Blood and Chocolate was the most recent one I've read.<br />Usually I'm not big on werewolves, and I seldom read young adult novels anymore, but I really enjoyed this one. It had the right mix of supernatural and real, teenage problems that made me feel like I could relate. I'm not werewolf, but I do remember problems with friends and boyfriends and parents from that age.<br />It was nice to read a book about a teenager that fully accepted who she was. Vivian loves being a lope-garou and she loves running around in wolf form, feeling the air in her fur. What she doesn't love is the disarray her pack is in while they try and recuperate from a tragic fire the year previous that claimed the life of Vivian's father, who also headed the pack. She doesn't care for Gabriel, the target of her mother's current interest, and the most likely male to lead the pack.<br />When Vivian meets up with Aiden, a dreamer and poet whose free spirit seems to attract unusual friends and parental disapproval, she feels as if she's met her soul mate. Despite the packs disapproval, she dates him, and later reveals her true self to him. This causes disaster as Aiden can't accept her for who she is. <br />As the romance between Vivian and Aiden is the driving force behind the book, I was a little disgruntled when it took an unexpected turn midway through. Aiden goes from loving Vivian totally and being open-minded to being terrified of her and wanting to free her from her curse. One incident is all it took, and I think it kind of soured the rest of the book for me. I understand it's the driving force behind the second half of the book, but the switch from \\"I love you, let's be together always\\" to \\"You're a monster! Get away\\" seemed really out of character.<br />Overall I think this is a well written book, especially for the genre and age group. Most teens that enjoy vampire novels or supernatural books will probably like this. Actually, anyone who enjoys supernatural themed novels would most likely enjoy this.	2004-03-02
US	52458633	RPX8F9GAC9MJ7	0440228166	129534442	In the Forests of the Night (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not a bad first novel, but still lacking something	When I was handed this novel and told that it was written when the author was 13, I didn't believe it. Even after reading it, I have a hard time believing the first draft was written when she was 13. For her age the book is phenomenal.<br />The story is well woven, and switches pretty well between the past, when Risika was the human Rachel, and the present, which revolves around and unsettled feud with the fellow vampire Audbrey.<br />My biggest complaints are the plot and the ending. If you removed the flashbacks the plot is very, very basic. After visiting her favorite caged tiger, Risika stops in a town to feed for the night and steps on the toes of Aubrey, her enemy. This creates a domino effect, setting loose a chain of events that leads to a showdown with Aubrey. In a way you can see the plot coming, and you have a pretty good idea of how the final fight will work out. This ties into the ending, there's a surprise that you may or may not be expecting, but once it's revealed, Atwater-Rhodes doesn't explore it. Risika gets up and goes about her life.<br />As a first novel it's a promising start. I think if she wrote a follow up to it, detailing what happens to the characters it would help tie in the novel better.	2004-03-02
US	52458633	R1PEJ7P0BKH0SS	038532720X	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not a bad second novel, but could be better	I did and didn't care for this novel.  I had been loaned it by my fiance's sister, who has read all of Atwater-Rhodes' books and loved them. I'm not much for young adult fiction, but I'll read just about anything put in front of me.<br />One thing I did enjoy was that it did pick up on one of the characters of her first novel, the vampire Aubrey, and it expanded him a little more. You get a better view of the all vampire town, and what makes it tick. However, that was really my favorite part of the book. <br />I didn't mind the plot itself, I find it better than her debut novel, but it's still not quite up to par. When I read the first few pages I actually groaned, it sounded like a self-insertion story, much like the ones you commonly see in Fan Fiction. However, after a couple chapters I realized it wasn't.<br />Jessica is a lonely, sullen, high school senior who just happens to be a published author. Her first novel Tyger, Tyger is a story about a 300 year old vampire and her fight with another vampire she believes killed her brother. Sound familiar? When she starts her last year of high school she encounters a boy who could be a dead ringer for Aubrey, the male main character of her novel.<br />It turns out it is indeed Aubrey, and he's come to her high school to check out the writer that's single handedly revealing all the vampire secrets to the world. If she's a threat, he's supposed to get rid of her, to prevent her from revealing anymore secrets. On the other end of the spectrum is a girl named Caryn, who comes from a long line of witches devoted to keeping the vampires from taking over.<br />Once pieces of the plot fall into place, you figure out why Jessica knows so much about the vampires. That's kind of a disappointment too, it reminds me of a very poor vampire novel I read last fall. There's a side plot about a girl born to a former vampire, much like this one.<br />While this one has more detail than the first book, I think it's my least favorite of the three I've read. It's a good start, but I think more story could have made this better.	2004-03-02
US	52458633	RADBIGCPZGPG6	0553289993	982376629	The Wizard of Seattle	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Cute but Stereotypical	I took the book on a camping trip because I figured it was thick enough to keep me occupied for a day, but still light enough that I could enjoy it. It didn't disappoint, it's an easy read that's enjoyable,  but you end up wading through many stereotypes and clichés in the book.<br />The heroine, Serena, is a red-headed, green-eyed, fiery orphan that found her way across the US at the age of 16 and ends up on the doorstep of a powerful master wizard, aptly named Richard Merlin. Against his better judgment (and Wizard law), he takes her in and teaches her, claiming she is his niece. They keep up this guise for years, until Serena slips up around a journalist who then uses his national column to raise questions about Merlin. This attracts the notice of the council of wizards, who tell him to remove her powers or they'll do it for him since teaching a female the wizard's arts is forbidden. Merlin returns to Seattle and tries to find out why female wizards are forbidden. He finds out the answer lies in Atlantis, and he and Serena embark on a journey there to try and reverse history to save her.<br />The plot has a few twists, like the issues Atlantis (called Atlantia) faces with the power struggle between witches. most of the book is pretty straightforward though. The clichés and stereotypes don't really grate on you, and for a romance and sci-fi novel, this does pretty well. I only give it three stars because the stereotypes really stood out to me, the red heads with fiery tempers, love that one or both people don't realize, extremely powerful people taking in urchins off the street, tying Atlantis in with magic users, and journalists being the ones to raise issues. Many sci-fi and romance novels are driven by one or more of these clichés, but when you gather so many together in one book they tend to really stand out.	2002-08-24
US	52458633	R1VZFKD19FFPT5	1890916501	747281749	Belly Laughs: Adventures with Celebrities and Other Unusual Characters	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Belly Laughs isn't exactly what I'd call it	I'm disappointed in this book, I picked it up at a belly dance workshop, and figured it would be full of laughs.  It's not exactly a book of funny stories, some of them are just plain weird, not funny, or didn't have anything to do with belly dancing.<br />One of the things that disappointed me most about the book is the story telling style. Long states at the beginning that he's not trying to embellish the stories or take them over, but we constantly get little bits of Long-ese (definitions of words he uses), and somehow I don't think all these belly dancers used Long-ese a lot. It's like he's constantly trying to remind us who's writing the book. He also crams the table of contents onto two pages in small type, but has no problems putting a definition of Long-ese on the page in large type, and then devoting the entire next page to a definition of 'buckwheat.'<br />A lot of the stories weren't funny, or didn't have a whole lot to do with belly dancing. The last story of the book is a narrative about one belly dancer's obsession with The Artist Formerly Known as Prince. There isn't any mention of belly dance in it, other than the person who was obsessed with him saw his wife dancing. Another one deals with one belly dancer's husband accidentally eating 'funny' brownies and then driving 10 miles an hour down the road. <br />The book isn't a total waste though, there are a few funny and interesting stories, one about a python that farted feathers, another about how a belly dancing cousin warmed up a somber wedding, and another about a mishap a dancer had when she danced with Omar Sharif. Other than that, there's not a whole lot of really good stories. If you're really interested in sorting through the bad to find the good, then order the book. If not, try to pick one up used or see if the library has a copy.	2001-06-16
US	52458633	R1JYD0R8ETOOTX	0670910236	243779508	Priestess of Avalon (Avalon, Book 4)	Books	4	51	53	N	Y	Priestess of Avalon is more than just a priestess	The title of the book is a bit misleading, Elian, or Helena as she's know for most of the book, isn't just a priestess of Avalon sent out into the world to do the work of the goddess. In fact, the book deals mostly with her life outside of Avalon, first as the wife/concubine of Constantius, and later as the mother/empress of Constantine.<br />The book is carried out in the same style as the other Avalon books, although I can detect a bit of Paxton's writing as well.  All in all, it's not a bad book, if you take it from the view that it doesn't center around Avalon, but on a priestess who makes a life for herself after losing the blessing of Avalon.  If you're looking for another novel about Avalon, King Arthur, or the Forest House, you're out of luck. In fact, the book fits into the time line around the time of the high priestess Dierna and Teleri's marriage to a man not of Avalon in Lady of Avalon.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to people who aren't familiar with at least Mists of Avalon, unless they have plans to read it.  It's not the same type of book as Mists, it's more like The Forest House, which struck me as a totally different kind of book than mists, a historical romance instead of a retelling of a legend.  All in all though it's not a bad book, and if you've read the other three books, you should probably read this one as well.	2001-06-16
US	52458633	R3KA905ATOSZJK	0451458311	595416745	Out of Avalon: An Anthology of Old Magic & New Myths	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A Wide Range of Good Fiction	I never know what to expect from an anthology, sometimes you hit a bunch of good stories, and sometimes you hit a bunch of bad ones.  In this case, there's a bunch of good stories.<br />All the stories are short enough you can read them in under an hour even if you're a slow reader, and they're all concise, nothing drags on for pages about unimportant things.  Also, the stories all have a central theme that while it bends around king Arthur and Avalon, it also has it's own distinct theme.<br />From a story about a southern girl trying to attract Lancelot's attention, to a story about a girl that was part fey, part something else, there's a little bit of everything in the book. Even if all the stories don't interest you, there should be enough that you would like to justify purchasing the book.	2001-05-29
US	52458633	R30TSYY0HQ378	0804108447	618824478	Druids	Books	3	12	22	N	Y	Not as great as I thought it would be	I found Druids to be a bit of a disappointment.  It's been a little over a week since I finished it, and very little of the book has stayed with me.  When I read it, I couldn't put it down, but that was mostly because I wanted to get through it and see if there was anything more interesting at the end. There wasn't, at least for me.<br />The plot isn't bad, but it's not very deep. Young boy is raised to become a druid by grumpy older druid after showing he has the ability to bring the dead back to life, shows great power in a few things, less power in acquiring his current love interest, who happens to be a female druid. She snubs him, he learns more, and then he's sent off to study in other holy groves. As he's leaving, a band of female prisoners come in, and one decides she wants boy/druid. He leaves, meets up with friend he hasn't seen in a while, bard, and picks up an older dancer/slave while touring the area the Romans conquered. Comes back to his grove, becomes leader of the grove becuase grumpy druid was killer, and watches the Celts wage a huge battle against Julius Caesar, which they lose. Goes into the forest with a host of woman, and lives there.<br />I'm pretty disappointed in this book, it gets three stars for not being terrible, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, unless you can check it out from the library.	2001-05-24
US	52458633	RXEX51ATJDFXJ	0314200398	786161129	Learning C++: A Hands-On Approach	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Get it the first time because he won't tell you again	My college uses this book to teach object oriented programming, so I've been elbow deep in it quite a few times.  It's not bad, but it's very concise.<br />It's not a bad book, but Nagler only tells you something once, and if you don't understand it, you're out of luck.  And usually, what you miss is something you need to understand the rest of the chapter.  Also, it seems like a lot of important subjects aren't covered in depth, and some subjects are covered more than they really need to be. <br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn c++ unless they're already familiar with the language.  If they weren't familiar, I'd suggest adding another book as a reference, since the index in this one isn't that great, and some of the most important parts of the book are only a paragraph or two long.	2001-05-09
US	52458633	R133XO9OFFF0R	0137800088	488619076	The 8051 Microcontroller (3rd Edition)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Small, but packed with information	It might be under 400 pages, but this book has a lot of information in it.  It's basically one concise data book about the 8051, with questions at the end of each chapter that make it useful as a textbook.   It also has several useful appendices, including a listing of the assembly commands and an appendix that shows the binary for each command, as well as the number of machine cycles it takes to execute.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who's not familiar with assembly and the architecture of a processor, because the book assumes you know assembly language in one form or another, and it doesn't spend a lot of time on the architecture of the 8051.	2001-05-09
US	52458633	RM77M97PSRYXO	0762409746	684996462	The Mini Bonsai Kit (Miniature Editions)	Books	3	46	56	N	N	Mini Bonzai was a bit of a disappointment	The Mini Bonsai kit caught my eye at a local bookstore because I've always wanted a bonsai, but I'm very good at killing plants. I figured I'd pick this one up and take a look at it. While it's rather neat, it's still a bit of a disappointment. My first complaint is with the box, it says it contains everything needed to grow a bonsai garden.  The kit contains everything needed to grow a bonsai tree, but not a garden. Small difference, but still somewhat puzzling.<br />I'm having the same problem with this book that I'm having with the mini Zen Gardening Kit.  When you open it fairly flat, you can see where it has been sewn, which make me worry that I'm going to destroy the book by reading it.  The instructions for getting your bonsai tree started are very clear and are explained pretty well. It takes eight days to get the bonsai up and going, but at least you're told that in the first 2 instructions.  The book also goes through caring for a bonsai, and the science and art behind it. <br />The rest of the kit is pretty straightforward and decent.  More than one jack pine seed is included, so you're not out of luck if one doesn't sprout.  The pot is some kind of non-plastic, non-metal pot, standing about an inch tall and about 2 inches across.  There's a peat pellet included so you don't have to go buy soil or dig up your neighbour's yard, and there is a set of miniature scissors included as well. The scissors are little plastic cheap scissors, but they cut paper, so they will probably work in pruning a bonsai.	2001-03-25
US	52458633	R3FDGU2YB641QO	0762408286	917048464	The Mini Zen Gardening Kit (Miniature Editions)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A little bit of Zen	The mini Zen gardening kit it really a cute little kit. I've always wanted a Zen garden, but I'd never seriously considered getting one until I saw this one. The kit, with it's little box, a wooden rake, rocks, sand, and a small book is a lot more than I was expecting.<br /> The Zen Garden included with the book is cute, and more functional that I thought it would be.  While the garden is 2.5 inches by 3 inches, there's a surprising amount of sand included, which gives you a pretty full garden, and if you have cats like I do, you have enough sand to still be able to rake around the rocks after they've knocked a lot of it out.  The rocks are dark and shiny, and actual rocks, not some kind of plastic blob molded to look like a rock, and the little rake is a miniature of the wooden rakes I've seen in larger Zen gardens.<br /> The little book included in the kit is cute, and contains quite a bit of information on Zen gardens.  There are a few pages of Chinese lettering included as separators between the chapters, and the lettering is a nice change from the pages of black text on white paper. I am a bit disappointed in the book though, when I finally opened it wide enough to comfortable, I could see the thread they used to bind the book. This concerns me a bit, I don't want to wreck the book by simply reading it.	2001-03-25
US	52458633	R282HWH3P7KJXG	0812545419	197126237	The Last Dragonlord	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An interesting twist on dragons	I found The Last Dragonlord to be an interesting take on dragons.  For a first book, Bertin does a farily good job of developing an idea into a full blown book.<br />The Last Dragonlord is long, which is good and bad.  It took me a bit longer than usual to get through it, which was nice; it's not a 3-hour read like many books. However, it does drag through the 500 pages, with the plot developing slowly.  The story could have been written in half the number of pages.<br />The book is pretty good if you're looking for a book that has dragons and magic, but it's going to tax your brain immensely. There are some predictable portions, but the book is a good read if you just let your brain relax.	2001-03-14
US	52458633	R1SP3ZTBAHALEQ	0595130666	155148094	Heir to Govandhara	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Fascinating book	When Heir to Govandhara arrived, I couldn't put it down.  I put off housework, college, and other things until I finished it.  The storyline of the book, and the characters blend well together, and create a world that has depth and life.<br />The characters have dimension to them, from the intended queen Sri to her nurse Jabala, to the grand priest Ajan. The only character that seemed somewhat one-dimensional was Maraci, but that could also be because all he wanted was to keep Sri happy, be a powerful king people would revere, and throw many grand parties. <br />The plot of the book is simple, but offers many hidden parts and side trips that aren't expected.  Sri is the intended queen that will fulfill the third miracle, which would occur 1000 moons after Varuna walked the earth, when a boy would be born with all the powers of the sea god.  Sri is expected to find this boy who would be king, and finds him in the most unlikely of people, her twin brother. The marriage of these twins brings peace and harmony to Govandhara, although not everyone is satisfied with the marriage.<br />Heir to Govandhara is a well-written book that creates a world full of characters that really shine through. For a first novel this is a really excellent one, and I'm hoping Ramasastry writes another one.	2001-03-14
US	52458633	R9XEQ27MABU16	0380977044	394648186	Ahmed and the Oblivion Machines: A Fable	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A really unusual Fable	I picked up this book because I'm a fan of Ray Bradbury, and it was one of the featured books around Christmastime. It's a short book, which is nice, Bradbury gives the fable without a lot of excess writing. <br />There is something about the book that really drew me in while I was reading it. Maybe it was the wonderful black and while drawings that are scattered through the book, illustration various scenes. Maybe it was just the story itself, the story of a young boy who learns to think and feel with his heart and mind, and learns to fly with the help of a most unusual god. Whatever the reason the book drew me in, it was a valid one.  The book is a good one, with an important moral, provided you take the time to sit down and read it.	2001-03-13
US	52458633	R1O66CQA030DIG	0002252104	686761898	Grains (Gourmet Pantry)	Books	4	24	24	N	Y	A pleasant surprise from what I had been expecting	When I ordered this book, I wasn't quite sure what to expect.  Since it was a bargain book, I didn't expect a whole lot, but I'm always looking for a new cookbook. I was pleasantly surprised when it arrived.<br />The book isn't thick, which is kind of nice. There are 8 recipe sections, soups, salads, main dishes, side dishes, breads and cereals; and desserts, as well as an introduction, a glossary of grain types, an index, and a conversion table. The glossary of grain types is very nice, it include colour pictures of the grains, as well as a short description of each. <br />There are 40 recipes in the book, and I counter at least 25 colour photos of the dishes, and most of these photos take up at least half a page, if not more. The dishes all look fantastic, and even those without pictures have names that sound wonderful, such as chedder cheese grits with green onions and garlic, or spicy corn-meal covered catfish with cilantro salsa.<br />The recipes all seem fairly straightforward, and don't seem to involve a lot of complicated work or unusual ingredients.  Every receipt centers around some kind of grain that is simple. You're not going to need to go to the exotic foods store to pick up most of these grains, just go to the local store and pick up your oatmeal, cornmeal, rye, or other grain. The author mentions a few of these grains can be found at a health food store, so there is a chance you'd be able to find them in the organic foods section of a large supermarket.	2001-03-13
US	52458633	R3PTMPWPFNHWJO	0062515500	862384361	Goddess in My Pocket: Simple Spells, Charms, Potions, and Chants to Get You Everything You Want	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Not a bad small spell book	Even though I've always been the type to write my own spells, I found this book to be quite interesting.  It has several small, simple spells that seem worthwhile to try. The idea of trying to keep a copy machine, or any  other piece of modern day equipment happy and running seems like a rather  practicalspell to me.<br />I would recommend this book to people who are  looking for practical, simple ways to do spellcasting. This isn't a book  for newbies, but it's not a book that requires you have 20 years of  spell  casting under your belt.	1999-06-30
US	52458633	R2CNMOVZYOUBE6	1567184243	250179370	To Stir a Magick Cauldron: A Witch's Guide to Casting and Conjuring (RavenWolf To Series)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A good attition to any pagan library	The Stir picks up where to Ride... left off.  A good book to add to any pagan collection, I found it a nice way to go from To Ride and consider my study of Ravenwolf's books.<br />In this book it begin to become apparent that  Ravenwolf is beginning to study under the Gardnerian tradition (I believe  she was initiated during the writing of this book). It shows a bit more  formality and strucute than To Stir, but still contains interesting ideas  and facts.<br />This book is a good one to go from To Ride... but as with any  pagan books, I would suggest reading other books by other authors before  deciding which author you like best, and whose words you wish to study by.	1999-06-29
US	52458633	R2QSS3NE70WAKE	1567187250	686127041	Teen Witch: Wicca for a New Generation	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Ravenwolf dumbs it down for Teens	This is probably the worst of Ravenwolf's books to date.  Ravenwolf dumbs down the Pagan religion, Wiccans, and the Craft in this all emcompassing, chock full of spells, &quot;book&quot;, if you could call it  that.<br />Ravenwolf takes the basic ideas of the pagan faith,  the fairly  important historical documents, and places them into &quot;teen  speak.&quot; Picture Clueless mets Charmed.<br />Ravenwolf also packs the book  full of spells wiht cute names like &quot;bakc off, baby.&quot; Spells in a  book coming fro man author who stressed, in other books, the importance of  writing your own rituals and figuring out your own spells.<br />Theo nly good  thing I found about &quot;Teen Witch&quot; was the letter to parents.  the  letter to parents was well written, and manages to describe what the book  and being a witch are about, without scaring people.	1999-06-29
US	52458633	R3N5NW0PY7T8MN	1567187218	868146715	To Light A Sacred Flame: Practical Witchcraft for the Millennium (RavenWolf To Series)	Books	1	10	15	N	Y	what happened ot Mama Silver?	This book was the biggest disappoint ot me out of the To... series.  Some of Ravenwolf's  first words are &quot;I am a lineaged witch.&quot;  What happened to the Ravenwolf that found a religion that worked for her, and  wanted to share it with everyone? Or the woman who said that with  dedication and a willingness to study, anyone could achieve what she  had?<br />Her initiation into the Gardnerian Tradition is obvious in this  book, as her  stressing the importance of formal and informal rituals,  palnetary hours, and the five fold kiss.  In To Stir and To ride she  doesn't stress the importance of formality.<br />All in all, this was a sad  book in the To... series. She might have some good information, but it's  not presented in the way she originally did. It seems like she is the all  knowledgable person, and we are lucky to get scraps of information from  her.	1999-06-29
US	52458633	R2HWF2T964JZ4Y	1567187234	397899952	HexCraft: Dutch Country Magick (Llewellyn's Practical Magick Series)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	good book for those who are interested in HexCraft	For people who are interested in reading about the Dutch Country Magick, this isnt' a bad book. Ravenwolf packs it with quite a bit of information,and shows many of the charms  used by the Pow Wow Artists.  It  also shows her struggle in trying to write the book, as well as other  things. Definitly a decent read if interested in Pow Wow, or desitring ot  read more of Ravenwolf's books.	1999-06-29
