US	52454948	R1IGOMIKWUPY2W	0060519134	490902723	Savannah Blues: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful . . .	This book was a great drink of water for me.  I was sucked in by the atmosphere of Savannah, the antebellum culture, the insider knowledge of the South that only a true Southerner knows, the way the characters have such color and texture you find yourself nodding your head in agreement at something they said or just laughing your head off.  The names . . .  ooohh, those rich Southern names . . .  hysterical.  The obsession with classifying things (family, furniture, etc.) \\"pre-war\\" or \\"post-war\\" (as in, pre-CIVIL-war). . .  priceless.  The shady characters whose greatest sins are making antique reproductions and selling them as authentic.  Ooohhh.  <br />Trust me, you'll just drink this up in one gulp.	2003-07-07
US	52454948	R3L7OHUBY3IVF4	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	3	18	29	N	N	Personal, First Hand Account of Clinton	I will say up front that I am not a Clinton fan.  Never was.  So this book definitely fed the part of my me that intensely dislikes the Clintons.  However, I tried to read this book objectively.  I tried to read between the lines and find the nuances.  Overall, I conclude that the book is best when it is retelling first hand information.  Mr. Patterson obviously had a view of the White House few people ever get.  He should have included more first-hand facts, things that he saw that could shed light on the administration.  I'm sure that there were many more eyewitness events that could have been included in this book.<br />The book is weakest when the author tries to explain policy or when he makes the leap from fact to blanket conclusions.  I make no judgment about Mr. Patterson's qualifications as an analyst.  However, I think that he doesn't always make his case. For example, calling Clinton racist because he wouldn't return Jesse Jackson's phone calls seems like too much of a leap.  Maybe Clinton just didn't like Jackson.  Or maybe Clinton just didn't want to be caught up in Jackson's own scandals which, if I remember correctly, erupted right around the same time as Clinton's.  These parts of the book are weak.  Another example is where the author talks about Clinton's policy of increasing the role of women in the military.  Mr. Patterson makes a few blanket statements about how the military was resisting these efforts, but does little to really explain the reasons. <br />Ultimately, I was not surprised by the Clintons' shenanigans.  I agree with the author that Bill Clinton never respected the Office of the President of the United States.  So it doesn't come as a surprise to me that he would &quot;misplace&quot; the nuclear codes.  It doesn't surprise me either that Clinton would cut military spending.  After all, he clearly and directly disavowed the US military in his youth.  As Commander in Chief, he just didn't have the credibility to fill those shoes.  Italso doesn't surprise me that Bill Clinton was a &quot;serial liar&quot; about things big and small (from golf scores to military facts to details about his relationship with Lewinsky -- all fertile ground for Clinton's lies and double-talk).<br />There was one final part of the book that Mr. Patterson could have expanded upon.  He talks a little bit about the frustration of the military under Clinton, how they felt unappreciated and abandoned by the administration, how they felt overextended in their international commitments, how they felt Clinton never really had a plan when it came to military engagements.  These were VERY VERY important points that Mr. Patterson could have dealt with on a grander scale.  He just barely skims the surface, though.<br />Because of the allegations in the book, I think reviews will fall along party lines, or along the lines of &quot;Do You Like or Dislike Clinton?&quot;  If you liked Clinton, you'll probably hate this book.  If you disliked Clinton (okay, I didn't dislike Clinton, I hated him), then this book will satisfy some of your craving for Clinton-bashing.  <br />What I think is unfortunate and just childish is that some people are using this book as an excuse to bash Bush, who is not even mentioned in the book.  One obviously enraged liberal states in his review of THIS book that &quot;Bush Is Worse.&quot;  Really, did you read the book?  Is that even an appropriate reponse?  Sounds like something kids say in the playground.	2003-04-23
US	52454948	RNQB34JO19R22	0895261391	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	5	117	165	N	N	Interesting . . .	Thank you Ms. Charen for putting in print what I have just now begun to understand about the left.  They are, quite simply, hypocrits.  One day, they disavow the \\"Cold War\\" as simply a figment of US paranoia and a lie perpetuated by the US to justify its frenetic arms build-up.  The very next day (or next decade), once there is no USSR, these same people claim victory over the \\"evil\\" Soviet empire.  Talk about rewriting history.  <br />These are the same people who treat Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro as \\"mad geniuses\\" yet they have the audacity to SCREAM about poverty and civil rights in the US.  Huh?   One of the more disturbing stories in the book (disturbing only because of its timeliness) is John Kerry's amazing \\"flip flop.\\"  Here's a guy I thought actually had a brain and a heart.  Now, I'm not so sure.  John Kerry was a decorated Vietnam Vet who came back from that war and joined the anti-war movement.  He even threw his medals away in a defiant gesture against the war.  That's all well and good -- I have no problem with someone who learns from a personal experience and changes his mind.  What I find objectionable, and what Ms. Charon takes great pains to point out, is that no sooner had the anti-war movement in this country subsided than Mr. Kerry was now, suddenly, a great war hero exuding pride about his military and (alas!) with all his medals intact.  So, he's anti-war when the country is predominantly anti-war, but he's \\"pro-miliary\\" when patriotism is in vogue?  Pretty disgusting.<br />Like another enlightened reviewer, I am awaiting the sequel.	2003-04-10
US	52454948	R9967RSFA4CWA	1586481924	335865504	Boy Genius: Karl Rove, the Brains Behind the Remarkable Political Triumph of George W. Bush	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Interesting, but more about George Bush than Karl Rove . . .	I expected a more insightful, more personal exploration of a genius political consultant -- Karl Rove -- what makes him tick, what motivates his Machiavelli-like agenda, what personal inconsistencies belie his political agenda etc.  What I got was more of a \\"complaint\\" against the Republicans in general and \\"W\\" in particular.  The authors seem to be writing from the point of view of sore losers who want to diminish the validity of the Republicans' political victories in Texas and on the national stage by painting Rove as an amoral Machiavelli/Svengali who has maninpulated an entire party (and country) to fit to his whims.  As gossip, it's pretty good -- a lot of juicy tidbits and \\"could be true\\" explanations.  As a study of a political genius, the authors don't really get at the heart of Karl Rove.  Yes, he's brilliant.  Yes, he's \\"The Man With The Plan\\" for the Republican party.  Yes, he's sitting pretty right now.  But that's all presupposed.  We could get that from a New York Times article.  The authors don't give us more than that -- nothing to explain or demystify the man behind the mystery.  There are very few attempts at a more in-depth analysis.  For example, the authors' mention briefly Rove's lack of religious inclination.  It is a fascinating point considering Bush's moral compass.  Yet, the authors don't really go anywhere with this information.  It's left there to dangle in the wind.<br />Too bad, Rove is such an interesting subject.  Maybe someone else will pick up where this book left off . . . .	2003-03-23
US	52454948	R2PLRCE1P96IA4	0446679178	271209878	Kleopatra	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous Retelling of History . . .	I read this in one sitting and I find myself back on Amazon.com buying the next volume.  This book was both entertaining and illuminating.  As history, it doesn't \\"preach\\" about documented events, it doesn't over analyze the significance or importance of these events -- they just happen to the story of Kleopatra.  This makes the story seem more of a novel, as opposed to simply a retelling of history.  As fiction, the story is magnificantly told.  The author draws the reader in from the very beginning, weaving a complex web that only gets deeper and deeper.  I am looking forward to the second volume!  (And third? Fourth?)	2003-02-08
US	52454948	RSANZRQQ6VSGF	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Excellent . . .	This is one of those books you wish you'd written.  Reading through, I found myself nodding and nodding and nodding at what I was reading.  That hardly ever happens with political reads these days!<br />Mr. Hannity does a good job of capturing the \\"normalcy\\" of the conservative movement.  It isn't about fanaticism (unless you count patriotism as fanaticism) nor is it about making the rich richer and the poor poorer or anything so trite and inane.  It's about maintaining the integrity of this country, something that is quietly and quickly becoming extinct.  <br />I applaud Mr. Hannity on his efforts.	2002-08-26
US	52454948	RCTVXU1BAFDOZ	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Impressive . . .	An essential overview of US foreign policy in the 1990s.  Halberstam has crafted a well written, well researched account of the international policies and conflicts that shaped the 90s.  He also deconstructs many of the major players -- Tony Lake, Dick Holbrooke, Colin Powell, Madeline Albright, Sandy Berger -- in great detail, exploring their particular leanings and, most importantly, the events that shaped their individual policies.  For this group, shadows of the Cold War and of Vietnam are never far from the surface of their foreign policy.  <br />I agree with reviewers who thought that the author has a liberal bias -- Halberstam tends to view the Clinton administration and the Democratic liberals as kinder, gentler, \\"aw-shucks\\" foreign policy doves, i.e. the kind of people who just \\"happen\\" to get caught up in nasty little international conflicts.  Meanwhile, Republicans are portrayed as significantly more trouble-friendly and hawkish, to use a much-bandied-about phrase.  Still, despite Halberstam's leanings, he does not hide the Clinton administration's obvious failings in the foreign policy arena.  He is quite brutal at times in his descriptions of Clinton as a petulant man-child who doesn't like to be wrong and, more importantly, doesn't like anyone else to be right either.  <br />The one flaw with this book, if it is a flaw, is simply that it was written before September 11.  As such, it has a dated quality to it, like when you read about WWII or Vietnam.  The world dynamic was significantly altered by 9/11 and it will be interesting to see if Halberstam picks up where he left off and writes the post-9/11 chapters of this book.  <br />Overall, though, a must read.	2002-08-09
US	52454948	R25R26X5Z1NP2M	0758201087	789394878	The Price Of Pleasure	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Sexy, But . . . .	Erika Holland is New York's most notorious madam.  She caters to the very, very rich and makes quite a killing ($$$) doing it.  Her girls (and boys -- after all, sex is an equal opportunity experience!) are all devoted to her.  She's got a great guy who loves her who just happens to be the one who got her started in the business (but he's a regular joe, a partner in some international investment firm who is not even a customer!).  She's surrounded by people who think being a madam or a prostitute is just like being a lawyer or a doctor.  Basically, she's the world's nicest, most stable person who just happens to run an upscale brothel.  <br />One night, coming home from a \\"date\\", Erika is involved in a car accident and, as she lies comatose in a New York hospital surrounded by her friends and employees, we learn how she came to be a madam.  She was once, in her former life, a wife and mother.  Her husband (Rick) was a cookie-cutter investment-type who we know only through Erika's clouded eyes.  After Rick runs off to Switzerland with his gold-digging assistant, Sandy, Erika is left with no money, mounting debts, and a teenage daughter who hates her.  Rick's coup de grace is focing Erika to choose between having Rick pay for her daughter's education (only in France) or losing all child support if Erika brings Rena back to the States.  Erika becomes an escort as a way to make money and finds that she likes the sex and likes the companionship.  Eventually, she takes over the whole business from Valerie, who is getting married to a former customer.  <br />While Erika is in a coma, her grown up (and very resentful) daughter, Rena, comes back to New York to find that her mother is a madam.  Understandably, she is furious, but in just a few short days (basically, in the time it takes her mother to come out of her coma) she comes around to accepting her mother and her friends.  It helps that she has a night of hot steamy sex with Alex, one of Courtsans, Inc.'s hunky male prostitutes.<br />The problem I had with this book isn't about the sex or about the author's attitude towards sex (which is empowering and progressive), it's simply that these people seem way too normal to be real.  There are two married prostitutes in the book (one is Valerie, the former madam of Courtesans, Inc.) whose husbands know about the work and accept it, one woman with a committed relationship (Erika), and one woman who is courting or is being courted by a doctor (who also knows what she does for a living).  In the real world, people aren't so accepting of prostitutes.  It may be an \\"ideal\\" world the author is painting, but it certainly makes the story lack depth.  No one sturggles with a conscience.  No one passes judgment (which is fine, excpet it's unrealistic).  It's just too perky and perfect.	2002-08-01
US	52454948	RUVF91RA598MT	0060084405	111079086	Bread Alone: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sweet But Imperfect Debut	With a little more polish, this could have been a great debut novel.  Having said that, I fell for the author's lyrical tone as well her sense of texture.  I swear I could smell the bread in the book!  Wyn is the most developed character, with lots of nuance and subtely, yet you almost want the author to do something MORE with her (or something less, in the case of the tortuous relationship with her soon-to-be ex.).  She's about 8/10ths of the to being a full, vibrant main character, but she doesn't really make it there.  The secondary characters suffer the same flaws -- just a little too shallow, but full of potential.  For some reason, only the character of Mac had any resonance for me (and even he is drawn a bit thin and cliched).  And then there were the really tangential characters that just clogged the book without any adding real flavor (like Linda and Richard and the Encino police guy whose name I already forgot).  It's not that they all had to add something, but the author spends a considerable amount of time giving them life and then she just hangs them out to dry.<br />So, why the four stars?  Like I said, the author had me hooked on the bread.  You literally get a whiff of freshly-baked bread as you read through the book.  You also hear Mac's music running in the background.  The prose also flows nicely, almost to some hidden music you are straining to hear.  Overall, it's a sweet book with a ton of potential.	2002-07-17
US	52454948	RU8B1Y3TK46N5	0743226844	390205289	Mama Gena's School of Womanly Arts: Using the Power of Pleasure to Have Your Way with the World	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Oh yeah.  I'm a Goddess!	Funny things started to happen after I read this book -- I stopped subconsiously criticizing myself in the mirror, I stopped caring whether that Death by Chocolate dessert was going to kill me, and, more importantly, I stopped feeling sorry for myself.  Imagine that!  Now, I basically do what I want, when I want, how I want and without any residual guilt.  <br />This book is Oprah/Dr. Phil with a definite edge.  Let's just say that if Mae West were still around, she'd probably write the introduction.<br />Enjoy and Indulge!	2002-06-30
US	52454948	RH0OHS1XZI0IA	0878331832	655001819	Spellcasters: Witches and Witchcraft in History, Folklore, and Popular Culture	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, Basic Text on Witches and Witchcraft	Great primer for the unenlightened.  I purchased this book after taking a fascinating tour of Salem, Mass. and I think that it has been a perfect complement to the information I learned in Salem.  Good, detailed accounts of the Inquisition (i.e., the Great European Witch Hunt) and the Salem Witch Trials.  Excellent listing of historic and modern-day witches, wiccans, neo-pagans, etc.  Non-judgmental insofar as the book balances its criticism of witch-hunters with the amount of credence it places on so-called &quot;witch powers.&quot;  Surpisingly well-researched and authoritative (on the historical background section) given the airy, unencumbered prose.  You forget that you're reading a compilation of excellent research.  The only flaw I could find is that the author insists on spelling out the plots of some &quot;popular culture&quot; pieces (like Harry Potter, Charmed, Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Rosemary's Baby, etc.) like a schoolmarm would read a story to her pupils.  A bit uninspired in the end, but otherwise an interesting read.	2002-06-01
US	52454948	R2OXT3QZAQ3O68	0743217799	627638079	Persian Mirrors: The Elusive Face of Iran	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow -- One of the best non-fiction books I've read all year!	I was fascinated from page one.  Ms. Sciolino's writing is superb (as it should be, given her obvious talents as a NY Times reporter).  She spins quite a lovely, insightful yarn about a place she discovered almost by accident.  Her personal thoughts of Iran aside, I found her analysis of the people and political climate of the country to be astute and very well reasoned.  This is a woman who knows her subject.  Kudos for producing such a mesmerizing and well-researched work.	2001-11-07
US	52454948	RTLJMXLHIRTLR	0345384466	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flawed . . . Yet, I Couldn't Put It Down	I finally got around to reading this book that I've had on my shelf since it came out!  It was absorbing and mesmerizing and quite a good read for a snowy weekend.  But, I was disappointed by the ending and by the fact that many issues were simply . . . abandoned, I would say.  <br />Still, her prose is beautiful and makes you wish this book were absolutely perfect.  Her many characters were well drawn and individual--suprising, given the number of female witches there are in this book.  It seems a daunting task, but I think Ms. Rice caught every character's &quot;essence&quot; and made them stand out.<br />Overall, a good read.	2001-03-06
US	52454948	R2PX9WM3FIQOD8	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Engaging Read	The problem with this book wasn't the book at all, but the reader.  I have never read any book in Rice's Vampire Chronicles (I confess that I never saw the movie either.  I understand that, as a result, I should be put out to pasture, but be gentle.).  This put me at a huge disadvantage when reading through this otherwise luminous book.  It is a very good read, not exactly Shakespeare, but very entrancing and enchanting.  Unfortunately, it is not successful as a stand-alone book.  Too much depended on insider knowledge of the Mayfairs and Lestat and Louis and Claudia.  The plot could stand alone, but the characters needed that &quot;extra layer&quot; to be more complex.  I'm sure that had I been familiar with these characters before, I would have identified their complexity.  Merrick was certainly intriguing--I wish the story had been told from her point of view, not David Talbot's.  I found him melodramatic and stiff all at once.<br />I do agree with other reviewers, though, Ms. Rice is an excellent storyteller.  She reels you in until you are dying for more on these characters.  She's fantastic.	2000-11-27
US	52454948	R3IZQW1NR8OYP9	0375756450	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fact, Fiction or What Exactly?	I almost gave up after the first fifty pages when I realized that I knew more about Edmund Morris than about Ronald Reagan at that point.  Inserting himself into the narrative was clever--had it been a work of fiction, it would have been interesting to see this device extended to its fullest capacity.  But, ultimately, cleverness isn't what generally works in a BIOGRAPHY.  It takes away from the subject and makes the reader wonder how much is fact and how much is simply imagination and creativity.  It does not guarantee veracity, or even credibility.  <br />Understanding Morris' difficulty in grasping Reagan, I do give him credit for admitting this weakness--a historian and biographer can only do so much, even with unprecedented access to his subject.  I do think that, in a way, granting Morris (or anyone) such access probably worked to Reagan's advantage in the end since it gave Reagan the ability to manipulate the entire process. Reagan was an enigma while in office and that will be his personal legacy.	2000-11-13
US	52454948	RAVLB4QGN7U7B	068486813X	602046440	The Breach : Inside the Impeachment and Trial of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	5	21	28	N	N	A Piece of History	Baker does an exceptional job of chronicling one of the most explosive scandals in Presidential history.  His account is thorough and reasoned, and his prose flows like a good novel.<br />For all of us who followed the story on the evening news, it's interesting to see the real story behind the headlines, especially how slyly the Democrats orchestrated the entire impeachment process in their favor.  In fact, I was astounded to read how the Republicans tried, more or less in earnest, to resolve the matter in a non-partisan fashion while the Democrats did everything in their power to polarize the issue and then play themselves as the victims of partisan politics--&quot;win by losing&quot;, as Gephart aptly put it.  Interesting indeed . . . Also of note is Baker's observations on President Clinton, how he was unable to admit he did anything wrong, how his own party, Cabinet and closest aides believed he deliberately lied under oath, how difficult it was for those who stood up for him to admit they had been had . . .  Fascinating!<br />Overall, a very well-documented, even-handed book by Baker.  Well worth the read.	2000-10-16
US	52454948	R2TSO4SMJ6M9EH	0321013492	915529319	Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis (2nd Edition)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Still One Of The Best Books On The Cuban Missle Crisis	I first read this book in my International Politics class in college  almost ten years ago.  It fascinated me then and it fascinates me now to  read through Allison's three models.  He peels away the layers of behavior  and motivation with each model and, in doing so, he exposes the strengths  and weaknesses of everyone involved--from Kennedy to Castro to Khrushchev.   And every time, you learn something new, some important fact or angle that  turns everything just a little on its head.  Required reading for anyone  interested in the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Also an excellent primer on the  intricacies of decision-making.  Still a very good read.	2000-09-07
US	52454948	R3OQHLLAJNSHXH	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Decadent &amp; Naughty	I bought this book out of curiosity, and on the recommendation of a friend  who said that I had too much integrity to do what I do for a living.  The  first time I read it, I thought it was a good, juicy read, but it seemed  difficult to put these rules to good use without acutally raising an army,  invading other countries, or beheading and poisoning opponents. <br />The  second time I read the book, I realized how wrong I was.  Maybe I can't  poison a coworker or an opponent as a way to get ahead, but I can  definitely learn how to control and manipulate my behavior to get what I  want out of other people, and out of any situation.  People tend to think  that if they just work hard and play nice, rewards will be heaped upon  them.  Not so.  You have to be an active participant in your success, not  just a passive passenger along for the ride.  That's the basic premise of  the book and it's a good one.  Even if there's too much Machiavelli here  (which there is, but that's the point), most of these rules are adaptable  to real life.  The fact is, most people already play by them, so isn't it  better to at know what you're dealing with?<br />I'll be reading this one a  few more times.  If not, my integrity is all my children will be left with  when I die.  That's not much to take to the bank.	2000-09-06
US	52454948	R2T3HOOPQ1RJIH	0446608653	287482638	The Alibi	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Zzzzzz	Not sure what all the fuss is about.  Rich, bad man getsmurdered.  Everyone is a suspect, everyone has a past.  Plot twist, plot twist.  True love, and some form of police work, prevail. Murderer Apprehended!  News at 11 . . . <br />Hated Hammond, hated Alex--both deadly boring people who jump in the sack and call it a relationship.  And this is before they exchange names.  (In what universe does this stuff occur?  Please tell me: I too would like to have several degrees before I'm thirty, thin thighs, perfect sense of style and morals, ...  all in the span of a week.  Wow.  No time for real work in that world.)  Good notes: Davee--she's a blast; and Rory--uptight, with a hidden inner life.  Too bad nothing went anywhere--they were definitely more interesting than the snoozer main characters.<br />Has anyone else noticed how people in this book (and similar books)end up being ultra-successful before most real people can actually be out of graduate school?  With all these potential Doogie Howers flying around, it's a wonder no one figured out who the murderer was before page 500 or so.  I did--somewhere in the first 50 pages.  Maybe that's what made the rest of the book so boring.<br />Skip it.  Save the trees.	2000-08-21
US	52454948	R2YNJMMV57LTN4	014028088X	336784816	The Salon.com Reader's Guide to Contemporary Authors	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Interesting . . .	Opinionated--Yes.  Irreverent--Somewhat.  Eclectic--Definitely.<br />Some  choices I just don't understand (Mario Puzo?  John Grisham? Bret Easton  Ellis?  Tom Clancy? Jacqueline Susann? These people are  &quot;Fascinating&quot;?  Um, No.)  <br />But, a lot of excellent, even  brilliant, authors are included that would otherwise be overlooked:   Sherman Alexie (&quot;The Lone Ranger...&quot; stories are just brilliant),  Paul Auster (&quot;City of Glass&quot;), TC Boyle (&quot;Collected  Stories&quot;), Raymond Carver (ANYTHING by Carver), VS Naipul (&quot;A  House for Mr. Biswas&quot;--stunning), David Foster Wallace (&quot;Infinite  Jest&quot;--you'll never look at a book the same way again!), and my  personal favorite--Lydia Davis (&quot;Break It Down&quot;--A MUST  READ/ditto &quot;The End of the Story&quot;).  The usual OWM (old white  men) deservedly get mentioned:  Roth, Irving, Bellow, Mailer, Wolfe, Vidal.   Even if you don't like them, their work has certainly shaped American  writing.<br />Overall, an interesting selection of contemporary authors.   Could have been a little more comprehensive on each entry, but still fairly  thorough.  Interesting trivia throughout.	2000-08-20
US	52454948	R2W2NY8GTRMWW2	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good, As Usual, But . . .	. . . I get the feeling that she used this book to set up plot elements for future books.  That made the &quot;Werewolf&quot; plot disjointed--it  was introduced well, faded in the middle, then just burst towards a  conclusion at the end, making it incomplete and somewhat ungratifying.  A  lot of unanswered points remained.  However, I think Ms. Cornwell did a  spectacular job chronicling Kay's grief and her unresolved feelings over  Benton's death.  (And I really, really hope she goes with the younger man  thing!)  She's also throwing Marino off the deep end, which started to  grate on my nerves even though I usually enjoy his surly personality.   Actually, everyone seemed to be headed off the deep end in this one:  Kay's  grief and grieving is making her a workaholic, and Lucy's anger over too  many things to count is turning her into a raving lunatic with a gun  (ditto, Marino).  A bit much, I think, but overall, a good read--I like  these characters and Cornwell can always keep you engrossed, even with this  not-up-to-par effort.	2000-08-17
US	52454948	R21N9R03YJC665	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Masterpiece	Quite simply, the best American novel of the 20th Century.<br />Fitzgerald was a genuis and this is his masterpiece, his gift to American literature.  &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; is an awesome yet deceptively simple story  that explores the frustrations and passions of an entire generation through  the words, deeds, and thoughts of a few complex characters.  There is so  much just below the surface of this book, you can easily read through it  and miss the depth.  But it is there, to be discovered under Nick's  watchful gaze.  You have Gatsby's fabricated fabulousness, a persona he's  created with his own self-serving mythology.  But there is so much he  hides, so much he wills Nick to discover.<br />You have Daisy's flightiness  and selfishness also hiding her true self because that's how it is for  women in her world--fake, flighty, frothy, lacking in substance.  She knows  the rules and she plays by them.  Jordan, Nick and others--their truth is  more obvious to us (i.e., Jordan is a cheat).  But everything is tragic  here, it is a fasade built on Eliot's famed &quot;wasteland.&quot;<br />I  can't stres this enough--this is a book that must be read, reread, and  analyzed countless times in order to understand what an extraordinary  achievement it is.  It is poetry.	2000-08-17
US	52454948	R34RQJL1GOVY1S	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Riot!	Highly entertaining--I read this one in one gulp.  What Frank Abagnale, aka Frank Williams, Frank Adams (etc.) managed to pull off in a short time  was nothing short of amazing.  Forgery, counterfeiting, impersonating a  pilot, doctor AND lawyer, and even a bank heist, thrown in for good  measure.  I swear that while I was reading the book, I could have been  easily convinced to quit my legal job and run a few scams.  It isn't so  much the lifestyle that draws you in--expensive clothes, money lying  around--it's that you really want to be that clever.  The money was always  incidental to him; he would get his thrills by outsmarting people.  You get  vicarious thrills reading about it.<br />The book does have its sobering  moments, such as his description of serving time in a French jail.  Another  negative:  his incredible arrogance, especially in his dealings with, and  depictions of, women--it was overkill to keep referring to his  (over-)active libido and reminding us that he had women in every port that  he used without thought to their feelings.  My impression was that he was  (or is) unrepentent about using them, as if he thought they were complicit  in his deception by their ignorance.<br />Nonetheless, a hilarious,  fast-paced, morally ambiguous tale that will leave you rooting for a  not-so-bad guy and wondering:  Could I really do that?	2000-08-10
US	52454948	RX8UPJC3178KX	0670891568	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Disappointing	I liked Fiona Range, the character, from the very beginning.  She's having a melt-down; she's on the brink of discovering who she really is, who she wants to be, and where she came from; she's unapologetic, funny, brash;  she's a genuinely good person who doesn't always do the &quot;good&quot;  thing.  Fiona--the promise of the character--is very human, very  accessible.  But the execution of her self-discovery is not only  disappointing, but lame.  Instead of working on her from the inside,  sorting her out piece by piece, the author makes Fiona's self-discovery  seem like a tv-movie-of-the-week plot:  Bad girl (who is really a good girl  deep down) wants to change, can't seem to make it happen, blames all her  bad luck on everyone else until Good boy (who can be bad because, after  all, he cheats on his fiance) tells her he loves her (I actually missed the  part where she felt anything for him but pity) and eventually  &quot;saves&quot; her from herself (at least that's what we assume).   Frankly, Fiona only ends up with him because he ends up with her.  Not very  interesting.  <br />There are some interesting characters in the book that  also had potential--Elizabeth, Fiona's cousin, whose physical and emotional  deterioration because she can't make decisions was purposely frustrating to  read; Patrick, a Vietnam vet Fiona befriends and steadfastly defends; and  the diner characters--but in the end, they're just as hollow as Fiona.   <br />Overall, not her best work.	2000-06-12
US	52454948	R1LV8ASEOFEEOW	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Humorous and Touching	Wonderful book--smart, funny, sad, touching.  Mr. Eggars is a very talented writer, probably the best new writer I've read this year.  On a literary level, this book is refreshing and innovative.  Depending on where  you stand, it either takes itself too seriously (and even then, in a  wonderfully humorous manner) or doesn't take itself seriously enough.  I  think it does both with great success [note to author:  you have restored  my faith in run-on sentences!]  There is no denying that Mr. Eggars' prose  jumps off the page at you and makes you laugh or cry, sometimes both at  once.  He is irreverent where society dictates he should be morose and  penitent, such as when he describes his mother's illnes, or in his musings  about his mother's ashes.  But underneath his audacity lies real sentiment,  real emotion.  This is a guy who could have just run away or could have  just gone crazy, given everything that happened to him.  Instead, he took  whatever came his way and moved on.  He is not without his ego and  delusions of grandeur, but it all contributes to a very truthful account of  reality, a reality where there are no saints, only flawed people trying to  make it work.	2000-05-25
US	52454948	RTJJ1XB4V7EXY	0767904621	763554556	Play Like a Man, Win Like a Woman: What Men Know About Success that Women Need to Learn	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Read These Rules--Then Strive To Change Them	&quot;Say it ain't so!&quot; -- That's the thought that most often crossed my mind while I was reading this book.  At times, I hated that she was right--that these were the rules you had to follow to really be a  successful business woman.  But, the truth is, the world for women business  leaders is just as she describes it.  Women ARE socialized differently.   Women DO have different reactions to situation than men.  Women DO view  business goals and transactions differently.  And, yes, women ARE held to a  different standard than men.  It is unfortunate, even stupid, but  true.<br />How to read this book:  Women should read this book to understand  the playing field, to recognize potential minefields, and to answer  questions like &quot;why can't I wear a really short skirt to the Board  Meeting?  They already know I'm smart!&quot;  <br />Then, we should make it a  point to change the rules.  That's what getting the power is all about.	2000-05-19
US	52454948	R1M7CEQG8E39GW	0385472978	911804737	Next Year in Cuba	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Honest and Very Funny	That we Cubans and Cuban-Americans can find humor in any situation--even the most tragic and overwhelming--is a testament to our strength.  This book is a poignant, funny, and sometimes sad tale of one man's struggle to  find his identity.  It is a very personal self-examination, but one that  most of us (all us &quot;hyphenated&quot; people) can relate to.  Are you  Cuban?  Are you American?  Are you &quot;of Cuban descent&quot;?  Are you  Cuban-American?  Are you one person at home and another at work? These are  difficult questions, and he walks us through the even more difficult  process of trying to find an answer.  Does he have an answer?  Yes and no.   The author also explores the Cuban community's rise from its initial status  as an underprivileged, immigrant, &quot;exile&quot; community, to its  present role as an assimilated, politically active, financially powerful  ethinic force.  All of this adds more depth to his own personal identity  issues.  The book is fascinating, thoughful, and full of relatives we can  all look at and say &quot;I have an aunt/uncle/mother/father/etc. just like  that!&quot; <br />In the wake of the Elian Gonzalez saga, I just hope everyone  reads this and remembers how and why we got here.  Thank you, Professor  Firmat.	2000-05-13
US	52454948	R1CVRBWCZJ743H	1852424214	677580811	Break It Down (High Risk Books)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	This woman is God.	I have never written an online review, but I just could not help myself this time.  &quot;Break It Down&quot; is absolutely exquisite.  Not only can Ms. Davis write, she can make you FEEL what she's writing about.  There  is a pulse to her stories that grabs you and will not let you go.  Her  exploration of the individual's need for rationalization and order in the  world is powerfully conveyed and leaves you aching for her characters.   I've read many good short stories by many good authors, but seldom do I  come across anything that rocked my world--This rocked my world.	2000-02-08
