US	52459466	RQHBNYBXCACVU	0312099037	468895793	Rotten No Irish No Blacks No Dogs	Books	4	37	42	N	N	Uncensored, Unrepentant, Unrefined, or: the Rotten Legacy	History is written by the victorious, or so the old aphorism goes.  Luckily for us, scions of the information age, history is now as mercurial and conflictive as it should be; the advantage of the mass media - and the circumnavigation tool of the internet - gives the diligent scholar as many points of view and divergent perspectives as one could possibly wish.  So much has been scribed about the Punk revolution of the late 70's - a general amalgamation of myth, fantasy, drug-hazed 'facts' and grim reality - that a fairly clear and lucid standpoint on the whole glorious fiasco can be readily gleaned with a little bit of literary brow-sweat and comparative analysis.  Along with the Sex Pistols documentary *The Filth and the Fury*, this particular tome, Johnny Rotten's autobiography and personal screed, is a great starting point for anyone seeking insight into what this whole Punk scene was about: how it began, briefly flourished, and inevitably went down in flames.  And for the learned, *No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs* is a fantastic reflection on an era of poverty, discontent and chaos, and the artistic movement that resulted from such oppressive circumstances.    We are all now familiar with the Rotten (nee Lydon) persona: the madcap clown, the malcontent, the snarling sarcastic commentator on all that is, well, rotten in contemporary society; the punk anti-idol, the media blackguard (thanks VH1!!), the experimental artist who bafflingly slid into late-80's mediocrity.  But rather focus on Lydon's 90's/00's image - the decrepit curmudgeon with the neon hair-spikes and atrociously funny bad-taste suits - this autobiography begins with the early years: Rotten as the sweet momma's boy, Rotten the spinal meningitis victim, Rotten the school outcast and all-around reprobate.  Interchanging multiple perspectives and time-frames, cutting between Daddy Rotten's nostalgic musings and the Pistol's rapid disintegration in San Francisco, *No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs* proceeds tounleash a salvo of caustic commentary, humorous anecdotes and enough bald truth to encapsulate the reader in the crazed rebellion and smarmy post-modernism of the punk aesthetic.      \\"We were fed up,\\" Rotten intoned on *The Filth and the Fury*, and by the shape of this autobiography, he's still pretty jaundiced-eyed about the outcome.  No one is spared the dregs of bitterness: the British monarchy, the English middle-class mindset, Bill Grundy and public media in general, the record executives and the recording industry, the 'Teds' and even the 'Punks', whom Rotten feels (rather rightly) to have unwittingly betrayed the movement for fashion and ego-excess.  Foppish Malcolm McLauren and the Beatles-lovin' Glen Matlock seem to get the most of the bile when the book covers the inner turmoil of the band, yet it was exactly this tension that sprung forth the sloppy, raw, uncontrollable energy of *Nevermind the Bollocks* and catapulted the Sex Pistols into superstar infamy.      For make no mistake about it: the Sex Pistols spearheaded and came to epitomize this new, loose genre; they were the voices of a disaffected generation...and the echo-howl of more generations to come, as punk 'evolved' and became the sounding board for millions of down-trodden and/or upper-middle wannebe outsiders, eventually resulting in today's top-40 gloss-dross that subsumes the original social/political outcry of the genre for joke-songs and superficial cleverness.  A rotten legacy indeed! Johnny was none too happy with the tribalistic conformity that seeped into punk not long after its inception.  A natural subversive stylist (confirmed by documentary footage), Rotten glowered with 'unhappy cool' and his ripped shirts and garbage-bag inventions, along with Sid's black leather jackets and mutilation fetish, soon became the de jour image-assimilation for anyone seeking fast shock n'yall.  \\"Sheep!\\" the mentor snarls, and rightly so - 'Punk' (originally a term for a prison sex object) is now the most easily identifiable symbol of nonconformist consumerism, the cultivation of faux-poverty.  Pretty damn vacant!    *Rotten: No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs* covers the short duration of the Sex Pistols, gives interesting coverage of the period's general unrest, and captures the sneering, antagonistic persona of the young Rotten, in all his filth and fury.  Unfortunately there is virtually no coverage of what went after the final dissolution of the Pistols.  I personally would have liked at least some explanation (or even half-hearted justification) for the eventual alterna-pop joke that came of Lydon's follow-up band PiL, and some more information on the career/life trajectories of the main players of this sordid tapestry.  But no matter.  This is Rotten's life, Rotten's perspective...and the lucrative benefits of history assure that coverage of these missing factors have been or will be documented in just as exhaustive a fashion.	2005-06-30
US	52459466	R14OG1Y6NQ1KX	0192836684	223272136	Cousin Bette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	43	49	N	N	Balzac's Last Masterpiece	*Cousin Bette*, or Part One of 'Poor Relations,' is considered to be Honore de Balzac's last great novel, the capstone on an oeuvre that spanned nearly a hundred novels.  The author had already begun to ail from overwork by the time of its composition (1846-1847), his methods of genius - sixteen-hour writing days, coupled with crushing \\"motivational\\" debt and a penchant for gallons of black coffee - exacting a toll of stress that would claim his life three years later.  But if the physical shell was failing, the instrument of the mind retained its strength and perception, as *Cousin Bette*, equal and in some ways superior to Balzac's other masterworks (*Lost Illusions*, *Pere Goirot*), gives ample testament.  Of the ten or so works I've read of this French master, this novel was the easiest to dive into and, overall, the most spellbinding and page-turning, no doubt influenced by the manner of its creation.<br /><br />For although Balzac had published a sixteen-volume set of The Human Comedy by the mid 1840's, he had not found the accolades his oeuvre so justly deserved; in fact, he stood in the shadow of Eugene Sue, at the time an enormously popular author who serialized his work in easy tidbits.  The serialization of novels had only come about recently, with Dickin's *Pickwick Papers* and Balzac's *The Old Maid* appearing first in 1836.  The catch, however, was that Balzac was not an author to chop up and present in segments: his novels work best as a slow, steady read, the tension and enjoyment arising through hundreds of devoured pages until climax and, usually, a pessimistic but realistic denouement.  Thus: Sue wrote for the serial; Balzac wrote for himself, and suffered accordingly.  The man's ego had to have taken a bruising:<br /><br />\\"The present situation requires me to write two or three masterful works which will topple the false gods of this bastard literature, and which must demonstrate that I am younger, fresher, and greater writer than ever before!\\"<br /><br />Vainglorious statements, perhaps, yet proven true by ink, sweat and the stench of unroasted coffee beans: Balzac set to work, composing *Cousin Pons* and *Cousin Bette* as the final duology of his vast sociology opus, emerging from the toil with a final masterpiece and a very good companion novel.  Moreover, *Bette* benefited greatly from the conformity to serialization, making it a rare and unique jewel upon the author's tiara.<br /><br />An experienced reader can spot the difference almost immediately.  In every other novel I've read of the Human Comedy, the first forty to fifty pages are usually devoted to detailing the histories of the main characters and the environments they exist in.  This helps to firmly delineate the particulars in the brain, and makes the resultant tragedy and sarcastic farce all the more potent - yet difficult, I would imagine, for serial readers to cope with.  In *Bette*, however, we are thrown into the action immediately with the arrival of self-made magnate Captain Crevel to the House of Baron Hulot.  Without preamble he relates to the Baron's wife, the long-suffering and almost intolerably virtuous Adeline Hulot de'Evry, that her husband has stolen his mistress and, as revenge, Crevel plans on making the Baroness his own mistress - tit for tat! To secure his claim, Crevel dangles the financial future of the Baroness' daughter over her head.  The heated tension of this scene plunges the reader into the meat of the novel without them really realizing it: within one chapter we encounter the stigmatizing standards of high society, the lecherous egos of middle-aged adventurers, the wiles of the courtesan and the depths human beings will sink to reach a personal desire, a feverish vendetta; themes developed continually as the novel progresses through its almost 500 pages of psychological examination and high-drama theatrics.  At the heart of it all, spinning her webs like a black widow, is the negative force of Cousin Bette, theplain-faced, masculine cousin of Baroness Adeline.  Slights of the past, and of the present, gnaw at Bette's heart; she will employ the tactics of Machiavelli to destroy her family and benefactors, at any cost.  A truly frightening creature, this Bette...and *almost* sympathetic, for the origin of her vengeance can be easily understood, if not forgiven.  Thus the genius of Balzac shines through, painting gray within the villainous portrait, defying the archetypes serials require, all the while fashioning a set of character-clich&eacute;s that epitomize the genre, from the hooker with the heart of gold to that murderously unpredictable Brazilian...<br /><br />Yet Balzac had more on his mind than simple plot-dynamics. The introduction of the novel compares the twin passions of the Baron de'Evry (eternal skirt-chaser) and Cousin Bette (the spinster) with the Freudian concepts of eros and thanatos - one ever questing the physical act of love, and in that quest ruining all those who love and esteem him; and the other, twisted by the wrench of unrequited obsession, deliberately plotting a horrific revenge:<br /><br />\\"(Introduction): Freud, in his later works, presented eros and thanatos [sic] as two sides of the same coin.  Almost a century earlier, Balzac had imagined them as two members of the same family.\\"<br /><br />The best literature is timeless: modern readers can glean important lessons about life from the dusty pages of centuries-past.  Balzac is timeless.  He paints the French society in broad strokes, but never neglects the details; he tackles the essential quandaries and inconsistencies of human behavior with a sardonic - though never superior - tone.  *Cousin Bette*'s ending, wherein we discover that the leopard cannot change its spots, will all at once inspire anguished tears, astonished laughter and a knowing shake of the head.<br /><br />Highest Recommendation.Bette, the plain-faced, masculine cousin of Baroness Adeline.  Slights of the past, and of the present, gnaw at Bette's heart; she will employ the tactics of Machiavelli to destroy her family and benefactors, at any cost.  A truly frightening creature, this Bette...and *almost* sympathetic, for the origin of her vengeance can be easily understood, if not forgiven.  Thus the genius of Balzac shines through, painting gray within the villainous portrait, defying the archetypes serials require, all the while fashioning a set of character-clichs that epitomize the genre, from the hooker with the heart of gold to that murderously unpredictable Brazilian...  <br /> <br />Yet Balzac had more on his mind than simple plot-dynamics. The introduction of the novel compares the twin passions of the Baron de'Evry (eternal skirt-chaser) and Cousin Bette (the spinster) with the Freudian concepts of eros and thanatos - one ever questing the physical act of love, and in that quest ruining all those who love and esteem him; and the other, twisted by the wrench of unrequited obsession, deliberately plotting a horrific revenge:  <br /> <br />\\"(Introduction): Freud, in his later works, presented eros and thanatos [sic] as two sides of the same coin.  Almost a century earlier, Balzac had imagined them as two members of the same family.\\" <br /> <br />The best literature is timeless: modern readers can glean important lessons about life from the dusty pages of centuries-past.  Balzac is timeless.  He paints the French society in broad strokes, but never neglects the details; he tackles the essential quandaries and inconsistencies of human behavior with a sardonic - though never superior - tone.  *Cousin Bette*'s ending, wherein we discover that the leopard cannot change its spots, will all at once inspire anguished tears, astonished laughter and a knowing shake of the head. <br /> <br />Highest Recommendation.	2005-05-03
US	52459466	R3D9QYWK5NGTRT	0140442057	485598951	Cousin Pons (Poor Relations, Part 2) (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	For Love of Food: the Monomaniac made Sympathetic	*Cousin Bette* and *Cousin Pons*, Part One and Two of 'Poor Relations', are generally considered to be the last great gasp of French genius Honore de Balzac, inspired simultaneously and written in a fury to capitalize on the recent market for novel serializations.  I'm not sure about this \\"last gasp\\" claim yet - *The Wrong Side of Paris*, Balzac's last novel (recently republished!) is on my reading list - but they certainly are great in and of themselves, *Bette* more than *Pons*, in my opinion.  Not to degenerate this work in the slightest: being within the shadow of a masterpiece is close enough for posterity.   <br /> <br />'Poor Relations' tackles the subject of the individual and its family; but where in *Bette* the poor relation was the spinster cousin, surrounded and revered by her family while she secretly schemed to destroy them, in this novel Pons is the outcast and victim, humiliated by his wealthy relations for his eccentric behavior and mooching ways.  For Pons loves food - sumptuous feasts, where he can indulge the demands of his gastronomical addiction - and when his lack of social grace irritates his relatives to the point of banishment, he always wheedles his way back into their hearts with exquisite presents: Pons' monomania extends to collecting the great masterpieces of art, hoarding them away in his private salon where he can bask in the glory of oil and gold.  After a scheme intended to permanently set his place at the dinner-table goes awry, however, the old man finds himself an exile, snubbed and refused at the homes of his relatives.  The heartbreak - and the stomach-ache - drives the poor man to his deathbed, one hounded by prospective vultures seeking to profit on his jealously-kept collection. <br /> <br />*Cousin Pons*, on reflection, is perhaps one of Balzac's bitterest and unrelentingly tragic novels, sharing similarities to *Pere Goirot* in its plot, structure and sharp denouncement of the materialistic bourgeois society that had comein fashion after the July Revolution.  Greed, avarice, selfishness, poisonous coveting (literally), corruption, hypocrisy and blackmail all raise their heads in this novel, a gaggle of vipers ranging from the highest of society (the infuriating Presidente) to the lowest dregs (the despicable La Cibot), and all those that scheme in between (the ghoulish Fraisier).  Pons and his roommate Schmucke, gentle failures in the game of life, haven't a chance among these beasts: and it is heartache to see the villainous deeds done to these two men for the glitter of lucre and the whiff of prestige.  Balzac was never much of one for happily-ever-after, but most of his tragedies have some sort of uplifting resolution, some cosmic vengeance dealt upon at least a few of the miscreants (and *Bette* was probably the most satisfying in this regard); *Pons* refutes this technique, leaving the reader shaken and upset at the circumstances of the conclusion...at the _reality_ of it.  <br /> <br />This volume is not quite within Balzac's creative pantheon: it's too slim (!), lacking the complexity and the captivating digressions of a *Lost Illusions*; but man o man does that ending work - for the novel, and as a conclusion to one of the most ambitious artistic statements of the past two centuries.   <br /> <br />Four and a half stars, rounded down.	2005-04-28
US	52459466	R30GC9TJL68QW2	0060540176	63741750	Rebels on the Backlot: Six Maverick Directors and How They Conquered the Hollywood Studio System	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Easy Slackers, Raging Egotists - the 90's in Perspective	The 1970's are now considered to be a Golden Age for American cinema, a time when directors, screenwriters and other creative personal called the shots on how studio films were made, a time when films challenged audiences, acutely reflected the darkness of modern culture.  Hollywood's \\"auteur-era\\" imploded at the tail end of the decade, with its rebels - Scorsese, Coppola, Altman et al - lost in a black hole of cocaine synapse-burn, egoism and uncontrolled expenditure, a disastrous event-horizon that peaked with the 1980 release of *Heaven's Gate*, Michael Cimino's wildly over-budgeted mess that nearly bankrupted United Artists.  This, along with the advent of the summer blockbuster as epitomized by *Jaws* and *Star Wars*, signaled a bottom-line-oriented revolution in the studio system.  Number-crunching executives emerged to regain the mantel of power, dictating the method of the entertainment business as profit-margin first, artistic expression a distant second.  The calculated blockbusters of the 1980's reflect this transition, the emphasis on big stars, big explosions, feel-good vibes and/or tear-jerking manipulation dominating nearly all of the flagship titles of the decade.      Eventually this profit-margin formula became stale, toothless in its demographic estimations; and beneath the stagnant scum-crust of the \\"mainstream\\" there began to thrive a new, angry generation of filmmakers, auteur-initiates pushing the envelope.  These films reveled in violence, sex, drugs and other taboo subjects; they criticized the mentality of capitalist America, exposing the contradictions and deep hypocrisies fueling its consumer-ethic.  Typically, the same studio executives responsible for propagating the 80's attitudes instantly sought to benefit from this disruptive new voice of cinema, making superstars of the auteur, capturing their caustic visions on celluloid while keeping the keys of ~carte blanche~ firmly above reach: the lessons of the 1970's had not been forgotten.Susan Waxman's chronicles this turbulent era in *Rebels on the Backlot,* a tale of six maverick directors gleefully subverting the Hollywood paradigm, of the suits struggling to maintain the blockbuster status-quo, and of the resultant art that came about, by hook or by crook.  In tone and style this book resembles Peter Biskind's classic deconstruction of 70's cinema, *Easy Riders, Raging Bulls*, consisting of equal part in-depth examination and tabloid-level gossip.      The directors:    TARANTINO: Pop-culture synthesist, blatant plagiarist, hygienically challenged: cinema autodidact Quentin Tarantino kick-started the new renaissance with his 1994 neo-noir masterpiece *Pulp Fiction.* A man-child motor-mouth and television addict, Tarantino combined his instincts for drama - and his serial theft of other people's work - to shape the gunshot heard around the world, muffled (barely) between Biblical quotes and McDonalds musings.  Quick to drop his old collaborators for the star-shine of Hollywood, Tarantino then regressed into a pot-hazed period of unproductive ambivalence, secretly tormented by his inability to come up with a single original idea.    SODERBERGH: The Yin to Tarantino's Yang, Steven Soderbergh exploded with 1989's *sex, lies and videotape*, then spent many years afterward on a downward trajectory, yearning for the free-wheeling spirit of the independent sphere, making a host of obtuse 'personal' films before successfully combining his independent streak with the mainstream in 1999's drug war epic *Traffic*.  Soderbergh's story is that of the truly gifted auteur trapped in a cycle of self-sabotage, emerging victorious only after a long, bitter fight.    PAUL THOMAS ANDERSON: Porn-lover PTA put his heart (and everything else) on the screen with his San Fernando Valley epics *Boogie Nights* and *Magnolia.* Evoking comparisons to Scorsese and Altman, Anderson certainly had something to say - the fact that he took so long to say it, and did so in sucha bombastic way, had New Line executives tearing out their hair trying to make his message palatable to a wide audience.  No luck so far...    O'RUSSEL: Idiosyncratic and controlling, David O'Russel mined darkly comical material from the trauma of his wealthy east-coast childhood, and eventually came to make Hollywood's first critical take on the Gulf War with *Three Kings.*  Tensions flared between the director and George Clooney, climaxing with fisticuffs in the Arizona desert and a long-standing feud after the film's release.  Waxman obviously thinks highly of O'Russel's talent (more than I do, certainly), and a large part of the book is devoted to this socially-inept director.    FINCHER: The heart of darkness over at Fox Studios, David Fincher took Chuck Palahniuk's *Fight Club* and, for once in a blue moon, managed to make a film superior to the source text.  A biting satire of consumerism/fascism, *Fight Club* was despised by Fox's suits and marketers and infuriated conservative honcho Rupert Murdoch; the press, just as clueless as to the film's intentions, savaged it upon release.  And yet *Fight Club* is now one of the great DVD successes, having found its audience among the young and restless whom identify with Tyler Durden, or at least with what he had to say...    JONZE: A self-taught upstart from MTV, Spike Jonze slipped through the cracks to make one of Hollywood's strangest marquee flicks: the brilliant *Being John Malcovitz*, a film that would have never seen the light of day if not for the perseverance of Jonze and a studio hand-over.    As in *Easy Riders, Raging Bulls*, Waxman ends her thesis with a recount of \\"where are they now\\" - a conclusion marred by the fact that this book is only five years down the road from the peak-year of 1999.  In fact, *Rebels on the Backlot* is basically a much slighter version of that chronicle: for though it is written and sequenced in the same way, the narrow focus hardly paints an adequate picture of 90's cinema.  Spike Lee, Richard Linkleter and Peter Jackson are hardly mentioned; Gus Van Zant is totally missing; the Wachoski Bros, Wes Anderson, David Aronofsky, Sam Mendes and Alexander Payne and are given sketchy-at-best accounts.  Several of the above listed created far more influential and brain-bending films, IMO, than O'Russel or PTA.  Still, for an amusing, gossipy, and occasionally insightful glimpse into the better cinema of mid-to-late 90's, *Rebels on the Backlot* serves its purpose.	2005-02-27
US	52459466	R3ABCJXQOOJYSU	1563892677	542881746	Invisibles, The: Revolution VOL 01 (Vertigo)	Books	4	92	117	N	N	Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the INVISIBLES!	Alan Moore's *Watchmen* dropped into the mid-80's Zeitgeist like a nail-bomb, embedding white-hot shrapnel into fertile young minds, shredding long-held preconceptions about the genre, and, all in all, signifying a new level of maturity to the medium of the 'illustrated lit.' - or comic books, if you prefer - with its adult themes and meta-narrative complexity.  *Watchmen* tore through the boundaries, building upon the template of the \\"graphic novel\\" as pioneered in the early 80's, and therein expanding the potentiality of it ten-fold...it threw down the gauntlet, cocked the hammer of the duel-pistol; it challenged artisans to ~step up their game~, evolve beyond superhero tights and Golden Age clichs; it left a huge vacuum in its wake - and, as we all know, nature abhors a vacuum.      Thus we come to DC's Vertigo imprint, a label intended for mature stories, and more specifically to Grant Morrison and his *Invisibles*, the self-appointed (and occasionally self-conscious) heir to the post-modern *Watchman* wake.  Begun in 1996, during a widespread industry slump due in large part to greed and mismanagement, and concluded at the end of 1999, on the eve of the new millennium, *The Invisibles* sought to achieve the depth, breadth and influence of Moore's juggernaught, to give a greater perspective to the fringe-elements of contemporary society, to reveal/ridicule/rise above the morass of ~popular paranoia~ as embodied by the X-files, Fortean Times, David Icke and other exploiters of conspiracy theory... \\"This is the comic I've wanted to write all my life,\\" Morrison stated at the end of issue 1, \\"a comic about everything: action, philosophy, paranoia, sex, magic, biography, travel, drugs, religion, UFO's...\\" In no uncertain terms Morrison envisioned the be-all end-all illustrated compendium of out-there speculation, a kitchen-sink omnibus entailing all theories and systems, a 'hypersigil' that would influence/embody the outward reality it modeled itself on - and, hopefully, make our world a better, more entertaining place in which to dwell.  For only with an open mind can we really reap the benefit of life's ongoing pageant, boogie down to syncopated pulse of the information era.      Morrison lacked neither ambition nor energy in his resultant craft, *The Invisibles*, a seven-volume conspiracy-epic that begins here, with 'Say You Want a Revolution.'  Does it succeed even moderately to its stated intention? Well, yes - albeit somewhat fitfully.  For this volume, besides being the opening gambit of the whole affair, nicely encapsulates the heady potential of Morrison's material, the verve and style, as well as the excess and superficial assimilation that occasionally brings the whole thing into the perilous straights of pretentiousness, of under-compensated imagination-overload.  It is fantastic, frustratingly vague, epic and tangent-flabby, a borderline-smirk to all its influences and to those influenced.  It's like nothing else on the market - and that alone assures its position on the top-shelf graphic novel 'classics' space.    *The Invisibles vol. 1: Say You Want a Revolution* compiles the first two story-arcs of the series: firstly, the initiation of Dane McGowan into the mysteries of the Invisible order, and secondly, the Arcadia time-warp continuation.  The first story is arguably the better and more effective of the two, being a variation on the classic hero/fool's journey from wild agitator to learned acolyte. The art reflects the influence of the 60's that infuses Morrison's storytelling: the draftsmanship, inking, coloring and framing is highly reminiscent of the Ditko/Kerby et al. styling of the Aquarius-Era renaissance in comic books.  The second story, Arcadia, veers between two dovetailing plotlines: the Invisibles journey back to the French Revolution to secure the 'psychic projection' of the Marquis DeSade, and find themselves trapped in the libertine's most infamous work, while the Romantic poets Shelly and Byron pontificate about literary influence (\\"a cannon fires only once, but words detonate across centuries\\") and cope with personal tragedies.  This second story-arc gets a bit messy (literally), but also contains superior writing and art, and builds into an effective climax that, in the end, had me scrambling to collect the rest of the series.  Morrison's hypersigil had me.     A literati l'enfant terrible, the author packs his narrative with a mind-boggling assortment of allusions, occult references and outright assimilation.  A short list (deep breath): Egyptian symbolism, Situationist propaganda, Rock n' Roll quotation, Irish mythology, psychological probes and split-personalities, Mind Control, Satanic sacrifice, Freemasons, Templar Holy Grail metaphors (including the head of John the Baptist!), the Tarot, UFO's, Alien paradigm-shift assistance, syntax-manipulation, Gnosticism, Aztec demonology, multiple dimensions, etc. etc.  Literary references include Shakespeare (King Lear), Carlos Castaneda, Browning, Shelly and Byron, and most explicitly, DeSade's *120 days of Sodom.*  Some of these influences are made obvious, some are revealed only via visual interpretation, and some reach the threshold of gratuitous - not all works as well as it could (envisioning DeSade as a contemporary anti-hero is a bit of stretch) - but, overall, the confidence Morrison displays, and the generally successful accruement of his various sources, lends *The Invisibles* the impressive resonance of the meta-narrative, the glamour-sheen of a work in tune to the reverberation of the Zeitgeist, more than ready to challenge its current state, insert the past into the present and therein shape the future mass-consciousness.  Morrison claimed that *The Invisibles* would have the same sort of repercussions as the Sex Pistols, hence my review-title; I'm doubtful of this claim, given that *The Invisibles* still remains relegated to underground highbrows, but it ~did~ influence those who made *The Matrix* (striking parallels can be found in the hero's journey segment of this book) - and that cinematic epic, for better and for worse, has forcibly inserted hyper-referential meta-narratives into the cultural identity.    It's easy to criticize ambition.  Certainly this book is messy, occasionally pretentious, overly stylistic and a bit smarmy in tone - but throughout, Morrison's intent remains pure:    \\"And in my mind, I see the sun rise on a new and better world.\\"     Highly Recommended	2005-02-22
US	52459466	R3MQS1CW42ERGE	0691017948	356513109	Synchronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle	Books	5	34	41	N	N	Beyond Chance, or: Mapping the Etherverse	Just as Oppenheimer's Shiva-jigging atom-stomp codified the nuclear sciences as a force to be reckoned with and redefined the method and madness of the battlefield for the 20th century, so in turn were set in motion a series of sub-atomic particle explorations that would ultimately serve just as destructive to long-held paradigms about the nature of the universe.  The contradictory tenants of Quantum Physics desecrated the Newtonian Determinism that had dominated modern thought for some two hundred years: the electron 'cloud of possibility' and the photon wave/particle paradox shattered the comfortable, mechanistic notion of causality (cause and effect), relegating it to historical curiosity.  In effect: these rigid clockwork rules, when viewed at the smallest sphere, suddenly turn elastic, \\"reality\\" dictated by the will of the observer and/or the constraint of the causal experiment: clockwork causality began to stretch like salt-water taffy before the conscious participant, giving Dali's soft-clock surrealism an eerily prescient scope.  For empiricists and hardwired logicians, Quantum-theory was as dangerous and reality-threatening as anything Darwin pulled on the Secular Fundamentalists, and resistance to its baffling, frustratingly unfussy relativity continues to this day - some would rather reject it out of hand, rather than deal with the consequences.      Others, on the other hand, probed the quandary, and found therein substantive material for the more questionable aspects of this existence.  Psychoanalyst Carl Jung latched onto the discoveries of his friends Einstein, Planck, Bohr (etc.), saw the correlation with Eastern philosophy and his own studies into the paranormal, and in 1952 published *Sychronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle,* an attempt to condense and conceptualize some very difficult peculiarities/inconsistencies that statistical science neglected to take into account - specifically 'meaningful coincidences', the inexplicable that occurredfar too often to be products of chance.  Or, as Jung put it: \\"Sychronicity... means the simultaneous occurrence of a certain psychic state with one or more external events which appear as meaningful parallels to the momentary objective state...(pg. 25).\\"  In other words, the chaotic, malleable elements of the extreme microverse have a representative affect on our causal-ruled macroverse - although the manifestation of it cannot be adequately measured, due to its unpredictable nature - and to Jung's views, this was as a serious venture to be studied rather than outright dismissed.    Essential to this argument is the concept of a 'soul,' or soul-network: 'something' beyond the physical perception, and beyond the spatial limitations of energy, working in accordance to its own plan.  Jung envisioned, beyond the mechanistic aspect of the 'normal' world, a broader framework of existence, in which all things are connected via an indefinable ether-verse, encompassing such derided/quizzical concepts as \\"meaningful coincidences,\\" foreknowledge/precognition/intuition, ESP, telepathy, telekinesis, and so forth.  As a human came to channel the Quantum theory, \\"...we must regard them as creative acts, as the continuous creation of a pattern that exists from all eternity, repeats itself sporadically, and is not derivable from any known antecedents (pg 102).\\"      Heady stuff! It's interesting to note Jung tip-toe around the `G' word (the thesis would have been outright rejected then and there by self-respecting scientists), instead incorporating the Tao, Schopenhauer's Will & various other cultural representations of an all-pervading force that, as the Chinese sages knew three thousand years before, could not be comprehended consciously, but through meditative \\"non-being\\" ... or the ~unconscious state~, Jung is quick to clarify.  Integral to this discussion are archetypes, the common models upon which cultural icons/identities are patterned.  Jung does not go into specifics here(for he mined archetypes throughout his career) but does pose several interesting notes - the theory of whether numbers actually existed, as archetypes, before human conception (and human existence?) was certainly something to ponder upon.    *Sychronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle* is divided into four sections, being 1) the establishment of the theory, 2) an experiment of statistical randomness to 'prove' Sychronicity by way of astrology, 3) a list of examples of similar concepts throughout the ages (the Tao etc. mentioned above), and 4) a lecture in 1951 wherein the genesis of this book was formulated.  As a student of Eastern philosophy, nothing Jung stated here was exactly new or revelatory to my mindset; but when the dominant Western attitude of that period is taken into perspective, it is easy to see why this work would be deemed controversial and, a favored expression of shallow dismissal, \\"junk science.\\"    Still, some reservations should be made here.  For one, Synchronicity shouldn't be considered science, rather a metaphysical theory; and Jung falls into the all-to-common trap of claiming his hypothesis as irrefutable, using the higher-than-probable results of his tests and a number of \\"meaningful\\" coincidental stories to make his case.  I suggest that anyone seriously investigating these theories make the effort to view both sides of the coin - those who support and those who refute the concept of Synchronicity and the innumerable derivations of Quantum possibility, for the following reason:     This thesis can be seen as an origin point for the current market of the New Age: hokum and free-wheelin' misinterpretation take voluminous cues from that established by Einstein et al.  Although there are practical alternatives - self-help agencies such as PSI and similar motivational speakers a la Tony Robbins utilize these concept as the base platform of success: \\"To Think is to Create\\" - despite this, the more intricate (and exciting) aspects of Quantum Physics are often diluted by some into mass-consciousness vehicles for easy enlightenment - think of Redfield's bestselling poppycock-omnibus *The Celestine Prophecy,* or any number of Quantum-cannibalizing frauds designed exclusively for the bohemian soccer-mom set - and the increasingly nebulous 'pseudo' aspect of it subsequently strengthens resistance from traditionalists and skeptics.     This book is an excellent attempt to map the unknown, the indefinable *Something* so intrinsic with the ongoing process of life.  A brave, massively influential analysis of all that 'beyond chance' - five stars.	2005-02-16
US	52459466	R3RVZELKAADJMP	014044050X	11361223	Eugenie Grandet (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	For Love of Gold: The Burden of the Miser, Scathingly Told	Marcel Proust famously said of Balzac: \\"He hides nothing; he says everything.\\"  A more fitting quote has never been attributed to this visionary of the mid-19th century, this paragon and paradox, who at the age of thirty declared that he would devote his life to a chronicle of his contemporary era, classifying the social strata of France through narrative.  Balzac went on to write more than ninety novels of his self-styled 'Human Comedy', the deliberate rival and successor to Dante's vast metaphorical triumph, a handful of which are rightly considered to be among the utmost achievement of classical literature.  Balzac's ego was as vast as his ambition and his talent, and he considered 'pretended portrayal' - shallow platitudes to disguise interior deficiencies - as vain and unworthy. In his art Balzac sought to consolidate and epitomize whatever themes he worked on at the time, drawing inspiration from his own experiences and multifold resources...if Henry James is correct in his claim that Balzac's great glory stemmed from the fact that he pretended ~hardest~, through the combination of overwork and intuition, then his unique status is assured on that effort alone: but we have his works to draw on, all ninety-three of them, to reassure that Balzac's spirit and intent were pure: in other words, the art of complete representation.  Few can match the French genius in this regard.<br /><br />Each of Balzac's novels tackle a different theme of the human condition, and in *Eugenie Grandet*, written in 1833, the subject of avarice is contemplated, and devastatingly revealed, through the author's usual concoction of dry wit, scathing portrayal, minutiae-obsession and omniscient understanding: Balzac's perspective is that of the all-seeing, all-knowing Godhead third eye, simultaneously deconstructing and putting into perspective the actions and consequences of the miser, in all his sordid, gold-grasping compulsion.  It's difficult to second-guess or place doubt upon the fiery condemnations explicit in this text: just brace yourself for the ride, and expect the grunts of agreement, the surprised whistles and the startled outbursts of laughter that inevitable result from a tour through this man's prodigious mind.  Entering Balzac is to confront oneself with genius, to learn and be humbled...and be entertained, lest I forget, in ways rarely qualified by his contemporaries.  It is this humorous quality, implicit in his contemplation of human nature, that endear Balzac so close to my heart; even when you know events are going to turn badly, as they so often do, the rare psychological and sociological insight of the author, so keen, pessimistic yet never despairing, buoy one across the tides of tragedy.<br /><br />I loathe to speak too much of the interior text of any Balzac novel, which in turn always somewhat hinders my attempt at review, for it is my belief that the shape and scope of each particular episode of The Human Comedy should be discovered by the diligent reader with as little knowledge about the text as possible, therein to reduce spoiling the impact of the narrative; a foolish desire, I know: and a standard overview of the surface is necessary.  Thus: *Eugenie Grandet* tells the tale of the quintessential miser, Monsieur Grandet, a man who, as another reviewer accurately depicted, is a caricature of money-grubbers everywhere - but what a caricature! One cannot help feel as much amused as disgusted by Grandet's penny-pinching and wily business shenanigans, which include the affectation of a stammer to throw off opponents, shady negotiations to curtail any forced obligations, and casual back-stabbing of his compatriots when there is coin to be made; the portrait is made complete with massive amounts of gloating and caressing of his gold behind closed doors.  Grandet lives to make money, and to have as little of it leave his possession as possible, thus reducing his immediate family to a state of penury entailing shaved lumps ofsugar, a ban on fires for most of the year, an utter lack of decorative excess and a strict rationing of bread and water as the main constituent - jam being an outrageous luxury! Madame Grandet and her daughter, Eugenie, suffer like saints in this condition, ignorant of any other sort of lifestyle, at least until cousin Charles Grandet of Paris appears at the door one day, a dandy whose finery and extravagance shocks the elder Grandet and bewitches the deprived Eugenie.  From here I will reveal no more, except to say that Grandet's miserly affliction condemns his offspring, even from beyond the grave; avarice becomes a hereditary endowment, unconsciously applied, though the daughter - shy and virginal - continually exerts her generous nature despite the installed programming, giving a faint ray of charitable bliss to the grim consequence of the denouement.<br /><br />In all of his novels, Balzac peppers the narrative with observational asides and digressions, enhancing the story with the reflections of earned experience:<br /><br />\\"The beginning of love and the beginning of life have a pleasing likeness to one another.  Is it not everyone's concern to lull a child with soothing songs and kind looks, to tell him stories of wonders that paint the future with gold for him?  Are not hope's dazzling wings always spread for his delight? Does he not shed tears of joy as well as grief, and grow impatient about nothing, about the stones with which he tries to build an unsteady palace, about the flowers forgotten as soon as picked? Is he not eager to grasp time and put it behind him, to get on with his business of life? Love is the soul's second metamorphosis.\\" (pgs 168-169)<br /><br />It is these moments of internalized perception, brought forth from quill to parchment, that bring the events surrounding into perspective; that make Balzac an author to be poured over, analyzed with delight, to be read again and again.  *Eugenie Grandet* deserves its place next to *Lost Illusions*, *The Black Sheep*, *Pere Goirot* and *Cousin Bette* at the forefront of The Human Comedy, and literature in general.<br /><br />Highly Recommended.	2005-02-09
US	52459466	RFDEONYTM3K71	0192840126	13376649	Aspects of Wagner	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Concise Examination of a Master Composer	More than any other figure in the classical Canon, Richard Wagner (1813 - 1883) has provoked a dichotomy of passion in regards to his music, character and legacy.  Bryan Magee's *Aspects of Wagner*, a series of concise, articulate essays about the composer and theorist, confronts both sides of the polarization, examining the essential components that inspire such adulation, probing with unusual insight the negative connotations ever associated with mere mention of the name.     These aspects, in brief:    THEORY:  After the success of Lohengrin, Wagner took a six-year break from composing to recharge the cylinders, theorize and re-examine the operatic form.  The result of this sabbatical would shake the foundations of the Canon.  For Wagner, no longer would drama be a means to a musical end - window-garnishing syntax to embellish the sonic - instead, music would be the means with which to express the dramatic ~emotion~ of the piece.  Music would emphasize, shift and elucidate to the passage of the text, a notion that has proved indescribably influential: the whole of modern film-symphonic owes its debt to this innovation.      JEWS: A virulent anti-Semitist, repelled by the physical aspect of Jews and critical of their compositional abilities - \\"shallow and artificial\\" - Wagner espoused these opinions in the public forum and, in reality, reflected the mindset of mainstream German society during his time.  Further propagated by Wagner's widow and offspring, these views influenced Hitler as a youth and were taken verbatim for his totalitarian platform. Wagner's demand for Judiasm to be eradicated, via renouncement of faith and conversion to Christian theism, was corrupted by the Nazi propagandists as a call for physical annihilation.  More fuel for the critical fire! And yet, one of Wagner's closest companions, Hermann Levi, was a Jew, and conducted the premiere of Parsifal; moreover, Wagner's worldview of pacifism and assimilation doesn't jive at all with the Fascistmanifesto - the Nazis took what was useful and abandoned the 'feel good' vibes.   Bryan Magee doesn't really address any of this, however: rather, he theorizes as to ~why~ Wagner considered Jews inferior artists, especially in regard to the fact that three of the dominant geniuses of our modern culture were Jewish - Marx, Freud and Einstein.  Magee points to the cultural repression of Judaism throughout hundreds of years, an isolationist subjugation that was only beginning to disintegrate by the start of 19th century; the flowering of Jewish intellect - and assimilation of Western culture - would take several generations to unfold.  The resultant revolutionary thought of the triumvirate above, undeniable in their influence, stemmed from an outward contemplation and subsequent deconstruction of the adopted conventional standards.  Indeed, Wagner's original essays are surprisingly insightful as to the underlying reasons for the artifice of Jewish composers of his day, though the eventual intellectual aptitude they would bring to the table undoubtedly eluded the composer.    IDOLATRY: As much the subject of abject idolatry as venomous refutation, Wagner is a love-or-hate figure, with little ground of compromise between. Magee theorizes that this is because the music, in harmonic construction and theme, gives expression to all that unconscious and repressed in the human mind, including Oedipal sexuality, unleashed eroticism, moral questioning and violence; the tonal qualities stir forth base, animalistic urges to the forefront, taboos further exemplified by the stage-work.  The composer's emphasis on the undercurrents of the psyche predated modern psychology by fifty years: thus the subconscious ~rejection~ of many to his music, and its appeal to the more questing intellect.     INFLUENCE: A short list: Gustav Mahler, Anton Schonberg, Richard Strauss, Dvorak, Piotr Tchaikovsky, Claude Dubussy, Edward Elgar, Dmitry Shostakovich, Anton Bruckner; James Joyce, Bernard Shaw, Marcel Proust, D.H. Lawerence, Oscar Wilde, E.M. Forster, Thomas Mann, Virginia Wolff; T.S. Elliot, Baudelaire, Lytton, Ezra Pound; Nietzsche and Freud.  When one contemplates the authority these people had over their disciples, the position of Wagner, in terms of all aspects of modern thought, truly staggers the mind, and lends credit to Magee's conclusion that \\"...Wagner has had greater influence than any other artist on our culture of the age.\\"     PERFORMANCE: The greatest compositions can never reach true interpretation, according to Magee; each conductor brings something different to the performance, and only reaches an approximation of that on paper - even the creator fails to achieve a definitive performance! Magee also goes into depth about what is needed to properly stage a Wagner spectacle, and uses the model of Bayreuth's opera house, constructed by the composer himself, as the epitome surroundings.  Wagner set the orchestra out-of-sight, so as not to distract the audience from the on-stage drama; he arranged the acoustics of the opera house to give emphasis to the words, with the music hovering beneath as counterpoint and ambient emphasis.  Another issue in this essay is the conflict that arises in non-German speakers listening to Wagner.  With the text so critical to the overall appreciation, and the differences of semantic inflection taken into account, there are two choices: learn German, or seek out the better translations that, although conforming to the grammar, sometimes lose the power of meaning.    MUSIC: Magee criticizes the (then) contemporary adaptation of Wagner's sound-cycles to politically-correct allegory.  Wagner deliberately utilized myth and archetypes to simplify the narrative and give emphasis on emotional undercurrents; using it as critical commentary on current issues (1960's) was, to Magee, a debasement of Wagner's ideal.  Magee also notes how difficult it is to write about the music ~itself~: thus the glut of media talking about every aspect of Wagner *except* that which he is most famous for, that which firmly set his place on the Romantic pantheon!    This book serves as an insightful analysis of Wagner, in all his complexities and contradictions.  Recommended for the student of the classical Canon.	2005-02-07
US	52459466	RPP0FAC7CS33D	0375725024	427984483	Cakes and Ale	Books	5	11	17	N	N	The Muse of Youth	In the development from squalling tyke to full-fledged adulthood, human beings tend to gather around them items of media that reflect back upon them their personal conception of the world, in all its myriad forms: music that invigorates the higher spheres, movies that confirm our own view of existence, and authors that speak directly to us, that seem able to give tangible expression to our individual perceptions.  For me, reading Somerset Maugham is like diving into the ambivalent soup of my own viewpoint.  With his dry wit, penetrating digressions and general psychological understanding of the foibles and frequent inconsistencies of human behavior, Somerset ~feels~ like a fellow brother-in-arms, a voice in the ether, a soulmate artist intoning over the distance of seven decades.  It's like reading my own thoughts.  Thus have I systematically perused the man's greater works, including his two masterpieces *Of Human Bondage* and *The Razor's Edge*, and returned again and again to the little jewels that fashion the glittering arraignment of his literary crown, being the short stories that are the condensed summation of Somerset's genius perception.  Not that the man would agree with that last statement: Somerset considered himself the top of 2nd tier authors, far from `genius' status; and was condemned by critics for his popularity and lack of the experimental drive.  Given that he did not delve into the symbolic/semantic abysses of his contemporaries Faulkner and Joyce, Somerset's oeuvre and reputation has remained 2nd tier for the Ivory Tower set, with his focus on `real world' examination paling before the tongue-twisting allegory-riffing of the literary elite.  But I'd rather browse the *Collected Short Stories* for the nth time than be rebuffed by *Finnigan's Wake*, the resultant insights of those short stories revealing more in their brevity than anything I could possibly assimilate in the syntax swamp of the Dubliner.      Despite his so-called 2nd tier status,Somerset has survived the literary axe of indifference, gaining stature as the years march on and his works are continually reexamined; and it is curious to read, near the beginning of this novel, the author's alias Ashenden argue with a potboiler-scribe named Roy Kear about posterity - specifically which of their colleagues will endure their current era.  Roy Kear claims that that the principle subject of their discussion, a one Edward Driffield, so-called \\"last of the Victorians\\", has put a permanent stamp upon the literary zeitgeist.  Ashenden/Somerset refutes this with this simple opinion that he finds Driffield's works \\"rather boring.\\"  And later, around the halfway mark of *Cakes and Ales*, Somerset slips from the narrative into a long digression about posterity itself, concluding with the basic idea: \\"Longevity = Posterity.\\"  Driffield, loosely based on Thomas Hardy, wrote so many novels, and lived to such an advanced age, that he outlasted all his competitors and was eventually hailed as a \\"living genius\\" by a society desperate for continual applications to the Canon, especially those survivors who could be re-discovered and subsequently championed.  If Somerset's theory is correct, then even Stephen King will be considered an essential stone in the Zeitgeist (... \\"NEVER! NEVER!\\" I can hear the Bloomites and literati shout, even now) with his accurate reflection of 20th century atmosphere - real-time horrors metaphorically transfigured into cheesy monsters - and, more importantly, by his vast, prolific staying power.   Time will tell.    *Cakes and Ale* is a minor work of Somerset's oeuvre, but not insignificant: the author himself stated it to be his favorite work, and I must admit that, like the short fiction, this slender volume contains the essence of Somerset's talent and technique, a condensed viewpoint much easier and overall enjoyable than the emotional torment *Of Human Bondage.*  The book concerns itself with the legacy of Edward Driffield, post-mortem; Roy Kears has been hired to write a glowing tribute/biography of the famous author, and he enlists Somerset, who knew the deceased long before his literary fame, to help with research.  *Cakes and Ale* is thus a near-sequel to *Of Human Bondage*, as Somerset reflects on his boyhood days - the terrible conformity and isolationism of English villages; his eventual escape therein - a flight aided in part by Driffield and the central pivot of the man's career, his first wife Rosie.  Rosie, free-thinking, vivacious and serially unfaithful, inspires Driffield's finest novels and serves as his golden-haired muse.  Roy Kears and Driffield's second wife view Rosie as the stain upon the authorial page, the impediment which kept the author from his deserved glory: she is to be reduced as much as possible from the biography.  Somerset thinks otherwise, although he is remarkably prejudiced, given his relationship with her; but with the concluding passages of *Cakes and Ale* he gives concrete evidence as to the importance of this wanton Muse, without which Driffield might never have attained his peak prowess.    (A side note: Rosie's character reminds me of Ida, from Graham Greene's *Brighton Rock*, and both can be viewed as an English author's artistic attempt to exorcise the puritan viewpoint of the day about \\"loose women\\" in general.  \\"Rosie was made to love,\\" Somerset gushes, biased by circumstance but psychologically keen nonetheless).    *Cakes and Ale*: A minor but extremely enjoyable text from one of the greatest observers/authors of the early 20th century.  Highly Recommended.	2005-02-06
US	52459466	R3L8ID24KXSQ75	156931778X	419611869	Battle Royale	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Game of Death	Originally submitted for a literary competition, Koushun Takami's *Battle Royale* was hotly contested and eventually rejected in the final round, condemned for its caustic blend of violence, satire and pulp-extravagance.  If anything, this reaction helped assure its bestseller status in Japan - uproar always sells copy - and the novel's shelf-life was then immeasurably augmented by the ensuing film-adaptation and comic serialization (...I saw issues of it crowding manga-bins in Thailand).  Stateside, however, *Battle Royale*, in any form, existed as a media-indefinite, praised throughout the cyberverse by those 'in the know' but unavailable through any mainstream outlet.  Thankfully this has changed, with the primary text now translated and sleekly packaged for round-eyes, and the movie slated for a `special edition' Region-One release date.      The story itself is a *Lord of the Flies*-style update, cynically embellished with the hallmarks of tech-dystopia.  In essence: forty-two schoolchildren are shipped to a remote location, provided weapons, and ordered to kill or be killed, thrive or die, until the last is standing.  In Takami's alternative universe, Japan has devolved into a totalitarian dictatorship; the 'game' of *Battle Royale* keeps the mainland inhabitants in line and also provides an exciting gambling venture for those in power.  As for the children involved? The author employs the pivotal theme of William Golding's mid-20th century masterpiece, in that under extreme circumstances, human beings face a psychological choice: to become the beast (or at least to ~mimic~ it), or to rise above.  *Battle Royale* thus chronicles the individual decisions of these schoolchildren.  Some choose the beast.  Others struggle to retain their basic human dignity.  Some choose death, others love - and damn the consequences.  And the rest do their best to simply survive, as the clock ticks down and the territory of the killing ground diminishes every six hours.  For in this game of death, there is only one possible survivor.    The premise of *Battle Royale* is irresistible, with great potential...almost too much potential.  In the hands of a lesser author, the story could easily spin out of control, descending into bloodbath extremes and overt melodrama; and in the very least, losing its focus among the multitude of players and total range of situations.  Takami's overall control of his concept - establishing the rules early on, and concentrating primarily on a select group of characters, with brief digressions for the minor players - is commendable on a sheer technical level; and the skill in which he develops, and disposes, of these schoolchildren makes it easy to see why *Battle Royale* sparked controversy and gained a strong following upon its release.  The concept of children murdering children, and some gleefully and/or efficiently at that, is uncomfortable to those who envision peace and prosperity as the principal goal of the human race: it's not surprising that *Battle Royale*, for some, inspires a knee-jerk reaction of negativity before a page is turned.  Yet there is more here than typical grindhouse exploitation.  The concept of love under extremities is the primary thematic nucleus of the novel, developed carefully and powerfully; and Takami wisely sets the protagonist view on Shuya, who feels the exact same way as most (sane) people would.  \\"They won't do it... impossible...\\" he constantly reflects at the beginning, honestly believing it so until graphically proven otherwise; and for the remainder of the contest he strives to survive without playing the game, as much out of spite for the evil propagating it as his own moral code.    There are several aspects that elevate *Battle Royale* above the genre of pulp.  The first and foremost, IMO, is the masterful development of the characters.  It has been six months since I read this novel, and I still have vivid images of the main players: battle-scarred Shogo with his shotgun; the chillingly psychotic Kazuo Kiriyama; prey-turned-predator Mitsuko (perhaps the saddest character of the lot); the stoic and utterly focused martial-arts master Hiroaki Sugimura.  And Tahara Sakamochi, of course.  I've rarely seen a more villainous portrait 'come to life' from the printed page.  The environments and action, although only adequately described, do take hold the mind's eye, and I can correlate these characters with some very poignant - and brutal - moments, attaining the hallucinatory power of the inner-cinema.      Another aspect is developed more powerfully in the film, being a satire on the repressed, media-drenched, violence-devouring Japanese culture.  Although *Battle Royale's* 'game' is inconceivable, at least for the present, let us reflect on the state of modern television: how many murders occur on a primetime night? How many children are watching CSI and/or any number of its clones/competitors at this moment? Rape, exploitation, death - these are primal triggers for easy cash - and it's only going to get more explicit.  This book barely hints at competition-as-entertainment satire, but inspires enough internal thought about the matter that, when coupled with the psychological trauma/adaptation that this sort of situation might create, makes *Battle Royale* a worthy read in its own right.       Along with the violence, of course - there is enough triune-stroke here to satiate even the most rabid gore-hound.    The translation suffers from grammar-errors and awkward transitions, and I think they were going a little too much for the 'punchy' effect, but Takami's raw material more than makes up for the occasional blunder...and the ending, in a word: incredible.  *Battle Royale* is powerful, compelling material, some of the best pulp on the market.    Four and 1/2 Stars.	2005-02-03
US	52459466	R1YZ1K9MLNRLMK	1583940634	216232870	The Diary of a Teenage Girl: An Account in Words and Pictures	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Refugee of Aquarius: A Young Woman's Cartoon-Catharsis	Now acclaimed for her work as a bio-graphic designer and underground cartoonist, Phoebe Gloeckner developed her prodigious skill through a trial of fire: enduring the hormone-clouded squall of pubescence amidst the flotsam and jetsam of the San Francisco post-Aquarius `free-love' era.  Precocious to a fault and lacking serious support from her immediate family, young Phoebe embarked upon the adolescent journey with karma to burn, seeking love in all the wrong faces and finding life-experience with equal measures of trauma and understanding.  Part of this harrowing path was detailed in Gloeckner's graphic-novel *A Child's Life*, and many of the gaps in that compilation are filled in with her first novel, *The Diary of a Teenage Girl*, which, though nowhere near as explicit or shocking as that first endeavor of purgation, is a fairly stressful read by itself - and an invaluable testament to the mindset of a young woman trapped in an indifferent, exploitative world, with nowhere to go but down. <br /> <br />The story, in a nutshell: Minnie Getz, age fifteen, has moved out to San Francisco with her mother and stepfather, who promptly split up right after arriving.  Her mother's boyfriend, a pathetic alcoholic by the name of Monroe, seduces Minnie, indoctrinating too early the pleasures and pain of intimacy.  The people around Minnie still swim in the more dangerous ideals of the late 60's - the `Aquarius Ethic' of free love, drug abuse and casual exploitation (never mind that the actual astrological Aquarius-shift won't occur until 2160) - Minnie floats among her mother's degenerate friends and paramours, and soon enough finds her own in the gutters and alleyways of South San Fran.   <br /> <br />More than anything Minnie desires, and is denied, a loving presence in her life: her mother is judgmental and jealous, her seducer/boyfriend oblivious, her sister addicted to the television and her step-father distant, communicating only by letters.  Minnie seeks solace in reading underground comics and trying her hand at the artistic craft (R. Crumb noted her talent), in exploring the turbulent waters of sexuality, and, eventually, succumbing to the pain-numbing elements available on the street corner and, more often than not, her own house: for example, her mother smokes pot in front of the kids and dates a lawyer colloquially-called `Michael Cocaine.'  The self-destructive path Minnie chooses to embark upon, in the later part of this novel, comes as no surprise; after being privy to the innermost reflections and torments of this young woman's mind, via the diary-format, one can almost see it as an inevitable conclusion, and all the more disturbing given that the events described within are based on true-life experience - and happen everyday, to hundreds of Minnies around the United States and the world at large. <br /> <br />As I mentioned above, this book is somewhat `softer' in approach to the borderline-pornographic *A Child's Life*, but the subject matter contained still holds enough power to upset and/or titillate, given the individual reader's mindset.  Indeed, despite some post-authorial doctoring, the text reads very much like the day-to-day scribbles of an (a)typical young woman fighting through the normal difficulties of the teenage era: the complications of relationships, the insecurities regarding the physical shell, mundane events and random digressions, the angst of trying to `find' oneself while inundated with the confusing messages of consumer-culture.  It feels ~real~.  And probably is.  Gloekner's artwork helps chronicle the passage: illustrations range from `cute' design work, to initial stabs at talent-development; from a surreal portrait of Mexican-clad cats to a startling examination of her and Monroe's post-coitus arguments.  At key points the narrative switches from written word to comic-form progression - an effective technique that gives a face to the events and characters. <br /> <br />*The Diary of a TeenageGirl* - a profound, riveting account of feminine development, of human nature in its myriad sordid forms, and of catharsis - the ending being especially powerful.  This is a disturbing read, yet ultimately illuminating; and, I think, essential to anyone seeking insight into the trials and turmoil that afflict the (psychologically) abandoned.   <br /> <br />Highly Recommended.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-22
US	52459466	R18G095X2BB5AA	0879518871	369580815	Mahler: A Biography	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Remembering the Titan	In the `Recommendations' chapter at the end of this biography, Jonathan Carr admits that more than 2500 books and essays have been published about the life and music of Gustav Mahler.  \\"Keeping abreast of Mahler literature and recordings is no job for the faint-hearted (or impecunious),\\" the author states, and it can be conjectured, with so much available research, what need have we for yet another history of the composer? Yet Carr, a devoted fan for some forty years, has a deep-seated desire to shake up and disrupt the ever-expanding mythology surrounding Mahler, to counteract the long-held assumptions about the composer's life, creative output and reputation.  Drawing upon unpublished letters, diaries, scores and other material unavailable in English, Carr focuses his scholarly scalpel upon the last decade of Mahler's life, contesting the perception of the man as a sickly, impotent tyrant, superstitious of death and therein obsessed; an account given by Mahler's widow, Alma, whom Carr - between the lines, and sometimes outright - sketches as a foolish young woman, alternately consumed with contempt, respect and jealousy for her husband, who distorted the record in order to protect her ego and enhance her own role in Mahler's tumultuous career.  This autobiography, despite its sometime lurid, gossipy tone, does an effective job of re-examining the composer's lifework, and the legacy he imposed upon the 20th century.      Gustav Mahler (1860-1911) is today firmly situated among the pantheon of the Romantic Era, but during his time the composer was a figure of mixed admiration, ridicule and indifference, especially in regard to his own music, which polarized opinion then, as now.  Audiences applauded his normal conducting for its passion and control, but struggled to comprehend the symphonies that, with their grandeur and attention-demanding length, often left listeners feeling elated or exhausted, with little compromise between the two.  Constantly tinkering with the rules, Mahler fused profundity and banality, classical technique and rustic folk-strains, seriousness and parody - sometimes at abrupt transition - and his tonal writing predicted and inspired the revolutionary dissonant triumvirate of Shonberg, Weber and Alban Berg.  Moreover, Mahler was a philosopher, and in his compositions ever approached the contrast of life, in all its seasons of happiness and despair: \\"Why do we live? For what do we struggle?\\"  Heady stuff, all in all, and rather dense for the 19th century: Leonard Bernstein once suggested that Mahler could only be truly appreciated by a more experienced audience, one whom, having endured the cataclysmic clash of two World Wars, could then find the pain and rage, the gentle whisper and the thunderous retort, as apt testament to the storms of modern existence.    Jonathan Carr disputes the popular notion that Mahler was unappreciated, displaying much evidence to the contrary. Celebrated as a conductor, Mahler was in constant demand for the last twelve years of his life, in Europe and abroad: his renditions of Wagner were often hailed as sublime, and by all accounts he left his family with a substantial amount of money.  And even though his symphonies were largely the target of critical scorn and/or misrepresentation, Carr notes that more than 200 performances were staged during Mahler's lifetime; and the influence he would have upon the next generation, ranging from Stravinsky to Vaughn Williams, is incalculable.    To reach the heights, however, Mahler had to fight tooth, nail and claw, and occasionally fail.  A target of anti-Semitism, Mahler renounced his Jewish faith and was baptized in a cunning maneuver to gain the Vienna Opera's top director post.  His battles with his orchestras are the stuff of legend: Mahler had a short fuse and could not abide anything less than the absolute best: his reputation preceded him as a fiery perfectionist, quick to replace unsuitable players, given to pubic tongue-lashings of the errant.  Carr recounts all of this, following the composer from his humble origins, through the upward crawl to fame and fortune, to the summit of his creative powers and, conversely, his greatest sufferings.  For the biographer has a gimlet eye toward the figure of Alma Schindler, Mahler's wife and unlikely muse, and though Carr tries to attain unbiased accounting, his partiality is keen and occasionally transparent.  It is obvious the two were not really suited for each other - besides the twenty-year difference between them, Alma admitted to Mahler that she did not like his music, while he in turn forbade her from composing, claiming there could only be one artist in the family.  After his death, Alma compiled her letters and diaries and wrote a `definitive' account of her husband, doctoring passages that were not flattering to her, and making many mistakes on particulars. Carr goes to great lengths to show the inconsistencies and flat-out falsities that exist in her portrayal.      Certain lurid elements, such as Alma's affair while Mahler was dying of heart disease and his tortured response, are made prominent in the text: and although this in-depth examination of their relationship is interesting, it ultimately reads a bit superficial.  Carr attempts to show how the events of this decade influenced Mahler's late-period symphonies, but therein, the music suffers: the later symphonies are given sketchy and arbitrary coverage.  Carr expends nearly twenty pages on the subject of Das Lied Der Erde and barely a page and a half on the eighth symphony, so-called 'Symphony of a Thousand', which Carr simply dismisses, claiming Mahler utilized the wrong part of Goethe's *Faust* and thus crippled the dramatic tension of his work (!!). The Seventh and Ninth are similarly neglected, while symphonies 1-5 are adequately covered and, such as the case of the Third, given a good deal of attention.    This book serves its purpose as an introduction to Gustav Mahler, titan of the Romantic Era.  However, the uneven coverage of his work and the faint tabloid aura permeating the later passages force me to dock a star.  A good start - for a deeper examination, I recommend *The Mahler Companion*.	2005-01-20
US	52459466	R2KDKEAVZYF8BZ	1563898446	331222438	Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again	Books	1	59	84	N	N	A Bizarre, Disappointing Rehash	One and a half stars, to be fair.  *The Dark Knight Strikes Again* does contain some promising passages and, at the very least, is an experimental turn for Frank Miller concerning the evolution of his artwork.  But as a whole this book is a massive disappointment, suffering from a re-iteration of themes already fully developed by its predecessor, an often sloppy and quite bizarre approach to the visuals, and the overall impression of a loosely coagulated collection of ideas churned out to sell - for this graphic novel adds nothing to the re-inventive mythos Miller helped pioneer in *The Dark Knight Returns:* if anything, *TDKSA* is a baffling stain upon that magnificent vision.     Now, I should admit that the DC universe never held much appeal for me - `Make Mine Marvel' was the slogan I adhered to in my early-teen comic collecting (late 80's) - so take the following words with a grain of salt.  To wit: DC's collection of hoary uber-heroes and melodramatic visual sense, coupled with a lengthy, confusing and not-at-all consistent history, crossed my threshold of pulp-endurance, even as a pubescent wish-fulfillment consumer.  The more realistic xenophobe motifs of the X-men (Claremont-era) and the psychological Jeckle-and-Hyde persona of the Hulk easily put the shallow dichotomy of Clark Kent/Superman to shame - utilizing constant McGuffins to give conflict to an immortal cheapens the overall construct and tellingly reveals the inherent weakness of the `power-gamer' ideal.  But Batman, despite his somewhat ridiculous costume, was the obvious exception to DC's horde of peacocks and powermongers - lacking alien DNA or divine intervention, Bruce Wayne was forced to rely only on skill and smarts to conquer his opponents; and, most importantly, he was driven by demons that could never truly be appeased.  Batman was, to me, the Genzu-edged outcast to Superman's butter knife ubiquity, the Dark Knight of palpable angst.      Thus was I attracted to Frank Miller's revision ofthis classic superhero in *The Dark Knight Returns,* a book true-to-form to the character's history, yet startlingly modern, with comments on late-80's Reagan-spin and the general aura of paranoia and excess that dominated that decade.  Moreover it was powerfully written and drafted, and rightfully became an instant classic of illustrated literature.  It still holds up today.  So when I (belatedly) learned of this follow-up, *The Dark Knight Strikes Again,* I purchased it without consulting the current opinion-bank of the internet - to my regret.     *TDKSA* starts promisingly.  A welter of images crowd the first couple pages, with Batman narrating the decline of world affairs while media-memes ply to consumer needs and totalitarian slogans are announced from the current Head of State.  \\"Where are our heroes?\\" Jimmy Olsen nervously demands, addressing the prevalent concern of our 21st century mass-consciousness.  Yes, promising stuff - but the decline begins almost immediately after, and I pinpoint the artwork as its cause.  Miller employs a neo-manga garnish to his typical artistic technique, and the affectation of it gives the book, as a whole, a distancing effect; it's surreal and occasionally beautiful stuff, taken individually, but the overall impression is one of detachment - of the reader being consciously and constantly removed from the action and events and, eventually, the underlying storyarc.      It doesn't help that, as the graphic novel progresses, the feeling of `been there, done that' increases exponentially.  Miller ended *The Dark Knight Returns* on a graceful, poignant note, a near-perfect conclusion to the lifework of Bruce Wayne.  In *TDKSA* we are presented with the same conflicts, the same struggles and character-arcs, and the whole affair begins to reek of a rehashing - and a vastly inferior rehash at that.  Batman fights Superman again.  Batman battles the bitter draught of time, so as to complete his mission.  The earth's champions are persecuted/blackmailed into helping the devious antagonists.  All of this was done before, and better.   Moreover, Batman's general absence in favor of the whole DC titan-squad (Wonder Woman, the Flash, Shazam etc.) limits any growth or insight into the central figure supposedly driving the plot; perhaps this is a good thing, as Miller seems incapable of exploring or expanding Batman's psyche in the few panels where he does make an appearance.  It can be argued that the author doesn't need to, for he did a more than proficient job in the first volume, but this leaves us with the inescapable realization that, since it was done so well in the original story, why does there need to be a sequel at all? (...Aside from the obvious monetary benefit).     I'm borderline on the artistic approach, as well.  The computer-assisted background design is interesting and generally successful, and the inking is some of Lynn Varley's best work to date, but often it feels like candy-coating a turd (please pardon the grotesque metaphor) - Millar's draftsmanship comes off sloppy and hurried, worse even than the direst passages of *Ronin.*  And the delicate juxtaposition between manga surrealism and detail-oriented panels is shaky at best and jarring more often than not.       Finally, and most damning of all, the book as a whole feels skin-deep.  A number of interesting themes are introduced, usually off-the-cuff, and abandoned in a likewise manner - a frustrating flaw that, when put in context to the bizarrely unsuccessful artwork and general rehashing of *The Dark Knight*, make this the least of Frank Miller's oeuvre to date.      Fans of the original should avoid at all cost - especially considering the $20 charged for this uninspired mediocrity.	2005-01-16
US	52459466	R2KB7YE8PE2PI	073510171X	46715813	The Worm Ouroboros	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Immortal Coil: A Mythos of Hallucinatory Puissance	I must state, before I commence with my critique, that the reviewers on this product-page eagerly betray the peculiar spell *The Worm Ouroboros* weaves upon the casual reader.  It emerges in nearly every opinion: spurts of bubbly exuberance: pure _passion_, for life, for the art that contains it; passion mainlined directly from author unto participant.  And I too felt this sublime ardor seep forth, from printed page to brain and body, as the adventures of Lord Juss and co. enraptured my senses and took me elsewhere, as only the grandest epics can do - to a place of wondrous lands and astonishing vistas, of stalwart heroes and beautiful damsels, of villains extraordinaire and fell monstrosities birthed in the deepest pits of Hell.  For within this text is buried the very lodestone of fantasy fiction - an invented mythos of stunning achievement - one of the genre's seminal if oft-neglected origin-points.  It's a corker. <br /> <br />Like several others on this review page, E.R. Eddison's *The Worm Ouroboros* came into my existence at an early age, quickly made an indelible imprint, and then departed from my possession in an untimely manner.  The novel was handed down to me in the likewise manner of its nearest contemporary, *The Lord of the Rings,* as a gift from an uncle of generous nature. And thus, at the tender age of thirteen, I delved into the *Worm's* complexities and verbose hallucinatory prose, struggling yet captivated, journeying like ill-conceived Lessingham from fair Galing to the wrestling-ground upon Foliet Isles; laying frightful witness to the occult-like conjuring of Gorice XII.; finally reaching the point where Lord Juss and Brandoch Daha stormed the grim keep of Carce like re-invented avatars of Siegfried and Achilles, swords drawn to rive the strength and sinew of watery Witchland... and alas! the book was then lost to me, misplaced on the bus-ride home, if memory serves me correctly, and not to return into my possession for some fifteen years. <br /> <br />The reminiscing above should give testament to the power of *The Worm Ouroboros*.  Picking up the text after so long an absence, I remembered fondly and accurately the grandiose action described, and hungered to continue upon the wild wake of Eddison's imagination - for this tale ~lingers~, it ~haunts~.  I loathe to call it mere fantasy, and thus draw comparison to the gutter-rags of current popularity (Jordan, Brooks, the Badkind and other such ilk) - rather, this is an Epic, right at home on my bookshelf with the Illiad & Odyssey, the Aeneid, Volsungsaga, Nibelungenlied...and LotR.   <br /> <br />A devoted scholar of Norse and Icelandic epics, Eddison shaped his own personal mythos in the early 1920's, a full decade before the arrival of Professor Tolkien's fantastical exegesis/extension; and the influence of his saga-study is obvious.  Pure archetypes exist in the *Worm*: heroes of impeccable bearing and action; villains of the lowest activity and murderous rapacity; unclimbable mountains and impossible beasts; regions of vivid beauty and divine haunt, coupled with dark domains utterly \\"alien and sinister,\\" to paraphrase fellow-Inkling C.S. Lewis.  The prose is as extravagant as the settings.  Much has been made of Eddison's Elizabethan word-forge, and understandably: by today's standards, the *Worm* glowers with prose so purple it often escapes that sphere of the color-wheel, becoming positively violet.   <br /> <br />An example of a tamer passage: <br /> <br />\\"Midsummer night, ambrosial, starry-kirtled, walked on the sea, as the ship that brought the Demons home drew nigh to her journey's end...Smoothly they had passage through that charmed night, where winds were hushed asleep and nought was heard save the waves talking beneath the bows of the ship, the lilting changeless song of the steersmen, and the creak, dip, and swash of oars keeping time to this singing.\\" (Chapter VIII) <br /> <br />And a more evocative: <br /> <br />\\"Suddenly a window opened in the clouds to a space of clean wan wind-swept sky high above the shaggy hills.  Surely Juss caught his breath in that moment, to see those deathless ones where they shone pavilioned in the pellucid air, far, vast, and lonely, most like to the creatures of unascended heaven, of wind and fire all compact, too pure to have aught the gross elements of earth and water.  It was as if the rose-red light of sundown had been frozen to crystal and these hewn from it to abide to everlasting, strong and unchangeable amid the welter of earthborn mists below and the tumultuous sky above them. (etc.)\\" (Chapter XII) <br /> <br />There are flaws.  Eddison opened his epic with a clumsy `narrator's dream' device, the better to initiate readers into his tale.  Amusingly, Lessingham the astral-wanderer disappears entirely from the text by chapter three.  The various races draw an initial pause, as well: this is the first and probably only fantasy in existence in which the heroes are called Demons! Additionally, some of the names are really quite over the top. But these minor eccentricies, along with the heady, intoxicating prose, make *the Worm* all the more invaluable, and unique: these elements would never survive today's market atmosphere of bookseller-space focus, committee-editing and prefabricated hype. <br /> <br />And the ending...! Ye Gods! Not to spoil it for prospective initiates (though reviewers below do so; beware) - I found it entirely appropriate to the archetypical roles of the lead characters, and it works on more levels, I think, than Eddison intended.  For not only are we given a conclusion fitting to the hardy mythos of Norse Valhalla, and a delightful post-modern twist therein; but a stern reminder that men of war and adventure are never quite satisfied with peace and contentment - an imperative insight in these tryingly chaotic times. <br /> <br />A feast of imagination - the Serpentine Saga - the Worm Ouroboros, its immortal coil wound through heaven and earth.  This is an essential text for scholars of myth and the fantasy genre.   <br /> <br />Highest Recommendation	2005-01-14
US	52459466	R29A4XKVQ9P57B	1569715025	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 1: Assassin's Road	Books	4	45	45	N	N	Enter Meifumado: Nine Steps on the Road to Hell	The concept of Lone Wolf and Cub is, in a word, fascinating.  A stoic Ronin wanders the countryside of ancient Japan, carting his small child in a vessel that more than meets the eye, with a banner to advertise: `son for hire, sword for hire.'  Over mountains and through cities he travels, offering his unique services to those needy - and to those who can pay.  The legend of Ogami Itto and his precocious son Daigoro spreads far and wide; he gives hope to the desperate, vengeance for the bereft, a chance of rogue justice in an unbalanced society.  And more: LW&C walk the path of meifumado, the Buddhist hell of demons and damnation, to achieve a private vendetta: to lay rest to the tragedy that has set father and son upon the assassin's road - a dastardly deed only hinted at in this first volume.      Until Dark Horse decided to publish the entire series in 2000, Lone Wolf and Cub had existed beforehand as a manga-mythos of the Far-East - extremely popular in its Nippon homeland, where it begun serialization in 1970 and continued for many years, spawning six films and critical acclaim in its wake; but published sporadically and incomplete on western shores.  Dark Horse's commitment to the series was an audacious one - the story spanned some 28 volumes, an expensive investment for publisher and readership alike - but the end result was, to me and other scholars of Eastern culture, invaluable.  For LW&C not only entertains with its blend of samurai-noir and vicious sword-play, it educates on the finer points of Japanese culture, as it existed in the Tokugawa era, and displays vividly the struggle of existence, from lowly peasants to the most upright nobility.  LW&C is an Epic, and one of the finest I've chanced to read.    `The Assassin's Road' sets the tone of the series: small self-contained vignettes concerning the adventures of Ogami Itto and Daigoro, usually-but not always-concerning the grisly reality of their occupation.  Intertwined are digressions into mattersof Bushido, Buddhism and other aspects of Japanese society; and, sprinkled throughout, the larger and eventually more encompassing storyarc of LW&C's feud with the shadow-family of the Yagyu, `official' assassins of the Shogun.  I have to admit that, structurally, the Ogami vs. Yagtu storyline is the most compelling aspect to the series, at least initially: and it comes in such rare intervals early on in the series that one continually hungers for more information, more contact with the central conflict...and yet, the minor storytelling is just as potent, if not more so - for here we are given insight into Ogami Itto's character, and that of his son; here we are exposed to the personalities, petty conflicts and personal struggle of Japanese history - and Japanese character.      This volume contains nine stories, nine steps for Ogami Itto and his son on their thousand-mile journey to meifumado...and beyond.    1) Son for Hire, Sword for Hire - the opening tale for the entire epic.  Ogami Itto enters the *shima* (death-zone) to take down a scheming politician.  A fitting, if mysterious, introduction to the characters and overall style of the manga.    2) A Father knows his Child's Heart, as only a Child can know his Father's: The relationship between father and son is explored in this short tale of deception and retribution; the concept of meifumado is given, and a deeper framework to LW&C's actions hinted at.  Contains sexual content - gratuitous to western eyes; but not, I think, to those of the east, considering how *some* manga are...different cultures, different standards.    3) From North to South, from West to East - LW&C are hired to assassinate a vassal before he is taken to Edo for torture and confession.  A decent story made valuable for its explanation of Shogun politics.       4) Baby Cart on the River Styx - the corruption of small town officials, and what lengths they will go to protect their malifecience, is at the heart of this tale.  One begins to perceive Ogami Itto as not just a scruffy assassin, but a man concerned with honor and justice.    5) Suio School Zanbato - Daigoro `accidentally' urinates upon the head of a passing nobleman, who subsequently challenges the Lone Wolf to single combat.  Like most of vol. 1, this story serves the purpose of exploring who and what LW&C are: Ogami's sword-style - and the lengths in which he will use his son as accomplice.    6) Waiting for the Rains - Daigoro meets a sick woman at a shrine; it is revealed that she was used by a shinobi (ninja) to help discredit her family house.  Ogami Itto waits in the shadows, confident that the guilty ninja will return for his abandoned lover...    7) Eight Gates of Deceit - LW&C travel to a remote mountain village, only to find the inhabitants slaughtered, his contract void, and eight female warriors hunting for wolf's blood.  A rousing action tale with a philosophic conclusion.    8) Wings to the Bird, Fangs to the Beast - my second favorite in this compilation.  LW&C travel to a hot springs for rest and relaxation.  A gang of bandits has occupied the town, however, and they take Ogami Itto prisoner.  At the end of this story, we are given a vital clue into the history of LW&C, which leads directly into...    9) The Assassin's Road - a flashback sequence shows us (some) of the events that led LW&C onto the assassin's road.  The evolution of Daigoro throughout the series is its emotional keystone, at once riveting and heartbreaking.    LW&C vol. 1 - `The Assassin's Road' does an admirable job of setting forward the characters and conflicts that shall dominate the Epic as a whole, but on its own, it is perhaps the least of the twenty-eight volumes.  The art, storytelling, and language translation all improve with successive volumes.  The last two stories alone make this compilation worth the price, however, and I whole-heartedly recommend Lone Wolf and Cub to both manga-enthusiasts and those curious about Japanese history.Lone Wolf and Cub to both manga-enthusiasts and those curious about Japanese history.	2005-01-10
US	52459466	RT0JTJR9J6CSW	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Mightier than the Sword: A Remarkable Tell-All Transcript	The reign of Emperor Justinian (r. 527 - 565 A.D.) can be rightfully viewed as a sort of last-gasp greatness for the decrepit Roman Empire, by this point a scattershot ghost of its former self.  Justinian is a renown figure in this era, a titan: he begged off the barbarians with many a-bribe, and thus thrived; he began silk production (stealing the secrets from China); he erected magnificent buildings and edifices, one of which is now declaired to be a lost `Wonder of the World.'  Most predominately, he put scholars to work on a new law-code; this well-organized legal code, set in twelve volumes, became the basis from which European law sprung.     It is interesting to see how history depicts Justinian.  In Asimov's Chronology of the World, the science-fiction author states: \\"...Justinian I (482-565), sometimes called `Justinian the Great.'  He was forceful and intelligent, and his wife, Theodora (500-548), of lowly origin, was even more forceful and intelligent...\\" and goes on to list the varied accomplishments of the era, hinting between the lines that all was not utopian - a brief passage that some 30,000 people were slain in a riot involving horse racing, and a concluding statement that, as of 600 A.D., while \\"...the East Roman Empire still looked formidable on the map...it had been exhausted past the possibility of any new expansive adventures.\\"    For a slightly more askew glance at the reign of Justinian and his consort Theodora, Procopius' *The Secret History* will readily fill in the spaces that Asimov (and most respectable historians) glaze over in light of the Emperor's many accomplishments.  Procopius, a secretary, legal advisor and (eventually) Prefect of the City for Constantinople, chronicled these public accomplishments in voluminous detail in his *Histories* and *Buildings*.  Perhaps chaffing from a personal slight, or perhaps disgusted by the corruption he saw day-in, day-out, he scribed *The Secret History* as counterpoint to these technical, borderline-fawning texts, exposing the mindboggling vice the Emperor and his court delighted in.  Another reviewer on this page describes Procopius as \\"the Kitty Kelly of Byzantine,\\" and I have to admit that this is a clever catch-phrase; yet unlike Kelly, Procopius wrote his History not for profit, or fame, as public knowledge of this work would have had him killed in a very painful manner: Procopius claims, at the beginning, that he set these deeds down for the sake of posterity.  And in this case, the Pen proved to be far mightier than the Sword - the *Secret Histories* have endured fifteen hundred years to paint a disturbing portrait of greed, avarice, contempt for human life and crazed ambition; to give us warning, in this modern era, of how far a man might go when he is exempt from consequence.    Whereas Asimov cloaks any deviant possibility of Justinian and Theodora with his \\"strong, forceful\\" remark, Procopius goes straight for the heart of the matter, at least as a Christian of that era would see it: he claims Justinian not a human being, but rather a demonic being having taken mortal flesh (and Theodora, an ex-prostitute of incredible licentious ability, is considered the same): \\"...I, like most of my contemporaries, never once felt that these were two human beings: they were a pair of blood-thirsty demons and what poets call `plaguers of mortal men.'  For they plotted together to find the easiest and swiftest means of destroying all races of men and all their works, assumed human shape, became man-demons, and in this way convulsed the world...(etc.) [pg. 102].\\"  Procopius hammers this point of his again and again throughout the text - spoken tellingly through the chapter-titles (`The Destruction Wrought by a Demon-Emperor'; `Everyone and Everything Sacrificed to the Emperor's Greed') - even to the point of redundancy, though I must admit he never lacks in ways of expressing it interestingly.  Certainly some horrific amusement can be found in the apocryphal examples he provides to prove his point.  One story in particular comes across vividly: a senator, while feasting and conversing with the Emperor, turns around to see Justinian's face sudden melt into a vague, sinister visage (!) - necro-fantasy of chilling execution.  Even more chilling, however, is when Procopius details the methods in which Justinian and Theodora robbed their citizens: trumped up charges to condemn and execute a victim, then a forged will to confiscate property, over and over and over...and most of this money either going to bribe the eastern tribes crouched on the borders, or to erect the fabulous architecture Justinian is famed for.  Along with these schemes, Procopius also relates the soap-opera shenanigans of Theodora and her many suitors; the pathetic persona of general Belisarius, brilliant in war yet utterly whipped by his wife; and the disintegration of the Empire's structural illusions of law and justice as the inhabitants follow their leader's stead in corrupt behavior.    How much *The Secret History* can be taken at face value is, of course, impossible, given the fact that it may indeed be a grudge-work, and/or corrupted over various translations.  But given the fact that, according to conservative estimates, some _one hundred million_ people died during this reign (Procopius claims a million million!) in itself speaks rather tellingly.  Let's ponder that number for a moment - essentially, Justinian's count is equal to Mao, Stalin, Ide Aman and Pol Pot combined! Byzantine lost its temporary grace soon after Justinian's death, with Persians, Avars, Muslims attacking not long after (the advent of Greek Fire being Constantinople's saving grace in the latter invasion); the Empire survived, in various incarnations, for another thousand years, but never really regained its pre-eminence in world affairs.   Procopius's *The Secret History* can, in many ways, be seen as the final depiction of an Empire at its utmost decline, utterly unaware ofthe vicious tides surrounding; and is a great companion piece to Gibbon's *Decline and Fall*, or just by itself for entertainment and eye-opening examples _ad nauseam_ of regal reprobation.  Essential!	2005-01-04
US	52459466	RGELOTZDB81BS	0140187537	999720718	The Winter of Our Discontent (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Steinbeck's Final Masterwork	Published in 1961, a mere year before Steinbeck received the Nobel Prize for Literature, *The Winter of Our Discontent* is the culmination and thematic summation of a Great American Author, the resultant craft of a man who, over the course of his career, concerned himself with the American Ideal and the American Reality, despaired at stagnancy and loss of character, and ever fought the rising forces of material obsession and moral capitulation; it is a masterwork, albeit a slow-going and rather depressing one at that.  Steinbeck would never again produce a novel of this scope and social-penetration, nor need he try: along with *Grapes*, *Eden*, and a few other contestable entries, the man had made his mark upon the literary zeitgeist: with *Winter*, he had fulfilled his promise ten-fold, delivering a powerful fable of loss, despair and (potential) redemption.<br /><br />Ethan Hawley is a deeply troubled man.  A Harvard graduate and veteran, he has settled for the path of (dis)contented mediocrity.  Forced to work as a clerk in the store his father owned - and lost, due to shady speculations during World War II - Ethan continually ruminates inwardly on the past, the present, and the rather-dim looking future; he is haunted by the daunting specters of his wild, whale-hunting ancestors, an imposing legacy he feels inadequate to challenge; he endures beneath the crushing weight of perceived - and socially imposed - *failure*.  The ghosts of the ancestral dynasty are ever on his mind, while the concerns of his immediate family threaten his strongly-inlaid yet increasingly fragile moral bedrock - for his wife and children resent the poverty of the Hawley misfortune, the wife constantly giving subtle hints as to her personal shame, unable to \\"hold her head up high;\\" and the children, pining for the creature-comforts the productive 50's began to bestow (a television, new car, etc.), which the lack of solvency denies them, begin to slide into pubescent angst and experiment with the relative-morality ethic seemingly prevalent everywhere beyond the Hawley domain.<br /><br />In a sense (as several of the negative reviews on this page have pointed out), one feels Steinbeck has crafted a too-perfect foil in Ethan: he is almost *too* good, *too* straight-laced, and thus a rather `easy' contrast to the various corrupting forces the author perceived in the United States - and wished to combat, via the artistic craft.  And yet, and yet... there is more than enough psychological meat in the text to justify the technique. Ethan's character is complex, and complexly drawn - the reader is given the clues, well early on, that the seed of temptation actively writhes to undermine the protagonist's staunch moral code; the presentation of such is done in a way both obvious and yet subtle, for we know what will happen but wonder (and hope) that events might force these carefully-laid plans awry.  Nearly the entire novel can be thus seen as a slow, achingly certain capitulation of the primeval American standard - that is, honesty and self-reliance, coupled with integrity - and the key, then, is in making the main character likable and sympathetic in his torment.  And Steinbeck succeeds marvelously, not only in Ethan but in those around him, who alternatively tempt, encourage, repress: Mary Hawley, the loving yet anxious wife; his son Allen, already succumbing to the irresistible forces of corruption; bank-manager Baker, epitome of fat-cat syndrome; Danny, the childhood friend-turned-alcoholic wastrel; and Margie, the most vivacious and vividly-drawn, the fallen-woman & town comfort, grown desperate as the years march on... Steinbeck has the way, as with all masters of word-smithy, to fashion a character within the space of a few lines, and make them seem *real*: someone you've seen before, or perhaps known intimately.<br /><br />Again, I stress that *Winter* is not an easy read: the phrasing is deliberate and dirge-like, alternatively evocative and experimental (~while avoiding the excess of stream-of-consciousness); the atmosphere of New Bayton - and Ethan's inward ponderings - is gloomily suppressive, a miasma of failure, discontent, addiction and existential angst.  Even as the time-table of the novel enters into spring, then summer, the cold shadow of *Winter's* desolate, desperate themes linger on.  No, not an easy read - but, in passages, a beautiful one, and well worth the effort undergone.  It is Steinbeck's final masterwork, a thousand-year gaze penetrating the cozy illusions of the fifties and accurately predicting the turmoil of the upcoming Aquarius decade.<br /><br />Five Stars.iding the excess of stream-of-consciousness); the atmosphere of New Bayton - and Ethan's inward ponderings - is gloomily suppressive, a miasma of failure, discontent, addiction and existential angst.  Even as the time-table of the novel enters into spring, then summer, the cold shadow of *Winter's* desolate, desperate themes linger on.  No, not an easy read - but, in passages, a beautiful one, and well worth the effort undergone.  It is Steinbeck's final masterwork, a thousand-year gaze penetrating the cozy illusions of the fifties and accurately predicting the turmoil of the upcoming Aquarius decade.    Five Stars.	2005-01-04
US	52459466	R15SVCFQJPN96A	159307218X	648860971	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 13: Mirror of the Soul	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Reunions, Revelations, Repercussions: The Climax Nears	Blade of the Immortal, in brief summery:    Think it would be great to live forever? Manji, a ronin of eighteenth century Japan, doesn't agree.  Cursed to immortal life for prior misdeeds, he must dispatch a thousand evil men to the judgment of the Buddha in order to die himself.  Joining a young girl on her quest for vengeance against the rebellious Itto-Ryu sword school, Manji soon has dire need for his twelve blades as he faces a motley assortment of hardened warriors, prostitutes, psychopaths and philosophers.  The thousand-man requirement is met by the painful stroke of give-and-take, and is told in a fashion that puts most modern epics to shame.    Throughout what I like to call BotI's `second phase' (graphic novels #6-#14), the story-arc has gradually moved away from the adventures of the immortal rascal Manji and focused more and more upon the 22-year old sword-genius Anotsu Kagehisa.  A revolutionary leader of Edo-period Japan - \\"the pillar upon which a thousand men stand\\" - Anotsu has dealt some major suffering in his bid to unify the disparate sword-schools of the samurai; the karmic repercussions begin to unfold in this, the thirteenth BotI volume released on U.S. shores.       (warning: spoilers follow)    *Mirror of the Soul* contains two major reunions for long-term readers.  The first occurs when Anotsu, returning to Edo after his `vacation' at the Shingyoto dojo, happens upon an unconscious girl sprawled upon Mt. Hakusan.  After tending to her condition, he is shocked to discover that the girl is Rin Asano, whom he orphaned some two years previous during the Itto-Ryu's initial insurgent rampage.  During that time Rin has honed her warrior-skills with the whetstone of hatred: along with Manji, she's reduced the Itto-Ryu's army by a good dozen and tracked its leader's path all the way to Kaga.  Yet other swordsmen are questing Anotsu's blood on this fine autumn day.  Over the course of the entire series the reader has been told, again and again, how dangerous Kagehisa-domo is: in *Mirror of the Soul* we are finally given graphic display of this ability when he takes on four hooded assassins and manages to completely slaughter these opponents without even breaking a sweat.  For Anotsu, no sword can cross the path of ambition: \\"Those who face me, knowing my name, take up arms against the thousand followers bound to me.  You interfere with my grandfather's dream and block my own path to the future.  And so - feel the weight of my blade! Scatter like leaves on the wind!\\"  But the only thing scattered here are severed limbs and decapitated heads...    The second reunion involves the return of Makie Otono-tachibana, an ex-prostitute and the deadliest woman in Japan.  Last seen in BotI vol. 3, *Dreamsong,*  Makie has abandoned the way of the sword for a quiet, peaceful existence in the Kaga mountains, weaving travel-mats for merchants and smoking opium to dull the pain of her tragic past.  The past will not relent, however: ghosts haunt her memories, and former lover Anotsu cannot tolerate to see natural talent go to waste.    *Mirror of the Soul* is a pivotal volume in Blade's second-phase storyarc.  Alongside the significance of these two reunions, Anotsu also discovers that he had been betrayed by the Shogun's bakufu; he is forced to flee into the backcountry of Kaga, injured and increasingly ill, while revenge-seeking students hunt for his head and Rin Asano doggedly follows his step, waiting for her own chance to avenge her slain parents.  The threads developed in *Mirror* will explode in the next BotI volume, *Last Blood,* wherein old friends and bitter enemies shall dance to the song of steel, fighting for honor, for revenge; for the past and the future; for love and the ruin thereof.  In other words, it's an all-out brawl between the Itto-Ryu and the Shingyoto-Ryu, with a certain wisecracking immortal thrown in the mix for good measure.     An essential chapter in the Blade of the Immortal saga, *Mirror of theSoul* comes with my highest recommendations.  Five Stars.    Additional Note: In my observation, there are roughly three storyarc `phases' to Blade of the Immortal.  The first phase (graphic novels #1-#5) focuses on Manji and Rin as they wander around Edo [ancient Tokyo], hunting members of the Itto-Ryu.  The second phase (graphic novels #6-#14), introduces a host of new characters and complications into the main storyline, with increasing focus on the political ramifications and emotional trauma of Anotsu's revolution.  The third phase is the ongoing `prison' story-arc, currently being published in Japan: a perusal of import bookshops on the `Net should gain the diligent reader access to the four (untranslated) graphic novels currently in print.  Cautious calculations estimate Blade of the Immortal could run up to 20+ English volumes before the story is finished!	2004-09-30
US	52459466	RD99AXT0H1GSO	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	7	15	N	N	Ka is a Wheel	When, during the early summer of 1999, news came to me of Stephen King's accident and his critical intensive-care status, my initial reaction emerged like a prescient thunderbolt: \\"Ah, no, no.  He predicted the Dark Tower would not reach completion, and his prediction was true.  Alas!\\"  {...paraphrased nicely, I might add, with all explicates removed.} A selfish reaction, certainly, but understandable, for I knew the man only through his creative works, the Dark Tower being my unquestionable favorite.  From the moment I finished volume one, *The Gunslinger*, way back in 1988, I pined with all the fervent desire of a thirteen year old boy for more, more, _more_: for the continuation and completion of this surreal epic, one man's stand against the prevalent forces of entropy and evil necessity.  Over and over King assured us, the oh-so-_hongry_ audience, that when the wind blew right he would resume Roland of Gilead's tale: but not to expect the final denouement to come soon, if at all.  And so I waited, ever patient with foreboding, and moved on, occasionally experiencing the battle for the Dark Tower as its chapters came forth in painstakingly slow increment.  The accident seemed to seal the fate of the series, and I was resigned: indeed, had secretly expected this to be King's *Edwin Drood*, his uncompleted *Canterbury* catharsis.  It felt, appropriately, like ka.    But King survived, and after the painful process of recovery, came to thrive. The brush with death motivated the author to shelve his lazy inclinations and finally complete his magnum opus, the keystone of his prolific oeuvre.  He set to the task with renewed vigor - and a very prominent life-trauma to draw inspiration from.  Now, with the series finished, I have to wonder: how would this epic have turned out without the Brian Smith encounter? Considering the fact that King \\"lost\\" the outline, and claims to never have truly delineated the overall dramatic/thematic arc of the series (preferring spontaneity to rigid planning), this is a query that will remain unanswered.  But as for that which did ferment and spill out from King's feverish brow:    *The Dark Tower VII* is _it_, the culmination and the climax, the peak volume we Dark Tower fiends have all been waiting for (16 years by my watch) - and does it deliver? Ho boy, does it ever.  To avoid divulging critical spoilers, I'll resort to comparisons: Volume VII combines the breathtaking action and deadly tension of Vol. II; the horror-tangents and flat-out weirdness of volume III; and the emotional rollercoaster of Vol. IV.  Indeed, there were at least three times I actually found myself with the sniffles, and I'm not a sentimental person by any means (...Ok, Ok, I have my moments).  Other reviewers were quite correct in how harsh this book is, in places: in takes hold of your heart and gives it a good wrenching.  We knew it was coming - sacrifice has been hinted at repeatedly - but still...King didn't quote Trent Reznor's `Hurt' out of whim.  Parts of this book are very, very painful.    Technically, *Vol. VII* contains some of the best writing of King's career.  I'm well aware that this statement would be held as an oxymoron to Le Acadame Elite; even King himself has referred to his work as the McDonalds of literature.  But *the Dark Tower* is the exception to the self-proclaimed rule, the filet mignon to the Big Mac, the foie gras to the `freedom fries.'  King has always been `readable,' even at his most crass and/or commercially oriented: moreover, his understanding of human psychology has often elevated his texts above the limitations of the pulp-horror genre. King's greatest talent is his feel for _character_, and in this he is often far superior to the straw men and plastic mouthpieces of the modern literati.  The very fact that *Vol. VII* flows smoothly, considering the convoluted sub-plot web that make up the saga - ideas, characters and themes spanning some 30 years - is an incredible technical feat inand of itself.     Michael Whelan returns to complete what he begun, in Vol. 1, with a series of haunting oil-painting portrayals of In-World and the Keystone World, along with sketched chapter-caps.  I advise readers to not succumb to the temptation of browsing these paintings before reading the accompanying text, as I did: spoilers abound.     As for the ending...again, resisting spoilers (but be warned from here on, in any case), I applaud Stephen King for taking the path less traveled.  An interesting subtext of obsession/addiction has run throughout the entire series, and King does not betray it at the end: those readers desiring a slam-bang wish-fulfillment conclusion of conquest and total revelation may be disappointed (or flat-out enraged, as the author predicts), but I much preferred the dual-conclusion emphasis on resumption and eventual redemption, with Robert Browning's classic poem \\"Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came\\" providing the 20th - and perhaps _last_ - incarnation of this particular `hero of a thousand faces.'    So it ends, and what an end...!  Thankya, Sai King, for the Long Days and Long Nights within your unique vision.      Five Stars.	2004-09-28
US	52459466	RRNUBPTT5T9X1	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Shattered Bodies, Shattered Ideals, or: Revolution Redux	In the essay that prefaces this publication of *Homage to Catalonia*, Lionel Trilling declares that George Orwell was \\"not a genius [...] but a figure,\\" in other words, an individual who presided over certain historical ideas and attitudes and was able to express these conceptions in a simplistic, general way, seeking and finding the truth of the matter and subsequently scribing it without undue embellishment, overt bias or brain-taxing philosophical meta-quandary - making difficult issues palpable for mass comprehension.  I cannot say I fully agree with this hypotheses, though it certainly does make for an interesting read after completing Orwell's account of the Spanish Civil War - introductions, it seems, should always be read _last_ in order to avoid spoiling the interior text - for in my definition, `genius' is one who is able to perceive, in some fasion, the patterns and cycles generally unseen by the common multitudes, even (especially) if focused on a particular path; more importantly, genius is how this perception is then channeled and reflected to the world at large, and in that regard, Orwell's ability to penetrate the pompous falsehoods and intentional ambiguities of political discourse, via hard truths and internalized experiences, especially given the chaotic era in which *Homage to Catalonia* was written: to pierce through and then pen a novel such as this, simple but oh so telling, `easy' but incredibly effective - this certainly takes a particular type of genius. All of Orwell's novels share this sort of rolled-up-sleeves ethic.  Trilling may find *Animal Farm* to be over-rated (as do I, with reservations), but as a metaphor it is one of the greatest of the first half of the 20th century - easily the most influential and public-schooled - and certainly the product of a genius perception internalized and painstakingly realized.  <br />Of course, I have the hindsight benefit of half a century, whereas Trilling wrote his essay a mere two years after Orwell's death... such is the advantage of time! Orwell makes note of this as well, concluding that his theories would either stand or fall when re-examined from afar.  Time has tested his experiences, indeed, and the breadth of clarity and caustic recognition is just as pertinent now, at the beginning of the 21st century, as it was in the late 1930's.   <br />When the Spanish Revolution broke out in 1936, the country was torn between the utopia-seeking leftist radicals/anarchists and the old-form power structure still fighting for control, allied with the notorious Generalissimo Franco and his Fascist-funded army.  Although Orwell initially traveled to Barcelona as a journalist, he was so impressed with the fact that the Spanish were fighting Fascism - something incredibly rare in that pre-WW period of European history - that he hung up his press-cap and picked up a rifle, impelled by what he called \\"common decency\\" to navely join one of the many leftist factions without a hard inquiry into the political realities of the conflict.  Luckily he did not put down his journalist's pen: after the fallout, Orwell scribed his experiences in concise, articulate form, remarkably free of the prevalent propaganda shrouding the fiasco...and that is why this book has lasted, while the forked tongues and tabulations of that period have all `withered on the vine,' so to speak.<br />*Homage to Catalonia* describes two experiences of violence: the outer violence, being Orwell's wry, almost nostalgic reflections of serving in the trenches for some five months in 1937 - coping with starvation, winter cold, boredom and the occasional pot-shot from the opposing side; and the inner violence, being his eventual disillusionment of Communism as a political ideology.  The first violence is, naturally, the most entertaining to read, with its adventures and unexpected conflicts, its hardships and absurdities all lovingly infused with Orwell's dry wit, set in stone via his very-English style, full of humility, human awareness and healthy skepticism.  The second violence is more complicated, convoluted (due to the political particulars), and both harrowing and illuminating in detail. Already a committed Socialist, Orwell was stunned and gratified to discover how, under extreme duress and remarkable isolation, his militia-sect of revolutionaries achieved, for a short time, a truly \\"utopian\\" society, Marx's theory made true: and how this was betrayed and irrevocably shattered by opposing forces, namely, the rest of the world.  Revolution was not in the interests of anyone outside of Spain, as it threatened vested interests and stability; even Stalinist Russia, so-called bastion of the left, sabotaged its red brethren with shoddy munitions and double-dealing.  After defending Spain from Fascism for month after bloody month, Orwell returned to Barcelona to find he and his fellows demonized by journalists, called \\"traitors\\" and \\"pro-Fascists,\\"  transformed in the public eye from men fighting for `common decency' to pawns maneuvered by power-brokers, via their propagandist lap-dogs, into a stalemate position.  This internal fracas climaxed with pitch battle in the streets of Barcelona; after the smoke cleared (physically, at least), all members of the radical sect, be they native or foreign, were rounded up and jailed as insurgents. Forced to flee the country in disguise, Orwell left behind the ruins of a once-potential anarchistic prosperity, but his memories of that brief, classless equality among men, amidst the bullets and bombs of confused carnage, linger tellingly in the text.<br />*Homage to Catalonia* warns us to take all information with a grain of salt, to look behind the curtain and view the puppeteer jerking the strings of those talking-head mouths - a message most important in this complex, (mis)information-glutted era.  The book also serves as a vital element in Orwell's oeuvre: *Homage* can be seen as a continuation of the Socialist ideals espoused in *Down and Out in Paris and London*, and the framework experience that inspired the allegory of *Animal Farm*.    <br />Highly recommended for enthusiasts of both history and literature.	2004-06-18
US	52459466	R3R5PHBLMG9ML7	0679733752	13290257	Forty Stories (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Fragments and Sketches of a Russian Perspective	Anton Chekhov (1860-1904) has long been acknowledged as one of Russia's greatest playwrights and short story authors, a man whose expressiveness with the pen stemmed, in great part, from the hardship of his childhood experiences and, later in life, his vast globetrotting wanderings.  Chekhov's family abandoned him at the age of sixteen to a fate somewhat close to wage-slavery; astonishingly, he later assumed complete responsibility for their indiscretions, and thereafter always faced financial difficulties.  To help supplement his income, Chekhov began writing professionally for magazines, and over the course of his life came to scribe more than two hundred short stories.  This collection, as suggested by the title, consists of forty pieces, of varying length and quality: the title is somewhat misleading, as several of these 'stories' are barely a page long and would be more aptly described as 'fragments', or, to take a cue from Turgenev, 'sketches' of Russian existence...although, in a sense, all of these stories could be described thus.  With wit, compassion and keen insightfulness, the author paints a painfully accurate portrait of the Russian character: hardy, proud, generally inconsistent and very often drunken; and Russian environment, from the fertile luxury of the Crimea to the frozen wasteland exile of Siberia, from provincial predicaments to cityscape cluster-catastrophes.  Like his contemporaries Gogol, Turgenev and Tolstoy, Chekhov wrote as he saw it, and his fiction now exists as literature - an invaluable testament of a bygone age. <br />*Forty Stories* covers Chekhov's artistic span from 1880-1903.  The progression of skill and storytelling becomes readily apparent as one ploughs deeper into the text: with the exception of Green Scythe, the first third of this book is generally underwhelming, given the author's reputation.  Many of the pieces in this section fall under the fragment banner, too small and sparse for effective insight or even basic narrative enjoyment.  From 'The Huntsman' on, however, the stories gradually gain expert polish, with wonderful descriptiveness and a strong sense of character, and the last seven or so are probably the best of the collection.  Yet I still advise one to read this from beginning to end - there are a few gems in the beginning section, and the evolution of Chekhov's technique is in itself interesting to observe.<br />An overview of some of the best stories:   <br />Green Scythe: Every summer the Princess of a certain villa at Green Scythe summons a host of gentlemen for vacation and entertainment.  One of them (the least favored by the Princess) eventually falls in love with her daughter, and the rest of the men conspire to bring the two together in holy matrimony.  <br />Sergeant Prishibeyev: The military man of the title has been drawn up before court for disturbing the peace.  Between the lines, one receives a feeling of how difficult it was for some members of the Russian military to return to a 'normal' life after the severe discipline and absolute authority of their previous incarnation; also expressed is the Sergeant's inability to cope with changing times/customs.  <br />Who is to Blame?: Using a kitten and a certain severity of 'training', Chekhov fashions a Pavlovian metaphor about how creatures are molded due to external stresses, and makes the point that the influence of this molding tends to continue long after the principle act.  <br />The Princess: This story concerns a spoiled, delusional member of the noble class (a true 'Princess,' in the derogatory sense) and her visit to a monastery for rest and recuperation.  There she encounters a doctor of her former employment, who promptly unleashes a maelstrom of resentment about her general way of life and, in particular, her callous treatment of her fellow man.  In this rant Chekov depicts the common mistreatment of serfs by their masters; the ending comes as a bit of a shock, but true to the characters of both the Princess, the doctor, and the prevalent social requirements of that time.<br />Sleepyhead: Mistreatment of servants is again examined, as is the gradual strain of sleep-depravation.  Varka the nursemaid is forced to operate without rest for days on end, tending the samovar, the fire, and most pertinent of all, the baby.  Eventually her willpower snaps, with murderous consequence...<br />Big Volodya and Little Volodya: This story begins with an interesting phenomenon: the sentimentality of alcohol, its illusionary rise and fall.  A love triangle between two worldly men (the Big and Little Volodyas) and a very silly little fool (Sonya) commences, though the husband is of course ignorant to the cuckoldry.  Sonya's character is vividly drawn: a fascinating portrait of someone despicably selfish, pathetically ignorant and ever so determined to 'purify' her indiscretions via the quick fix of prayer and Godly devotion.<br />Anna Round the Neck: A young woman uses her natural beauty to elevate herself from squalor-beginnings to the highest circles of society. Family is left on the wayside, at first unwillingly, and then with wise calculation.<br />The Lady with the Pet Dog: An aging Don Juan seduces yet another lonely wife - one more notch for the bedpost - but discovers that even the most insatiable satyr-instinct can crumble before the impulse of love...   <br />The Bride: A young woman narrowly escapes a small-town existence for the larger world; when she returns home, full of dread and nostalgic reminisce, she comes to realize that what she left behind was, in the long run, a worthy sacrifice.  <br />...<br />For those interested in Russian history of the 19th century, Anton Chekhov is a bookshelf necessity.  Despite several pieces of fragmentary fluff, *Forty Stories* is a good overview of the master's best work.   <br />Four Stars	2004-06-14
US	52459466	RXIGPX2MTOEWB	1401200133	47450097	The Filth	Books	4	76	88	N	N	The Hand Evokes	In an interview with Disinformation guru Richard Metzger, Grant Morrison claimed he had moved to Los Angeles to [sic] ''change bull{. . .} into money, turn pure thought into pure cash.''  With Hollywood's recent trend of adapting the counterculture concepts Morrison excels at (recent examples including the plethora of debased Dick, the Matrix, etc.), the transitional move - physically and artistically - of this Glasgow native to the City of Angels probably seemed fortuitous at the time.  And *The Filth* is, by all appearances, the hard(core) result of L.A.'s influence on this highly-assimilative pen-prophet: a po-mo epic of human frailty, sci-fi surrealism, over-ambition and gutter abandon, a metaphor-medicine for our junk-glutted species.  Or so it attempts, at any rate.  <br />It takes roughly ten pages for the story to erupt into utter weirdness.  Before that mark we follow the life-pattern of one Greg Feely, a cubicle serf with a peculiar taste in pornography and a co-dependant affection for his cat Tony.  One night he finds a naked black woman in his shower; he half-wittingly engages in a day-glo romp session with the vixen and Feely's ''para-personality'' is stripped away to reveal his ''true'' self, Ned Slade, a policeman - or, more technically, a garbageman - for the Hand, an underground organization which cleans up and disposes all aberrations, perversions, and social threats to the Status:Q.  Unfortunately Slade is an amnesiac: due to a severe trauma during a previous assignment, he has regressed so severely into his Feely persona that he's now forgotten the details of his existence. . . or so he is told over and over by the mysterious minions of the Hand.<br />Like the Invisibles and other media of this nature, *The Filth* benefits immensely from a re-read or three (or, as I did, read the first four issues and start over) - information is given erratically, with purposeful intent, and certain visuals/dialogue will only make sense after one has progressedwith the main text.  Overall *The Filth* reminded me strongly of a Philip K. Dick novel, or more precisely a conglomeration of the Horselover's stranger entries like *A Scanner Darkly*, *Ubik* and especially *The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldrich*; the time-distortion/control-resistance/drugs/schizo themes updated with mainstays of 21st century pulp, particularly nanotechnology and the smirking post-modern deconstruction of genre boundaries (a literal deconstruction, in this case).  Morrison is no copycat, though, and the Filth abounds with willful debauchery and overt bizarreness: a dope-smoking chimpanzee KGB assassin with a vocal distaste for human beings; nanotech I-Life existing upon a ''bonsai planet;'' brainwashed children compared to ants; and, among the more vulgar moments, a porn-star who possesses black semen of high fertility rate - a seed captured and transformed into a viral weapon by Tex Porneau, a film ''auteur'' obviously based on Max Hardcore (the most overt L.A. reference in the book, IMO).  Morrison tackles alternative dimensions, conspiracy theory, bacterial influence, identity crisis, comic-book critique (possibly a reaction to his stint on mainstream titles like X-men and JLA??), and much, much more in this kitchen-sink 13-issue series.  But the question remains: does it _work_?<br />Unfortunatly, no. . . not quite.  From a recent interview, Morrison states: ''The Filth can be seen [sic] a healing inoculation of grime.  I'm deliberately injecting the worst aspects of life into my reader's heads in small, humorous doses of metaphor and symbol, in an effort to help them survive the torrents of nastiness, horror and dirt we're all exposed to every day - especially in Western cultures, whose entertainment industries peddles a mind-numbing perverted concoction of fantasy violence and degrading sexuality while living large at the expense of the poor of other countries.''  Yeah, I agree, Grant.  However, while *The Filth* does bring up some nice points and climatic thought-caps to the wretched build-up of humanity at its nadir, Morrison neither captures the truly _worst_ aspects (censors wouldn't allow it, though any and all are easily accessible these days via the Pandora's Box that is the Net), and, more importantly, his revelations are too few, too far between, and too sparse in content to really make an effective impact.  I blame the kitchen-sink approach.  There is so much here to digest - not a bad thing in itself - but the side-tangent stuff tends to bloat and lessen the overall intent. The comic-book deconstruction elements are a good example, as they seem to me almost unnecessary. I understand what Grant was getting at here, in the metaphorical sense of perfect ideal/stasis superman vs. the corrosion of realty alongside the ''need for suffering'' drive; I just don't feel he achieved it as well as he might have in so limited a space, so crammed a vessel.  The art is nothing spectacular, either, very workmanlike and lacking most of the innovative framing and visual/symbolic depth of the *Invisibles,* although according to the author this was intentional.  <br />It's difficult not to compare *The Filth* with Morrison's past conspiracy-theory magnum opus: when done so, I'm afraid this graphic novel really does far short of the mark *The Invisibles* set. But, as an artist myself, I fully understand and support the need to grow, to take a directional change. . . at least as long as it delivers in a new and interesting way. . . and this comic certainly does that in spades.  <br />Four stars.	2004-06-02
US	52459466	R2BMA9LZXTTVUU	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Drifting Through Splendor	Or: Of Love and Loss: the Sacrifice for Gain. *Tender is the Night,* F. Scott Fitzgerald's tragic fourth novel, shimmers with palpable autobiographical pain; it is catharsis, plain as day, for the regrets and reduction of a personal life, and the era that encompassed it.  Fragmentary yet fully contained, brilliantly lucid as it describes the derailment of sanity, via incest-trauma or the alcoholic haze - *Tender is the Night* flows like a tone poem, vividly capturing the illusions and sickened foundations of its flawed protagonists, and the escapist existence in which they dwell.  Herein lay ghosts, drifting through splendor, oblivious until it is too late, and then insensate still, crippled by self-imposed restrictions: the patterns of denial, dissipation and dream-death.  <br />The novel concerns the relationship between married couple Dick and Nicole Diver, the husband a promising young psychiatrist with obscure goals about published research, the wife a fragile flower soiled early in life, the `damaged goods' he takes on to teach, heal, and subconsciously reap in turn.  At first, presented through the innocent gaze of child-actress Rosemary, the Divers seem like the quintessence of their sophisticated era: clever, classy, both elegant and subtly sensual, people so comfortable with themselves as to avoid the games and struts of the current `season.'  Young, restful, in love with each other and life in general, the Divers exhibit the ideal of the American Dream, if expatriat-ed from American soil . . . but the cracks begin to show, one by one, until the cultivated artifice is shattered and the sickness beneath exposed: the author therein chronicles the dissolution of this relationship, from beginning to end, drawing significant parallel from both his own life and the turbulent age in which he lived.  <br />*Tender is the Night*: A requiem for a dream.  Certainly the fallout with his wife Zelda influenced the novel's course; but I believe there is more to it.  F. Scott Fitzgerald, and by extension his work, was/is inescapably tied with the exuberant faade of the Jazz Era, an era defined (at least in the socialite sense) by its splendor and waste, its heedless optimism blind of cost.  And though Scott basked in the cradle of this opulent \\"season,\\" the author seething beneath the fly-by-night exterior could not help but be keenly aware of its follies and hypocrisies: his novels and short stories savagely depict the inward condemnation he felt.  But unlike earlier efforts, this, Scott's last completed novel, was composed between 1925 and 1934, and the disintegration of the roaring 20's into the dust-bowl Depression of the 30's seems to me clearly represented in the progression from *Tender's* first to third books - the illusion has crashed and there is no regaining it, despite the determined dissipative efforts contrary.  This is a personal impression, one I read between the lines; and even considering the fact that Fitz lived overseas and that the events of this novel occurred almost completely in France and Switzerland, the metaphor is quite stark - to my mind, at least.  <br />A more literal analysis, in any regard, clearly shows the price of atrophy, lost ambition and alcoholism; despite the `happy' resolution to Nicole and Dick's co-dependency, the pain of loss - on both a psychic and physical level - is harrowingly delineated.  Having recently been in the position of Dick Diver - that is, faced with the temptation of sacrificing personal goals in order to `save' another from the manic-spiral - I can sympathize with the capitulation of his dreams for more immediate concerns: genetic-inspired attraction as strong a demand as the survival-instinct drive.  Yet Nicole's rise, surmounting both the Father and the Father Figure in her quest for identity, is just as poignant.  The antagonist here is simply _weakness_, and how it can be shared to disastrous result.<br />To define the myriad qualities of *Tender is the Night* intosimplistic buzz-word recommendation: this is a haunting, occasionally stunning work, with beautifully lyrical prose and well-defined conflict, interspersed with casual insights into the urges/constructs of human reality.  All in all it's a fantastic read, and perhaps my personal favorite of F. Scott Fitzgerald's work; (...)  <br />Highly recommended.	2004-05-06
US	52459466	R23O4WJW6HGC4H	0375757902	998141222	Lost Illusions (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	A Contrast of Genius, or: Bright Lights, Big City	Alongside his current and future contemporaries, Victor Hugo and Marcel Proust, Honore de Balzac is considered to be the preeminent French author of the 19th century.  Fabulous, larger-than-life, Balzac was a man of fertile talent and extreme contrasts, whose proficiency with the pen was matched only by his prolificacy of his appetites.  A clown, a genius, a glutton and a monk: Balzac burned brightly with the Promethean Gift, and left behind an enormous body of work - some ninety-two novels - all loosely interconnected in theme and character(s).  To accomplish this, he worked manic-style from the hours of midnight to six in the morning, scribbling furiously by candlelight and swilling copious amounts of black coffee, retaining the sexual urge tantric-style while cultivating a reputation as a ladies' man and legendary great lover (. . . as I said, a man of extreme contrasts).  The eventually result of this effort is entitled Le Comedie Humaine [The Human Comedy], an almost-encyclopaedic opus that paints a relatively accurate portrait of Balzac's time and setting - a true French *milieu* - and easily compares to the output of his literary contemporaries, by way of both qualitative exertion and sheer talent.<br />*Lost Illusions* chronicles the trials and triumphs of two potential geniuses, Lucien Rubempre and David Sechard, men of steadfast friendship, common ideal and altogether differing personality.  Lucien is the handsome, debonair poet-dreamer, a wordsmith-wannabe of vast ambition and dubious moral fortitude, who envisions all existence bound up in the invisible perimeters of \\"art\\" to the exclusion of pressing realities; this leads, of course, to the misery and consternation of those of his closest intimacy.  David, in contrast, is a plain, hard working, abstract-thinking inventor, the simpleton-savant forced to endure continual ridicule and poverty as he strives to streamline certain basic elements of the printing business for the benefit of future generations.The contrasting development of these two men - for better and for worse - reveals the true path one must take (i.e. disciplined WORK), and the many temptations one should avoid (sloth, sensual over-abandonment, sham-intellectualism), in finding culmination for the burgeoning talent, in realizing and applying the genius-drive. . . at least according to Balzac's not-so-humble opinion. <br />The novel begins very much like most 19th century literature, with the first fifty or so pages devoted almost exclusively to describing the environment in which the forthcoming drama shall ensue, and in detailing the history and general character of the main participants therein.  These necessities thus scribed, Balzac launches into the narrative with his usual vigor: his technique includes a slow-boil development of tension/conflict; a scathing portrayal of the high society; reflective asides and cultural digressions; humorous episodes coupled with a smattering of violence, the latter element confined mostly to the psychological.  This structure is common to a Balzac novel, and in *Lost Illusions* it is achieved with page-turning skill; even when the pace flags, the infectious energy implicit in the text and overall construction helps to buoy the reader across Balzac's vast, oceanic theme-excursions.  <br />To be honest, *Lost Illusions* is one of those books where, paradoxically, 'the less said the better;' it is so good that, in my opinion, its delights and secret treasures should be discovered by the innocent, diligent reader - the eventual impact of the novel becoming all the greater.  But I suppose a few tidbits are necessary for this sort of review...thus:  <br />Fed up with being a tortured poet among philistines, Lucien Rebempre leaves the small-town constraints of his native Angouleme for the bright lights and big city splendor of gay Paree.  There he is quickly seduced by the glittering illusions of bourgeois society, and almost as quickly thrown down to languish amidstthe common rabble.  For some time our 'hero' pines and abstract-pontificates, juggling his dream of artistic immortality with the more immediate desire for monetary wealth/social recognition, slowly but ever-so-surely capitulating toward the fantasy-chimera of the latter. Lucien, with his flower sonnets and unfinished manuscript _An Archer of Charles IX_, begins his 'quest' as a fresh-faced, starry-eyed enthusiast of human potential; in short, a typical example of nave ambition as yet unhampered by the crushing weight of repeat-failure and/or the angst-miasma of the cynical perspective.  Lucien's eventual abandonment of the higher ideals of art for the quick fame of journalism seems almost inevitable given his unstable character, and it gives the author unrestrained motive to rant and rave, via literary form.  It is obvious that Balzac, who toiled in the fickle trade of news-shaping for some considerable time, had an axe to grind; and his blow-by-blow critique of the business - its hypocrisies, desperations, vacant platitudes and absolute corruption - is all the more affecting because it is witnessed by the demoralized, disillusioned Lucien: his 'quest' has taken him from the Elysian Fields of \\"pure\\" Glory to the sordid pits of a fraudulent Hell, a vast, soulless Perdition for the artistically condemned.  <br />Indisputably one of Balzac's finest novels, *Lost Illusions* is where the casual reader should venture after reading *Pere Goirot* and possibly *The Black Sheep*.  Balzac's characters often reappear, in some form or another, over the course of his opus: principle to this volume are the roguish personalities of Rastignac and Vautrin/Jacque Collins, both of which are introduced in *Pere Goirot*.  The former is somewhat inconsequential to the novel as a whole, but the latter arrives at a fortuitous moment, afflicts a massive change to one of the leading protagonists, and comes to dominate *Lost Illusion*'s inferior sequel, *A Harlot High and Low*.  His speechabout mankind and its necessary illusions - in itself a harrowing disillusionment to the already shattered reader-participant - culminates all of Balzac's themes, digressions, character arcs: he tells it like it is in a fashion that few authors of this era dare dream - or even conceive - of attempting. <br />Highly Recommended.	2004-03-16
US	52459466	R299K6FM0C6P45	0140442324	980351464	A Harlot High and Low (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	24	34	N	N	The Sequelitus-Sore Itches and Burns [ - ] Balzac Prevails	Like many other reviewers here at Amazon, I have a weakness for `Sequelitus.'  What is this dreadful affliction, you might ask? Well, it is the compulsion to pursue a good story to its very end - enjoying the source media so much that it is paramount to ones mental comfort to locate and devour all related material.  This can often lead to tragic result, for sequels tend, as a rule rather than as an exception, to wear thin the primary quality: the beauty and sweat-inducing power of the original diminished through needless repetition, theme-bastardization and/or the tangible fatigue of that most accursed of artistic predicaments: the necro-stench, the entropy, &lt;the horror! the horror!&gt; of author-enervation.  Nothing like a terrible case of \\"twilight of the idols\\" to put one in a despondent mood! But, in the past few years, I've managed to curtail my tendency towards indiscriminate consumption.  No more Wheel of Time for this jaded .com shopper! Get thee gone, foul Star Wars simulacra!  <br />And yet. . . and yet here I am again.  After the month-long endeavor of reading - nay, &lt;savoring&gt; - the delicious disenchantments of Honore de Balzac's *Lost Illusions,* I simply had to have the sequel post-haste.  What would be the fate of Lucian Rebempre, *Illusions'* failed poet of increasingly ignoble achievement? Who _was_ the dastardly \\"priest\\" that plucked Lucien from the liquid depths of potential-Providence? Would they together storm the snooty ranks of Parisian high society, acquiring a noble rank for Lucien, enacting revenge on all those who had scorned the poet in his previous incarnation as a mudraker and news-shaper?  I had to know.  So, barely recovered from *Lost Illusions,* I cracked open this penguin edition of *Harlot,* eager for answers, desperate for the final contentment of my shameful sequelitus itch. <br />Alas, *A Harlot High and Low* does not live up to either the reputation or the narrative force of the previous volume.  For although it shares the same techniques that have endeared this French author to my particular literary `taste' - that being a forceful Voice, a sensitive Ear, and an intuitive sense of balancing straight drama with the shamefaced attractions of its \\"melo\\"-histrionic cousin - despite these similarities in quality, *Harlot* meanders (like all Balzac) but rarely justifies its long-winded digressions; it simmers with harlot-heat, but the tensions hardly reach that particular boiling-point necessary for a cathartic climax; it is occasionally boring.  Worst of all, after a sprightly pick-up of pace and a much-enjoyed battle-of-the-(criminal)-wits climax, the ending crumples in and around itself with desultory result: the other reviewers were right in that it comes within stomping-grounds of far-reaching, ludicrous, unlikely - pick your adjective, it'll do.<br />In fact, *Harlot* is a flawed progeny in so many respects - at least in the matter of base comparison - that, for insight as to _why_, we must examine the particulars around its construction, rather than take the (oft-correct) blindsight standpoint that pere Honore must have been milking the prime components of his past masterpieces in a vainglorious attempt at renewal. . . or for *money*, that silver-grasping Judas of artistic downfall, another foul-but-certain aspect of sequelitus.  No, I believe the \\"blame\\" should be assigned elsewhere.  Perhaps it is due to the fact that this was written during Balzac's final three years, when the strain of overwork began to catch up with his physical shell: there is certainly something fatigue-ridden and world-weary to be read *between* the lines, and though Balzac masks it well, it is an inescapable impression.  Or perhaps the \\"blame\\" should be assigned to the translator - Heppenstall readily admits to having difficulties with some of the particulars of the text, and although I'm ignorant with the origin-language and thus cannot check comparatively, there seems something suspect with the balance of digression/progression, usually so keenly integrated in Balzac; it feels as if Heppenstall approached these delicate pace-issues as if he were in an automobile, chugging along, stopping every so often to put more gas in the tank, jump-starting the cranky old girl to get her going again, etc. - a rather grotesque metaphor, I admit.<br />In the end, I think it's a combination of the above theories along with the pertinent fact that Balzac wanted, initially, to just write a book about a prostitute, adding essential flavor to his social-strata opus: *Harlot* is considered part of _Scenes of Parisian Life_, and you cannot adequately delineate the sub-structures of this Gallic city-society without tackling the more sordid realities of its primal urges.  I get the feeling that Balzac introduced Lucien and Vautrin as the twin passion-pillars on which to support his poor Esther, a woman elevated from base brothel squalor to the very highest levels of concubine-existence - and Lucien and Vautrin, inscrutable rascals that they are, came to dominate the story on their own accord.  Esther simply could not compete with the satanic vigor of Jacque Collins' varied schemes . . . and in this regard, the novel itself suffers from the lack of clear-sighted predevelopment; not enough harlot for this *Harlot*! And yet Esther's passions are the only tangible _purity_ to be found from cover to cover; she is simple and true, a virgin-white canvas upon which these hypocrites and fools spurt their petty aspirations upon, and subsequently her plight is the only real tragic involvement.<br />Now, with my grievances expressed (except for one more, but I'll get to that in a moment), don't mistake my overall opinion of this novel - it frustrated me with its unevenness, but it's still a fine read in and of itself, at times entertaining, erudite and educational.  I don't regret spending the time to read/absorb all of its insights/inconsistencies.  It's just that it cannot compare favorably with its predecessor, and the end - without spoiling anything - is a remarkable cop-out as to the fate of the novel's protagonist.  I found out later, by way of the introduction, that this wily scoundrel actually makes his final-incarnation appearance in *Cousin Bette* - AGGH! I burn with the itch: Sequelitus has infected me once again!	2004-03-16
US	52459466	R3LORDF0042GHS	1569719918	983344313	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 12: Autumn Frost	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hearts of Fire, Hearts of Stone	Think it would be great to live forever? Manji, a crass ronin of eighteenth century Japan, doesn't agree.  Cursed to immortal life for prior misdeeds, he must dispatch a thousand evil men to the judgment of the Buddha in order to die himself.  Joining a young girl on her quest for vengeance against the rebellious Itto-Ryu sword school, Manji soon has dire need for his twelve blades as he faces a motley assortment of hardened warriors, psychopaths, philosophers and just plain jokers.  The thousand-man requirement is met by the painful stroke of give-and-take; and is told in a fashion that puts most modern epics to shame.<br />This, the twelfth compilation released overseas, features the return of Blade's most vicious scoundrel, Shira, a cold-eyed killer capable of unspeakable depravities. At the climax of *Heart of Darkness* (BotI vol. 7), Manji cut off Shira's right arm, putting a kink in the assassin's typical routine of butchery, whoring and all-around reprobate-behavior.  Upset but unruffled, Shira has decided that an `eye for an eye' is an adequate reparation for the loss of his arm; he intends on taking Manji's right appendage in payment and enlists three dim-witted stooges to help him ambush the lazy immortal.  But unbeknownst to Shira's death-lust maneuverings, Manji is traveling with Magatsu Taito - a former top-blade warrior of the rogue Itto-ryo sword school - who has a grudge to settle with the serial-killer. . . <br />This `love/hate-triangle' is perhaps the most desperate fight of the series so far, as Magatsu and Shira cannot resuscitate themselves a la wound-healing bloodworms.  With Manji, one always _knows_ he can survive just about any blow short of having his head chopped off; and after the violence-orgy of *The Gathering*, wherein the ronin's immorality was tested to an almost ridiculous limit, Hiroaki Samura decided to shift the conflict-emphasis to the other, `normal' characters.  In *Autumn Frost*, the duel between Magatsu and Shira quickly reaches a dangerous level of piercing-threshold and pain: the tension of the close-quarter combat, coupled with the feverish passions of both hero and antagonist, give the story as a whole a much-needed jolt of unpredictability and potential mortality.<br />I was initially surprised to find that Dark Horse included two issues after *Autumn Frost's* harrowing conclusion, the one-shots `The Wind and the Heron' and `Petals on the Wind', which detail the growing relationship of Anotsu and Hisoka Shingyoto.  In hindsight, though, I can see why, as this profoundly brief romantic interlude offers a telling contrast to the stonehearted feud of the previous storyarc. . . and when I say brief, I mean brief - events are already transpiring to doom the dreams of these star-crossed lovers.<br />A note on the artwork: Hiroaki Samura's technique can almost be considered the antithesis of mainstream Manga.  Instead of the ultra-clean ink-lines and the large eyes/small mouth stereotypes perpetuated in most Japanese comics, Samura favors a sketch-technique to his backgrounds and action sequences, along with [fairly] proportional humanistic characteristics (the ears are a bit large).  The detail and craftsmanship are, as always, superb, particularly in the pencil-work and frame-perspective.  More importantly, Samura has evolved in his plotting and drafting of combat: no over-reliance of hacked limbs and death-murals here! Instead, the fight-scenes are so visceral and tension-laden that one can almost smell the coppery stench of intermingled blood, dust and sweat; feel the kicks, blows and (multiple) stabbings as our heroes struggle toward their long-awaited culmination.  It's a welcome change from *Beasts*' grim assortment of decapitations and limb-loss.<br />Five stars.	2004-02-25
US	52459466	R23L0OQU5BOFPH	1401201172	617577285	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen - Volume 2	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Curiosity Compendium for our Modern Era	So what does one do after completing a masterpiece? Alan Moore undoubtedly mulled over this very question upon the completed print-run of his *Watchmen,* the 12-volume superhero-angst exegesis that shattered and redefined the boundaries of the illustrated-lit medium.  The pressure to surmount a previous `peak' must be, for lack of a better work, Extraordinary: many geniuses have crumpled under the task of replicating a similar revolutionary feat, producing only pale shadows of their former majesty.  But Moore is not among these wasted one-shot-wonders: a careful analysis of his career, from the early scribe-work on *Swamp Thing* and the prototype-insurgency of his *MiracleMan*, through the critical acclaim of *Watchmen* and into his current role of alternative publisher-cum-artiste, one sees a clear delineation of theme and conceptual progression: Moore ever challenges the stereotypes of the medium, injecting fresh blood into the rigid molds of the American ubermench hero-shell, finding fertile soil in the compost-heap of 20th century horrors, its ideals, hypocrisies and myriad illusions - all to produce art that both reflects and illuminates our precarious position.<br />Of Moore's many current projects, *The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen* is unique in the fact that it so clearly chronicles both progression _and_ regression within genre margins.  The progressive element is obvious; at this point, Moore must be able to circumnavigate clichd counter-production even in his somnambulistic scribblings. Thus, taking stock characters of 19th century fiction and giving them multi-dimensions - check.  Sharp, witty writing that avoids the showy or superficial (more than necessary in historical re-invention) - check.  A heaping of jolly-good fisticuffs, titillating fleshpot shenanigans, betrayal, murder and other assorted nastiness - check.  Of course, after so many successful, serendipitous projects, one comes to expect these qualities from Moore, a true master of hiscraft; perhaps the most impressive constituent in the span of his prolific oeuvre is an overall *consistency* to every project attempted.<br />As for my claim of `regression' . . .  this may seem an oxymoron, until put into perspective.  For the amount of research Moore has done in compiling the *League of Extraordinary Gentlemen* becomes astonishingly obvious in this volume's cheeky coda, `The New Traveller's Almanac,' which serves as a sort of Curiosity Compendium for penny-dreadful fantastical imaginings, and displays ever so clearly how bastardized and mass-market streamlined these heroes/villains of Ye Olde Classical have been by the horrific H-wood machine - a continual cultural DumbingDown afflicted at the very heart of our most precious modern storytelling. Recent examples include the style-over-substance vamp-epic *Underworld* (now vampires have reflections!) and the disastrous \\"adaptation\\" of *LXG* (to coin 20th Century Fox's marketing abbreviation).  These movies reverse-result the intrinsic power of the original material, sacrificing the greatest elements - characterization, psychological motive, intricate plot development and theme - for \\"bigger bang for the buck;\\" eradicating all challenging content for simple-minded surface thrills.<br />Thus, Moore's Curiosity Compendium exposes the current regression of our literate history, via the `whitebread effect:' if the spread-thin adaptations of Disney et al is all an impressionable mind has as reference, then the saturated result eventually _becomes_, in the majority of our cultural knowledge, the origin-point of said myths . . . a gradual devolution unto deficit-simulacra.  Truly a frightening state of affairs to contemplate.  Luckily we have Alan Moore, and a few learned others, to `hold the torch,' utilizing the actual tone and temperament of the source material in their own re-invention fictions.  <br />*LXG vol. 2* (if I may be so bold) begins upon the wasted plains of Mars.  After some cursory environment-designs and ambiguous conversation, the reader is plunged into the red planet's symbolic namesake - the blood-foaming battle-tyrant of Roman mythology - via a pitch battle between humans and alien forces; the combined allusion to Gulliver's Travels, H.G. Wells and Edgar Rice Burroughs is masterfully done.  When we return to our League, it seems but a page-turn in time from vol. 1: Jeckel still struggles to contain his monstrous Id; Quartermain and Miss Murray circle one another in pre-rut ritual; Nemo barks and blusters. . . and sadly, isn't developed any further.  The arrival of the alien forces reunites these disparate souls, but the fractures in the League's faade are more apparent this time around; it shall endure betrayal, murder and sacrifice before the tale is finished. <br />Alas, Vol 2. is not as compelling as the first edition. The stakes are higher this time around, yet the tension feels somewhat lethargic due to pacing issues and a disappointing lack of development amongst certain members of the League, Nemo in particular.  The sea-pirate is condemned to a reactionary role, shouting and scowling at the atrocities in constant rotation, with little insight as to his character or deeper motivations; and unfortunately, the `New Traveller's Almanac' hints that Nemo shall play no larger a part in the future story, rendering him an example of wasted opportunity.  Still, the writing itself is as sharp as ever, and the O'Neill's art remains consistently marvelous.<br />The hardback edition of *LXG vol. 2* is particularly beautiful, crimson-covered and embossed with the League's question-mark sigil, complete with a red ribbon chapter-marker and a portrait dustjacket.  Games, advertisements and a cover-gallery round out the extras, along with an amusing Cautionary Fable directed at those overly impatient fans that simply cannot get their League quickly enough.  Despite my reservations about some of the structural qualities, *LXG vol. 2* is a quality item amongst the pulp rubbish of the bookseller's comic-bin.  Don't be a pansy, a fop or a sissy-boy! Pick this one up today!	2004-02-23
US	52459466	REPYZ19B6XE4T	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	And the Tower is Closer	With the world's most popular genre-fiction author now on the verge of self-proclaimed retirement, I'd say it is far past time for a serious re-examination of the literary status of Stephen King: specifically, the influence of his prolific oeuvre, and his eventual place in the hierarchy of the creative-bent. <br />The Facts: King has mastered the structural patterns of the novel - the build of tension, the interweaving of multiple subplot and character, the satisfaction of climax - over the course of his forty-odd novels.  But prolificacy alone does not make one great:  King's genius lies in his assimilation and use of the symbols, simulacra and master-tropes of the late 20th century; and although this does *date* his work, no author can truly transcend their era or experiences: \\"write what you know.\\"  Few modern authors have succeeded so well in depicting our just-past century in all its increasingly self-conscious existence: its trend-mania and buzzword fever, its silent Cold War post-trauma, the uncertain edge of information-age eruption - metaphorical monsters reflecting the deeper corruptions of the real and hyper-real.<br />Thus, I feel that Stephen King will, in hindsight, stand among the giants of the literary arena, particular those poets and pen-prophets who devoted their talent to the description and drama of their selected period: Balzac, Dickens, Austen, Pasternak, etc. Despite some sub-par work and a penchant for the vulgar (not a negative, for the vulgar is, after all, a purely human characteristic, wholly divorced from the cold, clinical pontifications of many of this era's so-called 'serious' authors), King's undisputable canonical status of *primal influence* is practically assured on the basis of sheer print-count alone.  Come Apocalypse, the few remaining literary artifacts for our consequence-blasted survivors to pick over shall, in a number's game, include the Bible, Tolkien, Rowling, and that little horror-fiction writer who could, Stephen King. <br />For close examination of King's talent and artistic tenacity, one need look no further than *The Dark Tower*, his three-decade in the making, seven-volume sci-fi gunslingers vs. entropy saga, the unifying thread - frayed and salt-stained as it may be - that strings all of his previous work together.  *The Dark Tower* is King's masterwork, his opus, the culmination of all his creative energies focused into one massive over-arching storyline.  For a saga, however, the devil is in the details, and King has made no secret of the fact that he is, in effect, making it up as he goes, drawing his inspiration from certain core influences: T.S. Eliot's \\"The Waste Lands,\\" Browning's \\"Child Roland to the Dark Tower Came,\\" spagetti-western serials.  I don't doubt that certain pivotal events were planned out beforehand, but the bulk of this 3000 page epic seems to have emerged intuitively, shaped from the supraconscious ether.  Thus, mistakes have been made, and changes wrought mid-epic: a recent re-write has helped to rectify most of these inconsistencies and make the Dark Tower flow as a continuous, solid work rather than, in reality, a patchwork albatross that has shadowed King and his creative output for the past twenty-five years.  <br />Wolves of the Calla is both the smoothest and the most self-conscious of the Dark Tower volumes to date.  Taking up the hoary 'rough-hewn heroes protect the villagers' myth-motif, the bulk of the novel builds on the underlying resistance and fear that often accompany acts of desperate bravery. Roland and company must navigate treachery amongst the townsfolk of the Calla in order to protect the township's children, half of whom are in the danger of kidnapping, brainjuice exploitation, and the subsequent retardation by the minions of the Crimson King.  Worse, a different but no less dangerous treachery has formed within the feminine core of the ka-tet: Susanna has manifested a mysterious new personality, an alter-ego by the name of 'Mia' (nice, Stephen, nice) with hideous dining habits and a one-track mind about childrearing.    <br />Throughout Wotc, and especially at the end, King overtly acknowledges how 20th century icons have permeated his work, and popularized it therein: name-dropped pop-modern sigils include Harry Potter, Star Wars, Dr. Doom's tech-minions, and a not-subtle inclusion of a certain author penning a certain saga.  Speculations now abound upon rumor's virtual breeding-ground: a comparison of the \\"coincidental\\" numbers prevalent throughout WotC with certain recent events in King's life gives the casual reader an insight to where this epic is heading, beyond the usual metaphysical hints and forebodings. If King does choose to complete The Dark Tower in such a manner, this saga may become the biggest mainstream-oriented post-modern joke in history... and it might even work.  <br />We shall see.  And soon, thankfully.  2004 heralds both volume 6, Song of Susanna, and volume 7, The Dark Tower.  What is in that room at the top? Is it empty? Or does it give us a view - a very _special_ view - of the man behind the scenes...?<br />Rating note: I've taken one star off my rating for two reasons.  Like many, I don't care for the paintings.  Out of all the talented artists who could give a Dark Tower volume some true justice, King seems inexplicably content on attracting dull and/or inappropriate visualists to define his opus (Whelan was the only decent choice out of the lot).  Secondly, the stream-of-conscious manner in which King has chosen to write this epic has splintered a number of flaws in the foundation; not a damaging point, given the main antagonist seems to be the force of entropy itself - however, I did not care for the constant \\"reminders\\" of what had happened in the series before.  King urged virgin readers to seek book one after the opening summation: he should have left it at that and done without the needless rehash of events.  Thus, four stars.	2004-01-20
US	52459466	R3IZKZS4B2MUPI	0231121008	189843858	The Vital Illusion	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Use your Illusions (part one)	Although it is illuminating to peruse the range of philosophic thought throughout the ages, from pre-Socratic ponderings to Kant's analytical deconstructions, I cannot help but find many of these famed thinkers to be more interesting as _historical thought_ rather than paradigm-paths to set one's foot upon.  Such is the price of time, of evolving cultural consciousness.  Thinkers of the past are intimately tied to the world as it existed then; their procedures and puzzles grow and gel into the vast soup of the hyper-spun mind-verse, annexed and assimilated like so much else-; whereas, in this accelerated, pre-apocalyptic era, the crow caw of the post-postmodern (\\"meta\\" squared) philosopher addresses, to the forward-thinking inclination, the challenges party-crashing their way into the 21st century, the horrific changes already in embryonic phase...<br />French harbinger Jean Baudrillard is among my favorites of the current era's post-post prophets, the unflinching eye and unwavering cry to detail the vertigo of the so-called 'hyper-real.'  Baudrillard isn't the easiest read: the good professor seems to prefer oblique allusion over clear-cut definition, in both idea and grammatical usage: an effective stratagem for expressing the nightmarish quagmire of the impending future, with all of its possible ramifications, but rarely something to breeze through at the bedside.  In The Vital Illusion, however, Baudrillard (or, perhaps, his translator) has set his syntax to a more digestible format, and only occasionaly do these essays slip into metaspake-insinuation.  Thankfully, the content of the book itself is not affected; indeed, this more straightforward approach lends a subtle dynamism to the ideas expressed.<br />The essays, in brief:<br />1.  The Final Solution: Here Baudrillard casts to us, scions of the 21st century, the snake-eyes dice-roll of ultimate conformity: the chilling concept of living in \\"the Hell of the Same.\\"  As science strives toward the seductive apple of immortality, its juicy flesh of *primal desire* will be devoured and irrevocably transformed, via cloning and genetic refinement, into a frightening husk of its original promise, the metaphorical allure stripped clean, the remains w/out nourishment or natural constituent.  With the eventual dominance of the 'artificial continuum,' the human element will be subsumed in turn, the core motivational urges of sex and death eradicated by their very obsoleteness, all original thought and spiritual cognizance reduced in turn to a cold white tunnel-vision, the zero-essence of widespread cultural monothought.  <br />Worse, the blind arrow of this post-modern scientific drive exterminates the raw and the flaw of evolution for the controlled security of moderated, non-trauma sub-being: the clone: a fearsome involution.  The key motivation here appears to be a surrealistic *suicide-drive* -- the collective unease at our historical prominence and ever-expanding ability: our subsequent subconscious _need_ to 'ready ourselves' for the impending, inevitable catastrophe resultant of this era's technological excesses. Thus, the Final Solution: sacrificing the whole diversity of specie, and indeed the fertile loam of the earth itself, for the Pandora's Box of limitless experimentation, a grand scale kamikaze wet-dream--; via commodity, cancerous replication, clone-reproduction and the causality therein, Nietzche's \\"human, all too human\\" factor erodes before the immortal-coil ambition, and Baudrillard warns that the consequential artificial hegemony will transform mankind into a mere genetic simulation of life -- \\"the Hell of the Same,\\" ad infinitum... and ironically, our only remedy will be the survival-mechanistic *resistance* that both propels and retards human advancement.<br />2. The Millennium: Our philosopher endeavors, in a rather round about sort of way, to express how time has been mapped: our past by nostalgic reminisce and sentimental bias; our present in the glaring symbol-fractures of liquid quartz crystal; and our future...ah, the future...predicted and devoured accordingly, with all \\"current events\\" anticipated and presented with bare resemblance to the actual occurrence -- the event itself overhyped and saturated to the point of non-entity.  Baudrillard also addresses the unfortunate mass confusion that even now pervades the knowledge-explosion of the mediaverse: how the loss of \\"utopia\\" and ideological theism has jeopardized the *vital illusion* of structure, shipwrecking the common man upon the unkind shores of nihilism.  Alas, the cynical result (a mental entropy in and of itself) has already [irrevocably?] infected the mainstream herd mentality of both the \\"real\\" and its cyberspace equivalent.  <br />In this new millennium, as the simulacra outstrips the original in replication/expansion, increasingly *clone-like* symbols -- of religion, commodity, etc. -- emerge to the forefront: and the original intent of these icons are diluted/raped and/or mutated into strange monstrosities of blind belief...  A (very prominent) past example: the Nazis corrupting and in turn stigmatizing the hakenkreuz swastika of Hindu cosmology, transforming a powerful symbol of cyclical movement into a brand of hatred, genocide, and reactionary fear.<br />3. The Murder of the Real: Finally Baudrillard settles back into the comfort-zone of post-modernism, indulging in the safety net of metaspeak to detail a very un-safe concept: that the 'Real' is not only dead, it has vanished completely: the 'rules' terminated before the law of 'higher' realms (the virtual, for one, with all its criminal possibility & sterile generalization of humanistic motifs); all ideological structure hopelessly corrupted & replicated to the abstract point of having almost no resemblance with its original intent; language melted down to the base-communication of keyboard strokes and emoticon glyphs.  The 'murder' is that of human *conception*, slain before eruptive expansion:there is simply too much -Real- to assimilate! It no longer can be catalogued and calculated; chaos has begun to rule.  Shiva is on the dance-floor, folks, and Baudrillard suggests it might be better to slip on our suede shoes and boogie down to the beat, to celebrate disappearance and obsolescence as an artistic form, rather than succumb to the black-hearted ruin of spiritual capitulation.  Shape chaos! We all do it anyway, to a greater or lesser extent...<br />...and so forth.  Even if you don't agree with this bleak vision of the future, Baudrillard at least gives us entertaining concepts to introduce at the next dinner-party.  Shake up the routine of endless pop-culture riffing, corrupt the small-talk routines! The crow's caw is never welcome, but neither can it be truly *ignored*.	2003-11-16
US	52459466	R26DPX38LH43BT	0140443010	145332172	History of the Thirteen (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Conspiracies of the Heart	\\"They were thirteen kings...judges and executioners too, they had equipped themselves with wings in order to soar over society in its heights and depths, and disdained to occupy any place in it because they had unlimited power.\\"<br />So reads the back-cover blurb for the Penguin Classics edition of _History of the Thirteen_.  Balzac had a way with words, and with these the fertile imagination soars: what sort of conspiracy theory would pere Honore, perhaps the most famous French novelist of all time, detail? What feverish secrets of ritualistic skullduggery would the ink-corrupted quill scrawl upon the blank, innocent face of parchment? Given the fact that this was written 160 or so years ago, I assumed that current Conspiracy Theory staples of paranoiac-favor would be missing-it seemed a far cry, that any 4th dimensional reptilian Satan-worshiping aliens would make a cameo appearance in the French salons, perverting the rule of the Bourbons, re-writing the Dead Sea Scrolls in their spare time, and jostling the extras line for a background face-shot in Sightings-yet certainly one could expect, in Balzac's `fictional' account of the Thirteen, the occasional allusion to the `old-skool' *member's only* clubs... perhaps a hint of neo-Templar Egyptian-spiced exclusivity? Or, perhaps, an eyewitness account of the ultra-debauched rites used to entertain and ensnare...? Thus, I plunged into the book with bated breath and no few pulpy expectations, hoping that, once again, the literary pen would raise the ghosts and grandiosity of the bygone age: let nineteenth-century Conspiracy Theory breath the befouled air of its exhumation! <br />Well, in reflection, the literary pen did revive, to my firmly modern-entrenched mind, the environmental parameters and social paradigms of this long-extinct Parisian era, so turbulent and raw in the aftermath of the Revolution and Napoleon's Grand Vision.  Balzac was born on the tip of this generation, and his writings capture the social strata of the time: the continual wrangling for power between the aristocracy and the reformists; the lack of fortitude among the noble-born, the ignorance of the common-man...and, lest I forget, the upjump exploitation of the self-made individual.  All and one, they find a place in Balzac's interconnected oeuvre, the Human Comedy, wherein the three novels of _History of the Thirteen_ reside.<br />Yes, three novels, or more accurately, novellas.  Curiously, I could not find the above quote anywhere in the pages between the front and back cover, though its promising eloquence continually mocked me; moreover, the secret society of the Thirteen is left, for the most part, unexamined, their motives mysterious, their origin untold.  Balzac instead concerns himself with the trials and turmoil of those in love, covering the three bases of miscommunication, coquetry, and unachieved expectation, afflictions so common and prevalent in matters of the heart.<br />A closer look:<br />1) Ferragus: <BR>A tragic tale of a good, honest stockbroker and the wife he comes to suspect of cuckoldry.  Miscommunication and the fear of plummeting down the social hierarchy are Balzac's central themes here, with constant asides about the nature of Paris or humanity as a whole.  A member of the thirteen is central to this story, though his appearance is late and he reveals precious little of the society's History.<BR>   <BR>2) The Duchesse de Languais: <BR>Balzac had just emerged from a disastrous fling when he wrote this novel, and it is quite obvious between the lines that he had an o'erbearing spleen to vent: thus we are treated to the oft-silly and ultimately destructive theme of coquetry.  In no uncertain terms Balzac savages the \\"young and the restless\\" of the 1840's Parisian jet-set in straight language (a venomous critique of the dissipative patterns of the day), and exemplifies this class in one of the two main characters, the Duchess de Languais. The Duchess mercilessly toys with the desires of the honest soldier Montriveau (in essence, Balzac himself) until he, in turn, decides to enact a callous form of silent-treatment revenge... There are some rather piercing statements about the nature of women in this novella; nothing that would turn the eyebrow of Schopenhauer, but more than enough to infuriate the Toni Morrison crowd.  Still, Balzac is unequivocal in his treatise on character wiles: Montriveau's pride is just as damaging, ultimately, as the Duchesse Languais' (quite natural) coy instinct.<br />3) The Girl with Golden Eyes: Here, Balzac abandons narrative and uses the first-quarter of the novella to ruminate on the social strata of Paris, specifically the physiognomy of the artist, the civil servant, and the elevated bourgeois; all enslaved, in their own way, to the lusts of \\"gold and pleasure.\\"  The story, when we eventually get to it, concerns the seduction of a beautiful young woman by a dissipated servant of the Thirteen, and touches on the sensitive (for that time) topic of homosexuality and the human obsession with purity and virginity.  The shortest and the least of the three novellas, the Girl with Golden Eyes is still a worthy read for the opening screed and for some of Balzac's delicious descriptive prose.<br />All in all, although nowhere near as good as Pere Goirot or the Black Sheep, this is a worthwhile read for those who like nineteenth century literature.  Balzac knew French society like few others and is happily unsentimental in both conceptual idea and the commencement of the prose.  Just don't go in expecting `alternative history'... the only conspiracies here are those of the heart.	2003-10-29
US	52459466	R3DHIW09SRP910	1569717419	180110244	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 11. Beasts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	the name of the game is vengeance...extreme vengeance	Blade of the Immortal, in brief summery:<br />Think it would be great to live forever? Manji, a crass ronin of eighteenth century Japan, doesn't agree. Cursed to immortal life for prior misdeeds, he must dispatch a thousand evil men to the judgment of the Buddha in order to die himself. Joining a young girl on her quest for vengeance against the rebellious Itto-Ryu sword school, Manji soon has dire need for his twelve blades as he faces a motley of hardened warriors, psychopaths, philosophers and just plain jokers. The thousand-man requiem is met by the painful stroke of give-and-take; and is told in a fashion that puts most modern epics to shame.<br />Now with that said, I have a bone to pick with Dark Horse.  Manji is not present in this volume, yet his face (cool as it is) adorns the cover of \\"beasts\\" and would seem a blatant selling point to ignorant fans of the series.  I take offense to this on an _asthetic_ level---I'm well aware that the Japanese and Thai graphic novels use this cover as well---but a picture of Hyakurin (the main character of this particular episode) would be much more appropriate.  Still, I'm not _quite_ as upset as I was to find that the beautful Anotsu cover of \\"secrets\\" had been replaced with the armless manji-in-action from \\"The Gathering\\" #12--now that was TRULY a travesty!!<br />Anyway, on with the review (warning---some spoilers ahead).  This long storyarc features a bunch of Itto-Ryu swordsmen who have 'gone rogue' (an oxymoron, I know) to settle an old score with the Mugai-Ryu.  Hyakurin is captured and tortured for information.  Giichi searchs the whorehouse district of Tatsumi for her.  Events lead up to the typical Samura showdown: lots of hacked-off limbs and macho posturing, though ol' Giich is a bit more reserved than the average kenchi.  Several dream sequences flesh out the personalities of Hyakurin and Shinriji, and expose some of the conflicts inherent within Japanese culture and society.<br />A note on the review below:considering how sex is portrayed by the bulk of adult Japanese anime/manga, Samura actually handles the material with far more subtely and sensitivity than his contemporaries.  There is no real nudity, and the most offensive act is thankfully restrained by a dream/memory sequence.  Still, this is a fairly harrowing storyarc, about as rough as \\"Heart of Darkness\\", and those of a weak violence-threshold need not venture further.<br />Five stars.  Hopefully Dark Horse is saving that Anotsu cover for the storyarc after Fall Frost...	2003-03-06
US	52459466	RLKYJD4S68V9Z	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Entertaining, yes, but sadly lacking.	To start, I will admit one thing: I read most of this book in two sittings, captivated by Chuck's \\"rollar coster\\" (as the amazon reviewer put it) build-up of plot and theme.  So I will give Mr. Palahuniuk credit where credit is due.  _Invisible Monsters_ begins with interesting circumstances, and it manages to maintain a level of suspense/tension most of the way through.  Yet by the end...I find this the equivalent of literary Doritos.  The first few tastes are so good (thank you taste-addicting additives) that before you know it the whole bag is finished and you've nothing left for your trouble except a stomachache and bad aftertaste.<br />_Invisible Monsters_ is very similar to Palaniuk's previous novel _Fight Club_...too similar.  The writing technique is virtually the same, with numerous stylistic quote-interludes (\\"flash\\"), a nameless narrator reflecting on events in stream-of-conscious thought-patterns (written, of course, in fragmented form); and both books contain near identicle \\"points\\" to be made, being salvation through physical destruction/paradigm deconstruction.  _Invisible Monsters_ is essentially a nilhillistic pop-culture satire using gender-bender characters/fashion enthusiasts as its primary protagonists/targets.  The problem is, most of Palahuniuk's targets are easy ones; hunting this sort of game has been done better elsewhere (including Fight Club).  <br />Unlike some of the other reviewers on this forum, I did not find the ending, with its requisite \\"twists\\", to make the sum of this book more than its varied parts.  In fact, the last ten pages seemed afflicted with a weariness: author or main character? Chuck's point was logical but I found the execution poor.<br />The theme of beauty worship--and the desire to escape it, and the temptation to return--is a very good one, and could have become razor-sharp with more work and less stylistic [touches], but I find _Invisible Monsters_ to be far too OBVIOUS in content to effectively work as satire.Time and time again Chuck TELLS us rather than SHOWS us, and his biting, surreal stream-of-conscious technique that felt so fresh and forceful in FC now feels forced, weighed with the tedium of unnecessary repetition and some truly bad prose ([I would pay snakes to bite her])<br />That said, this is not a BAD book, as it evokes interesting themes and has a number of quotable gems.  But neither is it a very GOOD book, either.  Certainly not worth five stars.  Or anything else than a library check-out, for that matter.	2003-03-06
US	52459466	R2GNSP1CSSZECD	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	4	20	26	N	N	Half-life Wanderings; or, the Memory-Glutton Gobbles On	If Phillip K. Dick were to rise from his grave today, he would probably peruse the current state of `alternative entertainment' with a knowing smirk.  The dominant themes Dick mined in his thirty-year career - including alien invasions, time/reality distortion, psychoactive illness, drug abuse, paranoia, metaphysical yearning - have been used and reused so much in the last decade that `alternative entertainment' now has a solid niche in the mainstream.  Note the recent success (in theater or video) of Momento, The Matrix, Mulholland Drive, Fight Club, etc.  Dick's own work has been drafted for the mainstream buck from time to time, as well, though usually in clipped or totally reworked format, _Total Recall_ being a good example of the former, _Blade Runner_ of the latter. <br />I state the above because it helps to read some of Dick's sci-fi with strong hindsight; to realize that when Dick was writing it, there was nothing else like it.  Such is the case with _Ubik_.  For though this book suffers from some typical Dick sloppiness (two dimensional characters, lazy grammar, a meandering plot that almost made me throw the book down in disgust - ) the core ideas Dick introduces and uses were undoubtedly radical for its time, far beyond clich or contrived conflict.  <br />The specifics: Glen Runciter is the owner of an `anti-psi' organization, which roots out errant telepaths and protects the `unevolved' layman from mental sabotage.  After Runciter is slain by a business competitor, his gifted employees scramble to keep the company afloat...then scramble to stay alive, for reality itself seems to be disintegrating before their very eyes.  Stranger still, Runciter's face appears on money; he (or his ghost, perhaps?) leaves surreal messages on the walls of bathroom stalls.  Is Runciter dead? Or is everyone else? And how does the universal panacea Ubik figure into all of this?<br />_Ubik_ is not one of Dick's better novels.  The characters are dull; many interesting ideas are quickly introduced and just as quickly discarded; the whole middle section of the book is a bit of a slog.  But the ending redeems the effort spent, as everything falls into place - almost.  <br />All in all, a good mind-bender for a summer afternoon.  Four stars.	2002-08-22
US	52459466	RFDFOKYJ63EQD	0231035314	240814282	Chushingura (The Treasury of Loyal Retainers): A Puppet Play	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Keenes translation brings a puppet play to life	It is surprising that there is only one readily available (or at least affordable) translation of Chushingura, one of Japan's most famous puppet/kabuki plays, at amazon.  We are fortunate then that Donald Keene's translation is that particular one, for it is a vivid, elegant work, serving as both an entertaining read and historical document.<br />After Tokugawa became Shogun in 1601, Japan entered a long period of regimented peace.  The Samurai warrior-class were forced to adapt therein, trading their swords for the pen, and many of the classic traditions fell into stagnation.  The old ways were taught, but seldom practiced: to excel in Tokugawa's bureaucracy, skill with the tongue was more important than skill with the sword...at least in the long run.<br />But occasionally the Samurai spirit rebelled.  In 1703, forty-six former retainers of the late lord Naganori burst into the grounds of lord Yoshinaka, the man indirectly responsible for the death of their master; they killed Yoshinaka and then marched to a nearby Buddhist temple to offer the severed head to their master's grave.  Even though they knew it would mean death by ritual seppuku (disembowelment), the ronin fulfilled their pledge to their master regardless, thus gaining `face' through the performance of duty.<br />Chushingura, a fictionalized account of this famous vendetta, emphasizes these aspects of honor and loyalty: the forty-six ronin are determined to see their course through to its end, regardless of cost.  And the cost is, in places, quite high.  Some have their wives sold to prostitution so that they can finance their revenge operation.  Others deny their wedding promises, knowing death rests upon their shoulders.  One ronin engages in all sorts of debauchery, destroying his reputation and staining his family name, so that suspicion is allied and he can plot in peace.  Sacrifice for honor is prevalent throughout the play, and from it one can glean all of the qualities the Japanese revere mostin their national character and heritage.<br />Though Keen's translation a joy to read, there are some essential elements missing from this slender volume, thus my rating of four stars.  Specifically, a discourse on the music used during the play performance (so key, apparently, in influencing the audience mood), is missing, with a paltry excuse given; and a chart of names would have been very helpful in establishing the relationships between characters.  Still, this is a great buy for anyone interested in Japanese history and culture.	2002-05-29
US	52459466	RUG7VSD65DHDB	0140442278	708519048	Essays and Aphorisms (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Brilliant & Provocative	The one overriding fault I tend to find in western philosophers of the last couple centuries stems from the strange-but-prevalent affliction coequally termed `diarrhea of the pen.'  I suppose verboseness is to be expected, after all: most (if not all) of these famed deep thinkers are attempting to condense/define the human experience within the vast ocean of existence itself; given these parameters and the innumerable tangents available, it is no real surprise then that those of philosophic bent tend to express their concepts in complicated and convoluted form.  If nothing else, it keeps the proles away in droves (j/k)--but seriously, it also makes reading these conceptions a tedious task; it off-times seems to me that Kant, Hegel et al would have benefited greatly from the presence of a stern editor.<br />But here we have an innovation! Penguin Classics has published an abridged version of Arthur Schopenhauer's _Parerga and Paralipomena_ into this nice digestible volume, _Essays and Aphorisms_.  R.J. Hollingdale's translation is a clear, lucid read, and with the repetition and grandiloquence removed, the pessimistic outlook of Herr Schopenhauer gains a keen sharpness; his controversial musings cut quick and to the bone.  <br />As for the material itself...well, let's take a look:<br />\\"The social structure, the state, will stand quite firm only when it is founded on an universally recognized metaphysical system.  Such a system can naturally be only one of folk-metaphysics, that is, religion: ...the social structure could hardly exist at all if religion did not lend weight to the government's authority and the ruler's dignity...\\" (On Religion: A Dialogue, pg. 109)<br />\\"...as the weaker sex, [women] are driven to rely not on force but on cunning: hence their instinctive subtlety and their ineradicable tendency to tell lies: for, as nature has equipped the lion with claws and teeth, the elephant with tusks, the wild boar with fangs (etc), so it has equipped women with the power of dissimulation as her means of attack and defense...\\" (On Women, pg. 83) <br />\\"A constitution embodying nothing but abstract justice would be a wonderful thing, but it would not be suited to beings such as men.  Because the great majority of men are in the highest degree egoistic, unjust, inconsiderate, deceitful, sometimes even malicious, and equipped moreover with very mediocre intelligence, there exists a need for a completely unaccountable power...\\" (On Law and Politics, pg. 152-153)<br />\\"States of human happiness and good fortune can as a rule be compared with certain groups of trees: seen from a distance they look beautiful, but if you go up to and into them their beauty disappears and you can no longer discover it.  That is why we so often feel envy for other people.\\" (On Psychology, pg.171)<br />\\"Few write as an architect builds, drawing up a plan beforehand and thinking it out down to the smallest details.  Most write as they play dominoes: their sentences are linked together as dominoes are, one by one, in part deliberate, in part by chance.\\" (On Writing, pg. 207)  <br />This is great stuff, people, whether you agree with Schopenhauer's statements or not.  Brilliant & provocative, and an enjoyable read as well. Highly recommended.	2002-05-17
US	52459466	R2RN9PD2NMQVZG	1569715289	154634991	Akira, Vol. 6	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Climax, Conclusion...and Beginning...	Allow me to reiterate:<br />Amidst the flotsam and jetsam of former pop-culture sensations, there are a few items of media that, through sheer visceral creative force, transcend the `cool one moment, clich the next' element of disposable entertainment.  The Japanese manga/movie _Akira_ is among these rare and dignified.  Although the movie version is cluttered and convoluted, an epic mess--and what can one expect from the effort of reducing 2000 pages into two hours?--there still remains a power and presence to it that is at once unnerving and captivating.  <br />I \\"got\\" Akira upon my first viewing, but like many others found the movie unsatisfying on a basic level.  Characters and concepts popped up out of nowhere, seemingly important to the overall arc, yet remaining undeveloped.  It felt as if an enormous amount of back-story was left untold.  Thankfully, Dark Horse has decided to give the manga version of _Akira_ the definitive publishing it deserves, to fill in the gaps and give us a deeper and far more gratifying glimpse into Katsuhiro Otomo's astonishing vision of dystopia.  <br />And now, finally, volume six is here, containing story and art never before seen on these shores.  Here Otomo takes the hints and fragments presented by the film--Tetsuo's metamorphosis, the fate of Neo-Tokyo, the showdown of primal force between Akira and his prodigy companions--and ties them together in a way that, as an end result, far overshadows the 16mm attempt.  I have to agree with a fellow reviewer who claims that the movie and manga compliment each other...but while the former is interesting and challenging, the latter is far more essential in terms of scope and overall achievement.<br />The art is, as usual, clean and crisp and amazingly complex; one can simply contemplate the detail of various panels for hours on end.  But the story is paced at such an ongoing peak (especially considering the cliffhanger ending to vol. 5) that upon first reading you may do what I did:breeze through the pages, totally involved in the build-up/release of conflict, while using the art as merely a visual representation for the ongoing story.  Thus, Akira vol. 1-6 contains immense re-read potential: firstly to glean Otomo's philosophical ponderings on energy and consciousness, secondly to appreciate the amazing artwork.<br />And the ending...in true Japanese form, the very ambiguity of it hints at a far larger story in progression; the end is the beginning, apparently.  Those with concrete story-structure paradigms may find it unsatisfactory, but I personally loved the surreal suggestions.<br />Truly an epic, in all sense of the word.  Five stars.	2002-05-11
US	52459466	R258EQNHZH3ZRW	0929173252	610173997	Excitotoxins: The Taste That Kills	Books	5	549	561	N	N	You Are What You Eat, or, Toxic Waste for the Masses	It is almost a cliche in this day and age for someone to ask the waiter at a Chinese restaurant 'no MSG, please,' as is the waiter's knowing smirk in response. MonoSodium Glutamate (MSG), or 'The essence of taste' (as coined by the Japanese), is used as a 'taste-enhancer' in nearly every form of processed food on the market today, though 'taste addiction' may be a more correct term. But what exactly does it do? And how is it harmful?<br />Dr. Russell L. Blaylock answers these questions and poses some startling evidence as to the eventual consequences of a heavy MSG-diet in his book _Excitotoxins: The Taste that Kills_. In basic terms, MSG (and other, similar agents) pierces the blood-brain barrier and over-stimulates the neurons of a brain to a deadly degree. Habitual intake among animal experiments has shown the development of tumors, memory loss, and a whole host of neurodegenerative diseases as the end result of excess excitotoxin intake, including Alzhiemer's, Parkenson's, Lou Gerhig's etc.<br />Walk into any gas station in the United States (or grocery store, for that matter) and, upon close investigation, you will find that 75%-90% of the available food has been 'enhanced' to some degree by excitotoxins. The chemical agents are often disguised by such ambiguous terms as 'spice' and 'natural flavors' or, my personal favorite, 'hydrolyzed vegetable protein.' A consumer society must have consumer slaves to keep it functioning; MSG is the crack cocaine of the food industry...and it is legally perpetuated by slush-fund advocates and a pork-glutted FDA. As proven again and again, money talks, ... [you can finish the maxim for me].<br />Blaylock's thesis is written in a technical style, but the use of repetition throughout each chapter hammer in his myriad points into the reader with precision and power. An important book for anyone concerned with the health of self and family. You are what you eat---but do you know _what_ it is you are eating, below the surface of taste/fulfillment?	2002-04-16
US	52459466	R1HOC8LOH03JD8	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	5	152	169	N	N	The Slow Train to Oblivion, expertly documented	There is an old adage about writing: \\"Write what you know\\"--as quoted verbatim from Hemmingway, among many others, this proverb is a key to mastering the craft.  One's best work originates from principle experience, core emotions; the rest is just window-dressings, technique for transition. Philip K. Dick, one of the most prolific authors of science fiction for the later half of the twentieth century, wrote about what he knew: paranoia, `big brother', psychological disruptions, drug abuse; and the sci-fi `trimmings' of aliens, techno-dystopias, etc. usually served as interesting backdrops.  As a mad, bad, meth-snortin' horsemeat lovin' pulp master, the dominant themes Dick experienced during his relatively short(ened) life appear again and again in the bulk of his work, though rarely so coherently expressed as in his tragic masterpiece, _A Scanner Darkly_.<br />The `basics:' Bob Arctor is a drug dealer who is also Fred, a narc working undercover with the LAPD to bust a big time drug dealer named...Bob Arctor.  Bob/Fred's drug of choice, Substance D(eath), gradually splits the user's brain into two separate halves, corroding the interaction between the hemispheres and rendering one a split-personality veering chaotically close to schizophrenia.  Bob doesn't realize he's Fred, and vice-versa (except in moments of rare epiphany). As anyone who has read VALIS can attest, the real-life events from which this story is based occurred to Dick in the beginning of the `70's, and most of his fiction afterward were attempts for him to glean and get down the life-shattering experience.  _A Scanner Darkly_ was debatably his most successful attempt, and certainly his most lucid.<br />For all the futuristic flourishes, the bulk of _A Scanner Darkly_ basically describes the everyday existence of Orange County drug users.  The dissipation of the body and slow decay of the mind; the rupturing of the moral core for the immediate high; life on the downward spiral--it's all documented here, in harrowing fashion.  Among the endless repetitive conversations and breakdown-ruminations, there are a few moments of outstanding imagery-the Connie/Donna face-melt and the flower-field being the most prominent in recollection--the first hideous, the second serene--both chilling to the bone given the circumstances.<br />Never a literary stylist, Dick's simple prose veered from elegant to downright amateurish, making some of his lesser/cryptic works a bit of a slog, yet in this particular volume, the author's heart can be found in the characters, environments, and overall pathos; the feel of catharsis is prevalent throughout and made abundantly clear in the coda:<br />\\"They wanted to have a good time, but they were like children playing in the street; they could see one after another of them being killed--run over, maimed, destroyed--but they continued to play anyhow.\\"<br />A melancholic, mad masterpiece.	2002-02-23
US	52459466	R36YP8EE4QH304	055321392X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A difficult text, but well worth the read	`Of Human Bondage' is precisely that: a seminal text focused upon the varied enslavements man subjects himself to, be they poverty, or ego, or religion, or pride, or classism, or art, or of the emotional and physical impulse that combine to create that insidious agent, love...'Of Human Bondage' smolders white-hot against the murky abstractions that congest the philosophic heart; it is a lodestone, sear and boiling, in the stagnant fen of mortal affairs.<br />A semi-autobiography of Somerset, `Of Human Bondage' depicts the formulative years of one Philip Carrey, who is orphaned at an early age and cursed with a deformed leg.  Raised in a classic middle-class English household, Philip goes to school, drops out of school, questions the existence of God, wanders to Germany and France, tries his hand at painting, attends a doctorial college.  Though weak-willed and sensitive to the extreme about his leg, Philip nonetheless displays a lucid perspective about the events that occur around him and the people that populate his world; Somerset's subtle, sometimes cynical, often deadpan personality comes forth brilliantly, without ever resorting to preaching or needless melodrama.<br />For me, the most difficult part of the text concerns Phillip's doomed relationship with the waitress Mildred, whom he falls into a pathetic love/hate affair.  The character of Mildred is so obnoxious and the details of their relationship so noxious I barely continued on from her introduction...but persisted, realizing the overall importance to the narrative.  Philip has observed the bondage of others to fame, desire etc, and displays contempt for that human failing, yet he too sinks into the quagmire with ease: for though Mildred is repulsive to him in nearly all facets, she is strangely alluring as well: she attracts Philip because she perpetuates the same deplorable traits that he himself (Somerset/Carrey) had not yet dealt with; she is the embodiment of his unresolved childhood psychological trauma (orphaned and deformed) and, in a way, a means of his freedom from it.  <br />`Of Human Bondage' abounds with intriguing ideas and universal themes, some probably more relevant for when the book was written, but most still resonant in this day and age.  Of these various philosophical insights, one of the most vital is when Philip comes at last to accept his handicap, realizing that, over the years, the suffering and humiliation he incurred from it gave him a unique character; rather than conforming to the dominant views of class/religion of English society, he continually explored the world with a clear (if sometimes troubled) gaze.  While his major handicap has always been obvious to himself, most of the people around him live their lives totally unaware of their own personal handicaps, be they physical, mental, or emotional-and at last coming to terms with that, he achieves an inner calm that makes the turmoil of the previous six hundred pages all the more worthwhile.<br />Certainly, this is not a book for everyone.  Those of strong religious nature and those programmed to the success-consumption paradigm may find the ideas presented unsettling or unsatisfactory.  Regardless, `Of Human Bondage' will remain a classic of the English language for many years to come, and rightly so.  Well worth the time and energy spent.	2002-02-01
US	52459466	R263ILSHB3MMYX	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Speculations on the century after tomorrow -- good stuff!	Has the cyberpunk genre been doomed since its very premise? This question gains some legitimacy when one examines the base text of the genre - Gibson's `Nueromancer' - and then sees the same qualities and flaws of that seminal text repeated again and again by promising young authors who have big vocabularies, big ideas, a big grasp on where technology might take us next...yet often-times fail in fashioning a compelling story from the prospects of high-tech dystopia, or produce characters that strain and/or break free their archtypical origins.  Such was the dilemma of `Nueromancer.'  Yet Neal Stephenson bucked the trend with his day-after-tomorrow masterpiece `Snow Crash', creating compelling characters and a strong conflict while dishing out the sci-fi goods in voluptuous quantity.  <br />And thus I came to `The Diamond Age' expecting more of the same.  But by one hundred pages in my suspicions were raised: here Stephenson seemed content in world building without presenting any real underlying tension.  Still, I did not fret, nor scowled in impatience, for Stephenson has a good ear for dialogue, a sharp sense of character, and his world building is excellent.  He both uses and pokes sly fun at the space-opera clichs of the cyberpunk genre, all the while delicately fashioning a strong theme: that of the environmental/conditional programming for the children of the future.  Despite the marvelous advances of technology, Stephanson reminds us, there are some core values that really do matter in sustaining a functional society: maternal rearing, emotional education, and strong leaders willing to sacrifice for the greater change.<br />The main character of `The Diamond Age' (or at least the most prominent) is a street urchin named Nell, who escapes from the squalor of her upbringing by devoting her time to the Primer, a nanotechnological nanny full of myth and moral lessons.  As we follow Nell on her virtual and real-life adventures, Stephenson interweaves a dozen other sub-plots around the budding girl, including the political strife that emerges when disparate cultures clash; the logical end-result of the assault of corporate advertising; musings on the nature of culture and society; startling insight into the Chinese mindset-Stephanson has done his homework, and the sheer amount of intelligence and raw talent manifest in `The Diamond Age' not only sets it apart from the countless futurama derivatives, it makes the book a good read despite a weak novel-form progression. <br />I personally did not find the ending to be poor, unlike some other reviewers on this page.  It is powerful, it suits the book, and it leaves many questions open; and for this world, these characters, I found that ambiguity to be much more satisfying than the standard everyone-lives-happily-ever-after.  Society continues, life continues, and the struggles therein continue.  <br />Highly recommended.	2002-01-26
US	52459466	R31ZYELK1D8M5E	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Wizard-world Expands and Complications Ensue	The origin of Harry Potter is a fascinating story, apart from the fiction itself.  In rags-to-riches tradition, J.K. Rowling, a struggling single-parent, scrawled `Sorcerer's Stone' on scraps of paper while taking care of her child and working the slave-grind part time.  Lo and behold, `Sorcerer's Stone' is picked up by a publisher and goes on to sell more than 100 million copies worldwide.  Harry Potter, that messy-haired boy with the cheap eyeglasses, becomes ubiquitous in the pop-culture climate, championed by most as an excellent way to interest children in reading, while scorned and reviled by a small (but very loud) minority of religious extremists, the same sort that gave us the Inquisition and the Salem Witch-Trials.  Well, those few might learn something if they ever deemed to pick up a copy and broaden their perspective: `evil is as evil does' is a theme intricately woven throughout the (to date) four volumes.<br />Rowling has mastered the difficult task of writing to all ages, to children and adults alike.  For though the grammar is for the most part simplistic and the prose uncomplicated, the world building, the characterizations, the build-up of suspense and the handling of multiple plot threads are all deftly done. Moreover, the writing itself is extremely accomplished and in every volume there are small, subtle asides written particularly for the more experienced mindset.  It is no surprise then that these books have gained their astonishing popularity-like `Star Wars' (to cross-compare mediums), Harry Potter spans the generational gap in terms of entertainment and overall composition.<br />In `Goblet of Fire', the most recent and by far the largest of the series, Rowling introduces a whole slew of complications within the wizard-world framework: new characters, new situations, and ominous hints at Dark Lord Voldemort's inevitable resurrection. A Tri-wizard Tournament is held at Hogwarts during Harry's fourth year, and two different schools arrive to present challengers.  Meanwhile, the students are forced to adjust to yet another Defense against the Dark Arts teacher (their fourth so far) and Hermione Granger decides to campaign for the benefits of wage-slaves...oops, I mean house-elves everywhere.  Harry, Ron et all are getting older, and starting to notice the opposite sex; favorites from previous books also appear, including Sirius Black, Dobby the Elf, and the befuddled Cornielius Fudge.<br />The author has stated that she plans on seven Harry Potter volumes altogether; with that in mind, it is easy to see how pivotal this particular episode is: the introductions have been made, the conflict established.  From this point on, nothing in Harry Potter's world will be the same again...<br />Bring on book 5!present challengers.  Meanwhile, the students are forced to adjust to yet another Defense against the Dark Arts teacher (their fourth so far) and Hermione Granger decides to campaign for the benefits of wage-slaves...oops, I mean house-elves everywhere.  Harry, Ron et all are getting older, and starting to notice the opposite sex; favorites from previous books also appear, including Sirius Black, Dobby the Elf, and the befuddled Cornielius Fudge.<br />The author has stated that she plans on seven Harry Potter volumes altogether; with that in mind, it is easy to see how pivotal this particular episode is: the introductions have been made, the conflict established.  From this point on, nothing in Harry Potter's world will be the same again...<br />Bring on book 5!	2002-01-14
US	52459466	R3D1CJVU0VT5QT	0140440518	58983679	The Aeneid (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The Chariots Still Crash	The Aeneid, one of the most famous and widely translated books of all time, was written during Rome's `golden era' by Publius Vergilius, an unassuming scholar in acquaintance with the Emperor Augustus.  Fragmented history informs us that this long Latin poem came into being in part to give the empire a creation-mythos, in part to honor the sagas of Greece from which the bulk of the Roman belief-paradigm originated: scheming Gods, inflexible Fates, the monsters and melodrama human beings can't seem to get enough of...highbrow entertainment of the bygone era; a homage to and subtle critique of the Homeric ideal.  <br />And with hindsight, The Aeneid easily surpasses its source material in terms of scope and sheer writing.  The book begins shortly after the devastation of Troy, and the first half chronicles the search of the refugee Trojans for a new home.  The task is not an easy one: Aeneas the True and his compatriots are plagued by bad weather and the hallmarks of myth (the Cyclopes from the Odyssey make a brief cameo), while the Gods above, vindictive and conspiring, seek to either halt or hurry along their progress.  The second half of the book dictates the arrival of the Trojans to Latium (Italy), the resistance they meet from the natives, and the establishment of Rome proper.  The last quarter of the book is a montage of bloody battles, swords and sorrow taking their claim for the greater good of a future empire.<br />I do not speak the `dead' language of Latin and thus cannot comment on the translation itself; regardless, W.F. Jackson's prose is delight to read - certain passages contain beautiful rhyming schemes; the dialogue and description are extremely well done, retaining an `old world' tone without becoming stilted or faux-archaic.  And throughout the epic adventures and the blood-drenched battles, Virgil's theme - that of Rome's foundation and its preconceived glory - shines through abundantly clear, without ever drowning the reader in heavy-handed sermonizing or extreme sentimentality. <br />An essential text for the student of myth &amp; history.  Five stars.	2002-01-11
US	52459466	R20E211VHUGSPA	014018743X	74022144	Cup of Gold: A Life of Sir Henry Morgan, Buccaneer, with Occasional Reference to History (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not bad, but not anywhere near great, either	Sing, goddess, of the passion and plight of the First Novel! Where a budding writer tests his wings, catches a breeze, and discovers the joy of flight-sailing on the current of the imagination to undiscovered lands, a private Elysium of vine and fertile soil.  Unfortunately, the first book is often like a first child: hope and wonder rest side by side with flaw and inexperience; very rarely does one get it right the first time out. <br />Stienbeck was no exception in this, `Cup of Gold,' the first of many for this Nobel-Prize laureate, this undisputable master of the craft.  The writing itself is for the most part superb, though a bit didactic and superfluous in passages, but certainly better than any number of the current Bestsellers of this modern era.  The main problem, in my opinion, lies in the structure of the novel.  Stienbeck devotes the first third of `Cup of Gold' to Henry Morgan's upbringing, from desolate Wales to luxuriant slavery in Barbados, then glosses over probably the most interesting portion of Morgan's life, his initiation and rise to power as a pirate, King o' the Seas, bloodythirsty God of swashbucklers and scurvy-hounds...the reader goes from a mere boy to a world-weary husk of dissipated passions within three pages.  Thus, the supposed anguish and character-transformation that Stienbeck *tells* us occurs during the sack of Panama come off stilted and wan, for the reader has not been given the opportunity to sympathize with Morgan-he's just a stranger given to philosophic fits and embodied with archetypical male angst.  If Stienbeck had devoted, say, a hundred pages to Morgan's development from boy to captain, the themes would be substantiated and the assault on Panama would gain tragic import for not only its citizens, but for the dominator as well.<br />Alas, `Cup of Gold' never recovers from this fragmentation of plot and character, and though it is an interesting read and overall written well, in the end one mourns for possibilities undeveloped.  Certainly useful for a student of writing, though.  Three stars.	2001-12-12
US	52459466	R387PTPSA7BEE3	0679741143	337759702	Confessions of a Crap Artist	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Dick's mainstream attempt that bites deep	Over the last two decades Philip K. Dick has slowly gained in repute as one of this centuries' most inventive and prolific authors: a sci-fi auteur who cranked out pulp masterpieces by the dozen while surviving on horsemeat and methamphetamine.   There are several themes prevalent in the majority of Dick's oeuvre: paranoia, drugs, the nature of God, schizophrenic time/space variations, aliens, semi-tragic characters in often archetypical clothing.  _Confessions of a Crap Artist_, however, contains almost none of these bizarre themes; as one of Dick's stabs at the mainstream, _Confessions_ is a straightforward examination of life in Southern California the 50's, with `normal' people co-existing by `wackos,' both of whom, in typical Dick fashion, change places over the course of the novel.<br />Jack Isodore is a crap artist, a collector of crackpot theories and useless junk, a man endlessly fascinated by the world's unexplained secrets be they legitimate or not.  But he is also happy and fairly satisfied by his life, something that cannot be said for his sister-in-law Judy and her husband Charlie, painted in broad strokes as a shrew and the man she uses, respectable on the surface but narrow-minded and demented when closely examined.  Their `American Dream' lifestyle, the house and the farm and the three little kids, is altered/destroyed by manipulation and dissatisfaction with said `Dream', and when set in place next to Jack's lackadaisical routines and surprisingly strong moral fiber, the line between crazy and normal blurs with rapid intensity.  <br />Along with _The Man in the High Castle_, this is among Dick's most lucid works, and probably the place novices should start first.  Though a quick read, the implications and undercurrents of _Confessions of a Crap Artist_ should resonate within the reader for some time after completion, which, in my opinion, is the truest mark of a worthwhile book.  Recommended.	2001-11-15
US	52459466	R3L9HIU1658PRX	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Standard King, if a bit shorter than the norm	There's a saying that goes, \\"Everything under the sun has been done,\\" and considering the style-over-substance programming that has infected most of the recent mass media output, this quote has a ring of truth to it.  In most forms of entertainment, the symbols and strife of ancient myth are given a whitewash job, with modern equivalencies stenciled over to make it more palatable.  Often times the result is transparent, a good example being the latest crop of Hollywood derivatives (it almost seems as if that writer's strike did go on after all - )... but even when the story has been hopelessly canned, if the creator injects a certain amount of passion, thought and individual talent into the artistic process, oft times the results are so impressive, so emotionally resounding, that it doesn't matter than we've seen it a dozen or a hundred times before - for a short time the power and pathos captivates us, leaves us spellbound and in awe, in that state we seek entertainment for.<br />One might say that Stephen King, possibly the single most successful author of the 20th century, has mastered the ability of recycling those time-worn myths into packages of blissful escapist fun.  _The Girl who Loved Tom Gordon_ is standard paint-by-numbers King: a child in danger, a malevolent force in pursuit, and the struggle between them.  King has used this theme before: _The Shining_, _It_, _Christine_,  _The Waste Lands_, _Cujo_, _The Dead Zone_ to name a few...and, thanks in large part to a vivid imagination and strong character-building, King managed to make each of these books seem (fairly) original, unique from the other.  _TGWLTG_ is no different.  Using the `lost in the woods' archetype mixed with baseball and the power of a child's imagination, King turns this novella into a blueprint example of how to build suspense, pushing the subject (and the reader as well) to the very brink before climax/resolution.  The inclusion of the `good vs. evil' paradigm, a motif so hoary that one can't see the frost for the foundation, is strengthened by this build-up pattern; but even more important (IMO) is the introduction of the `stillness,' the meditative core that exists in all religions and (worthwhile) philosophy.  King has used it many times before in his fiction, but rarely to such effectiveness.<br />I've knocked off two stars from _TGWLTG_ for two reasons: one, that this is a novella and should really be part of a compilation (like Different Seasons), and two, King uses words and phrases that no nine year old (other than a savant) would recognize or incorporate, and the inclusion of such is jarring.  Still, this is a nice read for a kick-back afternoon. Recommended.one can't see the frost for the foundation, is strengthened by this build-up pattern; but even more important (IMO) is the introduction of the `stillness,' the meditative core that exists in all religions and (worthwhile) philosophy.  King has used it many times before in his fiction, but rarely to such effectiveness.<br />I've knocked off two stars from _TGWLTG_ for two reasons: one, that this is a novella and should really be part of a compilation (like Different Seasons), and two, King uses words and phrases that no nine year old (other than a savant) would recognize or incorporate, and the inclusion of such is jarring.  Still, this is a nice read for a kick-back afternoon. Recommended.	2001-10-14
US	52459466	R1OC8B9HJWQVQZ	0140441131	351689121	Dead Souls (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An epic 'poem', crumbling before our very eyes	Or, the agony and the ecstasy; the writer's pain and its only succor...<br />An acquaintance once commented to me that, though he possessed virtually no creative drive, he didn't envy my own abilities whatsoever: having observed the glorious highs and exhausted lows I went through, all inspired by the febrile imagination, he concluded that a balanced approach to life was far more preferable.  I was reminded of this exchange while reading the introduction to Nikolai Gogol's unfinished masterpiece, _Dead Souls_ .  Apparently Gogol was blessed/plagued with an enormous amount of creative ambition: he wanted no less than to express the flaws in the Russian character, show how they could be rectified, and in turn `save' his country from its social/economic quagmire.  But though he possessed the vision - or at least glimpses of it - the task of expressing it adequately with the quill seemed far too difficult for the poor man.  The mind's eye filled Gogol with glory and divination; it also destroyed him with self-doubt, restlessness, and inner condemnation.  Any writer worth his salt (i.e. `sensitive') will recognize these contrasting traits; will feel and intimately know the sting of art, its agony and its ecstasy.  <br />Alas, Gogol succumbed to the pressure, burning the drafts for _Dead Souls_ second book and never even starting the third concluding volume, and a few days after the conflagration Gogol passed away, probably unable to endure the destruction of his life's work.  What remains - the completed first book and fragments of the second - can be contained in a single volume, and for those interested in Russian history and Russian Literature, _Dead Souls_ is a must.<br />The first book contains much promise and is a delight to read.  I do not speak Russian and thus cannot comment on the translation, but David Magarshack, a Russian native and famous for renditions of Dostoyevsky, writes with a clear mastery of the language.  The tone is, for the most part, conversational: although there is a vast amount of description and author-asides, the writing never becomes tedious or indulgent.  Gogol's savage sense of humor and his piercing character critiques certainly help, as does a healthy dose of self-depreciation.   <br />Although on the surface the first book concerns Chichikov purchasing `dead souls' in order to gain an estate and title recognition, the emphasis is on the various landowners and commoners Chichikov meets in his travels.  Gogol's contempt for the extravagant waste of the ruling class is obvious, as is his concern for the eventual effect it would have on his country.  He modeled _Dead Souls_ on Dante's Divine Comedy, the first part being Chichikov's devious efforts to join these dissipated landowners, the second his success and subsequent fall from grace, and the third his retribution before the eyes of God, (presumably) finding happiness in simplicity. <br />The beginning and fragmented end of the second book gives the reader a few hints into how Gogol planned to erect his masterpiece.  A socialist attitude is introduced with the farmer-ideal of Kostanjoglo; Platon depicts the boredom of the born-wealthy.  Unfortunately, the quality of material is not up to par with the first book, due to a lack of an editing polish and several chopped out sections.  The `final chapter' resembles more a synopsis of events and theme-development, and is an interesting viewpoint of the writer in mid-craft.  The whole arc of the second book can be conjectured from what happens in this last chapter, so, despite its lecturing tone and poor development, it is certainly worth a read.<br />Powerful, well written, challenging and at times flat out hilarious, _Dead Souls_ is rightly regarded among the pinnacle of Russian Literature.  Less than Five Stars would do it an injustice.	2001-10-11
US	52459466	R15UBG2KJ0PPYZ	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Blue Fear beyond the Holocaust Horizon	It takes some serious mental energy to envision life as it was in 1984--not so long ago, granted, but a different era still: riding the ragged edge of the Cold War, Atari and IBM the technological dominant, the future a wide horizon of blue fear...difficult, even for one who grew up in the `excess 80's'.  But I suppose that certain patterns could be discerned by the wide-eyed and wise of that time; imagination filled in the gaps of what social evolution had yet to dictate.  For the budding Sci-fi author, I imagine the prospects of utopia/dystopia were endless and endlessly fascinating: AI, VR, cybernetics and bio-enhancements: so many possibilities as yet unexplored, as yet unexploited!<br />Thus we have William Gibson's cyberpunk manifesto _Neuromancer_, the book that spawned a whole genre by itself and prophesized a chilling existence that, some 17 years after the fact, looks very familiar.   Hackers and viral bombs? -second page news.  The Sprawl? -growing every day.  Cloning, VR, bio-enhancements? -already on the crest of the next wave.  Thus the danger of modern sci-fi and its cyberpunk offshoot: becoming as relevant as a gutter newsrag, stigmatized by well-worn clichs and the dubious nature of experimental prose.  Why would one want to spend their valuable time on yesteryear's fear?<br />Well, when yesteryear's hype contains the febrile energy and insight of _Neuormancer_, the read is worth the time spent.  Gibson fashions a world of vivid and startling imagery, the ugliness and beauty of it leaping from type to the reader's imagination with ease.  The slang and unique aspects of Chiba, the Sprawl etc. are done in a casual fashion, so that one understands the phrases and cultural particulars without getting thrown or distracted.  There is a feel of something _new_ here, even if it isn't all that new by nowadays standards; _Neuromancer_ contains a force of intellect, of testing the boundaries and coming up all aces, that buoys the reader through the overly-familiar space-opera archetypes and, in passages, the stilted self-conscious prose.  A commendable effort that still resonates, unlike most its contemporaries/derivatives.<br />But for all its hyperbole and raw intelligence, _Neuormancer_ does have its share of flaws, some glaringly apparent, others under the surface, within the structure of the novel itself.  Envisioning and detailing this dystopia was an admirable feat, especially considering the time it was written and what hindsight awards the current reader, but so much effort is given to making the environment `real' that the characters themselves--the flesh and blood constructs that the reader is supposed to inhabit, sympathize with, and ultimately understand--the characters become neglected in the process, ending up rote pulp-fiction stereotypes of passing interest.  Gibson tries to inject some pathos for Molly, Armitage and Case midway through the novel, but the attempt is strained and, because it is introduced so late, our neon-jazzed eyes glaze over the heavy `personal crisis' of the climax--we just want these archetypes (ie the author) to get back to the cool stuff they excel at.<br />The story itself is basic pulp-noir--outlaw cowboys running on societies' edge, complete with cyber-shtick saloons and the usual assortment of backstabbing betrayals--and not very interesting pulp-noir at that: both conflict and plot are ambiguous for the first half of the novel, and while Gibson's ultimate ideas are very intriguing (particularly about the cold existence of cyrogenics), the novel ultimately suffers from a crippling lack of tension.  Gibson's writing can be inconsistent, as well: though parts of the novel are extremely well written, other passages become quite convoluted in their (needless) detail.  <br />Four stars--despite its flaws, _Neuormancer_ is a seminal work, and better than ninety percent of the dumbed-down junk competing for shelf space.	2001-09-27
US	52459466	R13DN5ELFGXE3Q	1569714983	567099889	Akira, Vol. 1	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Dystopia through street-biker goggles	Amidst the flotsam and jetsam of former pop-culture sensations, there are a few items of media that, through sheer visceral creative force, transcend the 'cool one moment, clich the next' element of disposable entertainment. The Japanese manga/movie _Akira_ is among these rare and dignified. Although the movie version is cluttered and convoluted, an epic mess-and what can one expect from the effort of reducing 2000 pages into two hours?-there still remains a power and presence to it that is at once unnerving and captivating. <br />I &quot;got&quot; Akira upon my first viewing, but like many others found the movie unsatisfying on a basic level. Characters and concepts popped up out of nowhere, seemingly important to the overall arc, yet remaining undeveloped. It felt as if an enormous amount of back-story was left untold. Thankfully, Dark Horse has decided to give the manga version of _Akira_ the definitive publishing it deserves, to fill in the gaps and give us a deeper and far more gratifying glimpse into Katsuhiro Otomo's astonishing vision of dystopia. <br />And what a glimpse it is! Biker gangs roam the concrete byways of Neo-Tokyo, seeking a score or a scam or a healthy does of ultraviolence...Meanwhile, the top brass of the military attempts to keep an experimental group of growth-stunted paranormals under control. A chance run-in between these disparate tribes eventually leads to cataclysmic results, as something disturbing and long-hidden begins to stir in the bowels of the earth...Akira...and, as the movie-posters state, 'Neo-Tokyo is about to E X P L O D E.'<br />This first volume, at 360-pages, introduces us to the shell-shocked environment of Neo-Tokyo, sets up the numerous character conflicts, and gives us a few premonitions of what is to come. The relationships between Tetsuo and Kenada, Ryu and Kei, are given greater detail than in the movie, and the story, though paced slowly, is far more smooth and lucid in the manga format. <br />Otomo's art is masterful and, in places, astounding-the level of detail given to a cityscape or motorcycle shows this as truly a labor of love on the creator's part; the many hours devoted to each pages is a figure I cannot begin to contemplate. The drawings are clean and crisp and always consistent, at times cinematic in presentation. _Akira_ should be read at least twice, the first in order to digest the story, the second to fully appreciate the skill of the artist. <br />Well worth the rather steep price. And if you like _Akira_, I would suggest investigating Hiroaki Samura's _Blade of the Immortal_ and Hayao Miyazaki's _Nausicaa of the Valley of Wind_, both further examples of manga at its mature best.	2001-09-25
US	52459466	RO0356NX7PP88	0761529322	819067086	Internal Cleansing : Rid Your Body of Toxins to Naturally and Effectively Fight Heart Disease, Chronic Pain, Fatigue, PMS and Menopause Symptoms, and More (Revised 2nd Edition)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Have you cleaned your colon today?	The consequences of poor hygiene are quickly evident.  If you don't brush your teeth, they rot.  If you don't wash your hair, it gets matted and oily.  If you don't take care of your skin, there is a strong possibility of acne and, in the long run, premature aging lines.  These black-and-white rules of basic sanitation have become indelible in the modern era, championed by purveyors of social etiquette and cosmetic companies.  But what about hygiene inside the body? How does one go about cleaning out the cumulated toxins and other icky stuff built up in The Place that Shall Never Be Mentioned?    For a comprehensive guide on just such hygiene, look no further than Linda Berry's _Internal Cleaning_.  A chiropractor and clinical nutritionist, Ms. Berry has over 25 years experience in the practice of cleansing/detoxification, and a fast perusal of the topics covered and the clear, concise writing style show that she really knows what's up in the nether regions.    Berry begins with a section detailing the myriad toxins that we ingest on a day-to-day basis, some knowingly, others not: from obvious culprits like MSG flavoring and hydronized oils, to all those mysterious additives intended on extending the shelf-life; from animal steroids in the bulk of beef to the minerals and metals lurking in that clear glass of water; Berry details an astonishing amount of chemicals and carcinogenics that most probably have a detrimental effect on our health and happiness.  This section contains a breakdown of how the digestive system works, explaining what substances pass through easily and what clogs up the pipes.  Also included: environmental toxins, household toxins, pesticides and plastics, hormones and drugs.    After a simple test designed to find out the individual's current level of stress, Berry outlines a variety of cleansing programs, from simple juice fasts to powder-supplements targeting certain organs (liver, kidneys, lymph etc).  A long discourse on diet comes next, complete with a guide of healthy alternative recipes.  Berry completes the book with a section on practices that compliment these diet/cleansing techniques; an essential conclusion, but I wish she had gone in more detail about the importance of mastication, exercise, and positive thinking.    An important book for anyone concerned with keeping the body healthy & whole.	2001-09-22
US	52459466	RHELF52A0DDIE	1864501723	955728078	The Age of Kali: Indian Travels and Encounters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating &amp; Foreboding	As human society careens into a new century amidst an onslaught of technological breakthroughs, consumer (re)values and mixed-message morality, all sorts of fire-breathers and reactionaries have come out of the woodwork, ancient texts in tow, to proclaim that the \\"End of Days\\" is nigh.  Of course, such finger-wagging foreboding has been spouted by prophets/preachers for hundreds of years, but considering the rate of massive change occurring at the moment, and the massive change inevitable to come, these apocalyptic ruminations begin to have a seductive ring.  Interestingly, most of the world's religions/belief systems contain some sort of Armageddon-theory, in which the wicked and faithless will be scathed &amp; slain and their countless victims will emerge from the wreckage to claim their place in the new golden age.  Foresight into the future or control-mechanism of those behind the scenes? What better way to encourage the downtrodden and dispossessed to quietly suffer than by programming into them that their day will come?<br />So it's not surprising that in conflicted caste-ridden India, with ninety percent of its groaning 1-billion-mark masses dwelling in abject poverty, that belief of The Age of Kali is at an all time high.  Hindu cosmology proclaims that there are four successive ages, from the highest to the lowest, and at the moment the world is currently head-deep in (quote) \\"the Kali Yug, the Age of Kali, the lowest possible throw, an epoch of strife, corruption, darkness, and disintegration.\\" In his travelogue _The Age of Kali_, William Dalrymple investigates the myriad socio-political problems behind this prevalent belief, touring the subcontinent with a keen eye and clever pen.  From Untouchables in utter squalor to celebrities and drug-barons, Dalrymple details an enormous contrast of existence, sometimes literally from one page to the next.  India is a place so geographically and culturally vast that no author could hope to adequately condense it allin one volume, but this book does give the reader a fascinating glimpse of how the ramifications of the past influence the present and possible future for the Indian subcontinent.  <br />Dalrymple avoids the patronizing attitude and excessive descriptive prose of his contemporaries: each essay is clearly written, with passages of subtle elegance sliced neatly into the general flow of open-eye observations. The book is structured masterfully, as well: the topics broached are dark and disturbing, but Dalrymple segments caste-war and attempted genocide between the ridiculous posturing of India's first rap-roll star; tempers gang-rape and corruption with asides on the Hollywood-esque lifestyle of a popular harlequin writer and how the statues of ancestral Gods are bathed, shaved, and fed by devotees.  This technique makes the horrors and atrocities digestible but in no way softens their impact: in my opinion, the contrast strengthens of overall impression that India is in a very precarious position.<br />For those planning to visit India in the near future (as I am), _The Age of Kali_ is an excellent introduction.  For those simply interested in reading about a land of such baffling contradictory reports, this book is a lucid portrait of a land and people on the verge.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-18
US	52459466	R3BD03X5XFF3TS	1569715467	340526209	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 8: The Gathering	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The hunt for Anotsu Kagehisa continues...	Think it would be great to live forever? Manji, a crass ronin of eighteenth century Japan, doesn't agree.  Cursed to immortal life for prior misdeeds, he must dispatch a thousand evil men to the judgment of the Buddha in order to die himself.  Joining a young girl on her quest for vengeance against the rebellious Itto-Ryu sword school, Manji soon has dire need for his twelve blades as he faces a motley of hardened warriors, psychopaths, philosophers and just plain jokers.  The thousand-man requiem is met by the painful stroke of give-and-take; and is told in a fashion that puts most modern epics to shame.<br />In The Gathering, the seventh BoTI compilation released on western shores, Hiroaki Samura continues to experiment with his storytelling style and artwork presentation.  The character interactions are slower and more involved, the artwork less showy though always superb.  One can see a definite maturation of style between, say, _Blood of a Thousand_ and this graphic novel: the `death murals' are gone; the battles longer and more defined; the development of conflict more pronounced and, ultimately, more effective.  But some things never change, Manji's smirk and Rin's determination among them.<br />This compilation contains the first half of `The Gathering' storyline, focusing mostly on Rin's hunt for Anotsu Kagehisa, leader of the Itto-Ryu.  The action doesn't really start until the last third, when Manji must duke it out with three warriors in order to procure a travel pass from one prefecture to the next.  This quickly evolves into one of the most violent and desperate battles so far, though the reader will have to wait for the next compilation for a climax and conclusion to the story elements presented here.<br />Five stars, as always.	2001-09-13
US	52459466	RJ38U0RW14DXR	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;We live, as we dream...alone&quot;	One of the reasons I enjoy reading the classics of Literature is that they tend to highlight certain epochs and environments that no longer exist: they offer the reader a glimpse, or perhaps a longer gaze, into a way of life and society that has all but been swept away by modern sprawl and the dominance of Western culture. In Literature, one can frolic with the thieves of Victorian London, or hunt the Appalachians for red-coats; visit the Arabian peninsula a thousand years past or explore an Africa of unexploited majesty, an Africa where danger and death lurk in the sting of an insect bite or a chucked spear rather than the blight of AIDS or genocidal discord. <br />The latter example comes, of course, from Joseph Conrad's novella _Heart of Darkness_, an autobiographical work concerning the depths of the 'dark' continent relatively unspoiled by the greedy decrees of parliament, but on the verge of massive and irrevocable change. The hounds of 'progress' have penetrated but not yet subsumed, and the jungles still contain an ancient, breathtaking wildness that leaves the narrator Marlow quaking with respect and primal fear.<br />_Heart of Darkness_ contains one of the finest builds of tension I've ever experienced on the printed page. Inundated with both the boredom of long travel and the moments of inexplicable terror that Africa conjures, Marlow's slow steamboat journey into the Congo wilds becomes as torturous for the reader as it is for the narrator, an awesome build of suspense that the actual climax of the book--the arrival at Kurtz's station--cannot really match...but then, it is always the ambiguous that haunts us; the mysterious and the unknown that furrows the feverish brow. Concrete, tangible adversaries can be fought against or at least acknowledged, while the brutish designs and desires that lurk under that impenetrable canopy, that seethe within the human heart, are far more difficult to confront, defeat, and master in turn.<br />Conrad's style, short declarative sentences coupled with longer stream-of-conscious insights, is a delight to read. I enjoy this style of writing immensely, and find it communicates the central ideas of theme and story far more clearly that those with totally stripped or totally convoluted prose. _Heart of Darkness_ is told by a true master of the English language, and the fact that the author did not originally speak English makes this an even more remarkable feat-; or perhaps not, considering that Conrad was probably not exposed to any corruptions of the English language at a young, formulative age.<br />Recommended.	2001-09-03
US	52459466	RHYH25VH61R34	0786708697	240580441	The Dragon Syndicates: The Global Phenomenon of the Triads	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Insightful and in-depth thesis of the Chinese underword	Despite the cosmetic and cultural differences that separate the varied multitudes of this earth, some basic precepts hold at the core of nearly all modern civilizations: a distribution system of goods and services, a military, a ruling elite.  The presence of secret societies can also be considered among these standards: the banding of individuals to provide support and strength against the competitive wiles of foreigners and mutual enemies.  The names of these secret societies--Freemasons, Illuminati, Mafia, Yakuza--are enough to inspire envy and respect and fear and hatred and lust among those not included in their exclusive ranks, thus the popularity of fringe-writers and conspiracy theorists.  The Chinese Triads are perhaps the least documented and possess the greatest potential threat of all these myriad societies, for while the others concern themselves with the manipulation of economy and politics, the Triads have of late become steeped in all manners of vice, including the supply of that most insidious and destructive of painkillers, herion.<br />The Triads originally began as political resistance to the upstart Manchu Q'ing dynasty, then altered their goals in the 20th century to undermine/suppress the spread of the Communist agenda.  In the last fifty years these patriotic intentions have been almost totally corrupted by the drive for monetary gain via extortion, kidnapping, graft, prostitution, gambling, drag trafficking, ect.  The influence of the Triads is worldwide and they are now branching out into the lucrative possibilities of the Internet's dark underbelly, including child pornography and technologies fraud.  <br />In his book `The Dragon Syndicates', Martin Booth traces the history of the Triads, chronicling with equal import the legends, rituals, ranks and motivations of these particular secret societies.  The task of the author-historian is to combine the political, cultural and social aspects of an era and present these tangled elements in a lucid, flowing format; Booth succeeds admirably in this book, especially considering the elusive nature of the subject.  I read this as research for a science-fiction book I'm writing, but found it to be an enjoyable, if ultimately disturbing, read.  Well worth the time and money.	2001-09-01
US	52459466	R29LF7UB29J603	0451521900	525889886	Pere Goriot (Signet classics)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Scathing Expose of the Social Circus	The French author Honore de Balzac (1799-1850) wrote nearly a hundred books over the course of his relatively short life.  Most are considered part of his incomplete opus titled La Comedie Humaine (the Human Comedy), with reoccurring characters and overlapping themes.  The goal of this oeuvre was to create a panoramic view of French society, staring from the Revolution and continuing to the current (mid nineteenth century) age, exploring the aspects of country, city and military life.  Balzac believed that just as the differences of heredity and environment produce various species of animals, so did the varying pressures of society produce differentiations among human beings.  In the Human Comedy, Balzac attempted to describe and classify these human &quot;species.&quot;  <br />_Pere Goriot_ is arguably the most famous and artistically successful entry of the opus, a masterful study of a father who sacrifices his wealth and health to assure his two daughters into the hotbed of Parisian high-society.  Through the eyes of Rastignac, an impoverished youth eager to gain social success, we see Goriot's maniacal obsession to his &quot;babies,&quot; constantly succumbing to their lavish demands and paying off their debts, all the while prevented from being seen in public with them or even visiting their houses.  Goriot is deemed unfit company and a threat to the illusion of success, the latter of which being Balzacs central theme for this particular novel: <br />In the whirl of Parisian high-life, it is not so much the individual talent or intelligence or virtue one has that gives him or her a respected standing; instead, the trappings of wealth and the way in which one displays it is the standard and the rule: conspicuous consumerism for the bygone era.  And let us gaze upon the technocratic twenty-first-century pyramid of Hollywood and its ilk-with actresses famous solely for the size of their breasts, and psychos killing just to appear on television, and a whole media subculture slavishly devoted to the whims and waste and trials of the celebrity identity, it is easy to see that the game never ends, the rules never really change; in this cyclical social circus, those with the finest illusion garner the highest raves, the chance at longevity, the narcotic of fame.  Proof of that ancient adage: how much times change, how much they stay the same<br />This is an amazing book.  Highly recommended to the student of life.	2001-08-19
US	52459466	R1K1IZ8MIYD6H0	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Dated and too much &quot;Author's Voice,&quot; but a good quick read	The facet of writing known as the 'Author's Voice' is both time-honored and despised, a technique where he who writes the story steps forward and expounds his own agenda through the mouths and thoughts of his characters. The use of AV in a novel can be smooth or rough, depending on the author's ability and intelligence and the complexity of the point(s) he wishes to express. Sometimes AV is unintentional---a Catholic writer cannot help but view the world through eyes tinted by Catholicism. Other times AV is quite intentional; the author does everything in his wordsmith power to hammer into the casual reader the importance of his/her personal issues.<br />Michael Crichton's _Rising Sun,_ a bestseller in the early 1990s, is a fine example of the use of intentional AV. Crichton had an axe to grind about the rampant takeover machine that Japan had become and some inherent weaknesses of free trade, and _Rising Sun_ was, to extend the metaphor, his whetstone. The Author's Voice comes out of every character's mouth in the book, from U.S. Congressmen to lowly janitors, giving insight and informed opinion about the looming threat of Japanese dominance. The other parts of the book---a murder mystery, some family strife, and interesting examples of digital manipulation---are all done in a competent fashion, but in truth these elements feel obligatory and forced; a thin veneer to ease the rant; and the chinks and cracks show clearly beneath.<br />The material is a bit dated at this point, with Japan's economy in a long slump and its worldwide presence muted somewhat. Still, _Rising Sun_ is worthwhile because it does educate about certain cultural tendencies and business philosophies of the Japanese while sustaining the 'whodunit' atmosphere essential to a mystery. Crichton's straightforward, rather passive style also makes this a quick read. Of course, you could also watch the movie, which is paint-by-numbers to the manuscript but better paced and more involving.	2001-08-14
US	52459466	RA0UNY75KWC1H	0440164842	495342112	Noble House (Asian Saga)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Murder, Mayhem, Manipulation: Just another week in Hong Kong	It's 1963. Hong Kong business conglomerate Noble House teeters on its foundations, dangerously close to collapse. With enemies and fair-weather friends on all sides vying for a chunk of the fallout rubble, Ian Dunross Struan, tai-pan of the Noble House, must somehow wheel and deal his way into at least twenty million dollars to pay off his debts and save his inheritance. But the tai-pan's struggle is just the surface layer of story, for in _Noble House_ James Clavelle weaves an incredible amount of subplots and historical tangents into a seamless whole-a massive tome that should give the consistent reader many hours of entertainment. Included in this week and a half of Hong Kong history: cold war espionage, bank failures and hostile takeovers, stock market fluctuations, drug smuggling, kidnapping, murder, high-price concubines and the men that desperately seek to please them, horse racing with enormous sums on the line, and the ever-present threat of a sudden typhoon or earthquake to interrupt everyone's fun and put things in perspective. <br />_Noble House_ is structured in the typical novel format, being a slow, steady rise of tension and the continual addition of complications, always building the conflict and potential consequences, until release: climax and conclusion. Keeping the reader interested in both plot and characters over 350+ thousand words shows great skill on the part of the author. But what impressed me most about _Noble House_ were Clavelle's insights into the human condition: the fallible, fragile nature of both interpersonal and professional relationships; the overpowering lure of greed and lust; the strong contrasts in eastern and western thought processes. Besides the (literally) enormous entertainment found herein, the cultural and socio-political information in itself makes _Noble House_ a worthy read.<br />Interestingly, Claville predicts the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union by detailing the basic flaw in their world policy: spending vast amounts of borrowed capital on military and subversive activities while the infrastructure of the country crumbled away thanks in no small part to poor maintenance and the stifling of innovation. Given that this book was written in 1981, during one of the peaks of the so-called &quot;cold war,&quot; Clavelle's hints and insinuations resonate with a twenty-first-century hindsight.<br />Recommended.	2001-08-12
US	52459466	R25KTTUQ5Q6HGJ	093281302X	48923137	LOST CITIES OF SOUTH AMERICA (Lost Cities Series)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A tour of mystery and speculation	Through the high altitude ruins of Peru and the dust-dry deserts of Chile, across the fertile range of Argentina and the carnival-infested streets of Rio, David Childress seeks the unknown, the undetermined, the secretive and the source of strange rumors; of vanished cities and twelve-foot-tall giants; and though he finds relatively little in the way of closure for the mysteries presented in _Lost Cities and Ancient Mysteries of South America_, one must remember it is the trip, not the destination, that buoys the author along...and for the casual reader, there is much to learn.<br />Despite his hyperbolic claims, Childress is definitely not an archeologist, a profession that tends to be dry, dusty, and for the most part dull-rather, he is a shoestring traveler with a yen for history and adventure.  Which suits this material fine: instead of a `professional' report detailing one particular society as it lived and co-existed in its environment, Childress' breezy travelogue takes us through a dozen different societies, ancient and modern, with a fair amount of speculation that most academics wouldn't touch with a ten foot pole: the lost continents of Atlantis and Mu and how they relate to the rise of Inca civilization; supposed alien visitors; Amazon dinosaurs still on the prowl; a tunnel system spanning the American continent; a half-dozen myths of missing gold-hordes... nothing here that would impress the professor, but it certainly is an entertaining read, and the theories about South America's ancient colonies, including the Irish (!), Egyptians and Romans, are fun to ponder over.  <br />Moreover, Childress' tone throughout places his book above the usual alternative-history exhortations, for he takes each and every story/legend with a grain of salt, even discrediting some by pointing to obvious discrepancies.  By compiling these theories, he lets the reader sort through it all rather than try to hammer in a belief structure.  The good-natured ease of the author'svoice as he distills these legends/theories makes this tome a pleasant affair rather than tedious or obnoxious.<br />One thing did bother me: because of a variety of problems, including low funds, low energy, and the dangers involved in trekking through out of the way regions (snakes, mountain cats, cocaine smugglers), Childress doesn't actually visit the majority of the sites/cities he writes about.  This is rather disappointing, as are the numerous typos and grammatical mistakes.  One star deduction.  <br />Recommended to those interested about South America and/or alternative history.	2001-08-03
US	52459466	R12XON21V6M97L	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	29	43	N	N	Just because it's Literature doesn't mean I have to like it	There certainly seems to be a strong polarity on this page about whether this book is or is not deserving of its legendary status.  Both sides have strong points to consider.  If you watch MTV on a steady basis and think that Shakespeare guy was a dull card, don't even bother.  If you are delving into the realm of classics and want a good challenge, this might be the place to start.  But then again...<br />Ignored or scorned upon its release in 1851, Moby Dick didn't achieve fame until the mid 1920's when professional writers and scholars 'rediscovered' the book and, impressed by the sheer volume of ideas and symbolism, gradually forced this monstrous text into the popular consciousness.  Who doesn't recognize the words Moby Dick or Cap'n Ahab? -- though I'm sure the familiarity comes from watching one or two of the numerous movies based from the bare-bones plot rather than actually sitting down for a good breeze through Melville's incredibly convoluted prose.  No one that I know of *really* reads a book like this for enjoyment; it's the academic masochist's delight, the forging ground of literature.  If you can endure this, Faulkner and Dickens et al are cake in comparison.<br />Well, OK, Moby Dick is not entirely without merit: several passages are extraordinary in design and achievement, notably 'The Whiteness of the Whale,' 'The Pacific,' and a few other random gleams of astonishing prose &amp; profundity.  But then there are the endless days at sea described all too well.  And the insomnia-curing Cetology section.  And the character ambiguities and obscure symbols and layered subtexts all drained of power by a turgid style and a general inability to get to the point.  Seriously folks, I'm an avid reader who averages 10-12 books a month...Moby Dick took me five months to slog through.<br />This isn't quite as unfathomable as, say, the last works of James Joyce-most everything here is understandable.  But, as has been proven time and time again, intelligent writing is not necessarily great, or even good, writing.  To be blunt, Moby Dick is overwhelmingly boring, a self-indulgent mess.<br />Is it worth it? If you are simply interested in the story, that of a man driven to insane lengths by an unfulfilled passion, go rent one of the movies.  If you are interested in learning about human existence, I could recommend a thousand other classics to start with.  If you love whales, I mean if you are _endlessly fascinated_ by the mysteries of the abysses and its myriad denizens, go ahead and give Moby Dick a try.  If nothing else, finishing it is certainly an accomplishment to be proud of.	2001-07-31
US	52459466	RSPIDD6DAZ5YO	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	3	76	129	N	N	David Icke: The P.T. Barnum of Conspiracy Theory!	There is an interesting phenomenon occurring in the field of conspiracy theory akin to that of Hollywood Blockbuster Releases: in order to draw as many people in the seats as possible, the suits of tinsel-town have adopted the process of `bigger is better.'  Thus, the special effects explosions get grander and louder and the story theatrics become more obvious-or `dumbed down', if you will-so that the Joe Six-Pack audience is not lost halfway through.  A direct comparison can be made with those who consume a steady diet of conspiracy theory: jaded by the usual Atlantis/Aliens/Big Brother rhetoric, the readership seeks bigger and better methods for their paranoiac fix; the authors have to formulate facts and accusations of increasingly shocking manner-go _way_ over the top-in order to garner the largest percentage of an especially fickle audience. <br />David Icke is probably one of the biggest purveyors of sensationalistic counter-culture (dis)information out there.  With a pearly grin and a twinkle in the eye, he relentlessly pursues the dark and dirty truth about out world leaders...truth, that is, according to people with confirmed clinical mental diseases and fellow conspiracy theorists...and ties them all together in one enormous plot of fantastic proportions.  This one's got it all, folks: JFK (the standard), The Illuminati, the symbolic circumstances of Diana's death, the Great Seal, thousands of years of \\"higher intelligence\\" influence, and so forth and so on.  Not all of what Icke presents here is false; it's fairly obvious that the world is run by a group of wealthy individuals intent on maintaining the current status quo of privileged few/poor junk-glutted masses.  But the sheer ludicrous lengths that Icke reaches for-such as the whole 4th dimensional reptilian aliens/servants of Satan meld-and the overall gleeful tone of his expose brings this dangerously close to the level of supermarket tabloids.  <br />The largest part of Icke's appeal, I think, stemsfrom his efforts to bring it all together, condensing hundreds of years of historical paranoia into one fat text that explains (almost) everything all at one, in one thorough volume: The Biggest Secret, the bible for the victim consciousness.  I've noticed that Icke's loyal readers share similar traits, those being privileged, educated, and rabid consumers of `out there' material.  Having for the most part abandoned the conventional securities of mainstream society (religion, belief in a fair government), they are still seeking some sort of validation method to explain the unexplainable; make perfect sense of human chaos &amp; cruelty.  Thus Icke's all-inclusive tome against propaganda and programming is an attractive belief-structure, especially to those who have childhood abuse/post-traumatic syndrome issues; the rampant discourse on pedophilia and power-abuse brings in the flock of hurt and bewildered survivors.  You can't fool `em all the time, but you can get the suckers, and so we have that grinning man in the charlatan's spotlight, the P.T. Barnum of conspiracy theory.  Take a bow, Mr. Icke. <br />Three stars for imagination, amusement-factor, and the amazing chutzpah of the author.	2001-07-27
US	52459466	R3LRT178JOTGUO	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Ahh...Flophouse Philosophy with a Jug of Old Tennis Shoes	A little more than halfway through John Steinback's `Cannery Row', a biologist gives the following speech about a group of bums relaxing in the shade of a tree:<br />\\"Look at them.  There are your true philosophers...I think they survive in this particular world a lot better than other people.  In a time when other people tear themselves to pieces with ambition and nervousness and covetousness, they are relaxed.  All of our so-called successful men are sick men, with bad stomachs, and bad souls, but Mack and the boys are healthy and curiously clean.  They can do what they want.  They can satisfy their appetites without calling it something else.\\"<br />...a manifesto that rings particularly poignant in this, the beginning of a new century, the riches and ruins of the `New World Order' . <br />In style the book resembles Steinback's earlier 'The Pastures of Heaven,' alternating between characters and situations to construct an overall glimpse of a working community--but the characters of 'Cannery Row' are less eccentric and the writing is more polished, and where in 'Pastures' Steinback sought to show the cracks and flaws within the small-town facade, the theme of this particular book is the true meaning of wealth.<br />Wealth is often confused with material possessions/excess, rather than spiritual and physical health. Thus we have a vast American middle-class working countless crushing hours to obtain that new SUV and thus gain the illusion of success--which, of course, keeps out economy 'growing' and the shareholders happy, not to mention the fastfood chains and the hospitals busy. Nor is this a new manifestation of public consciousness in the high-speed information era: Steinback undoubtedly saw it taking place in the steady urban sprawl of southern California, and wrote his reaction on the printed page.<br />The wealth Steinback champions in 'Cannery Row' are simple, subtle values: the respect of friendship, giving unconditionally, forgiveness, accepting others for who they are, enjoying what you have rather than fretting about what you do not, minimizing negative stress through selfless actions and negotiations...all 'shown' rather than 'told', the mark of real talent. I give 'Cannery Row' four stars because it is a bit on the light side, and not quite in the league of Steinback's five-star masterpieces (Grapes, Winter), but this is certainly a worthy read in and by itself.	2001-07-26
US	52459466	R3VT24IGE289PF	0871353091	902264744	Elektra: Assassin (Marvel's Finest)	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Flawed but artistically compelling graphic novel	Elektra Assassin<br />As stated elsewhere, there are certain achievements in the comic-book industry that are unique to their particular field.  These could not be successfully replicated in other artistic mediums; the power and presence of the book would be diluted if not totally lost.  <br />Elektra Assassin is one such accomplishment.<br />The plot is nothing original or even exemplary: just a mishmash of conspiracy theory and pulp-noir with eastern mysticism and cold-war paranoia thrown in for good measure (this was written in the mid '80's, after all, the era of Reaganomics and Chernobyl).  As an author, Frank Miller is renown for his ability to reshape the standard clichs of the pulp genre with a fresh and inventive approach; Sin City et al worked precisely because although he stayed true to the style, Miller injected a much needed dose of personal passion in the process... breathing life into a decades-dead corpse.  As far as this story goes, however, Elektra feels more like a training session than the professional end result, Miller &quot;getting his feet wet&quot; before launching into his darker and more successful works.  <br />But then, story is only half the appeal of the comic format, and Bill Sienkiewicz's mixed-media art is what elevates Elektra to the graphic-novel pantheon, not quite attaining the crown glory of Watchmen or the Dark Knight but coming very close.  Using paints, heavy inks, pencils, photo-manipulation and a host of other tricks, Sienkiewicz forges Elektra into a visual feast.  The skewed 'surrealistic' perspective offers many delights to the jaded eye--the picture of the cherubs totting pistols and mac-10's alone had me in stitches.  The art saves this collaborated effort, turning mediocrity into a near masterpiece. <br />In the end, is Elektra Assassin worth the price? Considering that Sienkiewicz's efforts (other than New Mutants, another worthy buy) are incredible difficult and expensive to obtain, I'd say yes.  But if you are more story-oriented and new to Frank Miller's work, one should first start at Dark Knight Returns and the early Sin City.  For hardcore enthusiasts, this should not be passed up.  The art is unlike anything else out there and Miller's creation of Garrett could be considered the hardboiled prototype for Marv and Dwight (from Sin City fame).<br />Art, five stars.  Story, three.  Round it out and that's what you see...	2001-07-25
US	52459466	RBY67IKLMNREY	096441841X	317327723	Land of the Firebird: The Beauty of Old Russia	Books	5	152	158	N	N	Well worth the price	I first read this magnificent tome on Russian history and culture in 1997.  As it was part of a history class in college, the first read was a bit of a drag...page after page of description concerning the minutia of Russian life: clothes, churches, meals, religious &amp; superstitious rituals, architecture, commerce, political strife, and so on.  Really, with the whirl of the Social Circus of that college year, trudging through all this obscure information brought me no end of grief and silent lamentation!  To think of all that time I could have been out with friends looking to score whatever cheap release was on hand or burning inside...spent instead sludging through *detailed history*!<br />Cut to four years later...<br />I'm going to Russia.  In two weeks.  Like so many other unplanned affairs that seem to formulate out of nowhere and take one by the lapels, shoving one screaming into the storm of life, this reviewer took it in stride and decided to find some quick-but-informative text on the destination in mind--especially one with such contradictory reports as Mother Russia.  Thus, I dug this out of my library and began anew, stifling a faint unpleasant feeling no doubt inspired by those long sleepless college nights.  There had to be some merit here, yes?<br />Oh yes.<br />'Land of the Firebird' is a WONDERFUL and ENGAGING in-depth look of Russian history from 987-1917, spanning the ascension of Vlad and the Orthodox Church to right before the Revolution.  With colorful prose Suzanne Massie details the variety of Russian existence--tsars and serfs and merchant-princes and babushkas--no stone is left uncovered as she cross-references nearly a thousands years, writing with equal consideration of art, poetry, country-life, court-life, politics and its myriad games, myths and legends, influence &quot;outside the sphere.&quot;  It would be impossible to truly set down the full range of Russia experience for this time in the 450 pages allotted the reader, but the author does an admirable job in covering the major shakers and movers and events while sparing a considerable amount of print for the minor peoples and patterns that set the foundation of this ancient, troubled country.  It certainly put an interesting light on what I saw come the spring of '01.  <br />Indispensable for the casual student of Russia.	2001-07-19
US	52459466	R34ZQ0GM1JDNBC	0140184929	851296858	Brighton Rock (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fancy a sip of Vitriol?	`Hale knew, before he had been in Brighton three hours, that they meant to murder him.'<br />Thus begins Graham Greene's novel Brighton Rock: a dramatic statement of impending violence.  This, ladies and gentlemen, is what is commonly referred to as the `hook.'  Most authors seek some sort of hook to draw a reader immediately into their personal work, and with the increasing fragmentation of the average US attention span thanks to split-second commercials, heavy sugar intake (rush/crash), and hyper-edited blockbuster movies from MTV graduates, the `hook' has become the focal point for the marketers of mass-media entertainment, the defining degree of art's worth: how can it be sold? -And so I was lured into Brighton Rock...but thankfully, there was quite a bit of substance under the gang-war/urban decay veneer. <br />At Brighton Rock's core seethes the conflict between the opposing characters of Ida and Pinkie, Yin and Yang given flesh-there is Ida, carefree and cheerful, sexually aware and open, living day to day without a care for the future and content to dwell among the squalid and stupid.  Then we have Pinkie, whose burning drive for as-yet unachieved material success and his repulsion for the sexual act via Catholic programming combine to create a tense, inwardly tormented youth who obsesses over the future and disguises his inadequacies with bravado and contempt.  Pinkie is misery personified, masculine impulse and intellect stifled and thus soured to the degree that the only `joy' Pinkie feels is pride in his ability to manipulate, terrorize, and take the life from his fellow human beings.  Greene skillfully shows us the divide between Pinkie and Ida through habits, conversation pieces, inward musings and, of course, physical actions.  In that he makes theses two, who could so easily become rote stereotypes, startlingly _human_ is a clear testament of Greene's skill-I've known both a Pinkie and an Ida in my time, and so I imagine have you.<br />Though Brighton Rock does not contain the hedonism of other 20th century books of similar vein-Trainspotting and A Clockwork Orange come to mind-this is to the book's ultimate advantage, for Greene's strength as a writer comes from his not-so-subtle statement on the human condition.  Gratuitous scenes of vice would only serve to distract from the points made...and one need not be subtle to be effective.  Greene's style of writing is a bit different from his contemporaries of that era: near-stream of conscious descriptive interludes are firmed up with simple but effective prose that says what it has to without a single unnecessary word.  Like most books that can be considered in the Literature genre, Brighton Rock gives us a snapshot view into a time and place and way of life that has vanished in the rapid succession of progress...and the fact that he states it so lucidly puts Greene's work, in my opinion, above the obtuse efforts of the `celebrated' Melville, Joyce, Dostoyevsky, etc. <br />Highly recommended.	2001-07-17
US	52459466	R255HOCMOKCK0M	156971469X	540929794	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 6: Dark Shadows	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Everything changes after this...	In 'Dark Shadows', everything changes for this multiple award-winning manga.  For those new to _Blade of the Immortal_, flick over to the first of the series, 'Blood of a Thousand'.  An understanding of what has gone on before is essential to fully enjoy this sixth graphic-novel installment.<br />Before, the story arcs of BotI fell into a comfortable pattern: Rin and Manji wandering around until they met a member of the Itto-ryu; the usual banter and posturing before blades are drawn; Manji getting carved on to lesser or greater extent; Rin struggling with and attempting to moralize what is essentially a revenge killing spree.  Using this pattern, Samura explored a number of themes, such as obsession/compulsion ('Conflict'), ethics ('Cry of the Worm'), duty ('Dreamsong'), redemption ('On Silent Wings').<br />With 'Dark Shadows', however, Samura dramatically changes the formula, and just in time.  Not that the story was getting stale--far from it--but some overall progression was needed, and here we have it: in this volume characters and situations are introduced that will effect the rest of the work as a whole (12 or so compilations worth in Japan), and Anotsu Kagehisa slowly begins to take his place as the manga's true protagonist, a man willing to do anything to save his country from what he perceives as steady stagnation.  If there are casualties along the way, so be it. <br />Manji and Rin show up only in the last third, and there isn't much in the way of 'action' (at least in comparison to bloody epics like 'Dreamsong'). Still, one can feel a tension slowly building under the surface, a conflict-in-waiting that explodes in the next comp, 'Heart of Darkness.'  And the repercussions of this volume are long-standing; in terms of plot development, this the most important volume (next to the first, of course)released so far.   Not to be missed or overlooked.	2001-07-10
US	52459466	R1BF16U9J2KL4A	0886779774	490158599	Sea of Silver Light (Otherland #4)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	*Whew!*	My, my...after 2100+ pages of virtual madness, we come at last to the final volume of Tad William's 'Otherland' epic.  And, true to form, William has made the climatic/concluding volume a massive 900 page monster explicitly designed to devour time and oh yes lest I forget answer those hundred or so plot-threads and plot-questions introduced in the first three volumes.<br />Sigh.<br />To be perfectly honest, I enjoyed this book, frustrating experience though it was.  Tad has a penchant for overstatement and he never met a simile he didn't love (or try to wriggle in an otherwise clean and stylish sentence), but he _is_ a talented author with an extremely fertile imagination.  Some would say that is the best part about him, others claim it the worst.  I straddle the fence on this one.  One thing that cannot be disputed: as proven in his past series 'Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn,' Tad knows how to write a dramatic climax. _Sea of Silver Light_ cements this reputation--the last 400 pages are a marvel, and I read them all in two sittings, unable to put the text down.<br />There are some problems, however:<br />Character development.  Expecting insight into the &quot;lesser&quot; POV's like Florimel and T4b? Sorry.  These (and others) remain cardboard cutouts, used primarily for info-dump and emotional melodrama. <br />The first half of the book drags along rather slowly--you can *feel* the climax starting to coalese, but it takes 500 pages to initiate it! And like _MoBG_, parts of this book feel padded, with Williams creating situations simply to keep some of his characters busy while he struggles to bring it all together (Dodge City in particular evoked &quot;been there, done that&quot; feelings).<br />With it all said and done, I find myself with those who state that Tad should have condensed Otherland into three volumes.  Perhaps not as much money for the author in the long run, but a strong editing rinse would certainly have made this more palatable and enjoyable.  But hey, at least he didn't pull a 'Robert Jordan' (*knock on wood*)!	2001-07-09
US	52459466	R3ALB091GAOLGU	0679750150	483468836	The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A hard eye towards stagnation	This is a fascinating book, short and simple (at least by the translation), but brimming with intelligence and conflict.  Those familiar with Yukio Mishima's personal history will find the author's voice in many parts of the text, sometimes whispering, sometimes shouting, angry yet elusive, full of passion and contradiction.  Thus reflects the age of Japan that Mishima endured, and the life he lived.<br />As I wrote before, this is a simple book--it only took me a day to read--but it leaves a strong impression afterward and raises many questions that are not so easily answered.  Listing the various themes presented would be exhausting, and pointless for the nature of this review; let me instead state: <br />Humans, men in particular, struggle with vague but passionate concepts of 'glory' and 'living on the edge.' We seek, in some form, to achieve the status of greatness, a golden ideal expounded in everything from ancient myths to the most recent Hollywood flicks playing at the local Cineplex.  However this stature is to be achieved, be it through numerous sexual conquests or high-risk sports or simply taking pride in drinking one's compatriots under the table, men are compelled to make something _more_ out of themselves than what they actually are at the moment; to create their own myths that will live on in the annuls of history.  But what happens when those dreams and ambitions slowly fade, become the dust of youth, often because they were never fully realized or focused in the first place? What happens when the 'warrior' begins to stagnate?<br />Noboru, a young child living with his mother, creates a list of 'crimes' his new stepfather Ryuji has committed in the span of their short relationship, ranging from refusing to boast to adapting western clothes.  Ryuji threatens Noboru's ideals of the perfect male: strong, unbending, free.  Ryuji's willing domestication cannot continue.  Ryuji must be punished; he must be saved from himself.  <br />Well worth the time to read, even if you find yourself disagreeing with the author's assertions.  Mishima's finest and most fully realized book was _Snow Spring_, and I would recommend that first, but for a true insight into his personal philosophy, _The Sailor who fell from Grace with the Sea_ does it perfectly.   I can only wonder how Mishima would react to Japan as it is now...	2001-07-09
US	52459466	R1G2PJJPDZ43F3	1569715319	412843538	Blade of the Immortal, Vol. 7: Heart of Darkness	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Grim Masterpiece	Blade of the Immortal.  Over the past several years this award-winning translation of a fairly-obscure Japanese manga has slowly gained in popularity on these shores, due to well-crafted storylines, believable and multi-dimensional characters, and breathtaking art of cinematic scope.  Going far beyond the standard genre archetypes, BotI details the human struggle with honor, morality, society, history, personal choice and the individual's need for freedom vs. security.  Sound intimidating? Actually, herein lies Hiroaki Samura's real genius: disguising these universal themes in smart, funny, tragic, insightful, and very often violent episodes that most anyone can read and enjoy.  BotI is simply brilliant, a staggering work of art.<br />I'm not going to go into the foundations, the &quot;what's gone on before&quot; summery.  If you are new to BotI, seek out _Blood of a Thousand_ and start there.<br />In this, the seventh volume published so far, Rin and Manji join forces with the mysterious Mugai-ryu, a group of self-confessed &quot;bums&quot; aggressively hunting the rebellious Itto-ryu.  The first half of this long story-arc contains further development of the new characters introduced in _Dark Shadows_, along with several humorous episodes (the initial &quot;showdown&quot; between Manji and the Mugai-ryu; Rin cleaning Manji's ears), all while enacting a slow, steady build-up of tension.  Then comes the second half...a graphic but not (I stress this) gratuitous scene of extreme violence that totally subsumes anything that has come before in this manga.  It may be difficult to endure this particular succession of scenes upon the first read, even despite the sinister comic overtones (Shira's macho banter); yet I implore the reader to continue on to the last three pages, when everything falls into place, every drop of blood becomes part of a disturbing yet essential mosaic.  Samura shows us the darkest side of passion, and the horrific images from before hammer Giichi's final point into the casual reader with gut wrenching precision.  Stark, stunning genius.	2001-07-07
US	52459466	R1LPNY17SPPQ94	0451408462	328192380	Drop Dead Gorgeous	Books	1	9	12	N	N	Drop Dead Awful	Oh boy, where to start?  Well, if you like poor writing, utterly predictable romance settings &amp; situations, melodramatic dialogue of the usual Harlequin archetype, and one-deminsional characters ripped directely from a soap opera (the author even has her darlings compare themselves to 'The Bold and the Beautiful'--not once but two or maybe three times!), then this book is for you.  Me, I read it out of desperation, being stuck in an English-Void while vacationing in Russia.  Needless to say, I felt my IQ diminish rapidly with each painful page to the obvious climatic 'confusion/resolution.'  In fact, the characters were so banal that half-way through I began rooting for the killer to succeed in his malevolent plan...until he was revealed as just as shallow as those he was knifing and strangling.  Bah.  I shed tears for all the trees slaughtered to fill the bestseller shelves with this worthless pulp.  I hope the author enjoys her new SUV...	2001-07-04
US	52459466	R1P457GVKDVY2L	0452262143	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stunning	This is is an exceptional volume in an exceptional series, and in my opinion is the best of the 'Dark Tower' books so far.  Why? One word: Pacing.  Some reviewers on this page have claimed that this book 'dragged'  and was 'boring,' but I disagree: from the sweat-inducing desperation of  'the prisoner' trying to ditch 2 kilos of coke on a 747 and the subsequent  gangster shoot-out, to the cold precision of the gunslinger's efforts to  aquire bullets and medicene in 1970's New York, this book never stops.  <br />-The Drawing of the Three- also contains humor that is lacking in the  later books. <br />Minor flaws: 'The Lady of the Shadows' was slightly slow,  but torturous fun, all the same.   More difficult to contain are the  inaccuracies of time: if Mort was about to push Jake (via 1977) how could  he have pushed Odetta 'three years before,' which would have been in 1959?  There are a few others, to, but this book is such a fantastic ride through  King's imagination that I can't feel insulted.  <br />The prose in the  'Gunslinger' is more evocative, 'The Waste Lands' and 'Wizard and Glass'  both have their ups and downs, but this is King at his best.	1998-12-18
US	52459466	R3JJUO06GTP56X	0452279178	511631376	Wizard and Glass (Dark Tower) (Vol IV)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	A poor chapter	I would have given this volume a higher rating except for two extreme factors that seriously crippled this chapter in the Dark Tower series: the art, and espicially the ending.<br />I read 'The Gunslinger' when I was 13 and  found myself enraptured in the evocative world 'that had moved on,' a cross  between dark fantasy and T.S. Elliots nightmarish 'The Waste Lands,' a  world in which Demons and sexualy charged oricles and 'Hey Jude' co-existed  in a slowly unraveling tapestry of the American West, one corrupted far  more than any Longarm (TM) writer could dream.  Lucid yet baffling, simple  in prose and stirring in theme, I, well, I didn't quite fall in love, but  it was a damn-good book.<br />The art by Micheal Whelan was incredible, the  best this series has seen. I still get chills from the last portrait, with  Roland gazing into the future: the dark tower rearing over a dying  sun...<br />'The Drawing of the Three' is my personal favorite.  King puts you  in the book...from Roland's poisoned struggle across a never-ending beach,  with mutate lobsters nipping at his heels (and fingers)...to the junkie  withdrawl of Eddie Dean...to a sick psychotic's private ruminations.  The  pace is incredible, building the action in several places to a point that  the climax for the reader becomes otherworldly.  Most notible of this is  'The Pusher.'<br />The art by Phil Hale wasn't bad.  Not up to Whelan, but it  suited the book with its bleak colors and strange settings.<br />Things went a  bit downhill in 'The Waste Lands.'  The beginning was actually very good,  with the mental paradox of Roland/Jake and the whole rose concept.  Unfortuantly the ending in the ruined city of Lud was just like so many  other f/SF books, movies, and comics I've seen before.  The thing best  about this series was the (relative) originality, but Lud brought this  series kicking and screaming into--dare I say it?--boredom.  Blain wasn't  bad, in fact, an excellent 'cliff-hanger' conclusion.<br/>The art... well, I  don't remember the artist's name, and probably 'cause it sucked.  I mean,  that picture with the bullet 'blasting' out of the barrel is worth nothing  except giggles.<br />Now here we are, with -Wizard and Glass- the fourth tome  in fifteen years, and unfortuantly the shadow of Lud hangs heavy over  certain areas of this book.  The 'borrowing' from classical literature  before succeeded because King molded it to his own twisted stamp.  Here he  borrows without twist, without interest.  The 'Gollum' ending to Blain was  not good.  Not at all.  And to think it started so good (&quot;those  electric blue eyes...&quot;).<br />Actually, the quality of -Wizard and Glass-  picks up after this anti-climax, and the image of a translucent castle  standing forth in the mists of the thinny provokes some of that old magic.  The meat of the book--Roland and Susan's romance--is good if overlong.  But  the ending...!  HORRIBLE  !  The Wizard of Oz thing was so blatantly stupid  that I had to put the book down in disbelief.  Red slippers! Is this where  this series is going? Once so forebodingly beautiful, it is now silly and  stupid.<br />The art...is inappropreate to the major theme of the book.  His  art would have been perfect for 'The Waste Lands,' but here it gives no  illumination.  And the best painting, the one at the end with the note,  isn't even included in the mass-market version (I shelled out 50 buck on  the Donald Grant version, eager to discover the fate of Blaine.  &quot;I  hates you forever...&quot;hahaha)<br />King's still got it, evident in certain  passages of this book (notably the stand-off in the bar).  Lets hope the  next returns to the standard of before.	1998-12-09
US	52459466	R36QBNXDDNOI8U	0785106618	967489312	Essential X-Men, Vol. 3 (Marvel Essentials)	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Ah...for the Old Days	At the risk of sounding like a complete fuddy-duddy (at the ripe age of 23), I hold this book and Essential #2 and sing to myself of the good ol days, when charicters were drawn in relative proportion, and eye-jarring  color, atrocious pencils, and mediocre writing did not have a place in the  world of the X-Men.  I still browse the comics section at the local  bookstore to keep abreast with the merry mutants, but it is often a painful  journey, trying to make sense of the over-complicated, unoriginal art and  the dumbing-down style of writing.  Actually, I have come to enjoy Uncanny  these days, but make it a basic policy to ignore the other ten or so X  titles.<br />This volume displays all the elements missing these days in the  X-Men.  Good stories, good art (if in black and white here), and a general  sense that you could pick up the book at any place, understand, and enjoy  the story unfolding.  These days that is a patent impossiility, with such  discordant threads as Onslaught et all to forever linger a sickening taint  on this once grand series.  Actually, I stopped reading around the  Executioner's song.<br />These are the X-men you should buy and relish, not  the expensive replicas now on display.  (3.00! What the #$@!?! I remember  when good stories existed at 40 or 50 cents!) <br />Not as good as the  Claremont/Byrne collection of Essential #2 (Which rivals 'Watchmen') but  pretty damned good.  And it has Rouge, if even as a bad girl.	1998-12-09
US	52459466	R187FZQT3P5PZZ	0785106626	697773607	X-Men: Crossroads	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Good Stuff	Wow...here the X-men pose on the thin boundry between excellent and awful.  This documents the last few issues Claremont wrote before splitting after a 17-year span, and is, quite simply, sublime.  Magneto struggles with  power and nobility! The foxy Rouge returns! The competitive patter between  Gambit, Wolvie and that cutie Jubellie! The sight of Wolvie riving his  claws deep into Professer 'Chuck's' chest! Ah, what rapture...and the art!  Jim Lee is incredible, as always.  He and Liefeld pretty much started the  horrendous trend of disportionate art, but Jim's at least is  plausible.<br />To see Claremont's progress, read the first 10 or so issues in  Essential X-Men #1, then read this fine collection of five issues.  Make  Mine Marvel (at least till '91)	1998-12-09
US	52459466	R10K7K6SLRLOOG	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Political Fantasy	Simply amazing.  Not only does this offer all the basic requirements for a fantasy epic--vast world, colorful history/myths,a very complex and wonderfully decietful political backdrop... but Martin's prose in among the  best, far better than most the filler on the shelves these days.  The  descriptions are vivid and lush. Best of all, he really gets into the  skulls of the charicters and makes them breath, fear, hate, and love.  Recomended.	1998-11-07
US	52459466	R1X234GFA0L5HT	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Inconsistent	Has anyone noticed that Jordan is writing less and taking far longer to  deliver?  The Path of Daggers barely breaks 600 pages, and there are less  words on each page than previous efforts--LoC (book 6) and TSR (book 4),  espicially.  Worse, this book is inconsistent in pacing and description,  and resembles ACoS (b. 7) in that the first half of the book plods along  with lots of detail to the clothes and govermental rank and the facial  expressions of the charicters.  The pages just fly by wihtout a whole lot  happening.  Then the action takes off in the second half of the book in a  way that is almost too abrupt.  I wonder if Jordan took a long hiatus  between the first half and the second....* That said, Path of Daggers is  not a bad book, but neather does is approach the standard of books 1-4.   Much of it is Jordan resolving certain power-struggles and derailing Rand's  sanity.  Unfortuantly, the tremendous detail assigned to clothing ect.  leaves many charicters missing in action: Mat Cauthon, Thom, Galad and  Gawyn, Loial, the Aiel Clan-Chiefs, certain Forsaken, that fellow with the  memory-loss in Ebou Dar (book 7). Still, the ending (ironically titled  'beginings') leaves much promise for book 9, and 10, and 11, and 12.  With  the number of dangling plot strands, I don't think he could successfully  accomplish this monster by book ten.	1998-10-25
US	52459466	RN3ITOBB4TD2O	0312867875	860649477	Legends: Stories By The Masters of Modern Fantasy	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Mixed effort--some excellent, others, well...	I'll be honest--I bought this book on the strengths of Jordan, Williams,  and King, so it is not surprising that these are what I consider the cream  of the crop in this collection. King's 'Little Sisters' was well written if  somewhat predictable.  I think he could have done more with this idea,  though the ending was masterful. Williams' &quot;Burning Man' adds flavor  to the sweeping MS&amp;T saga... and Jordan, who releases this short story  about Lan and Moiraine rather timely, with fantasy fans salvating over the  soon-to be released &quot;Path of Daggers..&quot; Espicially good in this,  'New Spring,' is the charicterization of a youger, less matured Moiraine   Several other stories were simularly enthralling: Martin's 'Hedge Knight,'  LeGuin's 'Dragonfly' (is she sure the last book of Earthsea has been  written?) and Silverberg's 'Seventh Shrine.' I have never written Card, and  while 'Grinning Man' was somewhat unimpressive, the ideas of Alvin Maker's  world are intriguing... Goodkind's 'Debt of Bones' is worlds better than  'Wizard's First Rule', though still suffering simular faults in overlong  verbose descriptions of pointless tangents and one-dementional  charicters... I have never read Ann McCaffery, and for her story 'Runner of  Pern'...suffice to say it was the only one I didn't bother finishing.  Prachet's 'Little Fishes' was amusing, though I usually don't go for  fantasy humor. Finally is Fiest's 'Wood Boy', well deserving to be at the  bottem of the list.  Having enjoyed the RiftWar saga I expected much more;  this story was not only pointless but also poorly written.  Very  disappointing. Some of 'Legends' is good, some excellent, and some crap.   Worth the price.	1998-09-28
US	52459466	R1AK0MSZFA92KB	0451084306	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Worth reading	A complex, stirring book that hits the reader on a multitude of levels,  -Doctor Zhivago- achieves for Boris Pasternak the true desire of an  author--to give an insight on the world we live in and the people that  populate it, to express lessons and morals discovered by the author (in his  perspective) and painstakingly exact them from the gray matter to paper. *   Russian life and russian struggle is the theme of Pasternak's masterpiece;  he tells the story of the russian revolution through not only his central  protagonists but also through a myriad of random charicters that flitter in  and out of his vivid, sometimes hallucinary prose.  At times this is  distracting, espicially with the long and difficult to pronounce names, but  as a whole it creates a vision of a time and society that no longer exists  except in tomes such as this.  *  In fact, the names are the only reason I  do not award this book a full rating of five: in the version I read the  charicters were named at times by their first, later by their last, in  seemingly random order, which grew confusing. *  Other than that, Doctor  Zhivago is a rich and rewarding text worth reading.	1998-09-23
US	52459466	R2KU9CTHYGIUCD	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	1	17	24	N	N	Awful	Personally, I found this to be the absolutly worst fantasy book I have ever read.  The first two or three pages seemed to be decently written and I settled myself in for another good epic.  Wrong.  The prose deteriorated quite quickly; I couldn't help but flinch dozens of times at the sub-standard writing.  In fact, the only reason I finished this book is because I don't like leaving things incomplete. ***        After a while as I 'adjusted' and simply ignored the numerous faults, I found that the story itself wasn't really that bad--though hopelessly derivitive--but unfortuantly Goodkind was unable to instill any sense of wonder or plausible image through most of the adventures.  I nearly laughed out loud at the Southhaven section.***     One thing that I admire in fantasy novels are well-crafted worlds with in-depth histories and myths provided.  Goodkind produces only the most shallow of these, reducing any pleasure found. ***  Overall, the book struck a inauthentic note within--it felt false and plastic in my brain, like any of those paint-by-number action movies Hollywood continues to spew out.  The only scenes that did feel that the author might have experience in were the S&amp;M sequence with the Mord-Sith; unfortuantly this quickly grew boring and excessive, even ridiculous.      I find the number of positive reviews for this kind of drivel is disturbing, and to all those out there that will undoubtably contest my opionion, I recommend Tad Williams, Fiest (Rift-War series), Tolkien (of course), and the one that Goodkind desperatly wishs to emulate but pathetically fails: Robert Jordan.  All of these are examples of quality in this genre.    I cannot bring myself to continue this series.  The charicters are obvious and sometimes idiotic, the 'lessons' Goodkind attempts to write about are poorly integrated (SHOW, not TELL), and the inauthenticy makes me feel that I've wasted my time with this 'material.'  This is espicially offensive to me because I am a fledging author myself and would rath! er not have this kind of influence to subconsciously degrade my own skills...you are the product of your experiences, after all.	1998-07-05
US	52459466	RGVI5HP2EG7R6	0886777771	445199901	River of Blue Fire (Otherland, Volume 2)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Without a doubt...	Tad Williams is, simply, one of the greatest (if not the greatest) among the writers currently toiling in the genre of fantasy/science fiction.  In fact, I am hesitant to even think of the OTHERLAND books as part of the genre; in no way can it be compared to the usual tripe: Eddings, Goodkind, or the run of the mill Dragonlance filler.          Having this opinion, I approached River of Blue Fire with some hesitancy, remembering what I disliked most about his previous series Memory, Sorrow and Thorn--while the first volumn was captivating, the pace and structural backbone of the following two books slowed to a crawl and became, at times, needlessly complicated.  Happily, the second volumn of OTHERLAND does not suffer these (small) fallicies; in fact, though enormous and complex, the above review by Kirkus is astonishing.  I found my time and attention consumed by this book--at times I forgoed sustience and rest to explore deeper the bewitching qualities and hidden beauties burried within.  One scene I will use for an example is where Dread finds the 'dreamtime.'  Though the actions are horrific, Tad portrays the charicters psyche so well that I found myself in collaberation with this sick serial killer, lusting, feeling, tingling with the rush of ardrenilene...        This book is a marvel, full of vivid imagination and clever prose.  On the surface River of Blue Fire is a deliciously overwhelming adventure that is threaded with the subtle themes of humankind, of how we interact with the world around us and winthin us; themes interwoven in any great novel.  At completion I wondered how Tad planed to finish this monster in simply four books...	1998-07-05
