US	52465175	R1CE83YZ8STPMD	0553584502	303170656	The Taking	Books	1	10	17	N	N	Zombies who quote T.S. Eliot	I don't bother to write many one-star reviews. Usually, if a book or movie has a weak or cliched plot and characters, contrived scenes or a lame ending, I either don't bother to review it at all or give it two or three stars. The Taking, however, in addition to  having all of the above flaws, is hypocritical and pretentious. I was never a big fan of Dean Koontz; he has the annoying habit of inserting opinionated tirades in the middle of his books. Some of his other novels at least have some compensating factors, such as a compelling story. The Taking, however, does not even have this. Most of it is essentially material taken from low budget science fiction and horror movies of the last half century. A couple, Molly and Neil, awaken in the early morning in their secluded California home sensing something is wrong. An unseasonable and severe storm rages, and apparently most of civilization has been mysteriously wiped out. An unlikely and contrived anomaly here is that electrical power, including television, remains going for quite some time. In rural areas I have lived, the power often goes out at the start of an ordinary thunderstorm; here, it manages to persist through an apocalypse. This conveniently allows the people and readers to learn what is going on worldwide. I listened to the audio version of this book. One advantage (or sometimes disadvantage) of listening to audio-books is that hearing the words spoken immediately exposes stilted or awkward dialogue. In The Taking, much of the dialogue comes across like lectures or sermons. Neil's character, in particular, sounds somber and sanctimonious. The narrator's performance, of course, has something to do with this, but considering the dialogue she had to work with I doubt if it could have been improved much.<br /><br />Koontz feels the need to constantly remind readers that his plot is similar to many science fiction stories. This fact is rather obvious when we see giant fungi, zombies and man-eating insects roaming the earth. Koontz mistakenly believes that by referring to movies where similar things happen, he is avoiding cliches. This brings us to one of the ways I find his style hypocritical. His book is full of tirades against the corruption and superficiality of modern society, yet his book relies heavily on the postmodern gimmick of self-reference. Just as ironic horror films such as Scream attempt to rise above their genre by having characters who are very aware of the predictable cliches of their predicament, Koontz uses popular science fiction as the basic frame of reference. Yet, while films like Scream are full of irony, Koontz's style is grim and devoid of humor. He sees himself as some kind of prophet whose mission is to expose the corruption of the world. Many of his asides and commentaries have the shrill tone of a conservative AM talk radio host. The book is also full of gruesome violence. This in itself is not an objection, but in the case of this book, there is the issue of hypocrisy once again. One minute, Koontz rails against the evils of the world, the next he revels in them. He doesn't merely use gore and violence to scare and shock readers, like most writers or horror and suspense; he wants us to believe that these atrocities are an intrinsic part of the modern world and its materialism, selfishness and immorality. Yet for someone who supposedly wants to transcend the darkness of this world, he is awfully good at dredging up horrific and ghastly images.<br /><br />I also mentioned that the book is pretentious. You might ask how a book about mutant mushrooms, zombies and giant bugs bent on world domination can possibly be pretentious, and I admit it's a difficult task, but Koontz manages it. For one thing, he constantly uses long and exotic words where simpler ones would suffice. As a rule, the author of a novel should be almost invisible. Between showing off his grand vocabulary and giving his opinions on everything from architecture to the decline of Western civilization, Dean Koontz is just too much of a presence in his own novels, especially this one. Then there are the many quotes by T.S. Eliot (who, if he were still living, would probably sue Koontz for using his work in this book). Eliot's poems are quoted before each section, by Molly and Neil and even by undead murder victims. Having zombies quote lines of poetry might work as a kind of absurdist humor, but, as I mentioned, humor is not part of Koontz's arsenal. He presents it all with a perfectly straight face, which sometimes (but not often enough) makes the book unintentionally funny. To cap it all off, the end comes with no plausible explanation of the fantastic events that took place. I don't believe in revealing endings, even of books I like as little as this, so I will only say that everything is explained away in a vague and trite way. Worse yet, the ending confirms what the rest of the book implies --that Koontz is trying to make some kind of grand metaphysical statement. The Taking could be used as a textbook on how not to write a novel.lization, Dean Koontz is just too much of a presence in his own novels, especially this one. Then there are the many quotes by T.S. Eliot (who, if he were still living, would probably sue Koontz for using his work in this book). Eliot's poems are quoted before each section, by Molly and Neil and even by undead murder victims. Having zombies quote lines of poetry might work as a kind of absurdist humor, but, as I mentioned, humor is not part of Koontz's arsenal. He presents it all with a perfectly straight face, which sometimes (but not often enough) makes the book unintentionally funny. To cap it all off, the end comes with no plausible explanation of the fantastic events that took place. I don't believe in revealing endings, even of books I like as little as this, so I will only say that everything is explained away in a vague and trite way. Worse yet, the ending confirms what the rest of the book implies --that Koontz is trying to make some kind of grand metaphysical statement. The Taking could be used as a textbook on how not to write a novel.	2005-10-08
US	52465175	R2O4VOVIHQLV75	0375507582	272723347	Counterculture Through the Ages: From Abraham to Acid House	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Very readable, informative look at a fascinating topic	This is a thoroughly enjoyable, intelligent and thought-provoking look at the phenomenon of countercultures through history. Ken Goffman (aka R.U. Sirius), without oversimplifying his subject, has a style that is very accessible and engaging. By necessity, as the authors (it is co-written by Dan Joy) admit, this is a brief and incomplete look at a vast topic, one that could fill an encyclopedia. Yet what is included here leaves the reader with a surprisingly comprehensive idea of what a counterculture is, how they have influenced history and interacted with mainstream cultures.<br /><br />The authors start with ancient times, looking to Prometheus and Abraham as examples of early rebels, then go on to look at Taoists, Sufis, Zen masters and medieval troubadours (who are credited with providing a blueprint for our modern ideas about love and romance). This book is not, however, a mere cataloging of countercultural movements. It contains quite a bit of useful analysis, such as the internal contradictions that exist within many countercultures --for example, the authoritarian impulses that often arise within movements that are supposedly  against authority; the rather puritanical tendencies of transcendentalists Thoreau and Emerson; the ever-present danger of \\"selling out\\" or having the movement absorbed by mainstream society.<br /><br />R.U. Sirius has been at the center of the counterculture himself for the last few decades, especially the cyberpunk/futurist wing of it. Here he contrasts the Promethean vs. anti-Promethean strains that exist within countercultures. This debate, over whether technology is primarily a liberating or enslaving influence, is an example of how complex and theoretical this topic can get. I think that the authors of this work do a very good job at getting beyond the dogmas that often weigh down alternative thinkers and point the way towards a truly freer way to look at life.	2005-09-12
US	52465175	R2AU275BGWMNDI	0679756450	310711579	Portnoy's Complaint	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Humorous confessions of a tormented soul	This is a modern classic that I only recently discovered. It's a very funny, insightful and original look at a man struggling with his identity. Although the (anti?) hero, Alexander Portnoy, is Jewish, and extremely conscious and self-conscious about this, the novel is expansive enough in scope to reach issues of universal importance. Philip Roth has written some other very good books (the only other that I've read, and with which I was equally impressed, is American Pastoral) and he seems to have a knack for expressing the psychology of a particular type of American Jewish male. What is fascinating about the Portnoy character is that Roth makes no effort to make him especially likable or sympathetic. I can imagine that women in particular will not have much patience with Portnoy's sexual compulsion. Yet this makes him an unusually well-rounded character whose flaws are openly exposed for all the world to see. The novel takes the form of a confession on the part of Portnoy to a silent (till the very last sentence) psychoanalyst. The narrative takes place while he is in his thirties, but he jumps around in time from his early childhood to recent events. It is surprising how engrossing this is, considering the absence of a linear plot or the usual coherence of time passing. Even books that use the technique of flashbacks usually follow a sequential order of events; Portnoy's Complaint is a seemingly arbitrary stream of consciousness, yet it remains compelling (and frequently hilarious) throughout.<br /><br />  Portnoy's central conflict is his inability to reconcile his desire for freedom, especially sexual freedom, on the one hand, and his strong moral upbringing at the hands of very religious and overprotective parents on the other. He laments that he is the butt of every joke about a boy oppressed by Jewish parents. Portnoy's family is as ambiguous as he is; they love and care about him at the same time as they smother him and try their best to keep him in a state of perpetual guilt. Portnoy has also been raised to distrust goys (non-Jews). He has extremely complex and ambivalent feelings about this, as he simultaneously resents and yearns for the acceptance of the goy world. This is most notably expressed in his relationships with \\"shiksas\\" (non-Jewish women), who, he confesses, he has a desire to win over as a way to feel equal to goys. Yet he has just as much trouble committing to relationships with Jewish women.<br /><br />  Portnoy is, in may ways, an obnoxious narrator. He is extremely narcissistic, dramatizing minute details of his life into matters of supreme importance. Yet this is also one of the book's strengths, as it gives the reader full access to Portnoy's personality and inner self. The reader can easily see through Portnoy's attempts to glamorize and exaggerate, and at the same time come away with a grudging admiration for his attempt to be honest about himself.  I listened to the audiobook version, in which Ron Silver does a superb job of capturing Portnoy's complex personality. Well worth reading for anyone fascinated with human psychology.ate of perpetual guilt. Portnoy has also been raised to distrust goys (non-Jews). He has extremely complex and ambivalent feelings about this, as he simultaneously resents and yearns for the acceptance of the goy world. This is most notably expressed in his relationships with \\"shiksas\\" (non-Jewish women), who, he confesses, he has a desire to win over as a way to feel equal to goys. Yet he has just as much trouble committing to relationships with Jewish women. <br /> <br />   Portnoy is, in may ways, an obnoxious narrator. He is extremely narcissistic, dramatizing minute details of his life into matters of supreme importance. Yet this is also one of the book's strengths, as it gives the reader full access to Portnoy's personality and inner self. The reader can easily see through Portnoy's attempts to glamorize and exaggerate, and at the same time come away with a grudging admiration for his attempt to be honest about himself.  I listened to the audiobook version, in which Ron Silver does a superb job of capturing Portnoy's complex personality. Well worth reading for anyone fascinated with human psychology. <br />    <br />	2005-06-23
US	52465175	RPHL52WQ7LA6C	1402537808	987829512	The Quality of Life Report	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Culture shock	The Quality of Life Report is a witty and sometimes hilarious look at the culture shock experienced by a New Yorker who moves to the Midwest. Lucinda Trout is an assistant producer for a New York magazine-style television program. Her moody and caustic boss Fay comes across as a caricature at times, but is nonetheless a very funny parody of an urban elitist hipster (this, despite the fact that she can't spell). Lucinda is dissatisfied with her life for several reasons. She is a single woman in a city with a dearth of available men. She can only afford a tiny apartment in Manhattan. Finally, she is tired of the shallowness of her career and lifestyle. These facts conspire to hatch a new plan in Lucinda's mind --move to a town thousands of miles away and report back to New Yorkers in a \\"Quality of Life\\" report. So she relocates to Prairie City (a fictional place in an unspecified Midwestern state) and begins with a series on meth addiction. From there, she meets an odd assortment of characters, including Mason, who becomes a romantic interest, and sort of settles down while coping with a series of increasingly catastrophic misadventures.<br /><br />I really enjoyed Meghan Daum's writing style and subject matter. I must also give credit to Johana Parker, the narrator of the audiobook, who does a superb job in capturing the personalities of  the various characters. I laughed more listening to this book than I have in a long time. I liked the way she satirizes both big city pretensions and small town provincialism. She also makes some keen observations about the impact a different landscape has on peoples' lives. The vast open spaces of Prairie City present a dramatic contrast to the claustrophobic atmosphere of Manhattan.<br /><br />I do have a few criticisms of Daum's typecasting and the way the story unfolds. For one thing, Prairie City in some ways seems more like a hip college town than a middle American small city. Daum focuses on a very specific subculture within this Midwestern city, one that is populated by liberal activists, folk singers and gays, while the wider, more traditional and conservative element is downplayed. This has the effect of diluting  the culture shock --many of these Prairie City denizens seem more like people who, like Lucinda, moved there from a big city than homespun rural people. Lucinda's boyfriend Mason is a notable exception to this, and he is a complex and believable character. Then there are the local people Lucinda encounters grocery shopping, who Daum caricatures as mostly disfigured cretins.While some of these descriptions are very funny, albeit in a non-PC way, I also think they tend to undercut the book's main slant, which is biased in favor of Prairie City as opposed to New York. The audiobook contains a very interesting interview with the author at the end, in which Daum discusses the partly autobiographical nature of the novel. She herself had relocated to Nebraska while writing the book. I think the interview, as well as the novel itself, reveals Daum's ambivalence about rural vs. city life. On the one hand, she is drawn to the sense of community, roots and commitment that the Midwestern small-town life represents. On the other hand, she admits to having the writer's sense of being an outsider. So for people like Daum, and her fictional counterpart Lucinda, life in a place like Prairie City can never be what it is for the bona fide locals. I found the book compelling enough that I inquired about her other writing, which includes a book of essays called My Misspent Youth. She also has a personal website in which she reveals, quite significantly considering the topic of The Quality of Life Report, that she has recently relocated to Los Angeles.<br /><br />The Quality of Life Report is an intelligent, entertaining look at some of the issues that modern, multicultural America has to deal with. I look forward to reading more of Ms. Daum's work.city, one that is populated by liberal activists, folk singers and gays, while the wider, more traditional and conservative element is downplayed. This has the effect of diluting  the culture shock --many of these Prairie City denizens seem more like people who, like Lucinda, moved there from a big city than homespun rural people. Lucinda's boyfriend Mason is a notable exception to this, and he is a complex and believable character. Then there are the local people Lucinda encounters grocery shopping, who Daum caricatures as mostly disfigured cretins.While some of these descriptions are very funny, albeit in a non-PC way, I also think they tend to undercut the book's main slant, which is biased in favor of Prairie City as opposed to New York. The audiobook contains a very interesting interview with the author at the end, in which Daum discusses the partly autobiographical nature of the novel. She herself had relocated to Nebraska while writing the book. I think the interview, as well as the novel itself, reveals Daum's ambivalence about rural vs. city life. On the one hand, she is drawn to the sense of community, roots and commitment that the Midwestern small-town life represents. On the other hand, she admits to having the writer's sense of being an outsider. So for people like Daum, and her fictional counterpart Lucinda, life in a place like Prairie City can never be what it is for the bona fide locals. I found the book compelling enough that I inquired about her other writing, which includes a book of essays called My Misspent Youth. She also has a personal website in which she reveals, quite significantly considering the topic of The Quality of Life Report, that she has recently relocated to Los Angeles.    The Quality of Life Report is an intelligent, entertaining look at some of the issues that modern, multicultural America has to deal with. I look forward to reading more of Ms. Daum's work.	2005-05-09
US	52465175	R37GVPNG52YQZW	0060504129	311529941	Die in Plain Sight: A Novel of Suspense (Lowell, Elizabeth)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Suspense and romance in the art world	Die in Plain Sight is a mystery/suspense novel with quite a bit of romance thrown in. The focus on California high society and the conflict within a rich family reminded me of the TV series Dallas and other evening soaps. There is also a fairly in-depth look at the contemporary art scene. Elizabeth Lowell is either an artist herself or did quite a bit of research for the novel. Unfortunately, these elements don't always gel and the book, while compelling in places, drags at times. The story is quite complex, spanning several generations and many characters. It took me a while to get all of the names and families straight; listening to the book on tape probably made this more difficult, as with a printed book you can more easily backtrack and look up tidbits you may have missed. The book is quite ambitious in this regard, and is set up to be a sort of epic. It does not really have the content to fulfill this ambition, however. One thing that I found a little distracting was that the point of view frequently changes from one character to another. Giving the reader access to the thoughts and feelings of characters who turn out to be relatively minor can be frustrating.<br /><br />  Lacey Quinn is an artist and the owner of an antique shop. Her socialite parents do not understand her or approve of her career choice. The one family member who she could relate to was her deceased grandfather, who was also an artist; he may also have been a forger. Lacey meets the mandatory tall, dark and handsome hero in the person of Ian Lapstrake (do people outside romance novels and soap operas have names like Lacey Quinn and Ian Lapstrake?). Ian works for a security company that specializes in evaluating and protecting works of art. Together they uncover an ever-murkier past that suggests that Lacey's grandfather may have been a murderer as well as a forger. To make matters worse, someone is stalking Lacey and warning her to stop asking questions.<br /><br />  I enjoyed parts of the book, but found some of it a little repetitive. There is also a fairly strong leaning towards the romantic/sexual aspect of the story. The novel is probably geared more to female readers, which may explain some of my impatience with it. But I don't really like the idea of books (or movies) that are aimed mainly at one gender. The final few chapters seemed hurried after all of the build-up. One minute we are in the midst of a bewildering maze of danger, mystery and confusion, the next everything is wrapped up in a neat package. I admired the attention to detail Lowell gives to the art scene in California. She also seems to have something of a bird's eye view of the mannerisms of the upper class, or at least one subculture within in. A mostly good read, but the story could have used some tightening up and some of the characters could have been more fully developed.f the book, but found some of it a little repetitive. There is also a fairly strong leaning towards the romantic/sexual aspect of the story. The novel is probably geared more to female readers, which may explain some of my impatience with it. But I don't really like the idea of books (or movies) that are aimed mainly at one gender. The final few chapters seemed hurried after all of the build-up. One minute we are in the midst of a bewildering maze of danger, mystery and confusion, the next everything is wrapped up in a neat package. I admired the attention to detail Lowell gives to the art scene in California. She also seems to have something of a bird's eye view of the mannerisms of the upper class, or at least one subculture within in. A mostly good read, but the story could have used some tightening up and some of the characters could have been more fully developed.	2005-04-18
US	52465175	R2PT3CHO2MH0NG	B0007DTGTQ	605770214	The romance of Tristan and Iseult (Doubleday Anchor Books A2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic tale of tragic love	The Romance of Tristan and Iseult is one of the oldest romantic tales of Western literature. It first appeared in the 12th Century, sung by wandering poets in the courts of Europe. On the back cover of this book, which was retold by the French writer Joseph Bedier in 1900, it says: \\"Much of our modern literature, as well as many of our modern attitudes toward love, owes its inspiration to this challenging story.\\" This suggests what an important influence Tristan and Iseult has been.<br /><br />Apart from its importance as a literary and cultural influence, it is also a compelling tale of tragic romance. The tragic element is an essential aspect of the story. Tristan and Iseult are lovers who are brought together by fate, against the wishes of everyone else around them. Tristan is a brave knight who loyally serves King Mark of Cornwall. Iseult is the beautiful niece of the Morholt, an Irish giant who forces the people of Cornwall to pay tribute. When Tristan defeats the Morholt in combat, he wins Iseult, not for himself but for King Mark. By accident, Tristan swallows a love potion meant for Mark, and the two are forever bound. The rest of their lives are filled with anguish, as they cannot live together or apart.<br /><br />Bedier relates in the introduction that this book is compiled from various poems and stories. So this version of The Romance of Tristan and Iseult is actually an original work,  based on a classic tale that was told many different ways. In places, I was aware of a certain choppiness to the story, which is probably due to the fact that it was put together rather than written as a single, seamless novel. Overall it is a ruthless and unsentimental look at a passionate and all-consuming but doomed love affair. It suggests some rather deep questions about the nature of love and fate. It also forces the reader to ponder whether a love like that which Tristan and Iseult shared could be worth all of the pain. What the tale conveys to me is the message that such love is indeed worth the price.s indeed worth the price.	2005-02-05
US	52465175	RWAPX0QVSJP93	0060548452	744319406	Among the Bohemians: Experiments in Living 1900-1939	Books	5	39	39	N	N	The Bohemian spirit	Among the Bohemians is a fascinating and thorough excursion through the colorful streets, homes and cafes of bohemian England during the early 20th Century. Virginia Nicholson, who is related to both the painter Vanessa Bell (often mentioned in this book) and the writer Virginia Woolf, handles the subject in a rather scholarly manner, covering a range of topics chapter by chapter. This organized approach may seem out of tune with the book's subject, but it works well here, allowing the reader to meet the same cast of characters from different vantage points. Like a naturalist studying the behavior of animals in the wild, Nicholson examines almost every conceivable aspect of bohemian life. Using memoirs from that era, we learn all about the homes, love lives, dress, eating habits, parties and child-rearing practices of these flamboyant characters.<br /><br /> Some writers (e.g. Herbert Gold) have successfully examined Bohemia from the inside, using a poetic and meandering voice, but Nicholson prefers the more sociological/ anthropological method. The fact that she is writing about a past era also makes a certain distance inevitable. Despite this methodical approach, Nicholson is not detached from her subject in a coldly objective way. She is clearly sympathetic and admiring of the people she describes. Indeed, she credits bohemians with creating much of the freedom we take for granted today. As she states in the introduction, Nicholson does not confine her study to famous people, though the well known (e.g. Dylan Thomas, Carrington, Robert Graves), are certainly not neglected.  As an American, I had always associated Bohemia with places like Paris (which, Nicholson confirms, has always been the Bohemian capital), Greenwich Village and North Beach, but never England. This book filled in some rather large gaps in my knowledge, illustrating the very significant role played by bohemian Brits.<br /><br />Nicholson has a genuine appreciation for the bohemian spirit, and acknowledges the sacrifices made by many obscure artists, poets and others existing (often marginally) at society's fringes. For some, the idealistic decision to forsake conventional society for a life dedicated to art, romance, poetry or perhaps a vaguer idea such as beauty or authenticity was never rewarded with any kind of material success. Was there any compensation for those living such marginal lives? Nicholson makes the case that for many, a life dedicated to art, romance and freedom is its own reward. For those who embody the bohemian spirit, material comforts and security are not worth the price of suppressing one's creativity and individuality. Bohemia during this era was a radical negation of the conservative Victorian values that were dominant. Similar to the Beatniks of the 1950s and the hippies of the 60s, but to an even greater extent, these early rebels in many ways charted the course for what was to become the modern world. Nicholson presents them as revolutionaries who helped to create a freer and more creative world for everyone. Many of these people lived in abject poverty, and at those days there were few resources to help those who became destitute. There were virtually no government social programs, and relatives were seldom in a position (and often unwilling) to help those who fell between the cracks. The decision to \\"drop out\\" of mainstream society had potentially far more dire consequences than for, say, the mostly middle class hippies of the 60s who operated with a safety net of affluent parents, free or very inexpensive education and a growing economy (arguably, we may now be moving back towards a harsher economic climate similar to the Victorian times, at least for those outside the mainstream).<br /><br />Among the Bohemians is a very readable, informative and enjoyable look at bohemians, who are always among the most interesting and creative members of any society.acrifices made by many obscure artists, poets and others existing (often marginally) at society's fringes. For some, the idealistic decision to forsake conventional society for a life dedicated to art, romance, poetry or perhaps a vaguer idea such as beauty or authenticity was never rewarded with any kind of material success. Was there any compensation for those living such marginal lives? Nicholson makes the case that for many, a life dedicated to art, romance and freedom is its own reward. For those who embody the bohemian spirit, material comforts and security are not worth the price of suppressing one's creativity and individuality. Bohemia during this era was a radical negation of the conservative Victorian values that were dominant. Similar to the Beatniks of the 1950s and the hippies of the 60s, but to an even greater extent, these early rebels in many ways charted the course for what was to become the modern world. Nicholson presents them as revolutionaries who helped to create a freer and more creative world for everyone. Many of these people lived in abject poverty, and at those days there were few resources to help those who became destitute. There were virtually no government social programs, and relatives were seldom in a position (and often unwilling) to help those who fell between the cracks. The decision to \\"drop out\\" of mainstream society had potentially far more dire consequences than for, say, the mostly middle class hippies of the 60s who operated with a safety net of affluent parents, free or very inexpensive education and a growing economy (arguably, we may now be moving back towards a harsher economic climate similar to the Victorian times, at least for those outside the mainstream).    Among the Bohemians is a very readable, informative and enjoyable look at bohemians, who are always among the most interesting and creative members of any society.	2005-01-19
US	52465175	R2CSEF5503M1JR	097427559X	936435296	Dream Yoga: Writings on Dreams and Astral Travel	Books	3	58	63	N	Y	Gnostic teacher discusses dream techniques	I was not familiar with Samael Aun Weor before reading this book. He is described on the cover as a \\"Gnostic Master\\" and the founder of the International Gnostic Movement. He is the author of a very large number of books on esoteric subjects. Dream Yoga seems to be mainly aimed at people who are familiar with his teachings and terminology. For someone new to his rather idiosyncratic point of view, such as myself, the book is quite difficult and sometimes confusing. The book is quite short, 108 pages, and 30 of these pages are a dictionary of dream symbols.<br /><br />Weor is definitely one of those occult teachers with his own system. He draws on many different traditions --mainly Eastern religions such as Tibetan and Tantric, but also Kabbala, Christian and Mayan. I found this radical eclecticism a little disconcerting, especially considering the dogmatic tone of the book. There is no attempt to explain how these traditions are connected and many of the terms, such as obscure (to most readers) god and goddess names, are never defined. He never, for example, explains how these many traditions are united under the banner of Gnosticism, which was originally a Christian sect (albeit one deemed heretical). I am not saying that all of these ideas cannot be synthesized, only that the reader deserves a little more explanation than is provided here. When I say Weor is dogmatic, I mean that he has a rigid idea of what is right and wrong. Although he claims that  \\"Gnosticism is not against any religion, school, order or sect,\\" he frequently refers to ideas that contradict his own as \\"pseudo-esotericism\\" and \\"pseudo-occultism.\\" In one place he refers to those who differ on some rather obscure point as \\"imbecile ignoramuses.\\" He also makes a statement that will surely offend gay people, who he sees as symptomatic of \\"this perverse, corrupted and doomed Aryan civilization.\\" I am quoting some of this to give potential readers an idea of what they are in for if they choose to read this book.<br /><br />Despite all of these criticisms, I don't doubt that Weor possesses some genuine knowledge and that many of the techniques given in this book can be quite useful. He points out, for example, that to master being awake in dreams, you must work on being conscious while awake. This idea is not unique to this author, but it is a valuable piece of advice. I would recommend this book mainly to readers who are already familiar with Weor's system or who are interested in following the Gnostic path (which is rather ascetic and mystical, at least as Weor interprets it). It also makes a good addition to a collection of books on dreaming. If you are a beginner to dream studies, however, you would probably do better with a more basic and less jargon-filled book.ead this book. <br /> <br />Despite all of these criticisms, I don't doubt that Weor possesses some genuine knowledge and that many of the techniques given in this book can be quite useful. He points out, for example, that to master being awake in dreams, you must work on being conscious while awake. This idea is not unique to this author, but it is a valuable piece of advice. I would recommend this book mainly to readers who are already familiar with Weor's system or who are interested in following the Gnostic path (which is rather ascetic and mystical, at least as Weor interprets it). It also makes a good addition to a collection of books on dreaming. If you are a beginner to dream studies, however, you would probably do better with a more basic and less jargon-filled book.	2004-11-26
US	52465175	R3ANM9X53QFDFV	096285235X	742892781	Old Eagle Nester: The Lost Legends of the Catskills	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recaptures obscure American folk tales	This is a collection of stories set  in the Catskills region of upstate New York in the Nineteenth Century. The tales evoke the lifestyle and atmosphere of this very particular place and time in a way that makes the book special. I don't live too far from this region, and once lived even closer, so I can recognize some of the natural features of the landscape, but it is still hard to imagine what life was like there so long ago, when bobcats roamed the mountains and a railroad (long since discontinued) carried passengers from town to town. The title comes from a group of mixed-race people (whose ancestors were local Indians, Dutch settlers and slaves), called Eagle-Nesters who settled in the region long ago.<br /><br />Some of these stories contain supernatural elements such as ghosts and changelings. There are recurring characters, such as the old Eagle-Nester of the title, who is something of a witch who makes baskets, tells fortunes and serves a mysterious tea that has an unusual effect on people. Most of the stories are very low-key and focus on the often difficult everyday lives of the people, who were basically pioneers living off the land. They are true regional folk tales, variations on ones the author, herself a native of this area, heard as a child. The stories are atmospheric, quaint and well told. They will not appeal to people looking for suspense, action or melodrama. On the other hand, if you usually seek those things, this book might be a good way to look at life from a different perspective and appreciate a slower paced way of life that has all but disappeared from modern society.	2004-11-22
US	52465175	R3L9NSME45BCG0	0812971639	619107521	The Reluctant Metrosexual: Dispatches from an Almost Hip Life	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The writer's life in the big city	The Reluctant Metrosexual is a mostly enjoyable collection of autobiographical essays by Peter Hyman, a single (apparently unhappily so) thirty-something writer who identifies vaguely with the \\"metrosexual\\" label. Metrosexual is the latest cutsey expression, along the lines of yuppie and bobo, useful in marketing books like this one. It refers to a heterosexual man, usually educated and urban, with somewhat feminine preferences in cultural matters (at least from a more traditional macho perspective). Hyman only identifies with the term in a lukewarm way and pretty much confesses that he is using it as a marketing gimmick more than anything else, although he does have the requisite interest in dressing well, fine dining and interior decorating to fit the basic description. Most of the essays are not especially pertinent to \\"metrosexuality\\" but are more like a Sex in the City from the male perspective. In several chapters, Hyman relates misadventures concerning his dating life, including a series of dates with women who vomited on their first date with him and an awkward foray into the world of swingers. Hyman's style is glib and self-deprecating, which I found tiresome after a while. He begins the book with the rather obvious ploy of fending off would-be critics by confessing \\"This book is a pompous exercise in self-aggrandizement that tries too hard to be funny and displays the author's undernourished but delusional sense of his own importance.\\" Of course, autobiography is almost by definition an exercise in narcissism. If Hyman didn't feel the compulsive need to continually call attention to his defects the reader wouldn't be so aware of them. Whether it's his perceived failure with women or his employment status (or lack thereof), Hyman is constantly pre-empting attacks on his dignity by putting himself down.<br /><br />The Reluctant Metrosexual contains more than a few amusing and insightful passages. Some of Hyman's recollections shed light on the contemporary internet dating scene (home to many \\"serial daters\\" as Hyman tells it, to use yet another catch phrase of the new millennium). His account of being a lowly (at least as he describes it) fact checker for a magazine if nothing else exposes the social insecurity concerning hierarchy at such status conscious places of employment. Behind his humor, Hyman has a fairly cynical and dour worldview. He constructs a thick wall of blase worldliness around all of his perceptions, but it seems more like a pose than his true nature, which he reveals to be quite sensitive. Unlike someone like Candace Bushnell (author of Sex In The City), Hyman doesn't seem quite at home in the world of urban sophistication but still feels the need to act the part.<br /><br />I might have liked the book better as a more unified work rather than a group of only loosely linked stories. Some of the chapters, isolated as they are, are a little weak in material. Hyman's life is not especially exciting or unusual. This is not a criticism, as it describes the vast majority of people, but to devote a whole essay to shopping for a shirt in Italy or describing a few items burglarized from your apartment can tax the reader's patience. There is one theme that runs throughout the book, and that is the effect that a recently ended love affair has had on him. He devotes one chapter describing this in poignant detail and often refers to it in other chapters. Whether you empathize with Hyman's nostalgic romanticism or impatiently wish he would just move on will depend on your own nature (I fluctuated in this regard). Peter Hyman is an intelligent writer and he has some funny and valuable insights, and the book has a breezy, engaging style. I'd recommend it to anyone fascinated with contemporary city life.internet dating scene (home to many \\"serial daters\\" as Hyman tells it, to use yet another catch phrase of the new millennium). His account of being a lowly (at least as he describes it) fact checker for a magazine if nothing else exposes the social insecurity concerning hierarchy at such status conscious places of employment. Behind his humor, Hyman has a fairly cynical and dour worldview. He constructs a thick wall of blase worldliness around all of his perceptions, but it seems more like a pose than his true nature, which he reveals to be quite sensitive. Unlike someone like Candace Bushnell (author of Sex In The City), Hyman doesn't seem quite at home in the world of urban sophistication but still feels the need to act the part. <br /> <br />I might have liked the book better as a more unified work rather than a group of only loosely linked stories. Some of the chapters, isolated as they are, are a little weak in material. Hyman's life is not especially exciting or unusual. This is not a criticism, as it describes the vast majority of people, but to devote a whole essay to shopping for a shirt in Italy or describing a few items burglarized from your apartment can tax the reader's patience. There is one theme that runs throughout the book, and that is the effect that a recently ended love affair has had on him. He devotes one chapter describing this in poignant detail and often refers to it in other chapters. Whether you empathize with Hyman's nostalgic romanticism or impatiently wish he would just move on will depend on your own nature (I fluctuated in this regard). Peter Hyman is an intelligent writer and he has some funny and valuable insights, and the book has a breezy, engaging style. I'd recommend it to anyone fascinated with contemporary city life.	2004-11-11
US	52465175	R1H8LZ7OHSEUU	0142000604	559108275	The Muse Asylum	Books	4	1	2	N	N	When literature leads to madness	The Muse Asylum is one of the most compelling books I've read in the last few years. In this debut novel, David Czuchlewski demonstrates an unusual ability to tell an unconventional story with interesting, original characters in a way that makes it hard to put the book down. The only thing that keeps me from giving it five stars is that in parts, especially towards the end, the story seems a little contrived and cleverness seems to preside over plausibility. Also, Czuchlewski's writing, while brilliant in many ways, is sometimes a little uneven and he occasionally lapses into trite phrases. Any flaws, however, are more than made up for by the narrative flow and the intelligence and originality of the tale.<br /><br />Andrew, Jake and Lara are three recent college graduates who are fascinated with the works of a reclusive author named Horace Jacob Little. In Andrew's case, this interest has become a paranoid obsession, as he has come to believe that Little is dedicated to destroying his life. Andrew ends up in a mental institution called the Muse Asylum, a place that caters to disturbed creative people. Both Andrew and Jake are in love with Lara, who is about to be married to someone else entirely. The novel can be seen as an example of the postmodern literary genre, where the boundary between fiction and reality is always threatening to collapse. While the relatively short The Muse Asylum doesn't have the scope or depth of a novel like A.S. Byatt's Possession (which deals with somewhat similar themes on a larger scale), it does have a romantic intensity that makes it far more than a mere exercise in experimental fiction. Czuchlewski is particularly skilled at evoking the all-consuming nature of romantic love, especially first loves. The way Andrew falls in love with Lara makes it more plausible when he then falls, not in love, but into a delusional state over an author and his works. The fact that Horace Jacob Little is an anonymous author is also a major factor in the novel. We are not sure until the very end who Little really is and if there is any basis for Andrew's obsession.<br /><br />The Muse Asylum is a brilliant first novel. It's the kind of book you can easily read in one long sitting, and be sorry when it's finished. It seems likely that David Czuchlewski is destined to be an author of significance.n the novel. We are not sure until the very end who Little really is and if there is any basis for Andrew's obsession. <br /> <br />The Muse Asylum is a brilliant first novel. It's the kind of book you can easily read in one long sitting, and be sorry when it's finished. It seems likely that David Czuchlewski is destined to be an author of significance.	2004-10-06
US	52465175	R2ZKHDKINLO5RB	1559700173	441971371	Travels in San Francisco	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A meandering guide to bohemian San Francisco	Despite the title, this is not really a travel book. It is more a series of slice-of-life anecdotes and reflections from the perspective of a writer immersed in the sidewalk and cafe life of San Francisco. Herbert Gold has a unique, rambling style and I appreciated the flavor he evokes of this city that is his home and which he obviously loves. The book is somewhat dated (1990), at least by the standards of internet culture, but this hardly matters in a book that is largely nostalgic in tone anyway. Gold is one of those people who seems solidly rooted somewhere in between the beatnik and hippie epochs of countercultural America. Since San Francisco in many ways can be considered the capitol of the counterculture, it is his natural home turf. Gold is also the author of Bohemia (the only other book of his I've read), an equally enjoyable work that takes a wider view of the bohemian subculture that has been apparently fading for decades but (thankfully) never quite completely disappears.<br /><br />Travels in San Francisco is basically a series of vignettes --reflections on neighborhoods like North Beach and Richmond, a few short stories that may or may not be fact-based, colorful descriptions of  some of the city's many eccentric denizens, tales of some famous cafes, bars and restaurants...This book is certainly not an ordinary tourist guide, and will probably be best appreciated by those who either have some familiarity with San Francisco, or are at least in tune with its unconventional history and atmosphere.	2004-10-04
US	52465175	RDU5VSZGRWAVO	097143963X	24510085	God's Gladiators	Books	4	39	43	N	Y	A wild ride by a modern trickster guru	As other reviewers have noted, this is not an easy book to review. In some ways, God's Gladiators has elements in common with books like Autobiography of a Yogi and the works of Carlos Castaneda (though Wilde is definitely on a different spiritual path from either of these). The problem is, if you haven't personally experienced the fantastic things written about in these books, how do you evaluate their authenticity? If you are a complete skeptic or someone who believes anything on faith, this is not a problem. If however, like me, you are open to almost anything but also skeptical, it can be a tricky business.<br /><br />In this book, Wilde talks about meeting metaphysical entities such as the mythic Lady of the Lake, malevolent transdimensionals and even the Devil himself (though he confesses that this part of the tale is allegorical). I have read several of Stuart Wilde's books and, although this one is the furthest \\"out there,\\" all of his work reveals him to be something of a trickster guru type. This, despite the fact that he warns his readers away from gurus and other authority figures. It isn't just what he says, but the way he says it --he is full of wisecracks and a tongue-in-cheek attitude. This does not mean, however, that I don't believe a lot of what he says, only that I don't necessarily take it at face value. For one thing, many of his experiences have the quality of visions or mystical experiences, which often have a subjective quality. That is, what I \\"see\\" may be valid for me but not for everyone. The book also contains what I see as certain contradictions. For example, Wilde repeatedly states that anyone who tries to sell you on immortality is conning you. Yet, at the very end he describes, or at least suggests, a way to attain immortality. He tends to paint very broad strokes in dismissing others' beliefs. He mentions that Hitler was interested in Tibetan mysticism, and based on this he rejects everything Tibetan. He likewise condemns Hinduism and Buddhism, the latter for denying the self. Yet Wilde himself tells us we have to get rid of the self we have come to know. This is a common theme of all spiritual traditions, including Buddhism.<br /><br />I suspect there is a basic truth to Wilde's premise that we are controlled by the Sphere --similar to the Matrix (see David Icke's books for more on this, as well as the Matrix movies of course). Dark entities feed off our fears and negativity and also control all of \\"our\\" governments, religions, economies and mass media. The latter will not be news to anyone who has studied conspiracy theories, but Wilde does a good job in exposing this widespread deception. If there is a basic theme to this, as well as Wilde's other books, it is attaining freedom from control.<br /><br />This is a fascinating book, and I'd recommend it to anyone who is not afraid to go beyond the standard dogmas of most religions as well as self help and new age philosophies. My sense is that it contains a lot of wisdom, some material that is true for some but not others and some hot air as well. It's worth reading it to make up your own mind.and Buddhism, the latter for denying the self. Yet Wilde himself tells us we have to get rid of the self we have come to know. This is a common theme of all spiritual traditions, including Buddhism.  <br /> <br />I suspect there is a basic truth to Wilde's premise that we are controlled by the Sphere --similar to the Matrix (see David Icke's books for more on this, as well as the Matrix movies of course). Dark entities feed off our fears and negativity and also control all of \\"our\\" governments, religions, economies and mass media. The latter will not be news to anyone who has studied conspiracy theories, but Wilde does a good job in exposing this widespread deception. If there is a basic theme to this, as well as Wilde's other books, it is attaining freedom from control. <br /> <br />This is a fascinating book, and I'd recommend it to anyone who is not afraid to go beyond the standard dogmas of most religions as well as self help and new age philosophies. My sense is that it contains a lot of wisdom, some material that is true for some but not others and some hot air as well. It's worth reading it to make up your own mind.	2004-09-16
US	52465175	RMKMGRRBK1FYV	0618446877	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Capetown	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A barebones trek through Africa	It is hard to imagine a more engaging and perceptive book about traveling through Africa than Dark Star Safari. Paul Theroux is a renowned and prolific travel writer and this book shows he hasn't lost his touch. In this journey, he covers the distance from Cairo, Egypt to Cape Town, South Africa. He travels by bus, train, car and boat through cities, villages, wilderness and desert. Many of his travels are of the roughest kind, such as hazardous rides in broken down jitneys and excursions into high crime areas. Even when not dangerous, travel through Africa is never convenient. Delays, breakdowns and bureaucratic red tape are the norm.<br /><br />Theroux starts the book with the sentence, \\"All news out of Africa is bad,\\" and this serves as a warning that this is not going to be a sugarcoated tourist jaunt. In fact, the book is downright depressing in many ways. Theroux had spent time in Africa thirty years ago and he finds that things have mostly changed for the worse. Poverty, violence, political corruption and disease are rampant throughout the continent. What is especially frustrating about the situation is that relief organizations have been focusing their efforts on Africa for decades with no measurable success. As Theroux tells it, these attempts at charity may in fact be one cause for the decline. In many cases, money and supplies are seized by corrupt governments. They also have instilled in many Africans a lack of motivation, as they have come to rely on foreigners to solve their problems. Theroux also describes the relief workers he meets as arrogant, aloof and not very helpful.<br /><br />Despite the grim realities of Africa, Theroux's journey is not all depressing. He meets many old acquaintances and finds that no matter how bad things appear, there is still hope for the future. Theroux also finds that in many places, people manage to get by despite living under what might be called primitive conditions. The implication is that it may not be such a good idea to impose alien notions of civilization on people who are doing fine on their own. Africa, of course, has been subjected to centuries of colonialism by the Portuguese, Dutch, English and other Europeans. Making the transition to independence was not easy for these nations and many are still struggling to find their identity in the modern world.<br /><br />For people not familiar with the continent, Africa often sounds like one large and distant place. Theroux's journey reveals the many varieties of people, climate and culture that exist in African countries. Vivid descriptions of Egypt, Tanzania, Kenya, Mozambique, Zimbabwe and South Africa are given. Theroux's style is enjoyable to read as well as educational. On his trip, he meets people from all walks of life, from the poorest to the most powerful and recounts their (as well as his own) observations and opinions about their homelands. All in all, a compelling account of a fascinating trip.alien notions of civilization on people who are doing fine on their own. Africa, of course, has been subjected to centuries of colonialism by the Portuguese, Dutch, English and other Europeans. Making the transition to independence was not easy for these nations and many are still struggling to find their identity in the modern world.    For people not familiar with the continent, Africa often sounds like one large and distant place. Theroux's journey reveals the many varieties of people, climate and culture that exist in African countries. Vivid descriptions of Egypt, Tanzania, Kenya, Mozambique, Zimbabwe and South Africa are given. Theroux's style is enjoyable to read as well as educational. On his trip, he meets people from all walks of life, from the poorest to the most powerful and recounts their (as well as his own) observations and opinions about their homelands. All in all, a compelling account of a fascinating trip.	2004-09-16
US	52465175	R3BESJOJGXAAFQ	0787674702	857219022	Videohound's Golden Movie Retriever 2005	Books	4	34	34	N	Y	Still the best, despite some quibbles	Videohound's Golden Movie Retriever has been around for a while now, and it has emerged as the most complete resource for looking up any movie available on VHS or DVD. It is practically indispensable for movie lovers. These days you can, of course, look up movies online, but there is no substitute to having a huge book on your desk that you can leaf through at any time.<br /><br />Browsing through the 2005 edition, I looked up some notable films from the last few years (I missed buying the last few editions; they simply take up too much space to get one every year!) and found myself a little annoyed at some of the reviews. I don't know if this is a change from earlier editions, but I feel that the reviewers seem to be catering to a mass audience and overrating some popular but ordinary films while giving short shrift to some very good films that don't appeal to a wide audience. In the latter category I'd include the brilliant animated Waking Life (\\"might not appeal to many people except philosophy majors, computer geeks, or chemically altered college students\\"), Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas (\\"It's most definitely a one-of-a-kind trip, but not one that most people will be willing to make\\") and Luc Besson's The Professional (\\"a little too Lolita-ish for comfort\\"). These reviews to me display an almost patronizing tone, warning mall audiences away from potentially off-color material. This is, perhaps, one of the drawbacks of being too popular.<br /><br />Despite my disagreement with some of Videohound's reviewers, I still have to rate the book highly. It's a superb and unmatched reference book. You can look up movies by title, cast, director, writer or category. It's also fun to browse through the many sub-categories they've identified; just turning to a page at random, I find \\"Red Scare,\\" Reefer Madness,\\" \\"Renegade Body Parts,\\" \\"Repressed Men\\" and \\"Rescue Mission,\\" and that's just a small sampling of the \\"R's.\\" I recommend Videohound's to anyone who watches, writes, directs or reviews movies --just don't take their opinions as gospel.ites, directs or reviews movies --just don't take their opinions as gospel.	2004-09-08
US	52465175	R1VTJQBYBMAD08	1587541130	178816195	The Isles of the Blest	Books	4	17	17	N	N	The price of eternal life in the land of faery	Morgan Llewelyn is the author of several very good historical novels, mostly set in Ireland. The Isles of the Blest is one of her shorter and lesser known novels, but, along with Bard, it is probably my favorite. The story itself is not original; it is taken from a very old and well known Irish tale. This retelling of it, however, is the best I've read.<br /><br /> The story is about a young warrior named Connla who falls in love with Blathine, a faery woman who takes him to her home, The Isles of the Blest. In this faery world, no one ages, time does not pass and pain, suffering and death are unknown. Morgan Llewelyn explores a complex metaphysical dilemma in this book, so it is more than a simple fantasy or folk tale. Connla must choose between mortal life, with all its pain and challenges and this ideal eternal life on the Isles of the Blest. If he chooses the latter, he will lose all of his earthly memories. What makes him reluctant are not only his fond memories of people and places he loved, but the realization that something is lacking in a world of total perfection. Wars are fought, but no one really dies; games of chance are played, but no one can really lose. Connla finds that this takes some of the meaning out of life. On the other hand, he very much loves the beautiful Blathine. Llewelyn has taken a traditional tale and filled it out with more details and speculations than such tales usually contain, at least in the versions that have survived over the years. As much as I enjoyed this book, the ending was a little less conclusive than I would have liked. On the other hand, it may have been the author's intention to leave the reader with a sense of ambiguity about Connla's dilemma.<br /><br /> I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in fantasy, Celtic myths or faeries. In particular, this book contains some valuable insights and poses some fascinating questions (some of which, perhaps inevitably, remain unanswered) about the mysterious world of faery.d of faery.	2004-08-09
US	52465175	R1YVZUZDFVR7HZ	0970150601	152367486	The Dream of Vixen Tor	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Practicing Dreaming-Awake	This is an interesting and unusual introduction to a technique known as &quot;Dreaming-awake.&quot; Ken Eagle-Feather, a practitioner of Toltec spirituality, starts off with a tale (though he says it's based on reality) of three travellers who venture to Vixen Tor, a mystical spot somewhere in the British Isles. This tale is about a &quot;ranger&quot; --defined here as knights/wizards who were trained in the ways of Arthur's mythic Roundtable-- who seeks to &quot;restore the crown&quot; -- a mystical quest dedicated to &quot;restoring the relationship of the people to the spirit of all things good and whole, and to the spiriit that contained all worlds.&quot; During this quest, the ranger and his companions, described only as a coachmen and waif, encounter the Vixen, a frightening female spirit who presides over the area. During this encounter, in which they face both physical dangers and psychological and spiritual tests, they learn more about themselves and their own spiritual paths.<br /><br /> Ken Eagle-Feather follows up the tale with an introduction to Toltec spirituality and the technique known as Dreaming-Awake. It might seem odd to some to combine the British Isles mythology of King Arthur with the Toltec tradition (which the Carlos Castanada books are also rooted in), but today many are looking for common elements of different traditions. Dreaming-Awake is related to lucid dreaming --remaining awake and alert while you are in a dream-- but it also refers to your awareness while in the waking world. Ideally, we should cultivate a heightened sense of awareness while both sleeping and awake. The exercises he gives are useful, and based on staying in touch with the physical body at all times.<br /><br /> The Dream of Vixen Tor also contains photos and illustrations by Charles Duffie and several evocative poems by Harriet Louisa Coleman, who was only eleven when this was published. The Dream of Vixen Tor is described as the first in a series of books on the &quot;Restoring the Crown&quot; theme, but I don't know if any others have come out since this one. I would recommend this book to students of spirituality or meditation.the &quot;Restoring the Crown&quot; theme, but I don't know if any others have come out since this one. I would recommend this book to students of spirituality or meditation.	2004-08-05
US	52465175	R1P12ABHVVVS83	1401351905	986554251	Dangerous Company	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Inside a Hollywood community	I am not usually a fan of short stories, but Dangerous Company kept me intrigued all the way through. Of course, the tales in this book are connected, with later stories completing developments begun in earlier ones, so it might be considered a quasi-novel. I can imagine this book being made into one of those movies where various lives intersect.<br /><br /> Since all of the stories take place in Hollywood (well, technically one takes place in Europe, but it's still about Hollywood) and all of the characters are in the movie business, this is obviously not a book for anyone thoroughly turned off by Hollywood --unless they want their cynical view of that town reinforced. Peter Bart is the editor of Variety, the major movie trade publication, so he is almost overqualified to write a book about the movie business. From the book jacket, I gather that there have been speculations that many of the characters and scenarios are not so fictional after all. Frankly, this doesn't even interest me. I am as fascinated with movies as almost anyone, but I don't have much interest in the personal lives of the players. At least not in the gossip column sense; the way Bart introduces these eccentric and very flawed characters, I was fascinated.<br /><br /> If the author wasn't a Hollywood insider, he could be accused of doing a grossly exaggerated and unfair portrayal of stars, directors, screenwriters and agents. The people who populate Dangerous Company are materialistic, neurotic, insecure and power hungry. They are not, however, mere caricatures. They also show vulnerability and sometimes even compassion. The stories revolve around a newly developed neighborhood called Starlight Terrace, &quot;invented&quot; by a realtor who is introduced in the first chapter. It is fitting in stories about movie makers that the very place they live is a creation based on a whim.<br /><br /> The crises faced by the characters are in some ways universally human, but in other ways unique to Hollywood. An aging actress finds that her excessive cosmetic surgeries may jeopardize an upcoming role; the neighborhood association plans action against a hated new resident who makes movies all night long right in front of their homes; a couple who meet at a party discover they share an awkward connection...<br /><br /> This is a fairly short book, and it would be easy to dismiss it as light reading on a trivial subject. Yet the flow of the stories, the vividness and realism of the characters and the way these often absurd situations are made to seem perfectly believable make this an exceptionally enjoyable read. It even manages to shed some light on the human condition, which is one of the best things you can say about fiction.finds that her excessive cosmetic surgeries may jeopardize an upcoming role; the neighborhood association plans action against a hated new resident who makes movies all night long right in front of their homes; a couple who meet at a party discover they share an awkward connection...      This is a fairly short book, and it would be easy to dismiss it as light reading on a trivial subject. Yet the flow of the stories, the vividness and realism of the characters and the way these often absurd situations are made to seem perfectly believable make this an exceptionally enjoyable read. It even manages to shed some light on the human condition, which is one of the best things you can say about fiction.	2004-08-03
US	52465175	R1FSGZUM9WLEGZ	0878770283	327654231	Quest of the Golden Stairs: A Mystery of Kinghood in Faerie (A Newcastle occult book X-28)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A curious occult study	This book will be of interest mainly to students of the occult, especially 19th and early 20th Century occultism. Arthur Edward Waite is best known for his Pictorial Key to the Tarot; the Rider-Waite tarot deck that accompanies this book is still probably the most widely used deck in the world. Waite also wrote books on the Kabbala, alchemy and black magic. The Quest of the Golden Stairs is one of his more obscure works, and possibly his only work of fiction (though I'm not sure about this).<br /><br /> A.E. Waite is not an easy author to read. His prose is heavy, long-winded and full of flowery language. Whenever I read him I feel he has a lot of knowledge but a less than clear way of communicating this to the reader. The Quest of the Golden Stairs is written in the form of a fairy tale. It tells of Prince Starbeam, who is on a quest to become a king in the world of faery. The events of the tale are less important than the descriptions of faery, which Waite portrays as an idealistic, mystical world beyond the realm of our ordinary senses. Despite its subject, the style of the book will probably not appeal to the average reader of fantasy, fairy tales or folk tales. While I appreciated some of Waite's insights into the Otherworld, I have to admit I found most of the book cumbersome to get through. From one point of view, I suppose this difficulty can be seen as part of the reader's own spiritual quest. This is a difficult book to describe; I can probably best convey its flavor by giving a quote from the end of the book:<br /><br /> &quot;For the Lion and the Lamb are at peace in faerie, the Dove is in the Eagle's nest; there are golden waters, rivers of waters of gold, footmarks of enchantment, wings for rainbow flight, and stars following: there is a Spirit of the Woods beside me, clothed in green samite, singing through a herb-garden of savours. And this is the very end -I bear my faithful witness- to the Quest of the Golden Stairs and the Way of a Crown in faerie.&quot;faerie.&quot; <br />  <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-07-28
US	52465175	R1KBBG3E7ZM4JB	0060524367	287340205	The Middle Mind: Why Americans Don't Think for Themselves	Books	4	66	68	N	N	Original, thoughtful critique of contemporary culture	Despite its flaws (which many other reviewers were quick to spot), I found The Middle Mind to be a refreshing look at the bland mediocrity of contemporary American culture. This book may be better appreciated as a collection of essays (which, to a large extent, it is: some of the material has already been published in Harper's) than a book with a unified theme. If you judge it by its title and expect a focused discussion of the middle mind you will be disappointed. If you take each chapter on its own merits, however, you can admire the style, scope and originality of Curtis White's writing.<br /><br />The middle mind is that superficial, politically correct, nonthreatening cultural terrain that is all around us today. It is, as White tells us, prevalent in the media (especially the supposedly liberal media such as NPR), academia and politics. To the right of the middle mind are the cultural conservatives who want to turn back the clock to a mythic America of the past; to the left are the &quot;tenured radicals&quot; whose criticism of society seldom reaches beyond the university. Steven Spielberg (whose Saving Private Ryan is methodically criticized; White does a good job in exposing it as a simplistic, anachronistic piece of pro-war propaganda), Charlie Rose and NPR's Terry Gross are given as examples of the middle mind in action. I am not familiar with the latter two, but White portrays them as pseudo-serious talk shows full of celebrity gossip.<br />There are a couple of problems with this book. One is the insufficient attention given to the central topic of the middle mind itself. White gives some good examples of it, but never really pins down the middle mind and its relationship to the extremes. Another, related problem is that White, especially in the last few chapters, get bogged down in a  complicated technical discussion of metaphysics which, if I understand it correctly, undercuts the book's premise to some degree. For one thing, these highly theoretical arguments are the very kind that the aforementioned tenured radicals are so fond of. White discusses the theories of Derrida and Hegel. Derrida was a postmodernist who helped to start the trend of &quot;deconstruction&quot; so hated by conservatives like Harold Bloom. Hegel was, among other things, the philosopher who used the device known as dialectic. Although White doesn't get into this, dialectic --with its thesis, antithesis and synthesis-- is closely related to the problem of the middle mind. I'm not saying Hegel was an advocate of White's middle mind, but if you are going to bring in Hegel's extremely complex thinking, you should at least address the part of his philosophy that most closely relates to your topic. As for Derrida and postmodernism, White first seems to imply that they are part of the academic tendency to fall prey to the middle mind. But then, in the later chapters, he returns to Derrida and tries to use him to further his argument. I found White's final chapter, in which he advocates a culture that embraces the imagination,  admirable in its intent but a little too abstract to be convincing.<br />The limitations of this book do not take away from its value. White is an intelligent and entertaining writer; his style ranges from serious to cantankerous to tongue-in-cheek. I agreed with most of his criticisms; where I found him lacking were in his attempts to suggest positive alternatives. Yet the book's main focus is one of criticizing the status quo, and there is much value in that. His approach is non-dogmatic, so we can forgive him for not entirely succeeding in giving us the Final Answer to the problem of the middle mind. This is the kind of book that can stir readers out of intellectual complacency and remind them that creativity and the imagination lie outside the boundaries of today's pop culture.uments are the very kind that the aforementioned tenured radicals are so fond of. White discusses the theories of Derrida and Hegel. Derrida was a postmodernist who helped to start the trend of &quot;deconstruction&quot; so hated by conservatives like Harold Bloom. Hegel was, among other things, the philosopher who used the device known as dialectic. Although White doesn't get into this, dialectic --with its thesis, antithesis and synthesis-- is closely related to the problem of the middle mind. I'm not saying Hegel was an advocate of White's middle mind, but if you are going to bring in Hegel's extremely complex thinking, you should at least address the part of his philosophy that most closely relates to your topic. As for Derrida and postmodernism, White first seems to imply that they are part of the academic tendency to fall prey to the middle mind. But then, in the later chapters, he returns to Derrida and tries to use him to further his argument. I found White's final chapter, in which he advocates a culture that embraces the imagination,  admirable in its intent but a little too abstract to be convincing. <br />The limitations of this book do not take away from its value. White is an intelligent and entertaining writer; his style ranges from serious to cantankerous to tongue-in-cheek. I agreed with most of his criticisms; where I found him lacking were in his attempts to suggest positive alternatives. Yet the book's main focus is one of criticizing the status quo, and there is much value in that. His approach is non-dogmatic, so we can forgive him for not entirely succeeding in giving us the Final Answer to the problem of the middle mind. This is the kind of book that can stir readers out of intellectual complacency and remind them that creativity and the imagination lie outside the boundaries of today's pop culture.	2004-07-07
US	52465175	R2PXECHFJDL7RQ	0671792288	703162724	Bad Or, the Dumbing of America	Books	3	106	111	N	N	Only for unapologetic elitists	This book contains enough good points and valuable criticism of modern American culture that it's a shame that it's value is marred by flaws and excessive generalizing. Paul Fussell also wrote Class, a very funny and witty analysis of the supposedly nonexistent American class structure. In Bad, Fussell invents a whole new category: &quot;BAD&quot; --all capitals-- is distinguished from the merely &quot;bad.&quot; In the latter category are things from which we don't expect much. BAD, on the other hand, applies to people, objects, ideas and actions that are phony and pretentious.<br />Many of Fussell's points are well taken and hard to argue with. The focus of modern &quot;higher&quot; education on athletics at the expense of academics; the silly pretensions of &quot;gourmet&quot; restaurants; the lack of intelligence displayed in blockbuster movies; the incoherent babble of much contemporary language...there is a lot to recommend here. The problem is, Fussell gets carried away and ends up undermining his own argument by equating BAD with whatever doesn't conform to his own tastes and idiosyncrasies. In the chapter on architecture, for example, he is contemptuous of almost  anything built in the last fifty years without any real basis other than personal taste. Again, his often valid critique of modern language (e.g. euphemisms, corporate jargon and overly complex signs) ends up getting diluted by his picayune insistence on perfect grammar, even in poetry (I can agree that most of the poems he quotes are BAD, but to say that poetry must be grammatical is silly). Fussell's opinions on music border on the bizarre. Wagner, Leonard Bernstein, Andrew Lloyd Webber, along with all reggae music are, we are informed, all BAD, while Beethoven and Brahms are dismissed as &quot;B&quot; composers. It is remarks like these that detract from the book's general thesis.<br /> He takes many potshots at whole cities and regions, which ends up making him sound like just another urban elitist who looks down on anyone who doesn't live on one of the coasts. Finally (at least for the purposes of this review), his critique of &quot;BAD beliefs&quot; is so inclusive as to leave me wondering what he thinks it's good to believe in. He thoroughly despises anything new age but he also gets in his digs against religious fundamentalists and materialism. What does that leave? I'm afraid Fussell takes refuge in the kind of highbrow skepticism that mocks  whatever isn't sanctioned by the so-called experts.<br />Many of Fussell's observations in BAD are important ones and go to the heart of what's wrong with today's culture. The ubiquity of mindless pop culture, sports and advertising and the overall anti-intellectual climate is something to be truly concerned about. Unfortunately, he couldn't resist throwing too wide a net and including many things that aren't so bad. This book comes very close at times to being an example of what it is criticizing. If you are going to equate BAD with snobby and pretentious, it's best not to come across as too much of a snob yourself. All in all, not a BAD book, but not quite GOOD either.itist who looks down on anyone who doesn't live on one of the coasts. Finally (at least for the purposes of this review), his critique of &quot;BAD beliefs&quot; is so inclusive as to leave me wondering what he thinks it's good to believe in. He thoroughly despises anything new age but he also gets in his digs against religious fundamentalists and materialism. What does that leave? I'm afraid Fussell takes refuge in the kind of highbrow skepticism that mocks   whatever isn't sanctioned by the so-called experts. <br />Many of Fussell's observations in BAD are important ones and go to the heart of what's wrong with today's culture. The ubiquity of mindless pop culture, sports and advertising and the overall anti-intellectual climate is something to be truly concerned about. Unfortunately, he couldn't resist throwing too wide a net and including many things that aren't so bad. This book comes very close at times to being an example of what it is criticizing. If you are going to equate BAD with snobby and pretentious, it's best not to come across as too much of a snob yourself. All in all, not a BAD book, but not quite GOOD either.	2004-06-29
US	52465175	RULPNQK6O61ME	1840460938	426383140	Nietzsche and Postmodernism (Postmodern Encounters)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good introduction to Nietzsche and postmodernism	This is really  more of an essay than a book, but it provides a clear introduction to some complex ideas. Dave Robinson explores the notion that Nietzsche was a forerunner of postmodernism. As Robinson points out, both Nietzsche and postmodernism are difficult to pin down. Nietzsche wrote many contradictory things at different times, and many of his writings were aphorisms and more poetic than literal. As for postmodernism, the term is used in so many ways that a precise definition is probably impossible.<br />Still, we have some notion of what postmodernism is, and Robinson gives a good sampling of thinkers who embody its general ideas. Wittgenstein, Derrida, Foucault, Lyotard and Rorty are all introduced. In a very general way, postmodernism refers to the collapse of traditional metaphysics and morality. In this sense, Nietzsche, whose most famous (or infamous) maxim was the &quot;Will to Power,&quot; can be considered postmodern.<br />This short book will not be of much interest to either serious scholars of philosophy (who will find it too simple) or to that pervasive type of anti-intellctual mass society consumer (a product of postmodern decadence?) who thinks philosophy is only for Europeans or graduate students. It is, however, useful to the intellectually curious reader who may not have an extensive background in these areas or who hasn't read about them in some years. The many references can point the reader in a useful direction for further study.	2004-06-21
US	52465175	R396WVAJESG91A	0523238770	458162565	Alexander of Macedon	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Alexander: conqueror, explorer, demi-god	Alexander the Great is one of the most fascinating characters in history.<br />In his short life of thirty-two years, Alexander conquered most of the known world and was considered a living god in many places. His conquests not only altered the political landscape of the ancient world, but opened up communications between East and West. This had consequences in art, philosophy and religion as well as trade and commerce. Harold Lamb, who also wrote biographies of other famous leaders such as Genghis Khan, Hannibal and Cyrus, is clearly fascinated with his subject in this book. He reveals that most of it was written in Asia, where he retraced many of Alexander's journeys. Yet I found the book, while compelling at times, to be uneven and somehow lacking a smooth narrative flow. This is no doubt partly due to the problem of reconstructing the life of a man who lived so long ago and left no written documents of his own. Lamb admits to compiling the facts from many different sources. Yet much of the book is written as though it were a work of historical fiction, with scenes and dialogue. I found the switching back and forth between fictionalized accounts and quotes from historical sources made the book a little hard to get into. I also read Lamb's biography of Genghis Khan, which was written in a similar style. In my opinion, he handled his subject more smoothly in that work.<br />I still think Alexander of Macedon is well worth reading for anyone interested in this character and historical period. I am perhaps judging the book too harshly for reasons that are not the author's fault. As Lamb points out, Alexander was an enigmatic man whose motives were often obscure. Although he was one of the greatest military commanders of all time, he was apparently not motivated primarily by the desire for conquest. He had an inquisitive nature. Although he disagreed with his renowned tutor Aristotle on many issues, he shared the philosopher's hunger for knowledge of all things. His relentless marches, in which he faced and defeated many armies, seemed to be propelled by a curiosity about the world, its people and boundaries (in Alexander's day, the size of the world was unknown and no one in Greece or Macedon had ever ventured much further East than Persia).<br />Anyone wanting to become more familiar with Alexander, his empire and military exploits will probably enjoy this book, but will have to explore further as well. A good companion to this book is the PBS video In The Footsteps of Alexander the Great, which I will probably review soon.lentless marches, in which he faced and defeated many armies, seemed to be propelled by a curiosity about the world, its people and boundaries (in Alexander's day, the size of the world was unknown and no one in Greece or Macedon had ever ventured much further East than Persia).<br />Anyone wanting to become more familiar with Alexander, his empire and military exploits will probably enjoy this book, but will have to explore further as well. A good companion to this book is the PBS video In The Footsteps of Alexander the Great, which I will probably review soon.	2004-06-18
US	52465175	R1KLAXDINDBIIE	1891411020	31097057	Merlin's Message : Reawakening and Remembering	Books	5	14	16	N	N	How to do real magic	This book is a very clear and direct explanation of how to manifest what you want in your life. As Marelin explains, life is not what it appears to be, but what we think, feel and expect. To change what we get, we must first change what we see on the inside. As she puts it, &quot;You have to BE it to see it, and you must see it to be it.&quot; There are many books around that tell us that we create our own reality; some are very helpful, but few are written in as concise and direct a way as Merlin's Message. This book works on both sides of the brain --the left, by describing precisely how the universe works; the right, by the inspirational tone, much of it in verse. I would highly recommend this book to anyone familiar (maybe even burnt out) with metaphysical and new age philosophy as well as anyone new to the idea that reality is a mirror of our thoughts and feelings.	2004-06-17
US	52465175	RA895KLEJNC5I	0872864251	703986147	Joe's Word: An Echo Park Novel (City Lights Noir)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Slice-of-life novel of L.A. neighborhood	Joe's Word is a mostly enjoyable but sometimes too self-consciously quirky novel about the residents of Echo Park, an unhip section of L.A., &quot;on the wrong side of Sunset Boulevard&quot; as Joe, the narrator, puts it. Joe is a &quot;writer for hire,&quot; a quaintly unlikely profession in today's digital world (though the novel is set in 1995, when the Internet was in its infancy). Joe's work consists mainly in writing resumes, but he also has some  offbeat clients, such as Willie, a middle-aged man who collects Asian penpals and Beanie, an eccentric sidewalk proselytizer. Joe's Word doesn't have much action; the novel centers on the everyday conversations and events in this neighborhood. Joe's office is next to a beauty salon called Hair Today, whose proprietress Teresa also acts as Joe's assistant (as improbable as it is that someone like Joe would be in a position to hire a staff). Joe drifts into a relationship with one of Teresa's clients, a younger woman (though Joe's age is never specified, he seems to be in his mid-forties or thereabouts) named Clio.<br />The story is meandering, the pace slow and leisurely. This book was first published in France. The author, Elizabeth Stromme, has previously published books in that country, and I can see why. The pace and the focus on eccentric provincial characters has a European flavor with which many Americans (including, I'm a little ashamed to admit, this one) may get impatient. The book's jacket calls it a &quot;noir style&quot; novel, and this is sort of true, only it's noir sans many of the qualities that noir usually contains, such as murder and suspense. The tale flirts with crime and shady dealings, but they remain in the background. My least favorite parts of the book were Joe's long letters to would-be Asian brides (and the replies) for his client Willie. These letters are, I suppose, meant to be funny, but to me they just dragged on.  This is a book I wanted to like more than I did; I like novels set in L.A. as well as noirish atmosphere and Elizabeth Stromme is a fine writer. While I enjoyed it, I just found the pace too slow and some of the characters a little too cutesy.  On the other hand, this is the sort of book that has  an ambiance and characters that some people will adore, and I hope it finds its audience..A. as well as noirish atmosphere and Elizabeth Stromme is a fine writer. While I enjoyed it, I just found the pace too slow and some of the characters a little too cutesy.  On the other hand, this is the sort of book that has  an ambiance and characters that some people will adore, and I hope it finds its audience.	2004-05-17
US	52465175	RHE5RVQ32KLY6	1556431570	470792187	Path Notes of an American Ninja Master	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Good introduction to a deadly and fascinating art	Like the martial art he discusses, Glenn Morris has a kind of sneaky and indirect way of imparting information. After reading Pathnotes of an American Ninja Master for the second time, I came to appreciate the many valuable anecdotes, techniques and references it contains. I say sneaky not only because ninjas are known for their stealth, but because this book could easily be dismissed as another popularized, watered-down Westernization of a traditional way. While it is written in a casual and popular style, if you pay attention you will find that Pathnotes is not at all superficial and is constructed to point the reader towards certain doors; if you wish to pass through these doors, you will have to do a lot of work and studying beyond this (or any) book.<br />Morris at times comes across as boastful, often listing his many titles and accomplishments. Paradoxically, while he calls himself a Master, he also insists many times that he is a mere &quot;hobbyist&quot; when it comes to the martial arts. The book may frustrate anyone looking for a step-by-step manual on how to learn ninjutsu; such a book would almost inevitably be a failure, as the very nature of this elusive art is nonlinear. Morris also conveys the fact that this book, like any book, can only be a starting point; you can't learn any martial art or spiritual tradition solely from a book. Morris delves into the many common points the ninja tradition shares with Taoism, chi gung and yoga; he places a lot of importance on awakening the kundalini energy. Since ninja have entered the popular imagination, mainly through TV and movies, it has become difficult to separate the real from the fake and merely commercial. This is compounded by the very nature of the ninja, for whom hiding and misdirection are primary strategies. It is similar in some ways to studying the Western esoteric tradition, where the ever-present thief god Hermes often makes it difficult to see the line that divides truth from lies.<br />Although I am certainly no expert and not able to judge Morris' credentials, I think Pathnotes is an honest contribution to the field. This conclusion is based on the stress he places on following your own inner guidance and the recommendation to widely study a variety of teachings. One of the distinguishing traits of ninja is that they ultimately follow an inner path rather than any outer authority. It is also a very entertaining book for anyone interested in the martial arts and Eastern religions.hough I am certainly no expert and not able to judge Morris' credentials, I think Pathnotes is an honest contribution to the field. This conclusion is based on the stress he places on following your own inner guidance and the recommendation to widely study a variety of teachings. One of the distinguishing traits of ninja is that they ultimately follow an inner path rather than any outer authority. It is also a very entertaining book for anyone interested in the martial arts and Eastern religions.	2004-05-15
US	52465175	R26WFY22507DN2	0684873249	581985231	Kingdom of Fear: Loathsome Secrets of a Star-Crossed Child in the Final Days of the American Century	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Memoirs of a true outlaw	Unlike many reviewers of this book, this was my first experience reading one of Hunter S. Thompson's books. Having seen the bizarre and hilarious film, Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas, however, I had some idea of what to expect (I look forward to reading that book). So the fact that some of this material may have been in previous books did not bother me. On the other hand, not being familiar with the well known episodes of Thompson's life made the erratic and disjointed style of the book -he jumps from one time period to another without warning-- harder to follow than if I'd had some background. You simply cannot read an author like Thompson expecting a conventional style, and I appreciated his unique, if often drug-induced perspective. With Thompson, all of the usual barriers are meaningless, such as those that separate fact from fantasy, the humorous from  the serious and even past from present. There is simply a barrage of words, emotions, perceptions and anecdotes, revealed in a seemingly random order.<br />Yet Kingdom Of Fear is not entirely without theme or structure. There is an underlying message, as the title suggests, that the nation is moving into a dark period that seriously jeopardizes our privacy and civil liberties. Thompson relates this post-Sept. 11, 2001 environment to episodes in his own life when authorities violated his rights. Unlike a book by the average political commentator or activist, however, Thompson makes his case with emotional verbal outbursts and poetic observations more than logical arguments. This is refreshing; Thompson's style is an anachronistic challenge to the overly regulated, homogenized and conforming culture that has been building, not only since 9/11, but over the last few decades.	2004-04-10
US	52465175	R3V4QYO2S6TLOA	0812534077	513391749	Memory and Dream	Books	4	14	16	N	N	How real is art?	Charles de Lint is a popular writer in the genre known as urban fantasy -stories that place traditional magical elements into a contemporary setting. In Memory &amp; Dream, de Lint takes a fascinating look at the creative process and explores the possibility of artists who can literally create reality. The novel jumps between the present (the early 90s) and the past twenty years leading up to it. Isabelle is an artist who falls under the spell of an enigmatic mentor named Rushkin, a famous reclusive artist. Rushkin teaches Isabelle about painting, and she learns far more from him than from the art classes she takes at college. Yet Rushkin has a very dark side as well, which turns out to be much deeper than she realizes.<br />Through Rushkin, Isabelle learns that she has the ability to \\"bring across\\" creatures that she paints. These entities become actual flesh and blood beings with lives of their own. She falls in love with one of her own creations, an American Indian named John. This ability poses many complications for Isabelle and the people around her. She cannot quite believe that these creatures are real in the human sense. Rushkin, meanwhile, reveals ulterior motives for teaching Isabelle and is soon creating \\"numena\\" (the name given these creatures) of his own, which turn out to be evil counterparts to the ones Isabelle creates.<br />I think the real theme of Memory &amp; Dream is the relationship between art and reality. Isabelle's best friend Katherine is a troubled writer, and she plays an important role in inspiring some of Isabelle's painting. So, the question arises, if a writer puts a character in a story, and an artists paints it, who is the creator? Or, is the answer, \\"neither,\\" because these creations actually have an existence of their own in a kind of Platonic universe, waiting to be brought into our world by artists?<br />While these are fascinating questions, I don't want to give the impression that Memory &amp; Dream is a purely intellectual or philosophical novel. It is primarily a very suspenseful story with engaging characters who live in a magical universe. I have read several of de Lint's books (this one twice), and he is one of my favorite contemporary fantasy authors.r philosophical novel. It is primarily a very suspenseful story with engaging characters who live in a magical universe. I have read several of de Lint's books (this one twice), and he is one of my favorite contemporary fantasy authors.	2004-04-08
US	52465175	R2B0LZLQ1KLUXU	0140191895	131816381	The Confessions of Aleister Crowley: An Autohagiography	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Beast, magus, poet, mountaineer	Aleister Crowley is one of the most fascinating underground characters of the 19th Century. This &quot;autohagiography,&quot; as it is not so modestly called, is a more than 900 page account of his life, at least up to the time of his writing the Confessions, when he was in his mid-forties. An autobiography can never be objective, and this is especially the case when it is written by a figure as controversial as Crowley. Reviled by many as a satanist, admired by others as a prophet, your own beliefs and predilections will color the way you view this man and his unconventional ideas. Crowley was surely a man with a large ego; at times he comes across like a meglomaniac, comparing himself with Buddha and Mohammad. He authored, among many other works, The Book of the Law, allegedly channelled (as we would say now) by a superior intelligence called Aiwass. Crowley maintained that this book marked the beginning of a new aeon, of which he was the prophet. Claims such as this might, to some, be enough to discredit Crowley. Yet his actual influence on culture cannot be denied. He inspired many occult, new age and countercultural thinkers, including Timothy Leary; His Thoth tarot deck has become very popular; his commentaries on the Qaballah are among the most complete by modern authors; He wrote quite a bit of lyrical poetry, much of which is quoted in this book.<br /><br />  The Confessions gives the reader a multifaceted look at Crowley. There are long descriptions of several mountaineering expeditions to exotic places such as the Himalayas. Anyone interested in travelogues should appreciate this book, which covers much of Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Crowley's main calling was magick (he invented this spelling to differentiate it from stage magic). Although he is commonly referred to as a black magician or satanist, this is far from clearcut. His early years of being raised by fundamentalist Christians (his own mother actually gave him the nickname, The Beast) set off a lifetime of rebellion against conventional religion. His often outlandish behavior and conflicts with authority figures contributed to his reputation as a dark magician. There is no doubt that he dabbled with demonic forces, yet reading his memoirs his basic intention seems to have been the progress and spiritual freedom of humanity. Crowley was a complex character, and this comes across in the Confessions. Parts of this long book are a little confusing; in some chapters, he rattles off one name after another, and he sometimes refers to people by their magickal names, which makes the cast of characters at least as challenging to keep up with as those in a Russian novel. His account of his actions in America during World War l, where he was accused of spying for the Germans (but insisted he was really a double agent for the British and Americans) is especially sketchy and made me wonder if he was telling the truth. On the other hand, he gives some very intelligent (if often condescending) commentaries on many societal issues. I found his comments on America, as he experienced it in the early 20th Century, especially interesting and insightful. One fact about Crowley that must be remembered is that he identified with the English upper class. He comes across as quite snobbish in many respects, including his disdain for many ethnic groups. He also had the aristocratic contempt for working for a living. Some of his remarks about women will not be appreciated by contemporary female readers. The fact is, his attitude on these issues was typical for his time (he lived from 1875-1947) and not evidence of anything especially sinister about Crowley. Crowley led a rather bohemian existence and had several wives and numerous affairs, many of which are recounted here (he was reputedly bisexual, although he does not discuss this in the book).<br />  Whether you like, agree with or approve of Aleister Crowley, the Confessions are a fascinating, well written account of a trulyunique individual.unique individual.	2004-03-01
US	52465175	RAVXLMXLYOGV5	0060548827	154942010	Chinese Takeout: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Gritty tale of  the downtown New York art scene	Chinese Takeout is a very readable and entertaining novel of a struggling artist named Orloff Trenchant, known as Or. Or is among the many downtown New York City artists trying to climb out of poverty and obscurity. As the novel begins, Or is quickly plummeting to new depths in his fledgling career. His girlfriend dumps him for a wealthy art collector,  probably the worst insult possible to a bohemian artist. Meanwhile he is living in a broken down van and his only regular income is  selling used books on the streets. Chinese Takeout is not big on plot; it is a meandering but observant look at life on the streets in this rather fascinating subculture. All of the action takes place over a couple of months during the end of 2000; the controversial presidential election of that year is in the background for much of the novel. Arthur Nersesian, who has written a couple of other books with a similar theme, creates several interesting characters in addition to Or, including Rita, the heroin addict with whom Or becomes infatuated and Shade, the older artist who lets Or sublet his loft. The book effectively evokes the worldview of the artist, who sees life in vivid, emotionally-charged and uncompromising terms. On the other hand Or and some of the other artists can also be arrogant and self-absorbed in their self-conscious quest for authenticity. The main challenges Or faces during the time we spend with him are to sculpt a headstone in a few short weeks (no easy matter) and the roller coaster ride of being in love with a self-destructive addict. Chinese Takeout is a fast read, always interesting and sometimes thought-provoking. I wouldn't call it an especially deep or memorable book, but while I was reading it I had trouble putting it down.	2004-02-19
US	52465175	R1BRW2V4X8KL7U	1561706442	233621827	Karma Releasing: Clearing Away Painful Patterns from Your Past	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Short &amp; simple but very powerful	This tape is only about 30 minutes long total. On the first side, Doreen Virtue gives a very concise summary of karma and other spiritual principles. She explains that while karma is based on cause and effect, we are not obliged to suffer because of past mistakes. The idea that growth can only come through suffering is an illusion. She explains that many of us have made vows in other lifetimes, such as poverty, celibacy or simply to suffer, that are affecting our present lives. She also reminds us that linear time is not real; everything, including our &quot;past&quot; lives, is happening now. Side two of the tape is a very powerful meditation that, with the help of angels, allows us to release karma from this and other lifetimes. She gives a very complete list of possible ways we may be depriving ourselves or suffering from events in this or other lives, and has us release all of it. She asks us to let go of the pain we may have caused others as well as pain we have suffered at the hands of others. I have only listened to it once so far, but I know I will listen again many times to be reminded of these precious lessons.	2004-01-20
US	52465175	R14N1EYD7QJQKE	0953881040	12874895	Tales from the Time Loop: The Most Comprehensive Expose of the Global Conspiracy Ever Written and All You Need to Know to Be Truly Free	Books	4	166	175	N	N	Freeing yourself from the illusion	David Icke is one of the most controversial &quot;conspiracy theorists&quot; in the world. He has both a dedicated following and some influential enemies who do their best to silence him. Some criticize him for not being original. True, most of his ideas can be found elsewhere, but he has an exceptional ability to synthesize theories and explain them in an easy to understand and entertaining style. He also draws a lot from contemporary culture, especially movies, as with his use of the term &quot;matrix&quot;  to describe our current state. This is not a bad thing; Icke believes (and I agree) that films like The Matrix series are not simply entertainment, but contain actual information about the world we live in, or the world we believe we live in. This, in fact, is his main message: that virtually everything we have been taught to believe by mainstream society is false. Governments, the media, big business, mainstream medicine, education and so forth, all promote an agenda designed to keep us deceived and enslaved. Some of the most controversial material in his books are the &quot;reptilians.&quot; In this book, he integrates this theory with the idea of a holographic universe. Again, this is not an original theory (the holographic theory was popularized by Michael Talbot, who Icke quotes at length here), but one well worth introducing to more people. In a later section, he describes his mystical experiences after taking ayahuasca, a hallucinogenic plant used in the Amazon. He describes what a voice, which identifies itself as the Infinite, tells him --that we are caught in this illusory &quot;time loop&quot; and that the only reality is Oneness or infinite love. Now this is pretty much what mystics have always said, but, again, Icke explains it very well (whether you believe he is giving a literal account of a genuine experience or  telling us what the voice of the Infinite might say). If I have any criticism of the book (and Icke's style in general), it is that he spends at least 90% of the book telling us about all the lies, brutality and deception (the sections on the US war against Iraq are especially depressing and graphic) and the other 10% telling us how it's all an illusion. Even though he concludes by saying we should neither fear nor hate those who are deceiving us, the sheer quantity of evil deeds he exposes makes it difficult to walk away with a positive outlook.  I would like to see him shift his emphasis a little more in the direction of the mysticism he clearly embraces and give a little less attention to all the darkness. Not that we should deny the darkness, but once you know it's there, it becomes redundant to identify every form it takes. If you really want to understand what lies behind the apparent reality of events, you should read this book.e spends at least 90% of the book telling us about all the lies, brutality and deception (the sections on the US war against Iraq are especially depressing and graphic) and the other 10% telling us how it's all an illusion. Even though he concludes by saying we should neither fear nor hate those who are deceiving us, the sheer quantity of evil deeds he exposes makes it difficult to walk away with a positive outlook.  I would like to see him shift his emphasis a little more in the direction of the mysticism he clearly embraces and give a little less attention to all the darkness. Not that we should deny the darkness, but once you know it's there, it becomes redundant to identify every form it takes. If you really want to understand what lies behind the apparent reality of events, you should read this book.	2004-01-16
US	52465175	R1Y8QZNV24Z8IS	0375508546	271537012	The Coffee Trader: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Compelling tale of financial intrigue	The Coffee Trader, set in 17th Century Amsterdam, is a fascinating account of financial wheeling and dealing amongst the Portugese Jewish community. David Liss obviously did a lot of research and this novel is filled with tidbits about coffee, the financial markets of that time as well as Dutch and Jewish ways of life. It is an extremely readable novel, with many twists and turns, some unexpected. It focuses on Miguel Lienzo, a wily trader who is desperately looking for a way to reverse his run of bad luck. When an equally conniving woman named Geertruid suggests that he gets involved in a new commodity --coffee-- he gradually becomes immersed in an increasingly complex and dangerous plan to become wealthy. The Coffee Trader is filled with deception; Miguel does not know who he can trust, including his own brother Daniel. He has a powerful enemy named Parido, who is part of the Ma'amad, which supervises the Portugese Jewish community and has the power to excommunicate anyone who violates its very strict rules of conduct. This novel will appeal to anyone interested in how financial markets work. Commodoties or futures trading apparently began with the Dutch, and this book describes some very complex trading maneuvers, many of which, I must confess, were beyond my ability to comprehend. This did not, however, prevent me from enjoying the fast pace of the book and the many plot twists. It could be argued that this novel has an excess of lying and backstabbing; it seems that no one can be trusted. In this way, it's almost like those evening soap operas like Dallas, where everyone is scheming against everyone else. Still, I found the tale entertaining enough, as well as an insightful exploration of a very interesting place and time, to recommend it. Despite the apparent excesses, the myriad schemes do resolve themselves by the conclusion in a mostly satisfactory way. It was especially interesting to learn more about the history of coffee, an item that only seems to grow more popular with the passing of time.more popular with the passing of time.	2003-12-06
US	52465175	R3Q2KGTS7DSPPL	0785264280	556355292	The Traveler's Gift: Seven Decisions that Determine Personal Success	Books	3	172	199	N	N	Effective principles but will not appeal to everyone	The Traveler's Gift is a book of success principles told as a parable. It has several points in common with many other books in the self-help genre. On the plus side, if you study and follow the principles, you will probably benefit. On the downside, it is not especially original and it's not a book you would read for its literary qualities. This book also has a certain spiritual and political slant that will appeal to many readers but will alienate others. The hero of the story is David Ponder, a man down on his luck who, after an accident, finds himself hurled through history meeting many famous (and a couple of not so famous) leaders and other heroic figures. This includes two American presidents, Lincoln and Truman, Christopher Columbus, Ann Frank and King Solomon. The spiritual slant is definitely Judeo-Christian, with the archangel Gabriel even making an appearance. I suppose this aspect of the book can be appreciated as a parable even for those who don't share the author's religious perspective. The political slant I found a bit more problematic. Anyone who has qualms about  the conventional American interpretation of historical events such as the dropping of the atomic bomb on Japan, the noble motives of Christopher Columbus or the pure idealism of Lincoln and the Union during the Civil War might be distracted from the self-help aspect of the book and question some of the author's assumptions and historical sources. It may be that he is aiming his message at a very specific type of reader and is not concerned with such possible objections. This bias, no doubt, is reflected in the success principles themselves, which are mostly very macho and gung-ho (one notable exception is the section on forgiveness), with many military analogies . Still, the principles, which are called &quot;seven decisions that determine personal success&quot; are sound and well explained. If people follow the advice to be decisive, accept responsibility for their actions, and have faith in the future, they will almost certainly have good results. I was not especially enamored with the style of this book, but I know that it has touched and helped many people and I'm sure it will help many more in the future.h in the future, they will almost certainly have good results. I was not especially enamored with the style of this book, but I know that it has touched and helped many people and I'm sure it will help many more in the future.	2003-11-22
US	52465175	R3OV3MDX3P1NB9	0395073685	743325552	Tales of Manhattan	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A New York long departed	Tales of Manhattan is an enjoyable, if sometimes anachronistic collection of stories of life (mainly of the upper class) in Manhattan in the early 1960s and earlier. The book is divided into three sections: Memories of an Auctioneer, Arnold &amp; Degener, One Chase Manhattan Plaza and The Matrons. Each section contains several stories, each related to a common theme. The first part deals with the recollections of an auctioneer who works for one of the city's most prestigious auction houses, probably based on Christie's or Sotheby's. The title of the second section refers to a law firm where the senior partners have all sorts of hidden suspicions and resentments towards one another. The final third refers to the wealthy older women who planned much of the social life for the city's upper class. I read this book partly as a historical and sociological study, but found it quite enjoyable as well. Auchincloss was an attorney in New York, so he no doubt had personal experience of many of the things of which he wrote. The book sort of grew on me as I read it. I'm not sure if this is because I liked the latter sections better than the earlier or because it took me a while to get in tune with the book's style. It is impossible to forget, when reading Tales of Manhattan, that you are reading about another time. This may be partly due to Auchincloss's use of language, which contains some slang and expressions that are rarely used today. It is also, of course, because he is describing the declining years of New York's European style social scene, comparable to the sort encountered in novels by Jane Austen and Edith Wharton. One of the stories, in fact, The Landmarker, deals with the very subject of an older man lamenting the end of the era in which he grew up. Along with the main focus on the rigidity and formality of the era's social life, the book delves into other topics, such as the conflict between the artistic temperament and practical life. Several stories deal rather specifically, and with admirable insight, into the predicament faced by people whose romantic or artistic ideals do not fit with their social environment. The section on the law firm gives the reader a glimpse into a corporate world, already fading when the book was written, presided over by the severe portraits of deceased, but still revered, partners. It is perhaps the most serious test of a book if it still has relevance several decades after it is written. Tales of Manhattan, while in some ways dated, has enough originality and enduring value to make it worthwhile for contemporary readers, including those without a particular interest in the period in which the book is set.pecifically, and with admirable insight, into the predicament faced by people whose romantic or artistic ideals do not fit with their social environment. The section on the law firm gives the reader a glimpse into a corporate world, already fading when the book was written, presided over by the severe portraits of deceased, but still revered, partners. It is perhaps the most serious test of a book if it still has relevance several decades after it is written. Tales of Manhattan, while in some ways dated, has enough originality and enduring value to make it worthwhile for contemporary readers, including those without a particular interest in the period in which the book is set.	2003-11-11
US	52465175	R1HFYA22SUHBGV	091581109X	190445261	Creating Money: Keys to Abundance	Books	5	82	84	N	N	My favorite prosperity book	Don't be put off by the fact (or claim if you prefer) that this book is channelled. If you simply remain open to the suggestions and guidance it offers, you'll find that it contains some of the best and most concise information on achieving prosperity that can be found anywhere. Orin and DaBen are the spirit guides who speak through Sanaya Roman and Duane Packer, who have also written several other books (including the series Living With Joy, Personal Power Through Awareness and Spiritual Growth, which I'd also recommend). Creating Money, although written from a metaphysical perspective, is concerned with the practical goal of focusing on what you really want and creating it. Although the title has a materialistic connotation, the advice is not to pursue money as an end in itself but, rather, as a tool to achieve your life's purpose. One example of some very good advice is the chapter Discovering What You Want, which suggests focusing not on money or another material goal but on the essence of what we feel the goal will bring us. Thus, if we feel money will bring us a feeling of security, it is this we should first work on creating. There are many very useful visualizations and exercises, especially on the subject of magnetizing. All in all, an extremely valuable book.	2003-10-21
US	52465175	R15IFVG0PRETX6	1561840769	254193442	Beyond Duality: The Art of Transcendence	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Some profound insights in a compact package	Beyond Duality is a compact presentation of some very complex metaphysical topics. I recommend it mainly to people who have some background in metaphysics, the occult, magick or a similar path. Newcomers to the field can too easily pass right over some of the material without recognizing its value. Alas, it is all to easy for those with far more experience to do the same, as knowledge of this sort can only be partially transmitted by the written word. That is, of course, the meaning of the first paragraph of the Tao Teh Ching, which is usually translated, &quot;The Tao that can be spoken is not the eternal Tao...&quot; Although Galian refers to the Tao in Beyond Duality, his techniques are rooted in the Western occult tradition, especially Hermeticism. A good companion volume to this book is the Kybalion, by Three Initiates, which discusses in some detail the theory of duality and how to transcend it. Galian is more concerned with practice than theory in this book, and he gives some very useful and original techniques. He calls his system, &quot;the way of power.&quot; It's quite likely that other systems have similiar, if not the same name (there being such a multitude of groups, schools and courses out there today), but names aren't very important. The most important technique Galian teaches is the Triangle of  Manifestation, where he instructs readers on how to create something by making use of duality rather than having it work against you. As he puts it, &quot;the secret of the Triangle of Manifestation is that we equilibrate our desired thought by thinking of its inherent contradiction.&quot;  This is an extremely complex idea (dealt with by Aleister Crowley among others), and I wish he had gone into more detail with it. Still, it gives the reader a lot to think about and it forces you to come up with some of your own interpretations rather than relying entirely on the writer for answers. Perhaps this was his intent. Galian gives credit to a long list of people in the first chapter for having influenced him, and his approach to magick is quite eclectic. This is a good book for anyone interested in the problem of duality, perhaps the most basic philosophical question of all, and for those looking to enhance their ability to manifest what they want in their lives.e in the first chapter for having influenced him, and his approach to magick is quite eclectic. This is a good book for anyone interested in the problem of duality, perhaps the most basic philosophical question of all, and for those looking to enhance their ability to manifest what they want in their lives.	2003-10-07
US	52465175	R3RFJRLYU9KKTO	0764583034	64176623	Life's Little Secrets & Shortcuts for Dummies Oxmoor House	Books	1	25	27	N	N	Secret # 1 -- don't waste your money on this book!	I am embarrassed to admit that I fell for a mail order promotion for this book (it's sold by a company called Oxmoor House). The title does specify that the book is for dummies, so I guess I'm one for buying it (though \\"dummy\\" books are getting popular, a sign of the times no doubt)...if you picked it up and looked at it you wouldn't pay more than a dollar or two for it. It's filled with the kind of \\"secret information\\" found in magazines and tabloids (the kind on the rack near the check-out counter in supermarkets). A little superficial information on every conceivable topic --diet, health, home decorating, eliminating clutter, etc. There's nothing that you couldn't find at your local library or surfing the internet. I browsed through it for about twenty minutes and put in in with a box of books I was donating to a library fair. I'm only thinking about it now because the company keeps sending me bills. Well, I made my final payment today and this review is my revenge!	2003-10-02
US	52465175	RITMYLES6VJI3	0375411151	209374208	Samaritan	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The motives of a do-gooder	I read The Wanderers, Richard Price's first novel, when I was a teenager and have read every one of his subsequent (seven including the present one) books. Although I've liked some better than others, they've all kept me thoroughly entertained and intrigued with the gritty street life Price so expertly evokes. Samaritan, like his last two novels, takes place in Dempsey, the fictional but believable small New Jersey city only a tunnel ride away from Manhattan. Samaritan is a combination mystery and psychological study. The title refers to Ray Mitchell, a man in his forties who abandons a writing career in Los Angeles to return to his hometown of Dempsey to teach. Ray is at loose ends. A recovering drug addict, he is estranged from his ex-wife and Ruby, his teenaged daughter and has no concrete plans for the future. He hopes that by returning to the home of his youth and helping some young people he will find direction. It is his need to help and be appreciated that is his downfall. For Ray is not the kind of &quot;samaritan&quot; who only gives help when it is truly needed; he is the kind who desperately needs to feel appreciated and will do practically anything to meet this need. The story is told partly in the present, after Ray has been assaulted and nearly killed, and partly in flashback as the events leading up to the assault are revealed. A childhood neighbor of Ray's, Nerese Ammons, is the policewoman who tries to figure out who attacked Ray and why. The problem is, Ray won't tell her and she (and the reader) cannot understand why. Nerese, a black woman who is about to retire from the police force, has problems of her own; she is a single mother with a family that includes criminals and drug abusers. In describing all this, I realize that a lot of it may sound familiar, even cliched (e.g. the cop about to retire), but Price has an unusual talent for transforming such material into a compelling story. His knack for dialogue, especially that of the city streets, is unsurpassed. Some popular writers write dialogue that sounds like writing; with Price, you can always *hear* the words and inflections. Samaritan is also helped by several interesting supporting characters, such as Salim, a troubled youth who Ray may be harming more than helping, and Tom Potenza, an ex-addict who counsels people around the projects. Race is a major factor throughout the novel, especially the question of what motivates a white man like Ray in his quest to &quot;save&quot; people who are mostly black. If Samaritan were presented as some kind of lesson in ethics or race relations, it would be simplistic and heavy-handed, but it isn't really that. Ray is a complex character whose motives are not entirely noble, but he is not a mere hypocrite. The novel explores the fine line that divides helping people for genuine as opposed to selfish reasons. Samaritan, like its main character, has its flaws and it's not my favorite Richard Price novel, but it is still an enjoyable and thought provoking tale.is unsurpassed. Some popular writers write dialogue that sounds like writing; with Price, you can always *hear* the words and inflections. Samaritan is also helped by several interesting supporting characters, such as Salim, a troubled youth who Ray may be harming more than helping, and Tom Potenza, an ex-addict who counsels people around the projects. Race is a major factor throughout the novel, especially the question of what motivates a white man like Ray in his quest to &quot;save&quot; people who are mostly black. If Samaritan were presented as some kind of lesson in ethics or race relations, it would be simplistic and heavy-handed, but it isn't really that. Ray is a complex character whose motives are not entirely noble, but he is not a mere hypocrite. The novel explores the fine line that divides helping people for genuine as opposed to selfish reasons. Samaritan, like its main character, has its flaws and it's not my favorite Richard Price novel, but it is still an enjoyable and thought provoking tale.	2003-09-23
US	52465175	RQ6F1A5VA04F	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	4	4	8	N	N	The real Gulf War	Jarhead is a compelling account of life in the Marines during the time of the Gulf War. Anthony Swofford is a sensitive and perceptive narrator whose experiences left him rather bitter. This book has received some negative reviews simply because Swofford tells us things about life in the military that conflict with the romanticized notions we get from the government, media and John Wayne movies. Swofford's reactions to his environment are rather ambivalent. His emotions range from patriotic fervor, which makes him eager to kill the enemy, to detached cynicism about the real motives for the war. This kind of ambivalence is probably the natural reaction of a person with any intelligence to a basically insane situation such as war. Swofford's recollections of the severity of boot camp will be familiar to not only veterans but anyone who has seen any war movies. While most movies are fictionalized, however, this book is reality and this comes through on every page. The function of the military, and the Marines in particular, is to turn ordinary people into obedient killing machines. This is not a value judgment, but simply a fact. The ideal soldier is one who does not question anything. From this perspective, Swofford is not an ideal Marine, for he often questions the wisdom, ethics and sanity of what is going on around him. He does not only refrain from sugarcoating the military, but he does not flinch from revealing less than flattering examples of his own behavior. He gives an account, for example, of threatening a new recruit with a loaded gun and bringing him to tears in retaliation for an accidental offense. Much of the book deals with Swofford's experiences leading up to his enlistment in the Marines. There is not all that much information about the Gulf War itself, but then there wasn't all that much to tell from the point of view of the individual soldier. The war was very brief with few American casualties. Yet, Swofford makes us realize that this did not in any way diminish the terror of those on the battlefield who knew they could die at any instant. He also gives harrowing accounts of Iraqi casualties, the kind of gruesome details routinely omitted from mass media reports. Swofford left the Gulf War in an angry and bitter state, not welcoming the hero status that his medals and the welcoming home town crowds bestowed upon him. It does seem that he brought some of his problems into the military and that the Marines cannot be blamed for all of his inner turmoil. Yet in some ways his \\"bad attitude\\" probably made him more able to see certain realities that other \\"better adjusted\\" recruits deliberately blinded themselves to. Swofford concludes that the Gulf War was fought, not for the interests of the average citizens of America, Kuwait or Saudi Arabia, but for politicians, Arab royalty and oil companies. To some this might seem cynical, but the reasons that lie behind wars are usually rather cynical. Swofford's observations are a refreshing violation of the usual admonitions to \\"pay no attention to that man behind the curtain.\\"ny way diminish the terror of those on the battlefield who knew they could die at any instant. He also gives harrowing accounts of Iraqi casualties, the kind of gruesome details routinely omitted from mass media reports. Swofford left the Gulf War in an angry and bitter state, not welcoming the hero status that his medals and the welcoming home town crowds bestowed upon him. It does seem that he brought some of his problems into the military and that the Marines cannot be blamed for all of his inner turmoil. Yet in some ways his \\"bad attitude\\" probably made him more able to see certain realities that other \\"better adjusted\\" recruits deliberately blinded themselves to. Swofford concludes that the Gulf War was fought, not for the interests of the average citizens of America, Kuwait or Saudi Arabia, but for politicians, Arab royalty and oil companies. To some this might seem cynical, but the reasons that lie behind wars are usually rather cynical. Swofford's observations are a refreshing violation of the usual admonitions to \\"pay no attention to that man behind the curtain.\\"	2003-08-16
US	52465175	R30FHBC6Q822FV	037541505X	98602710	Abandon: A Romance	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Rumi in California	Abandon is a novel that explores the results of mixing ancient mysticism with the rootless, multicultural modern world. This topic is also the subject of much of Pico Iyer's nonfiction, such as Video Night in Kathmandu and The Global Soul (I have read and highly recommend the latter). Iyer chooses Sufism, and the poet Rumi in particular to represent tradition in this somewhat dialectical novel. The opposing force, which consists of perpetual newness and impermanence is represented mainly by California, which Iyer sees almost mythically (as do many who arrive there from far away places). Abandon, of course, is (according to the cover) a romance, not a sociological treatise. However, in many respects, the romance takes a back seat to the more abstract questions which the book pursues. The rather star-crossed lovers of the novel are John Macmillan, an English graduate student living in California to study Sufism and Camilla, an enigmatic young woman who appears and disappears from John's life. Iyer makes a good choice in making Rumi John's specialty. For this Persian mystical poet is, according to the book, currently America's best selling poet; this is not hard to believe if you visit any large bookstore, not to mention any metaphysical or new age bookstore. This juxtapositioning of a mystical tradition that is steeped in introspection and mystery with modern mass culture is intrinsically bizarre, and Iyer takes this as his starting point for a rather bizarre love story. Camilla appears in John's life apparently at random, drawing him in with her contradictory need for and fear of intimacy. I have to confess that at times I found this part of the story annoying. John and Camilla repeat virtually the same scenes over and over many times; they become close then they part; they come together again and then quarrel for no good reason. Then they make up until Camilla becomes frightened again and leaves...Of course, many unhealthy relationships follow this kind of pattern. John and Camilla's interactions, however, are supposed to convey something much deeper than a mere dysfunctional relationship; I assume that John's ambivalent pursuit of Camilla is meant to mirror the Sufi's longing for God. Towards the end, this is actually illustrated quite nicely. The presentation of Sufism, the mystical sect of Islam, is also quite informative and interesting. There are numerous examples of Sufi poetry.There is also much international travel to places as diverse as Damascus, India, Paris and, finally to the heart of Sufism, Iran. John is lured to these places in search of ancient Sufi manuscripts which may or may not actually exist. All of this is fascinating, as are Iyer's ruminations on California as a place where people without roots seek new beginnings. What I most admired about this novel is what I perceived as a synthesis between the opposing forces of tradition and modernism (or postmodernism). At first, it seems that true Sufism is completely incompatible with modern life, and California in particular. John's adviser, for example, is a severe Iranian named Sefadhi who seems to embody the conservatism of ancient traditions like Islam. Yet John discovers something Sefadhi had written in his youth which reveals another side to the man. John similarly learns more about Camilla  that makes her more understandable. The novel may be suggesting that the true spirit of Sufism (which can also be considered the search for God or wholeness, however you may define it) can be found anywhere and perhaps especially in those places where it is least expected.John and Camilla's interactions, however, are supposed to convey something much deeper than a mere dysfunctional relationship; I assume that John's ambivalent pursuit of Camilla is meant to mirror the Sufi's longing for God. Towards the end, this is actually illustrated quite nicely. The presentation of Sufism, the mystical sect of Islam, is also quite informative and interesting. There are numerous examples of Sufi poetry.There is also much international travel to places as diverse as Damascus, India, Paris and, finally to the heart of Sufism, Iran. John is lured to these places in search of ancient Sufi manuscripts which may or may not actually exist. All of this is fascinating, as are Iyer's ruminations on California as a place where people without roots seek new beginnings. What I most admired about this novel is what I perceived as a synthesis between the opposing forces of tradition and modernism (or postmodernism). At first, it seems that true Sufism is completely incompatible with modern life, and California in particular. John's adviser, for example, is a severe Iranian named Sefadhi who seems to embody the conservatism of ancient traditions like Islam. Yet John discovers something Sefadhi had written in his youth which reveals another side to the man. John similarly learns more about Camilla  that makes her more understandable. The novel may be suggesting that the true spirit of Sufism (which can also be considered the search for God or wholeness, however you may define it) can be found anywhere and perhaps especially in those places where it is least expected.	2003-08-08
US	52465175	R2JKZ28RSA1EGP	0395963494	15085847	Bay of Souls: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Voodoo, intrigue and middle-aged angst	Bay of Souls is a relatively short novel that is interesting but at times convoluted. I have only read one other book by Robert Stone, Damascus Gate, which I thought was brilliant. This one, though not without merit, was a bit of a disappointment to me. Michael Ahearn is a professor at a small rural college. He is married and has a twelve-year old son. Michael's life is not unhappy, but it has a bleak quality to it, similar to the cold Northern landscape he inhabits. His marriage is basically good, but his wife Kristin is a formidable and somewhat aloof woman who seems to intimidate him a little. In short, like many men approaching middle age, Michael is doing all right, but feels confined and has the desire to experience something new. This something comes in the form of Lara Purcell, an exotically beautiful professor from a Caribbean island called St. Trinity. They impulsively start an affair and when Lara returns to her island home after her brother dies, Michael comes along. This, to me, is where the novel falters. While the contrast between the rural American heartland and the Third World tropics is obviously a deliberate part of the book, the transition is so abrupt that it seemed to me like a different book altogether.  On St. Trinity, Stone throws in a host of confusing, though typical (though more for a spy or suspense type novel) elements --corrupt officials, Columbian drug dealers, an  intrepid reporter,  American troops who covertly support a dictator. This part of the novel is a little cliched, with Michael running into the same cast of cloak-and-dagger type characters wherever he goes. The spirit of Voodoo also pervades the island, and this is central to the story. Lara believes her dead brother took possession of her soul before he died. She is now committed to retrieving it, which means she has to take part in some elaborate rituals. Lara is also deeply involved in all the political intrigue, in a way that is not well explained. For example, it is briefly noted that she was once a socialist (who may have had an affair with Castro) but then suddenly \\"switched sides\\" to support right wing extremists...why? Lara also apparently had some covert reason for  teaching at Michael's college; this too is never explained. I suppose these questions are not really the point of the novel, but for me they were holes that I can more easily tolerate in a suspense thriller than a literary novel like this one. Finally, the Voodoo aspect of the tale remains ambiguous --are the occult forces real or only in the minds of the participants? I suppose it isn't necessarily crucial to know this, but I simply found myself with too many unanswered questions by the end of the book. Robert Stone is an interesting and original writer. His use of language is always creative and there are many turns of phrase that I admired in this book, even while I was less than satisfied with their context.iefly noted that she was once a socialist (who may have had an affair with Castro) but then suddenly \\"switched sides\\" to support right wing extremists...why? Lara also apparently had some covert reason for  teaching at Michael's college; this too is never explained. I suppose these questions are not really the point of the novel, but for me they were holes that I can more easily tolerate in a suspense thriller than a literary novel like this one. Finally, the Voodoo aspect of the tale remains ambiguous --are the occult forces real or only in the minds of the participants? I suppose it isn't necessarily crucial to know this, but I simply found myself with too many unanswered questions by the end of the book. Robert Stone is an interesting and original writer. His use of language is always creative and there are many turns of phrase that I admired in this book, even while I was less than satisfied with their context.	2003-07-27
US	52465175	R20DJ11BZMEKKL	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A formula, though a good one	I have read three or four of Robert Parker's Spenser novels, mostly the audio book versions. There is something about the writing style that lends itself especially well to the audio format; I suppose it's the terse dialogue and fast pace. In any event, Back Story is the first Spenser novel I've read in print, and I must say I enjoyed it less than the others. If I counted right, Back Story is the thirtieth Spenser novel. With such a prolific series, a certain amount of repetition and predictability is inevitable, but this book seemed a little bit too by-the numbers, so much like previous entries with only the specifics updated for the new story. Still, Spenser is an entertaining character. He is able to make witty observations in even the most hazardous of circumstances. The usual supporting characters are in this novel as well -the sinister Hawk, Spenser's girlfriend Susan and expert marksman Vinnie. Back Story has all the elements readers have come to expect from a Parker novel, so maybe that should be enough. The basic mood is always light, no matter how much violence is going on. In this novel, Spenser is persuaded by his stepson Paul and Paul's friend Daryl to investigate the thirty year old murder of Daryl's mother. She was apparently killed by a revolutionary group calling itself the Dread Scott Brigade. Spenser soon finds that both local gangsters and law enforcement officials are trying to prevent him from looking into this killing. Some of Parker's cultural biases come out in this novel. He seems to categorize anyone affiliated with the 1960s counterculture as a violent revolutionary or a pot-smoking vegetable. The latter is a bit amusing when you consider that Spenser's diet seems to consist mainly of doughnuts, coffee and hard liquor. The bad guys of Back Story are of the basic suspense novel/B-movie variety -mafioso and their dumb but menacing bodyguards; wisecracking drug dealers and the mandatory psychopath whose mission is to kill Spenser. Robert Parker is a talented enough novelist that he can, at this point, get away with coasting on a winning formula and that is what he's done in Back Story. It's a fast-paced, often humorous, sometimes suspenseful but unmemorable entry in this time-honored series.ker is a talented enough novelist that he can, at this point, get away with coasting on a winning formula and that is what he's done in Back Story. It's a fast-paced, often humorous, sometimes suspenseful but unmemorable entry in this time-honored series.	2003-07-23
US	52465175	R33ZQHGQG6H0A7	0766144151	88552555	Genghis Khan or the Emperor of All Men 1928	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Compelling account of a conqueror	I found an old paperback edition of this 1927 book in a used book store and just found out that a new edition has very recently been published. Genghis Khan Emperor of All Men is a very readable fact-filled history of the great conqueror's life. Genghis Khan was born with the name Temujin in 1162. He was later given the title Genghis Khan, which means the Emperor of All Men. He came surprisingly close to living up to this grandiose title. Harold Lamb did a very good job of packing his book with information and writing it in an entertaining and informal style that does not compromise the educational value. There is an ample bibliography giving all of his sources. The modern reader may find the style a little dated; I had to look up several words and expressions that are now seldom used, but this is a very minor fault. Actually, it can also be considered a virtue. For it's a sad but true fact that much writing we now call \\"old fashioned\\" (this also applies to writing from England; I'm not even sure of Lamb's nationality) is distinguished from modern writing in that it contains a greater variety of words than we are used to. Genghis Khan achieved his notoriety by uniting many different nomadic tribes that had previously been at war with each other. Together they came to be known as the Mongols (prior to this there was one smaller tribe that had been called this). These new Mongols were sometimes erroneously called Tatars, which were a distinct tribe of their own. The history of the Mongols is exciting and frightening to explore. They were perhaps the most ferocious, ruthless and relentless group of \\"barbarians\\" the world has known. Under the brilliant and utterly ruthless generalship of Genghis Khan (and later his descendants), the Mongols conquered all of Asia and came close to dominating Europe as well. They won battles not only by their courage and ferocity but by utilizing extremely sophisticated military techniques and sometimes plain trickery (e.g. they would pretend to retreat then catch the enemy off guard). They were, of course, expert horsemen and archers.  They completely destroyed two ancient empires, the Chinese and Persian. The Mongols, probably more so than the Christian crusaders, prevented Islam from becoming the dominant force in the world. Lamb presents Genghis Khan as a very practical ruler. He cared little for politics or religion, and used these only as tools. For example, he expressed a belief in one God, but allowed Christians, Buddhists and Moslems alike (along with the older shamanistic nomads) to worship as they pleased, as long as they submitted to his rule. The Mongol empire endured for many centuries. After the death of Genghis Khan, his sons continued to expand its borders. His grandson Kubilai Khan was made famous in the West by Marco Polo. The Mongols played a large, probably underestimated role in world history. On the one hand, it is impossible not to admire their courage, determination and perseverance. When they decided to invade a place, even a vast empire like China, they simply kept attacking until they achieved victory, no matter what the cost. On the other hand, the Mongols are known for a savageness and brutality that is hard to match. On more than one occasion, they killed every single inhabitant of a city and burned everything to the ground. They are one group whom the term \\"barbarian\\" is probably not undeserved. Historically, like Alexander the Great and the Roman Empire, the Mongols were instrumental in opening up and connecting different regions of the world. They created a vast system of communication across Asia. All in all, this is a fascinating introduction to the life of Genghis Khan and the legacy of the Mongols.tend to retreat then catch the enemy off guard). They were, of course, expert horsemen and archers.  They completely destroyed two ancient empires, the Chinese and Persian. The Mongols, probably more so than the Christian crusaders, prevented Islam from becoming the dominant force in the world. Lamb presents Genghis Khan as a very practical ruler. He cared little for politics or religion, and used these only as tools. For example, he expressed a belief in one God, but allowed Christians, Buddhists and Moslems alike (along with the older shamanistic nomads) to worship as they pleased, as long as they submitted to his rule. The Mongol empire endured for many centuries. After the death of Genghis Khan, his sons continued to expand its borders. His grandson Kubilai Khan was made famous in the West by Marco Polo. The Mongols played a large, probably underestimated role in world history. On the one hand, it is impossible not to admire their courage, determination and perseverance. When they decided to invade a place, even a vast empire like China, they simply kept attacking until they achieved victory, no matter what the cost. On the other hand, the Mongols are known for a savageness and brutality that is hard to match. On more than one occasion, they killed every single inhabitant of a city and burned everything to the ground. They are one group whom the term \\"barbarian\\" is probably not undeserved. Historically, like Alexander the Great and the Roman Empire, the Mongols were instrumental in opening up and connecting different regions of the world. They created a vast system of communication across Asia. All in all, this is a fascinating introduction to the life of Genghis Khan and the legacy of the Mongols.	2003-07-20
US	52465175	R3QGZ3AJNSU7LY	0471249483	91138057	The Education of a Speculator	Books	4	41	46	N	N	Stocks, commodoties and almost everything else	The Education of a Speculator is a long, sometimes meandering account of the life of speculator Victor Niederhoffer. There is no particular order to this book, at least that I could discern; Niederhoffer jumps from topic to topic, going backwards and forwards in time. The style is almost stream of consciousness, with the main subject of finance digressing into topics as diverse as biology, music and squash (the author is a serious player of squash and other racquet sports). In addition to Niederhoffer's unconventional style of writing, the book assumes a fairly high level of knowledge regarding financial markets. Those (such as this reviewer) who are not well versed in the kind of articles, charts and data found in the Wall Street Journal or Barron's will often find themselves in way over their heads. For all this, I still recommend The Education of a Speculator, even to people not especially interested in the world of investing. Victor Niederhoffer is what may be called a holistic or macro thinker; he could also be called a Renaissance man. He has knowledge of many subjects and sees the connecting links between all events, objects and disciplines. He may not be right about everything, but his perspective is always interesting, intelligent and original. He combines the streetwise instincts of Brooklyn, where he grew up, with the scholarly mindset of Harvard, where he both graduated from and taught. As for investing itself, Niederhoffer, like many speculators (at one point he describes the overlapping definitions of an investor, a speculator and a gambler), has had many ups and downs in his life. When this book was written, he was at the top of his game; shortly afterwards he was wiped out. That, of course, was several years ago and he is still active as a writer (he has recently written a new book) and investor. I have always been fascinated with the world of investing, especially the kind of volatile speculating engaged in by people like Niederhoffer. Even if you don't understand all the details and nuances, the book conveys the dangers and excitement of this unpredictable universe. The author has spent many years compiling and analyzing data concerning markets, and he discusses how difficult it is to make predictions based on past performance. It is easy to look at a chart and, after the fact, describe how stocks or commodities moved in a logical, predictable manner. Often when you try to apply any seemingly logical system using real money, the results are disastrous. Niederhoffer seems to conclude that markets are paradoxical -they are both logical and illogical; sometimes they follow patterns but sometimes they are chaotic. And, most importantly, we can never be sure when order or chaos will prevail. If there is one overall lesson we can take from The Education of a Speculator, it is probably something like this -reality is almost infinitely complex with every part connected to every other part, the whole thing organized by some vast pattern that can only occasionally be comprehended.on't understand all the details and nuances, the book conveys the dangers and excitement of this unpredictable universe. The author has spent many years compiling and analyzing data concerning markets, and he discusses how difficult it is to make predictions based on past performance. It is easy to look at a chart and, after the fact, describe how stocks or commodities moved in a logical, predictable manner. Often when you try to apply any seemingly logical system using real money, the results are disastrous. Niederhoffer seems to conclude that markets are paradoxical -they are both logical and illogical; sometimes they follow patterns but sometimes they are chaotic. And, most importantly, we can never be sure when order or chaos will prevail. If there is one overall lesson we can take from The Education of a Speculator, it is probably something like this -reality is almost infinitely complex with every part connected to every other part, the whole thing organized by some vast pattern that can only occasionally be comprehended.	2003-07-19
US	52465175	R32GWAO9EOUCT6	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Insolvable enigma	I've read this novel three or four times and it never ceases to fascinate me. Recent films like The Matrix have explored the idea that what we assume to be real may not be. If you really want to delve into this kind of reality questioning in depth, read The Magus. The narrator, Nicholas Urfe, is a young Englishman who has recently graduated from Oxford. He has a rather arrogant and cynical view of the world, seeing himself as a sophisticated intellectual. He is drifting along with no definite plans, having casual affairs with women while doing his utmost to avoid any kind of commitments. This aimlessness leads him to accept a teaching job on Phraxos, a remote Greek island. While he quickly finds this job as tedious as his previous existence in London, he meets a mysterious older man named Maurice Conchis, and his life is forever altered. Conchis invites Nicholas to his estate for weekends, telling him long tales about his life that may or may not be true. Soon people and events begin to occur that mirror those in Conchis' stories. Nicholas falls in love with a beautiful young woman who is involved in these machinations. Her name may be Julie or Lily; she may be only pretending to return Nicholas' affections. Nicholas finds himself immersed in an increasingly complex web of lies and deception where it becomes impossible to tell truth from lies, reality from fiction. Conchis may be a psychiatrist conducting an elaborate experiment; he may be the director of a new kind of theater; or he may be a sadistic madman out to destroy Nicholas' sanity. The Magus can be understood in several ways. It is a very suspenseful tale with powerful literary, romantic and erotic elements. We can see Nicholas a victim who haphazardly falls into the lair of a lunatic. Or we can see Conchis as a true magus --the term is derived from the Magician of the tarot--who initiates a younger apprentice. However you interpret it, the book will keep you wondering until -and beyond-the very end. John Fowles revised the novel in 1978; I've read both versions and can't say I noticed any great difference. In the forward to the revised edition, Fowles makes some rather uncharitable remarks about his own book and those who admire it. He calls the novel one of \\"adolescence.\\" While it may be true that this book tends to appeal to younger readers, this is probably because in this materialistic and rather mundane culture people tend to \\"outgrow\\" intellectual, moral and aesthetic inquisitiveness once they leave college. It's unfortunate that someone as talented as Fowles would succumb to the notion that this is a good thing. However, I like the book enough that I can forgive this bit of churlishness on the author's part. This is one of my all time favorite books and I highly recommend it.owles revised the novel in 1978; I've read both versions and can't say I noticed any great difference. In the forward to the revised edition, Fowles makes some rather uncharitable remarks about his own book and those who admire it. He calls the novel one of \\"adolescence.\\" While it may be true that this book tends to appeal to younger readers, this is probably because in this materialistic and rather mundane culture people tend to \\"outgrow\\" intellectual, moral and aesthetic inquisitiveness once they leave college. It's unfortunate that someone as talented as Fowles would succumb to the notion that this is a good thing. However, I like the book enough that I can forgive this bit of churlishness on the author's part. This is one of my all time favorite books and I highly recommend it.	2003-07-18
US	52465175	R22YQP1OASK66R	0060011904	452541514	Small Town: A Novel (Block, Lawrence)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Compelling despite some flaws	Lawrence Block is one of those unusual writers who blurs the distinction between popular and literary fiction. On the one hand, the elements of his novels are those of many in the suspense and mystery genres. Yet his characters are so well constructed and the dialogue and narration so compelling that his books cannot be dismissed as genre novels. Small Town is a good but imperfect example of Block's writing. The lives of several contemporary New Yorkers - most notably John Blair Creighton, a struggling writer; Susan Pomerance, an art dealer, Francis Buckram, a former police commissioner and Jerry Pankow, a gay man who cleans apartments and businesses-are connected by a series of brutal murders. It turns out that the site of every murder has one thing in common -it is on the list of places cleaned by Pankow. It is not Pankow, however, who turns out to be a suspect, but Creighton the writer. To describe the plot of Small Town, which is not all that original, does not do justice to the novel. The strength of Block's writing is in the details -the witty but natural dialogue, the flowing pace that compels the reader to keep turning the pages. Small Town takes place in New York City shortly after the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center, and this event provides a crucial backdrop. In some ways the story is secondary to the portrayal of the city itself. The notion that New York is really a small town, where everyone's life intersects with everyone else's, is, of course, a bit of an exaggeration. Although this device of using a chain of events to connect disparate lives is often used in books and movies (e.g. Shortcuts, Magnolia, Thirteen Conversations about One Thing) for dramatic purposes, Small Town sometimes goes a little too far with this. In a city of some eight million, most people necessarily remain strangers. There is also a strong erotic element in this novel; the art dealer Susan Pomerance is something of a nymphomaniac. This will excite some readers and offend others; to me her character just seemed more like a male fantasy than a real person. Still, there is no denying Block's ability to write compelling prose. I finished this book in one weekend (and I am not an especially fast reader) and had trouble putting it down.offend others; to me her character just seemed more like a male fantasy than a real person. Still, there is no denying Block's ability to write compelling prose. I finished this book in one weekend (and I am not an especially fast reader) and had trouble putting it down.	2003-07-18
US	52465175	R159YHHDYNIQIN	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Magnificent epic novel	I read The Lord of the Rings three times in my teens and twenties and decided it was time to try it again to see if it still moved me as much as it did before. I decided to listen to the audiobook version (unabridged, of course; beware of many abridged versions of this and other long books). Narrator Roy Inglis does an excellent job of acting out the myriad of voices in this vast novel. He even sings the many songs, some in the Elvish language. I highly recommend the audiobook, especially to anyone already familiar with the story; hearing it read adds a dimension. If you haven't yet read it, it might be better to read the print version as there are many subplots and characters to keep track of. I think the Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest works of literature in the English language. I'm afraid that it is often dismissed as a mere genre novel,  of interest only to fantasy enthusiasts. In truth, I think it is more akin to an epic novel like War and Peace. Indeed, having read the latter fairly recently I was struck by some similarities. Not in the writing style, but in the scope and the amazing subtleties of character. Both novels, in addition to being centered on great wars, focus on the importance of smaller characters and apparent random chance in the making of history. The most impressive quality of Tolkien's novel is the way he literally created a completely believable world that is at once beautiful and terrible. The descriptions of geography, languages and the various races of folk sometimes seem excessive, but these serve to create an unparalleled authenticity. Tolkien's Middle Earth is more plausible than the \\"real\\" places of most other writers. One could write an entire book on some of the philosophical and spiritual implications of LOR, especially on the topic of duality. Some, including myself, are not comfortable with the apparent Manichean quality of his universe, where everything seems to be good vs. evil. There may even be some justification for claims that the book has certain ethnocentric qualities -e.g. the constant association of black with evil and white with good, and also the tendency of good being associated with the West, and evil with the East. However, the book also contains enough subtleties and shadings to compensate for this; characters such as Gollum and Saruman, who exist on a shaky moral precipice, show that Tolkien did not see life in simplistic terms. Beyond all of this, and most importantly, The Lord of the Rings is simply one of the most entertaining and exciting novels ever written.claims that the book has certain ethnocentric qualities -e.g. the constant association of black with evil and white with good, and also the tendency of good being associated with the West, and evil with the East. However, the book also contains enough subtleties and shadings to compensate for this; characters such as Gollum and Saruman, who exist on a shaky moral precipice, show that Tolkien did not see life in simplistic terms. Beyond all of this, and most importantly, The Lord of the Rings is simply one of the most entertaining and exciting novels ever written.	2003-06-28
US	52465175	R2JX8G5VYDPRMS	0743506626	823571773	Soul Stories	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Some good spiritual advice	In Soul Stories, Gary Zukav (author of The Dancing Wu Li Masters and Seat of the Soul) guides the reader on a spiritual journey towards greater openess and a feeling of connection with the world and one another. The stories range from personal experiences to parables. While all of them teach valuable lessons, I was not always comfortable with the way he tells them. As another reviewer pointed out, Zukav often writes as though his audience were young children. It's one thing to put a message simply and concisely, but to put things too simply can seem condescending to the reader. For example, in the section about how &quot;new&quot; men and women differ from &quot;old,&quot; he goes on at great length describing how men have traditionally been protectors and providers and women have been concerned with raising children and taking care of the home. I think most people in their teens or older are aware of this and are also aware that these roles have been changing. In one story, there is a confrontation between an &quot;old&quot; style man and a &quot;new&quot; style woman (I put these in quotes partly because I'm skeptical of such neat categories); the woman wants to go back to school and pursue a more independent lifestyle, while her husband cannot understand this. This would have seemed more dramatic thirty or forty years ago than today, though there are people who still adhere to traditional roles. Zukav also describes emotionally charged workshops where people share and explore their various feelings and relationships. His style is very much in the spirit of such human potential workshops where the goal is to evolve or expand. I am somewhat skeptical  of this approach, as it can give people a certain conceit about their spirituality compared to supposedly less evolved people (e.g. the comparison between old and new style men and women). I have been mainly criticizing the book, but I also found enough in it to recommend it to anyone interested in...yes, evolving and expanding their consciousness. For example, I liked a story about a man struggling through a barren desert until he finally finds a lush land with abundant food and water. A simple parable, but effective and well told. Gary Zukav writes with quite a bit of optimism about how quickly people are changing. Looking at the world, it often seems as though we aren't changing quickly enough, but I hope he is right. And following the advice in books such as this can only help.expanding their consciousness. For example, I liked a story about a man struggling through a barren desert until he finally finds a lush land with abundant food and water. A simple parable, but effective and well told. Gary Zukav writes with quite a bit of optimism about how quickly people are changing. Looking at the world, it often seems as though we aren't changing quickly enough, but I hope he is right. And following the advice in books such as this can only help.	2003-06-12
US	52465175	R1S1L4ER0H1W1E	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lessons from a dying man	Tuesdays With Morrie is the true story of a man who rekindles a friendship with a college professor during the last days of the older man's life. I found this book to be alternately wise, trite, depressing and inspiring. Mitch Albom describes the strong bond that developed between himself and Morrie Schwartz, his sociology professor. After graduating, like most people, Mitch lost touch with his college life and concentrated on a career. He did not see Morrie for many years. Then, by chance (or fate), he saw a television program featuring his old teacher, now terminally ill with Lou Gehrig's disease. Mitch  contacts Morrie and embarks upon a final \\"course.\\" This turns out to be a series of lessons on life itself and what is and isn't truly important. Mitch Albom tells us that he achieved success as a sportswriter, and this is consistent with the book's style, which is more popular than literary. Although Mitch taped all of the sessions with Morrie, the book is essentially Morrie's philosophy of life as told and interpreted by Mitch (though we do actually hear --in the audiobook version-- Morrie's voice at the end). Another thing that must be said about Tuesdays With Morrie is that, apart from anything else, it is the story of a man dying a painful death from an incurable illness. No matter how insightful and courageous Morrie is in the face of this situation, there is an undeniably depressing element to the story. There are detailed descriptions of the toll the disease takes on Morrie, so sqeamish readers should be forewarned. As for the lessons themselves, it's hard to argue with most of what Morrie says --he is obviously an articulate and warmhearted teacher-- but much of it is also rather obvious. For example, there is much about society being too materialistic and love being more important than money. It is also fairly self evident (if unfortunate) that a person with little time left on Earth will appreciate life more. On the other hand, hearing these truths from a dying man may inspire the reader to appreciate his or her own life more fully. Morrie obviously conveyed a great deal to Mitch; only a small portion of this can be passed along to the reader, who has never met Morrie. One thing the book communicates is the importance of connecting with other people. I suspect the most important part of the lessons learned by Mitch were nonverbal, and required Morrie's actual presence. Unfortunately, some of life's most important lessons come off sounding like cliches when distilled into formulae. Despite this, there is enough wisdom in this book, along with some truly touching moments, to make it worthwhile. Tuesdays With Morrie reminds us that life should never be taken for granted.a dying man may inspire the reader to appreciate his or her own life more fully. Morrie obviously conveyed a great deal to Mitch; only a small portion of this can be passed along to the reader, who has never met Morrie. One thing the book communicates is the importance of connecting with other people. I suspect the most important part of the lessons learned by Mitch were nonverbal, and required Morrie's actual presence. Unfortunately, some of life's most important lessons come off sounding like cliches when distilled into formulae. Despite this, there is enough wisdom in this book, along with some truly touching moments, to make it worthwhile. Tuesdays With Morrie reminds us that life should never be taken for granted.	2003-05-28
US	52465175	R3VHETDSUU3GQ7	0735201897	770999467	Elizabeth I, CEO: Strategic Lessons from the Leader Who Built an Empire	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Still more leadership lessons from history	There has been such a glut of books teaching management and leadership lessons from historical figures and spiritual traditions (Attila, the Tao, Machiavelli, etc.) you'd think the market would be saturated by now. Apparently not, for they keep coming. As far as this kind of book goes, Elizabeth l CEO isn't bad. Of course, the theory's premise is basically contrived. While we can draw analogies between 16th Century politics and 21st Century business, the two environments are fundamentally different. For example, one subject Alan Axelrod often refers to in Elizabeth l (he has the unfortunate habit of repeating the same points many times) is Elizabeth's struggle to enforce religious conformity in England. Elizabeth was a devout Protestant in a nation where Catholics still had a strong influence. How exactly does this translate into a modern business context? The fact is, it doesn't. There is nothing in the business world that even remotely resembles Medieval/Renaissance religious orthodoxy. Only someone who takes management platitudes such as the &quot;vision&quot; of a business could fail to realize this. Visions aside, corporations all have the same goal --profit. They are essentially amoral. Any attempt to indoctrinate employees of a corporation with something akin to religious fervor would be absurd (this isn't to say that such efforts are not made by overzealous CEOs and managers). Despite these serious objections, I still enjoyed Elizabeth l CEO and found some worthwhile lessons in it (though not necessarily in the realm of business). Axelrod does a good job of presenting history in an informative and entertaining manner. He effectively portrays Elizabeth as a powerful and innovative leader who kept her many virtues --intelligence, courage, frugality, pragmatism-- in balance. I suspect, however, that the realms of politics and business are both far too complex to be mastered by any simple set of principles. The audiobook version is narrated by Nelson Runger, who does a fine job of presenting the book.does a fine job of presenting the book.	2003-05-17
US	52465175	RTOAMYKLN1SJN	0449901637	841159393	Vicarious living in 59 easy steps	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Clever and morbidly funny	This book teaches you, in 59 simple steps, how to live vicariously. Granted, this may not be a lesson many people need today; probably just the opposite. Vicarious Living, however, is a hilarious and insightful satire on the couch potato lifestyle. Each page has a drawing with an accompanying brief commentary. The first page, which pretty well sums up the book's philosophy, tells us: &quot;Stay at home most of the time, indoors. This is generally cheaper, easier, safer, and less boring than other pursuits.&quot; The scary thing is, this is so often true! Another gem (and an answer to the Zen, Be Here Now gurus): &quot;Spend most of your time living in the past or future. It's usually much more interesting than whatever is happening in the present.&quot; The sketches of a hapless looking slacker add quite a bit to the text. This little book came out in 1985, when television was still the primary way to tune out reality (maybe it still is). If it were written today, there would obviously have to be some references to the internet. Perhaps the authors, who go by the names (who knows, maybe these are their real names) Jack Seven and Pat Pending, can write a sequel, Virtual Living, for the computer age. You probably shouldn't follow the prescriptions in Vicarious Living too closely. It is, however, a great diversion and even something beyond this. With its simple design and shamelessly absurd advice, it exposes some of society's pretentions in a way similar to the best existentialist literature and postmodern films (e.g. Stranger Than Paradise).	2003-05-10
US	52465175	R2WACMGF88YQV5	1590030095	861024	Reality Works: Let It Happen	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Read it, then reread it	I have to confess to being a bit of a self-help (books, tapes, systems, seminars, etc.) junkie. Over the years, this trait has (hopefully) given me some perspective on the genre and some ability to separate the same tired old cliches from the fresh and original. Reality Works falls soundly in the latter category. At a compact 119 pages, every page is packed with sharp insights expressed in a clear and concise manner. I would especially recommend this book to anyone in the middle of, or on the verge of a significant life transformation (e.g. changing careers, starting/ending a relationship, relocating...). Chandra Alexander is a strong advocate of listening to your inner voice and having the courage to follow it, especially at times when you may be tempted to remain in a comfortable rut rather than venture into uncharted regions. Of course, in an important sense every day is a kind of transformation, so the advice given here is always relevant. The title of one chapter is a good example of the book's wisdom -- &quot;The space between the old way not working and the new way not yet found is where consciousness expands --stay in the gap!&quot; (yes, all this is really the chapter title). In other words, don't be afraid of being in a place where you aren't certain of everything. Reality Works is filled with such gems. I've read it once and am already looking forward to going through it again.	2003-04-21
US	52465175	R7UZ6GJEGX33Y	0892816635	937058212	Shapeshifting: Shamanic Techniques for Global and Personal Transformation	Books	4	135	147	N	N	Shamanic techniques to transform the world	John Perkins has studied with shamans from around the world, leads workshops on shapeshifting and shamanism and has written several books. His approach is to use ancient shapeshifting techniques as a tool for societal as well as personal transformation....offer many practical exercises for learning shapeshifting techniques. Of course, this is a difficult and lifelong process and not something you can learn from simply reading a book about it. Traditional shamans are raised with a magical and holistic worldview that is very different from our modern technological, materialistic one. Shapeshifting is, however, an excellent introduction to this path and may motivate you to delve deeper into the subject. Shapeshifting is usually thought of in terms of transforming the physical body; shamans can supposedly (I believe it, but I realize many don't) literally shapeshift into plants, animals or spheres of pure energy (the latter is described in the book). As fascinating as this prospect is, the possibility that social institutions can shapeshift may be even more important. It has become almost a platitude to say that our present political and economic system is seriously damaging the environment. As tired as we may be of hearing this, and as much as we'd like to believe that it's all hyperbole, it seems hard to deny at this point. In addition to teaching shamanic techniques, John Perkins' Dream Change Coaltion works to preserve the rainforests and influence the thinking of large corporations. Projects of this kind are crucial today.	2003-03-16
US	52465175	RT3OCM4W95ZAN	0385417993	758413096	Living Without a Goal	Books	3	34	35	N	N	goals vs. Goals	First of all, the editorial reviews for this book are mistaken on two points; the author's name is James, not Jay Ogilvy and this is NOT a business book. The principles could be applied to a business environment but the book hardly deals directly with this at all. James Ogilvy deserves credit for attempting to unravel a very complex and paradoxical (e.g. how can you have the goal of not having a goal?) issue. How can we, in a goal-oriented society, live without being driven and obsessed by an endless parade of grand goals? The simple answer, and one that is given in many other books, is to say that we should relax and &quot;let go&quot; of our desires in a Zen or Taoist manner. Ogilvy does advocate this, but he also attempts to deal with the question in a more thorough and philosophical manner. Unfortunately, his arguments sometimes seem like streams of consciousness that don't always accomplish their...goals. Still, the discussion is always interesting. Some of Ogilvy's best lines seem almost like incidental, throwaway phrases that don't always fit into the larger argument. I suppose that's consistent with his message. He does make a few quite valuable and coherent points. He differentiates &quot;small g&quot; goals and &quot;large G&quot; Goals. It is the latter he would have us relinquish. If we live entirely without goals, our lives will sink into nihilism. If we pursue large Goals, however, we will always be seeking gratifications in the future that will almost always disappoint us even if we do achieve them. Ogilvy illustrates his case by creating two fictional characters, Spike and Lila. Spike is a young slacker type who illustrates the pitfalls of goallessness; Lila is a Goal-driven baby-boomer who has been let down by one Goal after another. Spike and Lila could have been fleshed out more; they only appear as actual characters in one chapter, though Ogilvy refers to them elsewhere. Another quibble I had is that Ogilvy is prone to making broad generalizations. Like many authors and social scientists, he sums up entire decades with one or two words (e.g. the 70s were the &quot;me&quot; decade, the 80s were materialistic). In a book that tries to dig deeply in other ways, this kind of reductionism is a little annoying. I would also argue with some of his assumptions concerning language and postmodernism, but these are interesting to contemplate whether you agree with him or not. Plato, Freud and Nietzsche (along with Howard Hughes) are all invoked as representing different positions on the Goal quagmire. For good reasons, Ogilvy favors Nietzsche as the wisest on these issues. Overall, Living Without A Goal tackles some very important issues that are relevant to our personal lives as well as society.s. Like many authors and social scientists, he sums up entire decades with one or two words (e.g. the 70s were the &quot;me&quot; decade, the 80s were materialistic). In a book that tries to dig deeply in other ways, this kind of reductionism is a little annoying. I would also argue with some of his assumptions concerning language and postmodernism, but these are interesting to contemplate whether you agree with him or not. Plato, Freud and Nietzsche (along with Howard Hughes) are all invoked as representing different positions on the Goal quagmire. For good reasons, Ogilvy favors Nietzsche as the wisest on these issues. Overall, Living Without A Goal tackles some very important issues that are relevant to our personal lives as well as society.	2003-01-15
US	52465175	R1THZWTHZ12L1F	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Romanticism meets postmodernism	Possession is a challenging, multilayered novel that takes patience and concentration but is well worth the effort. On the cover it is labelled \\"a romance.\\" This is a possibly  ironic simplification of all this epic novel encompasses. It is actually about the confrontation of two very different worlds: the romanticism of 19th Century poets and the postmodern detachment of late 20th Century scholars. On the other hand, A.S. Byatt also suggests that these two worlds may not be so far apart or irreconcilable as it first appears. Roland Mitchell is a graduate student doing research on a famous poet named Randolph Ash. Roland is an indecisive, introverted scholar whose future is uncertain. He is unsatisfied with his career; his own inertia keeps him in an apparently futile relationship; he feels his own identity is vague and somehow secondary to the poet he is studying. His life is suddenly infused with purpose when he finds an unfinished letter written by Ash to an unknown woman. He soon learns that this letter was intended for Christabel La Motte, a reclusive poet who had not previously been associated with Ash. Roland teams up with another scholar, Maud Bailey, who is an expert on La Motte (and a distant relation as well). They come upon a whole collection of letters between La Motte and Ash and find themselves in the middle of a fierce battle with fellow scholars who also want possession of these letters. The parallel between the two 19th Century poets and the two 20th Century scholars is the main theme, but it is really the letters, which include many poems and tales of faeries and magical worlds that are the heart of the novel. Modern notions of scholarship, literary criticism, feminism and sexuality are all thoroughly explored. Possession asks whether it is either moral or useful to \\"deconstruct\\" literary works (and their authors' lives). Do the dead have a right to privacy? Does modern scholarship, as it dissects and analyzes, destroy rather than illuminate (an undoubtedly symbolic subplot has Ash dissecting insects and other living things)? I found these questions more interesting than the interaction between the two living scholars. Here we have the familiar (especially in English literature) situation of two people attracted to each other who find it almost impossible to reach beyond their own self-imposed solitude. Their inhibitions, reinforced by the stifling atmosphere of academia, is a significant part of the story, but it was sometimes a little exasperating all the same. The portrayal of intellectuals as envious and conniving competitors at times borders on parody. Byatt lampoons two American scholars with particular zeal. The modern characters' main function is to connect the many threads of this vast novel. What is perhaps most interesting is the way the process of literary deconstruction is turned in on itself. After observing 19th Century romantics through the lens of a contemporary mindset, these modern tools (and those who wield them) are themselves ruthlessly scrutinized. I listened to the audiobook, read flawlessly by Virginia Leishman and plan to read the print version soon to absorb more of the novel's many subtleties.ndoubtedly symbolic subplot has Ash dissecting insects and other living things)? I found these questions more interesting than the interaction between the two living scholars. Here we have the familiar (especially in English literature) situation of two people attracted to each other who find it almost impossible to reach beyond their own self-imposed solitude. Their inhibitions, reinforced by the stifling atmosphere of academia, is a significant part of the story, but it was sometimes a little exasperating all the same. The portrayal of intellectuals as envious and conniving competitors at times borders on parody. Byatt lampoons two American scholars with particular zeal. The modern characters' main function is to connect the many threads of this vast novel. What is perhaps most interesting is the way the process of literary deconstruction is turned in on itself. After observing 19th Century romantics through the lens of a contemporary mindset, these modern tools (and those who wield them) are themselves ruthlessly scrutinized. I listened to the audiobook, read flawlessly by Virginia Leishman and plan to read the print version soon to absorb more of the novel's many subtleties.	2003-01-06
US	52465175	R2HJV50IZFW7LC	0890877394	319179344	Serving Fire: Food for Thought, Body, and Soul	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Rhythms and Rituals of the Hearth	The title of this review appears on the book's cover; I couldn't think of a better one. While the themes Anne Scott covers --nutrition, goddesses, ancient practices such as Chinese medicine and the spiritual meaning of the seasons-- have become quite popular recently, this book has a unique voice. It is relatively short and compact and each page is filled with a quietly intense wisdom. The unifying theme is the hearth; that too often overlooked (in modern times) place of physical or spiritual fire that provides us with nourishment. Anne Scott explores this from many traditions. She focuses on several fire goddesses -- Hestia (Greek), Pele (Hawaiian), Brighde (Irish) and Gabija (Lithuanian), relates conversations with various teachers and healers and describes how the seasons correspond to the elements of Chinese medicine. Throughout the book are personal anecdotes that relate to the subject; indeed, the book seems to come primarily from her experience and life lessons. There is also some good advice on eating appropriately for the seasons, talking to children about food and eating more consciously. Like many spiritually-focused books, this one encourages us to slow down, pay more attention to our surroundings and appreciate the abundance of nature. This one accomplishes something  rare; it is itself an expression of the kind of simplicity and awareness it advocates.	2002-12-23
US	52465175	RJOKFLV4PD7TL	1569372829	854272282	Chuang Tsu: Inner Chapters	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A wise, funny and irreverent philosopher	Next to Lao Tsu, who wrote the Tao Teh Ching (at least its attributed to him), Chuang Tsu is probably the best known Taoist. This audiobook is based on the translation of his writings by Gia-Fu Feng and Jane English. The narrator, Chungliang Al Huang, is a well known tai chi teacher and contemporary writer on Taoism. Born in China, he speaks with an accent, but his English is easily understood. He prefaces each passage with some of the original Chinese, which gives the listener a certain flavor of the language. At the end of the book, he explains some of the difficulties in translation. Chinese characters, for example, are not simply letters or words but also images, so it's not a simple matter to translate them into other languages. Chuang Tsu was an irreverent and humorous character. He teaches with stories and anecdotes, similar to some Zen stories (Zen was greatly influenced by Taoism). Some of the meanings are quite obscure; it's best to simply read (or listen) and not try to understand everything logically. As Chuang Tsu says, \\"When there is questioning, there is something beyond the question. Why is this? The sage keeps his wisdom to himself while ordinary men flaunt their knowledge in loud discussion. So I say, `Those who dispute do not see.'\\" For those who are interested in learning more about Chuang Tsu, I'd recommend getting both the book and this abridged audiotape.	2002-12-20
US	52465175	R3RAK9LXTKBQH4	0553277839	46548114	Faerie Tale	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Suspenseful contemporary fantasy	Faerie Tale is a fast-paced, compelling story about a family who encounters the ancient mythic race known as faeries in modern upstate New York. It begins, as do many tales of the supernatural, when the family buys an old house in the country. The Hastings are an affluent family; Phil is a successful writer, his wife Gloria a former actress. They have a pair of twins, Sean and Patrick, who love to play baseball and hike in the woods. Phil's daughter Gabbie (from a previous marriage) is an heiress from a wealthy family on her mother's side. Unusual things begin to occur in and around the house. The twins sense a dark, evil presence beneath the aptly named Troll Bridge. Gabbie is almost raped my a mysterious man who then vanishes into the woods. The Hastings learn that the house was previously owned by someone with ties to a secret society that dabbled in the occult. What I like best about the novel are the vivid descriptions of the faeire folk and their mysterious behavior. Feist packs the story with a lot of genuine folklore. By the end, some of this gets mixed up in original and probably not historically accurate ways, but that's not a problem with a fantasy. I found the mundane aspects of the book less compelling than the supernatural. The family interaction sometimes seems a little too stereotypical. Some of the plot devices, such as Gabbie meeting the love of her life practically the day the family moves in, seemed a bit contrived to me. Another thing that I found annoying, which probably won't bother many readers, is the way the Hastings seem gratuitously rich. It seems that some books and movies give characters lots of money simply because the public enjoys being exposed to wealth. To me, this actually lessens the story to some extent, as it makes the characters less vulnerable; they could always buy another house and move if things get too scary. I found the excursions into Otherworlds and the vivid descriptions of the faerie folk to be original and exciting. Hastings also portrays the faerie world as very sexual, something not often focused on in this type of tale, and which adds another dimension. There is much here to recommend for fans of fantasy, Celtic mythology and faeries.Hastings also portrays the faerie world as very sexual, something not often focused on in this type of tale, and which adds another dimension. There is much here to recommend for fans of fantasy, Celtic mythology and faeries.	2002-12-12
US	52465175	R1IBTN19UEUQFX	157511027X	360422252	Out of Body: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Original suspense thriller	Out Of Body is an offbeat suspense novel with a metaphysical twist. The protaganist (or possibly the antihero) is Denton, a man who frequently has blackouts in which he leaves his body. As the story begins, Denton (who narrates the tale) has just been released from prison for a crime he believes he never committed. Because of his unusual state of mind, the reader does not completely trust Denton's claim of innocence. After all, if he doesn't always know where he is, he may have done anything. Denton is surrounded by people who are, if not hostile towards him, at least suspicious. He stays with his brother Elliot and his wife Mimi, whose marital difficulties are even further strained by Denton's arrival. Denton gets a job and becomes romantically involved with the bosses' daughter. When it turns out his new love interest has a checkered past, and a violently jealous fiancee, things quickly turn dangerous for the recently parolled Denton. To add to the complexity, one of Denton's cell mates has escaped and is looking for help. Denton seems destined to find trouble, and neither we nor he are surprised when he is suspected of another violent crime. One of the novel's strongest features is the way it captures Denton's frightening states of dissociation. We are swept along, forced to share his condition, as he is propelled out of one scene into another without any memory of the dots connecting. Author Thomas Baum inserts a powerful psychological theme here as well --at an early age, Denton may have witnessed his own father's suicide. Suspense, psychology and the supernatural are combined in an original way to make this a compellingly unique novel.	2002-12-05
US	52465175	R26MKS50B6QEQM	0865475369	495610671	Trickster Makes This World: Mischief, Myth, and Art	Books	4	60	62	N	N	The Trickster's crucial role	The Trickster is a mythological or archetypal character found in stories throughout the world. The best known in Western myth are Hermes and Loki. In this fascinating study, Lewis Hyde gives equal time to the Native American Coyote, the Chinese Monkey King and India's Krishna. At first glance, these characters are merely pranksters; humorous, sometimes annoying and occasionally dangerous ne'er do wells who disrupt the normal flow of things. As the title of this book suggests, Hyde believes tricksters are much more than this. He makes a convincing case that tricksters are essential in both preserving and transforming societies. Without their disruptions, cultural stagnation would result. He points out that tricksters can either help to maintain the status quo or bring about radical transformation. An example of the former case is illustrated by carnivals such as Mardi Gras, where social customs are predictably and temporarily ignored or reversed. This allows people to vent their frustrations and unleash their inhibitions before returning to normal life. Hyde mentions the abolishionist Frederick Douglas as an example of the more radical sort of trickster who brings about permanent change. Within the institution of slavery, slaves were allowed one week of freedom and revelry. Douglas was not satisfied with this; he wanted to completely overhaul the status quo and indeed helped to accomplish this. Trickster Makes this World describes the antics of both actual (e.g. Douglas, the artist Marcel Duchamp) and mythic (e.g. Hermes, Coyote, Krishna) tricksters. This, of course, suggests a worldview similar to that of Joseph Campbell and others, who see the mythic as the foundation of real life. This book isn't easy reading; Hyde has a trickster-like style of zig-zagging his way all over a very expansive intellectual terrain. It doesn't so much make a case or present an argument as suggest a way of seeing the world. At the center of this worldview is not the all-powerful Zeus, but the slippery messenger/thief/trader Hermes (or one of his counterparts). Getting back to the provocative title, Trickster does not make the world in the conventional way (as the God of the Bible, for example). Rather, he (tricksters are usually male, an issue Hyde devotes a chapter to exploring) remakes and readjusts the world  in which he finds himself. This is arguably a task as important as creation itself, or an essential part of creation.ut the slippery messenger/thief/trader Hermes (or one of his counterparts). Getting back to the provocative title, Trickster does not make the world in the conventional way (as the God of the Bible, for example). Rather, he (tricksters are usually male, an issue Hyde devotes a chapter to exploring) remakes and readjusts the world  in which he finds himself. This is arguably a task as important as creation itself, or an essential part of creation.	2002-11-30
US	52465175	RWIFSXACWPGRD	0792799992	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Information is not knowledge	One of the characters in this novels says \\"information is not knowledge.\\" This is probably the best line in the book. You can really look at Killing Time in two ways; as a thoughtful essay on the dangers of the information age, or as a mostly unsatisfying action/sci-fi novel. Caleb Carr would have done better expounding on his ideas about history, culture and the internet in a nonfiction book rather than try to stuff them all into this short, poorly plotted novel. Set about fifty years in the future, Killing Time is mainly about an extremely timely and important issue --the ease with which large numbers of people can be deceived by information age technology. In the future as foreseen by Carr, plagues, wars and environmental crisis have ravaged the world even as technology continues to flourish. A group of the world's most brilliant scientists establish their own community-without-borders and play a series of high tech pranks on the world (the basic plot is vaguely reminscent of a much better novel, Atlas Shrugged). When a psychiatrist named Gideon Wolfe makes some disconcerting discoveries about a vast cover-up regarding a presidential assasination, he is drawn into the group's plans. Naturally, one of them is a beautiful but deadly woman named Larissa who Wolfe falls in love with. The story follows the group's misadventures as they embark upon a morally ambiguous campaign against the universally corrupt governments of the world. The main problem with the book, alas, is the writing. I haven't read any of Carr's other novels, but from his reputation I expected more than this; it reads like a low budget movie script. The reader is not adequately introduced to the world of the future; the frenetic action starts too quickly and continues for most of the book. This does not help in what is primarily meant to be a philosophical inquiry into some fundamental questions about society. Another thing that gets in the way is Carr's gratuitous sermonizing on a variety of topics (this reminds me a little of Dean Koonz, though he is better at plotting his novels). There are constant snide remarks about the tastelessness of modern life and the shortcomings of various cultures, nations and religions and so forth. Even if you agree with him, this does not add anything to the novel. As for the message, it is, oddly enough, simultaneously heavy-handed and ambiguous. Carr is seemingly a harsh critic of technology, the internet and the so-called information age. Yet, when it comes down to it, he also believes that science and technology may hold the solution to our problems. The ending certainly suggests this. Ambiguity is not necessarily a bad thing; in fact, it can be a sign that someone has thought out a position thoroughly. Such a nuanced position, however, does not go well with a simplistic, action-dominated plot. Overall, I'd like to see a better book written on the same subject.(this reminds me a little of Dean Koonz, though he is better at plotting his novels). There are constant snide remarks about the tastelessness of modern life and the shortcomings of various cultures, nations and religions and so forth. Even if you agree with him, this does not add anything to the novel. As for the message, it is, oddly enough, simultaneously heavy-handed and ambiguous. Carr is seemingly a harsh critic of technology, the internet and the so-called information age. Yet, when it comes down to it, he also believes that science and technology may hold the solution to our problems. The ending certainly suggests this. Ambiguity is not necessarily a bad thing; in fact, it can be a sign that someone has thought out a position thoroughly. Such a nuanced position, however, does not go well with a simplistic, action-dominated plot. Overall, I'd like to see a better book written on the same subject.	2002-10-31
US	52465175	R1X8S5M6S88GQE	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thoroughly engaging historical novel	Music &amp; Silence is an epic historical novel that manages to be both complex and accessible. Set in 17th Century Denmark, it focuses on the surprising influence of music on King Christian and the people who surround him. Peter Claire, a lutenist of striking appearance, arrives in Denmark to take his place with the royal orchestra. He has second thoughts about his fate when he learns that the musicians must play in a damp cellar in order that the king and his guests may hear the music ascend, as if by magic, through specially designed ducts. This reveals the extent to which all who live in such times must submit to the whims of royalty, even when the sovereign is a basically just man. Christian immediately sees Peter as a kind of angel, both because of his musical talent and his resemblance to a boyhood friend of the king's. Christian has many troubles --he is plagued by chronic stomach pains; his scheming wife, Kirsten, is having an affair that everyone knows about; finally, the royal treasury is nearly bankrupt and he is desperately seeking ways to raise money. Peter, meanwhile, falls in love at first sight with Emelia, Kirsten's favorite maid, and is torn between his feelings and his duty to the king. Kirsten is in many ways the book's most interesting character. Conniving and vindictive, she has just enough of a conscience to feel ashamed at her many transgressions. She also has a speculative (if morbid) mind and voices many of the novel's most perceptive passages. Rose Tremain has the ability to create an utterly convincing sense of time and place without burdening the reader with excessive or irrelevant historical factoids. Both the characters and plot are complex and well-rounded. As in real life, contrivance is balanced with the unexpected and random. In the audio version that I listened to, the reader, Jenny Agutter, does a fine job of narrating.	2002-10-26
US	52465175	RZOL1GFQ5ORRP	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Sharp, insightful and funny	This is a very witty, amusing and irreverent look at the supposedly nonexistant American class system. It's clear that Paul Fussell does not have a very high regard for any class, with the exception of the one he calls Class X --those people who don't fit stereotypes. Fussell identifies nine major classes, from top out-of-sight all the way down to bottom out-of sight, while focusing mainly on those in between. No detail escapes Fussell's critical eye. Proles, for example, tend to be overweight, wear baseball caps (often backwards) and ornament their cars with things like dice hanging from the front mirror; the middle class speak in pretentious euphemisms (\\"cocktails\\" instead of drinks, \\"position\\" for job), are preoccupied with lawns and like to join clubs. The only thing that detracts from this book, first published in 1983, is that some of the material is dated. For example, the prole habit of dressing up for travel is almost obsolete in today's almost universally casual world. In fact, many of the bohemian traits he ascribes to Class X (such as wearing clothes from LL Bean) have, over the last two decades, been appropriated by other, more conventional classes. It is interesting to note that the popular term Generation X (coined by Douglas Coupland in the novel by the same name) was inspired by Fussell's book, although the meaning was changed. There are still many valid insights here, and the book is a genuine pleasure to read. As a follow-up, readers may enjoy another of Fussell's books, even more elitist and misanthropic than Class, called Bad.	2002-09-29
US	52465175	R188KDULZDOKVB	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Marginal suspense thriller	This was my first James Patterson book, so I'll have to accept the general consensus that many of his earlier novels are better than this one. The main problem with Violets are Blue (aside from a title that has nothing to do with the book, at least that I can tell) is that it has two distinct storylines that do not significantly intersect or complement one another. Detective Alex Cross is being stalked by a brilliant psychopath (aren't they all?) known as the Mastermind. This puts added strain on his already difficult family situation. Cross is a single father attempting to raise three children. The conflict between job and family life portrayed in Violets are Blue is somewhat hackneyed. Meanwhile, a series of brutal murders apparently committed by vampires (and possibly a pet tiger) sends Cross all over the country. The vampire part of the plot was the most interesting. It explores the goth/vampire subculture, and postulates what might happen if some of these people took their fascination with the dark side of things to an extreme. As I mentioned, the two threads remain separate until the very end of the book. To my mind, one of them resolves itself too quickly and the other too predictably; I guessed the identity of one of the villains fairly early. All in all, some good elements, but not combined in the best fashion.	2002-09-28
US	52465175	R917F2RCP7RFP	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As timely as ever	... we do in fact live in a rather Orwellian world. In Orwell's dystopia, the state is all powerful; every aspect of life is controlled, down to --and especially-- the language itself. This is probably the book's greatest contribution to social theory --the idea that words and definitions have such a great influence on our thoughts. If we can't think of the word for something, we can't have a coherent thought about it. Orwell may not have invented these ideas, but he certainly dramatized them in an unprecedented manner. Another significant aspect of the novel is the perpetual warfare. The state is constantly at war, but allies and enemies constantly shift. The population is kept under complete surveillance by televisions that watch the viewer; and this was written years before internet cameras! The everyman hero, Winston Smith, gradually gets involved in a resistance movement that may or may not really exist. The paranoia of this scenario is total --no one can be trusted. In my opinion, many people have missed the point of this novel. ...I can't be sure of Orwell's purpose in writing the book, but to me it's not meant to be a realistic portrayal of any actual or even possible dictatorship. It's more of a theoretical model of a perfectly evil state --the antithesis, for example, of Plato's supposedly perfect society. ... To see the relevance of 1984, we have to focus on the techniques and mindset used by the state in that novel. Armies that are called peacekeeping forces; wars that are never declared against always changing enemies; a language of PC euphemisms and bureaucratic jargon -- these are facts of modern life. The fact that it hasn't gone to the extreme of 1984 and probably (and hopefully) never will does not in any way detract from Orwell's brilliant insights.	2002-09-28
US	52465175	R1432EPY3LIHMH	0743405935	310710828	Bad Connection	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fast-paced suspense, intriguing premise	Bad Connection is a novel with a fascinating premise --a telephone worker listens in on the corrupt dealings of financial bigwigs in Manhattan and attempts to use the information to his own advantage. Sean Macklin is the closest thing to a hero in this basically amoral tale. He works underground in midtown Manhattan, where he repairs the phone lines for some of the world's most powerful financiers. When he overhears a conversation about an upcoming merger, he sees no harm in using that information to do some daytrading of his own. Macklin's inspiration to make extra money is not greed, but his wife, who is seriously brain damaged after a car accident. The plot thickens when Macklin continues to listen and learns of a plot that involves not merely stock manipulation but the killing of native people in Central America. Sean then turns this information over to his brother Ray, a corrupt cop. From here, we have a complex but well-developed story, as Sean, Ray, the callous CEO of a pharmaceutical company and his ex-CIA henchman all collide over this volatile bit of information. I really enjoyed most of this book, but found the last quarter of it or so a little over-the-top in its action and violence. Although Bad Connection deals with moral issues, it doesn't exactly have a moral, being ultimately too cynical for that. Michael Ledwidge has an exceptional talent for writing clear, taut and elegantly descriptive prose. Although this is a good book, I think he is capable of even better ones.	2002-09-28
US	52465175	R3SI0Y167YPT56	0754005461	279845342	Emotionally Weird	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Extremely Offbeat, Funny and, yes, Weird	I had never read anything by Kate Atkinson before this and was quite pleasantly surprised. What I hastily concluded from the jacket description was that this was going to be a play-like dialogue between a mother and daughter. This is, instead, a multilayered, multigenre piece of experimental fiction that is fun to read, thought-provoking and original. As much as anything else, Emotionally Weird is about writing and the creative process. Effie, the young woman who is the narrator, tells stories which may or may not be true to Nora, an older woman who may or may not be her mother. The two live on a secluded island off Scotland. The stories Effie tells are mainly whimsical character studies of bohemian college life in the 1970s. By contrast, the scenes that take place on the island beteen Effie and Nora are told in a somberly poetic, almost gothic (and very Celtic) style. To further complicate things, Effie is also herself writing a detective novel about yet another set of characters. If this sounds confusing, at times it is. Yet, you don't have to completely understand what's going on to enjoy this novel. After all, there is very little plot to worry about following. There are, appropriately enough, several references to Alice in Wonderland, though, compared to Emotionally Weird, Lewis Carroll's tale is almost conventional and straightforward. James Joyce is also mentioned, but despite her radical style, Atkinson is much, much easier to read. There is a very deliberate pointlessness to the book. When Effie is at college, for example, there are scenes that are little more than parades of absurd characters. Professors are portrayed as gibberish-speaking buffoons; some of my favorite scenes took place in the classroom, where the professors uttter meaningless jargon to apathetic students. Nora often interrupts the tales to deliver her quite valid criticisms, such as the fact that Effie creates too many characters. Some of the scenes could be considered more like writing exercises than actual scenes that propel a story. Some readers will find this novel tedious; it does take a suspension of your usual expectations regarding fiction. I enjoyed the contrasting styles and the existentialism of the characters that is alternately tragic and comical. Finally, I found it's labyrinthian stories within stories to be a fascinating exploration of creativity and of identity.xercises than actual scenes that propel a story. Some readers will find this novel tedious; it does take a suspension of your usual expectations regarding fiction. I enjoyed the contrasting styles and the existentialism of the characters that is alternately tragic and comical. Finally, I found it's labyrinthian stories within stories to be a fascinating exploration of creativity and of identity.	2002-09-20
US	52465175	R29917BAY53A0D	014118213X	966622039	Howards End (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	158	162	N	N	One of the Best!	I have read Howard's End two or three times and listened to it once on tape and it remains one of my favorite novels. Many people were introduced to it by the film, which, good though it was, does not begin to capture the subtle wisdom Forster put into this book. Howard's End can be seen as a quaint period piece about British culture in the early Twentieth Century. On another level, however, it's a brilliant exploration of the human soul. In the Schlegels and the Wilcoxes, Forster has created the perfect embodiment of the eternal conflict between reason and passion. These two families, destined to be united by the marriage of Margaret Schlegel to Henry Wilcox, represent two seemingly irreconcilable aspects of humanity. The Schlegels are artistic, intellectual and impractical; the Wilcoxes materialistic and unapologetically bourgeois. Margaret and Henry have their differences, but it is their relatives who display the more extreme family traits. Margaret's sister Helen is a classic bohemian; Henry's son Charles is a humorless and intolerant banker. As the novel unfolds, the two families are forced to confront each other and decide whether to ultimately part company or compromise. What is most impressive to me about the novel is the naturalness and grace with which the story unfolds. When an author uses characters to embody universal qualities, it is quite a challenge to make the people and story real and not merely symbols. Howard's End succeeds brilliantly as both a thoroughly engaging novel and a rather profound metaphysical inquiry.	2002-09-15
US	52465175	RTK4EFQL6IX00	0688163521	262801531	The Importance Of Living	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Offers a complete philosophy of life	This is a true modern classic (to those who consider 1937 modern anyway). Lin Yutang offers a meandering, informal look at life, happiness, the differences between Eastern and Western cultures, the enjoyment of food and many other things. What I like best about this book is not what it argues for or advocates (Yutang is about as far from an academic philosopher as you can get) but the joy and wisdom he injects into every paragraph. He is often considered a Chinese thinker, but this is only partially true. His very broad studies and experiences make him a true cosmopolitan, the sort it is hard to find today. The Importance of Living is really a call to appreciate the earthly pleasures of life and not take so seriously the overrated follies of modern civilization. You don't have to completely agree with his views to appreciate his style. The ideal life for Lin Yutang is that of a lazy, wandering Taoist scholar. Not a humorless ascetic, but someone who approaches life with a sense of humor and an ability to enjoy the small pleasures. Yutang identifies himself as a hedonist (later in life he became Christian, but that's another story). There are many self help and new age books out today that tell you how to live a simpler, more spiritual life. This book tells you the same thing in a way that is far wittier and less sanctimonious.	2002-09-09
US	52465175	R3O314JO3TZPYE	1585672416	978275026	The Mabinogion Tetralogy	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Beautifully rendered Celtic myths	The Mabinogion is an ancient collection of Welsh mythology. There have been quite a few modern translations, especially with the current Celtic revival. In my opinion, however, this four volume set by Evangaline Walton is by far the best. Many myths and fairy tales, while still enjoyable to read, are written in a less than scintillating style. Events and characters are duly described in a kind of methodical history book manner. Walton, on the other hand, brings the characters and stories to life in a truly literary fashion. Thus, these volumes can be enjoyed not only by folklorists and Celtophiles, but also by anyone who loves good fantasy novels --or good novels in general. The Welsh language has long been a source for many fantasy writers, including Tolkien. Though I can't properly pronounce most of the words and names in the Mabinogion, just reading them sends the imagination on an astral journey. Arawn, King of Annwn (the underworld); Rhiannon, Gwydion, Arianrhod...It would be too confusing to go into the details of the stories, but they are almost all concerned with magical battles (of wits as often as with swords) between various mortals and gods. Many of the tales of the Mabinogion are related, but they are not continuous. You could read any one of the four volumes by itself, which may be forced upon some readers if they rely on finding them in used bookstores. Fortunately, there are quite a few editions out there, including some newer ones, so you should be able to buy them as a set.	2002-09-08
US	52465175	R1PWZWNDZV27W1	1577311760	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A difficult spiritual path	The message of this book is quite simple but extremely difficult to practice. Unlike most books I review, this one can be easily summarized in a few sentences. Live in the moment --the past and future are illusory. All pain and dysfunction arise from the ego's insistence on avoiding the present moment. Of course, this is the basic teaching of all schools of Eastern mysticism, Zen in particular. Eckhart Tolle also quotes Jesus quite often, giving his words a different and less literal meaning. In it's tone and message, the book The Power of Now most reminds me of is A Course In Miracles. It may be my ego saying this, but I have to admit that I have some problems with both of these books. It is almost impossible to argue with the message of The Power of Now. Any healthy spiritual or psychological system encourages such a practice. It is the tone and attitude with which this message is delivered that makes me a little uncomfortable. It seems to me that there's a kind of dogmatism lurking beneath the surface here. Everything is presented in dualistic terms; we are either enlightened beings living in the Now OR we are lost souls living in the delusions of the ego. I tend to believe things are more on a continuum. There's a Buddhist saying I like, \\"samsara is nirvana.\\" In other words, the idea that the world of illusion (samsara) is separate from nirvana (enlightenment) is itself a kind of illusion. I still recommend The Power of Now. Whatever your spiritual path --or even if you're not on one-- hearing these words can remind you of some valuable things.	2002-09-08
US	52465175	R1WQND3VQX959Q	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poignant romantic novel	Note: this review refers to the audiobook, read by the author. Like many people, I was surprised to even see Steve Martin's name under the heading of a novel. Shopgirl, however, is a genuinely good book that deserves to be read quite apart from the celebrity of its author. This is a very short novel, though just the right length to tell its story. Martin has a precise eye and ear for nuances of character and since this is a character rather than plot-driven story, we get to know these characters quite intimately. The heroine is an introverted Los Angeles (by way of Vermont) young woman named Mirabelle. Her job behind the counter at the anachronistic glove department of Neiman Marcus perfectly reflects the low profile she keeps in her life. She is quite lonely and suffers from serious episodes of depression, but has the pluck to carry on, albeit with the help of anti-depressants. When a wealthy and much older man shows an interest in her, she is quickly swept away. Martin does an excellent job of portraying the uncertainty and miscommunication that often accompanies male-female relationships. The book is not perfect. At times, Martin's cerebral narration comes close to defying the old &quot;show don't tell&quot; rule of fiction. Yet his commentary is intelligent enough that it doesn't detract from the story. His attempts to interject humor at times seems forced. One character, a narcissistic girl named Lisa, who embodies the often parodied shallowness of West LA, is little more than a caricature. Overall, though, Shopgirl is a fine romantic story with some genuine insights into the world of relationships. Steve Martin also does a fine job of reading his book on this audio version.	2002-09-07
US	52465175	R34W0QM0FME0GK	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Right On Target	This book came out in 1995, but it has never been more relevant than today. In describing the world situation as a battle (or, more accurately, dialectic) between \\"Jihad\\" and \\"McWorld,\\" Benjamin Barber has not merely invented a catchy metaphor; this is indeed the direction much of the world is moving. Jihad as used here is not, of course, merely the Islamic holy war, though it certainly includes this. It is any reactionary, tribal movement that sees modernization and the Western world in particular as evil. McWorld is the opposing movement --the ever-expanding globalization that brings McDonald's, Walmart and American cinema to every corner of the globe. Barber's most important insight is that both of these forces, violently opposed to each other as they are, are incompatible with any meaningful concept of democracy. Jihad, of course, whatever form it takes, sees freedom and democracy as inseparable from corruption, immorality and greed. McWorld, on the other hand, embodies the most amoral aspects of Western civilization, sometimes giving credence to the fears of Jihad warriors. The multinational corporations who are colonizing the world have little regard for traditional cultures and native environments. The problem with Jihad is that, instead of offering a constructive criticism of McWorld, it retreats into a violent reactionary mode and blindly condemns everything modern. And when the devotees of Jihad act out in a truly violent manner, this in turn makes the superficially benign forces of corporate capitalism seem civilized by comparison. Barber also points out that the two often exist side-by-side in the same region --sometimes in the same individuals, strange as this seems. Throughout the book, Barber describes the two forces as a dialectic. As he says,<br /><br /> \\"...Jihad stands not so much in stark opposition as in subtle counterpoint to McWorld and is itself a dialectical response to modernity whose features both reflect and reinforce the modern world's virtues and vices --Jihad via McWorld rather than Jihad vs. McWorld.\\"<br /> Barber also reveals that Jihad is very much active in modern Western democracies. In America, for example, armed militias and groups such as Aryan Nations are attempts to overthrow the moral corruption of modern capitalism. Less extreme but in the same vein are fundamentalist Christians who believe Judgment Day is imminent, and perhaps welcome it. Many will recall the reaction of Pat Robertson and other fundamentalists after the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attack --it was, they said, God punishing an immoral, Godless society. Overall, Jihad vs. McWorld is an important book because it puts the chaotic world situation into meaningful perspective. His analysis shows the dangers of oversimplifying things and invites us to look at the complexities of this rather tragic modern dialectic. As Barber tells us, if either Jihad or McWorld is allowed to triumph, the world of the future will not be very free, sane or pleasant.ues and vices --Jihad via McWorld rather than Jihad vs. McWorld.\\" <br /> Barber also reveals that Jihad is very much active in modern Western democracies. In America, for example, armed militias and groups such as Aryan Nations are attempts to overthrow the moral corruption of modern capitalism. Less extreme but in the same vein are fundamentalist Christians who believe Judgment Day is imminent, and perhaps welcome it. Many will recall the reaction of Pat Robertson and other fundamentalists after the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attack --it was, they said, God punishing an immoral, Godless society. Overall, Jihad vs. McWorld is an important book because it puts the chaotic world situation into meaningful perspective. His analysis shows the dangers of oversimplifying things and invites us to look at the complexities of this rather tragic modern dialectic. As Barber tells us, if either Jihad or McWorld is allowed to triumph, the world of the future will not be very free, sane or pleasant.	2002-09-02
US	52465175	R1M3Y47YTTAKP	0754006913	951471893	Snail Eggs & Samphire: Dispatches from the Food Front	Books	3	0	0	N	N	All you could possibly want to know about food and then some	Derek Cooper is a well known British food writer. Snail Eggs and Samphire is a collection of his writings. This work has the problem common to anthologies of this sort; a long string of essays don't really form a single book. I also feel it is too long. Many of the essays overlap, and Cooper often makes the same point in several pieces. Although only about a decade old, the commentary often seems outdated. For instance, many &quot;new trends&quot; Cooper observes here, such as in natural foods, seem like ancient history by now. A final caveat --Cooper is writing primarily for a British Isles audience and much of the material is specific to that region. After all these complaints, believe it or not I can still find much to recommend in this book. One of the points that Cooper repeatedly makes is the preferability of natural foods over highly processed ones. This is probably worth hearing over and over again, as many people remain addicted to junk foods. And Cooper isn't talking about trendy health foods (not primarily anyway); there are many detailed narratives about fresh fish, cheese made the old-fashioned way,<br />free-range chickens, organic vs. commercial produce and so forth. Squeamish vegetarians should probably avoid this book, as there are some rather graphic descriptions of fish and animal organs. Cooper introduces us to many fellow food enthusiasts along the way (don't expect me to remember any names); other writers, owners of fine restaurants, organic wine growers in California, and countless others. Although most of the writings are concerned with his native England (and its Celtic neighbors Ireland, Scotland and Wales), Cooper also takes us to Russia, America, Israel and Italy in his search for great cuisine. At times he comes across like a crusader, but it's hard to question the rightness of his cause. Since this book came out, the commercialization of food (along with everything else for that matter) has only increased. Despite the growing natural foods movement, fast foods, convenience foods and just plain boring and tasteless homogenized foods are still the norm. Food enthusiasts will love this book and be more tolerant than I was of its redundancies.  Others should still listen for their own education, or seek the same information in a more concise format. As this is an audio book, I should also mention that the reader is excellent. He successfully brings to life the many diverse personalities Cooper interviews, perfectly capturing accents from French to Cockney to American.s movement, fast foods, convenience foods and just plain boring and tasteless homogenized foods are still the norm. Food enthusiasts will love this book and be more tolerant than I was of its redundancies.  Others should still listen for their own education, or seek the same information in a more concise format. As this is an audio book, I should also mention that the reader is excellent. He successfully brings to life the many diverse personalities Cooper interviews, perfectly capturing accents from French to Cockney to American.	2002-08-25
US	52465175	R24XT405IJ1SGZ	0911662251	9988778	Kybalion: A Study of the Hermetic Philosophy of Ancient Egypt and Greece	Books	5	212	224	N	N	Concise summary of timeless spiritual principles	Along with the Tao Teh Ching, this little book first published by the Yogi Publication Society in 1912, is one of the most complete and concise spiritual texts ever written. Many critics have criticized the Kybalion's lack of &quot;authenticity.&quot; The teachings are allegedly taken from an ancient Egpytian teacher or demi-god named Hermes Trismegistus. Scholars, on the other hand, mainly believe that the Hermetic movement was really born in the Greek era. None of this in any way detracts from the value of this work. The true Hermes has always been a trickster god who blurs the distinction between history and mythology, so if you want real knowledge it's far preferable to leave the dry scholarship to the scholars and focus on the principles. Another criticism posed by those who don't understand such matters is that the material contained in the Kybalion is really from other traditions, such as Far Eastern. The true understanding of Hermetic philosophy is that truth is truth and it all comes from the same basic source. It follows from this that beliefs from one part of the world will be duplicated elsewhere. Debates concerning origins are very important in the fields of history, anthropology and archeology. To those on a quest for spiritual knowledge they are meaningless. I won't go through the list of seven principles contained in the Kybalion, but the primary ideas are quite simple, yet at the same time paradoxical. The universe is ultimately One, but that oneness manifests itself in duality. This is identical in essence to the Chinese idea that the Tao expresses itself through Yin and Yang. This duality creates a world where things are always moving from one extreme to the other, or Polarity as the Kybalion describes it. Perhaps the most important principle to keep in mind is that all opposites are really one. Apply this rather abstract notion to worldly matters such as politics and war and you will see the wisdom of it. This is a book worth reading many times.	2002-08-25
US	52465175	R3SA88VMH5Q8RF	067976268X	765856776	Anything Considered: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable lightweight suspense	This was my first experience reading Peter Mayle, who is best known for nonfiction about Southern France, the setting for this novel. The title comes from an ad placed by English expatriate Bennett (who only uses his last name). Bennett finds himself short on money as his real estate business falters. A sybarite without any particular direction in life, he advertises for unusual employment, adding \\"anything considered but marriage.\\" One of the replies to this ad is from Julian Poe, a rather sinister English aristocrat whose wealth comes from unspecified sources. Bennett is told all he has to do is live in Poe's  apartment in Monaco. This will enable Poe to avoid French taxes and allow Bennett to live in luxury. Things quickly become complicated, of course. Poe is actually part of a scheme to produce truffles,a frightfully expensive but apparently delicious (but all but impossible to grow) fungus. The plot from here turns into an unlikely, tongue-in-cheek spy thriller. Bennett finds an assistant and ally in Anna, a beautiful and resourceful ex-soldier. The two are pursued by several competing gangs of criminals as well as the French police. There is never a fear that anything really bad will happen to the pair. In many ways, the plot is secondary to the lush descriptions of the countryside and the gourmet meals favored by Bennett. I enjoyed it with some reservations. This is the sort of light reading favored by the highbrow set. Mayle is obviously very much enamored of a slow-paced, leisurely life where no one works very hard and the countryside is the material for landscapes, or at least postcards. The town where Bennett lives, Saint Martin le Vieux, is a rich person's idealization of the simple but robust rustic life. The book is very readable and the plot, though deliberately improbable, unfolds smoothly. I enjoyed it, and those not afflicted with my modern urban cynicism will probably enjoy it even more.	2002-08-04
US	52465175	R1U2867E3DIK51	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Skewed But Interesting Look at the Working Poor	We usually think of the Third World as Africa, Asia or Central America, but in this book Barbara Ehrenreich shows how closely much of America is starting to resemble the Third World in terms of income inequality and living conditions for the working poor. I recommend this book mainly because it will inform many members of the middle class and above about things they commonly ignore and may in fact prefer not to know. I wasn't completely enamored of the book's style. For one thing, Ehrenreich brings to the enterprise a strong left-liberal bias that colors all of her pereceptions. And, while her experiences working at low wage jobs was interesting to read about, the nature of her experiment was a bit disengenous. She was supposedly trying to determine whether these low wage jobs such as waitressing, housecleaning and retail sales would enable her to meet normal living expenses. In fact, as a writer who specializes in such topics, it's fairly certain that she knew the answer to these questions prior to going into the field. The experiences were more of a way to illustrate and dramatize what she already knew. And her observations and interactions with co-workers at these jobs is necessarily artificial. Like many members of her social class, she is unable to discard the persona of a privileged, white, educated, upper-middle class professional. Like many such people, her feelings regarding this identity are ambivalent, a mixture of pride and guilt. This causes her to bend over backwards in an effort to show her liberalism and lack of condescension to the poor people she meets. In the introduction, for example, she goes out of her way to point out that the working poor are fundamentally no different from the educated and prosperous. This, as Ehrenreich's experiences clearly show, is simply not true. This isn't to say that poor people are inferior, but it's a basic sociological fact that a person's job, income and environment greatly influence their beliefs and behavior. At the end of some of her assignments, Ehrenreich reveals her true motives for taking the jobs. In all of the cases she relates, the people were almost indifferent to, and clearly not very interested in this revelation. I cannot imagine such a lack of a reaction among more affluent people. The reason is clear enough; these people are struggling so much that they don't have the time or energy to be interested in abstract ideas. This is not a criticism of them, simply an observation, but one that Ehrenreich's ideology prevents her from looking at too closely. One of the fascinating subjects explored in this book is the culture of corporate propaganda, in which companies like Walmart use a sophisticated combination of techniques to ensure that their workforce remains docile and unrebellious. From the moment you fill out the job application, you are made to feel like, if not a prisoner, an institutionalized drone. Several of the places she applied to required personality tests that measure one's willingness to completely conform and turn in co-workers if necessary. I find it interesting how some of the consequences of capitalism have come to resemble communism.I was most impressed by the Evaluation chapter, the one that follows her work experiences. Here she points out that the working poor today are mostly invisible to those who live comfortably. In an increasingly fragmented and vicarious world, it's all too easy to live entirely within the sheltered cocoon of your milieu. This trend may be reversing, as the economy in general has taken a fall since Ehrenreich wrote this book. The basic points she brings up here are extremely important, and go beyond questions of politics and ideology. You don't have to be a socialist to agree with Ehrenreich that people who work hard should be able to pay their bills.the end of some of her assignments, Ehrenreich reveals her true motives for taking the jobs. In all of the cases she relates, the people were almost indifferent to, and clearly not very interested in this revelation. I cannot imagine such a lack of a reaction among more affluent people. The reason is clear enough; these people are struggling so much that they don't have the time or energy to be interested in abstract ideas. This is not a criticism of them, simply an observation, but one that Ehrenreich's ideology prevents her from looking at too closely. One of the fascinating subjects explored in this book is the culture of corporate propaganda, in which companies like Walmart use a sophisticated combination of techniques to ensure that their workforce remains docile and unrebellious. From the moment you fill out the job application, you are made to feel like, if not a prisoner, an institutionalized drone. Several of the places she applied to required personality tests that measure one's willingness to completely conform and turn in co-workers if necessary. I find it interesting how some of the consequences of capitalism have come to resemble communism.I was most impressed by the Evaluation chapter, the one that follows her work experiences. Here she points out that the working poor today are mostly invisible to those who live comfortably. In an increasingly fragmented and vicarious world, it's all too easy to live entirely within the sheltered cocoon of your milieu. This trend may be reversing, as the economy in general has taken a fall since Ehrenreich wrote this book. The basic points she brings up here are extremely important, and go beyond questions of politics and ideology. You don't have to be a socialist to agree with Ehrenreich that people who work hard should be able to pay their bills.	2002-08-02
US	52465175	RRS39HOY5LJ7Y	0452280036	421932324	Shadows on the Hudson	Books	5	32	32	N	N	A Brilliant Work	This is a long, deep novel that deals with some of the fundamental problems of human existence. More than any other writer, Singer (at least in this book) reminds me of Dostoyevsky, whose characters were constantly in existentialist turmoil over questions such as good vs. evil and whether or not there is a God (and if there is, is He good, evil or indifferent?) Of course, while Dostoyevsky was a Christian, all of the characters in Shadows on the Hudson are Jewish holocaust survivors who have recently emigrated to New York from Europe shortly after World War ll. This is something that none of them can forget, even for a day, as many barely escaped while their loved ones perished. Beyond this confrontation with evil and death, the novel is largely about the philosophical war between religious orthodoxy and hedonistic modern life. Contemporary readers who do not come from a strongly religious background may have some difficulty appreciating this dilemma. The mass culture that Singer found vulgar and amoral in the 50s has now all but taken over in America, leaving many people no frame of reference for any other type of existence. While there is much philosophizing, Singer succeeds in creating flesh and blood characters whose moral anguish is not simply abstract, but put to the test in daily life. The character we spend the most time with is Hertz Grein, a middle-aged man whose religious yearnings are in stark contrast to his lifestyle. He is a married man who has had a long affair with another woman. As the novel opens, he is preparing to run off with yet another woman. Grein's behavior through most of this book is both irrational and indefensible. He lies to all three women, and makes all his decisions on the whim of the moment. At the same time, he is hardly without a conscience. On the contrary, he is deeply ashamed of the pain he causes others and desperately wants to redeem himself. Reading Shadows on the Hudson, I got the feeling that Singer himself, as he wrote the book, was struggling with the very issues faced by Grein and his other, equally fascinating and conflicted characters. The central problem posed by the book is the paradox of faith. On the one hand, there is no evidence that God exists. Indeed, the prevalence of suffering and evil suggests an indifferent universe. On the other hand, life without faith is unbearable and leads to a world without meaning or values. Does this mean that we should, even in the absence of evidence, embrace a strict moral code? Although the conclusion of Shadows on the Hudson is somewhat ambiguous, Singer seems to answer this question tentatively in the affirmative. Whether or not you agree (I actually don't), the question is an extremely important one and this book gets to the core of it.he book, was struggling with the very issues faced by Grein and his other, equally fascinating and conflicted characters. The central problem posed by the book is the paradox of faith. On the one hand, there is no evidence that God exists. Indeed, the prevalence of suffering and evil suggests an indifferent universe. On the other hand, life without faith is unbearable and leads to a world without meaning or values. Does this mean that we should, even in the absence of evidence, embrace a strict moral code? Although the conclusion of Shadows on the Hudson is somewhat ambiguous, Singer seems to answer this question tentatively in the affirmative. Whether or not you agree (I actually don't), the question is an extremely important one and this book gets to the core of it.	2002-07-28
US	52465175	RBKXF5JZR4UG8	0312288670	95207168	The Other Side of Mulholland: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Funny, Compelling, Insightful	I read this book in one day of travelling while waiting in airports and flying and it made the day pass by quickly. I chose it because it looked like a light, face-paced read, which it was. However, it also has a surprising amount of depth and insight into, not only contemporary life in LA, but human nature in general, and family relationships in particular. Of course, people familiar with Los Angeles will most easily appreciate the way Randall divides the city in two. Mulholland is the street that separates the \\"upper\\" part of LA --the one we associate with wealth and the entertainment industry-- from the \\"lower\\" half, the often mocked San Fernando Valley. Of course, this division is oversimplified. For one thing, much of what this book calls upper LA is quite poor. That isn't really the point, however, and the book doesn't take itself seriously enough to make us quibble with a little imprecision. Almost every region on the planet has some sense of \\"us and them\\" or how \\"the other half\\" lives, and this is really what The Other Side of Mulholland captures. It focuses on twin brothers Perry and Tim, whose constantly shifting fortunes are measured by their ability to flourish in the semi-mythical Upper LA. In some ways, the brothers are opposites; Perry is straight, Tim is gay. Perry has had a relatively successful (though not nearly as successful as he'd like) career; Tim has mostly been drifting. In other ways, they are very similar; each is both fond of and envious of his brother. Both are extremely status conscious, yet, at the same time, unwilling to sacrifice principles for money and position. This novel almost reads like a movie, which is apt for something set in Hollywood. It reminded me a little of two satirical movies; The Player and LA Story. Like the former, people are desperately trying to find a winning plot to sell to a studio. Like LA Story, many current LA trends are fondly mocked. Ann, the twins' mother, embodies the restless spirit of Los Angeles (which apparently infects both sides of Mulholland); she is a hopeless dilettante, going from one cause and hobby to the next. Since so many trends that start in LA end up spreading to the rest of the world, nothing in this book can be considered solely of local interest. All in all, a great read.ich apparently infects both sides of Mulholland); she is a hopeless dilettante, going from one cause and hobby to the next. Since so many trends that start in LA end up spreading to the rest of the world, nothing in this book can be considered solely of local interest. All in all, a great read.	2002-07-28
US	52465175	R1QENSXHDZ0KRG	1556431767	380869408	The Double Mirror: A Skeptical Journey into Buddhist Tantra	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Spiritual Path or Cult?	In Double Mirror, Stephen Butterfield discusses some of his experiences with the controversial Tibetan Buddhist guru, Chogyam Trungpa. There is quite a bit of information here on Tibetan Buddhist beliefs and rituals --the stages of initiation, the principle of &quot;emptiness&quot; and the fundamental law of absolute devotion to the guru. Butterfield never becomes fully reconciled to the latter. His feelings about Trungpa and his organization are ambivalent throughout this book. On the one hand, Trungpa is described as an authentic teacher of Buddhism, inspiring Western students with his &quot;crazy wisdom&quot; tactics (in many ways similar to Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh). On the other hand, Butterfield gives ample evidence that this was as much a cult as a religion. There is a strict hierarchy within the organization; higher-ups live in luxury while beginners are treated as serfs. Worst of all, Tendzin, Trungpa's second in command, knowingly infected many students with AIDS. To complete the picture, Butterfield describes both Trungpa and Tendzin as alcoholics. These facts seem to go beyond the limits of even tantra or crazy wisdom and into the realm of pure exploitation and hypocrisy. Butterfield never fully reconciles the two sides of his experience, which gives the title of this book a double meaning (the first meaning is that a Buddhist perspective sees the inner and outer worlds as mirroring each other). He tries to reconcile a skeptical mind with a tradition demanding absolute obedience to a guru. This is a very difficult issue for someone raised in a Western culture and following an Eastern discipline, so I can't really fault Butterfield for not solving this dilemma. Still, there is something askew about the way he alternately praises and condemns the organization. More than having mixed feelings about it, he almost seems to have a split personality regarding it. Apparently, he left the group very conflicted and unable to synthesize his thoughts and feelings into either a positive or negative conclusion. He tries to justify this using the Buddhist doctrine of nonduality (the double mirror again), but I don't think this kind of ambivalence is quite the ideal aspired to by mystics. I wish the book had a little more about Butterfield's life and experiences within the group and less about ritual. There are many pages of detailed descriptions of rituals, using technical Buddhist terminology. To me, this detracted somewhat from the larger picture. Still, very interesting and recommended for spiritual seekers, especially those interested in Eastern religions.either a positive or negative conclusion. He tries to justify this using the Buddhist doctrine of nonduality (the double mirror again), but I don't think this kind of ambivalence is quite the ideal aspired to by mystics. I wish the book had a little more about Butterfield's life and experiences within the group and less about ritual. There are many pages of detailed descriptions of rituals, using technical Buddhist terminology. To me, this detracted somewhat from the larger picture. Still, very interesting and recommended for spiritual seekers, especially those interested in Eastern religions.	2002-07-12
US	52465175	R1AEP861JM8C2C	1585790370	551523711	My Cousin Rachel	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Fascinating romantic mystery	After seeing the movie (which is, for some reason, not available on video last time I checked) and reading the book, I recently listened to an excellent audiobook version of My Cousin Rachel, narrated by Jonathan Pryce. I actually like this story even more than Du Maurier's better known Rebecca. The novel is told from the standpoint of Philip, a self-centered and inexperienced man of twenty-four. It is a challenge to have a story told by a very flawed narrator, but it makes things more interesting if it's done well, as it is here. Philip was raised by his older cousin Ambrose, who dies shortly after marrying the mysterious Rachel. Rachel comes to the estate, which is soon to be in Philip's possession. He initially blames Rachel for Ambrose's death, but almost immediately falls under her spell. He is soon helplessly in love with her. The rest of the novel is a psychological mystery --is Rachel kind and generous or ruthless and conniving, as Philip first suspected? The genius of My Cousin Rachel is in its two primary characters, Rachel and Philip. The first is the archetypal mysterious, beatiful woman who may be either good or evil. Philip is also a complex and interesting character. Just as the reader becomes exasperated at his naivete and immaturity, we are shown that he is also capable of great love and devotion. His faults, we understand, are due to his background. My Cousin Rachel has a classically English gothic atmosphere (the setting is Cornwall), a la the Bronte novels. It is at once a mystery, a romance and a fascinating psychological study.	2002-07-09
US	52465175	R2YHLDEV1FEC66	1585091286	584505386	Phenomenal World: Remote Viewing, Astral Travel, Apparitions, Extraterrestrials, Lucid Dreams and Other Forms of Intelligent Contact in	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	UFOs, Conspiracies and Husserl	This is an unusual and very ambitious book that attempts to connect many ideas, theories and phenomena. Though not very long (200 pages), it is packed with information and speculation about all things usually dubbed occult or paranormal. Joan D'arc covers UFOs, quantum physics, the CIA's (and other governmental agencies) involvement with psychedelics and mind control and phenomenology. The latter, a philosophical cousin to existentialism, is concerned with the problem of the subjective vs. the objective; is the world we perceive the \\"real\\" world, or merely our personal version of it? What makes Phenomenal World unique is the connecting of ivory tower philosophy (Husserl, Sartre, Heidegger and Merleau-Ponty in particular), fringe conspiracy theories and cutting-edge science (especially quantum physics). Another subject D'arc goes into at some length is Scientology, whose principles have apparently been appropriated by intelligence agencies. As you may gather from this review, this is not the easiest book to read --I was a philosophy major, but must confess that I understood very little of phenomenology. It could have been more tightly edited; in several places, for example, the same quotes are repeated twice in successive paragraphs. Despite these quibbles, however, I highly recommend this book, especially to those who have a basic familiarity with one or more of the topics it deals with. D'arc raises an extremely important issue --the way perception influences reality. While this in itself is not new --many new age and occult books have this theme-- Phenomenal World makes us look at many \\"paranormal\\" events from this perspective, putting everything into a new light. It's one thing to analyze things like UFOs and government cover-ups as external problems that need explaining; it's quite another to face the possiblity that we who ask these questions have ultimately created the whole scenario. The universe may be one interconnected hologram (another theory discussed by D'arc). The question then becomes, not whether this or that phenomenon is real, but how and why do we create the reality we inhabit?D'arc). The question then becomes, not whether this or that phenomenon is real, but how and why do we create the reality we inhabit?	2002-07-08
US	52465175	R3BKQYAW0CZI9Q	155652241X	909665314	The Mole People: Life in the Tunnels Beneath New York City	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Penetrating glimpse of a seldom-seen world	I lived the first 20 years of my life in New York City, often taking subways. In the course of everyday life, I encountered many \\"street people,\\" but I never knew that there was a virtual underground city underneath the subway system where many people make their homes. In Mole People, Jennifer Toth gets a firsthand look at this world and its residents. Research for this book was quite dangerous, as some of the people living underground are drug addicts and/or mentally unstable. Toth thoroughly explores this strange part of the city, and through interviews humanizes  people who have become so alienated from mainstream society that they literally went underground. For many homeless people, living in these tunnels is preferable to the overcrowded and dangerous homeless shelters above ground. Also, there's a kind of homesteading feeling to it, similar to those who squat in abandoned buildings. The downside, of course, is that the tunnels are dangerous (in addition to violence, there is always the threat of electrocution from live subway rails) and some develop an aversion to going above ground at all. Toth doesn't present this as an abstract sociological study. In writing the book, she developed a good rapport with many of the surprisingly diverse people who live down there. It's fascinating how they've created subterranean homes, complete with furniture, electricity and sometimes even pets. On the other hand, it's sad that most of these underground dwellers are there because they can't, or believe they can't, live a normal life (astronomical New York City rents don't help this situation). All in all, a fascinating, insightful look at a rarely studied subculture.	2002-07-03
US	52465175	R2SZQIP5FXFAWR	0671892606	483520425	Shadow Song: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Romantic novel rises above nostalgia	I was initially drawn to this book because it takes place in a region close to my own, the Catskills of upstate New York. Indeed, location plays a large role in this compelling story of love lost and possibly found many years later. Terry Kay's atmospheric novel evokes the lush scenery of this area and also the bygone days of thriving Jewish resorts. Shadow Song is about the very long (in time as well as space) journey of Bobo Murphy from the deep South to an upstate New York resort, where he falls in love with a beautiful but inaccessible Jewish girl named Amy Lourie. He also befriends an eccentric but wise older man named Avrum. These elements would probably not make a good film --the subtlety of the prose would be lost and all that would remain would be mushy sentimentality. This is, to be sure, a nostalgic and sentimental love story. Yet the novel manages to work anyway, most likely because the author really believes in his characters and their emotions. Nostalgia, after all, can be a part of real life. Shadow Song dives directly into this theme without flinching and makes us believe in it and care about the characters.	2002-06-12
US	52465175	R20FI27W3878E2	1565846397	15465595	On the Beaten Track: Tourism, Art, and Place	Books	3	16	16	N	N	An Interesting, Challenging Study of Art and Tourism	On The Beaten Track is a collection of essays on the overlapping themes of art, tourism and culture. Lucy Lippard discusses many aspects of modern tourism's impact on local landscapes and people. She places special emphasis on areas she is familiar with --New Mexico and Maine. She is a perceptive and original cultural critic, introducing the reader to alternative interpretations of everyday sites. It has occurred to me in recent years that modern society increasingly resembles a giant theme park or museum, with everything fenced off and labelled for the convenience of conventional, middle class Americans (or Asians or Europeans, as the case may be). This is the sort of thing that Lippard explores in On The Beaten Track.I found her observations on museums especially thought-provoking. Are museums good for the arts or are they elitist institutions that dictate the meaning of art to the masses? This is the kind of question the book raises, without providing any simple answers. While I found the subject matter fascinating, I didn't find the book especially easy to read. While this isn't necessarily bad (not all books are meant to be easy), I find Lippard's style of writing a bit abstruse. In places she quotes one artist or writer after the other (or mentions examples of their works) without tying the various threads together. The style is perhaps analagous to a collage (I believe the author is an artist), and some readers will probably love it. More left-brained readers (e.g. me) may find this a bit perplexing, but we can still appreciate the many important questions and insights brought out in these essays.	2002-05-08
US	52465175	R323VX137T2YHQ	0688006272	668868663	Conversations With Rabbi Small	Books	3	46	52	N	N	Informative on Jewish culture & history	I'm not familiar with the other Rabbi Small books, which are apparently mysteries. Conversations With Rabbi Small provides a thorough examination of the Jewish religion. As the title suggests, most of the novel covers a series of conversations between Rabbi Small and a couple, Aaron and Joan. Aaron is Jewish; Joan is Christian, but is considering converting for the sake of her impending marriage. Aaron is not a religious Jew, but a scientist with an atheistic bent. Rabbi Small takes it upon himself to \\"convert\\" Aaron by explaining how Judaism is actually perfectly compatible with science and reason. As a non-Jew (and nonChristian actually) with an avid interest in history, philosophy and religion, I found Conversations to be a good source of information. One caveat --some non-Jews, especially religious Christians, may find some of the Rabbi's views objectionable. To paraphrase one passage, for example: \\"Christianity is a religion for dying, Judaism for living.\\" He is similarly (and predictably) biased concerning the Arab-Israeli conflict. And if he is less than charitable towards Christianity, he (the author, that is, speaking as Rabbi Small) shows very little understanding of either Eastern religions or mysticism, both of which are simplistically equated with mere escapism. Rabbi Small represents a particular sect of Judaism, the conservative branch. He is critical of Jews who believe in life after death and any form of mysticism (thus dismissing virtually the entire Kabbalistic tradition). Yet, while all these points may be debated, they don't really detract from the book. Indeed, it wouldn't be realistic to have a devout conservative Rabbi give equal treatment to other traditions. History does, after all, give Jews good reason to be suspicious of Christians. And the biases that are present are openly admitted (e.g. Rabbi Small doesn't claim to speak for all Jews). Conversations is in the tradition of the Platonic dialogues, with Aaron and Joan playing, to some extent, shills for the wise Socratic Rabbi. The book is well written, with enough external distractions from the dialogue to remind the reader that these are real people, not merely disembodied intellects.tent, shills for the wise Socratic Rabbi. The book is well written, with enough external distractions from the dialogue to remind the reader that these are real people, not merely disembodied intellects.	2002-04-07
US	52465175	RDQYGRK381ICN	0609608533	218013048	Piranha to Scurfy: And Other Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Stories rate from entertaining to outstanding	Ruth Rendell is one of my favorite contemporary writers, and I was not disappointed by this collection. The three I most enjoyed were the title story, The Professionals and High Mysterious Union. What sets Rendell apart from most suspense writers is the originality of her characters. She has a knack for creating highly ambiguous personalities with unexpected (and often amusing) eccentricities. Ambrose Ribbon, of Piranha To Scurfy, is such a character. An intellectual elitist and loner, he writes scathing letters to popular authors, pointing out trivial errors in their works. The way he gradually comes undone reminded me of Poe's The Telltale Heart.<br />The final story, High Mysterious Union, is set in a wonderfully<br />eerie atmosphere. Although we've all read stories or seen films about sinister rustic villages, no one can do this better than Rendell, and this story has an unusual twist (the villagers aren't devil worshippers looking for sacrificial victims, as I first suspected).<br /><br />All in all, a brilliant collection of stories. If you're not already a Ruth Rendell fan, this will probably make you want to read some of her novels.	2002-03-10
US	52465175	R3BC8CHWQULPAX	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Pointers, Interesting Biographical info	Stephen King's first bestsellers, Carrie and Salem's Lot came out when I was a teenager, and he quickly became one of my favorite writers. I'm now considerably less enthusiastic about him, but he's still a master of the horror genre and a pretty good writer overall. A good argument can be made than anyone who has sold as many books as King is qualified to give some useful tips to aspiring writers, and On Writing supports this. Fans of King will enjoy the autobiographical portion of the book. He discusses his accident of several years ago, which occured in the middle of writing this book. As for the writing advice, most of it is quite sound. Although a lot of what he says can be found in other books, we can be assured that King has actually utilized and profited from what he advocates. In my opinion, his best advice is to read a lot. Not original perhaps, but this is something that can hardly be overstated, and King really makes a good case for it. Some of his opinions on writing are, well, opinions that will not work for everyone, such as his disapproval of plotting a story. To his credit, he concedes that some of the writing flaws he points out can be found in his own books (e.g. using too many adverbs). This book should be informative and useful to King fans and writers alike.	2002-02-27
US	52465175	R2TUUM5CZF6WTH	0684856409	536076442	500 Ways to Beat the Hollywood Script Reader: Writing the Screenplay the Reader Will Recommend	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great Advice for Screenwriters	I wouldn't say that this is the only book on screenwriting you should read, but it contains some really useful tidbits not found elsewhere. The way the book presents the five hundred tips as separate bullets is consistent with the spare writing style advocated by Jennifer Lerch. While other books on scriptwriting give a more comprehensive treatment of the craft (e.g. writing outlines &amp; treatments, marketing, script format), Lerch focuses strictly on the writing end of things. She is obviously fluent in the language of the script. Her terse, no-nonsense style not only describes, but embodies what the writer needs to learn to become a success in this very tough business.	2002-02-25
US	52465175	RYTDAC2Z6RWB	0787657557	779877251	Videohound's Golden Movie Retriever 2002	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Must for Film Buffs	The Videohound's guides are the most comprehensive and user-friendly collections of movie reviews around. Films are sorted by title, genre, cast, director, writer and even composer and cinematographer, so if you can remember anything at all about a movie, you can look it up. Reviews are concise and often amusing, with ratings from Woof! to ****. Many of the Woofs! are low-budget horror films that fall into the \\"so bad it's good\\" category. Flaws? In my opinion, some of the reviewers (I assume they weren't all written by one person!) don't appreciate many low-key, offbeat independent films. Some of my favorite movies only get one or two stars. But no gigantic collection of reviews can expect to please everyone, and the primary value of Videohound's is that it's a superb reference tool. Whether you agree with the reviews is secondary.	2002-02-17
US	52465175	R3GZWCLST95BUU	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Makes you see the world differently	No Logo is a book well worth reading no matter what your political persuasion. It will make you aware, or more aware, of just how pervasive the \\"branding\\" of the world has become. Naomi Klein's book is well-researched, well-organized and well-written. It deals with some quite complicated material, such as the interaction between various social and economic forces, while always remaining very readable and never lapsing into simplistic ideological rhetoric or academic-style jargon. No Logo documents the history of the brand in America, then goes on to explore various ways people have resisted the corporate domination of modern life. It's difficult to dispute that these are important issues. Finding a solution, however, is not such a simple matter. Klein is sophisticated enough to be skeptical of the very kind of activism she covers in No Logo. For example, she points out how boycotts of high profile companies such as Nike often benefits other equally guilty (of exploiting its Third World labor force) but lower profile companies. One question that No Logo doesn't directly tackle is whether significant curtailment of corporate power would really benefit people in the Third World. It's likely, for example, that if companies were forced to improve working conditions, they'd simply hire fewer workers. It's a complex situation, and a kind of Catch-22 for the world's poor, including those in affluent nations stuck in \\"McJobs\\". However, we can't fault Naomi Klein for not solving such a complex problem. I highly recommend No Logo as a thorough study of modern capitalism's impact on our culture. It also provides insight into a growing protest movement, one this book has certainly helped along. Most of all this book, whether you agree with all of it or not, brilliantly synthesizes many complex issues and reveals the underlying forces that connect them. It's a significant contribution to modern social theory.	2002-02-07
US	52465175	RPZ61JE6HZINR	0953881016	571638377	Children of the Matrix: How an Interdimensional Race has Controlled the World for Thousands of Years-and Still Does	Books	3	14	19	N	Y	Fascinating, but true?	As a long-time student of conspiracy theories, I enjoyed reading David Icke's take on things. As others have noted, his goal appears to be bringing together many different conspiracy theories and revisionist versions of history --e.g. the global elite (aka New World Order), alien abductions, the alleged extraterrestrial origin of humanity, the many pre-Christian &quot;Christs,&quot; and so forth. As such, it's an excellent overview of alternative belief systems (some would say paranoid or crackpot theories). His main argument is that our reality is manipulated by a reptilian alien race. There's also a Nordic-like race of aliens who are sometimes at war with the reptiles and sometimes work with them. It's quite complicated. Although I don't believe everything in this book (I haven't read any of his others yet), it fits into my belief in a multidimensional universe. Icke himself, in what is one of the best chapters, says that, ultimately, everything comes from the same energy and that the various manifestations of things, including those we call &quot;evil&quot; are really aspects of ourselves. Barbara Marciniak, in Bringers of the Dawn, a book allegedly channeled by Pleidians, says early in the book (or the Pleidians say) that everything in the book is a story and should not be taken literally. I think this is equally true of Icke's book --and, for that matter, everything else in this largely illusory world.	2001-12-25
US	52465175	R3T4CI21XF1TUD	0520205715	228332480	Consuming the Romantic Utopia: Love and the Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Detailed, Scholarly, Original	This is an extremely thought-provoking look at the relationship between romance and consumer capitalism. It explores in some detail the way in which our expectations of love and romance are influenced, perhaps even created, by advertising and the media. Yet, it goes quite a bit beyond this fascinating but limited theme to tackle some wider issues. Eva Illouz's study cuts to some core aspects of contemporary culture --the way our perception of nature, travel and tourism (and of course the way these are related to romantic stereotypes) have become tied to capitalist consumption; the &quot;cultural contradiction&quot; of capitalism --namely, that it's based on production (i.e. hard work) yet sells us on consumption (i.e. materialism, leisure);<br />the different impact consumer culture has on working class and upper middle class people. The book appears to be aimed at an academic audience, which is a pity, because the subject is of much wider concern. While it definitely takes concentration, and a willingness to endure extensive footnotes, I found it well worth the effort.	2001-12-25
US	52465175	R33OCDW18RZDOY	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	2	253	287	N	Y	Faux beaus	This is a glib, semi-satirical look at the latest incarnation of yuppy baby boomers. Unfortunately, David Brooks is too fond of his subject for the satire to have much bite. The most disturbing thing about this book is that Brooks is insightful enough to see through the silliness, pretensions and superficiality of these people and idealizes them anyway. Bobos is actually quite a cynical book. For example, after thoroughly exposing the vacuous nature of modern \\"intellectuals\\" --dilettantes who care more about grants and social status than ideas, Brooks inexplicably maintains they are an improvement over intellectuals of previous decades. Bobos in Paradise is largely an exercise in denial. Brooks wants us (and himself no doubt) to believe that Bobos are cute, brilliant and idealistic and their flaws trivial. Furthermore, he argues that they are the new ruling class. This is more self-delusion on his part. The fact is, bobos are too content in their little cocoons of consumption to attempt to conquer the world. They are merely a faction of the upper middle class (not upper class as Brooks states) who are not well represented in the upper echelons of government or finance. When it comes down to it, bobos are merely the latest version of the self-absorbed bourgeois. The very way Brooks exaggerates their influence is a perfect example of their narcissism.	2001-12-11
US	52465175	R3UHMIZTEY94RO	1930486308	978938001	Paranoia	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Suspenseful & Informative	Paranoia is a taut, compelling read from start to finish. The narrator, Chad Carver, is an ordinary guy who's pulled into a nightmare world of conspiracy theories. When his long missing brother Palmer re-enters his life and tells him that the Illuminati, an immensely powerful group of conspirators, are about to kill the president and then committ further atrocities against the population, Chad must decide whether or not to believe him. Paranoia weaves many fascinating facts about actual conspiracies into the plot, enticing readers to do their own research. The novel is aptly named, for Dilouie manages to capture the essence of that state --the reader, like Chad, has no idea until the final pages who or what is to be believed. Readers of The Illuminatus Trilogy (by Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea) will especially appreciate this book, though it's also a good introduction to the intriguing but frightening realm of conspiracy theories.	2001-12-09
US	52465175	R10NU52D1WOCJV	0754006182	561671436	Essays in Love	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A Brilliant Study	This is a kind of hybrid novel/philosophical study of romantic love. The plot is, on the surface, a rather conventional one; a man and woman meet and fall in love. Most of the book, however, consists of the narrator (the male lover) reflecting on each stage of the process, from initial attraction to the despair of love's departure. What is perhaps most striking about Essays In Love is how Alain De Botton manages to combine passion and intellect. He is able to adroitly mix a scholarly, intellectual analysis with truly felt emotions. He is also extremely perceptive regarding the often perverse nature of our emotions. For example, he illustrates the tendency of someone in love to feel less highly of the loved one if he or she reciprocates the feeling. From this book, I'd guess De Botton has a background in Western philosophy, as the bulk of the references are from this field. Plato, Kant, Nietzsche, and many others are quoted. Yet the book is never dry or academic; the rawness of the lovers' emotions is always there to keep our hearts as well as our minds intrigued. James Wilby, the reader, perfectly captures the ideas, feelings and nuances of the story.	2001-11-29
US	52465175	R33T05AJPNVPPI	0740703579	669904317	The Millionaire Mind	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Some Useful Info, But Tedious	I didn't read Thomas Stanley's first book, The Millionaire Next Door and as I listened to The Millionaire Mind on tape, I wondered if his earlier work was more interesting. First of all, this book needs more editing. Stanley repeats himself constantly, not only bringing up the same topics chapter after chapter but often the same sentences. He also overuses statistics, some of which are dubious, some merely banal. For example, is it really a surprise that few multimillionaires buy lotto tickets? Then Stanley works out an elaborate formula showing how, using the average millionaire salary of $300/hour, money spent on lotto would add up over the years to something like $50,000. The problem is, poor and middle class people don't make this much per hour, so the formula doesn't apply to them; it merely gives a good argument for rich people not to play lotto. Possibly even more annoying than the statistics is Stanley's love of insipid acronyms, like OPM for other people's money (and that's the least annoying of them, I can't remember most of the others). There is useful information here, such as the sound advice to live beneath your means, but it could have been compressed into a much smaller book.	2001-06-14
US	52465175	R686C7NS7JF2K	0425178773	351280365	Day of Reckoning (Sean Dillon)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Cliched action thriller	I listened to this book on tape and was not at all impressed with it. There are so many flaws it's hard to know where to begin. The &quot;hero&quot; is Blake Johnson, a Rambo like character who has little personality. He mainly gives menacing looks to people who get in his way and says things like &quot;I'll make you sorry you were ever born.&quot; The main villain, incidentally, Fox, says the very same thing a few dozen pages after Johnson . Is Higgins trying to make a subtle point about the underlying similarity between the two? I don't think so; more likely he was simply sloppy. To root for the good guys in this book you have to believe that killers who work for presidents and prime ministers are morally superior to those in the mafia. Aside from some truly disturbing political implications --Higgins seems to celebrate the existence of hit squads who carry out secret vendettas-- there is another problem with the high level affiliations of Johnson and friends. In a suspense story, it helps when the hero is something of an underdog facing seemingly impossible odds. In this book, Johnson and his allies have all the resources of the American, British and even Israeli governments at their disposal. How can they lose? Overall, Day of Reckoning has the tone of a propaganda piece, glorifying  militarism. In an especially distasteful scene, or series of scenes, a young street kid named Billy is initiated into the ways of killing and learns that shedding blood is lots of fun. You don't have to be a pacifist or even a liberal to find it a bit sickening to see violence glorified in such a mindless and simplistic way. If a book is well written and has human characters and an intelligent plot, almost any point of view is justified. This book has none of these virtues.	2001-04-20
US	52465175	R3CAO1JHZGRBKN	0553012665	894115662	Little, Big	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Worlds Within Worlds	Little,Big is a beautifully written, lyrical novel of a family whose destiny is linked with magic and faeries.It begins with Smokey Barnable,the book's most \\"normal\\" character, as he prepares to marry Alice of the mysterious Drinkwater family. The novel explores the fascinating possiblity that there is not merely one world, but many worlds, one within another. While I enjoyed the book, I often felt like Smokey myself (which I'm sure Mr. Crowley intends), confused and wishing things would make a bit more sense --for example, one of the biggest events of the novel is a \\"war,\\" but I was never sure exactly who was fighting the war or what it was about. On the other hand, the whole point of the book is that we never know exactly what is going on in life, but must trust in magic and intuition. I was also a little uncomfortable with (what seemed to me) the fatalistic tone of the story. The faeries in Little,Big often act as the gods of ancient tales, determining the outcome of events, while the humans by contrast seem basically helpless. Still,the settings and characters are highly memorable and atmospheric and I recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys a good fantasy or who is fascinated by Otherworlds and faeries.	1999-01-22
