US	52473945	R2FJA3O8FIS784	1582432074	767058438	Stanley Park	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Fine dining from unexpected sources	Food is THE staple of life, the most primordial element of mankind's continuing survival.  Without food, without sustenance, man withers and dies, empty and unsatisfied.  Food is good, and everyone knows it.  So why do we continually shovel it down our throats without a thought as to the preparation, the presentation, the simple TASTE of the substance?  We need food, but we rarely give two thoughts as to its true importance in our lives.<br />Timothy Taylor has come to the same conclusion, that man has ignored the nobility of food and its prepartion for long enough.  It's time to remind the common folk of what good food can be, an entire experience that can be savoured in one's mind for weeks on end.  Taylor has risen to this challenge with admirable verve; his STANLEY PARK is a true feast for the mind.<br />STANLEY PARK (named after a famous park in Vancouver, British Columbia) follows the exploits of Jeremy Papier, chef par excellance.  Unfortunately for Jeremy, what he has in talent, he lacks in financial acumen, and his restaurant (The Monkey's Paw) is continually on the verge of complete collapse.  Jeremy is a Blood;  that is, a chef respectful of local culinary traditions and customs, using only local produce for his meals.  He finds it increasingly difficult to match wits with the Crips, chefs who consider themselves artists first and foremost, creating unusual meals though unorthodox combinations of foods (eg., Prawns with Spiced Yam Wafers, Grappa and Thai Ginger Cream).  In a culture where being hip is being odd, Jeremy is all the odder for sticking to his Blood guns.  Add to the mix an increasing pressure by famous coffee businessman Dante (owner of Dante's Inferno coffeehouses, a thinly veiled attack on Starbucks)to purchase Jeremy's talent and restaurant, and a father who has taken to living in Stanley Park to study the homeless, and Jeremy's life has taken on mythic proportions of personal angst.<br />Aas may be expected, Taylor excels in his detailed descriptions of life within a restaurant; the highs, the lows, the dizzying speed of food preparation and service, the exhaustion of a day's work, the pleasure of creating something that will be destroyed within minutes.  Taylor captures the focussed pressure of a busy restaurant that will be intimately familiar with anyone in the service industry, and possibly stupefying to anyone without previous experience.  The amount of talent and work that can go into every meal is rendered with perfect prose; Taylor's descriptions of food rank among the best, alongside Laura Esquivel's LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE and a particularly vivid passage from Richard Condon's PRIZZI'S HONOUR that still haunts this reviewer years later.  And Jeremy's efforts to avoid the collapse of his dream are on par with the desperate real-life efforts to stave off bankruptcy in Johnathan Harr's A CIVIL ACTION, but far funnier.<br />Taylor also nicely captures Jeremy's anxiety of 'selling out' to Dante; as an antidote, he begins to hang out with his father every night in the park, preparing meals for the homeless from whatever materials are readily available in a large park (use your imagination).  Jeremy's ultimate success, combining these two diverse factions of his life, leads to a final act of culinary greatness that is all the more appealing for its rather unusual menu.<br />Taylor, however, falters in a subplot concerning the past disappearance of two children in Stanley Park many decades previous.  While Jeremy's father becomes infatuated with the rmyth that has grown around the children, Taylor's final meaning concerning this subplot remains ambiguous at best.  It is an interesting story, but it jars the reader away for the main plot, and never firmly gels as a complete element of the story.<br />Otherwise, STANLEY PARK is a joy to read, a wondrous creation almost equal to the meals Jeremy creates.  The fact that the mouth waters at Taylor's descriptions of Jeremy's feasts is proof enough of his talent as a writer.  Luckily, Taylor can also pull off an interesting plot with remarkable characterizations as well.is talent as a writer.  Luckily, Taylor can also pull off an interesting plot with remarkable characterizations as well.	2002-06-30
US	52473945	R2VKOPL9KZNBI6	0440210917	59815281	Fade (Laurel Leaf Books)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Not every gift should be accepted	When the average person thinks about 'super-powers', what likely comes to mind is the usual conglomeration of superhero comic books, cartoons, movies, and television shows; a muscular gentleman in tights and a cape, not unlike a professional wrestler.  But far more intriguing, and satisfying, are the more literal takes on the theme, whereby ordinary people react in a realistic manner to powers they have no possibility of comprehending.  I think of novels such as Stephen King's THE DEAD ZONE (telekinesis), Paul Auster's MR. VERTIGO (levitation), and Jim Munroe's FLYBOY ACTION FIGURE COMES WITH GASMASK (transmogrification), or the Bruce Willis/Samuel L. Jackson movie UNBREAKABLE; examples of day-to-day people struck down by the impossible.  Into this more rarefied genre enters a sterling example of the hazzards of the unknown, FADE, by Robert Cormier.<br />FADE follows the life of Paul Moreaux, a young boy growing up in early 20th century America.  His family is constantly struggling with the labour and union problems of the time, and Paul himself has learned from his similarly inflicted uncle that he is cursed with a gift that is not what it seems; Paul has inherited the ability to 'fade', to disappear into nothingness on a whim.  While at first appropriately thrilled at the prospect, Paul soon realizes the dilemma that comes with such a gift.  His juvenile thrill-seeking leads to discoveries of a sexual nature both exciting and perverse, and deeply unsettling.  And as his father becomes enmeshed in the violence of the labour revolts, Paul finds himself compelled to commit an act that will haunt his every move for the rest of his life.<br />To give away any more of the plot would be to ruin the pleasures that such a novel provides.  As Paul's story progresses, it is contrasted with a modern-day account of his life by his niece.  Playing the innocence of youth off the wisdom of maturity gives FADE a poignant, and sometimes more horrific edge.  Cormier plays his hand close to this chest, never revealing more than the reader needs to know, yet constantly imparting a foreboding sense of unease as the story unfolds.  His presentation of Paul's early life, the nature of youth, is both nostalgic and realistic.  Paul is just at that age where the seriousness of life has become evident, yet the thoughtlessness and frivolity of immaturity still pulls strong on his psyche.  Every person has that one event in their life that separates childhood from adulthood, and it is just Paul's misfortune that 'fading' is his introduction to the complexities of the world.  The power of invisibility is never presented as the 'cure-all' that some people would like to believe.  It is a power for which there is no practical purpose, yet is a power that can extract a terrible toil upon those unfortunate enough to possess it.  Paul's adult persona, after swearing off the use of his fade, learns the perils that such a path provides, as he discovers the next generation of the gift.<br />Cormier's true gift in this narrative is to never lose sight of the way the world works.  A person with a power has to adapt to a world unprepared for such an event.  The knowledge of his difference serves to affect his every waking moment; his refusal to travel, or have his picture taken, or even associate beyond his close circle of family and friends.  The insular nature of being different is a universal theme that everyone copes with on one level or another.  The popular child who realizes that he or she has nothing to offer beyond appearance.  The powerful executive who cannot cope with people on a less-than-professional basis.  Look at the afflicted Johnny Smith of THE DEAD ZONE, living as a target for every weekly news-rag and sad-sack, because he had the bad idea to go public with his gift.  Being different than everyone else leaves you a target for the uninformed, the  uncaring, and the ignorant.  Cormier knows this, perhaps as a byproduct of all the 'young adult' novels he has written.  Everyone has a fear of being different; it's how we handle this fear that helps define who we are.<br />FADE is a truly fine novel, a memorable exploration of the tried-and-true theme, &quot;With great power comes great responsibility&quot;.  Paul's life is a testament to this idea, and his failures to fully comprehend this credo leads to some terrible consequences.  God forbid someone less able to cope should be afflicted with such a power.  As Paul comes to realize, the world itself would never be safe with such a threat.s he has written.  Everyone has a fear of being different; it's how we handle this fear that helps define who we are.<br />FADE is a truly fine novel, a memorable exploration of the tried-and-true theme, &quot;With great power comes great responsibility&quot;.  Paul's life is a testament to this idea, and his failures to fully comprehend this credo leads to some terrible consequences.  God forbid someone less able to cope should be afflicted with such a power.  As Paul comes to realize, the world itself would never be safe with such a threat.	2001-10-17
US	52473945	R2W1BTWM2J0ZBB	0385258801	858914774	Kiss of the Fur Queen	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An important story	When does a novel of fiction become 'too' autobiographical?  Is there a line in the sand that cannot be crossed, a line that seperates the purely imagined from stark reality?  If there is such a line, celebrated Canadian author Tomson Highway dances on its edge many times over, in his alternately humourous and harrowing novel KISS OF THE FUR QUEEN.<br />FUR QUEEN tells the truly sad tale of Champion and Ooneemeetoo Okimasis, Cree brothers growing up in Northern Manitoba.  At an all-too-early age, Champion and Ooneemeetoo are torn from their magical life, thrust headlong into Canada's then-enforced policy of subjecting native children to Catholic residential schools.  They are renamed Jeremiah and Gabriel, force-fed a life of Christian beliefs, subjected to monstrous acts by the priests, and removed from any conception of their people's history, language, and traditions.  Slowly maturing into young men, Champion (Jeremiah) begins a career as a concert pianist, while Gabriel pursues a life in dance.  As they struggle to cope in a world that increasingly alienates them from their past, their heritage re-enters their lives in unexpected and sometimes tragic ways.<br />Highway is a gifted writer, as evident from the multitude of awards he recieved for his plays THE REZ SISTERS and DRY LIPS OUGHT TO MOVE TO KASPUSKASING (both incredible plays, by the way).  His presentation of the realities of Native-Canadian life has been lauded for its sense of humanity in the face of horror, as well as for showing a world that many people would rather ignore, or refuse to believe exists.  So it is with FUR QUEEN.  Highway's slow evolution of the narrative is masterful, travelling from the nostalgic remembrances of a child's idyllic life to the brutalities that face Native-Canadians in the 'evolved' city of Winnipeg.  His inter-twining of Cree mythology with modern prose serves to more fully involve the reader in the Okimasis's daily struggle.  At times, the writing becomes a bit confusing, slightly hallucinatory, but this disparity aids the reader in understanding the warring factions that exist within the minds of Jeremiah and Gabriel.  We are all products of our upbringing, and nowhere is this more evident than in the confusion and self-loathing that threatens to consume the brothers at every turn.<br />But when does it become too autobiographical to qualify as fiction?  Granted, almost all authors could be accused of importing elements of their lives into their work, but Highway pushes the envelope.  He, too, grew up in Northern Manitoba, and was forced, along with his brother Rene, to attend Catholic school.  There, they were both abused at the hands of their religious teachers, in a ongoing chapter of Canadian history that must surely rank as one of its most shameful.  Rene grew up to be a dancer, while Tomson slowly evolved as a writer, much as Jeremiah does.  And all the while, both were subjected to the casual and blatant racism that Native-Canadians face daily.<br />Yet perhaps this is besides the point.  Whether one's story is thinly disguised as 'fiction' or not does not alter the powerful nature of the story itself.  By attributing a fictional aspect to the narrative, Highway may be better able to import the more fantastical elements that lurk behind the realism, adding the omnipresent Fur Queen as a fairy godmother of sorts, a personal angel that guides the Okimasis family through their tribulations.  And whether autobiographical or not, FUR QUEEN constantly guides the reader into unexpected places.<br />Are there better novels out there?  Yes.  Highway sometimes loses control of the story, and his experienced hand at dialogue is sometimes thwarted by the more descriptive nature of a novel.  Despite this, KISS OF THE FUR QUEEN is an important novel, one that should be told many times over.  The story is far too familiar for those in similar circumstances, and far too imcomprehensible for those lucky enough to have had a choice in where their lives would take them.  By confronting the issues, as Highway does fearlessly, we can see where we've been, and maybe we can affect change as to where we're headed.re their lives would take them.  By confronting the issues, as Highway does fearlessly, we can see where we've been, and maybe we can affect change as to where we're headed.	2001-10-09
US	52473945	R14DAOJ8M5OTOO	0380720477	957821955	A Stained White Radiance	Books	4	46	46	N	N	Sometimes, surviving the day can be enough	If the axiom &#8216;Write what you know&#8217; is at all true, then James Lee Burke must have some truly frightening skeletons in his closet.  It isn&#8217;t so much the subject matter, as it is the passion and intensity with which he pours the narrative onto the page.  Burke&#8217;s characters live and breathe corruption, and ignorance, and violence, in a manner most of us would scarcely think possible.  But he draws us in, into a world so vividly sketched that part of our being yearns to visit it again and again.<br />A SHINING WHITE RADIANCE is vintage Burke, another steamy and scintillating exploration of crime and corruption in New Orleans.  His familiar hero, world-weary police detective Dave Robicheaux, is unwillingly enveloped in the twisted lives of the Sonniers, a local family with a history so unnerving that it&#8217;s a wonder any of them got out alive.  Following the brutal slaying of a police officer in Weldon Sonnier&#8217;s home, Robicheaux is swiftly sped along a road of clues and red herrings, stopping at various points to involve late-night tele-evangelists, local crime bosses, past loves, Air America, drugs, and the AB (Aryan Brotherhood).<br />Burke has so far (as far as my readings of the Robicheaux novels are concerned) avoided the pitfalls that can trap the author of an ongoing series.  The temptation must be great to simply graft a plot around the characters, and let it all just slide by.  Burke takes the effort needed to not insult his readership, never content to let the characters simply act as they have in the past.  Burke comes up with new ways to reintroduce us to the characters, allowing for new developments that expand what we thought we new about his universe.  Robicheaux&#8217;s past experiences in Vietnam are brought in as integral elements of the story, not simply &#8216;character filler&#8217;.  His deep self-loathing for past mistakes, his never-ceasing battle with personal demons (both internal and external), and his ceaselessly evolving relationship with his wife Bootsie,  adopted child Alafair, close friend Batist, and even closer friend Clete Purcel, keep the tale rooted in reality.<br />Burke can also compose one fine episode of menace after another.  Just watch Robicheaux&#8217;s prison-cell conversation with Joey Gouza.  Burke teases the reader, never showing his hand too early, and climaxes the scene with a harrowing interlude of incipient violence.  The vignette is all the more striking for its lack of outward activity.  The suspense is completely internalized, and mesmerizing.  Only afterwards to you realize that you&#8217;ve been holding your breath.<br />Burke can also pen descriptive and atmospheric language with the best of them.  His characters all speak with the accent of local patois, adding to the laid-back (but not lazy) environment of Burke&#8217;s New Orleans. His finesse with the undercurrent of racism permeates every moment, and his depictions of the backwoods swamps and seedy taverns are vivid.  Maybe this New Orleans doesn&#8217;t exist in real life, but it feels like it does.<br />Does it all wrap up satisfyingly?  No.  After all the set-up, the promising situations, and the pacing that is both leisurely and break-neck, the ultimate denouement is somewhat lacking.  But in context, perhaps it&#8217;s the only ending that would fit.  As Robicheaux himself comes to understand, not everything in life is fair, and not everyone gets what they deserve.  Evil will continue, but so will good.  How we react to it, deal with it, is what defines us.  If we&#8217;re still standing at the end of the day, then we&#8217;ve won.ssly evolving relationship with his wife Bootsie,  adopted child Alafair, close friend Batist, and even closer friend Clete Purcel, keep the tale rooted in reality.<br />Burke can also compose one fine episode of menace after another.  Just watch Robicheaux&#8217;s prison-cell conversation with Joey Gouza.  Burke teases the reader, never showing his hand too early, and climaxes the scene with a harrowing interlude of incipient violence.  The vignette is all the more striking for its lack of outward activity.  The suspense is completely internalized, and mesmerizing.  Only afterwards to you realize that you&#8217;ve been holding your breath.<br />Burke can also pen descriptive and atmospheric language with the best of them.  His characters all speak with the accent of local patois, adding to the laid-back (but not lazy) environment of Burke&#8217;s New Orleans. His finesse with the undercurrent of racism permeates every moment, and his depictions of the backwoods swamps and seedy taverns are vivid.  Maybe this New Orleans doesn&#8217;t exist in real life, but it feels like it does.<br />Does it all wrap up satisfyingly?  No.  After all the set-up, the promising situations, and the pacing that is both leisurely and break-neck, the ultimate denouement is somewhat lacking.  But in context, perhaps it&#8217;s the only ending that would fit.  As Robicheaux himself comes to understand, not everything in life is fair, and not everyone gets what they deserve.  Evil will continue, but so will good.  How we react to it, deal with it, is what defines us.  If we&#8217;re still standing at the end of the day, then we&#8217;ve won.	2001-09-18
US	52473945	R2HSUKC5JWBY74	0312275420	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	No answers given	What is death?  It is a question that haunts every human, as natural to our being as breathing.  Many, many thousands of books have been written on the subject, most aimed at determining an afterlife of some sort, or a purpose behind it all.  However, author Jim Crace is not content to mirror such themes, whether they are phantasmagorical (Richard Matheson's WHAT DREAMS MAY COME), or contemplative (M. Scott Peck's IN HEAVEN AS ON EARTH).  Crace wants to understand what death is, what it means, and what is lost and gained in the process.<br />Crace achieves a remarkable mediation on the subject in BEING DEAD, a novel that is unnerving in its originality and tenderness.  He centres on Joseph and Celice, an elderly married couple, brutally murdered on a quiet beach.  Crace takes several offbeat tacts in portraying what these deaths mean, both biologically and emotionally.<br />First, the bodies themselves.  Crace goes into determinedly graphic detail in his characterization of decomposition.  As the bodies slowly deteriorate, the small world that surrounds them begins to interact, to reclaim the material for nature.  For most of us, the thought of what happens to our bodies physically after death is a repulsive one.  Yet Crace never offends, and never becomes exploitative.  The lyricism and sense of melancholy Crace brings to the biological breakdown of a body are truly haunting.<br />Interwoven with biology is nostalgia, as Crace charts the map of Joseph and Celice's relationship.  From the first awkward rush of passion, to the resignation that an elderly couple may face every day, Crace allows the reader a glimpse into their minds, a reminder that every person is unique, and what we see is only superficial.  Joseph's small frame and majestic singing voice only hint at his unhappiness with his life's outcome;  physical opposite Celice's apparent quiet love of her husband masks her increasing frustration with the lack of passion in her life.  These small glimpses into the makeup of their lives are an abrupt change from the description of their deaths, but the contrast serves to heighten the senselessness of death, and the steadfast mysteries that life and death both contain.  How can we ever believe we can comprehend death, when we cannot even begin to understand the true nature and purpose of one solitary individual?<br />Thirdly, Crace follows their daughter, a sullen young woman who has never gotten along with either of her parents.  As she reluctantly searches for her missing mother and father, we view the way our lives continue after death, in the thoughts and memories of those we knew, and in the biological framework of our progeny.  While the daughter would never admit it, she is equal parts mother and father, displaying both the good and bad traits of her parents.  In Joseph and Celice's death, she finds a measure of comfort and renewal, ultimately of purpose.<br />I do not mean for this to sound like a spiritual odyssey.  As in his previous novel QUARANTINE (a realist version of Christ's forty days in the desert), Crace is not ready to resort to comforting platitudes on what comes next.  Death is death, and what is beyond remains, and should remain, a mystery.  Death is both intensely personal, and a universal experience shared by all.  By providing the reader no easy answers, by never revealing the answer to the question, Crace provides an altogether mesmerizing and satisfying experience.the makeup of their lives are an abrupt change from the description of their deaths, but the contrast serves to heighten the senselessness of death, and the steadfast mysteries that life and death both contain.  How can we ever believe we can comprehend death, when we cannot even begin to understand the true nature and purpose of one solitary individual?<br />Thirdly, Crace follows their daughter, a sullen young woman who has never gotten along with either of her parents.  As she reluctantly searches for her missing mother and father, we view the way our lives continue after death, in the thoughts and memories of those we knew, and in the biological framework of our progeny.  While the daughter would never admit it, she is equal parts mother and father, displaying both the good and bad traits of her parents.  In Joseph and Celice's death, she finds a measure of comfort and renewal, ultimately of purpose.<br />I do not mean for this to sound like a spiritual odyssey.  As in his previous novel QUARANTINE (a realist version of Christ's forty days in the desert), Crace is not ready to resort to comforting platitudes on what comes next.  Death is death, and what is beyond remains, and should remain, a mystery.  Death is both intensely personal, and a universal experience shared by all.  By providing the reader no easy answers, by never revealing the answer to the question, Crace provides an altogether mesmerizing and satisfying experience.	2001-09-15
US	52473945	R1W0ZQYU7NL9F5	0140131558	71854538	The New York Trilogy: City of Glass; Ghosts; The Locked Room  (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Reality is what you make of it	How do you discuss a mystery that's not a mystery?  More importantly, how do you WRITE three mysteries that aren't?  And still manage to create involving, memorable, and deeply disturbing novels?  I don't know how, but Paul Auster has figured out.  In the space of three short novels, Auster has developed mysteries that are more concerned with ideas than plot, with the style of writing rather than the content.  He has, in short, written THE NEW YORK TRILOGY.<br />Describing the plots does no justice to the novels (they are, after all, practically plotless), but I will endeavor to summarize.  CITY OF GLASS tracks Quinn, a frustrated novelist who agrees to accept a detective case, after being mistaken for the detective Paul Auster.  GHOSTS follows the exploits of Blue, a detective hired by White to spy on Black, for reasons which remain obscure.  THE LOCKED ROOM is centered on an author who has been charged with the task of tending to an old friend's vast literary output, after the friend has mysteriously vanished from civilization.<br />As mentioned previously, these novels ARE mysteries, on their surfaces.  (That's initially what drew me to their pages.)  But Auster isn't concerned with the intricacies of the detective genre.  He is far more fascinated with the image of the author, that person who creates people out of thin air and smoke.  Auster delves into what the make-up of such a person may be, a person who's public character is defined by the artistic output, not by whom the author actually is.  Who the author actually may be, or what the author's opinion is as to his or her own writings, is not important.  It is a schizophrenic life, to be sure, and Auster knows it.  Are we defined by our inner monologue, or do our actions govern our identities?  Is who we purport to be as important as how we appear to be?<br />CITY OF GLASS is an excellent example of Auster's musings on this theme.  As Quinn slowly begins to develop his detective persona, he can feel his previous author persona begin to slip away.  By his inadvertent creation of a new persona, he erases his past; but as he was only really defined by his novels, it is a far easier task than it first appeared.  This culminates in an exploration of the inner workings of personal discovery that reminds me of nothing so much than Arthur C. Clarke's elliptical finale to 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY.<br />Is it environment, or public perception, or biology that determines what we turn out to be?  Auster interweaves this theme into all three of his novels.  The character of Stillman, in CITY OF GLASS, is so obsessed with this idea that he deprived his son of any form of contact, trying to discover the hidden, secret language of God.  Fanshawe, in THE LOCKED ROOM, is determined that he distance himself from what he was perceived to be, unwilling to accept anyone's characterization of his psyche.  Blue, in GHOSTS, discovers that what he fears the most is true, that his existence is his job; outside of that, nothing he thinks or feels has any effect.<br />Mind you, none of this would raise the themes above the quality of a academic treatise without Auster's remarkable writing ability.  While he may be loathe to be judged by his output, the fact remains that Auster can relate a story with the best of them.  His characters, while purposefully vague, still manage to create an empathy with the reader.  The quest for identity, that search for the ego, is a universally understandable topic.  Auster achieves the feat of simultaneously having the characters understand themselves at the same time that the reader does.  Any discussion of the past is irrelevant, it's the NOW that matters.  The author in THE LOCKED ROOM gradually understands this in his quest for the missing friend Fanshawe.  What he discovers about Fanshawe only serves to confuse.  Perhaps he was better off with his own personal memories, rather than try to incorporate the recollections of others.<br />Auster also realizes that one's opinions about a novel can differ from another's; it makes no difference.  What is important is what YOU thought, not what others may tell you to think.  The NEW YORK TRILOGY seems designed to provoke different responses, alternate beliefs as to what it all means.  I personally haven't been privy to such a possibility as to the ultimate meaning of a thing since witnessing Peter Greenaway's remarkable film THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER.  What does it all ultimately mean?  Who knows?  What's important is that it affected me, on a level I wasn't expecting.  It is a pleasant surprise.'s opinions about a novel can differ from another's; it makes no difference.  What is important is what YOU thought, not what others may tell you to think.  The NEW YORK TRILOGY seems designed to provoke different responses, alternate beliefs as to what it all means.  I personally haven't been privy to such a possibility as to the ultimate meaning of a thing since witnessing Peter Greenaway's remarkable film THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE AND HER LOVER.  What does it all ultimately mean?  Who knows?  What's important is that it affected me, on a level I wasn't expecting.  It is a pleasant surprise.	2001-08-23
US	52473945	R2RXVGJCZNWPOG	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A fine ending	What can be said about HANNIBAL that hasn't been said already?  Hannibal Lecter has become an instantly identifiable icon, an image of madness and insanity that the public has lapped up in droves.  His third appearance in fiction has as many detractors as rabid fans, arguing intensely over whether the book is true to what has happened previously, or whether it stains the memory of Lecter and his unusual relationship with FBI Agent Clarice Starling.  Jodie Foster, Starling's physical manisfestation in the movie version of THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, stated that she wouldn't reprise the role for HANNIBAL, seeing the novel as an insult to her perceptions of how Clarice would grow as a character.<br />Clearly, HANNIBAL is many things to many people.  But let's view it for what it is:  a horrific thrill-ride through the consciousness of a demon.  The only crime Thomas Harris commits is in delivering a product that people didn't expect.<br />HANNIBAL puts the infamous serial killer Hannibal 'The Cannibal' Lecter into the centre spotlight, after consigning him to a supporting role in the previous novels, RED DRAGON and LAMBS.  Enjoying his new-found freedom, he is slowly but relentlessly being pursued by Mason Verger;  a survivor of Lecter's assaults, and an individual even creepier and unforgivable than Lecter is.  Verger uses Starling as his pawn, reeling her along with the hope that Lecter will be unable to resist the bait.<br />The true flaw in HANNIBAL is that Harris takes for granted that the reader will know and understand the unusual relationship Lecter and Starling share.  It works as a sequel, but is unable to stand up as an achievement in its own right, unlike both DRAGON and LAMBS, pinacles of the serial killer genre.  This lessens the impact somewhat, as does his subplot involving the Barney the orderly, and Verger's body-building sister.  They are interesting characters, but aren't given enough character arc to fit in completely.<br />But Harris redeems himself with his presentation of Lecter's life outside the prison cell.  Lecter functions in the world quite well, attaining wealth and prestige through his not-inconsiderable intellect.  The web that Harris draws around Lecter, disparate elements slowly converging to encircle and capture Hannibal, is a rivetting display of skillful plotting.<br />Some have criticized the decision to reveal parts of Lecter's past, but these glimpses only heighten the mystique that surrounds him.  Harris is far more generous in his background to Verger, a malevolent creature of such despicable proportions that he could star in a novel of his own.  Harris follows his now-familiar technique of comparing monsters, displaying Verger in stark contrast to Lecter in the same manner as Francis Dollarhyde and Jame Gumb were presented in DRAGON and LAMBS, respectively.<br />Starling is also presented in a memorable light.  Far from being the idealistic young trainee of LAMBS, Starling is now a disgraced agent who is haunted by her past actions, both on the job and with Lecter.  She is completely at odds with her world, finding herself used and controlled both by Verger and Lecter, as well as certain elements of the FBI.  Her downfall, and eventual conclusion, adds a heart-breaking note to the chase.<br />And the ending.  Without spoiling the surprise, it is both unexpected, and fair to the characters, despite the uproar it caused.  I believe it is Harris's attempt to wrest control of the characters back to his domain.  Considering the immense pressures that were undoubtedly heaped upon Harris after the gigantic sucess of LAMBS (both as novel and film), a lesser artist would have merely given the public what they wanted.  Harris does something more:  he provides the audience with an ending that would silence those who make Lecter into a heroic figure.  Never losing sight of the fact that Hannibal is a monster, Harris plays off of Lecter's legend, leaving the reader unnerved.  It's the author's way ofscreaming, &quot;He's my character, not yours!  Now, back off!&quot;<br />And perhaps it's a blessing that HANNIBAL ends the way it does.  Harris is far too talented a writer to be constrained into writing sequels.  By laying Lecter to rest (in a manner of speaking), Harris can dive into new territories, surprising us in the same way that he caught us off guard with RED DRAGON.  Hannibal may be silent, but let's hope Harris refuses to remain so.f screaming, &quot;He's my character, not yours!  Now, back off!&quot;<br />And perhaps it's a blessing that HANNIBAL ends the way it does.  Harris is far too talented a writer to be constrained into writing sequels.  By laying Lecter to rest (in a manner of speaking), Harris can dive into new territories, surprising us in the same way that he caught us off guard with RED DRAGON.  Hannibal may be silent, but let's hope Harris refuses to remain so.	2001-08-10
US	52473945	R1KMOA4DB9YIB9	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Full-throtle horror	It is quite a pleasure, being scared.  While most people would argue this statement, claiming that being frightened is not pleasurable in the slightest, nevertheless it is true.  We go out of our way to be scared, either through literature and movies, or through the more visceral route of roller-coasters and bungee-jumping.  But within this ever-growing need for thrills lies a problem;  we are becoming inured to fright, becoming jaded by the horrific.  What was once terrifying is now mundane, or so the audiences of today would have us believe.  By remaining an arms length away from any emotional connection with the subject-matter, through a sort of ironic detatchment, we have become immune to the sheer thrill of what may lie beyond that door.  It's a shame, as Richard Matheson's HELL HOUSE is a novel that cries for the reader's rapt attention and suspension of disbelief.  If that can be achieved, then HELL HOUSE is a hell of a ride.<br />HELL HOUSE functions as a revved-up hounted house cousin to Shirley Jackson's THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE, taking Jackson's basic premise, and ratcheting up the adreneline.  Matheson presents the story as a scientific test of the paranormal, as four disparate characters take up residence inside the infamous Belasco house, united together by the lure of money, and the hope that the evil can be dispelled.  No time is wasted moving the story along, the characters entering the house in record time (page 12, I believe).  As the story progresses over four deeply disturbing days, the characters find themselves increasingly affected by whatever forces inhabit the house.  Florence, a medium, contacts the spirit of a young man who died within the walls.  Dr. Barrett is obsessed with finding a mechanical means of dispelling the force.  His wife, Edith, takes to sleepwalking.  And Fischer has personal demons to battle, as well;  he was the only survivor of a previous expedition.<br />Unlike Jackson's more sedate and internalized novel (the modern standard of haunted house stories), Matheson externalizes the horror in ever-increasing gruesomeness.  The walls of the house are riddled with visions of obscenities.  The manisfestations are decidedly physical, and unsubtle.  Matheson seems to have a high time rubbing the reader's nose in every unpleasantness, every degradation.  It is a testament to his skill as a writer that the reader never feels dirty afterwards.  This is vivid and gruesome writing, but it never becomes exploitative.  It sure teeters on the edge, though.<br />Matheson allows the story to flesh out the characters, their motivations and weaknesses slowly becoming apparent.  This is as it should be, as the house preys on such fallibilities.  And, as in the best novels of the genre, the house itself becomes a character, gradually revealing its weaknesses as well.  Much like the Overlook Hotel in Stephen King's THE SHINING (which owes a great deal of debt to HELL HOUSE), the Belasco house is an entity unto itself, with a history so disturbing that it would take up a few more novels to fully expose its character.  HELL HOUSE is not simply a series of events the human characters react to: it is alive, and wishes to remain so.<br />But unlike Matheson's I AM LEGEND, which completely re-imagines the vampire myth as an apocalyptic nightmare, HELL HOUSE does not re-invent the haunted house novel.  Unlike THE SHINING, it does not create a personal empathy with the reader through the downfall of its characters.  HELL HOUSE is an homage to the haunted house, adding modern sensibilities to the genre.  It raises the gore level and sexual content beyond that of previous attempts, which is a mixed blessing.  Matheson can sustain the story through his abilities as an author, but how many novels have been written since that present the reader with blood instead of scares, with guts in place of horror?<br />And perhaps that is a problem HELL HOUSE can't overcome. HELL HOUSE's scares, as pleasurable as they are, may not be able to overcome the jaded nature of today's audience, who prefer to view horror as 'camp'. I recall with dismay a recent viewing of the re-release of THE EXORCIST, and hearing many audience members laugh at particularly upsetting scenes.  HELL HOUSE requires a suspension of disbelief, a rare commodity these days; if that can be achieved, it becomes a frightening tale of terror, concerned with nothing so much as scaring the wits out of you.may not be able to overcome the jaded nature of today's audience, who prefer to view horror as 'camp'. I recall with dismay a recent viewing of the re-release of THE EXORCIST, and hearing many audience members laugh at particularly upsetting scenes.  HELL HOUSE requires a suspension of disbelief, a rare commodity these days; if that can be achieved, it becomes a frightening tale of terror, concerned with nothing so much as scaring the wits out of you.	2001-08-04
US	52473945	R18SR94RYB6CA8	0440235464	435881091	Lost Girls	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A moody and deeply personal legal thriller	I picked up a copy of Andrew Pyper's LOST GIRLS at a yard sale, for the unbelievably low price of a dollar.  The book jacket was covered with praise and accolades for Pyper's tale of murder and madness in northern Ontario, and I faintly remembered there being some buzz on the literary scene following its publication a few years ago. But I have had some bad experiences with book jacket blurbs as of late, and was cautious.<br />So, steeled against disappointment, I plunged ahead, and was fortunate to discover that my dollar had not gone to waste.  LOST GIRLS is a dark and moody thriller, a compulsive page-turner of high caliber.  But for a novel that presents itself as more of a John Grisham-type foray into shallowly-drawn characters and legal machinations, LOST GIRLS is almost the opposite, a heavily character-driven story that has far more to do with acceptance of one's own past actions than it does the courtroom.  LOST GIRLS is less a legal suspense story than it is a ghost story, where buried secrets threaten to overcome those unable to reconcile the past and the present.<br />LOST GIRLS follows the first murder case of Bartholomew Crane, a criminal defense attorney with few qualms about what needs to be done to successfully defend his clients.  He is summoned up to the remote northern Ontario town of Murdoch, where Thom Tripp has been charged with the murder of two young girls.  The drawback is, there are no bodies with which to confirm the murders, and anything that points to his client as a killer is circumstantial at best.  But despite this clearly winnable situation, Crane slowly finds himself doubting his reasons for wanting to defend Tripp.  Local superstition points towards the involvement of an angry spirit in the lake, and Crane begins to have sightings of things he cannot easily explain away.<br />Pyper has set himself a daunting task to perform, and has only added to the pressure by manufacturing his antagonist as an extremely unlikable character.  Crane is an impotent, cocaine-snorting mess of a man, a man not above outright lying in the pursuit of winning a case.  Any moral qualms he may have about what his clients have done pales in comparison to his almost fanatical devotion to winning.  But Pyper is careful not to judge his character; very often in criminal defence work, a moral qualm can only get in the way of providing the best possible defence as required by law.  Pyper understands this dichotomy, and it may be one of the reasons a reader might be displeased with the novel.  It is much easier to get behind a crusading warrior for good than a determined lawyer who understands that everyone is entitled to be thought innocent until proven guilty.  That is the law, and the way our society functions.  Pyper appreciates the stress this can put on a person, and acknowledges that sometimes the job can be arduous.<br />Pyper's strength in creating a story comes from his refusal to take the easy way out.  Instead of cheapening the plot by having a more crowd-pleasing conclusion (i.e., evil lawyer recognizes the serious vocational error he has made, and travels back from the dark side), Pyper gives us an inner journey of self-discovery.  What Crane slowly evolves into has nothing to do with a laypersons one-sided view of morality and the law, and everything to do with atoning for the sins and regrets of past exploits.<br />Pyper's addition of a ghost story to the mix is one of his only missteps.  While it does much to establish an atmosphere of dread, it never seems fully resolved.  Crane's frequent forays to the lakeside become increasingly bizarre, and loaded with coincidence.  It serves to fuel the plot, but it's incomplete, unfocused.  And Crane and Tripp's final meeting is presented in such a way as to drain any tension from the story.  It's an ending, but it feels rushed.  And Crane's legal superiors, Lyle and Gederov, are caricatures of the worst sort; one-dimensional criminal lawyers who represent the most basic stereotype of the immoral lawyer.  They allow Crane to see what he may become, but they don't belong in the same story, and do disservice to Pyper's obvious talents.<br />But minor quibbles aside, LOST GIRLS is a fine, unpredictable thriller. And in that small sub-genre of novels set in northern Ontario, this surely must rank as one of the best.asic stereotype of the immoral lawyer.  They allow Crane to see what he may become, but they don't belong in the same story, and do disservice to Pyper's obvious talents.<br />But minor quibbles aside, LOST GIRLS is a fine, unpredictable thriller. And in that small sub-genre of novels set in northern Ontario, this surely must rank as one of the best.	2001-07-29
US	52473945	R2XIRPSRUQRUGO	0786889004	47168285	Dixie City Jam	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Finely tuned evocation of crime in the Big Easy	It can be a terrible thing for the avid reader to discover the works of an already established and prolific author.  If the author is not to the reader's taste, no problem exists; if, however, the author's work grabs the reader by the throat and refuses to let go, the reader is faced with the daunting task of reading everything else the author has written.  Such is the case with James Lee Burke and his series of Dave Robicheaux novels; while I already have a sizable list of novels on my summer reading list, I am forced, after reading DIXIE CITY JAM, to seek out more of Burke's mystery novels.<br />DIXIE is set in and around the city of New Orleans (always a vivid setting for an atmospheric mystery).  Dave Robicheaux is a detective with the Sheriff's Office who is juggling many balls at once.  In addition to his police duties, he has been hired to locate a WW II U-boat that was sunk in local waters many years ago.  He also has the added predicament of helping out his old comrade Clete Purcel stay alive as he constantly and foolishly aggravates local crime figures Max and Bobo Calucci.  But things come to a head when he finds himself warding off the unwelcome advances of Will Buchalter, an enormous neo-Nazi who's ultimate motives for terrorizing Robicheaux's family remain frighteningly obscure.<br />Clearly, Burke has no problem with handling many different plot threads.  The narrative leaps from element to element; an ailing gangster who wishes to make amends; a young man who is trying to become more than be believes he can be; an interrogation scene that will make the reader squirm.  His management of these disparate elements is so skillful, so loaded with portent, that the eventual solution to Robicheaux's many dilemmas comes off as anti-climactic.  In the genre of crime writing, perhaps only James Ellroy can be trusted to pull together myriad subplots into a satisfactory conclusion.  But that doesn't mean it's not a travel worth taking.  Burke shows a genuine flair for capturing the idioms of New Orleans speech; it may not be authentic, but in relation to the story, it is vital and alive.  What may come across as precocious and obtrusive in a lesser writer is transformed in Burke's hands into true characterization and ambiance.  The native patois becomes integral to the novel's success at presenting New Orleans as a character, rather than a setting.<br />Burke has crafted a marvelous variety of characters to inhabit his world.  Robicheaux is a hero firmly entrenched in the classic detective mode, an honourable man, tough yet tender, who operates with one eye towards justice, and the other towards his own inner demons.  Clete is an absurdly erratic yet loyal companion, a man who cannot control his own impulses, even at the risk of self-destruction.  And among the wide diversity of supporting characters, none is more frightening or memorable than Buchalter, a creation of monstrous proportions.  He is among the creepiest of psychopaths I can ever remember meeting in print, a pleasure/pain lover with severe racist overtones, a genuinely despicable monster with no redeeming qualities.  It takes real craftsmanship to construct a portrait of evil so convincingly.<br />As I said, the ending, coming after multiple storylines involving mobsters, anti-Semitism, corrupt cops and blatant racism, seems a letdown.  It wraps up the story convincingly, but perhaps it's a testament to Burke's abilities that it seems a shame to end the tale.  As in all the great mysteries, Burke creates a world unto itself, rife with passion and rage.  That the mystery can be solved at all is secondary to the people who inhabit the world.  Burke's New Orleans is a dangerous place, a jungle of seething violence and corruption, a site on par with Ellroy's Los Angeles and Ian Rankin's Edinburgh.  One can only hope his further explorations into Dave Robicheaux's universe remain as entertaining.r for capturing the idioms of New Orleans speech; it may not be authentic, but in relation to the story, it is vital and alive.  What may come across as precocious and obtrusive in a lesser writer is transformed in Burke's hands into true characterization and ambiance.  The native patois becomes integral to the novel's success at presenting New Orleans as a character, rather than a setting.<br />Burke has crafted a marvelous variety of characters to inhabit his world.  Robicheaux is a hero firmly entrenched in the classic detective mode, an honourable man, tough yet tender, who operates with one eye towards justice, and the other towards his own inner demons.  Clete is an absurdly erratic yet loyal companion, a man who cannot control his own impulses, even at the risk of self-destruction.  And among the wide diversity of supporting characters, none is more frightening or memorable than Buchalter, a creation of monstrous proportions.  He is among the creepiest of psychopaths I can ever remember meeting in print, a pleasure/pain lover with severe racist overtones, a genuinely despicable monster with no redeeming qualities.  It takes real craftsmanship to construct a portrait of evil so convincingly.<br />As I said, the ending, coming after multiple storylines involving mobsters, anti-Semitism, corrupt cops and blatant racism, seems a letdown.  It wraps up the story convincingly, but perhaps it's a testament to Burke's abilities that it seems a shame to end the tale.  As in all the great mysteries, Burke creates a world unto itself, rife with passion and rage.  That the mystery can be solved at all is secondary to the people who inhabit the world.  Burke's New Orleans is a dangerous place, a jungle of seething violence and corruption, a site on par with Ellroy's Los Angeles and Ian Rankin's Edinburgh.  One can only hope his further explorations into Dave Robicheaux's universe remain as entertaining.	2001-06-17
US	52473945	RZC6HIYEX0K7C	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A welcome return to the horrors of old	How many novels has Stephen King written by now?  Twenty-five?  Thirty?  I lost count around the time he published DESPERATION and THE REGULATORS at the same time, but let's face it, it's a lot.  After such a long time, it is only natural that an author's output might begin to feel a tad familiar to the reader.  The stories may change, but the style is the same.  And when the stories themselves start to feel similar, it is usually a sign that the author should consider retirement.<br />But what a relief it is to find that King has not lost his edge.  DREAMCATCHER may be somewhat recycled in theme and tone from his earlier works, but King has not lost the knack to tell a good story.  And after his less terrifying publications BAG OF BONES, THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, and HEARTS IN ATLANTIS, it is comforting to discover that King has also not lost the knack to pen a truly gruesome scene, and go for full-bore horror.<br />DREAMCATCHER follows a group of four childhood friends, Henry, Jonesy, Beav, and Pete, now adults enjoying their yearly hunting trip in Maine.  In the past, they shared an unusual bond with a severely mentally challenged boy, whose friendship continues to affect their lives in unusual ways.  When the men discover a lost hunter apparently suffering from a gastro-intestinal affliction, they are thrust into a plot involving government conspiracies, telepathy, and little gray men, all of which may be linked to their childhood experiences.<br />There is a large feeling of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu in the proceedings, as King creates a story that would seem to be very much at home as an episode of television's X-FILES, or as a sequel to his previous alien saga, THE TOMMYKNOCKERS.  But simply because a story lacks a certain originality does not ruin the fun to be had in the telling.  King once again proves his innate ability to manufacture believable characters coping with incredible situations.  His opening chapter, presenting the reader with one past event in each of the four men's lives, ranks among the best of King's writings, succinctly and deftly capturing the disparate natures of the four individuals.  King's evocations of childhood (always a staple of his novels) are, as usual, stirring and well-drawn, and King does a fine job at weaving the past with the present, using the innocent boyhood events of the past as a counter-point to the far more gruesome happenings of the present.  And as King slowly but surely reveals the curious bond the boys share, the actions of the present take on added significance.<br />King's major failing in DREAMCATCHER is his choice of villain.  The tyrannical military freak Kurtz is far too one-dimensional, a gung-ho G.I. Joe with very little background.  When you compare him to the well-rounded antagonists of ROSE MADDER and SALEM'S LOT, Kurtz's superficiality is quite distressing.  King fares far better with Mr. Gray, an entity who takes up residence within the mind of Jonesy.  Mr. Gray, a presence with no personality besides that which it takes from Jonesy, enters into an intriguing battle of wits, as Gray tries to implement his plan, and Jonesy erects a warehouse within his mind to shield himself from Gray's invasion.  King's presentation of the warring factions within one mind is almost as absorbing as the similar synthesis of two personalities within one body found in Clive Barker's EVERVILLE.<br />As well, King makes a long-overdue comeback to the orchestrated gore of his earlier novels.  His last few stories, while never less than entertaining, have given his fondness for horror a backseat to more 'mature' stories.  King is a fine writer, but he works best when he goes back to his roots.  DREAMCATCHER is not a classic; it has too many unexplained ambiguities and coincidences to establish it as such.  But it is a fast-paced entertainment as only King can provide.  Some may wish to discuss the deeper implications of his stories, but not I, not now.  King has created another terrific nail-biter, and that's enough for me.<br />POSTSCRIPT:  In his afterward, King explains how he originally intended to title the book CANCER, but was convinced to change it.  Having read the novel, I must respectfully disagree with his choice.  CANCER is a far more foreboding and emotionally charged title, and creates an immediate apprehension in the reader that the title DREAMCATCHER is simply unable to match.er, and that's enough for me.<br />POSTSCRIPT:  In his afterward, King explains how he originally intended to title the book CANCER, but was convinced to change it.  Having read the novel, I must respectfully disagree with his choice.  CANCER is a far more foreboding and emotionally charged title, and creates an immediate apprehension in the reader that the title DREAMCATCHER is simply unable to match.	2001-06-02
US	52473945	RMERMBVNMKD2I	1573225290	726947138	Tintin in the New World	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Interesting, sometimes brilliant, more often disappointing	An updating of the TINTIN mythos would seem to be an ideal subject for a novel.  After all, Tintin, in his cartoon incarnation, has always been the consummate adventurer, traveling the world in search of criminal activities, international intrigue, and bizarre villains.  His stories should be required reading for the young, and the opportunity to visit Tintin in a new format is well nigh irresistible.<br />What a disappointment, then, that TINTIN IN THE NEW WORLD is less than enthralling.  Frederic Tuten has presented the reader with a conflicted Tintin, a confused man-boy who has so far been unable to grow as a person.  While this dilemma is always an interesting literary path, Tuten, despite a true talent for a well-turned phrase, cannot bring all the elements together to a cohesive whole.<br />The story begins as Tintin, along with his faithful dog Snowy and his old companion Captain Haddock, is sent to Machu Picchu on a vaguely defined mission.  Once there, they meet several characters from author Thomas Mann's THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN.  (Not having read MOUNTAIN, I cannot comment on Tuten's reinterpretation, but they do seem to be a deeply enlightened group of people)  Tintin then begins a journey he has never traveled before, a trek into self-enlightenment, as he finds himself falling in love, taking a life, and becoming a being who is 'more' than he was.<br />Clearly, this is not the Tintin of old.  Tuten has reinvented him as a classically tortured soul, desperate to find the meaning behind his exploits.  But Tuten never finds an acceptable middle ground between the old and the new.  He counts on the reader having a previous knowledge of Tintin, rather than coming upon the novel uninformed.  But, despite what the book jacket would have us believe the uninitiated will not understand who Tintin is at all.  He is not clearly defined as a character, which will confuse the newcomer, and irritate the fan.  And his eventual rebirth as a man and possible messianic figure comes completely out of left field.<br />There are many fine points to be discovered within the novel's pages.  Tintin's extended dream that occurs after his first sexual experience is a truly astonishing exploration of his psyche.  It is lyrical, brave, and romantic.  It stands alone and independent of the whole, which is TINTIN's greatest failing.  It has so many good moments, that it is all the more disappointing in its ultimate failure.  It is a courageous attempt of a novel, worth reading despite its eventual collapse under its own weight.comes completely out of left field.<br />There are many fine points to be discovered within the novel's pages.  Tintin's extended dream that occurs after his first sexual experience is a truly astonishing exploration of his psyche.  It is lyrical, brave, and romantic.  It stands alone and independent of the whole, which is TINTIN's greatest failing.  It has so many good moments, that it is all the more disappointing in its ultimate failure.  It is a courageous attempt of a novel, worth reading despite its eventual collapse under its own weight.	2001-05-25
US	52473945	R3HBQNRH8WHDTB	0449210685	33908998	The Great Escape	Books	3	26	45	N	N	Great story, weak presentation	It's a rare thing indeed to discover a movie adaptation is actually better than the book that inspired it, but here it is:  Paul Brickhill's THE GREAT ESCAPE is a great plot with no characters to speak of.<br />Brickhill gives a firsthand account of the escape of 76 men from Sagan, a German prisoner-of-war camp, during World War II.  Through tireless efforts and disheartening setbacks, the men managed to dig a lengthy tunnel 30 feet down into the earth, and 300 feet towards possible freedom.  The plan, which originally called for three such tunnels, was the single largest escape in WWII history, and the efforts, patience, and bravery of the men  secures their escape as one of the most noble efforts of man.<br />What a pity, then, that THE GREAT ESCAPE is a fairly badly written first-hand narrative, related with all the style of a person making a grocery list.  Brickhill has provided the bones of an amazing story, but he neglected to provide any meat along with them.<br />The story couldn't help but lend itself to a fascinating read.  The actions of these men could never be anything less than remarkable.  But all Brickhill does is tell the story.  He doesn't add any true characterization to the hundreds of people who pop in and out, resulting in a lack of empathy for these men.  The reader is left wanting to know more, but is frustratingly denied the opportunity.  Even the leader, Roger Bushell, is a cipher, easily interchangeable with any other character.<br />It is easy to see why this story makes such fertile ground for a movie.  The plot is astonishing, and the complete absence of any true personality leaves the filmmakers free to make up any character they want.  Roger Bushell didn't escape from Sagan, Richard Attenborough did.  So did Steve McQueen and Charles Bronson.<br />I don't want to seem as if I am making light of the situation.  THE GREAT ESCAPE was a shining example of what humanity can achieve under the most strenuous circumstances.  But Brickhill doesn't provide us with any reason to care.  The story unfolds with all the excitement and tension of someone telling of their day at work.  Simplicity in storytelling can be a fine thing, but not where the story demands so much more.oesn't provide us with any reason to care.  The story unfolds with all the excitement and tension of someone telling of their day at work.  Simplicity in storytelling can be a fine thing, but not where the story demands so much more.	2001-04-27
US	52473945	R1WG7FU8UMDJN1	0380973081	532586621	Dust	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Crichton-esque Eco Thriller with Far More Brains	Let's face it, not every novel can be considered 'literature'.  Sometimes, no matter how much steak you can find, you just want a hamburger.  But there are hamburgers, and then there are hamburgers.  And Charles Pellegrino's eco-thriller DUST fits the bill nicely, in an intriguing and exciting mix of science and conjecture that, if not exactly high art, at least puts the novels of Michael Crichton to shame.<br />DUST surrounds the ecological nightmare that may develop were the earth's insect population to die out practically overnight.  As scientist Richard Sinclair and his team desperately endeavour to find a solution, the ecological impacts begin to be felt around the globe, and the true importance of the insect world's relationship to humanity becomes apparent.  Animals begins to wreak havoc, forests begin to die out, and the worst instincts of man rise to the forefront.<br />While DUST may not win awards for its writing, it does manage to create tension, as well as reward the reader with an interesting take on an unusual situation.  As Pellegrino combines scientific theory and facts within his fictional scenario, he creates an often unsettling portrait of environmental disaster that lingers in the mind well after the last page.  This may not be a likely or probable scenario, but when one considers the actual declining state of the environment, the implications of the novel take on a new level of frightening possibility.  Some may cling to the idea that humanity will rise above its petty problems to combat environmental destruction, but the scapegoating and terror that result in DUST are far more probable outcomes.<br />Even if the reader does not care for a thought-provoking hypothesis into the eventual end of existence, DUST is still an exciting read.  It has characters more interesting than Crichton's usual fare of one-dimensional cartoons, and it has scenes of real horror, and hope.  It deserves mention alongside Frank Herberts's THE GREEN BRAIN, his oft-neglected masterpiece of insect revolt.  But DUST deserves mention as taking a more realistic approach to the theme, unlike Herbert's more fanciful novel.ected masterpiece of insect revolt.  But DUST deserves mention as taking a more realistic approach to the theme, unlike Herbert's more fanciful novel.	2001-04-05
US	52473945	R2U0V0YUAWIOSN	0380789175	154562288	The Crook Factory	Books	3	5	7	N	N	John Le Carre Lite	I am afraid to admit it, but Ernest Hemingway has never really held my attention as he does most people's.  His writing style is fine, and his stories are interesting, but for some reason, he has never entered the ranks of my favorite authors.  But I also admit, his personal life was truly interesting.<br />In this way, I can relate to Joe Lucas, the protagonist of Dan Simmons THE CROOK FACTORY.  Lucas is an FBI agent who has little use of 'make-believe' books, but when he is assigned the task of joining a counter-espionage group headed by Hemingway himself in 1940's Cuba, he finds the real Hemingway to be far more intriguing than Lucas would have at first believed.<br />THE CROOK FACTORY, as Simmons states in his afterward, is a fictionalization of real events.  Apparently, Hemingway did try to start such a group, and some higher-ups such as J. Edgar Hoover took it more seriously than I would have guessed.  While the plot may be fictitious, Simmons has gone to admirable lengths to link actual happenings to his story, including authentic transcripts of FBI files, and reprints of WWII German code books and maps.  Clearly, Simmons has done his homework.<br />But despite this, THE CROOK FACTORY never really comes together to a satisfying whole.  It moves along with speed and grace, and Simmons' has not lost his knack for creating memorable characters and exciting action.  While his past efforts have been mostly horror and science-fiction, his genuine talent for rich characterization serves him well in the suspense genre.  His evocation of Hemingway starts off a little rough, but it gradually develops into far more than the traditional stereotype of the author as a hard-loving, hard-drinking, hard brawlin' SOB.  Simmons presents Hemingway with real depth, as an artist who constantly tries to live life to the fullest, because that's the only way art can be created.  And Lucas is a show-stopper of a character, a spy who remains mysterious up to the end.  He seems likeable, but as the story progresses, his actions unveil a man who will do whatever it takes to fulfill his mission, even if the mission no longer exists.  He does some remarkably nasty things, and the dual nature of his existence would make him a natural for a John Le Carre novel.<br />But despite such promise, THE CROOK FACTORY ultimately fails, possibly because Simmons is so intent on sticking to the facts.  Had he freed himself up with a more 'fictitious' plot, the novel might have become more than the sum of its parts.  But Simmons sticks to his guns, and thus saddles the reader with innumerable secondary characters who never become more than words on the page.  The 'agents' of Hemingway's group are mere ciphers, and complicate the plot by their fundamental interchagability.  And Simmons' introductions of other real people draw attention from the story, rather than push it along.  Look, it's Ingrid Bergman!  Gary Cooper!  Marlene Dietrich!  Only the presence of author Ian Fleming seems appropriate, as his WWII exploits in Britain lend themselves to the story.<br />In the end, THE CROOK FACTORY is pleasing entertainment, but not much more.  Simmons has envisioned terrific characters who deserve more than this slighty weary tale of submarine hunting and the in-fighting of various spy organizations.  When Simmons centres on events that are clearly products of his own imagination, the tale comes to life (Lucas's interrogation of a suspect is a highlight, and the ending is very touching).  But as the real facts of WWII come forth, the story dies on the page.<br />(As a side note, please read Simmon's SUMMER OF NIGHT, a novel of childhood fears and horror that deserves to be seen as an equal to Stephen King's IT.), but as the story progresses, his actions unveil a man who will do whatever it takes to fulfill his mission, even if the mission no longer exists.  He does some remarkably nasty things, and the dual nature of his existence would make him a natural for a John Le Carre novel.<br />But despite such promise, THE CROOK FACTORY ultimately fails, possibly because Simmons is so intent on sticking to the facts.  Had he freed himself up with a more 'fictitious' plot, the novel might have become more than the sum of its parts.  But Simmons sticks to his guns, and thus saddles the reader with innumerable secondary characters who never become more than words on the page.  The 'agents' of Hemingway's group are mere ciphers, and complicate the plot by their fundamental interchagability.  And Simmons' introductions of other real people draw attention from the story, rather than push it along.  Look, it's Ingrid Bergman!  Gary Cooper!  Marlene Dietrich!  Only the presence of author Ian Fleming seems appropriate, as his WWII exploits in Britain lend themselves to the story.<br />In the end, THE CROOK FACTORY is pleasing entertainment, but not much more.  Simmons has envisioned terrific characters who deserve more than this slighty weary tale of submarine hunting and the in-fighting of various spy organizations.  When Simmons centres on events that are clearly products of his own imagination, the tale comes to life (Lucas's interrogation of a suspect is a highlight, and the ending is very touching).  But as the real facts of WWII come forth, the story dies on the page.<br />(As a side note, please read Simmon's SUMMER OF NIGHT, a novel of childhood fears and horror that deserves to be seen as an equal to Stephen King's IT.)	2001-04-01
US	52473945	RG2SBLDXLGMBR	0679758860	642454765	Sleeping With Extra-Terrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Rationality is a rare commodity	Many people would admit to a certain scepticism when it comes to religions or beliefs other than their own.  For some, the mere idea that another person's point-of-view is equally valid to their own would be seen as ludicrous, even blasphemous.  But Wendy Kaminer posesses no such qualms.  She fully realizes that every belief system has inherent illogic qualities.  What she can't understand is why others have a hard time when it comes to a rational discussion on the topic.<br />SLEEPING WITH EXTRA-TERRESTRIALS is Kaminer's ode to the irrational, a witty and incisive commentary on irrational beliefs of all kinds.  Not merely content to stick to established religions, Kaminer examines New-Age Mysticism, Reincarnation, Feminine Intuition, Self-Help Books, Repressed Memories, and Cyberspace.  What she discovers, at times, can be alarming.<br />In a series of essays, Kaminer disects the recent North American trend to believe ANYTHING.  In researching healers, mystics, and gurus, Kaminer presents the reader with one simple truth:  If someone says something sincerely enough, or loud enough, we will believe it, no questions asked.  If someone has talked to angels, we believe it.  If someone has a repressed memory of child abuse, we believe it.  If someone has talked to the spirits of our ancestors, we believe it.  All without one single shred of evidence of any kind.<br />Kaminer does not dump on religion.  She fully realizes the value a belief system can provide the average individual.  But the apparent willingness of the public to adhere to anyone who proclaims something forceful enough can be an eye-opening experience.<br />In one precise example, she cites a 'study' presented by Pat Robertson, which showed that the crime rate in America has risen steadily ever since prayer was removed from public schools.  That, Mr. Robertson proclaims, is proof positive that a lack of prayer in school leads to criminal activity.  The flaw in this logic, as Kaminer astutely points out, is that the crime has also been on the rise ever since man first walked on the moon.  Therefore, space travel has directly contributed to the rising crime rate.  The ease with which the public accepts one statement without any thought to alternatives is frightening.<br />Kaminer is simply saying, &quot;Ask questions.&quot;  Don't be content to blithely follow the teachings of someone without examining that person first.  Rationality is in ever decreasing supply these days, as people are more and more prone to 'jump on the bandwagon' of anything presented with apparent authority.  In her section on 'Junk Science', Kaminer exposes the irrationality of scientists as well, who jumped aboard the 'Cold Fusion' debate, despite the fact that no hard evidence was ever provided.  Simply seeing it on television was enough to convince scores of people that cold fusion (a pipe-dream) had been created.  In another very telling moment, Kaminer tells of how she was greeted with boos and hisses on a talk show, when she asserted that a father who yells at a child is not the same thing as a father who assaults a child.  Despite no evidence being presented, the audience would rather agree with the 'victim', rather than think it through.<br />Kaminer may be preaching to the choir.  While her presentation is a breath of fresh air for some, there are others who would not see the value in this book, dismissing it as mere nonsense, or hatred.  But of course, those who would be quick to dismiss the book without reading it, are precisely the sorts of individuals that Kaminer is writing about.  Think about that.s that the crime has also been on the rise ever since man first walked on the moon.  Therefore, space travel has directly contributed to the rising crime rate.  The ease with which the public accepts one statement without any thought to alternatives is frightening.<br />Kaminer is simply saying, &quot;Ask questions.&quot;  Don't be content to blithely follow the teachings of someone without examining that person first.  Rationality is in ever decreasing supply these days, as people are more and more prone to 'jump on the bandwagon' of anything presented with apparent authority.  In her section on 'Junk Science', Kaminer exposes the irrationality of scientists as well, who jumped aboard the 'Cold Fusion' debate, despite the fact that no hard evidence was ever provided.  Simply seeing it on television was enough to convince scores of people that cold fusion (a pipe-dream) had been created.  In another very telling moment, Kaminer tells of how she was greeted with boos and hisses on a talk show, when she asserted that a father who yells at a child is not the same thing as a father who assaults a child.  Despite no evidence being presented, the audience would rather agree with the 'victim', rather than think it through.<br />Kaminer may be preaching to the choir.  While her presentation is a breath of fresh air for some, there are others who would not see the value in this book, dismissing it as mere nonsense, or hatred.  But of course, those who would be quick to dismiss the book without reading it, are precisely the sorts of individuals that Kaminer is writing about.  Think about that.	2001-03-28
US	52473945	R2HNW09SNH70AA	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	35	43	N	N	Mathematics never looked so exciting	CRYPTONOMICON, written by Neal Stephenson, is a big book. Big.  BIG.  Bordering on HUGE.  It has innumerable characters, enough plot to fill several books, and a theme that is presented in such exhaustive detail at some points that the reader has to lie down for awhile to absorb it all.  It is a BIG book.<br />Thank God it's also funny.<br />Besides being an in-depth look at the world of hackers, cryptography, modern-day treasure hunters, World War II, tunnel digging, espionage, and more;  Besides ALL that, CRYPTONOMICON may very well be the funniest book I've read since THE HITCHHIKERS GUIDE TO THE GALAXY.<br />Basically, Stepehenson follows two plot lines.  In the first, he follows Lawrence Waterhouse, mathematician extrordinaire, as he becomes a foremost expert on the subject of code-making and code-breaking.  Considering the usefullness of this gift, he is a) recruited as a code-breaker for the United States during World War II, b) sent to far off countires with names spelled without the use of vowels, and c) becomes a pioneer in the creation of the digital computer.<br />In the second plot line, Stephenson follows Randy Waterhouse, Lawrence's grandson, who is involved in setting up a 'data haven', whereby sensitive material from any source can be safely stored, for a price.  But he soon becomes embroiled in a) the legal machinations of a billionaire known only as the Dentist, b) a scheme to create his own electronic currency, and c) a mad rush to dig up a Nipponese gold stash that has remained hidden since World War II.<br />Whew.<br />Obviously, CRYPTONOMICON is not to everyone's taste.  It demands a great deal of patience, as Stephenson spends a large amount of time explaining the background and inner workings of computers, and code-breaking.  However, Stephenson manages the near impossible;  he creates excitement out of the most tedious technical explanations.  I have read entire novels not half as interesting or suspenseful as Stephenson's desciption of the mathematics of a particular form of cryptography.<br />But Stephenson is not merely content to explain codes, he explains EVERYTHING:  the ideal method of consuming Cap'n Crunch cereal;  how to equally divide up an inheritance;  how nitrogen bubbles are created in the bloodstream;  and so on.  Half the pleasure in Stephenson's work (and it IS a pleasure) is wondering where the next digression is going to come from, or from what new angle he'll approach a scenario.  Stephenson is not a man lacking for ideas.  In lesser hands, this could all seem quite precious and smug, but Stephenson never condescends.  And if you don't understand the concepts, it doesn't matter, the novel still works without one-hundred-percent comprehension.<br />Ideas aside, CRYPTONOMICON is still a splendid read.  With literally hundreds of characters, Stephenson manages to keep each one of them distinct, and his interwoven time lines are remarkable in their clarity.  The ending seems a letdown, but how could it not be?  After 900 pages, anything less than nuclear annihilation would be somewhat disappointing.<br />And, as I mentioned, it is often VERY funny.  Laugh-out-loud funny, which I find very rare in a novel.  And even if I absolutely hated CRYPTONOMICON (which I assuredly do not), I would still love his ten page digression into Lawrence Waterhouse's love life, as Lawrence tries to define his increasing loneliness and lust as a mathematical construct, including charts and graphs and equations.  After that, I'd follow him anywhere.mathematics of a particular form of cryptography.<br />But Stephenson is not merely content to explain codes, he explains EVERYTHING:  the ideal method of consuming Cap'n Crunch cereal;  how to equally divide up an inheritance;  how nitrogen bubbles are created in the bloodstream;  and so on.  Half the pleasure in Stephenson's work (and it IS a pleasure) is wondering where the next digression is going to come from, or from what new angle he'll approach a scenario.  Stephenson is not a man lacking for ideas.  In lesser hands, this could all seem quite precious and smug, but Stephenson never condescends.  And if you don't understand the concepts, it doesn't matter, the novel still works without one-hundred-percent comprehension.<br />Ideas aside, CRYPTONOMICON is still a splendid read.  With literally hundreds of characters, Stephenson manages to keep each one of them distinct, and his interwoven time lines are remarkable in their clarity.  The ending seems a letdown, but how could it not be?  After 900 pages, anything less than nuclear annihilation would be somewhat disappointing.<br />And, as I mentioned, it is often VERY funny.  Laugh-out-loud funny, which I find very rare in a novel.  And even if I absolutely hated CRYPTONOMICON (which I assuredly do not), I would still love his ten page digression into Lawrence Waterhouse's love life, as Lawrence tries to define his increasing loneliness and lust as a mathematical construct, including charts and graphs and equations.  After that, I'd follow him anywhere.	2001-03-20
US	52473945	R16J4KX4NCMPWN	0743417321	659759443	Cabal	Books	5	49	54	N	N	We are all monsters	Monsters have always played a large part in our collective subconscious.  They lurk in shadows, under beds, at the ends of dark alleys.  Monsters are always with us, in one form or another.  Clive Barker realizes this.  And Barker also realizes that sometimes, the monster we don't know is far more preferable than the ones we do.<br />CABAL is Barker's ode to the monster, not as a fearsome predator that only lives to destroy, but as a misunderstood creature that is alternatively loathed and envied.  We despise the monster, because we wish to be one ourselves.<br />Boone is a young man who is teetering on the brink of insanity.  While he has been getting treatment under the watchful guise of Dr. Decker, he is still far from unsure that he is well.  And when Decker declaims Boone as a subconscious serial killer, with eleven confirmed victims under his belt, Boone decides that his only option is to find Midian, the place where the monsters play.  What Boone discovers is an underworld of loneliness and despair, as the monsters of the world attempt to live their lives in peace, uninterrupted by the insanity of humankind.<br />Barker has always had a, shall we say, fondness for the darker impulses of man.  In his BOOKS OF BLOOD series, and his novels THE HELLBOUND HEART and THE DAMNATION GAME, he presents the readers with individuals who truly live their lives on the edge, daring life, limb, and soul to satisfy their primal yearnings.  In Boone, Barker has created another unsatisfied loner who craves acceptance, believing he cannot function in normal society.  Barker understands the human heart, and isn't afraid to admit that not all desires are the same.  But just because one person's desires may differ from another's, does not necessarily make that person wrong.  It's all a matter of persepctive.<br />Barker plays this need of Boone for a family off his other two main characters, Lori and Decker.  Lori, like Boone, also cries out for her desires to be sated.  She desires Boone.  And in a very touching love story, Lori proceeds to travel the paths of Hell in order to be with him.<br />Dr. Decker's needs are also front and centre, but his needs are admittedly not of the same vein as Boone and Lori's.  Without giving too much away, Decker's needs are far more primal than Boone's, and more insidious in their rationality.  Boone wants a family.  Decker wants no more families, ever.  Decker, rather than the monster-lover Boone, is the real evil, the calm that masks the storm.<br />But monsters are monsters, first and foremost.  Barker is one of the more unusually vivid purveyors of the human condition, and his tale leaps from one grotesque to the next.  CABAL contains some truly stomach-turning scenes, which is to Barker's credit.  While he sympathizes with the monster, he knows that the monster must be true to itself in order to be complete.  Like humankind, a monster must accept what it is in order to survive.  And what a monster is, is a monster.  And Barker does not shy away from the blood, gore, and vivisections that invariably follow such a creature.<br />Part of what has always made Barker such an interesting writer is his mixing of the profane with the sacred, his ability to juxtapose the horrible with the holy.  In his stories, men find redemption as monsters.  The evil are rarely punished, and the innocent cannot be allowed to survive.  And somtimes, love can cross the boundary between life and death.  CABAL is possibly the closest Barker could ever get to writing a flat-out romance novel.  Boone and Lori go through the pits of Hell to be with each other.  They travel the battlefield of the final confrontation between man and his demons.  In the end, it doesn't matter who the monsters are; we are all monsters.  How we come to accept it is what makes us human.Boone.  And in a very touching love story, Lori proceeds to travel the paths of Hell in order to be with him.<br />Dr. Decker's needs are also front and centre, but his needs are admittedly not of the same vein as Boone and Lori's.  Without giving too much away, Decker's needs are far more primal than Boone's, and more insidious in their rationality.  Boone wants a family.  Decker wants no more families, ever.  Decker, rather than the monster-lover Boone, is the real evil, the calm that masks the storm.<br />But monsters are monsters, first and foremost.  Barker is one of the more unusually vivid purveyors of the human condition, and his tale leaps from one grotesque to the next.  CABAL contains some truly stomach-turning scenes, which is to Barker's credit.  While he sympathizes with the monster, he knows that the monster must be true to itself in order to be complete.  Like humankind, a monster must accept what it is in order to survive.  And what a monster is, is a monster.  And Barker does not shy away from the blood, gore, and vivisections that invariably follow such a creature.<br />Part of what has always made Barker such an interesting writer is his mixing of the profane with the sacred, his ability to juxtapose the horrible with the holy.  In his stories, men find redemption as monsters.  The evil are rarely punished, and the innocent cannot be allowed to survive.  And somtimes, love can cross the boundary between life and death.  CABAL is possibly the closest Barker could ever get to writing a flat-out romance novel.  Boone and Lori go through the pits of Hell to be with each other.  They travel the battlefield of the final confrontation between man and his demons.  In the end, it doesn't matter who the monsters are; we are all monsters.  How we come to accept it is what makes us human.	2001-03-19
US	52473945	R312SZY1MADWJR	0679603069	680934194	The World According to Garp (Modern Library)	Books	5	109	117	N	N	In the words of T.S. Garp, &quot;We are all terminal cases.&quot;	I first read THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP in 1982, the year the movie adaptation came out.  I was a great fan of Robin Williams (MORK &amp; MINDY still being on television at the time), and because I was far too young to view the film, I decided to read its source novel.  Actually, I did an oral report on it, much to the chagrin of my 6th grade teacher.  It's hard to do an oral report when the rest of the class is awestruck at the use of the word 'bastard'.  I did very well, but the teacher did recommend that I stick to less challenging works, considering my age.  Thankfully, I did not listen.<br />In the many times I have reread GARP since, I have never failed to be struck dumb by the sheer elegance and beauty, not to mention brutality, of John Irving's novel.  While Irving's writing have too often been described as 'Dickensian', it is truly an accurate summation.  Irving presents a family saga rife with bizarre yet realistic characters, all swirling around what very well may the finest character put to paper in the 20th century, T.S. Garp.<br />Garp is the bastard son (there's that word again) of Jenny Fields, a sometimes nurse and headmistress, who doesn't believe in anyone but herself, and her son.  As Garp matures, finding success as an author, Jenny inadvertently eclipses his fame with her own autobiography, which catapults her to the forefront of the feminist movement.<br />I won't say more about the plot, because nothing else would suffice.  To try and describe it any further might inadvertently gloss over the innumerable circumstances that make up Garp's life.  Already, many single scenes come flooding back to memory:  Garp, as a child, stranded precariously on the roof of a dormitory, trying to find a pigeon;  Garp as a teen, experiencing his first sexual encounter, as well as a more fierce encounter with a large black dog named Bonkers;  Garp (in arguably the most haunting moment) turning off his car's engine and quietly gliding up his driveway in the dark, as his son whispers, &quot;It's like a dream!&quot;<br />Irving's other characters run the gamut, from odorific professors to brain-dead war heroes.  There's Roberta Muldoon, a former linebacker-turned-transexual;  Ellen James, the tragic and unwanting figurehead of a truly weird cult;  and Poo, the sister of one of Garp's first girlfriends.  Irving weaves his characters and situations together in a breathtaking dance.  And despite the dance's immense complexity, he never once loses his step.<br />Irving has also become famous (justifiably so) for a story Garp pens within the novel, THE PENSION GRILLPARZER.  While this story is terrific, it has overshadowed the rest of Garp's work found within the pages of the novel.  Irving performs a neat trick, in that Garp's style of writing, while similar to Irving's, is not exactly the same.  Irving writes from Garp's viewpoint, ensuring that Garp has a voice of his own.  While GRILLPARZER is famous, an excerpt from one of Garp's later novels  is equally memorable.  In the story, a young housewife is raped, while a police officer tracks the rapist down.  While it feels like an Irving novel, it also doesn't;  it is far nastier and more grotesque than anything else Irving has written.  It is not Irving's story, it is Garp's, providing a telling glimpse into Garp's anguished soul.<br />GARP is a tragedy, with funny parts.  It is a comedy, with heart-wrenching moments.  It is riotously funny, and crushingly moving.  It is a story of writers, and insanity, and adultry, and terminal cases.  Like the best novels, it displays the entire life of an individual the reader would not otherwise get to know.  It presents you with places you want to see, and people you wouldn't mind sharing a beer with.  It is Irving's best work, and a landmark in American literature., as his son whispers, &quot;It's like a dream!&quot;<br />Irving's other characters run the gamut, from odorific professors to brain-dead war heroes.  There's Roberta Muldoon, a former linebacker-turned-transexual;  Ellen James, the tragic and unwanting figurehead of a truly weird cult;  and Poo, the sister of one of Garp's first girlfriends.  Irving weaves his characters and situations together in a breathtaking dance.  And despite the dance's immense complexity, he never once loses his step.<br />Irving has also become famous (justifiably so) for a story Garp pens within the novel, THE PENSION GRILLPARZER.  While this story is terrific, it has overshadowed the rest of Garp's work found within the pages of the novel.  Irving performs a neat trick, in that Garp's style of writing, while similar to Irving's, is not exactly the same.  Irving writes from Garp's viewpoint, ensuring that Garp has a voice of his own.  While GRILLPARZER is famous, an excerpt from one of Garp's later novels  is equally memorable.  In the story, a young housewife is raped, while a police officer tracks the rapist down.  While it feels like an Irving novel, it also doesn't;  it is far nastier and more grotesque than anything else Irving has written.  It is not Irving's story, it is Garp's, providing a telling glimpse into Garp's anguished soul.<br />GARP is a tragedy, with funny parts.  It is a comedy, with heart-wrenching moments.  It is riotously funny, and crushingly moving.  It is a story of writers, and insanity, and adultry, and terminal cases.  Like the best novels, it displays the entire life of an individual the reader would not otherwise get to know.  It presents you with places you want to see, and people you wouldn't mind sharing a beer with.  It is Irving's best work, and a landmark in American literature.	2001-03-15
US	52473945	R2A5W91F3TZ2OZ	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	62	64	N	N	None Better	Why should anyone read THE MALTESE FALCON?<br />The classic Bogart flick is a near-perfect redition of Dashiell Hammett's tough-guy dialogue.  Director John Huston cast the film so well, that it's impossible to imagine the characters any other way.  And in all its twists and turns, the movie captures every nuance of Hammett's plot, and even adds to the mix.<br />So, again:  Why should anyone read THE MALTESE FALCON?  The same reason why the movie is so watchable time after time;  If you haven't read it, you don't know how good it is, and if you have read it, it's so good, you can't wait to read it again.<br />In THE MALTESE FALCON, Hammett nails every element of the detective genre so precisely, so superbly, that it's a wonder anyone ever tried to write another detective novel after him.  There are simply none better, a detective novel that goes beyond its pulp roots, and enters the realm of 'capital L' Literature.<br />The plot, for those three people who are unaware, is as follows;  Detective Sam Spade has unwittingly become a pawn in a bizarre game of chess.  After his partner Miles is killed, he finds himself immersed in a convoluted plot involving a double-dealing moll, a sly fat man, a creepy small man, and a treasured statue of a bird that, if it exists, is worth unimaginable riches.  But Spade is unwilling to be used in such a fashion, and starts to set himself up as a player in the scheme, all the while trying madly to figure out exactly what he should do.<br />I have always believed, in the best of the genre, that the actual plot comes second to the characters, and FALCON is no exception.  Hammett's Spade is a remarkable resourceful character, living by a code that even he may not truly believe in.  The characters of Gutman, Cairo, Brigid, and Wilmar are by turns despicable, evil, comical, and touching.  Spade may be the driving force, but Hammett knows that Heaven is in the details;  not one minor character is spared his sharp eye for character and ear for dialogue.<br />But Hammett does not skimp on the plot, either.  He is well aware of what Alfred Hitchcock named the 'MacGuffin&quot;;  the one object that motivates the characters.  It doesn't matter whether or not the reader believes in it, it is only important that the characters believe.  Hammett knows this, and uses the bird to unmask the evils that men do, the depths to which people will sink for greed, Spade included.  They morally descend into murder, betrayal, and a surprising amount of sex (that the movie simply could not show, considering the age it was made in).<br />But why is THE MALTESE FALCON so good?  There are many other sterling examples out there, from Raymond Chander's FAREWELL MY LOVELY (a favorite of mine), to Walter Mosley's WHITE BUTTERFLY.  But FALCON has that one elusive quality that will keep a reader coming back for more.  I wish I knew what that was.  I personally believe it is Hammett's understanding of the human condition, of the many contradictions that make up an individual.  To use Spade as an example, Hammett has created a character who is cruel, and hard-headed, and greedy, and self-serving.  Only a man who knows what a person is capable of could ever attempt to make someone like that the hero.<br />P.S. Incidentally, unlike the otherwise perfect casting in the movie, Spade does not resemble Humphrey Bogart in the slightest.  He is a tall, hulking figure, with thinning blond hair and sharp, angular features, often described as a 'blond Satan'.  But it is remarkable that, despite this, Bogart's portrayal is so note-perfect that you can't help but picture him anyway.r dialogue.<br />But Hammett does not skimp on the plot, either.  He is well aware of what Alfred Hitchcock named the 'MacGuffin&quot;;  the one object that motivates the characters.  It doesn't matter whether or not the reader believes in it, it is only important that the characters believe.  Hammett knows this, and uses the bird to unmask the evils that men do, the depths to which people will sink for greed, Spade included.  They morally descend into murder, betrayal, and a surprising amount of sex (that the movie simply could not show, considering the age it was made in).<br />But why is THE MALTESE FALCON so good?  There are many other sterling examples out there, from Raymond Chander's FAREWELL MY LOVELY (a favorite of mine), to Walter Mosley's WHITE BUTTERFLY.  But FALCON has that one elusive quality that will keep a reader coming back for more.  I wish I knew what that was.  I personally believe it is Hammett's understanding of the human condition, of the many contradictions that make up an individual.  To use Spade as an example, Hammett has created a character who is cruel, and hard-headed, and greedy, and self-serving.  Only a man who knows what a person is capable of could ever attempt to make someone like that the hero.<br />P.S. Incidentally, unlike the otherwise perfect casting in the movie, Spade does not resemble Humphrey Bogart in the slightest.  He is a tall, hulking figure, with thinning blond hair and sharp, angular features, often described as a 'blond Satan'.  But it is remarkable that, despite this, Bogart's portrayal is so note-perfect that you can't help but picture him anyway.	2001-03-09
US	52473945	R2L7ZTS42ILEMG	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Breathing New Life Into the Genre	The detective novel has been done to death. There, I said it.  There is nothing new under the sun, the bloom is off the rose, the check is in the mail.  There have been some fine examples of the genre in recent times, true.  Walter Mosley's `Easy Rawlins' mysteries rank right up there with the best.  But for the most part, authors bring nothing new to the table.  They rehash Hammett, and Chandler, but never find their own true voice.<br />Or so I thought.<br />MOTHERLESS BROOKLYN has given me cause to celebrate.  Not that the mystery itself is such an amazing feat of twists and turns.  But the manner in which the mystery is told, the style and wit of the author, puts the literature back into the genre.  This is a detective novel with class.  I haven't been this startled by such originality and invention in a detective novel since Andrew Vachss introduced his `Burke' character in FLOOD.<br />Lionel Essrog is a New York detective, of sorts, one of four right-hand men serving under detective Frank Minna.  Minna isn't really a detective, he's more of a criminal in disguise, but Lionel and the others are too enraptured to care.  Minna recruited Lionel and the others from an orphanage (all four men comprise `Motherless Brooklyn') to work as his henchmen, his drivers, his servants.  When Minna is killed, Lionel must track the killer down.<br />It sounds fairly standard for a detective novel, but author Jonathan Letham's ace-in-the-hole is Lionel's unusual dilemma: Lionel has Tourette's syndrome, a disorder that manifests itself through uncontrollable verbal and physical tics and spasms.  As Lionel narrates his tale, relating his past life at the orphanage up to the present, he presents a viewpoint of the universe not many people could claim to understand, the frantic need for order and discipline in a world undesigned for this sort of comfort.<br />This is treading a fine line.  Lionel's disability could easily have become a gimmick, or even worse, a joke (although his asides and mutterings can be funny; he finds it almost impossible to say his name correctly).  Letham navigates these perils with aplomb, and it is a tribute to his skill that Lionel's constant outbursts never become tiresome.  We are fully immersed in the mind of a man with Tourette's, and it is often a startling experience.<br />There is a touching aspect to Lionel's tale that only reveals itself fully in hindsight.  Minna is obviously a father figure to Lionel and the others, but it is only when Lionel finally functions completely on his own does he mature into a man.  Until that time, he was a boy in a man's frame, completely intoxicated with the world Minna provided, rarely stopping to ponder the seething darkness that Minna kept at bay.  Minna was a father, but he was not a good father, and Lionel only comes to realize this when he faces the world completely and utterly alone.<br />The mystery itself, like most good mysteries, is secondary.  It is not the mystery that holds our attention.  It is the language, the characters.  THE MALTESE FALCON is a fine mystery, but it wouldn't hold our interest without Sam Spade's hard-boiled detective.  A mystery is only as good as the frame which supports it.  MOTHERLESS BROOKLYN has a very good frame indeed.des and mutterings can be funny; he finds it almost impossible to say his name correctly).  Letham navigates these perils with aplomb, and it is a tribute to his skill that Lionel's constant outbursts never become tiresome.  We are fully immersed in the mind of a man with Tourette's, and it is often a startling experience.<br />There is a touching aspect to Lionel's tale that only reveals itself fully in hindsight.  Minna is obviously a father figure to Lionel and the others, but it is only when Lionel finally functions completely on his own does he mature into a man.  Until that time, he was a boy in a man's frame, completely intoxicated with the world Minna provided, rarely stopping to ponder the seething darkness that Minna kept at bay.  Minna was a father, but he was not a good father, and Lionel only comes to realize this when he faces the world completely and utterly alone.<br />The mystery itself, like most good mysteries, is secondary.  It is not the mystery that holds our attention.  It is the language, the characters.  THE MALTESE FALCON is a fine mystery, but it wouldn't hold our interest without Sam Spade's hard-boiled detective.  A mystery is only as good as the frame which supports it.  MOTHERLESS BROOKLYN has a very good frame indeed.	2001-03-04
US	52473945	R15YFOH72R1IBI	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	See the cat?  See the cradle?  See the point?	Having read many of Kurt Vonnegut's novels, both the sublime (MOTHER NIGHT) and the ridiculous (TIMEQUAKE), I felt I was prepared for CAT'S CRADLE.  And, as usual for Vonnegut, all his usual elements are here: the purposefully simple prose, the distrust of established dogma, sex, religion, science, et al.  But upon finishing CRADLE, I was awestruck at my unpreparedness for the true mobilizing force behind the plot.  Rage.<br />CAT'S CRADLE is an angry book, full of loathing and despair for the construct we call humanity.  Vonnegut has always been one of the world's best moralists, but CRADLE finds him almost unhinged to the point of mania.  And yet, it is quite likely Vonnegut's greatest and most entertaining achievement.<br />The narrator, Jonah (or so he informs us), is an author bent on penning a novel which will encompass the day the hydrogen bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.  His research leads him to the family of Dr. Felix Hoenikker, a scientist involved in the invention of the bomb.  As he talks to the family, and other scientists, he becomes faintly aware of a fictional substance called `ice-nine', which had befuddled Dr. Hoenikker for some time.  In true Vonnegut fashion, this subplot is dropped until needed, as several years later Jonah meets up with the Hoenikker family in San Lorenzo, a tiny third world country with a bizarre origin and an unusual religion.<br />I don't want to give too much of the plot away.  Unlike several of Vonnegut's more recent works, the plot does play a large part of the novel's progression.  Suffice to say, the fictitious religion of Bokononism plays a large part in the story, as do insanity, death, power, Armageddon, clarinets, stone angels, and love.  And it all proceeds logically, especially in the context of the teachings of Bokonon.<br />Like the best of Vonnegut, the deeper themes only come to the reader after they are replayed in the mind.  Vonnegut's distrust of religion is evident as always, as Bokononism is based on the premise that all religions are lies, including Bokononism.  But Vonnegut doesn't simply slam religion; Science, as the alternative, is equally a cause for distress, as power-mad generals demand new methods of destruction from their scientists, and the scientists don't consider the possibility that perhaps some problems should never be solved.  Vonnegut finds no happiness in ignorance, but he finds none in knowledge, either.<br />Why, then, is CAT'S CRADLE such a funny book?  Any other author might have well been crushed under the weight of manic depression.  But not Vonnegut.  He revels in man's insanity, in man's arrogance.  Vonnegut cannot provide an answer; neither should he be expected to provide one.  He realizes that by delivering a soliloquy on a method to save us, he would become that which he despises the most: a preacher.  Vonnegut knows there are no easy answers.  All he can do is provide examples of where our current behaviour will take us.<br />CAT'S CRADLE is simultaneously hysterical and horrifying, a morality tale that remains as relevant in the 21st century as the day Vonnegut published it.  Anyone who believes they have the answer to mankind's problems should read it at once.premise that all religions are lies, including Bokononism.  But Vonnegut doesn't simply slam religion; Science, as the alternative, is equally a cause for distress, as power-mad generals demand new methods of destruction from their scientists, and the scientists don't consider the possibility that perhaps some problems should never be solved.  Vonnegut finds no happiness in ignorance, but he finds none in knowledge, either.<br />Why, then, is CAT'S CRADLE such a funny book?  Any other author might have well been crushed under the weight of manic depression.  But not Vonnegut.  He revels in man's insanity, in man's arrogance.  Vonnegut cannot provide an answer; neither should he be expected to provide one.  He realizes that by delivering a soliloquy on a method to save us, he would become that which he despises the most: a preacher.  Vonnegut knows there are no easy answers.  All he can do is provide examples of where our current behaviour will take us.<br />CAT'S CRADLE is simultaneously hysterical and horrifying, a morality tale that remains as relevant in the 21st century as the day Vonnegut published it.  Anyone who believes they have the answer to mankind's problems should read it at once.	2001-02-25
US	52473945	RQ1TXXR1P0S6D	037540340X	682555219	The Road to Mars: A Post-Modem Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	A novel I desperately wanted to enjoy	It's a depressing experience; reading a novel that you want to enjoy, yet it never fully engages you.  You try and try to give the novel the benefit of a doubt, and when it does intermitently succeed, your hopes are raised.  And when it inevitably crashes back down to the mundane, you weep.  So it is with THE ROAD TO MARS, written by Eric Idle.<br />Idle, as many people know, was a member of MONTY PYTHON'S FLYING CIRCUS, the legendary British comedy troupe that remains, to my mind, one of the funniest troupes ever conceived.  I cannot watch one of their programs or movies without launching into convulsions of laughter.  When Idle published ROAD, my heart soared with the prospect of new avenues of merriment.  No such luck.<br />The plot concerns two comedians of the future, Alex and Lewis, as they travel throughout space searching for their next gig.  Along with them is Carlton, a robot resembling David Bowie, who is trying to decipher the genetics of comedy.  All three get caught up in a confusing plot involving terrorists, love interests, missing fathers, and bizarre entertainment personalities.<br />One can quibble and argue over the merits of the writing.  Is it brilliant?  No. Is it art?  Unlikely?  But the real question is, is it FUNNY?  On the whole, lamentably no.<br />The comparisons to THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY quintet of novels are inevitable.  After all, how many science-fiction comedies are out there?  And perhaps the comparison is unfair.  Douglas Adams' GUIDE was a true original, paving the way with its brilliant use of language, low puns, and ridiculous science.  GUIDE's chief strength is its writing, how the gags and puns stack one on top of another with breakneck speed, forcing the reader to return to the novels  again and again, to catch every nuance.<br />But Idle's concept lends itself to the comparison.  He sets up, as his main theme, the genesis of comedy itself.  And I do like the initial framework of the novel, narrated by a micropaleontologist (the study of the last ten minutes) who has found in Carlton's dissertaion on comedy a chance to win the Nobel Prize.<br />But in the end, it is simply not all that funny, or even mildly humourous.  There are glimpses of true wit (I particularly loved the throwaway explanation of the extiction of the Yeti), but surprisingly, considering the protagonists are comedians, they just aren't funny on the page.<br />Perhaps that's the problem.  Have you ever tried to describe the antics of a comedian, or re-enact a sketch that made you laugh, and in the process, completely destroyed whatever was initially funny?  THE ROAD TO MARS is like that.  It describes funny scenes that occurred, deciding that since the people involved were funny, then the retelling must be funny as well.  THE ROAD TO MARS is lacking in that one vital element both Alex and Lewis are crucially aware of.  As the joke goes (and is quoted in ROAD):<br />&quot;Ask me the secret of comedy.&quot;<br />&quot;What is the secret of...&quot;<br />&quot;Timing&quot;	2001-02-23
US	52473945	REX95CSLB176H	037540340X	682555219	The Road to Mars: A Post-Modem Novel	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A novel I desperately wanted to enjoy	It's a depressing experience; reading a novel that you want to enjoy, yet it never fully engages you.  You try and try to give the novel the benefit of a doubt, and when it does intermitently succeed, your hopes are raised.  And when it inevitably crashes back down to the mundane, you weep.  So it is with THE ROAD TO MARS, written by Eric Idle.<br />Idle, as many people know, was a member of MONTY PYTHON'S FLYING CIRCUS, the legendary British comedy troupe that remains, to my mind, one of the funniest troupes ever conceived.  I cannot watch one of their programs or movies without launching into convulsions of laughter.  When Idle published ROAD, my heart soared with the prospect of new avenues of merriment.  No such luck.<br />The plot concerns two comedians of the future, Alex and Lewis, as they travel throughout space searching for their next gig.  Along with them is Carlton, a robot resembling David Bowie, who is trying to decipher the genetics of comedy.  All three get caught up in a confusing plot involving terrorists, love interests, missing fathers, and bizarre entertainment personalities.<br />One can quibble and argue over the merits of the writing.  Is it brilliant?  No. Is it art?  Unlikely?  But the real question is, is it FUNNY?  On the whole, lamentably no.<br />The comparisons to THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY quintet of novels are inevitable.  After all, how many science-fiction comedies are out there?  And perhaps the comparison is unfair.  Douglas Adams' GUIDE was a true original, paving the way with its brilliant use of language, low puns, and ridiculous science.  GUIDE's chief strength is its writing, how the gags and puns stack one on top of another with breakneck speed, forcing the reader to return to the novels  again and again, to catch every nuance.<br />But Idle's concept lends itself to the comparison.  He sets up, as his main theme, the genesis of comedy itself.  And I do like the initial framework of the novel, narrated by a micropaleontologist (the study of the last ten minutes) who has found in Carlton's dissertaion on comedy a chance to win the Nobel Prize.<br />But in the end, it is simply not all that funny, or even mildly humourous.  There are glimpses of true wit (I particularly loved the throwaway explanation of the extiction of the Yeti), but surprisingly, considering the protagonists are comedians, they just aren't funny on the page.<br />Perhaps that's the problem.  Have you ever tried to describe the antics of a comedian, or re-enact a sketch that made you laugh, and in the process, completely destroyed whatever was initially funny?  THE ROAD TO MARS is like that.  It describes funny scenes that occurred, deciding that since the people involved were funny, then the retelling must be funny as well.  THE ROAD TO MARS is lacking in that one vital element both Alex and Lewis are crucially aware of.  As the joke goes (and is quoted in ROAD):<br />&quot;Ask me the secret of comedy.&quot;<br />&quot;What is the secret of...&quot;<br />&quot;Timing&quot;aleontologist (the study of the last ten minutes) who has found in Carlton's dissertaion on comedy a chance to win the Nobel Prize.<br />But in the end, it is simply not all that funny, or even mildly humourous.  There are glimpses of true wit (I particularly loved the throwaway explanation of the extiction of the Yeti), but surprisingly, considering the protagonists are comedians, they just aren't funny on the page.<br />Perhaps that's the problem.  Have you ever tried to describe the antics of a comedian, or re-enact a sketch that made you laugh, and in the process, completely destroyed whatever was initially funny?  THE ROAD TO MARS is like that.  It describes funny scenes that occurred, deciding that since the people involved were funny, then the retelling must be funny as well.  THE ROAD TO MARS is lacking in that one vital element both Alex and Lewis are crucially aware of.  As the joke goes (and is quoted in ROAD):<br />&quot;Ask me the secret of comedy.&quot;<br />&quot;What is the secret of...&quot;<br />&quot;Timing&quot;	2001-02-23
US	52473945	R2DGUXJWDVYBT2	0679438882	147053508	The Unusual Life of Tristan Smith	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A novel of deep themes and insight	A recent article in Canada's GLOBE AND MAIL referred to Peter Carey's THE UNUSUAL LIFE OF TRISTAN SMITH as &quot;the best book ever written about U.S. cultural dominance over Canada, even if that's not what Carey had in mind.&quot;  Once I read that, I knew I must find the book.<br />To my surprise, TRISTAN is far more than the above quote suggested (although it is accurate).  Carey uses the cultural dominance of one fictional country over another as a launching pad for a  terrific, semi-futuristic romp through the truly unusual life of Tristan Smith, an actor/juggler with more than a few problems.<br />Tristan is born and raised in Efica, a small, ignored colonial country that has been fighting a long battle to be free of the machinations of it's much larger neighbour and protector, Voorstand.  (While Carey likely intended this as a metaphor to the relations of Australia and England [or New Zealand and Australia], the Canada/U.S. connection comes through loud and clear.)  Tristan is born to an acting family, consisting of Felicity Smith (mother/actor), Bill (father/actor), Vincent (possible father/backer), and Wally (father figure/protector).  It leads to much confusion and anarchy in Tristan's life, but it's nothing compared to his real handicap.<br />Tristan is deformed, in a way Carey refuses to clearly define, leaving it up to our imagination.  He has translucent skin, mangled legs, malformed chest, no lips, and is quite small.  Often, he refers to himself as a 'squid', if that helps in picturing his physique.  He might have grown up to have his own life, but due to his dependance upon the kindness of others, he finds himself caught up in schemes and plans that soon lead to his being considered a traitor and possible liability by Voorstand authorities.  It sounds confusing, but Carey moves the plot forward in an extremely logical fashion.<br />Being unable to function on his own, Tristan becomes the ultimate observer of life, and gains an understanding of human nature that may be ignored by its more active participants.  But like humanity, Tristan longs to be loved, to be accepted, and when he inadvertently takes on the persona of a religious icon of Voorstand, he comes closer to his dream.<br />Carey must have realized that using real countries might alienate the reader, and has succeeded in creating two completely real fictional countries, both similar and distinctly different from our own.  A religion, based on animals named Bruder Mouse, Bruder Duck, etc., has been devised to explain the increasingly bizarre behaviour of the citizens of both countries.  Carey never goes into too much detail, allowing the reader to see the absurdity of the practices, and also pointing out the folly of our own beliefs.  It reminded me of the astonishingly vague religion Philip K. Dick created for DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP?, a mish-mash of theories and modes that lends itself to the insanity of that paricular novel.  TRISTIAN's religion involves lifelike cyborgs of animated characters, which run rampant through Voorstand, often bursting onto flames, yet adored and revered by the public.  It is not so important that we understand it, as it is that the characters believe it.<br />There is also a political subplot that underlines the story, as Tristan's mother is an ardant and important supporter of Efica's Blue Party, a left wing organization that exists on a platform of increased freedom from Voorland's reach.  This is contrary to the existing power of the Red Party, which is manipulated by Voorstand agents.<br />Carey's talent lies in never hitting the reader over the head with the metaphors.  Like the best novels, it can be read simply for pleasure's sake.  It is only upon reflection do the deeper themes emerge.  The Voorstanders' inability and unwillingness to comprehend the ways of Efica, and the Eficans' intolerance yet love for the ways of Voorstand, is a theme that can find parallels in almost every country you can thinkof.<br />THE UNUSUAL LIFE OF TRISTAN SMITH is an intimate portrayal of one individual.  It is a political allegory.  It is a retelling of the Christ parable, on par with Robert Heinlein's STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.  It is a particularly fine novel.of.<br />THE UNUSUAL LIFE OF TRISTAN SMITH is an intimate portrayal of one individual.  It is a political allegory.  It is a retelling of the Christ parable, on par with Robert Heinlein's STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.  It is a particularly fine novel.	2001-02-21
US	52473945	R2J1JZGGJDKMS8	0060920076	388683066	Affliction	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Quite Possible the Saddest Novel I've Ever Read	Film critic Roger Ebert once stated that if someone wanted to understand the psychology of a man driven to abuse his family, they should view Martin Scorsese's RAGING BULL.  In that vein, I would like to add the same sentiment to the literary equivilent.  If a reader would like a glimpse into the reasonings of a man who abuses those around him, Russell Banks' novel AFFLICTION must be read.<br />AFFLICTION follows the last few weeks in the life of Wade Whitehouse, a small-town police officer, plow driver, and crossing guard, who mysteriously disappears after an act of brutal violence.  As related by his brother Rolfe, Wade is an intelligent, deeply emotional man who has let life lead him to his present position.  Instead of the dreams of youth he once possessed, he is now darkly cynical, having been divorced twice from the same woman, with a daughter who is slowly coming to hate his intrusive presence.  He does not see himself as cynical, however;  He remains deeply hopeful, and cannot bring himself to understand why his plans unerringly end up as tragedy.<br />As the story progresses, we grow to truly understand Wade's motivations, and we despair that he cannot see the folly of his increasing paranoia.  His disturbing upbringing, under a father who increasingly becomes violent himself, lends an air of melancholy to Wade's depression and growing fits of rage.  His inadequacy as a father, his impotence as a figure of authority in the community, speeds him ever faster into ruin, yet he remains unwilling to let go of any scrap of salvation he can grab onto.  In this case, it is an accidental death that Wade is reluctant to let go as such, regarding it as a holy grail, an avenue towards eventual redemption.<br />Lest this start to sound like the retelling of the Job parable, I want to make it clear that there is no salvation awaiting Wade, as reward for his tribulations.  Banks knows the unforgiving nature of small-town life, the shame that haunts the movements of every member of the village.  Wade realizes this, but cannot bring himself to leave.  &quot;Hell is other people&quot;, he remarks to Rolfe, echoing the philosphy of Jean-Paul Sartre.<br />Some critics have remarked that the narration of Rolfe is an unnecessary distraction, as he continues to describe events and motivations that he could not possibly have knowledge of.  But that is precisely the point:  We cannot know what moves people to commit the acts they do, we can only theorize, trying to find something to explain away the horror.  Rolfe despairs because he can never truly understand.  He can only guess, using his own upbringing under their father as a springboard into thoughts and dreams he will never know.<br />Banks has written a wonderful novel about sadness.  It is a beautiful, moving piece that hits the reader like a punch to the stomach.  It is remarkable.<br />P.S. - Several years ago, a film version of AFFLICTION was released, starring Nock Nolte as Wade.  While having had the benefit of seeing the movie first, I think the reader will agree, after finishing the novel, that no one could have played Wade but Nolte.  He is that good.member of the village.  Wade realizes this, but cannot bring himself to leave.  &quot;Hell is other people&quot;, he remarks to Rolfe, echoing the philosphy of Jean-Paul Sartre.<br />Some critics have remarked that the narration of Rolfe is an unnecessary distraction, as he continues to describe events and motivations that he could not possibly have knowledge of.  But that is precisely the point:  We cannot know what moves people to commit the acts they do, we can only theorize, trying to find something to explain away the horror.  Rolfe despairs because he can never truly understand.  He can only guess, using his own upbringing under their father as a springboard into thoughts and dreams he will never know.<br />Banks has written a wonderful novel about sadness.  It is a beautiful, moving piece that hits the reader like a punch to the stomach.  It is remarkable.<br />P.S. - Several years ago, a film version of AFFLICTION was released, starring Nock Nolte as Wade.  While having had the benefit of seeing the movie first, I think the reader will agree, after finishing the novel, that no one could have played Wade but Nolte.  He is that good.	2001-02-18
US	52473945	R1X368T4K9G3VK	0743200349	468170668	The Third Miracle: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not quite successful	Lately, it is hard not to be inundated with religious imagery and thought in the media.  TOUCHED BY AN ANGEL rules the airwaves.  Evangelists run for president.  The LEFT BEHIND series of fundamentalist Christian apocalyptic adventures continues to publish new installments.  Arnold Schwarzenegger battles Satan in END OF DAYS.  Sometimes, it can all get a little overpowering.<br />But reading THE THIRD MIRACLE, at first, gave me cause for hope.  Here was a story about the struggles a priest must deal with when it comes to faith.  Rather than embrace it blindly, faith becomes a hard commodity to hold onto when you can't find a reason to go on.<br />But alas, THE THIRD MIRACLE eventually lets the reader down;  not in its discussion of the ramifications of faith and disbelief, but in its storytelling capabilities.  In a novel full of intensely personal and important themes, the story's execution is too slight to withstand it.<br />The priest in question is Father Frank Moore, a smart, handsome man who has had a crisis of faith.  (Incidentally, are ALL priests smart and handsome?  After the movies THE EXORCIST and STIGMATA, the deeply brooding and charismatic priest is becoming WAY too much of a cliche).  His crisis is a result of his job, as a postulator for the Church.  Frank has the unenviable task of researching alledged 'miracles', and debunking them if possible.  In his last assignment, he revealed that his personal mentor had committed suicide, thereby destroying any chance the congregation had of getting him declared a saint.  It also destroyed the faith and hopes of the congregation itself.<br />Now, Frank is alone and unsure.  He finds himself unable to care about others, and his new assignment into the possible sainthood of a local woman is not one that he wants.  But there are several variables he hadn't counted on.  A statue that bleeds human blood.  A young girl miraculously cured of Lupus.  And the daughter of the woman, whom Frank is drawn to despite his vows.<br />This does have the makings of a terrific novel.  Author Richard Vetere at first manages to balance the fine line between characterization and themes, which makes for some enjoyable reading.  And the insight he offers into the canonization process of the Catholic Church is thought-provoking.  I cannot vouch for its authenticity, but Vetere's presentation of the entire scheme is illuminating.<br />But THE THIRD MIRACLE, in the end, isn't deep enough.  It purports to discuss the perils that faith can lead to, but the problems of the characters are too obvious, and Vetere isn't a good enough writer to make it fresh.  The dynamic between Frank and the daughter Roxanna is trite, and implausibly fast.  The epilogue is too pat, and can be seen coming a mile away.  In the end, Vetere fails to create any real tension, presenting themes without passion.<br />That's not to say the ideas are meaningless.  Regardless of a person's beliefs, the quest for faith will always be a fascinating subject.  Even a waste of a movie such as STIGMATA sparks some element of interest in the viewer, because the subject-matter is inherently compelling.  But Vetere hasn't done enough to sustain interest over THE THIRD MIRACLE's rather short length.  Vetere has the outline right, but he needs to fill in the blanks.vows.<br />This does have the makings of a terrific novel.  Author Richard Vetere at first manages to balance the fine line between characterization and themes, which makes for some enjoyable reading.  And the insight he offers into the canonization process of the Catholic Church is thought-provoking.  I cannot vouch for its authenticity, but Vetere's presentation of the entire scheme is illuminating.<br />But THE THIRD MIRACLE, in the end, isn't deep enough.  It purports to discuss the perils that faith can lead to, but the problems of the characters are too obvious, and Vetere isn't a good enough writer to make it fresh.  The dynamic between Frank and the daughter Roxanna is trite, and implausibly fast.  The epilogue is too pat, and can be seen coming a mile away.  In the end, Vetere fails to create any real tension, presenting themes without passion.<br />That's not to say the ideas are meaningless.  Regardless of a person's beliefs, the quest for faith will always be a fascinating subject.  Even a waste of a movie such as STIGMATA sparks some element of interest in the viewer, because the subject-matter is inherently compelling.  But Vetere hasn't done enough to sustain interest over THE THIRD MIRACLE's rather short length.  Vetere has the outline right, but he needs to fill in the blanks.	2001-01-30
US	52473945	R17H6KSVLRGK39	0452275008	106255605	Zombie	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A true understanding of what scares us	In the disturbing movie thriller SE7EN, detectives Somerset and Mills discover the journals of John Doe, a suspected serial killer.  The reams and reams of writings describe, in exacting detail, the day-to-day existence of a man who is clearly insane.  After reading ZOMBIE, I would have no trouble in believing I have read a small portion of those diaries.<br />ZOMBIE is Joyce Carol Oates' ode to the serial killer, a character who has become the subject of a perverse form of fascination in North American culture over the last few years.  Whether social critics would ascribe this to a loosening of public morals, or a fear of death, I do not know.  But the mere idea of the 'serial killer', the person who methodically kills and kills again, is one that continues to haunt.<br />Oates is, of course, hardly the first author to plumb the depths of human perversity.  Thomas Harris has given us three glimpses into depravity in his last three books:  Francis Dollarhyde, Jame Gumb, and Hannibal Lector (from, respectively, RED DRAGON, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, and HANNIBAL).  Other notables from the past include Rex Miller's Chainsaw (SLOB), Shane Steven's Thomas Bishop (BY REASON OF INSANITY), and of course, Robert Bloch's Norman Bates (PSYCHO).  All have attempted, in one form or another, to delve into the inner workings of the mind, to see what triggered the madness within us all.<br />Oates' first-person narrative takes us into the consciousness of Q_ P_, a young man currently working as a caretaker for a student house.  He has had a good upbringing in a stable environment, surrounded by people who love him, and who do their best to understand his actions.  He has also just been given probation for the attempted rape of a minor.  Through his often childish ramblings and schemes, the reader quickly learns just how dangerous Q_ P_ really is.<br />Unlike the previous novel's mentioned above, Oates does not provide some clue into why Q_ P_ is the way he is.  By his account, there has been no history of abuse, or trauma, that most people would view as the source of his unbalance.  What Oates does within the pages of ZOMBIE is to remind the reader that there are no easy answers.  People may find relief in an explanation of actions, but Oates refuses to provide this outlet.  Q_ P_ is who he is.  It's pointless to debate why he is the way he is.<br />There can be no satisfactory reason as to why Q_ P_ is obsessed with creating a 'zombie' by means of a crude (yet at one time widely accepted) form of lobotomy.  There is no reason why he chooses his victims, although there are hints of an instance of unrequited love as a child.<br />And in the end, the reasons don't matter at all.  Oates has done her homework into the patterns that serial killers fall into (the keeping of certain items from the victims, the belief that certain people are somehow connected to them on an alternate level).  But the pattern does not explain the individual.  Q_ P_ had led no different life than the rest of us.  There is no reason why he should become unable to control his impulses and fetishes.  And yet, he can't.<br />This is Oates' masterstroke, the final, absolute refusal to appease societies collective need for closure.  Oates understands the primal urge that is, &quot;We fear that which we do not understand&quot;.  It is precisely because we can't comprehend or sympathize with Q_ P_ that makes him a monster.  He's just like everyone else you meet daily.  He's the person you sit next to on a bus.  He's the person who you talk to on the phone.  He's you.e has been no history of abuse, or trauma, that most people would view as the source of his unbalance.  What Oates does within the pages of ZOMBIE is to remind the reader that there are no easy answers.  People may find relief in an explanation of actions, but Oates refuses to provide this outlet.  Q_ P_ is who he is.  It's pointless to debate why he is the way he is.  <br />There can be no satisfactory reason as to why Q_ P_ is obsessed with creating a 'zombie' by means of a crude (yet at one time widely accepted) form of lobotomy.  There is no reason why he chooses his victims, although there are hints of an instance of unrequited love as a child.  <br />And in the end, the reasons don't matter at all.  Oates has done her homework into the patterns that serial killers fall into (the keeping of certain items from the victims, the belief that certain people are somehow connected to them on an alternate level).  But the pattern does not explain the individual.  Q_ P_ had led no different life than the rest of us.  There is no reason why he should become unable to control his impulses and fetishes.  And yet, he can't.<br />This is Oates' masterstroke, the final, absolute refusal to appease societies collective need for closure.  Oates understands the primal urge that is, &quot;We fear that which we do not understand&quot;.  It is precisely because we can't comprehend or sympathize with Q_ P_ that makes him a monster.  He's just like everyone else you meet daily.  He's the person you sit next to on a bus.  He's the person who you talk to on the phone.  He's you.	2001-01-28
US	52473945	R36CZ9E6XM4WN5	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	The Shallowness of the American Dream	It is rare, these days, to come across a rational discourse on the perils of the modern American white male.  Most books on the subject tend to travel along the lines of 'reclaiming your identity', or 'actualization'.  This leads to the unhappy result:  The Promise Keepers movement (shudder).<br />This sort of discourse overlooks the fairly obvious; life ain't what it used to be.  The world as it now exists is complex, demanding, and illogical.  The American male is often left bewildered and impotent by the lack of power he posesses.  This can result in scapegoating, racism, and any other number of social ills that the mind is capable of.  T. Coraghessen Boyle's wonderful novel THE TORTILLA CURTAIN captures this helplessness perfectly.<br />Delaney and Kyra Mossbacher are liberal humanists living an idyllic life in Los Angeles.  Kyra sells homes, while Delaney authors a column for an enviromental magazine.  (Incidentally, Delaney's column is a brilliant conceit:  A well-fed and pampered white male rhapsodizes about 'sleeping under the stars'.  Its mix of down-home homilies and ridiculous views of nature echoes the terrific but sometimes preachy nature of THE UTNE READER, an alternative viewpoints magazine.  It's a great magazine, but its articles have a tendency to lean towards the dangerously nostalgic.)<br />Everything seems perfect, until Delaney runs over an illegal Mexican immigrant named Candido.  This proves to be a defining moment in both of their lives, and Boyle does a terrific job at intertwining their resulting stories;  Delaney finds himself increasingly unable to exist within his world, while Candido struggles to provide himself and his young wife with the life that is promised under the heading, 'The American Dream'.<br />Boyle captures perfectly the inane lifestyle that most white Americans desperately crave;  a life with all the trimmings, seemingly simple and in tune with nature, yet completely at the mercy of nature's forces.  Boyle leads Delaney and Kyra down this path with a slow, steady hand, as they find their supposedly heart-felt liberalism whittled away by petty annoyances, leading to a startling burst of racism towards illegal immigrants, the all-purpose scapegoats.<br />Boyle's point is well-taken.  The veneer of civility people purport to live under is thin indeed.  His contrast of this world with the stark desperation that Candido lives with every day is brilliant.  It may be an oft-used theory that those with everything are never satisfied, but Boyle manages to makes it fresh.  As Delaney steadily falls apart, and Candido glimpses hope time and time again, Boyle unearths the true face of America: A greedy, self-absprbed child who wants everything, and becomes violent when someone else wants the same things.<br />The insulated nature of the American culture has always been an easy target, for good reason.  But Boyle refuses to make his novel an exercise in parody.  Boyle sympathizes, but refuses to compromise.  THE TORTILLA CURTAIN is that rarest of novels:  an important novel.  It should be required reading.ey and Kyra down this path with a slow, steady hand, as they find their supposedly heart-felt liberalism whittled away by petty annoyances, leading to a startling burst of racism towards illegal immigrants, the all-purpose scapegoats.<br />Boyle's point is well-taken.  The veneer of civility people purport to live under is thin indeed.  His contrast of this world with the stark desperation that Candido lives with every day is brilliant.  It may be an oft-used theory that those with everything are never satisfied, but Boyle manages to makes it fresh.  As Delaney steadily falls apart, and Candido glimpses hope time and time again, Boyle unearths the true face of America: A greedy, self-absprbed child who wants everything, and becomes violent when someone else wants the same things.<br />The insulated nature of the American culture has always been an easy target, for good reason.  But Boyle refuses to make his novel an exercise in parody.  Boyle sympathizes, but refuses to compromise.  THE TORTILLA CURTAIN is that rarest of novels:  an important novel.  It should be required reading.	2001-01-09
US	52473945	RKIH0ELMHPVCO	0684838680	434448992	Fall on Your Knees.	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Everything old is new again	What makes a book 'original'?  Every plot conceivable has been done to death.  Every character imaginable has graced the pages of some novel or other.  Every emotion possible has been wrung out of the reader.  So why even write any more books?  If it's all been done, why do it again?<br />A true pleasure of reading is finding that one novel in a thousand that manages to break free from the rest, that manages to startle and amuse within a familiar frameswork, that makes the old seem fresh.  FALL ON YOUR KNEES is such a book.<br />FALL ON YOUR KNEES follows the tribulations of the Pipers, an unusual family living in Cape Breton in the early twentieth centure.  The patriarch is James, a former piano tuner, who married Materia, a thirteen-year-old Lebanese girl who is promptly disowned from her family.  Resulting from this rather unhappy coupling:  Kathleen, a girl with the voice of an angel;  the devout and well-meaning Mercedes;  the wild and possibly insane Frances; and the crippled yet miraculous Lily.<br />At its essence, this is a 'family drama', a novel that traces one family's life throughout its tumultuous history.  There is absolutely nothing original about this theme.  Personally, I always believed that John Irving put the 'fun' in 'dysfunctional'.  But Ann-Marie MacDonald has accomplished something equally as fine and wonderful as Irving has often done;  she has broken the bounds of the novel, making it read as if this was the first time anyone ever conceived of the idea.<br />MacDonald proves she has Irving's gift for finely-tuned characterization, combined with the ability to constantly surprise the reader.  As MacDonald drives the narrative, through  the battlefields of World War One, into the great depression, and then veering into the worlds of New York and Harlem, she consistently delights the reader with fresh sub-plots and characters.  As well, MacDonald refuses to judge her characters.  She leads us through the despicable acts of James and Frances, the self-pitying laments of Mercedes, the class hatred and eventual rebirth of Kathleen, all without a moment's disdain or loathing.  The characters are all deeply flawed, but MacDonald refuses to sentimentalize or soften them.  For better or for worse, they are who they are.<br />FALL ON YOUR KNEES has moments of remarkable vision, and easily holds its own against any of the more established novelists of today.  It is a novel to read again and again, perhaps in conjunction with Irving's THE HOTEL NEW HAMPSHIRE.  It is a treasure of a novel, and MacDonald will have a difficult time if she ever wants to top it.the self-pitying laments of Mercedes, the class hatred and eventual rebirth of Kathleen, all without a moment's disdain or loathing.  The characters are all deeply flawed, but MacDonald refuses to sentimentalize or soften them.  For better or for worse, they are who they are.<br />FALL ON YOUR KNEES has moments of remarkable vision, and easily holds its own against any of the more established novelists of today.  It is a novel to read again and again, perhaps in conjunction with Irving's THE HOTEL NEW HAMPSHIRE.  It is a treasure of a novel, and MacDonald will have a difficult time if she ever wants to top it.	2000-12-06
US	52473945	R2BHFN79QX0GQH	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	4	102	104	N	N	Vonnegut at his most enjoyably incoherent	Kurt Vonnegut Jr. has specialized in two types of novels.  The first types are made up of sharp, witty tales that poke fun at humanity, while all the time keeping one eye on the plot.  Both SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE and MOTHER NIGHT are sterling examples.<br />The second type of Vonnegut novel is awkward and unusual in the extreme, often leaving the reader dazed, thumping his or her head on the floor in a vain attempt at comprehension.  They are enjoyable, but their precise meaning continues to elude.  TIMEQUAKE is a fine example.  BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS is another.<br />BREAKFAST, to define some semblance of a plot, follows two main story threads.  In the first, Vonnegut presents us with Dwayne Hoover, car-salesman extrordinaire, who is slowly and surely losing his mind.  In the second, we have Vonnegut regular Kilgore Trout, the unemployed and unlikable science-fiction writer, who is hitch-hiking his way across the country to recieve a sizable award at an arts convention.<br />This is the plot, but Vonnegut adheres to it only in passing.  In countless asides and divergences, Vonnegut explores sex, race, politics, sex, enviromental catastrophe, sex, aliens, robots, god, and sex.  All this, plus numerous obscene doodles and an appearance from Vonnegut himself, bestowing wisdom upon his creations.<br />What, exactly, is Vonnegut trying to say?  American culture is a vast wasteland of imbecility?  People are generally self-centred and greedy, and above all, not nice?  As a culture, America is doomed to die in its own sewage?  The answer to all would seem to be yes.  Vonnegut has often had a core of anger in his writings, and BREAKFAST is perhaps his angriest.<br />But BREAKFAST is not simply a gloomy discussion of the end of us all.  Vonnegut is far too wise to dwell on man's foibles for long.  He continues on his merry way, drawing our attention to this event and that one, all the while reminding us that perhaps Dwayne Hoover is correct:  We ARE all robots, grinding our gears, fulfilling our functions, not considering any sorts of consequences.<br />An astonishing thing has just happened:  While penning this review, I realized just how much I enjoyed the book.  It was confusing, bizarre, and often irritating.  But many of Vonnegut's themes have remained in my consciousness, continuing to dispense nuggets of thought to my often-addled brain.  If that isn't the mark of a memorable novel, I don't know what is.ars, fulfilling our functions, not considering any sorts of consequences.<br />An astonishing thing has just happened:  While penning this review, I realized just how much I enjoyed the book.  It was confusing, bizarre, and often irritating.  But many of Vonnegut's themes have remained in my consciousness, continuing to dispense nuggets of thought to my often-addled brain.  If that isn't the mark of a memorable novel, I don't know what is.	2000-12-02
US	52473945	R1CB8LG8JOX33X	0451191935	321732450	Bachman Books: 4 Early Novels by Richard Bachman, Author of The Regulators	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good Stephen King primer	At a time when Stephen King felt that he might be inundating the market with too many novels at once, he decided to publish several novels under the guise of Richard Bachman, pulp novelist.  These novels would be simpler, quicker, less complex thematically and stylistically than the more mature novels he was beginning to create.  In other words, these were novels he wrote for fun, not for artistic fulfillment, or profit.<br />But, as he himself admits, it's hard to remain anonymous when the style is remarkably similar.  While some have commented that the Bachman Novels represent a departure in style for King, it is in fact the opposite;  the Bachman Novels, being more about storytelling and less about sales, are Stephen King at his essence.  They are gritty, gripping tales that are only designed to entertain.  This is Stephen King before he became enormous, and compelled to pen enormous tomes that would work just as well at half their length (Not that I didn't enjoy them, but sometimes [and it kills me to admit this] King could do with some judicious editing).  These tales are to Stephen King as the BOOKS OF BLOOD are to Clive Barker:  Concise, tight morality plays that are deeply disturbing and highly rewarding.<br />RAGE, the first novel, is a quietly creepy tale of a high-school student going insane.  In one heated afternoon, he kills his teacher, holds the class hostage, and proceeds to delve into the beginnings of his psychosis.  It's THE BREAKFAST CLUB on acid.  RAGE shows off King's ease at capturing a moment in time, one of those moments that remain in the memory forever.  His evocation of a slowly draining mind is as effective here as it was in PET SEMETARY.<br />Incidently, RAGE is the only novel that King admits he wishes he never wrote.  Several similar incidents have occured across the United States, and RAGE has been mentioned in connection with them.  Considering how sympathetic King is to his protagonist, it's easy to see how disillusioned teens would come to identify with its themes.<br />THE LONG WALK is a bizarre tale set in a deeply restricted future, with echoes of 1984 and THE HANDMAID'S TALE.  Every year in this warped society a contest is held, whereby young men volunteer to walk until they die, the winner receiving 'whatever he desires'.  This could be seen as quite prophetic, considering the inanities that were inflicted upon the public recently in the SURVIVOR game show.  While RAGE showed the disintigrating mind, THE LONG WALK adds the body to the equation, as the boys literally walk themselves into their graves.  It is a grim, depressing story of friendship, hope, and eventual betrayal and madness.  It also has parallels to Shirley Jackson's classic story, &quot;The Lottery&quot;.<br />ROADWORK is often cited as King's least work, and it's easy to see why:  It is a 'serious' novel about one man's lone fight against the government.  It has no real scares, and very little momentum.  But King does manage to create another indelible character, and its sad little story is quite effective in parts.<br />THE RUNNING MAN, adapted into a quite unimpressive Arnold Schwarzenegger film, may be the best story of the lot.  It is not complex, or tremedously deep by any regard.  But, as King states in his introduction, &quot;It moves&quot;.  THE RUNNING MAN starts off full speed, and never lets up.  It follows one contestant in a game show where the rules are simple:  Survive or die.  It sounds similar to THE LONG WALK, but where WALK progressed at a slow, steady pace, allowing the reader to feel every ache of the walkers, THE RUNNING MAN is a breathless action piece, with an ending that ranks among King's most downbeat, and most effective.  It would also make one hell of film, one far more effective and thoughtful than Schwarzenegger accomplished.  Perhaps with a snarling Bruce Willis in the lead, or Willem Dafoe?<br />Some have dismissed The Bachman Novels as sub-rate Stephen King, an excuse to make more money,and done more for novelty's sake than anything else.  But clear your mind of these prejudices.  These are really fine entertainments.  Not works of art, but certainly better than anything Dean Koontz ever wrote.and done more for novelty's sake than anything else.  But clear your mind of these prejudices.  These are really fine entertainments.  Not works of art, but certainly better than anything Dean Koontz ever wrote.	2000-11-28
US	52473945	R3VV2KZY9JC402	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	79	106	N	N	A classic that isn't any more	In my experience, when people talk of dystopian novels, inevitably two titles are mentioned:  1984, and A CLOCKWORK ORANGE.  And then, almost as an afterthought, &quot;Oh, yes, and BRAVE NEW WORLD&quot;.  While the first two remain astonishing and relevant works of art in today's world, Aldous Huxley's contribution (which pre-dates the others) always remains a distant third.  Why?<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD, while incredibly sophisticated considering when it was first published (1932), does not hold up as well in the world of 2000.  Its ideas are still potent, and it does remain a fascinating read.  Nevertheless, as an enduring masterpiece, it is deeply flawed.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD centres, more or less, around Bernard Marx, a sub-average Alpha.  Techniques in reproduction and eugenics have progressed to the point where 'mothers' (an incredibly filthy word) are no longer necessary;  babies are born in jars, and carefully cultivated and conditioned to accept their predetermined roles in life.  Alphas are the highest level;  intelligent, arrogant, strong and beautiful.  Lower down are Epsilons and Betas, lower caste persons who perform the more menial yet necessary functions of the society.  Bernard is an abnormality;  a rather weak and small Alpha speciman, who has deep yearnings to break free of the conformity of society.  This is as close to heresy as it can get.<br />Bernard gets permission to visit a Reservation, a place where progress has been disallowed.  There he meets John the Savage, a white male who has been raised among the Indian culture.  He decided to bring John back to civilization, where, predictably, culture shock sets in.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD has been hailed as a cautionary tale against rigid conformity and science, where the individual now exists to serve the advances of science, not the other way around.  This is indeed so, and Huxley's take on the theme is years ahead of its time.  His new world can be remarkably complex and exciting, and almost inviting in its ultimate ideals.<br />But much of BRAVE NEW WORLD does not inspire the reader in the same manner of 1984 and CLOCKWORK ORANGE.  In those novels, the worlds of tommorow, while equally vivid, also function as deep social satire.  BRAVE NEW WORLD, by contrast, reads like parody.  We do not enter the world of the novel, and see ourselves.  Rather, we laugh at it, seeing the folly of others.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD also lacks convincing narrative and characterizations.  Huxley's characters are mere props, used to fuel his ideas.  Never once do we empathize with anyone.  Characters come and go to illustrate points of view, but never to engage the reader.  Contrast this with 1984, where the reader connects so completely to Winston Smith that his eventual downfall breaks the heart.  Or CLORKWORK ORANGE, where Alex's murderous rampages are presented in such a form that the reader completely understands why he is the way he is.  In BRAVE NEW WORLD, the reader dispassionately views the actions of the characters, never once gaining any understanding.  Orwell and Burgess allow us to live in their worlds;  Huxley presents the world, but doesn't let us enter it.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD is still a thought-provoking experience.  It is fast-paced and thought-provoking.  But Huxley's world only exists as an idea.  It is smart, lucid, and entertaining.  It is a classic, in the sense of its lasting appeal and relevant subject matter.  It fails to be a literary classic, but not for lack of trying.ng in its ultimate ideals.<br />But much of BRAVE NEW WORLD does not inspire the reader in the same manner of 1984 and CLOCKWORK ORANGE.  In those novels, the worlds of tommorow, while equally vivid, also function as deep social satire.  BRAVE NEW WORLD, by contrast, reads like parody.  We do not enter the world of the novel, and see ourselves.  Rather, we laugh at it, seeing the folly of others.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD also lacks convincing narrative and characterizations.  Huxley's characters are mere props, used to fuel his ideas.  Never once do we empathize with anyone.  Characters come and go to illustrate points of view, but never to engage the reader.  Contrast this with 1984, where the reader connects so completely to Winston Smith that his eventual downfall breaks the heart.  Or CLORKWORK ORANGE, where Alex's murderous rampages are presented in such a form that the reader completely understands why he is the way he is.  In BRAVE NEW WORLD, the reader dispassionately views the actions of the characters, never once gaining any understanding.  Orwell and Burgess allow us to live in their worlds;  Huxley presents the world, but doesn't let us enter it.<br />BRAVE NEW WORLD is still a thought-provoking experience.  It is fast-paced and thought-provoking.  But Huxley's world only exists as an idea.  It is smart, lucid, and entertaining.  It is a classic, in the sense of its lasting appeal and relevant subject matter.  It fails to be a literary classic, but not for lack of trying.	2000-11-26
US	52473945	R2LYYXH2ZMQ6PX	0375701141	643771163	Night Train	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Leave it to the masters	What Martin Amis is best known as:<br />  A satirist of some reknown.<br />  A wizard with wordplay.<br />  An accute observer of mounting insanity.<br />  A man with a gift for the unusual.<br />What Martin Amis is NOT known as:<br />  Crime novelist.<br />Now, that may not be a completely fair assessment.  Amis has proved that he's not above trying new things.  And considering his often remarkable talent for vivid and offbeat dialogue, a crime novel seems like a good bet.  Something in the Dashiell Hammett genre, with tough private investigators and beautiful molls.<br />Amis does something along these lines, but give him his due, he's not afraid to bend the rules.  NIGHT TRAIN follows a particularly puzzling case being investigated by Mike Hoolihan.  Mike is not the usual jaded police officer.  For starters, Mike is a woman, although not nearly the most feminine woman around;  a chain-smoking alcoholic with a penchant for melancholy.  The case is the apparent suicide of the daughter of Colonel Tom Rockwell, Mike's mentor.  The Colonel is convinced it was not a suicide.  Mike can't belive it is, but can't find reason to believe it isn't, either.<br />Amis displays a ready wit, and a clear appreciation for the intense prose of the giants (Thompson, Ellroy, Goodis).  Mike is a cleverly drawn figure, a compelling and solid centre around which to build a plot.  And the plot itself, while unusual, is eminently readable, with several sub-themes running throughout.<br />Amis seems to be attempting a co-mingling of a simple pulp novel with dashes of philosophy, existentialism, and pathos.  But too often, NIGHT TRAIN reads as a parody of the crime novel.  Amis has the form right, but his heart isn't in the right place.  He tries too hard to be hard-boiled, coming across as the little brother to Elmore Leonard;  eager to please, emulating his big brother, but just can't compare.  Too clever for his own good.<br />Why did Amis write NIGHT TRAIN?  Was it simply to exercise his creative muscles?  Or was he attempting to subvert the genre, finding evil in the banal, and determined to prove that not every resolution is a satisfactory one?  Point taken, but Amis may have failed to realize that the great pulp stories are always more sophisticated and literate than they let on.  What Amis attempts has already been done, especially in the Jim Thompson novels.  And unlike portions of NIGHT TRAIN, Thompson didn't appear to be condescending to the masses.imply to exercise his creative muscles?  Or was he attempting to subvert the genre, finding evil in the banal, and determined to prove that not every resolution is a satisfactory one?  Point taken, but Amis may have failed to realize that the great pulp stories are always more sophisticated and literate than they let on.  What Amis attempts has already been done, especially in the Jim Thompson novels.  And unlike portions of NIGHT TRAIN, Thompson didn't appear to be condescending to the masses.	2000-11-23
US	52473945	R74ZQAVM3MBAH	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An Astonishing New Step for Roddy Doyle	One of the great perils for successful authors must be that point when they decide to 'stretch' their creative wings.  The horror writers pens an introspective character study (Stephen King - ROADWORK).  The English satirist attempts an American crime novel (Martin Amis - NIGHT TRAIN).  The crime novelist delves into science fiction (Walter Mosley - BLUE LIGHT).  At times like this, the fan base holds its collective breath, hoping for the best, fearing the worst.  After all, why mess with a good thing?<br />A STAR CALLED HENRY, thank God, is one of the good ones.  Great ones actually.<br />Previously, Irish novelist Roddy Doyle has focused his talents on life in modern-day Ireland.  His works have been small character studies, with simple plots that come alive through Doyle's ear for dialogue and eye for intriguing themes.  PADDY CLARKE HA HA HA, while considered a departure from his BARRYTOWN TRILOGY novels of blue collar Irish, was nevertheless a similar sort of story.  A very small, intimate view of remarkable characters.<br />But A STAR CALLED HENRY takes Doyle into the new realms of historical fiction.  In a story that can only be described as 'epic', Doyle traces the formative years of Henry Smart, street urchin turned IRA assassin, living at the beginning of the 20th century, as Ireland began to revolt against its English rulers.<br />Henry's beginnings show that Doyle has not traded his gift of characterization for narrative sweep.  Henry's starts his tale before he was conceived, as his well-meaning but young mother falls in love with Henry Senior, a one-legged bouncer and hitman.  With terrific economy of style, Doyle manages to convey both the excitement and desperation of Henry's life.  After his abandonment by his father (in a heart-wrenching scene of loneliness and betrayal), Henry takes to the streets.  But lest the reader believe that Doyle will begin to cultivate Henry as a loveable pickpocket a la OLIVER TWIST, the subject matter ensures that Henry's path will be a dark one.<br />As the years pass, and Henry grows into quite the ladies man (at 14 years old, no less), he becomes embroiled in the quickening Irish rebellion.  He becomes a hitman for the cause, and a student of famous IRA leaders, most notably Michael Collins.  He also marries Miss O'Shea, his elementary school teacher (for about two days), and together they begin to rewrite Irish history.<br />As I said, Doyle has not lost his knack for characters.  Henry is a true original, a vicious killer and confused young boy.  His relationship with Miss O'Shea is touching, if slightly bizarre.  His continued search for elements of his past through his book-reading Granny is a plot device of startling originality.<br />But Doyle also shows his new-found maturity as a writer in his mixture of fact and fiction.  He expertly traces the IRA rebellion, from its admirable roots to its disheartening failures.  It is not an exhaustive examination;  Henry himself is not one of the top men.  But enough information is given to enable the uninformed reader to understand the situation.  Doyle might have been tempted to flood the reader with names, dates, and events, but he wisely avoids the trap of simply listing famous events and putting Henry in the middle of them.  Every scene has a purpose.  While the revolution may be the backdrop, it is first and foremost Henry's story.<br />Doyle has proclaimed that A STAR CALLED HENRY is only the first volume in a planned epic entitled THE LAST ROUNDUP.  While I eagerly await the second volume, I am also cautiously afraid.  A STAR CALLED HENRY might be best left as a stand-alone novel.  Thinking of Larry McMurtry's LONESOME DOVE quartet (a terrific set, really, but arguably shouldn't have continued past STREETS OF LAREDO), I can only hope that Doyle keeps up the same level of quality.  Henry Smart is too fine a character to appear in sub-par sequels.'s path will be a dark one.<br />As the years pass, and Henry grows into quite the ladies man (at 14 years old, no less), he becomes embroiled in the quickening Irish rebellion.  He becomes a hitman for the cause, and a student of famous IRA leaders, most notably Michael Collins.  He also marries Miss O'Shea, his elementary school teacher (for about two days), and together they begin to rewrite Irish history.<br />As I said, Doyle has not lost his knack for characters.  Henry is a true original, a vicious killer and confused young boy.  His relationship with Miss O'Shea is touching, if slightly bizarre.  His continued search for elements of his past through his book-reading Granny is a plot device of startling originality.<br />But Doyle also shows his new-found maturity as a writer in his mixture of fact and fiction.  He expertly traces the IRA rebellion, from its admirable roots to its disheartening failures.  It is not an exhaustive examination;  Henry himself is not one of the top men.  But enough information is given to enable the uninformed reader to understand the situation.  Doyle might have been tempted to flood the reader with names, dates, and events, but he wisely avoids the trap of simply listing famous events and putting Henry in the middle of them.  Every scene has a purpose.  While the revolution may be the backdrop, it is first and foremost Henry's story.<br />Doyle has proclaimed that A STAR CALLED HENRY is only the first volume in a planned epic entitled THE LAST ROUNDUP.  While I eagerly await the second volume, I am also cautiously afraid.  A STAR CALLED HENRY might be best left as a stand-alone novel.  Thinking of Larry McMurtry's LONESOME DOVE quartet (a terrific set, really, but arguably shouldn't have continued past STREETS OF LAREDO), I can only hope that Doyle keeps up the same level of quality.  Henry Smart is too fine a character to appear in sub-par sequels.	2000-11-19
US	52473945	R47Q2GTIXI2ZV	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good King	I've had the unusual chance lately of reading both BAG OF BONES and THE SHINING at the same time.  I have been reading BONES quietly alone in my room, while I have been introducing my girlfriend to the world of Stephen King by reading THE SHINING aloud to her.  After comparing the two, it is interesting how BONES shows both King's maturation as a writer, and his weaknesses of late.<br />First, the good stuff.<br />BONES is a terrific story (set around Derry and Castle Rock, of course). It follows the life of Micheal Noonan, successful writer, as he copes with the death of his wife Jo.  While he seems emotionally adapted to live alone, he has a serious problem:  Mike can't write.  He is under a spell of SEVERE writer's block.  As he anguishes over it, he returns to his summer home, and discovers the possibility of new love, the long-sought return of his writing abilities, and several unusual occurances that seem to suggest that Mike Noonan's house (and he, as well) is haunted.<br />Once again, King proves that his best qualities come forth in the creation of his characters.  Even in his least successful novels, King has always shown a flair for characterization.  Noonan is a wonderful protagonist;  his grief at both the loss of his wife and livelihood is palpable.  (King might be using the author-as-hero ploy a bit too often.  Noonan might not be Stephen King himself, but he is a publishing relative (Robert R. McCammon, perhaps?))  The people he meets are equally entertaining, down to the smallest role.  Royce Merrill, an ancient crone with nothing to do but leer, is only in one scene that I recall, but his appearance remains with the reader.<br />While some have commented that King goes on too long in his desciptions of how the book world works, I find it adds to the story, and moves along quite enjoyably.  I also get the sense that this is the part of the novel that is TRULY autobiographical.<br />And while BONES may not have the horific thrust of other of King's works, King can still write suspense with the best.  A scene of Noonan's near-drowning, in absolutely absurd circumstances, is a marvel of descriptive terror.<br />Finally, as in most of King's stories of late, his reintroduction of people from other novels adds a good touch of insider humour.  There's Ralph Roberts from INSOMNIA, Norris Ridgewick from NEEDFUL THINGS, and we find out what happened to Thad Beaumont from THE DARK HALF.  These are minor touches, but it adds to the overall picture of his Maine novels.<br />Now the bad stuff.  Well, not bad.  Disappointing.<br />Perhaps it's a sign of our times, but what once may have been spooky is now merely second-nature to us.  In BONES, King's spectral manifestations makes themselves known by writing phrases with refridgerator magnets, and by thumping the walls and ringing bells. Reading these passages, I couldn't help but think of THE SHINING, where King creates monumental terror over a firehose that is lying in the middle of a hallway.  Not moving around, but simply lying in one place.  Ringing bells just can't compare.<br />King's final scenes (sorry, won't give away the ending here) are uneven as well.  As I read of Noonan's final battle, I couldn't help but think of the climax to THE HAUNTING (not the terrific original Julie Harris movie, but the remake with Liam Neeson).  The ending of the movie was not frightening at all.  Worse, with its overuse of special effects, it made me laugh.  Somehow, King's ending had overtones of the filmmaker's desperation at trying to wrap up the plot.<br />King also has an epilogue that functions as a sort of explanation of what happened previously.  The story may have needed it, but King's use of exposition reminds me of nothing so much as the ending to PSYCHO, where a detective calmly and rationally explains Norman Bates' psychosis.  It's a coda that doesn't work.<br />But that's quibbling.  King isn't out to scare the reader in the same manner as in THE SHINING or SALEM'S LOT.As Noonan's agent remarks on the newest publication, this is a new area that should reach a lot more readers (not that King is lacking in that department).  It's good Stephen King.  Not great, although at times, it is as good as anything he has ever written.As Noonan's agent remarks on the newest publication, this is a new area that should reach a lot more readers (not that King is lacking in that department).  It's good Stephen King.  Not great, although at times, it is as good as anything he has ever written.	2000-11-09
US	52473945	R3B34W1WCHGTT4	0345421477	502178528	Everybody Smokes in Hell	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Strong starter, but uneven finish	Has there been a filmmaker who has been more imitated in the last decade than Quentin Tarantino?  His use of language, his gift for plotting, and his knack for memorable characters (in the movies PULP FICTION, RESERVOIR DOGS and JACKIE BROWN) have inspired more bad movies and novels since George Lucas unleashed STAR WARS on the world.<br />Now, I am not trying to knock the credible talent that John Ridley has.  And perhaps it's unfair to complain of imitation.  After all, it is a form of flattery.  Tarantino himself admits the variety of sources and inspirations for his movies, including the novels of Elmore Leonard and Jim Thompson.  But that said, EVERYBODY SMOKES IN HELL is a novel that cries out for Tarantino to adapt it for the screen.  It is a movie of desperate people doing desperate things, of thugs and molls, gangsters and hitmen, and generally unpleasant people.  In fact, Tarantino might not attempt an adaptation purely for the reason that it is too similar to his earlier works (I found the tone and plot of EVERYBODY SMOKES to be remarkably similar to Tarantino's script for TRUE ROMANCE).<br />The plot is thus:  Paris Scott, a convenience store clerk in L.A., happens across the only recorded copy of a recently deceased rock star's magnum opus (shades of Kurt Cobain?).  He decides to cash in on this windfall, but due to a bizarre set of coincidences, combined with his own ineptitude, finds himself running away to Vegas, with a pile of corpses in his wake.<br />This is a well-written piece of modern pulp.  Ridley has created some memorable characters, each of whom is given just enough of a history for the reader to empathize with their plights.  And, truth be told, in the space of three pages, Ridley creates the most grotesquely funny suicide scene I can remember reading.  While some may deride the cinematic feel to the presentation (short chapters, quick cuts between scenes, vivid use of imagery), it works to the narrative's strength.  Ridley presents us with characters raised on exactly the type of pop culture EVERYBODY SMOKES is itself a part of.  Why shouldn't the writing style have the same goal?<br />But EVERYBODY SMOKES, as enjoyable as it is, can't hold its head up all the way to the end.  There are too many intertwining threads to be wrapped up in a neat little package.  The ending feels rushed, and while it may work on the movie screen, a novel is supposed to be capable of more depth than is on view here.  The final outcome is, if not disappointing, than disjointed.  I don't mean to imply that happy endings are better.  But EVERYBODY SMOKES, after setting up Paris so well, gives the reader a resolution that feels unsatisfying, incomplete.  There is the introduction of several new characters towards the end that seem to exist for no useful purpose.  And Paris' actions at the end are completely at odds with what happened before, and not believeable after all we've been told.<br />EVERYBODY SMOKES IN HELL is definitely worth reading.  It holds your attention from the first page to the last.  It is often so good, you wish it were better as a whole.th characters raised on exactly the type of pop culture EVERYBODY SMOKES is itself a part of.  Why shouldn't the writing style have the same goal?<br />But EVERYBODY SMOKES, as enjoyable as it is, can't hold its head up all the way to the end.  There are too many intertwining threads to be wrapped up in a neat little package.  The ending feels rushed, and while it may work on the movie screen, a novel is supposed to be capable of more depth than is on view here.  The final outcome is, if not disappointing, than disjointed.  I don't mean to imply that happy endings are better.  But EVERYBODY SMOKES, after setting up Paris so well, gives the reader a resolution that feels unsatisfying, incomplete.  There is the introduction of several new characters towards the end that seem to exist for no useful purpose.  And Paris' actions at the end are completely at odds with what happened before, and not believeable after all we've been told.<br />EVERYBODY SMOKES IN HELL is definitely worth reading.  It holds your attention from the first page to the last.  It is often so good, you wish it were better as a whole.	2000-10-31
US	52473945	R2HI81QC4P0DJQ	0393036448	594874910	Black Betty: An Easy Rawlins Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Multi-layered Mystery	After reading (or rereading) many of the classic detective novels in the past few months, I have come to two conclusions.  First, I read way too many detective novels.  Secondly (and more importantly), in all truly great hardboiled detective stories, the actual mystery is secondary.  Granted, a labyrinth plot that keeps one guessing is always a plus.  But all the true greats of crime fiction (Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler, James Ellroy et al.) have realized early one what has taken me some time to understand:  It is not the plot, it is the world the story occurs in that is important.  The finest mystery plot in the world means nothing if the reader does not believe the world presented actually exists, at least on the page.<br />I state this merely as a preamble to my main topic, the novel BLACK BETTY, by Walter Mosley.  It is a good mystery.  It has intrigue, deception, betrayal, racism, and murder.  It is complex enough to demand a second visit.  But, more important than the plot, Mosley has created the world of 1950's Los Angeles in such vivid and believable detail that you'd read the novel even if it were a mere travelogue.<br />BLACK BETTY marks the fourth appearance of Ezekiel &quot;Easy&quot; Rawlins, an unwilling investigator who is more concerned with providing his children with a good home than he is with solving a case.  It is to this end that he accepts an offer of two hundred dollars to track down Elizabeth Eady, a sultress from his past who has gone missing.  As Easy once again delves into the lives of others, he visits worlds he wishes to escape from, and worlds he wishes to join.  He also realizes that there is no real difference between them.<br />Easy ranks up with Phillip Marlowe and Sam Spade as one of the finest literary detectives.  He is tough, resourceful, intelligent, and oddly eloquent.  It's also good to see the return of Mouse, Easy's childhood friend/nightmare.  Mouse is a killer, and is all the more terrifying for his believability.  Like all of Mosley's characters, you get the impression that they have lives beyond the page, that they do not exist merely as foils for Easy.<br />But that is true of Easy's entire world.  In a few simple, elegent sentences, Mosley can describe a character more vividly than most authors can do with pages of exposition.  Their manners of speech, their beliefs, their dreams.  Mosley can size up an individual like almost no one else can.  Even minor characters, such as Ortiz and Jackson Blue, linger in the memory far longer than many lead characters of other novels.<br />Mosley's Easy stories, despite their being lumped into the sometimes simpleminded detective genre, are always more than they appear.  Mosley embues his writings with a palpable sense of rage.  The common, almost routine racism that Easy encounters every day gives the stories a compelling weight that his literary predecessor's sometimes lacked.  It is a viewpoint that could overwhelm the story, but Mosley is far too skilled to let it happen.  Even as Easy muses about Martin Luther King and &quot;the young Irish president&quot;, he understands the difference between political rhetoric and day-to-day reality.  Easy's world may be fictional on the surface, but it exists, and continues to exist all around us.<br />BLACK BETTY is a tremendous detective novel that works on many levels.  It is a fine example of the detective genre.  It is a perfectly realized world unto itself.  It is an indictment of how little we have advanced in the past fifty years.Like all of Mosley's characters, you get the impression that they have lives beyond the page, that they do not exist merely as foils for Easy.<br />But that is true of Easy's entire world.  In a few simple, elegent sentences, Mosley can describe a character more vividly than most authors can do with pages of exposition.  Their manners of speech, their beliefs, their dreams.  Mosley can size up an individual like almost no one else can.  Even minor characters, such as Ortiz and Jackson Blue, linger in the memory far longer than many lead characters of other novels.<br />Mosley's Easy stories, despite their being lumped into the sometimes simpleminded detective genre, are always more than they appear.  Mosley embues his writings with a palpable sense of rage.  The common, almost routine racism that Easy encounters every day gives the stories a compelling weight that his literary predecessor's sometimes lacked.  It is a viewpoint that could overwhelm the story, but Mosley is far too skilled to let it happen.  Even as Easy muses about Martin Luther King and &quot;the young Irish president&quot;, he understands the difference between political rhetoric and day-to-day reality.  Easy's world may be fictional on the surface, but it exists, and continues to exist all around us.<br />BLACK BETTY is a tremendous detective novel that works on many levels.  It is a fine example of the detective genre.  It is a perfectly realized world unto itself.  It is an indictment of how little we have advanced in the past fifty years.	2000-10-23
US	52473945	R28G0Q91B2Q5LM	0805041494	546686178	Still Waters	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fine for fans, possibly confusing for others	There are inherent perils in writing a series of novels based on the same set of characters.  Is the author simply rehashing the same theme over and over again?  Are the characters becoming too predictable?  Will readers new to the series understand what is going on, or will they feel excluded from the author's world for not begining at the first novel?  Is there any reason left to warrant delving into the characters' lives yet again?<br />These are pitfalls common to almost all authors.  The 'Burke' stories of Andrew Vachss are now constantly fighting self-parody.  Douglas Adams' HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE series arguably had no reason to continue after the third installment.  Joseph Heller destroyed his beloved CATCH-22 characters with the near-wretched CLOSING TIME.  And Tom Clancy's 'Jack Ryan' stories have become far less about Ryan, and more about Clancy's political views.<br />John Harvey's 'Charlie Resnick' series of British police procedurals are also fighting these traps.  While Harvey has consistently written taut, elegant meditations on the evils that society can fall victim to (see EASY MEAT), there remains the danger that he may alienate new readers who are not intimately familiar with Resnick's ways.  STILL WATERS is a finely written story, but newcomers to Resnick's universe may find themselves confused.<br />STILL WATERS finds Resnick, the resourceful British police officer, in a situation immediately identifiable to all.  He is rather anxious over his burgeoning relationship with English teacher Hannah, and also has job security issues over an ignored promotion possibility.  But while his overall routine may to similar to many, Harvey manages to inject new life into the familiar with Resnick's personal indentification with the seedier aspects of humanity.  But while Resnick may attempt to keep his professional and personal lives seperate, the murder of one of Hannah's friends brings his worlds together.<br />Harvey's novels have, as their main focus, the view that evil is just around the corner in all our lives.  In STILL WATERS, it is spousal abuse that receives the brunt of Harvey's attention.  Seemingly happy couples are revealed to exist in relationships of pain and suffering.<br />Harvey deals with this theme quite effectively, from many viewpoints.  He also refuses to serve as judge to his characters, presenting them as flawed examples of humanity, not incarnations of evil.  Harvey also never rules out the concept of redemption, however rare that commodity may be.<br />But as STILL WATERS is one novel of many, Harvey has other issues to deal with as well.  There is Lynn Kellogg, a fellow officer who would rather transfer out than deal with her past relationship with Resnick.  There is Mark Divine, a police officer who was raped in a previous novel, and has become increasingly violent.  There is Carl Vincent, a homosexual officer in a profession not known for tolerance.  Harvey manages to touch on all of their lives, but some of it seems unnecessary.  A new reader may be confused by characters who seem to be integral elements of the plot, yet never appear again.  At times, STILL WATERS resembles a novel between novels, an opportunity to catch up on the lives of the characters, but not an especially interesting story in and of itself.<br />Possibly because of this, STILL WATERS is not an altogether successful novel.  Perhaps Harvey should have centred solely on the murder of Hannah's friend, and its immediate effects on Resnick's life.  Harvey gives too much information on other areas to advance this plot.  There is also a subplot involving art theft that never adequately fits into the whole, with a resolution that feels rushed and unfinished.<br />But Harvey is still a fine writer.  His individual scenes of Resnick's personal life with Hannah are touching and realistic, and his scenes involving the spousal abuse are chilling.  And Resnick is a terrific literary character, a flawed and deeply troubled man who canalways be counted on to find the appropriate jazz analogy.  STILL WATERS is worth reading, but it is more effective for the already-initiated than the reader who is discovering Harvey for the first time.an always be counted on to find the appropriate jazz analogy.  STILL WATERS is worth reading, but it is more effective for the already-initiated than the reader who is discovering Harvey for the first time.	2000-10-22
US	52473945	R1Y3MKYBLOVALF	1569247145	407471875	Dr. Rat	Books	5	5	7	N	N	At last, the Truth!	Hello, all!  Doctor Rat here, back from my self-imposed exile down a deserted gopher hole.  While my sojourn has provided a delightful respite from the civilized society of man, I felt I must emerge from my sabbatical to impart a few words of wisdom in re Mr. William Kotzwinkle's most delightful offering, Doctor Rat.<br />Mind you, my return to the public eye has not been easy.  There are plenty of humaniacs out there who would gladly see me strung out on a rack (see my article, The Tensile Strength of Rat Ligaments, Journal of Modern Medicine).  I have procured the use of the above alias from a devoted reader to ensure my continued safety.  So, to those who would see me as some sort of monstrosity, I say, take that, rebel scum!  I shall not be silenced!  The insane Doctor Rat must be heard!<br />The Learned Mr. Kotzwinkle has provided my disgust for these rebels with a reprieve.  His fluid, almost lyrical quality of writing has soothed my troubled brow, to some extent.  It certainly comes as a relief that my efforts in the laboratory have not gone unnoticed.  After all, when you have devoted the bulk of your post-insanity life toward the advancement of science through animal vivisection, you do expect some rewards.  How many members of the animal kingdom had to be peeled, boiled, castrated, blinded, and used in other such important experiments, in order that I receive my due?  Quite a few, I would imagine.  Quite a few.<br />The factual elements of those few fateful days in the laboratory must be examined.  I, the Learned and Insane Doctor Rat, was making my usual rounds among the test subjects, trying (in vain, as it turned out) to quell the rumours of rebellion that had begun to circulate.  I firmly believe that if it weren't for a few unpleasant individuals prodding their opinions onto the masses, my slogan of Death is Freedom! would have saved the day.  Alas, it was not to be.  I tell you, some animals simply cannot see the value of scientific experimentation at all (see my article, The Innate Stubbornness of the Common Canine, American Medicine Today).<br />To ensure my lasting immortality among those bright enough amongst you to see the accuracy of my beliefs, I must point out that I was only one rat against many.  I did my best.  Read the novel, you'll see!  I took down many rebel rat in my adventure!  But, as was patently obvious, the entire world was against me!  I tried, I tell you!<br />It must be said, that Mr. Kotzwinkle is a humaniac of the highest order.  His continuing attempts to include other creatures in the narrative are distressing, to say the least.  So a few whales were harpooned!  So a few dogs were incinerated!  So all of humanity laid waste to every single animal on the planet!  Does that alter the rightness of man's continued superiority over all?  Not in the slightest!  He's earned it!  Might makes right!<br />So man has made a few mistakes in the name of scientific curiosity.  What of it?  As Mr. Kotzwinkle makes abundantly clear, scientific testing on animals is a good thing.  What would we do without it?  Life would be so much more complex if man were to actually contemplate the nature of his actions.  As a clearly insane rat, I can tell you with all honesty, Man comes before all.  And I, the frightfully mad Doctor Rat, am finally vindicated.  Read the book.  You'll see.  Death is freedom!t all (see my article, The Innate Stubbornness of the Common Canine, American Medicine Today).<br />To ensure my lasting immortality among those bright enough amongst you to see the accuracy of my beliefs, I must point out that I was only one rat against many.  I did my best.  Read the novel, you'll see!  I took down many rebel rat in my adventure!  But, as was patently obvious, the entire world was against me!  I tried, I tell you!<br />It must be said, that Mr. Kotzwinkle is a humaniac of the highest order.  His continuing attempts to include other creatures in the narrative are distressing, to say the least.  So a few whales were harpooned!  So a few dogs were incinerated!  So all of humanity laid waste to every single animal on the planet!  Does that alter the rightness of man's continued superiority over all?  Not in the slightest!  He's earned it!  Might makes right!<br />So man has made a few mistakes in the name of scientific curiosity.  What of it?  As Mr. Kotzwinkle makes abundantly clear, scientific testing on animals is a good thing.  What would we do without it?  Life would be so much more complex if man were to actually contemplate the nature of his actions.  As a clearly insane rat, I can tell you with all honesty, Man comes before all.  And I, the frightfully mad Doctor Rat, am finally vindicated.  Read the book.  You'll see.  Death is freedom!	2000-10-17
US	52473945	R3E1GP06AY0JJO	0671746049	742903374	Closing Time	Books	2	98	111	N	N	A Good Argument for the Abolition of All Sequels	I read Joseph Heller's CATCH-22 on a rainy day, with nothing to do but gaze at the novels my father had collected over the years.  Plunging in to avert crushing boredom, I discovered what all readers before me have, the absolute brilliance of it.  CATCH-22 is one of the finest war novels I have read, surpassing even M*A*S*H* and THE SHORT-TIMERS in its audacious mix of humour, horror, and insanity.  I also was overwhelmed by the fact that this was Heller's first novel.  When I completed it, I rushed to a second-hand bookstore to buy CLOSING TIME.  I had become such an instant fan of Heller's work, that it never crossed my mind that some things are better left alone.<br />Why, oh why, did Heller pen CLOSING TIME?  CATCH-22 did not need a continuation.  It was lightning in a bottle, a once-in-a-lifetime event that could never be repeated.  But Heller, late in his career, decided, for better or for worse, that Yossarian and Milo Minderbinder had lives worth examining yet again.<br />The plot begins with Yossarian (whom I desperately wanted to meet after finishing CATCH-22) in a hospital, now older, still bitter, but unfortunately, not funny.  As the labyrinth storyline progresses, Yossarian bumps up against a plethora of eccentric characters, both old friends and new enemies.  There's the Chaplain (who can produce heavy water from his bowels), a president addicted to videogames, a bizarre wedding coordinator with dreams of the ideal society wedding within a decrepit bus station, and Milo, the schemer extrordinaire, now trying to sell invisible bombers to clueless generals.  All this, plus a subplot in an underground playworld that may or may not be Hell.<br />Why doesn't this work?  Part of the problem, I believe, is that CATCH-22 had a genuinely insane setting in which to place its insane characters.  The comparison of war with mental imbalance may not be new, but CATCH-22 made it fresh and invigorating.  CLOSING TIME finds Heller without such a setting, frantically trying to create insanity where there was none before.  It's not enough to simply show nutty people;  they need a context in which they can flourish.  CLOSING TIME doesn't provide them with one.<br />Is it fair to keep comparing CLOSING TIME to CATCH-22?  Probably not, but Heller invites the comparison.  Reading CLOSING TIME is akin to attending your high school reunion. You meet all the people you once knew and loved, but despite your being glad to see them, you leave in a sonewhat depressed state.  You've grown up, but they haven't.  They were fun in school, but in the real world, you can't wait for them to leave you alone.rying to create insanity where there was none before.  It's not enough to simply show nutty people;  they need a context in which they can flourish.  CLOSING TIME doesn't provide them with one.<br />Is it fair to keep comparing CLOSING TIME to CATCH-22?  Probably not, but Heller invites the comparison.  Reading CLOSING TIME is akin to attending your high school reunion. You meet all the people you once knew and loved, but despite your being glad to see them, you leave in a sonewhat depressed state.  You've grown up, but they haven't.  They were fun in school, but in the real world, you can't wait for them to leave you alone.	2000-10-12
US	52473945	R238YXPBIIZU45	0393318451	12267048	The Universal Donor (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Atypical Love Story	THE UNIVERSAL DONOR was not what I expected.  Put another way, THE UNIVERSAL DONOR was not what the book jacket led me to believe it was.  I expected a medical thriller, complete with a slowly perishing heroine, and a mighty and resourceful hero fighting both time and fatigue as he races to find a cure.  In other words, I expected a novel I don't usually enjoy.  But John Irving admires the author (or so the book jacket would have you believe), and being an admirer of John Irving, I decided to forego my usual misgivings about the Robin Cook-type plot, and give it a read.<br />But DONOR is not what the jacket says it is.  It has the skeleton of the story right, but it has the muscles all wrong.  It is not a thriller, in the usual sense.  It is a love story.  And by this, I do NOT mean it is a 'romance' novel.  It is a love story, with all the pain and suffering that goes along with it.<br />It centres around Terry McKechnie, an emergency room doctor, during the time of the Los Angeles riots.  His lover, Virginia Lee, has been bitten by a rare snake, and he must do all he can to save her.<br />As I said, it sounds like a fairly routine 'doomed romance' scenario.  But author Craig Nova uses the poisoning only as a pretext, going back in time to present their entire affair.  And it IS an affair, as Virginia is married to an old schoolmate of Terry's.  But, instead of the more expected &quot;Oh, we're such bad people, but we can't help ourselves!&quot;, with much hand-wringing and gentle sobbing, Nova has presented one of the most realistic extra-marital affairs I've read.<br />Virginia and Terry are both deeply flawed people who realize their mistakes, but, like all of us, have a hard time dealing with them.  Their initial meeting at a hotel is deeply moving, and Nova captures both the excitement and the horror of what they are contemplating.<br />Nova's skill at playing several emotions off each other is shown to best effect in a scene where Terry and Virginia sit down in a hospital cafeteria to discuss there feelings.  A nearby stranger interupts the conversation from time to time, and it is only until a few pages later that the reader realizes the lovers are no longer simply talking, they are afraid for their lives.  Nova's interplay of Terry and Virginia's conversation with the increasingly forbidding presence of the stranger is a wonder of suspense and emotion.<br />Nova has not written an altogether perfect novel.  His introduction of a subplot involving Virginia's rare blood type,  and a possible donor, stretches the bounds of coincidence and credibility.  It is effectively written, but it detracts from the more effective and absorbing main storyline.  It is this subplot that the publisher emphasizes on the cover, resulting in readers who may not appreciate the subtleties of Nova's work (see other reviews, below).  THE UNIVERSAL DONOR is not that sort of story.  It is a meditation on the consequences of love, and deserves a far larger audience than the jacket aims for.in a hospital cafeteria to discuss there feelings.  A nearby stranger interupts the conversation from time to time, and it is only until a few pages later that the reader realizes the lovers are no longer simply talking, they are afraid for their lives.  Nova's interplay of Terry and Virginia's conversation with the increasingly forbidding presence of the stranger is a wonder of suspense and emotion.<br />Nova has not written an altogether perfect novel.  His introduction of a subplot involving Virginia's rare blood type,  and a possible donor, stretches the bounds of coincidence and credibility.  It is effectively written, but it detracts from the more effective and absorbing main storyline.  It is this subplot that the publisher emphasizes on the cover, resulting in readers who may not appreciate the subtleties of Nova's work (see other reviews, below).  THE UNIVERSAL DONOR is not that sort of story.  It is a meditation on the consequences of love, and deserves a far larger audience than the jacket aims for.	2000-10-10
US	52473945	RBAAEJI5K4SG1	0679781293	222744857	Flood	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Gritty Urban Revenge Fantasy	What is it about revenge that makes it such a vicariously satisfying experience?  While most people would never act on their impulses for it, the desire for vengeance can be an overwhelming pleasure.  To read about, or see, characters who follow their baser emotions can make for a thrilling ride.<br />Enter Andrew Vachss.  A lawyer who has specialized in crimes against children, Vachss has condensed and distilled all his rage on the subject, and has created a revenge fantasy that may be one of the nastiest stories put to page.<br />FLOOD, Vachss' first novel, introduces the reader to Burke, an anti-hero like no other.  Not necessarily a hitman, Burke is more of an avenging angel for hire, if he can be convinced the cause is worthy, and his Neopolitan mastiff Pansy doesn't rip a prospective client to shreds.  His existence consists of an odd assortment of hookers, restaurant owners, gambling, and Max the Silent, his spiritual brother, and possibly the most dangerous man on Earth.<br />Into this world enters Flood, a woman with a dilemma. She wants Burke to find a man.  When he is found, she will kill him.  Burke doesn't immediately jump at the opportunity, but the man Flood wants is, among other things, a pedophile.  For reasons that are his own, Burke has a particular intense hatred for child molesters.  Soon enough, he agrees to help, for a price.<br />Vachss' novels (this is the first of many Burke novels) are as hard-boiled as they come.  The characters can be seen as ridiculous in the light of day, but in Vachss' hands, they take on an eerie nobility.  I say eerie, because in most circumstances, you would never sit next to any of his characters on a bus.  It's quite a feat to write novels based on people you'd be afraid to even glance at, and still make them entertaining.  But Vachss has a genuine empathy for his characters.  His novels are not disposable.  They are far too well-written to be dismissed as mere 'entertainment'.<br />There are some who might gripe about the uneasy moral tones of the novel.  The idea of taking the law into your own hands is a repugnant quality in most aspects of our lives.  But almost all literary heroes can be defined as loners who work outside of convention.  Is Burke different than any number of fictional characters who do what we cannot, or dare not?  Burke himself realizes that his universe is not for everyone.  He did not create the world, he only does what he can to survive within it.<br />Burke's world is fictional, to an extent.  The underbelly of society he inhabits may be seductive in its way, but it is a heightened reality that is hard to swallow sometimes.  But Vachss is an able tourguide.  And he understands what makes revenge such an irresistible emotion, and a dangerous one as well.about the uneasy moral tones of the novel.  The idea of taking the law into your own hands is a repugnant quality in most aspects of our lives.  But almost all literary heroes can be defined as loners who work outside of convention.  Is Burke different than any number of fictional characters who do what we cannot, or dare not?  Burke himself realizes that his universe is not for everyone.  He did not create the world, he only does what he can to survive within it.<br />Burke's world is fictional, to an extent.  The underbelly of society he inhabits may be seductive in its way, but it is a heightened reality that is hard to swallow sometimes.  But Vachss is an able tourguide.  And he understands what makes revenge such an irresistible emotion, and a dangerous one as well.	2000-10-07
US	52473945	RB7OEOWD44AH9	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Great Twist in the Detective Genre	While I enjoy a good mystery, the problem with most of them is that the plot has been done to death.  Man murders wife.  Woman steals diamond.  Cute old lady solves crime.  The characters may be new, but the plots are so . . . familiar.<br />On that basis alone, THE CLUB DUMAS is worthy of high praise.  The plot is unpredictable, for the reason that you've never read a story like it.  It's a breath of fresh air, while still adhering to the basic tenets of the mystery genre.  It has a well-worn hero, a mysterious woman, an evil henchman, and murders upon murders.  It also has (let me get my other list) terrific dialogue about the nature of literature, motives that I've never even considered, and the love of a good conversation.<br />THE CLUB DUMAS begins simply enough, with a detective tracking down a source.  But right from the start, something is just slightly tweaked.  Lucas Corso is a book detective, trying to authenticate a handwritten transcript of THE THREE MUSKETEERS.  It may sound boring, but quite soon, Corso is being stalked, in a tangled web that includes a murderous widow, twin book forgers, devil worship, regret over lost love, and insanity.<br />It reminded me, slightly, of FALLING ANGEL, by William Hjortsberg.  It, too, followed a world-weary detective on a quest into the heart of evil.  But ANGEL, as good as it is, doesn't have CLUB's flair for the unobvious.  Author Arturo Perez-Reverte knows how to construct a plot, but he also has a keen insight into a rarely-viewed segment of our population;  the book collector, in all his or her's eccentricities.<br />THE CLUB DUMAS is a mystery that will keep you guessing, but it's more than that.  It is an essay on the quality of imagination.  It is a mystery for book-lovers, not just mystery-lovers.  It is a remarkably smart book.<br />P.S. - If you've happened to see the movie adaptation of THE CLUB DUMAS, entitled THE NINTH GATE, don't be dissuaded from reading the novel.  THE NINTH GATE drops entire plot lines, and does not detract from the enjoyment of the novel in the slightest.  It also isn't very good.  In the words of my brother-in-law, &quot;This could have been the best movie I've ever seen, until about the half-way point.  Then, what happened?&quot;  The movie is boring, the novel is amazing.ines, and does not detract from the enjoyment of the novel in the slightest.  It also isn't very good.  In the words of my brother-in-law, &quot;This could have been the best movie I've ever seen, until about the half-way point.  Then, what happened?&quot;  The movie is boring, the novel is amazing.	2000-10-05
US	52473945	R28LDU761353FN	0679733132	631405199	The Alcoholics	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Not Every Novel Can Be a Great One	Jim Thompson is now widely regarded as one of the best crime novelists of the twentieth century.  His mix of hard-boiled prose, slimy protagonists and offbeat plots helped put the 'pulp' in pulp fiction.  While he may not have been recognized in his own time to any great extent, his influence can be seen in most crime fiction published today, from James Ellroy through Carl Hiassen to Elmore Leonard.<br />But everyone has an off day.<br />THE ALCOHOLICS is a shambling mess of a novel, a plotless and ultimately pointless story of, what else, alcoholics at a run-down detox centre.  This does not have to be bad.  One can envision a black comedy satire about such a place.  ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST covered the same territory in a mental asylum.  But Thompson, while showing his usual flair for oddball, unlikeable characters, has placed them within a story that has no drive.<br />It centres around Dr. Peter Murphy, a recovering alcoholic himself (of course), who runs a detox centre which is constantly on the verge of financial destruction.  Along with the patients, he has a nurse with a bizarre mean streak, and an orderly with a unique method of medical malpractice.  &quot;The inmates are loose, and are running the asylum&quot;, is a trite, although apt description of the place.<br />Now, unlikeable characters do not necessarily ruin a novel.  Consider M*A*S*H* (the novel), in which some severely unusual people treat each other with hideous cruelty, all to keep from going mad themselves.  But where M*A*S*H* had a narrative drive and a deeply felt sense of outrage, THE ALCOHOLICS has scene upon scene of drunks acting stupidly, and doctors acting stupidly, and nurses behaving stupidly, etc.  What Thompson has forgotten is to have a point to the whole thing.<br />Jim Thompson has had a literary revival in the past few years, thanks to Black Lizard Publishing.  But the rush to rediscover a master should not cloud people's minds to the fact that not everything can be great, and not everything is deserving of publication.  Let's file THE ALCOHOLICS alongside the other books written by fine writers on really bad days.  CLOSING TIME by Joseph Heller.  ISLANDS IN THE STREAM by Ernest Hemingway.  THE ALCOHOLICS is in fine company.t, and not everything is deserving of publication.  Let's file THE ALCOHOLICS alongside the other books written by fine writers on really bad days.  CLOSING TIME by Joseph Heller.  ISLANDS IN THE STREAM by Ernest Hemingway.  THE ALCOHOLICS is in fine company.	2000-10-05
US	52473945	R3RURDIYHGWPMB	0385254407	194769221	Savage Messiah	Books	3	18	18	N	N	An interesting but hardly insightful view of an evil man	I have an odd perspective when it comes to SAVAGE MESSIAH.  Several years ago, I was cast in the lead role of cult leader Roch Theriault in a proposed movie adaptation of his reign of horror.  The movie never got made (for reasons upon reasons), but as a result, I spent a fair amount of time doing research on cult figures.  It was to my good fortune to come across SAVAGE MESSIAH in a used bookstore.<br />Unfortunately, despite the incredible subject, MESSIAH is not an in-depth portrait of the man.  What it is, is a blow-by-blow account of his horrific actions as a self-professed 'Moses', who ruled his followers in Quebec with sickening brutality.<br />Theriault and his 'family' of assorted followers, set up a camp in Quebec, believing his rants about the Second coming and the end of the world.  While they may have envisioned an idyllic life in the woods, what resulted from their isolation was Theriault's increasingly bizarre and harmful state-of-mind.  He took his disciples' wives as his own, forbidding the men to ever touch them.  He fathered many children with all of them.  He forbid them to eat, while he grew quite large.  In drunken rages, he would mutilate them, performing 'operations' without anesthetic.  He amputated one woman's arm.  Another woman died as a result of his 'surgery'.  He kept pieces of her in a jar.  And this is not nearly as bad as it got.  There is a two page 'list' of various other punishments he bestowed upon his disciples that is the most sickening thing I have ever read.<br />MESSIAH never becomes a tabloid-style report, which is to its credit.  There's nothing sensationalistic about the presentation.  And you would be hard pressed to make a boring book out of the subject matter.  But it is simply reporting the facts.  It never really succeeds in making the reader understand either Roch or his followers.  Why would they put up with his insane ways?  This went on for YEARS.<br />SAVAGE MESSIAH is still worth reading.  I have no doubt that Roch Theriault (now in prison, although I believe he's up for parole soon) is one of the most evil people to ever walk the face of the Earth. But the book offers little insight into why he acted in this way, or more importantly, why anyone would believe him.  Read it for the knowledge that true evil does exist.  Don't read it if you're looking for an explanation why.Roch Theriault (now in prison, although I believe he's up for parole soon) is one of the most evil people to ever walk the face of the Earth. But the book offers little insight into why he acted in this way, or more importantly, why anyone would believe him.  Read it for the knowledge that true evil does exist.  Don't read it if you're looking for an explanation why.	2000-10-03
US	52473945	R28CNJ76DU06OD	0061052442	963748395	Incarnations: Three Plays by	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One Astonishing Play, One Good, One Unsuccessful	A few years ago, I picked up a copy of PANDEMONIUM, a softcover overview of Clive Barker's works.  While I found most of the material interesting, what blew me away was the first ever printing of Barker's THE HISTORY OF THE DEVIL.  Quite simply, it is one of the best plays I have ever read.  It is demanding, thought-provoking, funny, obscene, and brilliant.<br />HISTORY is centred around the trial of the Devil.  It is not so much a criminal proceeding, than it is an evaluation of his works on Earth.  If he wins, he may re-enter Heaven.  And as his history is re-enacted on stage, lawyers both for and against his case struggle to find a legal way to keep him where he belongs.<br />As in most of Barker's works,  a simple description doesn't do it justice.  HISTORY is an amazingly theatrical experience, all rooted in one of the most intriguing views of the Devil that I have read.  While not being familiar with the more classical works of Dante and Milton, I can say that Barker's Devil is a far more satisfying and frightening figure than the demon presented in Anne Rice's MEMNOCH THE DEVIL.  The play also presents one of the most original and shocking endings I have ever read, in a play or a novel.<br />The other two plays presented in INCANTATIONS are a mixed bag.  FRANKENSTEIN IN LOVE is the more satisfying of the two.  In a re-imagining of Mary Shelley's work, FRANKENSTEIN occurs in third world dictatorship, full of chaos and mystery.  If I am not as enthusiastic as I am about HISTORY, it is that Barker's ideas in FRANKENSTEIN don't wholly combine.  It has humour, horror, an astonishing amount of gore (I don't know HOW this would ever be staged), but by the end, the horror has taken over the story.  It leaves you wishing for more of a coherent ending.  Still, some scenes do remain in the mind, especially the scenes involving the dead, but still animated narrator.<br />Barker's third play, COLOSSUS, is the least of the three.  Ostensibly, it surrounds the Spanish painter Goya, as he stumbles around after a tremendous bombing has destroyed a large portion of an estate.  As I don't know anything of Goya, I can't speak as to the effectiveness of the sets in bringing out the mood of his paintings, as Barker suggests.  But the play doesn't hold water.  It is a amalgamation of confusing characters and odd dialogue.  It has an unfinished feel to it.  As this was one of Barker's earlier works, perhaps he can be forgiven it biting off more than he can figuratively chew.  But as a published work, it functions as a curiosity, not a fully-formed play.<br />Still, Barker is one of the more interesting writers around.  He's always willing to try and push the envelope, instead of resting on his laurels (anyone read Dean Koontz lately?).  Read FRANKENSTEIN IN LOVE and COLOSSUS for the ideas.  Read THE HISTORY OF THE DEVIL for the experience.  It really is that good.er Goya, as he stumbles around after a tremendous bombing has destroyed a large portion of an estate.  As I don't know anything of Goya, I can't speak as to the effectiveness of the sets in bringing out the mood of his paintings, as Barker suggests.  But the play doesn't hold water.  It is a amalgamation of confusing characters and odd dialogue.  It has an unfinished feel to it.  As this was one of Barker's earlier works, perhaps he can be forgiven it biting off more than he can figuratively chew.  But as a published work, it functions as a curiosity, not a fully-formed play.<br />Still, Barker is one of the more interesting writers around.  He's always willing to try and push the envelope, instead of resting on his laurels (anyone read Dean Koontz lately?).  Read FRANKENSTEIN IN LOVE and COLOSSUS for the ideas.  Read THE HISTORY OF THE DEVIL for the experience.  It really is that good.	2000-10-03
US	52473945	R1IUS9FLG0EYVS	0440107601	138277602	The Boys from Brazil	Books	2	14	31	N	N	A thriller that has not aged well	THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL is one of those novels that you hear about, but never find the time to read.  It sits on the library shelf, desperately awaiting the rare occasion when someone is overcome by their curiosity, and decides to give it a chance.<br />That's what happened to me.  Unfortunately, the above tale of library derring-do is about as exciting as anything found within Ira Levin's tale.<br />It starts off compellingly enough.  A group of former Nazis meet to discuss the details for a new attempt at world domination.  Dr. Josef Mengele is discovered to be involved, and it is up to Nazi-hunter Liebermann to unearth the sinister plot.<br />So far, so good.  All the elements of good pulp fiction are in place.  And let's not be fooled:  Despite the theme of renewed Nazi powers, this IS a pulp novel.  Nothing wrong with that, really.  But it's not a GOOD pulp novel.<br />A large part of the problem is the cartoonish nature of the lead characters, particularily Mengele.  He is a truly evil man, in all respects, but his actions in BOYS tend to create giggles, in the place of fear.  As well, his fanatical devoltion to Adolf Hitler, which in reality is a cause for great alarm, comes across on the page as rather silly.<br />Some may claim the novel has more relevance in today's climate of cloning advances, but that's hogwash.  BOYS is not a cautionary tale of the horrors of science.  What it is, is ridiculous.  And barely entertaining.<br />Still, some scenes do serve to help the novel pass the time.  The final confrontation is well paced, if overblown.  There are some asides as to the importance of war crimes tribunals that certainly remain relevant today.  And it is certainly better than Ken Follett's THE THIRD TWIN, another thriller based on cloning that is one of the worst [books] I've ever read.  But where TWIN is garbage, BOYS is merely innocuous.  It may have been groundbreaking when it was written, but it functions more as a curiosity now than anything else.	2000-10-02
US	52473945	R286LMO9VZDN3A	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Best Jim Thompson Book Since Jim Thompson	Is there a human instinct more deplorable than greed?  After reading A SIMPLE PLAN, you'd be hard pressed to argue.<br />A SIMPLE PLAN is about ordinary people realizing that they can do extrordinary things.  Extrordinarily BAD things.  Brothers Hank and Jacob, along with drinking buddy Lou, stumble upon a stash of millions of dollars.  They decide to wait to see if the money is being looked for, and while they wait, the depths that human beings can succumb to are slowly revealed.<br />As in the best works of Jim Thompson, A SIMPLE PLAN follows normal people in deplorable circumstances.  Author Scott Smith draws the noose around the characters' necks tighter and tighter, with each consectutive move drawing them in deeper.<br />The great thing about Smith's plot is that it is logical.  Each step leads from the previous one, with no deus ex machina used to save the characters from their own personal hell.  They have no choice but to continue along the path they've chosen.<br />Like THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE, A SIMPLE PLAN is a terrific treatise on the consequences of the basest of human emotions.  It should be required reading for anyone who is interested in the human condition.	2000-10-01
US	52473945	R14JV1E2TLCNC7	0679772677	303723286	A Civil Action	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Civil?	&quot;The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.&quot;<br />With all due respect to William Shakespeare, not all lawyers live down to their reputation.  While the practice is very much maligned, every so often a case comes around that reminds the public of how important a lawyer can be.  Such is the case with Jonathan Harr's A CIVIL ACTION.<br />Let's be blunt; this is not the feel-good story that most John Grisham novels turn out to be.  This is the true story of overly-confident lawyers getting in way over their heads, and losing sight of the reason they took the case.  This is a story of truth, but not necessarily a story about justice.<br />Harr follows the case of several families from Woburn, Massachusetts, who bring a civil action against Beatrice and Grace, two corporate powers who may have poisoned their water supply.  Harr centres his coverage around Jan Schlichtmann, a young hotshot attorney who takes the case against his better judgment.  It sounds like your basic legal thriller, but it's far from basic.<br />Schlichtmann is the ultimate hero; a man driven to despair as he fights a foe he cannot hope to defeat.  But what truly is astonishing about Schlichtmann (and his legal crew) is that they carry on to the bitter end, despite losing practically everything.  And it IS a bitter end.<br />This is not simply a blow-by-blow discription of the case, although Harr explains the process remarkably clearly.  Harr follows Schlichtmann's personal trek, through his remarable highs to his incredible lows.  As the firm stuggles to make ends meet (spending over two million dollars as the case continues), we witness Schlichtmann's own private descent, from owning all, to owning nothing.  Literally nothing.<br />Harr reports the case dispassionately, neither praising nor judging Schlichtmann over the five year span of the case.  Neither does Harr judge the defence of Beatrice and Grace.  Harr simply reports, and accomplishes a minor miracle; he keeps the reader's attention up, despite the length and boredom of the trial process itself.  From gruelling week-long testimony of witnesses, to the backstage schenanigans of the various characters, Harr keeps up the pace, leaving the reader gripped until the very end.<br />You can read A CIVIL ACTION on many levels; as a primer for the American trial process; as an exploration into the flaws of the legal system; as a description of the limits of human endurance; as a witness to the destruction of a man's sanity; or as a straight legal thriller.  What makes A CIVIL ACTION really worth reading is that it is all of the above.'s attention up, despite the length and boredom of the trial process itself.  From gruelling week-long testimony of witnesses, to the backstage schenanigans of the various characters, Harr keeps up the pace, leaving the reader gripped until the very end.<br />You can read A CIVIL ACTION on many levels; as a primer for the American trial process; as an exploration into the flaws of the legal system; as a description of the limits of human endurance; as a witness to the destruction of a man's sanity; or as a straight legal thriller.  What makes A CIVIL ACTION really worth reading is that it is all of the above.	2000-09-28
US	52473945	R7JK6TNEHPEUA	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Written purely for the money	Michael Crichton has never been a terribly innovative or remarkable author.  He has little to no skill with characterization, and is usually content to let his cardboard cut-outs wander about in his plots and technical jargon.<br />Often, this can lead to entertaining, if not precisely thought-provoking reading.  THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN is a great adventure story.  As is SPHERE, although it should stand as the supreme example of how a book that literally begs to be made into a movie sometimes shouldn't be.<br />But LOST WORLD is different than Crichton's previous publications.  His characters are still wafer-thin, but now, Crichton has dispensed with plot as well, and the result?  A very boring read.<br />JURASSIC PARK did not need a sequel, it worked fine on its own.  But the movie was successful.  So a sequel is needed.  And which character in the movie was best?  The Jeff Goldblum character, who was so entertaining that the filmmakers decided he should live, not die as in the novel.  So how to overcome this dilemma in the sequel?  Simple: Ian Malcolm never really died in the novel!  Everyone only thought he died!  Including the author!  Brilliant!<br />This is taking 'cynical' to new depths.  This novel was written with no thought other than the bottom line, which is money.  Oodles and oodles of money.  Great heaping gobs of money, which should make up for the fact that there is no other earthly reason for this story to exist.  No plot.  No characters.  Just Burger King tie-ins and a new house in the Carribean for the author.	2000-09-24
US	52473945	R3G9PVXW731AZI	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The perfect example of how life should be led	HENDERSON THE RAIN KING holds a special place in my heart:  It is the first novel that was assigned to me in an English class that I didn't think was boring as hell.  Not to put down English, it's a valuable course, but sometimes you can't help but wish for a book that's not only 'important', but also 'fun to read'.<br />HENDERSON follows the titular character through a few months of his life, as he decides to drop everything to travel through Africa.  That sums up the plot, but it doesn't do justice to either Saul Bellow's prose, or the character of Henderson himself.<br />Henderson is an original, a huge mountain of a man who is so full of himself, and yet so full of zeal for life, that you can't help but admire him.  Henderson does not go at things half-heartedly.  He goes full-bore through life, often leaving innocent bystanders in his wake.<br />The thing is, Henderson is SO overblown, SO pompous, SO egotistical, that you cannot believe, by the end, that you actually like the guy.  This is where Bellow's talent really shines through.  He has taken an individual who would tire you out within two minutes in real life, and has somehow made him endearing.  It is a terrific feat of writing, on par with John Kennedy Toole's hero Ignatius Reilly in A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES.  Although to be fair, Henderson is not nearly as unlikeable (in theory) as Ignatius is.<br />HENDERSON is not a saint.  Thank God.  He'd never let good sense stand in the way of a good time.  But he's not an idiot.  He does care for others, in his way (unlike Ignatius).  He's destructive, but intensely well-meaning.  He's one of the most remarkable characters in modern literary fiction, keeping company with Ignatius, Garp, and Quoyle.  Those true readers out there know who these guys are.	2000-09-22
US	52473945	R18LCSQEWZPYJ6	0802135854	487867901	Stone Junction	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Book So Good, I Co-opted the Title as My Alias	There are few more enjoyable pleasures in this world than being caught completely off-guard by a novel.  I picked up STONE JUNCTION at a discount book sale, drawn in by the jacket, and the price.  I began reading it with absolutely no preconceived notions as to its content, or worth.<br />By the end of the story, I knew that this was my favorite novel of all time.<br />It's the story of Daniel Pearce, an orphaned youngster who is brought under the guidance of some of the most off-kilter and bizarre people imaginable.  While this may reek of HARRY POTTER, this is most assuredly a story for adults.<br />STONE JUNCTION is about the world behind the world, the people we sledom get to know.  It is a world of crime, and conspiracies, and greed, and love, and magic.  That author Jim Dodge holds it all together is a fine feat in and of itself, but he does more than that;  he makes the reader yearn for this life.  Although (in my edition) he states emphatically that the novel is a work of fiction (&quot;Believe otherwise at your peril&quot;), Dodge's world is so well-defined that it's difficult not to wish it existed.<br />The novel also has that one remaining aspect that so many novels, even the truly great ones, lack;  it left me wanting more.	2000-09-21
US	52473945	R1RF9EMRH2UCJF	0571166482	588068550	Barton Fink & Miller's Crossing	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Two of the Finest Screenplays of the Last Ten Years	The Coen brother's films have never failed to astonish and entertain me.  From BLOOD SIMPLE to FARGO, they have shown an uncanny knack for vivid  characteriziations and photographic style.<br />But the question is, are the  scripts as good by themselves?<br />Thankfully, the answer is yes.  The Coen's  scripted prose is dramatically satisfying, and makes one yearn to see the  films again, which is the highest compliment I can give them.<br />BARTON FINK  is a bold and unusual piece, centred on a playwright who ends up selling  his soul in Hollywood.  It may sound like the usual pointless drivel, but  the Coen's take a surprisingly dark twist into the bizarre, with insane  roommates, creepy bellhops, and drunken authors.  It only never fully  captures the ominous presence of the hotel Barton stays in.  On film, it is  the most foreboding motel since Stanley Kubrick's THE SHINING.<br />MILLER'S  CROSSING (my favorite film of ALL time) is a different period piece.  It  centres on Irish gangsters in the 1930's.  But while the plot is an  ingenious homage to the gangster film's of Bogart and Cagney, it is the  dialogue which makes it shine.  Once again, astonishing characterizations  rule the day, as the conflicted Tom Regan plays both sides against each  other for reasons even he may not understand.<br />An added bonus is the  introduction, written by the Coen's sometime film editor.  It is an unusual  choice, as he goes to great lengths to describe how much he does NOT like  the scripts, or film in general.  It serves to heighten interest in their  content, and does prove that the Coens are not for everyone.  For those of  us you cannot wait for their next film, this is a treat.	2000-09-18
US	52473945	RP51RJ8A8MLDO	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	1	9	15	N	N	Awful, awful, awful.	Why is Ken Follett popular?  I've never read any of his other novels, but  he seems to be an author with a loyal following, both commercially and  critically.<br />But THE THIRD TWIN is awful.  Horrid.  Detestable.  I kept  screaming at it to get better, but it didn't listen.<br />I hate this novel.  Hate it.  Hate it hate it hate it hate it hate it.  I hate its characters,  of which it has none.  I hate its style, of which it has none.  And I hate  how it assumes that a reader will not know the difference between a tightly  wound thriller and a hack job.<br />I hate the indifference with which this  book was written.  I hate its condescending attitude towards the reader.  I  hate how miserable it made me.  I hate how I will never get the hours I  spent reading it back.<br />I hate the fact that I cannot do a decent critical  evaluation of its innumerable flaws.  I hate how its astonishing ineptitude  overwhelms my senses.<br />I am heartened, however, that I survived.  I have  visited the depths of literary hell, that circle where trashy  autobiographies, books based on gameshows, novelizations of bad films, and  anonymous porn are consigned to linger.  I have dwelled in the nadir of  English fiction, and have emerged unscathed.  A little sadder, perhaps, but  a little wiser, too.  And with the firm promise to myself never to believe  anything a book jacket blurb says ever again.	2000-09-17
US	52473945	R2OCSV8K1Z6ERZ	0684852586	524319009	Invasion of the Body Snatchers	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Well-Crafted Ode to Paranoia	INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS is one of those novels that have become  part of popular culture.  This is due more to the fact that three movie  adaptations have been filmed (by Don Siegel in 1956, Philip Kaufman in  1978, and Abel Ferrara in 1993), than it has to do with the overall quality  of the novel itself.  Surprisingly, given the B-movie theme, INVASION  remains quite an entertaining read.<br />The plot is far too well-known to  bother repeating here.  Suffice to say, people in a small town are being  replaced with exact duplicates.  Or are they?  We all know the answer by  now, but I won't ruin the surprise for those four people who don't know the  ending.<br />I think the reason this works so well is that the story never  stops moving.  It propels the characters along, not pausing for more than a  cursory examination of their backgrounds.  Which makes it ideal fodder for  a movie.  It reminds me of Stephen King's self-review of his novel THE  RUNNING MAN.  It may not be perfect, or subtle, but it MOVES.<br />Granted, it  is not perfect.  Its examination of male/female relations seen slightly  dated.  The lead character makes conclusions that seem reasonable when you  know the ending, but implausible when you don't.<br />But the sense of  paranoia is very real.  The slow death of the town is eerie and palpable (I  wouldn't be surprised if King has reread INVASION several times before  penning his own ode to the death of a small town, SALEM'S LOT).  And the  ending actually is surprising, for people only familiar with the movies.  All three movies have different endings, but the original is one that  couldn't be explained to satisfaction on film.  It would seem too abrupt.  On the page, however, it is quite surprising.  Even logical, which is a  rare commodity for stories these days.<br />INVASION is by no means a  masterpiece of literature.  But it is a fine example of pure storytelling.	2000-09-17
US	52473945	ROK0CXA0VYUDS	0385495439	717942094	The Colony of Unrequited Dreams: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very, very good.	Perhaps I'm a little bit biased towards this novelization of the life of  Joey Smallwood.  No, I'm not from Newfoundland.  No, I'm not a historical  fiction buff.  No, my name's not Joey.<br />But as I read along, a sneaking  suspicion entered my mind.  I did a little bit a family research, and it  turns out that I am distantly related to the character of Prowse, who could  be loosely described as Smallwood's arch-enemy.  Admittedly, it is a  tenuous relation (three generations by marriage), but still, very cool.  And of course, it helps that the novel is one of astonishing  quality.<br />COLONY tells of the slow rise of Joey Smallwood, from his very  humble beginnings to his eventual election as Newfoundland's first premier.  Now, I don't know anything about the history of Newfoundland.  I don't  believe the book is meant to be a technically accurate representation of  Smallwood's life.  This is not a biography.<br />What COLONY is, is a vastly  entertaining look at the twists and turns that can occur in the life of one  man.  As in John Irving's best novels ( I kept thinking of THE CIDER HOUSE  RULES as I read along), COLONY is an epic view of a tiny subject.  As  Smallwood's life progresses, the story becomes more and more enriched with  characters and themes and regrets and promises.  What Smallwood does with  his life is miraculous, and sometimes awe-inspiring.  I don't mean to imply  that Smallwood is a saint.  But his flaws and delusions only serve to  heighten his triumphs and failures.<br />As I said, I don't know how much of  COLONY is factually true.  Did he have an ongoing unrequited love affair  with his childhood friend and nemesis Fielding?  Are the motivations behind  his actions accurate?  In the end, it doesn't matter.  This isn't meant to  be a treatise on the political background of a premier.  This is a story,  and a damned fine one.  And it is obvious after reading it why, for all his  mistakes, Joey Smallwood is a widely beloved figure in Newfoundland.wfoundland.	2000-09-17
US	52473945	R37VR2UQ2JG5HR	0679441018	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles, Book 5)	Books	2	13	20	N	N	A Religious Treatise Masquarading as a Vampire Novel	Ever since I first read INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, I have had a  particular fondness for Anne Rice.  Her subsequent novels have never fully  realized the same literary levels as INTERVIEW, but I have enjoyed them  all.  With the exception of MEMNOCH.<br />Don't get me wrong, I'm not a  religuous fanatic.  My criticism is not based on an alternate view of  religious beliefs (in fact, I greatly enjoy anyone with the nerve to  question established dogma).  I am also not offended by any of the  liberties Rice takes with the usual, less sympathetic depiction of the  Devil.<br />What offends me is that this is NOT a vampire novel.<br />Rice's  conceit is to take Lestat, the vampire hero of several previous novels, and  place him in direct contact with evil incarnate.  Now, this is a hell of an  idea.<br />But MEMNOCH only uses this theme as a device to explore the Devil's  soul.  This is also an admirable idea.  But the two ideas never mesh.  While I found the novel somewhat entertaining, I also found it  incomplete.<br />I believe Rice intended a different book.  I believe she  attempted to write a book solely about the Devil.  And then, when it was  apparent that she didn't have enough imagination to sustain the theme, she  grafted Lestat onto the plot, and rushed the novel to market before anyone  realized.  Either that, or her agent insisted on an appearance by Lestat so  that her fans would buy it on that premise.<br />The Devil is a fascinating  character.  Much literature has been conceived around the notion of a  sympathetic demon.  But Rice doesn't pull it off.  Lestat is too much of a  whiner to compete with Satan.  The Devil is too strong a character to be  made a secondary member of a VAMPIRE novel.  Read Clive Barker's A HISTORY  OF THE DEVIL instead.  It's a wonderful play, and it gives the Devil his  due.	2000-09-15
US	52473945	RIV3IF06DGBPW	0679736980	279217643	Night Squad	Books	3	16	16	N	N	A decent pulp novel that never lives up to its promise	NIGHT SQUAD has all the elements of classic hard-boiled pulp.  You've got  the anti-hero, Corey, a disgraced cop who figures the only way to stay  alive is to go criminal.  You've got mobsters who fear nothing except  betrayal.  You've got a mysterious branch of the police you have an  unhealthy interest in the anti-hero's business.  And you've got the ex-wife  who, somehow, still manages to be in love with the big lug.<br />But it  doesn't fall together.<br />David Goodis writes tough dialogue with the best  of them.  His novel BLACK FRIDAY is a wonder of desperation and fear.  But  NIGHT SQUAD has too many avenues that don't engage the reader.  The ex-wife  is too mysterious, and her reason for being in the story is never clear.  It relies too heavily on coincidence.  Repressed memories suddenly surface,  to unsatisfactory effect. Corey's final stab at redemption doesn't ring  true.<br />It's as if Goodis had a good, tight story, but then realized he  didn't include enough cliche's.  It's a good night's read, but it doesn't  stick with you.	2000-09-15
US	52473945	R11JM4L8GYCNF5	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Too Much Flag-Waving, Not Enough Talent	I've never read Tom Clancy before.  I've seen the movies, and enjoyed them  (THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER in particular).  But Clancy as a novelist was a  new experience.<br />I suppose I should have seen my overall reaction coming.  When Clancy dedicated his book to Ronald Reagan, I had a sneaking suspicion  as to where the story would lead.<br />The story has plenty of pulp promise.  What appears to be the entire American government is wiped out in one fell  swoop, and it's up to Jack Ryan to become the new president.  But Clancy  doesn't know when to quit.  He adds on layers and layers of subplots, most  of which would work by themselves, but only serve here to bloat an already  large novel.<br />Part of the problem is that there is no sympathy created for  any character.  Every person in Ryan's entourage is decent, hard-working,  and completely uninteresting.  Any person who doesn't fit in with Clancy's  idea of a hero is treated with suspicion and contempt.  It might make a  difference if ANY character was remotely memorable, but evidently,  characterization is not Clancy's strong suit.<br />I had higher hopes for the  action portions of the novel, but alas, I was also disappointed.  Pages and  pages of technical jargon only prove that Clancy has done his homework.  What it doesn't do is advance the plot.  Tank warfare may make for  entertaining viewing, but they make for deadly dull reading.  Particularly  if, once again, there is absolutely no empathy created for anyone involved  in the actual battles.<br />And as for the actual backstage look at how the  presidency is run?  I am reminded of a recent newspaper critique of  television's THE WEST WING.  It stated (quite accurately, to my mind) that  when it comes to drama, the democratic viewpoint is the most dramatically  satisfying.  It leads to shows such as THE WEST WING, I'LL FLY AWAY, PICKET  FENCES, and HOMICIDE.  When the republican viewpoint is emphasized in a  drama, you get THE A-TEAM and TOUCHED BY AN ANGEL.N ANGEL.	2000-09-14
US	52473945	R2PJPR0GWLASNY	0802135765	937401692	Great Apes (Will Self)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Far better than I anticipated	I approached GREAT APES with some degree of trepidation.  It really was  the cover that drew me in, the subtle photo blend of monkey and man which  resulted in a visage not unlike that of my grandfather's.  But the plot?  Chimps in place of humans?  It's been done before, and resulted in  Charleton Heston's least annoying performance (I'm referring to the movie  adaptation of PLANET OF THE APES, if it escaped your attention).  Let's  face it, once Heston has been affiliated with a subject, it's best just to  lie low and hope it goes away.<br />But GREAT APES is far more than a PLANET  remake.  GREAT APES, while latching on to the same basic premise, has  rethought the whole approach.  While PLANET's apes were really humans in  every way except appearance,  GREAT APES reminds us that the chimpanzee  world, in its modes and relationships, is remarkably different that ours.  It is the paradox of seeing how ridiculous a chimp society would be, while  realizing how silly our own system has become, that makes GREAT APES  memorable.<br />Granted, some readers may be put off by some of the more  scatological references and desciptions.  Let's face it, any exploration  into a society that values the size and swelling of the posterior region is  bound to offend some.  But those who manage to see beyond the base humour  of these sections will find a parallel world of depth and wisdom that is  well worth exploring.	2000-09-13
US	52473945	R1YOB3R5H5OW25	0425127931	942931748	The Damnation Game	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Horror in the true definition of the word	Lately, Clive Barker's writings have taken a turn for the fantasy side of fiction, presenting bizarre alternate realities in the tradition of Tolkien.  He does it well, but his true calling, his dark side, if you  will, refuses to stay hidden.  Even as his stories leave the realm of  horror altogether, sometimes, in a passage not expected, he will unleash  his demons, presenting the reader with an astonishingly vivid and graphic  description of evil.<br />THE DAMNATION GAME is akin to all of those small  moments being placed in one truly gruesome piece of fiction.<br />Clive Barker  does not shy away from the grotesque.  Neither does he feel the need to  leaven his imagery with humour.  The story is presented for maximum impact,  and maximum horror.<br />Defining the story is tricky.  Suffice to say, it is  a variation on the FAUST theme, with a man presented with the option to  sell his soul, or save it.  As in most Barker stories, neither option is  particularly appealing.<br />Those seeking escapist entertainment (not that  there's anything wrong with that) should stay away.  Barker is not a  disposable novelist.  Rather, like H.P. Lovecraft, Barker is more concerned  woith scaring the bejesus out of you.  He succeeds.	2000-07-21
US	52473945	R316AOGKCYBQIV	0525143440	156324503	Landscape with Traveler: The Pillow Book of Francis Reeves	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Surprisingly Subtle Story	The reason LANDSCAPE WITH TRAVELLER surprised me was that I was only familiar with Barry Gifford's Sailor and Lula novels, such as WILD AT HEART.  I was unprepared for this gentle portrait of a man looking back on  his life.<br />LANDSCAPE is told as a series of musing, not in precise  chronological order, of events in one man's life.  They are not deep, or  inventive.  They only describe glimpses into his history, but when taken as  a whole, the effect is quietly devestating.  Nothing really happens of any  importance, but not everyone leads a remarkable life.  By the end, it is  shown that it is how the life is led that is important, not what happens in  it.	2000-07-03
US	52473945	R2QINJ36HD536N	1852424028	173309414	I Should Have Stayed Home (Midnight Classics)	Books	2	3	13	N	N	Simpleminded and Obvious	There's no rule that states that each novel must be an original unto itself.  Originality is a rare commodity, and rehashing an old theme can sometimes lead to a new insight.<br />Not here.<br />I SHOULD HAVE STAYED HOME  may have caused a stir when it was originally published, but it has not  aged well.  What seemed ground-breaking now seems routine and trite.  Certainly, the travails of young hopefuls caught in the web of moral  uncertainty that is Hollywood is nothing new.<br />But while HOME may have  been the among the first of many, it is too simple-minded to stand the test  of time.  At most, it is precocious in its innocence.  The characters, who  are idealistic to a fault, are annoying at best, and never elicit any  sympathy for their troubles.  If anything, any character who comes across  as this stupid makes the reader yearn for more problems, so that the  characters will really know what it's like to suffer.  The whinings of a  young man who can't be a star does not make for entertaining reading.	2000-07-03
US	52473945	RIDRZNVICYHON	0316099872	145778200	The Aardvark Is Ready for War: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Pale Echo of CATCH 22	I suppose a comparison to Joseph Heller's CATCH 22 isn't a completely fair one.  CATCH 22 is one of the great novels of the century, a startlingly funny and original story that captures both the insanity of war, and the humanity of people stuck in the middle of it.  It is a novel that is as  true and relevant now as when it was written.  It hasn't aged a  day.<br />That's one of the problems with THE AARDVARK IS READY FOR WAR.  It  attempts to do for the Gulf War what CATCH 22 did for World War II, and to  some extent, it does succeed.  AARDVARK does capture the language of  warfare in today's age, and it contrasts nicely against the overall  shallowness of modern society.  The Gulf War was a war fought via MTV and  Nintendo, a war that never felt like one, a war with no personal impact for  the majority of the North American population.<br />From this angle,  AARDVARK succeeds.  Its unnamed protagonist is a true product of the times,  a video voyeur who views life as a more personal and intimate experience  when experienced through a camera lens.<br />But this is not a new idea.  It  is already a cliche' that society's version of intimacy has devolved into a  detatched cynicism.  Through the overwhelming media intrusion into our  lives, we have become numb to the shocks that the world still has in store  for us.<br />By adopting this outlook,  AARDVARK unfortunately falls prey to  the very trap it condemns.  AARDVARK, like its hero, is shallow, only  fooling itself into thinking it's deep and meaningful.  Unlike CATCH 22,  which AARDVARK mirrors in many ways (including major plot points), AARDVARK  simply doesn't have anything new to say.  It carpets its unoriginality in a  new form, and does it well enough.  But, similar to the Gulf War itself,  once it ends, it's forgotten as soon as you change the channel.	2000-03-04
US	52473945	R1A515D3P4X29E	0345410246	754283812	Iowa Baseball Confederacy	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Kinsella's Finest	THE IOWA BASEBALL CONFEDERACY is the finest ode to the mysteries of life ever to centre around baseball.  W.P. Kinsella's name has become synonymous with his love for the sport, and sometimes it can become overwhelming.  His  short stories have a tendency to push the sentimentality over the edge into  the realm of muadlin.  Here, however, the mix is perfect.<br />Gideon Clarke  has a problem.  Ever since his father died, he has become obsessed with the  Iowa Baseball Confederacy, a league that never existed, except in his mind.  Or so it seems.  Over the course of his searchings (and he does find the  league), Gideon also relates the problems he has with reality, his  destructive relationship with his wife, and his theories of temporal  displacement and rips in the fabric of time.<br />Kinsella here achieves a  mastery of the genre of magical realism, on par with the terrific LIKE  WATER FOR CHOCOLATE.  As Gideon continues on his quest, events around him  get more and more bizarre, until a town is slowly flooded, a wooden Indian  bats cleanup, home runs never come back down to earth, and baseball games  never end.<br />In other hands, this mixture of whimsy and fantasy would leave  the reader cold and confused, but Kinsella never falters.  The more strange  things get, the more Gideon becomes the rock we hold onto, and his  willingness to accept the things he cannot understand, his sheer joy at the  absudity of his situation, ensures that the reader will follow him to the  ends of the Earth, if need be.<br />THE IOWA BASEBALL CONFEDERACY is a  wonderful book, and that's something, coming from someone who rejects a  typical fantasy novel from the book cover alone.  Lovers of fantasy should  read this.  Lovers of baseball should read this.  Lovers of life should  read this.  Lovers of great stories should read this.	2000-02-21
US	52473945	R1WRNHA6B6YVHS	0889224129	207579604	Suburban Motel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Canada's premier playwright does it again	George F. Walker has a knack for creating astonishing, vivid characters that exist beyond the confines of the stage.  After seeing his plays, you leave convinced that these people were not simply dissolved into  nothingness when the play concluded.  Their lives continue on, as is  sometimes most obvious when Walker revisits his characters down the  road.<br />SUBURBAN MOTEL is a series of six plays, all taking place in the  same (supposedly) seedy motel room.  Each play stands alone, although some  characters do pop up in more than one.  The interconnecting theme, besides  the location, is the despair that these characters feel.<br />As in most  Walker plays, the plot is secondary.  These are character-driven pieces,  with no pat answers or Neil Simon-type wit.  The inhabitants of these tales  are stuck in lives they want out of, but with no clear idea as to how to  leave.<br />Everyone will have their favorite play.  Mine is CRIMINAL GENIUS,  in which several criminals (including a few from previous Walker  productions) decide to overthrow a vicious crimelord.  Sadly, they fail  miserably.  I give nothing away by this;  the enjoyment here comes from the  characters, not the plot.<br />Overall, some plays don't measure up to others.  They lack the bite of Walker's best plays (see ZASTROZZI or NOTHING  SACRED).  But less-than-perfect-Walker is still good theatre, and good  reading.	2000-02-19
US	52473945	R1QCEHMGPJ3NWA	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A complex novel that demands another read.	In 1998, I was witness to a stage production of THE MASTER AND MARGARITA at the Winnipeg, Manitoba Fringe Festival.  A troupe from Detroit, I believe, had translated the novel to the stage.  I had never heard of the  novel, but went simply because it sounded interesting.<br />For two hours, I  sat transfixed.  Never before or since have I had such a satisfying  theatrical experience.  It's hard to describe, but the use of the stage  itself, the language, the acting, the ideas, all added up to something I  suspect I will never have again to such a degree.  I went back three more  times.<br />I finally decided to sit down and read the novel itself, and true  to the play, it is complex, disturbing, at times astonishing, at times  confusing.  I am reminded of the movie adaptation of THE ENGLISH PATIENT,  an unfilmable novel filmed magnificently.  This is just such a novel.<br />As  in the play, how do you describe such a tale?  It follows the exploits of  the Devil in Russia, but also centres on a failed novelist and his lover, a  giant cat, an insane poet, a mother who killed her child.  This story is  not content to sit still.<br />Why four stars and not five?  Because this  novel, like the best ones, demands to be read again, to be further  understood and savoured.  Perhaps I will change it later on, when I reread  it.  I will read it again.	2000-02-19
US	52473945	R34CL26ITL2O7F	1859849296	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	4	55	73	N	N	A disturbing exploration of the facts behind the legend	THE MISSIONARY POSITION is the ideal book for our times.  Highly cynical and uncompromising, Christopher Hitchens has written the ultimate in hero-deflation, reminding us that nothing is ever as good as it  seems.<br />Hitchens does not set out to destroy Mother Teresa;  this is not  simply an unfocused rant.  Rather, by focusing on the words and actions of  Mother Teresa, instead of her reputation, Hitchens has written a highly  enlightening and engrossing treatise on the myths, the suspicions, the  problems, and the downright lies that have been perpetrated both by Mother  Teresa and those acting on her behalf.<br />The question must be asked,  however;  Is this simply propaganda?  Can it be lumped into the many books  Hitchens lists that are written in exalted praise of her devotion and  charity?  Well, of course it is.  All books are propaganda to some extent,  in that they espouse a particular point of view.  Should that be used to  dispose of Hitchens' research, as some other AMAZON critics have suggested?  Hardly.<br />Of the many anecdotes Hitchens relates (both his own personal  experiences and those of people who have worked alongside Mother Teresa),  possibly the most startling is Mother Teresa's intervention into the trial  of Charles Keating.  Keating, you may recall, is the Savings and Loans  magnate who personally bilked 17,000 people out of well over $250,000,000.  Mother Teresa wrote a letter to Judge Lance Ito pleading for clemency, as  Keating, through his $1,000,000 donation, had proved he was a friend to the  poor.  Hitchens then reprints the trial prosocutor's written reply to  Mother Teresa, in which he lists Keating's many atrocities, and suggests  that if she really wanted to help the poor, she would return the money.  Unsurprisingly, she did not.<br />Something is rotten in the city of Calcutta.  Under the guise of charity and Christianity, Mother Teresa has overseen  one of the largest charities in the world.  Where does the money go?  Why  does she receive millions of dollars, and yet doctors are disgusted with  the level of care her houses provide?  Why does she advocate the barest  minimum of medical care to the suffering, and yet she herself received the  finest medical care available?<br />Hitchens provides no clear answers.  Those  records are unavailable.  But something is wrong.  Something is very, very  wrong.Why  does she receive millions of dollars, and yet doctors are disgusted with  the level of care her houses provide?  Why does she advocate the barest  minimum of medical care to the suffering, and yet she herself received the  finest medical care available?<br />Hitchens provides no clear answers.  Those  records are unavailable.  But something is wrong.  Something is very, very  wrong.	2000-01-31
US	52473945	RI705KX0159LR	0345414004	997219030	Friday	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A fine, exciting read from an accomplished master	FRIDAY does not compare with Robert A. Heinlein's acknowledged classic STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND.  In his best, most memorable works, Heinlein does not simply tell a story, he creates a world that is at once bizarre, and at the same time, frighteningly plausible.  In STRANGER, he created, in the tale of Valentine Michael Smith, a world of free love and religious  needs.  In STARSHIP TROOPERS, an outwardly simple tale of war on other  planets masked an insidious view of a completely war-oriented, republican  world.  Heinlein's gift, besides being a master story-teller, is to explain  the machinations of these cultures in such a way that you find yourself  completely empathizing with the politics of the world.  Only later do you  come to conclude that the world was not as appealling as it seemed.  To put  it another way, Heinlein is a master at propaganda.<br />FRIDAY is not in the  same league.  It does create a world of the future that is odd yet easily  believed to be possible, but it does not enrich this world with the same  amount of care or detail as in his previous works.  FRIDAY is a simple  adventure tale, and a damn fine one at that.<br />FRIDAY, the protagonist, is  a genetically enhanced superbeing, working as a courier for a mysterious  outfit.  The story reveals her travels through a war-torn but upbeat world,  her family life in an S-group (an interesting variation on out-moded Mormon  beliefs), and her profound lust for life.  There is some thought-provoking  discussion as to her place in society (Is she human?  Does she qualify as  having a soul?), but the story does not dwell on this.  Friday handles  every situation as it arises, welcomes each new challenge with open arms,  and the story moves so quickly, there is little time for any actual  introspection.<br />That is the one element that would have transformed FRIDAY  from an entertaining read into a full-blown classic.  If Heinlein had  slowed the pace just a little, and let us dwell on some of the more  alarming aspects of the society in which Friday survives, a truly  astounding piece of science fiction would have resulted.<br />But perhaps I'm  reading too much into it.  FRIDAY is an adventure, a slam-bang road trip  that never fails to entertain.  Take it on that basis, and FRIDAY qualifies  as a story no science fiction fan should be without.the more  alarming aspects of the society in which Friday survives, a truly  astounding piece of science fiction would have resulted.<br />But perhaps I'm  reading too much into it.  FRIDAY is an adventure, a slam-bang road trip  that never fails to entertain.  Take it on that basis, and FRIDAY qualifies  as a story no science fiction fan should be without.	2000-01-11
US	52473945	R3CIPODK19RR5Z	0380810433	608777897	Flyboy Action Figure Comes with Gasmask	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Far more entertaining than any other superhero novel around	FLYBOY ACTION FIGURE COMES WITH GASMASK is a terrific character study on the benefits and perils that may develop when someone is given a position of power.  FLYBOY concerns a twentysomething slacker who has, until now,  kept his unusual secret to himself; he has the ability to transform into a  fly.  While this may seem amazing, what distinguishes FLYBOY from other,  more comic-book oriented superhero novels is the amount of realism that  goes along with an ability of this sort.<br />After all, what use can one  truly get out of this power?  As Flyboy soon discovers, his talent is more  useless than anything else, and it's not until he meets a fellow  superhero-in-waiting that he is able to put his power to any use.  His new  friend, a rather statuesque waitress, has the ability to make things  disappear.  Where they go after that, she doesn't know, nor does she care,  until the horrific destructive capability she holds becomes clear to her.  Together, our heroes decide to transform the world, in their own little  ways.<br />That is what makes this novel truly charming.  There are no  super-villans, no evil despots out to enslave humanity.  Instead, the  fearless twosome decide to take on a right-wing newspaper, by casually  removing the newspaper outlets from existence.  It's the smallness of these  acts, the reality of them, that allows the reader to easily bond with the  characters.  The heroes are not infallible; they make unwise decisions, and  like most of us these days, are prone to fits of unusually harsh  depression.  There are no Superman heroics in sight.  Those sorts of epic  clashes between good and evil don't exist in most peoples lives.<br />What  we're left with is the story of two people, each slightly eccentric, and  each slowly realizing the potential people have.  They aren't perfect.  Indeed, they wouldn't want to be.  How much fun could you have if you were  better than everyone else?	2000-01-10
US	52473945	R20TERTAF7ZREJ	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	1	6	11	N	N	The reason the illiteracy rate is so high.	MEG - a novel of deep terror.<br />A novel of unrelenting tedium.<br />A novel devoid of originality.<br />A novel astonishing in its lack of depth.<br />A novel remarkable for its inability to create characters to root for.<br />A  novel undeserving of praise of any kind.<br />A novel written because the idea  of a really big shark is 'cool'.<br />A novel that makes one weep for the  trees that dies to create it.<br />A novel that makes one want to plunge a  finger through their eyesocket into their brain, and swirl it around.<br />A  novel that, if the choice were given, will cause a person to choose the  agony of electrocution rather than read it again.<br />A novel that is a  complete, utter, unending waste of time.	1999-12-14
US	52473945	R2NRVGU9PGROPY	0385251521	513929479	Logan In Overtime	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A low-quality offering from a high-quality author	LOGAN IN OVERTIME, written by Paul Quarrington, is not lacking in ambition.  It aspires to the magical quality achieved by W.P. Kinsella in his baseball stories, and to the large, often bizarre cast of characters  seen in the novels of Dickens and Irving.  But LOGAN is a mess, a slight,  sometimes amusing riff on the sport of hockey that achieves nothing more  than the creation of a nostalgic feeling for Quarrington's far better, more  fully realized novels.  In WHALE MUSIC and CIVILIZATION, and the  autobiographical THE BOY ON THE BACK OF THE TURTLE, Quarrington mixes the  odd with the realistic, creating memorable characters that come to life not  only because of their eccentricities, but because of Quarrington's very  palpable fondness for them.  In LOGAN, his characters feel half-finished,  coasting by on their oddness, and not creating any real empathy with the  reader.  It's not the subject matter:  Kinsella achieved a far greater  story with his similar IOWA BASEBALL CONFEDERACY.  There, as in LOGAN,  unusual, somewhat magical events are mixed with a story surrounding a  single game, but Kinsella balances his mystical-realism with a flair for  fully-functioning characters that exist long after the tale is ended.  Here, the effort is half-baked, as if Quarrington read Kinsella's novel,  changed baseball to hockey, and hoped the rest would fall into place.  Sadly, he fails.	1999-12-14
