US	52478880	R16WHM7A64AXS4	0441011799	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A bit rough edged, but good	I've been reading Charles Stross's \\"Accellerando\\" cycle of short stories in Asimov and have been much impressed.  As such, I've been looking forward to reading Singularity Sky. <br /> <br />This is a first novel and much be judged accordingly.  It does have its rough edges.  Like many hard SF authors, Stross has a love of technical jargon that does, sometimes, get in the way of the story.  I must also note that I found the ending to be less than satisfactory and something of a cheat given the events of the story. <br /> <br />That said, the book is brimming with fresh ideas.  Stross appears to be one of the few authors who takes the notion of a Vingean Singularity seriously and that comes through in this story to its benefit.  He's also better at characterization than most hard SF authors manage (which isn't to say that it couldn't stand some improvement).   <br /> <br />It is a book filled with ideas and brimming with a sense of wonder.  I don't doubt that as he hones his skills, he will be an author to reckon with.	2004-09-08
US	52478880	R16YQMMSPSZIHH	0743436156	246813343	The War Against Earth	Books	1	19	23	N	N	An Immense Letdown	I am rather fond of A Boy and His Tank.  Although not a book that's going to win a Pulitzer, it was a remarkably fun bit of millitary adventure.<br />The sequel, however, is simply awful.  For one think, almost the entire first half of the book is spent detailing the protagonists real estate, financial and political doings, in thoroughly tedious and unexciting detail. <br />What is worse, however, is that this is one of those stories where the hero not only invariably wins, but he becomes immensely rich and powerful in the process, never making any but the most inconsequential of missteps and always demonstrated to be intelligent, wise, and unlucky beyond all conceivable possibility.<br />Worst of all, virtually everything that happened in the first book is negated in the second.  All of the really interesting events from the first book are proven to be, quite literally, a dream.  One is left to wonder what the point was.<br />Frankly, the story reads like [...]  It is fantasy wish-fulfillment of the most indulgent variety. Rather than having interesting characters with foibles and limitations who face actual challenges, we have a kind of mock-god who goes around knocking the stuffing out of cardboard enemies who come across as no more threatening than cut-outs.  <br />I do not know why this book is so deplorable when its predecessor was so enjoyable.  Perhaps it's a case where one author is the right number (Frankowski wrote ABahT by himself), where a second author is one too many.  Or, perhaps, the author simply lost his direction.  Whatever the case may be, if like the first book, stop.  Trust me, you'll be better of for having done so.	2003-07-28
US	52478880	R6L8HRKR3F2EV	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	28	30	N	N	What happened?	I've been patient.  At the end of WH, I thought that my patience was finally going to be rewarded.  It ended with something that *should* have been a major turning point.  I mean, the Taint is clensed from the male half of the One Power.  That's a Big Deal (tm), right?  When I read that, I was certain that the next book was going to explode.<br />It fizzled.  A bunch of people see Rand's Big Project from a distance and, effectively, go &quot;huh?&quot;.  Meanwhile, everyone is still bogged down in the same plot-lines that they were last time -- and I do mean the *same* ones, and not a single one so much as inches towards resolution.<br />After such an enormously portentious ending in WH, it's simply incomprehensible to me that Jordan would have chosen to spend yet more time twiddling with all the pieces he has on the board.  <br />What happened?  A big, fat nothing.	2003-02-12
US	52478880	R2S2LEWLZSFE8Y	0716730278	278560968	Five Kingdoms: An Illustrated Guide to the Phyla of Life on Earth	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Surprisingly Fun	Although this is primarily intended to be an illustrated reference guide, it's a surprisingly fun one to thumb through.  Part of that is the delight of looking at pictures and illustrations of some truly strange organisms (science fiction writers should really buy this book to see what genuinely alien creatures are like), but also due to the plethora of interesting facts.<br />I know that when I was reading through the section detailing the Animal phylla, I was struck by how many creatures -- entire phyllums -- get along without even rudimentary brains (or digestive systems, respiratory systems, circulatory systems, or even organs, altogether, in some cases).  Likewise I was surprised to learn that only two phylla (including our own) ever developed winged flight.<br />The sections comprising the non-Animal kingdoms were of particular interest to me mainly for the simple reason that they invariably get little attention from most texts.  At best, you'll usally find a chapter dealing with micro-organisms as a whole, and a brief chapter on plants.  To see how much sheer diverity there is in just the Fungus kingdom is eye-opening.<br />I will note that the book does assume a basic level of biological literacy and that it sometimes throws jargon at the reader with little warning or explaination but, as a whole, this is a very accessible work and well worth having on one's shelf.	2002-06-21
US	52478880	R1UCVBPM0TDUY7	0061050938	458611053	Schild's Ladder	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	A disappointment	I like Egan's work and don't generally mind it when he gets technical (e.g., as he did, ferquently, in Diaspora), but this books often seems to be little more than characters talking physics and mathematics to each other.  <br />To be sure, there's a lot of intruiging asides about the culture and the technology of his universe, and the main character does have a *bit* of a backstory, but the sheer amount amount of technical detail that gets thrown around (often with minimal explaination for us mere mortals) has the unfortunate effect of muting a story with an absolutely intruiging premise.<br />Egan clearly knows his science and his math, but he can get carried away.  I wish that he had toned these aspects down a bit and had focused more on the characters and the plot, especially since I know that he's quite capable of telling a good story on those terms, as well.	2002-05-15
US	52478880	RPQQURI94N9OC	0312859279	353210303	Issola (The Vlad Taltos Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An important installment	Make no mistakes, this is clearly a pivotal installment.  By the end of chapter two, no less than six (more, depending on what you would consider major) of the series major mysteries are unambiguously revealed, neatly setting up a whole new set of quandries, and the ending represents a definite (and surprising, even to those of us who read a certain short story) transition for Vlad's mysterious device, Spellbreaker.<br />It's a very short novel, but it packs one hell of a punch.  Don't pass this one over if you have any interest in the series, what so ever.  Just don't make it your first book unless you want a significant fraction of the series spoiled.	2001-06-22
US	52478880	R3GAA34J72NQI1	0441002986	640577606	Looking for the Mahdi	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Impressive	I've had this book on my to-read shelf for over a year, and now I regret putting it off for so long.<br />The story is a deft blend of a spy thriller, a romance, and (yes) science fiction that manages to transcend all of its various genre labels.  <br />What really made the story work, for me, was the surprisingly mature understanding of middle eastern politics and religion that the author displayed.  In fact, the only detraction that the story held, for me, was the authors choice of placing the action in a fictious Islamic nation, rather than a real-world one.  Given her grasp of the culture, I think that this was something of a cheat, on her part.<br />Even so, this is a well recommended book, if you can find a copy.  It's a disappointment that a story as well crafted and sophisticated as this one should, so quickly, find its way to the remainders bin.	2001-04-13
US	52478880	R1G792B2M2VOPN	1883398363	55292066	Barlowe's Inferno	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Stylish, but not terrifying	I almost feel bad saying that this is anything less than perfect.  To be sure, the paintings are very moody, well executed, and distinctive.  Barlowe fans will want this in their collection for no better reason than that this is a very good example of his talent.  However, given the subject matter, I was somewhat disappointed.<br />One of the major problems is that the demons and, especially, the damned tend to look more like statuary than entities proper.  This can work for the demons, since they are otherworldly beings, but for the damned, the effect is that we aren't looking at people in torment, but merely strange sculptures.  The expressions, in particular, are often abstracted (e.g., the one where a number of demons are dissecting a human) and often don't convey either torment or dispair.  His tendancy to use a lot of blues for the damned contributes to this unfortunate effect (ironically, the sketches in the back do a much better job than many of the paintings).<br />The demons do come off much better, but many of them are more weird than frightful.  Some do stand out, such as the Australopithecine demon, and one of the lesser demons whose clothes are made from human flesh (it is interesting that Barlowe nearly discarded the latter from the work for failing to fit in with his overall theme).  Many, however, are simply too abstract in morphology to really disturb.<br />The architecture, however, is grand.  His notion that the buildings of hell are built from the bodies of the damned is a brilliant idea, and the form of the architecture (which he terms archiorganic) do, indeed, seem to belong in a literal Hell.<br />Overall, I think that Expedition remains a better example of Barlowe working around a theme.  When I read the text that accompanies the illustrations, I sense what he was aiming for (which is something worthwhile), but the paintings just don't quite live up to the descriptors.  Even so, he is a very good artist and his vision of Hell, even if not asterrifying as I would have hoped, remains a unique and largely interesting one.	2001-03-23
US	52478880	R3CE4QF0JYLY36	067157793X	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington #1)	Books	4	208	232	N	N	A series you may like	Rather than review this particular book, I thought that I'd give a capsul review of the series, as a whole.  Given that, if you do like this one, you're in for a long haul, I thought that this would be fair.<br />First of all, the Harrington series stands at the intersection of two genres: space opera and military SF.  Space Opera is a style of story with interstellar vistas, larger than life characters and situations, and (typically, and especially in this case) more than a dash of melodrama.  Military SF is a sub-genre of science fiction that concentrates its focus on the details of high-tech conflict -- think Tom Clancy in space.  The first warning is that if either of these styles of fiction turn you off, you probably won't like these books. <br />The writing style of Mr. Weber is servicable for the type of story he's telling.  He's very good at writing action sequences, and providing you villains to hate, and jerking a tear or two, and at compelling you to keep turning the pages of his stories.  His work, however, does not constitute high art.  It's not what I would call low-brow, either, but I think that it is fair to describe it as relatively unsophisticated.  In particular, he writes characters that are, on the whole, somewhat flat, often substituting emotional charge for true characterization.  If you want more than that out of a book, these aren't for you, either.<br />I should note that the books are deliberately written to echo the Horatio Hornblower stories and that there are many clever parallels between the future kingdoms of the novels and the historical conflict between France and the allied nations during the Napoleonic era.  History a literature buffs may get a kick out of this, but it should be noted that it isn't an exceptionally sophisticated set of parallels.  It's more of a light spice for those who like such things.<br />What you can expect is a very fun and action oriented set of stories.  One co-worker aptly described them as &quot;airplane books&quot; (that is, books that are good to read during a long flight), and I'm inclined to agree.  For them, they've been a slightly guilty pleasure, but a pleasure all the same.  If you want something that is manifestly enjoyable and unchallenging, or if you simply hungry for something to fill your reading time, I can't think of many series which would fit the bill quite so well.  They aren't high art but they do a good job of being everything that they are intended to be.	2001-02-20
US	52478880	RHV2BOV8VOMF9	0465030912	238681133	The Mind's I: Fantasies And Reflections On Self & Soul	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Wonderful introduction to a wonderous subject.	Philosophy, especially cognitive philosophy, can be a rather dull and dry topic, which is a shame given that it directly pertains to questions that we all ask, such as &quot;Who am I?&quot;, &quot;What is self?&quot;, &quot;What would it be like to be another person?&quot;, and so on.<br />This books takes the innovative approach of presenting an anthology of absolutely fascinating essays and stories that relate to these subjects, with each essay/story followed by commentary from Dennet and Hofstadter (both of whom are heavy hitters in Philosophic circles).  <br />It is especially interesting that a large fraction of the stories are taken directly from the annals of science-fiction, capitalizing on the genres ability to deal with these kinds of deep issues in a manner that's entertaining and accessable.  <br />Nor does the book push any particular agenda.  For instance, although Dennet and Hofstadter are both strong AI proponents (in every sense of the term &quot;strong&quot;), they do not hesitate to include essays that argue against the possibility of AI.<br />Of course, there is a certain point beyond which popularizations cease to illuminate, and anyone seriously interested in these topics would be well advised to turn to heavier treatments (including those of the editors), but, as an introduction to the subject, you could certainly do worse, although you would be hard-pressed to do better, than to read this book.	2001-01-22
US	52478880	R2RA9CBVQ90ZT7	0262540428	831736752	Elbow Room: The Varieties of Free Will Worth Wanting	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Thorough and complex	Although I do agree that Compatibalism does &quot;save&quot; the notion of free will by thoroughly distorting it, I think that Dennett's overall analysis of the issue is one of the most thorough and illuminating that I've encountered.  In particular, he does a masterful job of debunking the &quot;horror&quot; of a world where one's will is contingent on external factors.  As such, I find that I can accept his notion that our wills are &quot;free enough&quot;, even while balking at his contention that this actually amounts to something that ought to be called &quot;free will&quot;.<br />Readers who are more familiar with his popular works (such as _Darwin's Dangerous Idea_ and _The Minds I_) should be warned that this is an academic work.  He obviously presumes that his readers have more than a passing familiarity with philosophy in general and cognitive philosophy in particular as well as presuming that his readers are competent enough to handle a scholarly work.  Someone who is used to only reading science popularizations may find themselves getting in over their heads, although I do suspect that any reader who is interested in the field should be able to take something away from this.  Never the less, caveat emptor.	2001-01-22
US	52478880	R2FNJFVGXD34XC	0312863489	443840172	Celestial Matters	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Strikingly creative and ambitious	This book may represent the ultimate example of high-concept fiction.  The idea alone -- that the Greek understanding of the universe was accurate -- is enough to merit two stars all by itself.  Garfinkle, however, was not content to stop there.  Rather, he envisioned a world where the empire of Alexander did not collapse but, instead, grew to conquer half the world.  Then, to matters even more interesting, he posited that the Chi-based theories of China were ALSO correct in as much as technology based on them was as effective as technology based upon the Greek sciences (a state remniscent of the great divide between quantum mechanics and Relativity).  Then, to top it all off, he wove an interesting and engaging story about a Captain caught between his patriotic duty and his moral calling.<br />This is an absolutely fascinating novel.  I don't know whether to classify it as alternate history, fantasy, alternative science, or what-not.  It doesn't really matter because it's in a class by itself.  Although it may be hard to find, being out of print, it is certainly worth the effort to track down a copy.	2000-11-21
US	52478880	R3DMC3R1ECI85K	0345326164	914533777	With A Single Spell	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A simple and wonderful story	This book is, perhaps, the best example of what makes the Ethshar series tick: there is a problem and the character or characters work towards resolving it.<br />It sounds simplistic when put that way, and it IS a very simple concept, but what makes Watt-Evans books in this series stand out is the relentlessly logical and believable way that the problems are addressed.<br />With a Single Spell is a charming story about an apprentice wizard who has the misfortune of losing his teacher after only learning a single spell (a simple fire conjuration).  You can't get any simpler than that.  And yet, the book takes off from that starting point and leads us through some truly marvelous terrain, including a dragon hunt and a very, very mysterious castle that seems to have crashed (!) into the ground.<br />It is a very fun and inventive story that, while not being exactly Tolstoy in depth, is utterly enjoyable to read.	2000-11-20
US	52478880	RL34HE1EZ8R7K	0812509242	667775993	Heartfire (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 5)	Books	2	27	28	N	N	The fire burns low.	A long while ago, I came across an curious and interesting short story about the birth of a seventh son of a seventh son and I thought to myself that Card had created something truly special.  More short stories came out and then a book, and I was a very happy reader.  Then more books came out, followed by a hiatus.  <br />After the hiatus, there seemed to be a bit of a drop in quality, but I wrote it off.  Not every book can be a gem.  Heartfire, unfortunately, is representative of a much more telling decline.<br />When I read Heartfire and compare it to the first books, one thing in particular stands out in contrast: the original stories were populated with interesting people who DID interesting things and who had interesting things HAPPEN to them.  The twists and turns of the plots were surprising and enjoyable.  By contrast, very little happens in Heartfire, other than people talking.  And they do talk.  They talk about philosophy, about what their circumstances, about things that they need to do, about *talking*, and about how they need to stop talking so that they can get a go on.  There is lots (!) of dialog, but precious little ever happens.  It is, quite literally, 150 pages into the story before any sort of discernable event actually occurs to anyone.  And even when that occurs, it ultimately ends up leading to scads of more dialog and a weak as water resolution.<br />I realize that Card loves his characters, nor can I fault him for that given that he's managed to create some very distinct and interesting individuals, but it does a disservice to them, and to the work as a whole, if they do nothing more than stand around explaining themselves to each other ad nauseum.<br />It *was* a great series, but I honestly think that Card has lost his way.  I think that he has a general idea of where he wants it to end, but no idea of how to get there.  Heartfire seems to be nothing less than an attempt to stall his readers while he tries to figure that out.  I'm sorry, but it's not fair for him to ask us to pay for the privilege of waiting for him to manage that task, nor do I think that I'll be spending anymore money to do so.  Heartfire is a fading ember and I think that it can lead to nothing but cold ashes.	2000-11-14
US	52478880	R1X6GN6L4B436Q	0151293252	365409731	The Eternal Footman	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	More serious, less fun	I really had a hard time coming to a rating for this book.  On the one hand, of the three books in the series, this is certainly the deepest and the most serious.  It's also the least fun of the three.<br />This isn't to say it's a bad book.  Quite the contrary, it is a very good book, in the same sense that bran flakes constitute a very good breakfast item.  Or, perhaps, that analogy goes too far, as the book does have more than its share of quirky humor.  It's just that the humor is almost exclusively in the form of gallows humor and the overarching sense of gloom is not at all abated by it.<br />To be fair, though, it IS a book about the problems of dealing with mortality in a post-theistic world.  I don't doubt that it's a rather tall order to ask that Mr. Morrow tackle that issue and make it an enjoyable read at the same time.  Certainly, he gave it the old college try.  And believe me, I really WANT to like this book more than I did.  It's a very smart book and it is also very well written.  But, try as I might, I couldn't like it as much as I think that, perhaps, I ought to.  I can't shake the feeling that I am the one who failed to rise to the standards of the book and not the other way around.  As such, I give it a four.  If I were to rate it on my feelings for it, I would give it a three; if I were to rate it in terms of intellectual stimulation, it would merit a five; thus, four seems a reasonable compromise.<br />Now pardon me while I dig out my copy of Blameless again.	2000-10-30
US	52478880	RNWNI7YLNQB3O	0312873689	965046096	Night of Madness	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Up to the old standards	When an author, even a great author, returns to an old mileu after and extended absence, it's often a cause for trepidation.  Examples abound: Asimov's return to Foundation, Heinlein's return to his Future History, Clarke's return to Rama, etc.  In many cases, the new works are not only substandard, but they actually detract from the previous body.<br />As such, when I heard that Larwence Watt-Evans was going to release a new Ethshar novel after a ten year hiatus, my feelings were more than a bit mixed.  This was especially so given that I haven't been very impressed by his work in the interim.<br />I am glad to report that not only is Night of Madness a good Ethshar novel, it's a VERY good Ethshar novel.  I would easily place it just behind The Misenchanted Sword and With a Single Spell in terms of quality.  In particular, it is a good example of what I consider to be what makes Ethshar novels work:  there is a new and strange situation which causes problems with the bulk of the story drawing on dealing with and, ultimately, solving the problem.  The prose is bright and clear (no one would mistake the books for great literature, but they do an excellent job of being light and fun without descending to sophmoric stupidity).  The internal logic of the world is thoroughly consistent.  And, most importantly, the story and the settings are interesting.  <br />I am happy to see that Mr. Watt-Evans has made a successful return to his old stomping grounds.  I have missed the Ethshar sequence (in spite of the occasional less-than-worthy book) and am glad to see that his long absence hasn't diminished his capacity to continue it.  I'm definitely looking forward to many, many more to come.	2000-10-23
US	52478880	R1WE9R9F62REKD	0312868014	981105427	Marrow	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Stands on its own, if you like audacity	Okay, first an editorial comment: I hate it when people review books on the basis of superficial resemblences to other works.  This may have a big world ship, but that's where the resemblence to Rama ends, folks (nor was Rama the first: Heinlein's Universe, anyone?) -- if you want another Rama book, you should direct your comments to Clarke and Lee.<br />Now, if you can get past that, this is a work that has, I think, a genuinely audacious storyline.  Perhaps TOO audacious for some tastes.  We are talking about a storyline with hundred-thousand year old characters who are entirely willing to, among other things, wait five-thousand years (building an entire civilization in the process) in order to rescue themselves from being marooned.<br />The story is certainly an example of that grand old genre known as Space Opera.  The science may be a tad &quot;harder&quot; than the old E.E. &quot;Doc&quot; Smith books, but only a tad.  The sweep is epic and the characters are (quite literally) superhuman.  People who are looking for either fine characterization or for hard technical science really should look elsewhere, because it ain't that sort of book.  But if you can read it for what it is (especially if you are a fan of the old genre), I think that it stands up quite well.  Certainly, it's not the perfect story -- the characters could have been rendered better, and the resolution seemed a bit forced -- but it is a GOOD example of what it is.<br />The book only &quot;fails&quot; if one judges it on the basis of what is not.  At least that's my (not all that humble) opinion.	2000-10-17
US	52478880	R3RT6AHPO7136W	0921820879	125849765	Extraterrestrials: A Field Guide for Earthlings	Books	3	11	19	N	Y	Fun but not geared towards adults	This is a fun book but, I must admit, that I was a bit disappointed.  I was hoping for something geared towards adults (or, at the least, towards an intelligent teen).  This book is specificially geared towards children (i.e., a bright 8 year old or above).  It is certainly a friendly book filled with colorful (if somewhat unimaginative) drawings.  As well, it covers many of the issues relevant to the subject (e.g., why movie aliens shouldn't be regarded as realistic).  My only complaint, once you correlate it to its intended audience, is that it does speak authoritatively more often then it should for such a speculative topic (e.g., it claims that we can expect that most intelligent species should have a humanoid template which is, to say the least, a debatable position).<br />Be that as it may, I would certainly recommend it if you want to introduce a child to the topic or if you know of a child that is already interested.  For adults, however, I'd give it a miss.	2000-10-12
US	52478880	R143SWCMT8Z66F	0380792923	846552587	Signal to Noise	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	Paranoid and Edgy	Signal to Noise reads much like one would imagine a corraboration between Philip K. Dick and Larry Niven would read.  The science is generally hard (with one exception: see below), but not nearly so hard as the oppressive sense of paranoia and lurking evil.  <br />Everyone around Jack, the protagonist, is a potential enemy.  Every time he takes a step forward, he runs the risk of finding that he's been walking in the wrong direction.  Even his good intentions can have (literally) Earth shattering consequences.  And we, the audience, share his paranoia.  After awhile, the reader begins to feel like he's navigating a bewildering maze of smoke and mirrors, filled with razor-wire and spring-loaded spikes.<br />The one area where hard science gives way to soft metaphore is via the sophisticated neural-integrated virtual reality technology of the book.  Here the book really starts to seem like a PDK work.  In a brilliant variation of the tired, old VR theme, Nylund does not create his artificial experiences out of pixels projected on to retinas, but out of vivid metaphors projected directly into the brain.  There is a very literal dream quality to those sequences, heightening the sense of paranoia and the nightmare sense of running down an infinite corridore being chased by ever-closer enemies.<br />It is a good book.  True, it could have been better.  The characters could have had a tad more depth (although, in a story filled with shadows, too much depth can be a bad thing) and some of the philosophizing strike a tin note.  Never the less, it is an engaging and compelling story that plays to that part of our psyche that Kafka used to explore so very well.  It was the stort of story that demanded completion by me even as I came to feel stifled by the oppressiveness of the plot.  It is absolutely sadistic that it leaves so much to the sequel -- and absolutely delightful that it torments the reader by doing so.	2000-10-03
US	52478880	R3O9WOMLD0Y5UJ	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Chock full o' everything	The point of most books is the plot.  The plot is a sequence of events that carries you from A to B, where A is the opening of the story and B is the conclusion.  The only elaboration may be in the inclusion of a prologue  and/or and epilogue.  Most books are, to use a convinient metaphore, a book  like a one way ocean voyage where you start at one beach and end up at  another.<br />This book is not like that.  Oh, sure, there IS a beginning and  there IS an end, and there is a plot that takes you between them.  But the  fun of the book *isn't* in the plot.  It's in all the wild and unexpected  detours that you in strange and interesting directions. <br />To return to our  metaphor, if most books are an ocean cruise, this book is a surf board: you  do end up at the beach, but it isn't a straight and sedate path; sometimes  you'll be heading straight for shore, sometimes you'll be swingly wildly to  the left or right, and sometimes you'll be under the water without any  clear sense of where you are or what direction you're facing.  <br />It's like  that.  <br />Is it a book for everyone?  No.  In fact, the author has a FAQ  that does a good job of answering the question of whether or not you would  enjoy the novel at [...]<br />In  short, if you don't like long novels, novels with lots of exposition,  novels that deal with technical materials, novels with sex, violence, and  obscenity, etc, then you probably should give this one a miss.<br />If, on the  other hand, you want to take an interesting journey with lots and lots of  (apparently) random detours into a whole variety of sub-topics, then I  think that this might be a book that you would enjoy.	2000-07-25
US	52478880	RMR3MZJ1GBORB	0312868952	245512363	Into the Darkness (World at War, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Promising concept but pointless retelling of WW2.	I have long appreciated those authors who are willing to write fantasy works in worlds that are not stuck at a medeival level of development.  There aren't many of them, unfortunately.  Brust's Jhereg series comes to  mind as well as Turtledove's own &quot;The Case of the Toxic Spell  Dump&quot;.<br />When I picked up &quot;Into the Darkness&quot;, I was  intrigued by the notion of a world where the magical &quot;technology&quot;  was roughly at a level of development equivilent to our own world in World  War II.  Indeed, the first portions of the book had wonderful examples of  this.  Instead of planes, one has dragon riders; instead of submarines, one  has leviathans; instead of tanks, behemoths; instead of bombs, magically  destructive &quot;eggs&quot;; instead of guns, there are magically charged  &quot;sticks&quot;; and so forth.<br />I eagerly devoured the first third of  the book.  Even when there were direct echoes of WW2, such as research into  the deep structure of magic theory that would allow the construction of  devices of immense destructive power, I wasn't overly bothered.  Alas, it  became painfully clear that, rather than narrating a world that was going  through a similar conflict as our world had in WW2, Turtledove was simply  describing WW2, right down to specific campaigns and political events, in  fantasy terms.<br />I confess that I really don't see the point.  It's rather  like that horrible sub-genre of science fiction where a hack writer, who  only knows how to (for instance) tell westerns writes a book where horses  are called &quot;Blurgs&quot;, indians are &quot;Rubnars&quot; and six  shooters are transformed into laser zappers.  The shame is that Turtledove  *isn't* a hack writer.  He's written some very good alternative history and  some very good fantasy.  I suspect that his passion as an historian got the  better of him.<br />The thing of it is, WW2 is interesting in and of itself.   If I want to read about the actual events of WW2,there are plenty of books  out there that talk about it.  Turning tanks into behemoths and so forth,  just to get people to read about WW2, seems to be a pointless exercise in  sugar-coating that which does not need artifical sweetening.  At the best,  it seems misguided; at the worst is comes across as an insult to the  intelligence of his readers.<br />As it stands, if you are an absolute fan of  Turtledove and don't mind reading a, more or less, direct account of WW2  cast in fantasy terms, there's no reason not to pick up this book.  For  what it is, it's a fun telling in the classical tradition of the epic  novel.  If, however, you don't see the point (as, I confess, I don't), I'd  suggest giving it a miss.	2000-06-06
US	52478880	R2IV9C3ZIUGU5	1582340722	300912157	Scepticism Inc.	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Odd, quirky, and very funny.  It's also science fiction.	First of all, let me assure you that this is, in fact, a very funny, and quite well written parable.  And yes, it is a parable.  A satirical parable, an quirky parable, and a parable that is more than a bit odd, but  a parable none the less.  It's also very enjoyable.  <br />Now, if I may get  on my soapbox for a moment, I want to also note that it is also a  science-fiction story.  I mention this because the publisher seems to have  gone to pains to avoid placing it in the science-fiction section.  How else  would you describe a book whose purported author is a sentient shopping  cart sending a transmission back to Earth 80,000 in the future?<br />My guess  is that they wanted to appeal to literatti -- and anyone who considers  themselves a member of that self-selected group of high-minded individuals  is going to turn their nose up at the first whiff of SF.  Sure, they let  Vonnegut slip by, but that's only because the science-fictional elements in  his books were deliberately (one hopes) campy and self-effacing.  How often  did KV describe is unaltered-ego, Kilgore Trout, as a bad writer?<br />The  downside is that many people who read SF are never going to notice this  great little story because it will be sitting on a shelf that a lot of them  never look at, while the people who do purvey the &quot;General  Fiction&quot; racks will, more likely than not, give it a miss after a  cursory glance at the first few pages.  More the pity.<br />Much the same  thing happened with another notable (albeit somewhat less laudible) book,  &quot;Resume with Monsters&quot;, which clearly belonged in the Horror  section of the bookstore but which was, never the less, shelved in that  vast expanse of uncatagorized titles.<br />I guess the lesson is that a lot of  publishers have a low opinion of genre fiction readers, beliving them to be  interested in cliches and stories whose plots could be written on the  wrapper of a pack of bubble-gum, so they attempt to steer literate examples  of genre fiction away from the very readers that such fiction is most  likely to appeal to.  The consequence is that, because genre fiction is  perceived as being distinct from literature, it ends up getting  cumulatively dumbed-down, while those examples of works that deserve to be  called literature is fed to an audience that's primed to reject them on the  basis of similar sentiments.  In short, such works are the victim of a  self-fufilling, self-purpetuating philosophy that ends of hurting everyone  in the long run.<br />Okay, enough of the soapbox.  It's a very good, very fun  story, and if you don't have any prejudices against science-fiction or  &quot;literate&quot; works, and you don't mind a plot that is  simultaneously strange and theologically controversial, I imagine that you  would probably enjoy the book.	2000-05-22
US	52478880	RBYHZ7BNTA684	034543529X	144693382	Dragon's Egg (Del Rey Impact)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	This is Hard SF!	Let us be clear: This is a Hard Science-Fiction novel.  The plot is driven by the science.  If deep characterization is a requisit for you enjoying a novel, you will NOT enjoy this one.  It would be like reading Hemingway for  his purple prose.<br />That said, this is a great Hard SF work with genuinely  mind bending ideas.  If you like reading about truly alien environments,  there's few things more alien than the surface of a neutron star.  Most  importantly, Forward makes it all seem plausible.	2000-03-23
US	52478880	R3VSSH5IHENKV4	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	20	24	N	N	IT'S BACK IN PRINT!	IT'S BACK IN PRINT!  IT'S BACK IN PRINT!  Thank all the gods, it's finally back in print! <br />The book is everything promised and so much more.  A mature counter-point to the (also excellent) &quot;Creature of Light and  Darkness&quot;, the book is not diminished by re-reading.<br />Even though I  have the story comitted to memory, along with numerous key quotes, it  remains fresh and insightful -- indeed, timeless.  The book was written in  1967 and could have just as easily been read today.  <br />The characters are  distinct and original and, yet, at the same time the story has an epic and  poetic feel that is perfectly appropriate to its subject matter.<br />Zelazny  was the Lord of Writers and we shan't see his like again.  Let us only hope  that this book is the first of many re-prints to come.	2000-03-23
US	52478880	RUOG76TI7T6PV	044111816X	448868894	Cowboy Feng's Space Bar and Grille	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Not so hot.	Brust is a master fantasist.  In that realm, he is without compare.  His work often evokes the sense of awe and whimsy that the best of Zelazny's work does without any overlap in style.  Brust is truly a great  author.<br />But it doesn't seem that his talents extend to science fiction.   I'm really not sure why, but it's true.  Every SF short story of his that  I've read has fallen on its face and this novel... oh my, this novel... is  simply not very good.  I wanted to like it, and I tried to like it, but to  no avail.  Whatever it is within Brust's talents that allow him to give so  much life to his fantasies seems to be completely lacking from this  work.<br />The only reason I can think of for wanting this book would be if  you simply *had* to have a complete collection of Brust's works.   Otherwise, I'd recommend passing on it.  It's Brust, but it ain't that  great.	1999-12-15
US	52478880	R3JG4DC9N118RN	0441814999	29830141	To Reign In Hell	Books	5	10	14	N	N	I'm keeping my copy!	Like most others, I too made the mistake of lending out copies that never got back.  I wised up by the fifth copy I bought.<br />Now, here's the amazing thing... I don't re-read books.  Not normally.  This book and Zelaznys  _Creatures of Light and Darkness_ are the only two books on my shelf that  I've re-read innumerable times.  I can literally flip this book open to a  random page and go &quot;Ah yes, I remember that!&quot;<br />In fact, it was  because of Zelazny's prologue that I picked up the book in the first place.   I respect Zelazny in his own right, but I will have an undying sense of  gratitude to him for pointing me to this talented young author at the very  start of his career.  I have since gone on to read nearly everything that  Brust has written and have been very satisfied with most of it (although I  didn't think much of some works, like _Cowboy Feng's Spacetime Bar and  Grill_).  _To Reign in Hell_, however, will always hold a special place in  my heart.  One could argue that Agray had tighter plotting or that Teckla  carried a greater sense of pathos, but Reign just seems so perfectly right  on all levels that I can't help but to proclaim it my favorite fantasy  novel... period.<br />Just remember... do NOT lend this book to ANYONE!	1999-12-14
US	52478880	R29UT1LHNVEZWB	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	3	40	43	N	N	A bullet train that smacks into a marshmellow	This is one book that starts off well.  Let's be clear about one thing: no one, and I mean no one, writes about military science-fiction with the sense of versimilitude that Joe Haldeman commands.  The opening portion of  the book is definitely military in nature, then Haldeman does the  unexpected by deepening the book with moral and practical dilemmas that  take it to a whole new level, all the while ratcheting up the tension and  complexity of the story.<br />I don't think that I've ever felt this much  stress when reading a story.  I found the characters compelling and  engaging and I was impressed that Haldeman didn't pull any punches at  throwing problems their way.  If anything, it almost seemed like he was  trying to destroy them.<br />By the time it reaches its conclusion, the story  is moving along like a bullet train -- sleek, beautiful, and fast -- and  then it hits a big, marshmellowish deus ex machina.  Worse, the ending  *literally* takes the form of &quot;and over the next two years, X  happened&quot;.<br />It was a real let-down.  I think that Haldeman realized  that he was 300+ pages into the story and, dammit, there was the end coming  up!  I can understand that, but he should have made this into a trilogy.   There was certainly enough story potential to turn it into one.  As it is,  we have a truly brilliant book that's crippled by a truly sallow  ending.<br />I think that it's worth picking up.  I really do.  The ending is  poor but the rest of the book is filled with so much brilliance, energy,  and passion that I really think that it deserves to be read.  Just... flesh  out the ending in your imagination when you get to it.	1999-12-09
US	52478880	R179FY9S31QOI6	0553576399	15854629	Distraction	Books	2	5	6	N	N	It Fizzles	The book starts out with so many great concepts that it was really an easy choice for me to buy it on the basis on reading the first few chapters.  And a lot of interesting things happen along the way to the end.  But it  strangely fizzles out before the conclusion, which is a major  disappointment.  In fact, there really didn't even quite seem to *be* an  ending.  I felt like someone must have chopped out the last hundred pages.   <br />Likewise, Oscar starts out as an intersting character but he never, ever  changes and we never really seem to get inside of him or achieve any sort  of understanding of him.  For a character that seems so deep and  interesting when you first assay him, you end up with the feeling that he's  just an android spounting endless bits of dialogue to no real purpose.<br />A  shame.  Read Schismatrix or Heavy Weather instead.	1999-12-03
US	52478880	RXFOITAYOOF21	006105092X	70195658	Teranesia: A Novel	Books	5	31	40	N	Y	Hard Science + Good Characterization = Great Story	Make no mistake, this is a character driven novel.  Some of Egan's fans have apparently been put off by this.  Don't be.  This is a hard SF book,  through and through, and it goes a long way towards dispelling the myth  that hard science in SF means shallow plotting and characterizations.  The  central biological mystery, in particular, has a very satisfying and  imaginative resolution.<br />Egan says that he'll be returning to dense  physics in his next book, but that he's going to continue striving to make  plot and character central elements of his works.  I find this a refreshing  attitude and wish him luck in doing so.	1999-10-27
US	52478880	R1DNDFQXKIB5IP	0201696967	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web: VQS (3rd Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well layed out	Just like a good web page, this book is well organized and easy to read.  The explanations are kept deliberately simply, which serves to enhance its  function as a reference work that you can return to again and again,  instead of forcing you to read through dense tutorials every time you just  need a simple reminder.	1999-10-27
US	52478880	RF3YCIQZ6XLSH	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	A poor meal of a book	Is this book were a meal, it would be a bowl of water thin apologetic soup, some hard cheese literalism, a club-you-over-the-head morality sandwich, a side of paper-thin character chips with a heaping bowl of word  salad, to go.<br />Although it definitely leaves a stong taste in your mouth,  it's just not very filling.	1999-09-11
US	52478880	R3RWZDF7TTZL7E	1575660083	47100202	The Relativity of Wrong	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Not a grad-level text, which is perfect	Those who are expecting an advanced text of physics, chemisty, or astronomy are going to be disappointed.  This is a popularization.  It's aimed at people who want to understand the basics of science but who don't  have formal training.  On that level, it suceeds brilliantly.  <br />Even  those that do have formal training, however, could benefit from reading the  eponymous essay which offers a great rebuttal to those who think that  scientific theories are just current guesses that can be radically  overthrown at any given moment.	1999-09-10
US	52478880	R2IFEOONPZLLPJ	0801857074	647051713	Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Buy it.  Read it.	To often, silence implies consent.  Scientists have a tendency to ignore non-sense, perhaps believing that no rational person could be swayed and that the irrational people of the world aren't relevant.  Fortunately, the  rise of Creationism in American politics was a strong wake up call.   <br />Levitt and Gross now take the challenge to the pseudo-science being  produced by the Academic Left.  It's good to see that scientists now  understand that one can not be silent in the face of the absurd, the  ignorant, and the deranged.	1999-07-29
US	52478880	R10VT7Y8ZA6X3Y	0812545206	737885864	Between the Rivers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Impressive	I think that Harry Turtledove is a writer of uneven talent.  In my opinion, his novels alternate between the brilliant and the banal.  Between the Rivers is one of the former.  <br />The core concept of the book, alone,  deserves high praise for its innovativeness.  Such a high-concept plot, by  itself, could make a book worth reading.  Turtledove takes the story to a  higher level by brilliantly capturing the feel of what it would be like to  live in the early bronze age.  Under his authorship, he turns what could  have been a simple story about simple folk into a complex tale of faith and  reason.  Most importantly, he shows that, in their own way, the people of  that time were extremely sophisticated and that they were undergoing the  equivilant of high-tech revolution in their culture.  <br />This is certainly  one of the better books that I've read this year and I'm certain that I  shall long remember it.	1999-07-27
US	52478880	R1799LN5QHPUAT	0441808948	900040377	The Tides of God (Ace Science Fiction Special)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Innovative look at theology from a science-fictional POV	It's a real shame that this book is no longer in print.  The premise of this story is that religious beliefs are the products of alien satelites following millenium long orbits.  When these artifacts approach Earth,  religion propers and civilization tends to decline.  When they recede,  skepticism and rationalism prevail and humanity advances.  As the book  opens, humans are at the apex of their most recent Enlightenment, but the  satelite is, once again, approaching.  Only, this time (with the aid of  another species), we know it and have sent out a ship to destroy  it.<br />Although the book seems to be anti-theistic from the start, it is  actually more subtle and complex than that.  As the destroyer approaches  the artifact, the crew comes under the sway of religious conviction,  developing new theologies and schimisming into heresies at a frightening  pace.  But is all religion bad?  Is the artifact, in fact, merely an alien  device, or is it, in fact, the voice of the divine?  And, if it is the  voice of the divine, are we better off with it or without it?  <br />This is a  complex and engrossing story.  For those interested in theological fiction,  I stongly recommend hunting down a copy for your personal library.	1999-07-23
US	52478880	R3HWS4IZZLSQUY	0312856830	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky	Books	5	125	126	N	Y	A Deeper Symmetry than Some Realize	Some have questioned the relation between A Deepness in the Sky and A Fire Upon the Deep, complaining that, aside from being in the same universe and sharing one character, that they have nothing in common.<br />I beg to  differ.<br />A Deepness in the Sky is a Fire Upon the Deep turned inside out.   There is a brilliant symmetry between the two novels and I definitely  believe that either novel is enhanced by the reading of the other.<br />AFUtD  was grand space opera.  It was also representative of what Mr. Vinge hopes  the future can be: unlimited vistas and boundless advances in technology.   As a consequence, the book had a tendency to focus on its grand vision to  the detriment of its characters, who ended up feeling flattened by  comparison (read some of the Amazon customer reviews for AFUtD to see what  I mean).<br />ADitS, by contrast, represents Mr. Vinge's fear of what the  future may hold for us.  If technology does, in fact, plateau at some level  and if the technological singularity is never achieved, Mr. Vinge predicts  that humanity will be doomed to an endless sequence of technological rises  and falls.  ADitS makes, in my opinion, some very good cases for this.  As  a consequence, even though the book is chock full of high technology, with  respect to our civilization, and even though it imagines humanity spread  among the stars, it manages to convey a sense of claustrophobia -  especially for those who have read AFUtD.  Because the universe is so  &quot;cramped&quot;, the focus of the novel is directed (with almost  painful intensity) upon the characters of the novel.<br />This novel is long  and it has more than its fair share of depressing aspects. I can not,  however, think of anything that ought to have been subtracted from it.  As  for the sense of pessimism, I think that it is absolutely critical to read  this in context of the largert universe presented in AFUtD.  Yes, the  characters, and their cultures, are trapped within a cosmological box, but  it's a box that DOES have an open end.  An opening that will, more  importantly, be found by Pham Nguwen... just not yet.<br />In sum, I think that  this is a true tour de force and an entirely apt sequel to A Fire Upon the  Deep.	1999-07-15
US	52478880	R21JPICDF6EETE	0312866925	372914796	Dragon	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	A nice reversion to a light tale	The Vlad Taltios books run the gammut of styles.  We've had intricate mysteries, frothy adventures, grim dramas, weird psychodramas, and even one book which essentially managed to make a plot out of the S&amp;L crisis.   I've been thoroughly pleased with all of the books, as I am with most of  Brusts work, but I have noticed that the last few books in the series have  been heavy going.  It's no wonder, Vlad's life hasn't been an easy one for  awhile.  Be that as it may, I'm ver glad tat Brust decided to return to an  earlier period in Vlad's life in order to give us a solid, but relatively  light novel.  Make no mistake, this is a good novel and it shouldn't be  dismissed because it avoids the heavy philosophy and drama of the last  couple of books.  If anything, this is a relief.  Even Shakespear would  take an occasional break, during his tragedies, to provide a bit of comic  relief.<br />In terms of developing the overall story, a few plot points are  introduced, and several more are resolved, but nothing as major or  spectacular as the shocker at the end of Orca involving Keira (although one  of the better throw-away lines in Dragon plays off that revelation).  I'd  almost say that you could skip this book if you prefer the hard stuff, but  knowing how Brust likes to introduce stealth plots that don't become  apparent for quite some time (for instance, a certain vial of blood  mentioned in Taltos), I really wouldn't recommend that.<br />All in all, a  very fun book, though I do look forward to returning to the  &quot;present&quot; choronology.	1998-12-21
US	52478880	RVME6K1ORQ90N	0441005586	11987625	The Golden Globe	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Disappointing because Varley *can* be so damned good.	I've been a John Varley fan from way, way back.  In particular, I've read every single Eight Worlds story that's ever seen print, including all the hard-to-find short stories.  When I saw this at the bookstore, I leapt at  the chance to buy it right that minute.<br />Alas, I was disappointed.  In  retrospect, it wasn't so much that it was a bad novel, per se, though it  certainly had more than a few hack plots, but that I've come to expect so  very much more from Varley.  Varley has always been one of the Big Vision  writers, of the sort that Heinlein (who he's unfortunately started to  emulate in style), Egan, and Niven are (or were).  When I crack open a  Varley book, I expect to have my sense of wonder expanded.  I don't expect  cutsey comments, from the protaganist to the type-setter, about the way  that italics are used.  I want new vistas, not &quot;Gangsters in  Space&quot;.  I want to read about new social and political solutions, not  warmed-over Libertarianism with a Heinleinian gloss. In short, I want  something better than I got.<br />With the exception of the segment of the  book set on Oberon II (an artificial world being made from the Uranian moon  Oberon where, among other things, the buildings move around over time),  most of the science fiction concentrated on themes that have been done (and  often done to death).  Again, if this were another writer, I might be more  forgiving, but dammit, John Varley is better than this and I've learned to  expect more.<br />I'd certainly recommend picking this up.  Aside from the  central character's sometimes over-the-top rougishness, it's a solid piece  of science fiction, but it's also run of the mill in most respects.	1998-12-21
