US	52479294	R1TRQNTBC1N4BM	0393019675	83425625	A Life of Jung	Books	2	21	21	N	N	Freudian Reading Of Jung	Other reviews have pointed out some serious problems with this book: the scattered telling of the story, the sometimes unclear writing, the fact that one does not come away with a very clear picture of Jung's thought even after 450 pages of summarizing his theories. But there is another reason I was disappointed in this book: namely, that Hayman is a Freudian who criticizes Jung through Freud's eyes (Read Louis Breger's \\"Freud: Darkness in the Midst of Vision\\" for an example of how bad an idea that is). While Hayman assumes as common sense that we accept the theories of the typically modern, sex-crazed, materialistic Freud, he criticizes Jung precisely for presuming to break with Freud, thereby assuring (in Hayman's mind) that Jung and Jungians will remain in the arena of madness, rather than mental health. Hayman quotes a psychoanylist, with marked approval, who says: \\"If [Jung's] main life's work was in the end to be founded on a personal and scientific incompatibility with Freud, there are those who believe, like myself, that this was a disaster, and in part an illusion, from which we suffer and will continue to do so until we have repaired the damage.\\" (p. 213) In short, the only way to be an acceptable Jungian is to be a Freudian. As many of us have found the modern ethos of sex and materialism to be a dead end, and trying to re-think spirituality in an age of the dessicated fanaticism of fundamentalist religions hard enough in itself, a dependence on Freud is surely no help. If one need not acept Jung as if he were a god -- always the problem of Freudians in relation to their master -- at least Jung has pointed the way for many people to a view of life that is compatible with a regenerative spirituality, not just Freudian myths about repressed childhood trauma and the primacy of sexuality in self-understanding. Hayman's biography has the very desirable effect of presenting Jung as a man whose life was troubled by psychosis and full of the turn-of-the-century Spiritualism that tends no longer to be accepted as factual among thinking people. Worshippers of Jung doubtless don't like this aspect of the book. For myself, I found the manner of Jung's break with Freud -- his experiences of internal dialogue and vivid fantasy, his belief that sexuality is only one factor among many in human life, his refusal to submit to the enervating Freudian materialism as a final arbiter in all judgements, his wide-ranging interest in creation myths as opposed to Freud's reductive readings of Oepipus et al, his belief that we should explore the fantasies and delusions we encounter in life in relation to the world of archetypes rather than trying to extirpate them by analysis and replace them with Freud's own truncated little fantasies -- to be more creative and productive than if he had remained a Freudian true believer. But let's not worship Jung, either: reading Hayman may not make Jung quite clear, or an acceptable object of worship, but the former (along with the implicit Freudianism) is the real problem I had with his book, not the latter.	2002-11-11
US	52479294	R3K7HG9J3IXMFZ	0520218175	707976535	Passport Photos	Books	2	5	14	N	N	Precious and Self-Obsessed	Perhaps the most fascinating thing about this book is the perfection with which it achieves the standard contemporary literary tone of precious artiness, adding to that a self-referential style that never allows the reader out of the jealous and controlling grasp of the author even for a nano-second, and the sort of facile political posturing that has made universties such unbearable places to be these days. I actually burst into laughter any number of times when the dead-serious author said something so utterly and humorlessly awful that I could not believe he had the audacity to print it. Well, such is academic life these days. Best to avoid this book unless you like the sort of kitschy, naive-arty posturing on display, or if you are interested in what I think of as faculty meeting nouveau in art.	2002-03-07
US	52479294	R3OKB0SAVPTDT8	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	2	13	16	N	N	disappointing	I absolutely loved The Talisman and The Dark Tower series so I was incredibly pleased when I received The Black House as a gift. I couldn't wait to see what King and Straub had come up with this time. <br />Having just finished it, I have to say that I was incredibly disapointed and that only two such big authors could have gotten away with publishing a book that required so much editing. Overall the story was majorly unbalanced -- the first 100 pages were just pure description and meeting characters. I have nothing again description, but come on! Any other book I would have put down long before this one finally started to pick up. I hated that &quot;floating camera&quot; narrator -- it was extremely irritating and distracting and robbed many scenes of their punch by hinting at future events. The final showdown at the end of the book was strangely anticlimatic and very underdeveloped. Much too easy for all the buildup that went into it.<br />Normally when I get a new Stephen King book I read it in a matter of days but this one didn't tempt me to stay up all night as others have. It took me a couple of weeks to slog through it. <br />Save your money and get it from the library if you must read it -- that's where my copy is going.	2002-02-03
US	52479294	R24ZQBCM67EEND	0684801345	51493318	Raising a Happy, Unspoiled Child (How Parents Can Help Their Baby Develop Into a Secure and We)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Helping me to have a delightful unspoiled child	I was given this book by a friend who told me she wished she had found when her then 4 year old was a baby. I gave this book 4 stars because as other reviewers have pointed out, the writing is a bit dry and after a few attempts I stopped even looking at the few graphs, but overall I have found this book enormously helpful. <br />The advice given is very practical and the book has helped me to recognize my daughter's &quot;new&quot; (sometimes confusing) behaviors as normal stages in her development and also to form strategies to help her through the potential pit falls and to deal with the inevitable rough spots. I re-read the section dealing with her current age from time to time just to remind myself of what I should be looking for / doing.<br />My daughter is 15 months old now and when we were visiting family this summer I got nothing but compliments on her. Thank you Burton White.	2001-10-18
US	52479294	R3IR6OK1RYC7DN	0140133968	135713761	Nice Work (King Penguin)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A Major Disappointment	Having previously read Lodge's other hilarious send-ups of academic literature types (Changing Places and Small World) I was looking forward to this novel, assuming that it would be more of the same. His other books show the silly games and the shallow politicking that is the substance of most academic careers -- the most creative folks have long since run for cover outside academe -- and do so with an insider's perspective. No one knows the silliness of professors better than Professor Lodge does. Unfortunately, with this book, Loge seems to be losing his touch. This novel was not funny at all, and I found the condescension towards the straw man businessman to be no more than typical of how academics view those who aren't academics. The feminist professor, spouting all of the dull, predictable and rather squalid stuff that has replaced literary studies in universities, is actually presented as one who will bring enlightenment to a dull-minded soul who has no thoughts of his own! How far has Lodge fallen! From academic satire, in which everyone looks either silly, shallow, ambitious, dull, or usually some combination of the above, we come to Lodge acting as some sort of apologist for what he had previously, apparently, found very funny. Well, that's a shame, because Lodge can be very funny and very iconoclastic when he wants to be. So be it. I'll continue to enjoy Changing Places and Small World, which stand with Lucky Jim as some of the funniest pieces of academic satire I've ever read, and send Nice Work off for someone else to read.	2001-08-21
US	52479294	R3CF1DU1YS3UXI	0847694305	927836702	A Concise History of the Crusades (Critical Issues History)	Books	2	41	127	N	N	Crusades Pep Rally	Having studied both Middle Eastern and European history at the graduate level I am always interested to see how scholars deal with the Crusades, since it is a subject that tends to show the unacknowledged bias of the authors. The author of this book, for instance, while cloaking himself in teh language of scholarship, is actually a good Christian who writes of the Crusades as their greatest supporter. He is outraged by any suggestion that the Crusades were motivated by anything other than piety and good faith -- &quot;Pious idealism had brought these courageous knights to teh Holy Land . . .&quot; he says at one point, sounding like a 19th century clergyman writing a children's book for Sunday Schools -- and scoffs elaboratley at Sir Steven Runciman's famous summary of the Crusades as &quot;nothing more than a long act of intolerance in the name of God.&quot; Madden adopts the idealized self-image of the medieval Crusaders as if it were perfectly true to reality, and literally cheers the Crusaders on all through the book. Here is his rather embarrassing summary of King Richard I of England: &quot;Richard I was the epitome of French Chivalric culture. Well educated, well spoken, and even an accomplished poet, the Lionheart was also a bold man of action. A young man of 32 when he took the throne, Richard was an imposing figure -- tall, blond and physically strong. Like the knights of teh chansons de geste, he was a daring figure, placing himself in personal danger without a thought, always eager to take part in any clash of arms.&quot; (87) This is the sort of pangyric that any historian is trained to see through -- it's written to a formula for each king by his creatures, and Madden accepts it as if it were a simple portrait. As the book progresses and the various crusades invade the Middle East, Madden falls into teh old langauge problem that always assails Christian apologists: the Crusaders are brave, valiant, and pious; the Muslims always brutal and wicked. When the Crusaders slaughter Muslim people, it's passed over quickly and with little or no comment; when Muslims slaughter Christians, it's always dwelt upon as a great tragedy, described as a &quot;massacre&quot; and condemned as a product of Muslim brutality. But perhaps of of the funniest problem Madden gets into is his desire to redefine the Crusades as &quot;armed pilgrimage,&quot; not as holy war, since this latter term he preserves only for Muslims (jihad), and consistently accuses them of hypocrisy when they declare a holy war to be rid of teh Frankish invaders. The reason for this hair-splitting? Simple enough: Madden wants to insist that the Crusades were not wars at all! They were pilgrimages that had to be armed to accomplish their goal of reaching Jerusalem and liberating it from teh wicked infidel! All the rest, he insists, is incidental. All of the endless seiges, the power struggles, the massacres, the battles, the destruction of teh population of entire cities -- all of this was just a series of footnotes to the wish of some good Christians to make the pilgrimage to Jerusalem. If that's not the most retrograde reading of the Crusades in the modern world, I don't know what is. And for all that, Madden is a well-meaning fellow, and he tries to be fair, but he just can't do it. He's too engrossed in the rhetoric of chivalric piety in his sources adn it overwhelms his good intentions. In teh end, he writes a competent academic treatment of the Crusades from a Catholci perspective, and if you like such a competence, then this book should serve. It's competence does not extend beyond that goal, however, and anyone interested in any degree whatsoever in the Muslim world will be sorely disappointed. For seculer readers, Runciman has certainly not been replaced.the Crusaders slaughter Muslim people, it's passed over quickly and with little or no comment; when Muslims slaughter Christians, it's always dwelt upon as a great tragedy, described as a &quot;massacre&quot; and condemned as a product of Muslim brutality. But perhaps of of the funniest problem Madden gets into is his desire to redefine the Crusades as &quot;armed pilgrimage,&quot; not as holy war, since this latter term he preserves only for Muslims (jihad), and consistently accuses them of hypocrisy when they declare a holy war to be rid of teh Frankish invaders. The reason for this hair-splitting? Simple enough: Madden wants to insist that the Crusades were not wars at all! They were pilgrimages that had to be armed to accomplish their goal of reaching Jerusalem and liberating it from teh wicked infidel! All the rest, he insists, is incidental. All of the endless seiges, the power struggles, the massacres, the battles, the destruction of teh population of entire cities -- all of this was just a series of footnotes to the wish of some good Christians to make the pilgrimage to Jerusalem. If that's not the most retrograde reading of the Crusades in the modern world, I don't know what is. And for all that, Madden is a well-meaning fellow, and he tries to be fair, but he just can't do it. He's too engrossed in the rhetoric of chivalric piety in his sources adn it overwhelms his good intentions. In teh end, he writes a competent academic treatment of the Crusades from a Catholci perspective, and if you like such a competence, then this book should serve. It's competence does not extend beyond that goal, however, and anyone interested in any degree whatsoever in the Muslim world will be sorely disappointed. For seculer readers, Runciman has certainly not been replaced.	2001-06-13
US	52479294	RY53624VX15KX	1573927406	940555828	Monsieur Rene: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Pleasant, Witty, Read	M. Rene is a very pleasant, worldly novel that has all of the charm that one would expect from Ustinov, but also some very real intelligence, obviously the product of a thoughtful life. The writing can be a bit meandering, but I'm more interested in characters than plots, so that was not fatal. The story of an old man having an awakening, having a rebirth of sorts, is a wonderful thing, showing the fact that our lives are always capable of being renewed in spirit. Ustinov also gave us a nice glimpse into Swiss society and into the world of those who work in fashionable hotels, which are doubtless more familiar to him than they are to the rest of us! Overall, I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it to those in search of a book with some brains and a sense of humor. Just don't look for a &quot;thrilling, intricate, page-turner of a novel.&quot; It's more ruminating than that, and infinitely more satisfying.	2001-04-27
US	52479294	R1GP774S69PUS5	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Good, But Not For Those Who Like Quality Writing	Cornwell's King Arthur books have the same strengths and weaknesses as do his Sharpe's books. These can be a fun read, the action is good, and the research is good. But what eventually causes me to grind to a halt with Cornwell is his prose. His writing is like reading hurried jornalism -- flat, undistinguished, and monotonous. The editorial review suggests that this is American diction, but Cornwell is, in fact, English. It's just language without music. For myself, I need better prose to stick with someone, and for popular ficton that means someone such as P.D. James or John Le Carre, who have the ability both to engage you with their style and to entertain you with the story. Cornwell is okay reading, but eventually I just look elsewhere.	2001-04-04
US	52479294	RJ63UIDVOGTOF	006250925X	333552374	The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets	Books	1	13	31	N	N	If It Makes You Feel Good As a Feminist, It Must Be True!	Having consulted this book recently at a library and been stunned by it's scholarly pretense, I thought I would review it here -- only to find that others had already nicely dismantled it. Just one comment for those who wonder if deriding this bit of propoganda makes one a woman-hater, as is implied by its True Believer advocates: has it occurred to them that just because something makes them feel good as feminists, that doesn't make it true or accurate? This book is a historical hatchet job, no more scholarly than the &quot;scholarship&quot; of Communist Party hacks in the late and unlamented Soviet Union, and the idea that people are *afraid* of Walker's book because it's TRUE, and therefore threatening, rather than FALSE, and therefore disturbing, is patently absurd. There's much of interest in the world of myths concerning women. It's just that it all manages to escape this author.	2001-03-24
US	52479294	R1X6OB6DPYX10V	0679731199	79499449	Iron John: A Book About Men	Books	5	290	305	N	N	A Few Hints	This book has been well summarized and reviewed, but here are a few hints to those considering buying it. <br />(1) This is not a work of academic sociology. Do not come to Iron John for suggestions about social policy for your dissertation or articles. He does not regard professors as intellectuals, but rather puts them in the same category as businessmen or others trapped on soulless career tracks. Creative people are driven from academe quite early, in grad school, and Bly knows it. (2) This is a suggestive, exploratory, poetic attempt to use myth as a form of guidance for people in their real lives. That is, Bly seems more interested in throwing out powerful images and myths concerning men and men's lives and trying to make sense of them within our context of media-saturated consciousness than he is in traditional academic argument. It's an alternative to academic approaches, not in competition with them, and that is partly what makes it so wonderful: we're free to grasp at what interests us and leave what doesn't. Swimming in the questions is a beautiful thing. (3) Bly was an old 60s activist. If you can't bear the thought of someone not being conservative then don't read Bly. If, like me, you're conservative but not Republican, you'll be fine. (4) Having spent ten years in academe before running, screaming, in the opposite direction, I can tell you that Bly is no kow-towing feminist and no victimologist. Anyone who thinks Bly is too feminist needs to be stranded in a Women's Studies department for an afternoon. Then you'll come to him begging forgiveness. Bly is too careful of the feminists, I agree, but they're after him every step of the way trying to shut him up.  He's despised by gender fascists, who see him as an advocate of violence against women. For them, a man is merely a potential rapist, end of discussion, and any attempt to portray them otherwise is seen as a pure wish to attack all women and bring harm to them. As for victimology, Bly is not seeing men as victims, alone, but as people who don't fit the above feminist profile everywhere and all the time. There are sick, brutal men, of course, but Bly wants to help men to see that they can be happier and more fulfilled if they dispense with both the feminist cliches and mass-media stud cliches and try to get in touch with something deeper, something with a lineage back into the furthest reaches of history, and something profoundly important to all men. He's very conservative in this way, as am I, and wants to restore some of the virtues of a strong, responsible, mature man whose strength is not a danger to women. Is that so evil? (5) Bly has mean things to say about New Age, contrary to what people seem to think would be the case. He treats New Age as what it is: floating, indecisive, maleable, pleasantries that never really provide a basis for anything. Bly wants grounding for men in myths and initiations that are robust and strong, and New Age is anything but that. (6) Read Bly with his poetic vocation in mind: poems do not make point-by-point arguments, but rather engage the mind, the senses, the feelings, and leave an impression. That's Iron John all over, and if that leaves you wanting something else, there are Men'Studies departments in the universities who will provide what you want. This is a book for the imagination as well as the mind, and that is why it is very engaging and beautiful.	2001-03-21
US	52479294	RW6SS31YXKAPL	0393312844	72937801	Of Woman Born: Motherhood as Experience and Institution	Books	1	25	222	N	N	A Sad Book And Sad Comment on Modernity	I was forced to read this book in a class recently by the usual suspect, my feminist professor, and was very sad to see that this piece of lesbian hatred of the family was being pushed upon young women in my class at a vulnerable time of their lives. The usual atmosphere in universities now, in which young women are asked either to agree with feminist diatribes of this sort or be labelled weak and a tool of men, was so plainly at work here. I'm older than the others in my class, and a father and husband, and the book was so plainly the product of a neurotic, unhappy person that I was having difficulty understanding why we were reading it. The vast majority of women want families and to be mothers and wives, and they need help to do it better, not to be force-fed this sort of weak broth. When Rich says of her pregnancy and motherhood, &quot;I only knew that I had lived through something which was considered central to the lives of women... a key to the meaning of life; and that I could remember little except anxiety, physical weariness, anger, self-blame, boredom, and divisions within myself,&quot; she admits to something sad, not hoepful, and demeans her children and their worth. Poor, sad, neurotic woman. I think young women would be best served to view this book as something to avoid -- or at least as something to view with pity, and not permit your professors force you to agree with it.	2001-03-18
US	52479294	R25UK2LDZNK81S	0618043705	876960131	The Best American Essays of the Century	Books	2	23	46	N	N	A Typical Academic's View	I'm afraid I must dissent from the slavering praise others have betowed upon this collection. It is purely the work of an academic who cannot conceive that any anthology would be complete with out the over-rated bombast of such as Maya Angelou. This latter statement is heresy in academe, of course, but there it is -- I'm not one of them. This collection should have been called &quot;The Essays of the Century Most Likely to Appeal to Liberal Academics,&quot; since that is certainly all it is. Are the best essays here? Some of them are indeed great. But there are far too many included because of the perceived need to achive &quot;diversity&quot; in all things, rather than excellence. It's a familiar problem to all of us, but I think the fact that this collection is contained in an ongoing series without anything in the title to suggest its contents is rather misleading. Be wary!	2001-03-18
US	52479294	R2SRBH6GO88MA5	0486288498	765445427	Old Mother West Wind (Dover Children's Thrift Classics)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Ignore the Pompous Editorial Review	I read Burgess as a child and have loved him ever since. These wonderful stories inspire a love of animals and a love of nature, but not at the expense of good, old-fashioned American story-telling, and those who dismiss them as &quot;sentimental&quot; are displaying an unbecoming pomposity, in my view. Old Mother West Wind is beautiful classic, a book that escapes the pushy realism of so much contemporary storytelling aimed at children, which is really the choice of the parent, and not the child. Let kids imagine! It'll last them all their lives. What a gift, indeed!	2001-02-23
US	52479294	R1W4D8PJM7FOJH	067165831X	786049421	Hot Shot	Books	1	29	35	N	N	This is NOT a romance	SEP is one of my favorite romance authors - I was hooked with &quot;Nobody's Baby but Mine&quot; and &quot;Lady Be Good&quot; - so when I was looking for more of her books to read, the reviews I found here convinced me that I had found another winner. <br />I couldn't have been more surprised and disappointed by how truly BAD this book is. It lacked all of the wit and sparkle of her other writing and the characters were completely without depth and failed to capture any of my sympathy. (I actually actively disliked both Susannah and Sam for the first half of the book. I grew resigned to Susannah but still couldn't see what she saw in Sam, an arrogant and vulgar jerk.) As one of the other reviewers here noted, SEP probably did do a tremendous amount of research for this book. But her research overshadowed the romance of the story entirely. If I had wanted to read about the history of microcomputers I would have gotten one of the books that SEP suggests in her acknowlegments.<br />And where exactly were the editors of this book? One of the first rules of fiction is &quot;show, don't tell&quot; but this book consists of LONG passages of tedious narration and flashbacks when a few well done scenes could have conveyed the information much more effectively. In other cases, repetitive phrasing such as &quot;electronics permeated the air&quot; and &quot;a public relations nightmare&quot; was used over and over on the same page, which just smacks of amateurish writing. The only time I actually laughed during the book was when Mitch and Susannah were speaking. Mitch asked Susannah to let him use a video game before her and she refuses. His reply is, &quot;at least I don't have to beat off Yank too.&quot;<br />I would have given &quot;Hot Shot&quot; NO stars if I could have. I am a lone dissenting opinion here but if you are a fan of SEP's later work, I suggest you give this one a miss. If you simply must read it, check it out of the library and please, please, please let thistitle fade off into &quot;out of print&quot; land...	2001-02-20
US	52479294	R13CSC7WESTM4I	0140119507	139133722	If the River Was Whiskey: Stories (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Made Me Snooze	When I picked up this book of stories it was the promise of something a bit crazy that attracted me. I should have known better. When ever people say something's a bit dotty I usually find the stories pretty bland, and this was no exception. It made me feel a bit creepy -- the way sitting in Creative Writing classes made me feel. There's this sort of precious, trying-too-hard, attitude that permeates this collection that reminds me of pink hair, unfiltered cigarettes and black clothes, but not of great writing. There's no enduring heart or grit about these stories. They're slick, fluent and trendy, but not the sort of thing I would ever read again. It struck me that Boyle is one of those writers who appeal to the folks who are worried about how &quot;colorful&quot; their adjectives are, and sound contrived as a result. To me, he just isn't that interesting.	2001-02-17
US	52479294	RWEW7LN37GUR3	0679722610	645212410	Red Harvest	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Tough, Bleak and Brilliant	Hammett's Red Harvest is probably the most devastatingly brutal good novel you'll ever read. It's not like slasher movies -- all blood and gore and no content. It's a book about brutal people, both gangsters and politicians, who will do anything to keep their hands on the power that they've managed to get hold of. The Continental Op, Hamett's anonymous detective, finds that the only way to clean up Personville is to join the fray, and though his conscience bothers him, he fights fire with fire and matches the scummy crooks machiavellian move to machiavellian move. What makes the book tick is precisely the bleak, realistic, nihilism of its main characters, who remind one so much of real politicians and crooks, but without any of the spin-doctor sheen that covers their tracks in the media. Red Harvest is a book I read every couple of years to marvel again at fantastic writing and the no-nonsense view of humanity's common, unadorned, ugliness.	2001-02-17
US	52479294	R2DKSJC6O7Z0B4	0064400557	121564266	Charlotte's Web (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Fantastic Writing	I recently bought Charlotte's Web because I'm planning to write a children's book and wanted to get an idea of what sort of language would be acceptable at this level. Well, all I can say is that the writing is pure, brisk, fast-moving and beautiful, and that it carries the story of Wilbur, Fern and Charlotte with the effortless brilliance that simply cannot be taught. The innocence of the story, with its bucolic farm setting and old-time values, is a marvelous vehicle for a story that deals with friendship, death, loss, and change in a manner more interesting than in many of the adult books that purport to take them as their object. I was not only touched and gratified by the writing, but also by the story itself, which was honest and brave in presenting the things that are the stuff of life, but without any of the preaching, lecturing or patronizing PC nonsense that so horribly afflicts children's writing today. White's book is for people who want their children to read chldren's literature, not some throw-away lecture about &quot;tolerance,&quot; and I recommend it without reservation. I'm amazed that I never read it as a child, but it was one of the best reads I've had in some time, even as I approach 40.	2001-02-17
US	52479294	R1SXAP09IHIP7U	0674299302	425221134	Fiction in the Age of Photography: The Legacy of British Realism	Books	2	10	36	N	N	Academic Buddy System At Its Best	&quot;Here is intellectual leadership at its best&quot; gushes Rey Chow, a cronie of Nancy Armstrong's, in her intemperate review of Armstrong's minor monograph on photography and realism. Chow seems to suggest that this is not just another tenure-grabbing piece of academic fluff, but, rather, that Armstrong has altered the world forever: &quot;By foregrounding visuality, she radically reconceptualizes the relationship between realism and the modern, bringing about a paradigm shift with which scholars will have to reckon in the decades to come.&quot; Whoa, Rey! Let's not get carried away paying back Armstrong for her good reviews of your work! Chow's inflated rhetoric leads one to believe that we've entered an entirely new dimension of experience, a new understanding of the world that will leave us all dumbfounded and amazed by the newness of a once puzzling universe. She seems to think that a new revelation has been lowered from Heaven to cast light upon a previously murky world, and the notion that photography has flooded modern consciousness and the modern novel is somehow startling in its implications. &quot;As much a model of critical imagination as it is of scholarly integrity, this book accomplishes what only the rarest of books do: it teaches you how to think.&quot; The ultimate scratching of the academic back: thanks for forming my brain, Nancy. Before reading this book I was ignorant. Now I can think. Cheers. Ah, yes -- by using the now hoary marxist-feminist device of concentrating on the controlling gaze of the viewer (&quot;visuality&quot;), by insisting on the material realm (even if only as &quot;the real&quot;) in contrast to the spiritual realm, by tossing around a few of the usual post-structuralist devices of distancing the object and reconstituting it within a new context, she garners the acolades of her cronies as the Great Remaker of Modern Thought. Wow! This book is, in essence, more a testimony to the nature of contemporary academic politicsand buddy systems than it is to anything else, and all of the praise heaped upon it cannot change the fact that it will have only as much influence as a few professors can wring out of it in their seminars. Good luck, people.	2001-01-28
US	52479294	R1L9RGL39JVWAY	0425173925	13181427	Get Your Share: The Everyday Woman's Guide to Striking it Rich in the StockMarket	Books	1	17	35	N	N	Don't Be Fooled!	Having looked at this book, it seems obvious to me that it is basically a marketing strategy that differentiates it from it's ultimate source: Peter Lynch. Stav has culled from the advice of Lynch and some others a method to investing, combined this with her own story, and then written a book in whcih she suggests that this is some sort of &quot;women's investment strategy,&quot; trying to make female readers think this method is particularly for them. It isn't. It's just investment advice, and second-hand at that. What this book really proves is that you can put the word &quot;Woman&quot; on any book and guarentee yourself a share of the market these days, and that's pretty sad. Read Lynch, instead. Why not go with the orignal?	2001-01-25
US	52479294	R3OGL1S5Z68EG9	0786703806	42511337	Northbridge Rectory	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Oh Please!	I came to Amazon to buy a copy of Northbridge Rectory as a present and was astounded by the childish lack of acumen in the other reviews. Two stars because of &quot;snobbery&quot;!? If that is the level of sophistication Thirkell is facing in her American audience, she'll be out of print quite soon. Thirkell's books, Northbridge included, are comedies of manners. They represent types of people, and that includes snobs, cowards, eccentrics, people of little distincton, people of much distinction. Northbridge uses a biting humor that I, and many others, find extremely funny because it so deeply transgresses all of the Steven Spielberg-like instincts to be agreeable and popular that so plagues American writing today: find out what sells, do it to death, hope to get in on the Oprah Book Club Bonanza, and above all, be agreeable to as many people as possible. Blahh! Thirkell was a fantastic writer who represented a world that was on its way out, as her novels make quite clear, and  she was obviously sorry to see it go. She was not, in the Oprah vein, writing novels meant to make insecure or troubled people &quot;feel good about themselves,&quot; which is death to literature. Thirkell's humor is not just meant to make us laugh, but also a part of a scheme in her works -- to hold up the silliness of the world she inhabits for all to see, and to suggest that we've lost something in the passing of time, rather than gained. That's why they are such wonderful books: they they're funny, they are sharp, they're literary, and they're light, all at once. I agree that not all of her Barsetshire books are of equal value, but none of them ranks below four stars, for heaven's sake!	2001-01-24
US	52479294	R2SMTQ0ESI2DL0	B000023VWY	737795685	The Dragon Murder Case	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Van Dine's Out of Style, But A Great Read, Nonetheless	I imagine that many people avoid these marvelous Philo Vance mysteries because of the snooty tone and the slightly precious self-image of the amateur detective hero. What can I say? I think they're hilarious. Vance approaches each crime as a work of art -- and Van Dine always has him stop to examine a rare art object during the investigation to remind of us this -- in the tradition of Sherlock Holmes, and each novel brings Vance face-to-face with teh herd in a manner contrived to show him at his worst -- or is it his best? Whichever one it is, it's always a gas. This particular Vance novel is not my favorite -- I like the nihilistic insanity of &quot;The Bishop Murder Case&quot; the best -- but it's near the top. Wish they'd come back out in paperback, though, because this beautiful facsimile is a little hard on the bank account.	2001-01-22
US	52479294	R2N1PBXF6XU6IN	0393961478	999940196	Adrienne Rich's Poetry and Prose (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	2	23	90	N	N	Booooooo-ring!	Adrienne Rich has to be the most over-rated poet in history. Her work would be completely forgotten if it was judged as poetry, but because she has been adopted as the ideological idol of PC fanatics everywhere, she has become an untouchable icon of the present. Rich is best compared, intellectually, to the literary drudges of Soviet Russia, who extolled the glories of the people for the Communist Party. The diffrence, obviously, is that Rich is not embraced by the State, but by the buddy system that is academic feminism. This volume, complete with the breathless worship -- oh, sorry, critical scholarly attention -- of the editor, is a very fine presentation of what is, for all practical purposes, the work of a transient figure whose prominence is entirely dependent on the current PC state of the American academic establishment. If you wandered to this book because it claims to be poetry, why not skip it and try someone with some soul adn some real poetic talent?	2001-01-22
US	52479294	RADVLWS27VXX	0316184136	844504752	The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Not What Your Femi-Nazi Profs Say It Is!	I've spoken to any number of people lately who are totally turned off to Emily Dickinson by their feminist professors and vow never to open her again. I tell them that they are making a mistake.  Dickinson appeals to me -- a wicked,unreconstructed, non-feminist, white male -- because she writes passionate, pithy, witty poems that are not restricted by the sort of asphyxiating mediocrity that binds Adrienne Rich et al. Even if Dickinson is imprisoned in a Women Writers course, she should not be confused with the company she thereby keeps. She's a wonderful poet, and like Jane Austen, doesn't need any special pleading to be placed among the greats.	2001-01-20
US	52479294	RD9NOA5QC7DRB	0140065504	673022087	Water Music (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Snide and Clever	Boyle is most definitely a writer for the present -- trendy, snide, clever, precious, and sounding as if he'd just graduated from some foul Master of Fine Arts in Writing program. I kept picking this novel up because of the gasping praise of the reviewers and the fact that I find Mungo Park rather interesting, but I just kept putting it back down after finding, once again, that it was simply not to my taste. Boyle is supposedly very inventive -- I find him rather tedious and predictably contemporary. MFA stuff, approved by the professors of &quot;creative writing,&quot; but ultimately pretty hollow and trendy, like any other fashion statement. For those who like their writing with the MFA seal of approval.	2001-01-20
US	52479294	R2OI1OBK5QHPGC	0140299939	569415339	World's End (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Good Read For the Historically Minded	This is the only book of Boyle's that I can abide. Most of them if find tediously contemporary, very trendy and predictable. Imagine my surprise when I discovered that this book was an intelligent, interesting treatment of historical awareness in a particular locality -- though not at all as boring as that description sounds. Boyle flips back and forth from the early settlers of the Hudson Valley to teh antics of its present residents in a manner that should fascinate anyone who is aware of the differences in American society then and now, and the relationship between teh two in the minds of people today. Worth a look, by all means.	2001-01-20
US	52479294	R3SE2FHQ150KJD	0879056886	917410872	Blues Legends	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nice History, Great Photos	This splendid little book is a very nice and compact history of blues, which would make a nice intro for someone not too familiar with the music, but it's the fantastic photos by Rae Flerlage that really set it apart from the competition. Flerlage is a fantistic photographer who was a fixture on the South and West Side club scenes for a long time, and his photos capture something of the essence of the great performances that made the blues from the 20s to the 50s so exciting. Lots of cigarette smoke and sweat in these pictures -- these clubs must have rocked!	2001-01-20
US	52479294	R1KV910CSZGKIV	0446604801	440825646	Jack & Jill (Alex Cross)	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Cartoonish and Shallow	I read this book when I was stranded at a friend's house with nothing to read and was astounded to learn that the author of this series is regarded as a good writer. I suppose if you like shallow, cliche-ridden characters, a villain who is about as complex as Beetle Bailey, and a plot that simply takes the place of any real content in the novel, then this seems like a hell of a lot of fun. If you want more, then I suggest that you skip Jack and Jill completely. It's too irritating even to be a relaxing bit of fluff.	2001-01-16
