US	52470507	R2DG3LAB3L11ZQ	1859842933	214054297	Redemption Song: Muhammad Ali and the Spirit of the Sixties	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Better than the Movie	I'm not a boxing fan, but after seeing the recent &quot;Ali&quot; movie, I was inspired to take Mike Marqusee's &quot;Redemption Song&quot; off my bookshelf and read it. I got the book because I heard Marqusee last year in a radio interview about Ali and the Black Power movement of the sixties and I was very interested in the culture and politics that both shaped Ali and was influenced by him. <br />I found &quot;Redemption Song&quot; a powerful and well written book that gives so much more depth than the new movie. The depth of Marqusee's research and analysis made me realize that the Ali movie would have needed to be a trilogy in order to do justice the champ's life.  Ali's defiance of racist draft policies could have been an entire movie in and of itself. While &quot;Ali&quot; movie focuses on Ali's defiance, Marqusee's book provides the context for Ali's anti-war stance. His description and analysis makes the movie's focus a mere footnote to this part of Ali's history. When Ali argued, &quot;Man, I ain't got not quarrel with them Vietcong,&quot; he was taking a religious and political stance on a personal, cultural/racial, and class level.  He was not only echoing the developing anti-war movement, but giving voice to it, even though he never sought to be a leader within the movement.  He was in sync with civil rights activists like John Lewis who complained, &quot;I don't see how President Johnson can send troops to Vietnam...to the Congo...to Africa and can't send troops to Selma, Alabama,&quot; [where the civil rights of Black people were systemically and violently denied civil rights on a daily basis.] He was in line with Martin L. King who boldly declared and preached that the war &quot;morally and politically unjust.&quot;  His refusal to participate in the bombing of thousands of innocent children and women in Vietnam and Cambodia was a part of many anti-war demonstrations in which Stokely Carmicheal described Selective Services as &quot;white people sending black people to make war on yellow people in order to defend land they stole from red people.&quot;<br />Marqusee reminds us most in his book that boxing in this country was linked to issues of race and power representation. Thus, Black boxers and other sports figures like Jackie Robinson were measured, promoted, and criticized by how patriotic they were to the White power structure in this country. They were expected to be like Joe Louis who stood &quot;as a role model--for white America, for the black middle class and for much of the left--by enlisting for military service in World War II,&quot; or an anti-communist like Robinson.  But Ali becomes a bug in the system.  Guided by Black nationalist ideology of the Nation of Islam and Malcolm X specifically, Ali rewrote the script for how Black sports figures were to behave. He proclaimed, &quot;I'm free to be what I want.&quot; But as Marqusee points and shows, &quot;he did not invent himself out nothing. In his search for personal freedom he was propelled and guided  by a wide array of interacting social forces.&quot;  This search and influence is the heart of Marqussee's book. <br />I would imagine there's much that Marqusee leaves out his book. And at times he seems too apologetic about Ali's break with Malcolm X, his relationship with the conservative tide of the Nation of Islam, and the inherent contradictions between his religious convictions and his views about marriage. Marqusee could have also provided specific references for his research. His bibliography is simply not enough.<br />Despite these criticism, &quot;Redemption Song&quot; is a much needed work to offset efforts to depoliticize Ali's past. Read it before or after you see the movie.	2002-01-01
US	52470507	R2AOXMN6UD7BQ5	046501755X	488299736	Holler If You Hear Me: Searching For Tupac Shakur	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Listen and Learn	In \\"Holler If You Hear Me,\\" Micheal Dyson developes a critical analysis of legend rapper, Tupac Shakur. Dyson is well known as an intellectual scholar of hip-hop culture. \\"Holler\\" is not a formal biography of Tupac, but moreso an extended essay that attempts to place the life, music, and contradictions of Tupac in a cultural, political context. He explores Tupac's work and life in context of his relationship with his mother, a former Black Panther Party member, and as a youth growing up in a post-Black Panther Party era. Tupac's experiences living in poverty with a drug addicted mother certaintly sheds serious light on his work and lifestyle.  Dyson helps us understand more clearly Tupac as an artist whose life and work was full of love for Black cultural life, but also as a tortured brotha who, like many men, got drawn into a machismo, sexist world.  In essence, Tupac, writes Dyson, adopted \\"a creed that at once reflected his fractured home life and affirmed his essential aloneness and his combativeness with the universe he inherited, a stance that captured the domestic alienation of millions of other black youth in his song \\"Me Against the World.\\"<br />Personally, I've always had a problem with Tupac's ganster lifestyle and performance. I always felt that because he was looked up to by so many young people that he should have been a better role model for the hip-hop generation. But in reading Dyson's book, I discovered more about Tupac. First off, I didn't realize that he was so well read--that he read widely and continously: authors inlcuding Richard Wright, Gabriel Marquez, Carl Jung, Alice Walker, feminist Susan McClary and Robin Morgan, and George Orwell.  He listened to all types of music, and he reflected deeply about God and spirituality.  These literary and spiritual experiences and quests had a great influence on his own work.<br />Dyson also points out that Tupac's \\"stirring raps made many people see suffering they had never before acknowledged. It helped many desperately unhappy young people reclaim a sense of hope and humanity.\\" Pac was rapping from the bottom (from the oppressed and exploited masses), but he did so from a artists point of view. Thus, if we're disturbed by his contridictions, we have to remember that much of his torment as an artist comes out of a racist, class divide in this country that has essentially marginalized and attacked young people--especially African males. <br />Dyson's book is not the definitive work on Tupac, but he certaintly raises critical questions and analysis that will be useful in present and future studies of this hip-hop icon.	2001-12-28
US	52470507	R26Y2STPXOU62J	093312130X	138114402	Seize the Time: The Story of the Black Panther Party and Huey P. Newton	Books	4	43	49	N	N	A Primary Source	Booby Seale's &quot;Seize the Time,&quot; though not well written, is essentially a primary source of the Black Panther Party--written by the Party's courageous co-founder.  Much of the book focuses on the work and vision of Huey P. Newton. I was very much struck by Seale's unquestioning devotion to Newton.  Having read other books by or about Party members, I realize from reading this classic book that Seale was blind to many of Newton's contradictions.  At the same time, however, Seale seemed devoted equally to the freedom and self-determination of African people. <br />Both of these leaders took the African struggle in America to another level.  They put into practice what the great Malcolm X said about &quot;making it plain&quot; and to defend one's self. As hard as it was, they worked to simplify the struggle rather than intellectualize it. Unfortuneatly, however, they spent more time having to overcome relentess pressures and attacks by Oakland police, the FBI, the racist judicial system, and the entire White racist society.  <br />Seale's book is not a critical analysis of the Party, like for instance Elaine Brown's book &quot;A Taste of Power,&quot; but it does bear witness to one of the most radical organizations ever developed in America.	2001-12-28
US	52470507	R1L4QQRMTTV4YI	0201704897	615059336	Making iMovies	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not bad, but not the best.	(...) If you're interested in shooting and editing fictional stories using iMovie, Smith's book is very useful--even though it's outdated (it covers iMovie1, not 2). What I appreciated about the book is that Smith takes digital editing seriously. He explains, somewhat, the art of it, which is evident in both the book and the attached DVD.<br />This book, however, would be a waste of money for those seeking to shoot home, small business, or community outreach videos. If you're shooting and editing for these reasons, I highly recommend David Pogue's \\"iMovie 2,\\" Rory O'Neill and Eden Muir's \\"Movie Making with iMovie,\\" or Todd Stauffer's iMovie 2 for Dummies\\"--the latter includes a good CD Rom with Quicktime movie examples of the strategies and techniques explained in Stauffer's book. Stauffer also goes into advance video editing techniques not clearly explained in Neill or Smith's book.(...)	2001-12-17
US	52470507	RISGM1DADUTM2	0865714460	97400610	Global Uprising : Confronting the Tyrannies of the 21st Century : Stories from a New Generation of Activists	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Inspiring	In their epilogue to &quot;Global Uprising,&quot; Neva Welton and Linda Wolf point out that in the context of 9/11, &quot;Now, more than ever, we must examine the the consequences or our denial, ignorance and complacency [in dealing with global affairs]. We must strive to better understand world history, religious beliefs, cultural diversity, and the impact of ideologies and policies that oppress and marginalize people. Terror is still terror, no matter what its origin: whether it stems from a sudden, deliberate act or is visited every day upon a people through poverty, starvation, enviromental destruction, economic enslavement, or poltice and military brutality.&quot;<br />&quot;Global Uprising&quot; is just the type of book we need to help us understand our role as global citizens--not global consumers, as Bush and the free market corporate head and stock holders world would have us to be.  What we get in this book are the voices of people--mainly young--who have allowed their consciousness and love for justice and peace to become workers against environmental racism, the Prison Industrial Complex, global sweatshops, the World Trade Organization, corporate media, factory farms, Shell Oil Co. in the Ogoni region of Nigeria, and many other injustices that rarely get heard or written about in the dominate media.<br />These are passionate, ofter personal stories, of people throughout the world who are in solidarity with the children of Iraq who are dying because of U.S. military actions and sanctions, the Indigenous Peoples of Chiapas, who live under constant attack by the government of Mexico, and with U'Wa people of Colombia whose land has been affected by the US oil giant Occidental Petroleum. These and many more groups and issues finally get heard in this book. <br />Each of these stories would make powerful documentaries or movies, for they're about what happens to a people who must suffer under capitalist/imperialist world order that seeks undermine undeverdevloped or weaker regions of the world for economic control and profit.<br />And despite the sometimes hopelessness of the struggle, these stories are inspiring for those of us who realize that we can't simply limit our lives to buying the latest stuff we really don't need, living rich while most of world lives in starvation, or allowing this racist/imperialist government to bomb countries, primarily inhabited by people of color--and killing tens or thousands of innocent people.<br />&quot;Global Uprising&quot; is not a joy to read, but it does serve as a testimony that we can take action against tyranny and oppression and demand a better, more equitable world for all citizens.	2001-12-17
US	52470507	R3KZFHAGVONLB1	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	206	265	N	N	Insightful	This book couldn't come at a better time. I've read other works by Chomsky, but I appreciated the brevity and cutting edge analysis that is needed to help see through the fog of distortions, propaganda, and lack of historical analysis that is used to gain support for what Chomsky calls a terrorist attack on the innocent people of Afghanistan.<br />Though Chomsky repeaditaly states that the 9/11 attack is unjustfied, he rightly argues that if we fail to understand the context of such an attack, then we're doom, like the state of Isreal, to live without any hope of peace and justice. Throughout the various interviews reproduced in this book, he maintains that &quot;we should recognize that in much of the world the U.S. is regarded as a leading terrorist state, and with good reason. We might bear in mind, for example, that in 1986 the U.S. was condemned by the World Court for 'unlawful use of force' (international terrorism) and then vetoed a Security Council resolution calling on all states (meaning the U.S.) to ahdhere to international law.&quot; What the U.S. has done or supported in Vietnam, Granada, Guatemala, Nicaragua, the Sudan, El Salvador, Chile, occupied Palestine, etc. constitute a recent history of political terrorist repression, whereby hundreds of thousands of innocent people, especially women and children, have been killed primarily to protect the political and economic (e.g. oil, coffee) interests of the United States. <br />Chomsky reminds us that the current war is nothing new or partisan. The attack on Afghanistan is/will be 10 times as devistating as Clinton's attack on the Sudan in which the &quot;death toll from the bombing has continued, quietly, to rise...Thus, tens of thousands of people--many of them children--have suffered and died from malaria, tuberculosis, and other treatable diseases...&quot; And this attack as we must remember was done based on the same current erroneous reasons given for the current attack on the people of Afghanistanand Irag--all three in persuit of a despotic leader.<br />Not a supporter of the Islamic fundementalist bin Landen, Chomsky does remind readers of the history of the U.S. in Afghanistan whereby in the 1980s, the U.S. trained and funded networks to committ a &quot;holy war against the Russian occupiers....By 1989, they [the Mujahidin, in which bin Landen was a principle leader] succeeded in their Holy War in Afghanistan. As soon as the U.S. established a permanent military presence in Saudi Arabia, bin Landen and the rest announced that from their point of view, that was comparable to the Russian occupation of Afghanistan and they turned their guns on the Americans, as had already happened in 1983 when the U.S. had military forces in Lebanon. Saudi Arabia is a major enemy of the bin Laden network, just as Egypt is. That's what they want to overthrow, what they call the un-Islamic governements of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, other states of the Middles East, and North Africa. And it continued.&quot;<br />This type of history and analysis provides us with the context for 9/11--one that we simply will not get from watching or reading the dominant media. While many may argue with Chomsky's analysis, he nevertheless provides the necessary rebuttal to what, in my view, is the perfect war for someone like the unelected president of this country.<br />Finally, the only problem I have with this book is that Chomsky or the editor should have provided documentation for the many &quot;reports&quot; refered to in this work. Without identifying specific sources, Chomsky weakens many of his arguments, for we simply don't know where he's getting his information.	2001-12-06
US	52470507	R1HZ6EUOLM4YLF	0679419446	629002730	A Taste of Power - A Black Woman's Story (Black Panthers)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	A Powerful and Tragic Journey	&quot;A Taste of Power&quot; makes me feel both proud and very sorry for the Black Panther Party. Out of the four or five books I've read about the BPP, Brown's account has been the most revealing.  I didn't realize that the Party had been so well funded, that their Survival Programs had gone beyond breakfast programs (to medical care, a school, etc.), that Brown and Bobby Seale had ran for public office, that Huey P. Newton had egotistically ran the Party for both the people and his own self interests, that Party members were physically disciplined for breaking Party rules, and that Newton had expelled Party co-founder Bobby Seale from the organization. I understand that Newton's actions were influenced by the FBI's COINTELPRO program that worked to undermine and shut down progressive Black organizations, but it's interesting that Brown doesn't talk much about the tactics of COINTELPRO. She stuck with the more personal side of leading Party members, albeit she does not overlook the federal-sponsored and police brutality brought onto the Black community and the Party.<br />I imagine that Brown's account of the Party's history carries its own subjectivity, but it's certainly important that she wrote about what was largely a very painful journey, despite how much good the Party was doing in Black communities throughout the country. Brown worked hard as a leading editor the BPP newspaper, as a lover and servant of Newton, as a candidate for public office in Oakland, and as a woman to determine to keep the Party running despite the onslaught of internal and external problems and obstacles.<br />Finally, it's very important that this book is written from a woman's perspective--a perspective that is sorely lacking in the accounts of Black Power era. Far too much machismo mentality and behavior served to undermine and hold the movement back. For as long as women were be exploited by so-called male revolutionaries, the struggle for revolution would always be bankrupted because the liberation of women was not on the agenda. <br />After reading Brown's book, it will be very interesting to see what Katheleen Cleaver, another prominent BPP female will have to say in her memoir about the history of the Party and Brown's leadership of it.	2001-11-25
US	52470507	R35K60U3Q3AG70	0764507486	812476368	iMovie 2 For Dummies?	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Includes a good CD demo	I have two other iMovie2 books, but I put out the money for this one because not only does it contains quite a few other techniques not found in other books, but because the attached CD comes only with sample movie clips of camera and editing techniques discussed in the book. It also includes among other things shareware and demo software like Adobe After Effects, sound effect utilities, graphic converter, MoviEffects to use with QT movies.<br />I wouldn't say this is the best iMovie2 book, but the author does a good job outlining, laying out, and explaining editing procedures and techniques. It's not that iMovie2 is a difficult program to learn or use, but it's just that books like these provide insightful strategies that enable you to get more out of the program. I certaintly recommend this book for first time and intermediate users of iMovie2.	2001-11-22
US	52470507	R2T0R9POMAPFN1	0766845850	783677555	Start Here: Movie-Making with iMovie 2	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Best iMovie Book	I just got this book and it's the best of all the iMovie books I've used/read. Like &quot;iMovies2 For Dummies,&quot; this book includes a very good DVD that includes visual/iMovie examples of the techniques and strategies that it explains in the book.  For me, this the DVD is the selling point of the book--even though it is somewhat expensive.<br />I've always felt that a book  talking about video/film production must have an accompanying CD or DVD. It's not just about visual learning, but moreso about providing  effective examples of what is being explained about visual techniques. I mean...it only makes sense to talk about video technigues by using actual video examples. It really doesn't make sense to keep using a traditional form of communication (writing) to talk about an emerging and developing form of communication (digital video).<br />Besides the DVD, I also appreciate how the writers of this book provide strategies for different types of video productions--instructional video, music video, documentary video, home video, and short fictional movies. It's the only book I know of that talks about these types of video productions using iMovie.  Thus this book (along with another one titled &quot;The Little Digital Video Book, by Micheal Rubin) to me is for  the serious/intermediate digital camera and iMovie users. <br />Finally, I would just like recommend another new book for those like me who want to one day move beyond iMovie to something more professional: Micheal Wohl's &quot;Editing Technqiues with Final Cut Pro&quot; (Peachpit Press) is a very good book on video editing--no matter what editing software you're using. All three of these books should be on your library reference shelf.	2001-11-19
US	52470507	R1EVSMQ3OP2IOQ	0201758482	737115609	The Little Digital Video Book	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Pretty good introduction	&quot;The Little Digital Video Book&quot; is very readable and to the point. I read it in two days and got some pretty good ideas for improving my home videos. This book will be most useful to readers who are familiar with iMovie editing software, for the author makes reference to that very accessiable editing software throughout his book.<br />I most liked the chapters on shooting and editing video. He provides tips on various types of shots: e.g. the action-reaction shot, shooting for cut-ins, establishment shots, and over-the-shoulder shots. In the area of editing, he talks about, among other techniques, setting music to shots, voice over narration, cut-ins, dissolves and fades. He provides some still photos to help explain these techniques. If I had written this book, however, I would have listed out many of these techniques for even easier reference.<br />Now the problem I have with this book is that like other home movie guides, it lacks a multimedia CD rom or website supplement. I think it's ironic to develop a guide about video production using mere words and black-and-white photo illustrations. In the era of multimedia presentations, guides such as this should come with a CD or with a reference to a good website that contains clips of the techniques that are explained in the book. For someone very new to digital video shooting and editing, mere written descriptions may not be enough. Also, I would have liked him to provide a list of references to other books and resources for those who want to get to the advance stage of home movie and other types of video production.<br />With that said, though I only give this book 3 stars, I would encourage you to buy it if you're looking for some ideas for home video production. Other home movie guides spend way too much time focusing on buying video cameras and editing equipment. What is needed are books that spend more time providing tips, ideas, and techniques for shooting and editing digital video. Ruben's book makes a good effort to this.  Not only can you tell that he's actually produced home videos, but that he also brings his professional experience as a filmmaking consultant to this book. I look forward to him writing more advance books that focus more on shooting and editing with a digital camera.	2001-11-14
US	52470507	R327GKCU33PI4R	0440508495	487622371	Going to the Movies: A Personal Journey Through Four Decades of Modern Film	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good teacher	I started reading this book yesterday and found that the clarity of the writing and the insight and experiences the author brings to understanding movies have kept from hardly putting this book down. Field's book is useful for both developing screenwriters and avid movie watchers. <br />Because movies are really the popular literature of the 21st century (despite the number of bad flicks produced every year), it's important that we gain a better appreciation of how the movies tell stories and how they affect us. Field in his own journey to understand movies provides some very good insight. <br />By chapter 12 of his journey he shows his talent as a teacher, script reader and writer, and a lover of movies. In this chapter he breaks down the classic film &quot;Chinatown,&quot; showing how what he calls Plot Points are used to set up and move dramatic parts of a movie along. By understanding the form and structure of movies, we can gain a better understanding of a film's narrative and also appreciate when a screen writer and director have produced a well crafted movie.<br />Using Field's insight, we as movie goers get beyond it was a great movie because its action, star appeal, or drama. We begin to critically reflect on how the actions, words, and images tell the story in a film. We can appreciate what the writer and director do to the set up the context for the story and take us through the middle (what Field calls the confrontation) and the end (the resolution) of a film.<br />(The rest of the book goes how to examine contemporary films like Pulp Fiction, explaining how Tarantino creates such memorable characters.)<br />Now  when I happen to see video or DVD more than once, I can apply what I'm learning from Field to better appreciate the art of a film. I think  I'll think also read his other popular book, Four Screenplays, for futher insight.	2001-11-04
US	52470507	R1HGGLWUC114C7	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good read for students	Much has already been written about this book, but I just want to add how interested my high school students were  when I read aloud parts of it in class (one of them actually went out and bought their own copy.) Of course they were interested because they could relate to the topic of fast food, but at the same time this book provided a critical analysis of an industy that most of my students take for granted as being as American as apple pie. I found that reading them parts of this book helped me to further show how investigating a topic can often lead to better critical analysis and insight than what they get from televised news and commercials, the latter of which I wish Schlosser had explored in his work--how advertising helps to make fastfood so accetable in this culture.<br />I look forward to this work coming out in paperback so that it might be puchased for classroom libraries.	2001-11-04
US	52470507	R1JJBTKVUW3X4Q	0395759242	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Engrossing	To use the old cliche: when I read this book I could barely put it down. At times I was angry and other times bewillered about how the genocide of a people could take place and then be systemically denied for so many years. Throughout my reading about Africa, I never knew about the Belgium atrocities under Leopold's rule until I read this book. It seems like this part of history has been kept well hidden. Perhaps because it personifies the history of European rule and exploitation of Africa for over four hundred years.<br />Hoschcild's narrative is both passionate, engrossing, and vivid. He doesn't seek to make apologies for Leopold's atrocities. He doesn't understate the killing of over 5 million Congolese Africans for the profit and wealth of a King and his estate.<br />At the same time, he reveals the couregous work that was done by activists like the American born African Reverend William H. Sheppard whose writing documenting the brutality of the Congo state made him the object of a lawsuit and trail because he stood up against the colonial empire.<br />&quot;King Leopold's Ghost&quot; will be informative to both those knowledgable of European domination of Africa, and to those who are just beginning to do the research. This book will be a classic in African history.	2001-11-01
US	52470507	R32I6KF014STPR	0385493673	72742031	Last Man Standing: The Tragedy and Triumph of Geronimo Pratt	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Where's the Movie?	I'm almost finished with this book, and as I read it, it constantly serves to remind me of just how racist the criminal (in)justice system is in this country. Though to me Olson's writing about the court proceedings were a little dry, this book is helping me to understand the extent the FBI and the CIA took to undermine the Black Panther Party and other Black organizations. It almost seems the popularity of the Black Panther Party was largely based on their constant battle with the police and the criminal (in)justice system, rather than with the struggle for Black liberation and democracy.<br />I didn't know the specifics of Geronimo's imprisonment, but I when I went to hear him speak months after being released, I could tell he was/is a committed, disciplined, and courageous brother whose leadership could have been very important to the development of BPP, if he hadn't spent so much time in prison.<br />This book is an important contribution to other books by or about BPP members. The rise and fall of this organization is finally being examined, and this is important because when we study what happened to Pratt and the BPP, we can understand why it is so difficult to bring about political, economic, and social freedom and true democracy in this country. Not only must freedom fighters fight the contributions within their own ranks, they/we also have to face a bunch of powerful people who will do anything they have to do to hold on to their power. <br />I'm not sure what Pratt is doing now, but I can imagine that he has not given up hope for a better tomorrow.	2001-10-30
US	52470507	R2J0T0CWB23Y9B	0299153401	683155967	Dead Wrong: A Death Row Lawyer Speaks Out Against Capital Punishment	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Crime Against Humanity	For Mello, capital punishment is &quot;government-sponsored homocide.&quot; He sees the system as being an &quot;unambiguous disgrace to civilized humanity; besides being classist and indecent, it is racist.&quot;  I couldn't agree more. And that's why I found this book so compelling to read. Mello places his first-hand analysis of &quot;government-sponsored homocide&quot; in a legal, cultural, philosophical, and ethical context. Though our common sense may say that capital punishment is the best, most justifiable consequence for cold hearted murder, we must use our uncommon sense to see the larger picture.<br />Government-sponsored homocide is not like a crime of murder--even though both seek retribution, but it's a systemic form of murder in which death is seen as a solution to problems in our society and world. As long as we hold to this solution, we'll never be able to understand man's inhumanity to man. We'll simply take the &quot;common sense&quot; route to soloving complex problems with simplistic answers. <br />Many readers will say that Mello is too biased in his analysis. But with well over 3,000 men and women in this country facing a death sentence (nearly 400 in Florida alone), and with a president who resided over 100 death sentences in Texas, we have to think much more critically about what type of country and culture we're livng in and allowing to develop.<br />Reading Mello helps us think about this &quot;anathema to civilization.&quot; He does it with passion, insight, and years of committed work. Even though he has stepped down from being a capital public defender, I think his book will be useful to generations to come who can join others to take on anti-death work.	2001-10-30
US	52470507	R1O5ZZ8S4EHXXB	091005570X	959591232	Beyond Popcorn: A Critic's Guide to Looking at Film	Books	3	13	15	N	N	He's a critic, not a teacher.	I've been doing a lot of reading about film in the last year and I have to say that Glatzer's guide was not as helpful as the other books I've read. When I compare Glatzer's guide to Jim Piper's guide, &quot;Get the Picture?: The Movie Lover's Guide to Watching to Films,&quot; I fnd that while Glatzer may be a good movie critic, he, unlike Piper, is not a very good teacher of the subject.<br />Much of Glatzer reads like moive review of films instead of a guide for reading films critically. His first few chapters provide some basic insight on the differences between movies and theatre productions and the role of the camera in flims, but the rest of book is not as helpful as it could be. <br />The chapter on laughter in film, for example, is not useful. He tries to explain humor by focusing on the work of Buster Keaton, but many of us contemporary film goers might not find Keaton all that funny. The same goes for his chapters on musicals, foriegn films, and movie credits--each of them are not very helpful for understanding contemporary films. <br />Perhaps it's his last chapters that save this book. Glatzer provides a list of &quot;must see films&quot; and a list of guide questions you should ask yourself about a movie. I wish Glatzer had used those questions to develop his guide.<br />Finally, I was also disappointed that neither Glatzer or Piper provide a multicultural examination of films. There are so many films by directors of color that don't get examined in either of the guides. The contributions of Spike Lee, Wayne Wang, Charles Burnett, John Singleton, Melvin Van Peeples, Julie Dash, and Camille Billops (documentary film maker), should have been include in their guide.<br />I guess if you're coming from more of classical film tradition, Glatzer guide might be helpful, but if you're looking for guide to more contemporary, as well as classic and foreign films, check out Piper's book.	2001-10-28
US	52470507	R237VAFD0IO4SB	1581150814	463361687	Get the Picture?: The Movie Lover's Guide to Watching Films	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Getting beyond, &quot;The movie was good.&quot;	If you're looking for very readable guide that will help you gain better insight about movies, you can do no better than Jim Piper's Get the Picture? Jim is a watcher, producer, and teacher of movies. In his guide outlines what to look for in movies: cinematic aspects--various shots, frames, angles, lighting, dialog, music, art space; and literary (story) aspects--plot, point of view, characterization, setting, tone, and meaning. He covers these aspects of film by providing over an hundred references to early, comtemporary, modern, foriegn and independant movies.  His writing is clear, sometimes personal, and well organized. I like how he included exercises using suggested movies you rent from the video stores. <br />This book will be useful for those who may want to write movie reviews, teach about movies, old movie discussion groups, or even producer/directors of movies. It's also just a good book for lovers of movies in general. My only suggestion for a second edition is that he add a list of other books for those who want to delve deeper into the study of film. He could also focus more on ethnic films, particularly ones that don't get the attention they deserve in mainstream in media.	2001-10-21
US	52470507	RTMPC27WF7G2Y	0805050272	654416739	killing rage: Ending Racism (Owl Book)	Books	5	19	26	N	N	A passionate call for &quot;race talk&quot; and Black consciousness	I'm sort of a bell hooks fan. I've always liked her keen intelligence, lucid writing, and her ability to name oppressive forces that impact us all.<br />Many people will not like hooks because she doesn't write from an activist experience. She's primarily a cultural critic, providing insight and analysis rather than strategy and tactics. Her  lack of political activism is indeed problematic, but as an activist teacher, I turn to hooks for inspiration and vision for how to engage my students and other folks in the educational community in visions of radical change.<br />In &quot;Killing Rage,&quot; hooks comes on very strong in naming racism as a White, patriarcial, capitalist enterprise. In providing this analysis, hooks is examining instutions of both covert and institutionalized racism, the latter of which is harder to name and explain. <br />In this work, bell argues that the ending of racism must come through  a &quot;collecitve black rage.&quot; which means that &quot;Progressive black activists must show how we take that rage and move it beyond fruitless scapegoating of any group, linking it instead to a passion for freedom and justice that illuminates, heals, and makes redemptive struggle possible.&quot; In other words, bell is spreaking of what took place in the Black power movement in which collective black rage rose up against racist aparthied in America. But she's not advocating that we build on the Black Power struggles of the sixities. Collective Black rage must include solidarity with Black feminist struggle and solidarity with class struggle along all racial lines.  <br />While hooks does not seek to exclude White allies in the struggle to end racism, &quot;Killing Rage&quot; seems largely targeted to African people. She's calling for African people redefine Black identity, &quot;one that is not sexist, homophobic, patriarchal, or supportive of capitalism.&quot; <br />Lastly, I want to point out how hooks argues that this struggle to end racism must be tied an edcuational agenda. She writes: &quot;Until all black people address the educational crisis in black life, we cannot hope to attain collective self-detremination. As long as progressive radical black folks ignore secondary edcuation and fail to take the initiative to call for and demand progressive anti-racist, anti-sexist education for black children, and all children, our communities will be deluged by folks who see bourgeois partirarchal pedagogy as the only hope.&quot;  For me, this says it all. I strongly encourage freedom-loving people to read this book.	2001-10-19
US	52470507	R1P1GSFJ5ZR2P0	0942961277	248342844	Rethinking Our Classrooms: Teaching For Equity and Justice - Volume 2	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Recommened for social justice teaching	[....]I highly recommend this book for teachers who seek to raise issues of cultural awareness, racism, sexism, poverty and injustice in their classroom<br />RS articles are written for teachers and most of them are written by practicing teachers, not university professors. The popularity of the journal and book is that the editorial staff works hard to push its writers to weave in the voices of their students in their writing. You hear writers thinking through their teaching and inviting readers to take young people seriously.<br />The journal and the book take on hard issues like standardized testing, school descrimination, vouchers, multicultural inclusions, globalism, the civil rights movement, assessment, colonialism, homelessness, and gay/lesbian rights. These issues are addressed through  varied academic disciplines whereby reading, writing, math, group work, technology, film, activisim, and lots of student reflection are used to explore these issues. So students not only develop an understand the issues, they also develop academic skills.<br />Many teacher education programs in this country have find RS and the book very useful for preparing perspective teachers to meet the needs of growing multicultural, economically diverse communities of students who so much want what they are being taught to be relevant and useful in their lives.<br />Finally, the book is loaded with curriculum ideas, lesson plans, poetry, varied resources useful for mostly social science, history and humanities courses.<br />If you're serious about social justice teaching, you won't be disappointed in this book.	2001-10-17
US	52470507	R1OZ18S74YN8BE	1556520743	913561090	Assata: An Autobiography	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Classic Work of Black Identity	Not nearly enough attention is being given to Assata's autobiography. Like the &quot;Autobiography of Malcolm X&quot;, this is a powerfully written book about how an African activist person develops a cultural identity, whereby she pulls off the shackles of internalized racist views she is taught to have of herself and others to become someone who understands her cultural identity and it what it means to love one's self and her people.<br />This book should be taught to all African students in this country. It not only addresses important themes/issues about White supremacy and police brutality, but also more importantly how culture is a weapon against injustice.<br />We're lucky that Assata was able to escape the prison of America, for now we have her narrative as a source of inspiration and insight into what it means to develop a sense of self and to side with justice rather injustice.	2001-10-17
US	52470507	R2TK5OIDEZCX9V	0942961250	588585482	Reading, Writing, and Rising Up: Teaching About Social Justice and the Power of the Written Word	Books	5	19	23	N	N	A loving, caring teacher for social justice	I'm so glad Ms. Christensen has collected many of her articles from the popular social justice journal, Rethinking Schools. I've known Linda for several years and I've find her to be a teacher who goes the extra mile to bring relevant, culturally conscious teaching to her classroom.   She strives to use writing, poetry, reading, literature, activism, and reflective thinking as tools for her students to empower their own lives, their community, and the world at large.<br />Teachers seeking to bring social justice and cultural awareness to their classroom can do no better than having Linda's book as part of their reference. Her writing is both personal, reflective, and seriously enganging. She shows how to use varied writing, reading, and group activities that encourage students to do their best work. In fact, social justice teaching and quality work go hand and hand in Linda's teaching and writing.<br />Some of my favorite articles include &quot;Where I'm From: Inviting Students' Lives Into the Classroom,&quot; &quot;Unlearning the Myths that Bind Us: Critiquing Cartoons and Society,&quot; &quot;Essay With An Attitude,&quot; and &quot;Teaching Stanard English: Whose Standard?&quot;  All the articles in her book call for students be the center of teaching. Her approach is to pull on the experiences and thoughts of her students. She uses the backround of her students to help them think about issues of race, class, gender, injustice, and justice. <br />This book will be useful for teacher education programs, staff developers, and new and experienced teachers seeking fresh ideas, lessons, and critical approaches to their teaching.<br />Even if you as a teacher can't apply many of the ideas that Linda writes about, reading her book will be a good read for how to be a good teacher.	2001-10-16
US	52470507	R5CC44HF5I0CV	0844256943	406393537	Understanding the Film: An Introduction to Film Appreciation (Theatre)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Very useful	When I prepared to introduce film appreciation to my 9th graders, I found this book a good teacher resource. It not only gives a comprehensive overview of all aspects of the film industry (history, production and editing techniques, profiles of actors, directors, producers, film reviews and studies, list of good films, etc), but also provides compellings reasons for why film should be studied in the classroom. Movies are indeed the novel of 21st century, and this book is helpful for understanding why.	2001-10-15
US	52470507	R3DEB3WVJ4JP0J	0742501299	355618900	Chomsky on Mis-Education (Critical Perspectives Series: A Book Series Dedicated to Paulo Freire)	Books	2	16	23	N	N	Misleading title	Chomsky and Macedo should have known better: the title of their book is misleading. It should of been titled &quot;Chomsky on Mis-Political Education.&quot;  I don't have a problem with Chomsky's political analysis, but I was expecting him to talk more about the public and private school system in this country. He only does this in the first chapter, and then rest of this short book focuses on what Chomsky knows best: domestic and international politics.  A better book on this subject is &quot;Educating the 'Right' Way: Markets, Standards, God, and Inequality,&quot; by Micheal W. Apple.	2001-10-12
US	52470507	R3CPS31Q8Q7FW1	0679767088	926994577	No Disrespect	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Strongly recommend	I couldn't put this book down when I read it. Sista is cut throat and straight to the point. Like the most dedicated rapper, she speaks her mind and she's not very concerned about offending those who might disagree with her. <br />Though I don't share her views about homosexuality, I think this book, like Assata Shakur's &quot;Assta&quot; is very important work about cultural identity. I could relate strongly to Souljah's coming into a sense of her African self.  We shared the same experiences of going to college and reading about African history, by Black authors. This experience helps to shape one's cultural identity and sense of African pride.<br />I'm sure many people will find Souljah a little egotistical, but I'm also sure she was and remains a powerful roal model for many young people.<br />I strongly recommend this work for high school and college classrooms.	2001-10-12
US	52470507	R23O5KD90CQIDR	0596001045	596925180	iMovie 2: The Missing Manual	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book with depth	This IMovie2 book goes into more depth than others. It not only provides the how-to of iMovie production, but it also goes into some of the theoritical points of digital editing. I also liked the references to related websites. This is not a Dummies type of book. It requires a little more reading, so it would make a great companion volume to a Dummies iMovie2.	2001-10-12
US	52470507	RVLY9NWBU0GXX	0897891562	317438011	Teachers as Intellectuals: Toward a Critical Pedagogy of Learning (Critical Studies in Education Series)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Wish it were read more widely	I read this book when I first read this book about five years after I started teaching. By then I was able to see just what Giroux is getting at in this book: teachers in this country are mainly trained to be technicians about their subjects rather than intellectuals. In other words, most teachers--and I base this on observations of my colleagues--are so focused on the academic content they teach that they have so little awareness of other academic disciplines and the larger world in which they teach. They see teaching as a tool for helping students get certified, not as a tool for improving the world.<br />Giroux argues that the role of teachers and adminsitrators is  to become &quot;transformative intellectuals who develop counterhegemonic pedagogies that not onoly empower students by giving them the knowledge and social skills they will need to be able to function in the larger society as critical agents, but also educate them for transformative action. That means means educating them to take risks, to struggle for institutional change, and to fight both *against* oppression and *for* democracy outside of schools in other oppositional poublic spheres and the wider social arena.&quot;<br />Thus, Giroux situates teaching in a true democratic process, in which the classroom is one of the few public institutions in which an exchange of ideas and utopian visions can take place. But for this to happen, teachers will have link their knowledge of the content they teach with other academic and social contents. In other words, an English teacher should work to be aware of politics, history, science, art, and other disciplines, rather than just focusing on the teaching of novels and the discipline of writing.<br />The only problem with this book is that the writing is dense, so it's sadly not reaching the audience who should be reading it. Cultural critic bell hooks does a little better job with the same subject in her book &quot;Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom.&quot; She use personal anchedotes and a little more accessible language to argue the nature of teaching.	2001-10-12
US	52470507	R24ZGY6N6WM97M	038548027X	185212954	Laughing in the Dark: From Colored Girl to Woman of Color--A Journey From Prison to Power	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Glad she wrote it	&quot;Laughing in the Dark&quot; is the Black female side of Nathan McCall's &quot;Makes Me Wanna Holler.&quot;  Both works share the stories of young African people growing up with harsh realities and obstalces. Both books are about &quot;how I overcame,&quot; and what it takes to endure the hardships of life.<br />Ms. Gaines's book though is rare, for we don't have nearly enough coming-of-age books by African women. The focus is mainly on the plight of African men.<br />Though &quot;Laughing in the Dark&quot; is somewhat depressing, it serves to remind us of those Black women who are not &quot;waiting to exhale&quot; and can't  get their groove on because they don't have the privileges to do so. They must find strength in themselves where there might not be very much strength.<br />I hope more books like Gaines will be written. I'm sure there are many more sistahs out there with similiar stories to tell.	2001-10-12
US	52470507	R3APWC9FTHED8W	155652384X	886417987	This Side of Glory: The Autobiography of David Hilliard and the Story of the Black Panther Party	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An inspiring story.	This is I think is first book I ever read by a Black Panther Party member. Most certaintly, the BPP was extremely controversial and weighted down with informants, provocateurs, and sell-outs. But Hillard wasn't one of them. He seems to give an honest account of his involvement in the Party. His story will give you great respect for a group of brothers and sisters who dared to take a stand against White supremacy, police brutality, and other forms of injustices. His is an inspiring story.	2001-10-11
US	52470507	R3GI281AIU8WSP	0374527326	515834350	The Male Body: A New Look at Men in Public and in Private	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Critical and compassionate.	This book is the male version of Jean Kilbourne's &quot;Can't Buy My Love.&quot; Both look at media representions of gender and how they perpetuate stereotypical myths about males, females, and homosexuals. They also show how advertising and other image makers use the body to exploit consumer desires and insecurities about their own body. Thus, in Bordo's words, what we see in the twentieth century &quot;is the recognition that when we look at bodies (including our own in the mirror), we don't just see biological nature at work, but values and ideals, differences and similarities that *culture* has 'written,' so to speak, on those bodies.&quot;  <br />What is most compelling about Bordo's work is that she extends her analysis beyond the media and extends it to literature, history, and various institutions that influence our ideas about the male body. She shows overall how myths about the male use sexist images that have been used against women for years.  She does this using very lucid, insightful, and humorous writing.	2001-10-11
US	52470507	R26O08UEXHQT7C	0863161960	195064577	Black Panthers for Beginners	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good outline	I'm currently reading other books on the Panthers, and I can say that Boyd's Black Panthers for Beginners is a pretty good introduction to the activist group. He seems to outline the history of the Party and the reasons for its popular appeal.<br />The book would be a very good gift/read for young students; however, I hope this book will lead readers to read primary sources and more extended works about the Panthers. For example, one should definitely follow up Boyd's &quot;Beginners&quot; with a reading of Huey P. Newton's memoir &quot;Revolutionary Suicide&quot; and other works by Panther members.<br />The only problem I had with this book is that the author didn't include enough about the &quot;survival&quot; programs of the Party which included the community schools and breakfast programs. Understandably it was important for Boyd to focus on Party's constant run in with the racist police force, but when you finish the book that  part of the Party becomes the lasting impression you get of the Party.  It almost seems like that history of the Party was little more than a history of police raids, informants, murder raps, court appearances, acquittals, and violence. While this reality existed, it's important that we understand the vision of the Party.<br />Lastly, I would hope this work inspires a definitive biography of the Black Panther Party. It needs to be written by someone who understands the vision of the Party but at the same time will work to describe the problems that ultimately bring the Party down.	2001-10-11
US	52470507	R1XYJWSH6OTSFD	0395791251	720852762	We Won't Go Back: Making the Case for Affirmative Action	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Very enlightening!	I really can't understand why this book has come out in paperback edition, so that more people might read it. I read it when it first came out and made me do a lot of thinking not just about affirmative action, but more about just how does any society go about providing ways to bring about real opportunities for various groups of people to access to good education and employment in the midst of adverse social, economic, and political conditions. <br />The author's chapter &quot;On Meritocracy&quot; was especially insightful. It talks about the need for a &quot;community-based&quot; definition of qualified, rather than an elitist-based definition. This means that when we talk about a community-based definition, we're not looking at just a person's educational credentials, but her ability to contribute to the community in which she will be working.  Does her background or experience with that community mean more than her scores on educational tests or her access to priviledged edcuation. <br />In this regard, the authors write that, &quot;Historically, the demand for affirmative action came from communities with unmet needs. Ghettos, left without basic services because of white flight, needed doctors, lawyers, merchants, and teachers who were unafraid to serve there. Ethnic communities found that, without community-based scholars, their history, their culture was ignored or misinterpreted by outsiders...&quot; Without affirmative action, what we get are people who qualified based on certain instutional credentials, but they lack real talent or history with the communities they serve.<br />It's really too bad that affirmative action debate has subsided, for it really helps us to grapple with how we build an equitable society where people are not held back because of their lack of previlege or because their racial, economic, or social background.	2001-10-10
US	52470507	R2MEWY1L99P1GN	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A novel about community love	I really enjoyed this book and have recommended it to many of my students. What's most important about Cleage's story is that she writes about Black community love--the need for coming together for our salvation.  This book is wonderful novel to read along side bell hooks's &quot;Salvation: Black People and Love.&quot; Both deal with a subject that is all to often overlooked when talking about is needed in the Black community today.  I look forward to reading other works by Cleage.	2001-10-10
US	52470507	R1QPJMFGSWTUVC	0415911680	424907015	June Jordan's Poetry for the People: A Revolutionary Blueprint	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A good read	Even if you don't teach poetry writing, you will love this book if you're a writer of politically conscious poetry or if you care about how good poetry gets written. With the popularity of Slam poetry these days, this is a very useful primer. It includes poems from different cultural backgrounds about a range of racial, social, and gender issues. It also provides lists of suggested readings that go beyond the narrow range of poetry books found in mainstream bookstores.	2001-10-10
US	52470507	RIF3BCE20TK9U	0863163262	601091273	Revolutionary Suicide	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A must read	If you're going to study the Black Panther Party, you of course must check out a story of its preminent leader. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. He gave me an understanding what it meant to be a radical Black activist during the 60s and 70s. It meant that you had to be courageous, committed, and five steps ahead of the cops, the FBI, and informants.<br />Of course, now, this is Huey's account of the Party. While his is seriously important, the works of other Panthers and scholars who are now publishing works about the Panthers must also be studied. For now that I'm reading a biography on another Panther leader, Geronimo Pratt, I'm very interested in understanding more about the political split that took place in the BPP. Why did Huey expell Pratt from the Party? Why did Eldridge Cleaver turn out to be so reactionary? I look forward to reading other books on the Panthers to answer these and other questions.	2001-10-10
US	52470507	RGM8L3Z9VHFGE	1565842839	773311159	A Totally Alien Life-Form: Teenagers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Powerful interviews with teens	I'm not sure why this book has not be interviewed before. It's a very powerful collection of oral stories about the lives of teens from various economic, cutlural, and gender backgrounds. As you might expect, many of the stories are of teens with troubled backgrounds. There are stories about teens and drugs, teens coming a bi-racial families, teens of immigrant families, and teens alienated from so-called mainstream society.<br />I've used several of these stories in my classroom with high school students and I found them to be very helpful for classroom disucssions on issues of ethnic identity, homosexuality, racism, teenage pregnancy, and what it means to live bi-culturally.<br />I highly recommend this book to parents, teachers, and anyone who works with teens on regular basis.	2001-10-10
US	52470507	R2DFTIJ8DT6XB4	0325001588	457542925	One Size Fits Few: The Folly of Educational Standards	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A true activist teacher	&quot;One Size Fits Few&quot; is for all those frustrated teachers who see standadized tests as unfair and a complete waste of time. It's a book that full stories, arguments, and analysis that will provide teachers, parents, politicians, and education activists with ways to talk against the current standards craze. Like she says at the start of her book: &quot;What the education world needs is a few strong administrators and teachers and parents to join together, proclaiming, 'Enough is enough'--people who know how to say, 'We're as mad as hell, and we're not going to this any more.'&quot;	2001-10-09
US	52470507	R35PIJH0UTMXO4	0316548189	848381140	Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela	Books	4	0	4	N	N	He did not fight alone	When I read Mandela autobiography last year, I kept thinking how good it was to finally read his first person account of the history of the anti-apartheid, anti-colonial struggle. While I had previously read many of his speeches and writings about Mandela, it  was good to see his view of the struggle. What comes out most clear in this book is that Mandela never sees the liberation of Azania/South Africa as his struggle alone. He constantly reminds his readers, as he did in the popular interview on the Oprah Wimphrey Show, that it was he and the ANC, along with the oppressed masses of South Africa, who fought and won the liberation of South Africa. Mandela clearly understands the role and purpose of organization in liberation struggle. Despite the media hype that tries to paint him as some sort of messiah, he shows that political education and mass organization are what brings about freedom.<br />The only problem I did have with his story is that he glosses over the final days or months of his imprisonment.  Any politically consciousness person reading his book would know that there must of been a lot more negotiation and deal making in order for the vicious, settler, racist European government and establishment to allow him to go free and become the head of state of South Africa. While it's clear that the European power structure was also responding to the pressures of the liberation struggle, they no doubt pushed Mandela and leading members of the ANC that the liberation of South Africa would require certain conditions so that the power structure in South Africa could maintain its economic interest. Thus, I guess it would be difficult for Mandela to fully disclose what took place before his release from prison, but somehow this account of the liberation struggle must be revealed in order that we get a better understanding of present-day South Africa.	2001-10-05
US	52470507	R6YSW1Y4Z8Z5L	0609606131	937960394	Stop Teaching Our Kids to Kill : A Call to Action Against TV, Movie and Video Game Violence	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Media in a violent culture.	While it's very difficult to show absolute evidence that media violence has an influence on violent behavior, this work at least helps us think about the role of media violence in an essentially violent culture.<br />There's enough research out there to show that poverty, greed, emotional insecurity, and family instability have dominate influence on violent behavior, but the role of media violence should not be dismissed or taken lightly.<br />While not everyone responds to media images in the same way, there are children and adults who will be influenced by media violence mainly because a culture of violence may already exist in their immediate surroundings or that  the pervasiness of media violence provides viewers with little or no other options for resolving human conflict.<br />We must ask oursleves what does it mean when our youth simply see very few or no images or examples of people resolving conflict in non-violent ways? What does this teach them about the human condition?  At the same time, how well do youth understand that media violence is mostly an  expedient means of writing a movie and exploiting the emotions of viewers?  In order to write stories that don't make use of gratutious violence would mean a greater investment on the part of the media industry--an investment they obviously seem to think is too expensive.<br />Thus, in Grossman and DeGaetano's view, &quot;Television and movie violence overstimulate our children and overstress their brains. The faster and the more salient the violent imagery, the more likely it is that our kids will be in states of emotional arousal. It is the fast action and the quick cuts of today's programming that keep the young brain on alert, in a way very similarly to the soildier who is on alert in the battlefield, or an abused child who is on alert for the next slap.&quot;<br />The authors can't back up such views with evidence, but their arguments give us something to think about, and it should give the media industry to think about and act upon as well.	2001-10-05
US	52470507	R3EJWO2VUKFOPK	0465061796	273853081	PR! - A Social History of Spin	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A book about thought control	A teacher colleague and I read this book when it was first published. We would go to the teachers' lunch room almost everday with an ongoing discussion of what we read. <br />To understand the history, power and influence of public relations and advertising in this country, PR is a must read. In lucid analysis, Ewen lays out how the public relations industry in this country helps to shape the consumer thought of citizens. He shows how this industry grew out of <BR>an elitist view of the masses of people in this country that they did not need to be expose to certain information or processes that converen or controll society--both politically and economically. That instead, their thoughts, ideas, and their access to certain knowledge needed to be controlled and that certain information needed to be manufactured in order to push people to act in a certain way.<br />He explains, for example, how elitist writers like Walter Lippman \\"had written that the key to leadership inthe modern age would depend on the ability to manipulate \\"'symbols which assemble emotions after they have been detached from their ideas.  The public mind is mastered, he continued, through an 'intensificatioin of feeling and a degradation of significance.' \\" In other words, corporations, and their public relations workers essentially use symbols to further their agendas, which is basically to make huge amounts of profit. <br />I look forward to reading other books by Ewen.	2001-10-05
US	52470507	R38B4GFKVDTWYT	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Propaganda Exposed	It's not often that you get such a huge book that is written so clearly and so well that it reads like it's only a few hundred pages instead of over 500. As a progressive journalist, Ms. Klien is critically insightful in the way she helps readers understand the role branding, advertising, labor, politics, and oppression in the context of a global/imperialist economy. Not only does she  help us connect with what we already should know about companies like Nkie, McDonalds, and the Gap, but she also provides the context for their global exploitation of workers and consumers. <br />I would strongly suggest that her work be followed up with a reading of Stewart Ewen's PR!: A History of Spin and Jane Kilbournes's Deadly Persuasions. These works, amongst others, expose well just how powerful but sadly how unacknowledged the propaganda industry of advertising and consumer culture is. This consumer culture help shapes values, desires, prejudices, and apathy toward non-consumer areas of society. In other words, these works help us understand how the American/Western society is centered around the buying and selling of goods and labor. They describe how advertising works to influence consumption in a country like America where there are endless amounts of goods and services that must be bought in order to feed the profit machine of growing numbers of millionaires and billionaires. <br />Finally, these works provide an analysis of the economic, political, environmental and social  consequences of such high levels of consumption and production.<br />No Logo has many lessons to teach us, but it's up to us to head those lessons.	2001-10-04
US	52470507	R25RBI7KW3ACSG	0345430697	470618518	Workin' on the Chain Gang: Shaking Off the Dead Hand of History (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Down with Capitalism!	We [the working class] are marginalized by the profit of capitalism. We are footnotes to Citibank and the Mobil Oil Corporation and Chiquita Brands International (once know as the United Fruit Company). --Walter Mosely<br />Because I have  read and advocated the analysis, ideas, and visions of Jesus, Karl Marx, Fedel Castro, Dorothy Day, Kwame Nkrumah, Rosa Luxanburg, and Mother Jones, Malcolm X, and Martin Luther King, and Paulo Friere, and many others, I didnt find much new in this work by Walter Mosley. However, it was refreshing to see a fiction writer with skill, talent, and insight, attempt to give a piece of his mind in an honest, direct way.<br />Im not sure how people who are fans of Mosleys best selling fictional works will read this, his first non-fiction book. But I would suggest that despite its brevity and lack of development, this book would make a great book club discussion. Its packed with enough insight and ideas for contemporary political thought that it might indeed lead readers to ponder life beyond their American Dream homes, automobiles, household gadgets, and Kodak moments.  <br />Mosely makes sharp criticism of an American capitalist society which essentially puts profits before people and consumption before real needs. Thus, while people starve and receive medical care in this the richest country in the world, 5% of the population holds at least half the wealth in the country. There are people in this country who make say $5000 an hour when they go to work, while the rest of the population gets by on two-family incomes, over-time hours, and two-jobs salaries. And this says nothing about the poorest parts of the world where a bar of soap and toothpaste are luxury items.<br />As Mosely reminds us, We know how much money every armed bandit has stolen from banks but almost nothing about how much the banks have stolen from us. We are told, during the commercial, how much some piece of clothing costs, but the returning anchorrefrains from telling us what economic havoc we have caused in the third world by paying slave wages to local workers to make the price attractive [and profitable].<br />Mosely attempts to give his view of an ideal system that would replace capitalism. But here he falls short. He regrets the doesnt know the exact steps that need to be taken to free us from our entanglements.  Hes not even sure its possible. But when tries to say that everyone has a right to a living wage, a right to competent medical care, and a share in the natural resources that the nation either owns or creates, he sounds to me, as I  understand it, like hes a calling for a socialist system--though he dismisses early on in his book Marxism and communism as failed ideologies. Thats too bad. For I think if he had put more thought into a socialist transformation of society, he could have provided his readers with more to think about.<br />Instead, he suggest that readers contemplate their visions for a better world. But I bet when people do that, it will simply sound more like individualistic, capitalist visions of society. Its not that we shouldnt contemplate our own visions, but I suggest that its not that we, as Mosely suggest, need to make a list of what it is that you deserve for a lifetime of labor, but that we need to involve ourselves in a process of political education. We need political reading groups in our places of worship, our colleges, communities, and places of employment. As we politically educate ourselves, we can begin to ask ourselves what could I do with other in an organized manner to work for what I think is just and right.<br />This political education process could begin with Mosely work.	2001-10-02
US	52470507	R3BRA7SSEXPYEY	086543171X	575111885	The Mis-Education of the Negro	Books	5	432	476	N	N	A Classic Must Read	This book ought to be required reading for every teacher, educator, administrator, and parents who intereact with children of African descent. Woodson's work helps us understand that African peoples are truely mis-educated. We largely receive an Eurocentric or White middle class, elitist education that by and large does not serve the needs of our communities. This mis-education creates a serious identity crisis on the part of African youth and it causes many Black &quot;educated&quot; middle class people to spend more time trying to reach the consumer American Dream rather than working toward a real self-determination agenda of African peoples. Thus it's of little suprise today that most African students never enroll in a course on African/African-American studies.  In fact, these courses are becoming more rare in high school and colleges across the nation. Even with the current renaissance of Black literature in this country, the study of African/Black culture, politics, and spiritual life are rarely discussed. In Woodson's words: &quot;Real education means to inspire people to live more abundantly, to learn to begin with life as they find it and make it better, but the instruction so far given Negroes [and still today] in colleges and universities [and elementary and secondary schools] has worked to the contrary. In most cases such graduates have merely increased the number of malcontents who offer no program for changing the undesiriable conditions about which they complain. &quot; Woodson's book is clearly not out-dated. In fact, it reads as if it were published last year, instead of 1933. I would like to close this response to Woodson's work with another classic quote from him:  &quot;If you control a man's thinking you do not have to worry about his action. When you determine what a man shall think you do not have to concern yourself about what he will do. If you make a person feel that he/she is inferior, you do not have to compel him/her to accept an inferior status, he/she will seek for it. If you make a person think he/she is a justly outcast, yoiu do not have to order that person to the back door, that person will go without being told, and if there is no back door, the very nature of that person will demand one.&quot;	2001-10-01
US	52470507	R3SBNHV37UYC52	0195127161	191417222	Brown v. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Milestone and Its Troubled Legacy (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	3	16	18	N	N	More Is Needed	Much more needs to be written about the Brown v. Board of Education era. Patterson indeed does a good service of describing the &quot;trouble legacy&quot; of Brown. For while school integregation and the end to seperate but equal laws were a major revolution of sorts in this country, Brown left unresolved significant questions and problems concerning the education of African descended students and other minorities. For example, while Brown focused on legal and structural changes in public education, which led to the desegregation of schools, it did not address issues of integrating school curriculum and preparing teachers and school officials for a multicultural transformation of schooling. It simply assumed that the solution to racism in this society was to provide a way for Blacks to assimilate in the larger White society instead of empowering themselves to respect and build their own culture and institutions. While Patterson deals with the legal aspects Brown, he too avoids or overlooks the pedagogical and cultural issues that went unaddressed in Brown. Thus, Patterson's work doesn't add significantly anything new to the history of Brown that is not dealt with in J. Harvie Wilkson's From Brown to Bakke or Kluger's Simple Justice.	2001-09-25
US	52470507	R3S3CLTH1APH2O	0684859289	648165684	The Skin We're In: Teaching Our Teens To Be Emotionally Strong, Socially Smart, and Spiritually Connected	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Call for Black Pride	Like Beverely Tatutum's &quot;Why Are All the Black Kinds Sitting Together in the Cafteria?&quot;, Ms. Ward's work is a much needed call for Black cultural identity develoopment on the part of children of African descent. For too many Black children and teens in this country are experiencing an identity crisis--whereby hip-hop identity is associated with gangsterism and being smart is equated with being White. Ward's work calls for Black culture to be used as tool for Black achievement and identity. The only missing part of this book is practical suggestions or strategies that parents could use to help their children develop Black cultural consciousness. A sort of resource book or workbook would be useful companion to her work.	2001-09-25
US	52470507	R23H1YFSRUSK63	0452282101	976247392	The Debt: What America Owes to Blacks	Books	5	3	13	N	N	Right on the mark	Like his first book, Definding the Spirit, Robinson's The Debt is a good read for the writing alone. Robinson's style and voice is passionate, literary, and activist-oriented. While Robinson is not a revolutionary Pan-Africanist like Kwame Nkrumah or Kwame Ture (Stockely Carmiacheal), he is nevertheless unapologically committed to self-determination of African peoples. His analysis of White capitalist partriarchy in the Americas and Africa is much needed during a time when Black empowerment and cultural alienation is at an all time high.  While this book is about the debt that America owes to African people, it's really about agenda setting for African people--an agenda that calls for the self-determination of African peoples.  For what we decide to do with the repaid dept--if it ever comes--is equally as important as the debt itself.	2001-09-25
US	52470507	RZEE5BIP5M88T	0765603373	130385291	Media Messages: What Film, Television and Popular Music Teach Us About Race, Class, Gender and Sexual Orientation	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Useful for Educators	&quot;Media Messages&quot; is one of the few books to confront issues of race, class, and gender in the media. Holtzman's work will be useful to media literacy educators seeking ideas for how to address issues of multiculturalism and the media in the classroom. Holtzman provides media activities that help readers and students reflect on their own racial, sexual, and class backgrounds and perceptions, and how the latter is informed by film, television, and popular music. <BR>Her analysis is not just theoretical, but is supported with numerious examples of television shows, movies, and songs to explore issues of racism, poverty, and sexism. I recommend this book along Carlos Cortes's The Children Are Watching, and Zook's Color by Fox.	2001-09-25
US	52470507	RV5KC7NA11YFF	0936262494	722874153	Camcorder Business: Start and Operate a Profitable Videotaping Business Using Your Camcorder	Books	3	11	13	N	N	wait on a better book	I purchased this book to get some possible ideas for raising money for my classroom through video production. While this book contains some useful material and ideas, I wish the authors hadn't spent the first five chapters on video production and camera techniques and selections. Anyone considering a business in videography is likely to be familiar with material in those chapters. Instead, the authors could have expanded the business aspect of the book, providing more insight on how to handle various events ( e.g. weddings, parties, company training videos.)  They also could have include pictures of various events and how they were shot using a video camera. It's sad to read about visual media that doesn't itself include pictures or even a CD. Lastly, the book is poorly written. It's full of simple declarative sentences, which basically means you can read past the first few sentences of each paragraph and still get the jest of what's being said. Other than that, this book does have some pointers about business contracts, sample ideas for making money using your cam, and some basic insight about editing, which by now some of it is outdated, considering the new editing technology available. So only buy this book if you know nothing about setting up a camcorder business.	2001-06-20
US	52470507	RGUT5H4FLB42Q	0836826949	596191167	Lights! Camera! Action Dog! (Wishbone Mysteries, 11)	Books	2	0	12	N	N	Don't waste your money.	Unless you know absolutely nothing about video production, don't waste your money on this book. It's far too basic. There are hardly any illustrations of camera and production techniques. Even though the author provides some praticle ideas about producing music videos and parodies of commercials, he glosses over way too many ideas. Whycouldn't the heprovide some actual samples of work he did students in the area of video production? Teachers need a book like this, but this one needs to be updated and revised.	2001-06-09
US	52470507	R25FARHXONS2DT	0817463496	781871481	Using Your Camcorder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very useful	Just got a used copy of this book today. I've been checking out quite a few books on camcorder production and home video ideas and I think this one is the best so far.  The book is filled with photographs that illustrate the techniques and strategies she describes in her book. If she could ever reprint this work, it would be great to have a CD Rom of examples to go along with the text. The only other home video production resource I have found that is equally useful is a video titled, \\"Home Video Hits,\\" which can also be gotten through Amazon. It's a little dorky in it presentation, but it provides the basic ideas of great video production.	2001-06-09
US	52470507	R1UI108JDI4PY9	0195098293	408822276	The Rise of the Image, the Fall of the Word	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Powerful insight	I read Stephen's last summer and I'm now rereading parts of it in preparation for using video in my classroom next Fall. There's no doubt what Stephen says is true. The role of the image can often be even more powerful than the word. For example, Henry Hampton's documentary, Eyes on the Prize, conveys much more emotionally and intellectually than any book on the Civil Rights Movement. Even the most prolific readers out there are moved by powerful motion pictures and documentaries. So far me Stephen's work is only a start in terms of examining what we can be done with visual communication, especially the video.	2001-05-20
US	52470507	R2GQLNEU36ALO9	0060184949	982337602	Salvation: Black People and Love	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Glad she wrote it.	Being an avid reader of hooks' works, I didn't find much new in &quot;Salvation,&quot;; however, I agree strongly with her thesis that much more needs to be said and explored about Black people loving Black people. The poet Nikki Giovanni once wrote that Black love is Black wealth, but it seems that since the Black is Beautiful sixties, many Black people have been led away from the notions of love for one another to a concentration of materialism and/or sheer survival in the 90s. Hooks' newest work raises how images of Black love are absent in popular culture and everyday life. She maintains that even the historical struggle for civil rights and Black Power often overlooked the need for African people in this country to love one another in ways that were empowering. The emphasis--though extremely important--was on fighting White racial injustice but not enough about loving ourselves and our children. We are still challenged, hooks argues, by White racist images of who we are. We must continue to decolonalize racist ways we think about one another and create beloved communities..	2001-01-15
US	52470507	R3NXZ7QV4BKXAK	0304334340	749682101	The Global Media: The Missionaries of Global Capitalism (Media Studies)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Informative	This is the second book I've read by MChesney and as with the first one, I found it very informative and important to understanding the ways market forces are shaping global societies on a daily basis. Few people in this country realize the impact of U.S. media conglemerates on other countries. It's too often assumed that what is good for America is good for the world. Well, McChesney and Herman show that it's not. Capitlaist driven media is helping to destablize pubic interests and voices throughout the globe. Owrell's Big Brother is not needed. We simply get from dominate media mergers limited choices about what is happening in the world today. By delivering these limited choices, profit driven media help themselves and other powerful capitalists maintain their own interests and power. Notice, for example, how ABC, CBS, NBC, and even CNN reported the same thing about what took with the recent elections. There's no alternative view, there's only the corporate view. That's what advertisers pay for and that's what the dominate media delivers. The next book I'm reading on this subject is Dean Alger's &quot;Medgamedia,&quot; which seems be even more lucidly written than McChesney and Herman's.	2001-01-06
US	52470507	R37YK2WOFOJVAB	0872072452	517660744	Popular Culture in the Classroom: Teaching and Researching Critical Media Literacy (IRA's Literacy Studies Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Much needed book.	There's very little written about the role of popular culture in the classroom. Nearly all teachers get little or no education in what popular  culture is all about, but yet popular culture has a powerful influence on  shaping the self-images, values, and ideas young people have about  themselves, their peers, and the larger society.<br />The authors of this work  start from the premise that &quot;The ability to read and critique popular  media is significant for at least two reasons. First, in an age of  expanding consumerism, children and young people who learn to question how  their identities are constructed by the various forms of popular culture  that they elect to take up are likely to make more informed decisions about  how they live their lives. Second, the abundance of media messages (both  image based and verbal) in the home and community suggests that there is an  urgent need to help students learn how to evaluate such messages for their  social, economic, and aesthetic contents.&quot; These authors go on to tell  about the ways they approached or observed the teaching or use of popular  culture in the classroom. Topics such as the differences between the  Backstreet Boys and Puff Daddy, the Spice Girls, self-identity and images  of young women in popular texts, and the various approaches to the pedagogy  of popular culture are explored. The authors offer no cookbook strategies  to take to the classroom, but they do provide a framework for teachers  interested in introducing popular culture in their classroom. <br />Finally, I  would like to say it's significant that this work is published by the  International Reading Association, for &quot;reading&quot; popular culture  is very much a part of how young people read their world. For far too long  adults have assumed that the adult world is the only world to read and  understand. In this approach, we have allowed the media and popular culture  to educate our youth, while we assumed that the &quot;adult,&quot;  canonized world of school could have a greater impact. Well, it's not. We  need to come to grips with that. We can use popular culture to help young  people understand and become critically aware, as the authors explain, of  how the social, political, and economic messages emanate from different  forms of popular culture.<br />I highly recommend this work to my fellow  teachers.	2000-08-10
US	52470507	R304DUBG68J0QV	0252024486	686309018	Rich Media, Poor Democracy: COMMUNICATION POLITICS IN DUBIOUS TIMES (History of Communication)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	powerful book	Much has already been written about this book. I would add that McChesney's book is primer for understanding how the media industry has given way to corporate control and neoliberal policies that contend that  business and profit are the paradigms for progress in this society and the  rest of the world. Frankly, it's very scary that an institution so powerful  of an influence on the public mind as the media is so well controlled by  profit interests. It's scary indeed that the voices of millions of people  are being drowned out by those who own and control the media. How do we  confront this threat and dominance? We first understand its power and then  we support forums, alternative media, and organizations that work to  provide voices for people who will never get heard on ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN,  the New York Times, and your local t.v. and radio stations. McChesney's  book lays out the framework for why we need a media that serves democracy,  but that framework must be put into practice by those who dedicated to  bringing it about.	2000-07-28
US	52470507	R312KQB2PWR9Z0	0465091296	824891522	Why Are All The Black Kids Sitting Together In The Cafeteria?: And Other Conversations About Race	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A must read!	I share this book in workshops I facilitate and numerous talks with my teacher colleagues. There's no other work I know that explains so well the need for us to understand the role of racial/cultural identity plays in  shaping what our youth, particularly youth of African descent, feel and  understand about themselves in this society. Tatum's book will help you  understand that if racial and cultural identity are not a part of the  curriculum and schooling, the social and cultural needs of many students  will remain out of sight to them and to their teachers.<br />I feel that this  book should be required reading for teacher preperation programs. It  explores issues of racial identity development, racism, and empowerment.  Well done studies and discussions of the book should inform reader of how  schooling needs to change in order to help students shape their  racial/cultural identity in ways that are empowering and transformative. So  much so that when a student understands her own identity, she is better  able to cross bridges to understand relate to others outside her  group.<br />Finally, I would like to comment on the writing of this book. I  have met Ms. Tatum on two occassions. Her warm, modest personality is  reflected well in her writing. Though she is scholar, her book is written  with compassion and spirit. She knows how to translate some very weighty  issues and concepts into very clean prose that is not redundant and  weighted down with jargon. I wish more scholars would learn to write like  her.	2000-07-28
US	52470507	R1MFJE7TRIHFYK	0684865998	588602050	DEADLY PERSUASION: Why Women And Girls Must Fight The Addictive Power Of Advertising	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Couldn't put it down	When I discovered this work in the bookstore, I immediately purchased it. I had been using Kilbourne's video &quot;Still Killing Us Softly,&quot; in my 11th grade classroom for a few years now. I and my students found her  analysis and examples to be eye opening and honest. What her new book does  is update her analysis of how women are objectified in advertising. Perhaps  if you thought advertising has changed in it representations of women,  Kilbourne clearly shows you it hasn't. She provides a plethora of  contemporary examples that expose well a culture that puts a lot of its  demands on women to look sexually beautiful.   I use her work, and now  her new video Still Killing Us Softly III, in my classroom because it's  very much needed to help my students understand ways that the media and  advertising help to maintain, shape, and reshape gender stereotypes. Her  analysis helps to show how this culture of &quot;beauty&quot; can often  lead to discrimination and the marginalization of women (and men) who don't  fit the media constructions of beauty.   I recommend this book for any  teacher doing media literacy in the classroom. It's well written, well  researched, and the last chapter brings forth the type of political  analysis missing in much of media education.	2000-07-02
US	52470507	R2J0HSP2D3DHU5	0688175805	195770438	The Color of Our Future: Race in the 21st Century	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Would make good reading for the classroom.	Many will criticize this young writer for being a little cocky and too sure of herself, but I think she writes well about the subject of race and racism--a subject very difficult for most people to discuss. As a teacher,  I would very much like to have this book for classroom discussion. The  stories about interracial marriage, affirmative action at UC Berkeley,  hip-hop on MTV, life on a Native American reservation, the problems of  boarder patrol, etc. would all make for interesting, provocative  discussion.  While her narrative tends to jump around, her journalist  skills make this book easy to read. Young people could learn much form this  text.	2000-06-29
US	52470507	R2KC7MA0X037SV	0807739375	281024133	The Children Are Watching: How the Media Teach About Diversity (Multicultural Education Series (New York, N.Y.).)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Very lucid and revealing...	Even though as a media literacy teacher of African descent I disagree with some of the conclusions Carlos Cortes makes in his book, I appreciate that he has written it. In a very lucid writing style, especially for an  academic, Cortes demonstrates how multicultural issues do indeed exist in  mainstream media. He provides in one chapter his example of a  media  journal he kept in which he records and comments on the multicultural  content found in his day-by-day (for a month in this case) encounters with  mostly mainstream media. He reads stories about immigration and  naturalization, Dr. Laura Schlesinger's observance of Rosh Hashannah, a  Latino columnist discussing &quot;the importance of multiethnic role  models,&quot; the Promise Keepers, Louis Farrahkhan and his call for a  national day of atonement, the antibilingual initiative in California, the  Million Woman March, Sports Illustrated stories on racism, etc. This is a  useful strategy for helping students make conscious use of the media. So  often students are led to believe there's nothing there except crime and  politics. <br />Basically, Cortes contends that diversity issues are raised in  the media. That media is a source of non-school multicultural learning. But  what is needed is an analysis of how young people respond to such media  content. He shares some of his grand daughter's responses to movies like  The Lion King and Pocahontas. Despite the valid criticism these media  presentations received, he sees them as occassions for multicultural  awareness. For him, the media and the public school system play similiar  roles in providing multicultural education, but they each do it slightly  different ways.<br />He also argues that students need to be taught how to  examine media texts in a critical way--not in terms of bashing media, but  in making a critical analysis of its presentations. This means that  teachers need to bring media into the classroom and not allow it to be the  main teacher of diversity issues. For in many ways, he argues, students  learn more about diversity issues from the media and society than they do  from the classroom.<br />While I think it's important that he brings this  somewhat positive view of mainstream media, I think he should have provided  an analysis of what ethnically focused and genered-focused media are doing.  In publications like Ms.Magazine, Emerge, Hispanic, ColorLines, and the new  Asian American magazines diversity issues and representations are very much  present and often provide a very different analysis than mainstream  media.<br />Lastly, I was disappointed that he didn't address the role of  corporate media and mergers and how it marginalizes and makes difficult for  a true diversity of voices to get heard. While yes diversity issues are  addressed, they are often presented in sterotypical ways or from very  limited viewpoints. While mainstream media, for example, has covered issues  on immigration or bilinqual education, it is usually from a White  mainstream point of view. Progressive writers, reporters, and actors in  these issues don't get their own shows and columns in mainstream media to  express their views. <br />I'm sure Cortes has read the such critics as Robert  W. McChesney (__Rich Media, Poor Democracy__) who show how corporate media  and its commercial driven interests help to essentially erode democracy and  diversity in this country. I can't understand why he doesn't address this  problem in his otherwise useful book.<br />I nevertheless recommend this book.  It's very useful for media literacy teachers K-College. Not too many works  on this subject exist and this one is sure to help lead to future research  and analysis.<br />P.S. I also would recommend another work similiar to this  one: The Black Image in the White Mind: Media and Race in America, by  Robert Entman and Andrew and Rojecki.	2000-06-19
US	52470507	R380JANWAU7R7I	0226210758	77920097	The Black Image in the White Mind: Media and Race in America (Studies in Communication, Media, and Public Opinion)	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Long needed research.	This is a very important book of research. Though written in sociologist language (lots of statistics and repetitition claims), this is one work that provides meticulous reserach about how the media help perpetuate  racial stereotypes and prototypes in this society.<br />As a teacher who is  studying widely literature about the media, I found Entman and Rojecki's  work useful for providing a lens to better analyze media representations of  Black and White people. The authors contend that &quot;Blacks now occupy a  kind of limbo status in White America's thinking, neither fully accepted  nor wholly rejected by the dominant culture.  The ambiguity of Blacks'  situation gives particular relevance and perhaps potency to the images of  African Americans in the media.&quot; <br />They show that though  representations of Black people are quantitatively better than in the past,  these representations still convey stereotypical or ambiguous images of  Blacks. For example, though there has been sharp increase of Black male  actors in movies, their roles still revolve around plots that focus on  sports, crime, and violence. In the area of news media, Blacks are usually  presented as sources of disruption, as victims, and as complaining  supplicants. These type of images, they contend, help to maintain a gap in  what they refer to as comity on the part of Whites toward Blacks and other  racial minorities in this country. <br />They provide a well known but much  needed reiteration of why the media maintains these stereotypes and  marginalizations of racial minorities: largely it's eoncomics.&quot;Media  workers,&quot; they argue, &quot;seek to make money for their organizations  and advance their own careers. That means that they must stay vigilantly  attuned to the presumed tastes of their target audiences. These creators  operate in a professional culture and organizationl milieu that transmits  lessons about what attracts and sells, what upsets and repels. Ratings and  market research increasingly inform decisions, whether about news coverage  or entertainment plots.&quot; They argue that political and White  ethnocentricism play an equal role as well<br />Though critics may disagree  with some of the authors'analysis and conclusions, this book deserves wide  reading in media studies, communications, ethnic studies, and sociology  courses. It should be read as a useful resource by concerned teachers and  media activists.	2000-06-05
US	52470507	RD1IE6R1RJFWB	0195106121	990547004	Color by Fox: The Fox Network and the Revolution in Black Television (W.E.B. Du Bois Institute)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Race and Media: the Real Deal	This is a seriously important book. Zook makes a strong claim for the appeal of such Black-produced shows like In Living Color, Roc, South Central, The Fresh Prince of Bell Air, Living Single, Martin, and New York  Undercover to a largely Black audience. Zook argues and illustrates how  these shows were built off a Black autobiographical tradition of Black  writers, producers, and actors. As I remember watching the shows, they  often dealt with intraracial group issues that though not always easily  understood by white viewers were nevertheless both entertaining and  culturally important to Black viewers.    I'm not sure if there are  similiar or better works published that deal with Zook's claims and  analysis. Many of the shows listed above delt with complicated issues of  race, class, and gender surely not found in mainstream shows. In her  analysis, she explores four common traits that reappear in these shows:  &quot;these can be summarized as: autobiography, meaning a tendacy toward  collective and individual authorship of black experience; improvisation,  the practice of inventing and ad-libbing unscripted dialogue or action;  aeasthetics, a certain pride in visual signifiers of blackness; and drama,  a marked desire for complex characterization and emotionally challenging  subject.&quot;<br />An entire media literacy course could be built around this  book. Probably at no other time or in the near future will we see Black  representation as culturally sensistive as it was during the time these  shows were cast on Fox. It's important that we use these shows as case  studies for the future of Black representation in the media.<br />I would love  to dialogue with others who choose to read this book. Write me not at the  above address, but at BChavanu@excite.com.	2000-04-21
US	52470507	R17A3B3DP05A6T	0671866397	822596527	Warriors Don't Cry: A Searing Memoir of the Battle to Integrate Little Rock's Central High	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Understanding Racist Terror	I truely applaud Ms. Beale for writing this story. She and the nine other students who intergrated Central High were true warriors on the battle ground to dismantle racial segregation and overt racism. Her book is  extremely sad and at times will made me very angry. As I turned the pages  of her book, I was hoping to read that she stood up to the racist White  student terrorists of Central High and made them understand their barbarism  and lack of humanity. But each day, she and her comrades chose to turn the  other cheek. While I'm not sure I can agree with a non-violent philosophy  in principle, I can understand that fear on the part of African people, the  racist nature of white supremacy, and the realities of African people   attending an all White school where they were not wanted would compel them  to turn the other cheek instead of lashing back in anger. On the other  hand, the lessons of Civil Rights and Black Power movement taught many  African people that passive resistance and meekness does not always stop  injustice. It's important that your enemy be to taugth to respect you as an  human being. So by the end of her book, I was wanting more reflection by Ms  Beale about what she has come to understand about that time back in 1957.  Was sending young people with little or no training or preparation to wage  battles against racial violence an effective approach? What role could the  NAACP had played in preparing those nine young students in putting their  lives on the line?  What did Ms. Beale lose by trying to integrate into  Central High? When she was not being spat upon, egged, and nearly killed,  what did that school offer her that was so much better than her segragated  African schools?  I think these and other questions are important ones to  discuss in terms analyzing the costs and effects of school integration for  African people. Ms. Beale simply told us her story; we have to now  understand what it meant back then and for today.	1999-12-21
US	52470507	R1D10YCN79AYR7	0140385614	26703017	Like Sisters on the Homefront	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Make it a movie!	Most students will love this book. I'm glad Williams-Garcia wrote it. I wish it was taught in classroom, for it raises important issue about not only teenage pregnacy and motherhood, but the importance of family, cultural roots, and self-respect. There's no cute, easy ending to this  book. Three or four sequels could be written, but it should help young  people, including young boys, reflect more carefully on the choices they  make, especially when it comes to sex and their relationships with their  parents.	1999-11-21
US	52470507	R161M0XEK5U8AD	0060280778	610990578	Monster (Coretta Scott King Honor Book)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Much better than I thought.	Even though I didn't want to read yet another book about ayoung African American male in trouble with the law, I found thisstory compelling and difficult to put down. I read it quickly and wanted to discuss it with others who had read it.  If I could, I would teach this novel for the purposes of not only talking about peer pressure and crime, but to explore the criminal justice system and how it impacts young African American males.  This book shares similarities with other good works on the same topic: they include Sanyika Shakur's Monster: The Autobiography of an L.A. Gang Member, Nathan McCall's Makes Me Wanna Holler, and Joseph Marshall's Street Soldier.  All of them deal with the plight of young African males growing up in the inner city.	1999-11-21
US	52470507	R3EFT2BCWIIQHT	0399231129	971569069	If You Come Softly	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Good introduction to issues of race and relationships	I've recommened this book for my students to read  because I think it provides a love story woven together with much needed insights about race, racism, and personal relationships. Woodson writes about these issues  critically without being preachy. <br />It would be a great to teach this work  at the 7-9th grade level, for often students will miss the subtle  points  the author is making about race and racism.<br />I look forward to more books  like this being written.	1999-11-21
US	52470507	RY7C7QD2Z6OIT	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	It should be a made for t.v. movie.	This is the first work I've read by Cleage. I especially like her candid way of presenting issues of race, gender, sexuality, poverty, and the need for us to learn how to live together despite our differences. Sista, is an  honest writer.<br />Bakari	1999-05-21
US	52470507	R3G86EI2P2UD5M	0679893075	418647478	Stealing Freedom	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Important work for young peopl about institution of slavery.	This novel is an important work for helping young people get a glimpse of one of greatest European human rights violations in the history of this country--the enslavement of African people.<br />Readers will get an  understanding of what impact slavery and White supremacy had on African  families, the cruelities and utter irony of slavery itself, and the  courageous role many White abolitionsts played in helping Africans to  escape from slavery.<br />Readers can understand this story with very little  background knowledge about the history of slavery.	1999-01-19
US	52470507	R4ZG50A8MNXEN	0805059091	259429195	remembered rapture: the writer at work	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Very good book more critally conscious writers.	Again, hooks demonstrates her range as writer and social critic. She writes about what it means to be a writer who is Black, feminist, and spirtually connected.    This work will answer many of the questions  readers of her other works may have about her inspirations as a writer, why  she chose to write her memoirs, what challenges she has faced as a writer,  and how we, her readers, can connect with our own lives through writing  (She says:&quot;Writing becomes a way to embrace the mysterious, to walk  with spirits, and an entry to the realm of the sacred.&quot; And on her  early writings: &quot;My write was an act of resistance not simply in  relation to outer structures of domination like race, sex, and class; I was  writing t resist all the socialization I had received in religios,  southern, working-class, patriarchal home that tried to teach me silence as  the most desirable trait of womanliness&quot;).     It's not offen that we  get to hear a progressive writer talk about the act of writing. This area  is usually preserved for mainstream writers. So it's good to see hooks  revealing parts of her self in this work.     I think will see a lot more  from hooks. I hope she delves more into her experiences in the academy,  showing us her interacitons with her students and co-workers. While her  life is important, we also need her critical eye on the people around her.	1998-12-23
