US	52482639	RF04ICNK2JVJT	0312291450	427787085	If Chins Could Kill: Confessions of a B Movie Actor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Fun and Interesting Read	Bruce Campbell has written one of the most charming, funny and interesting Hollywood memoirs out there.  You say you've never heard of him, but the guy in the picture looks pretty familiar.  Exactly, that's the beauty of the book.  Bruce is a \\"B movie\\" actor.  He's not usually the one with his name above the movie title, and he's not usually listed as one of the \\"stars\\" of a project, but he's a steadily working actor and yes, you've probably seen him in various movies and T.V. shows. <br /> <br />Written with candor and a heavy dose of humor, this book does a great job showing you the absurdity of how Hollywood works.  It is refreshing because it is not a name-dropping, or character besmirching book either.  He does not talk about how Mr. A class actor was a real jerk, or who was sleeping with whom on this movie set, or who was inhaling or inbibing which illegal substance, etc.  There are plenty of other books where you can get that type of information if you are so inclined. <br /> <br />Bruce Campbell shares his middle class upbringing in the suburbs of Detroit, and how he met and became friends with Sam Raimi in high school - leading to a life-long working relationship.  From this he tells us about his rise up the food chain, so to speak, in Hollywood from starring in cult films such as the Evil Dead series to starring in his own television series, the Adventures of Brisco County Jr.   <br /> <br />One of the most interesting parts of the book is about the first Evil Dead film.  Sam Raimi and his college roommate Rob Tapert and Bruce Campbell decided to make a \\"real film\\" after years of working on super-8 films.  Without any idea of how to navigate the business aspects of film-making, these three young men embarked on a multi-year odyssey to make their dream come true. <br /> <br />It was fascinating to see how they raised the money from family friends, and other professionals in the Detroit area - for some reason dentists were big supporters.  The actual film shoot was very difficult, and there were huge learning curves for everyone involved.  Then after they made the film they had to learn how to market the film to get a distribution deal, so that it could be shown in movie theatres.  I've never even seen the film, but I was thoroughly fascinated by the experiences of these talented young men with a dream, naivete and chutzpah. <br /> <br />If you're interested on the actual behind-the-scenes experiences of a working actor, read this book.  Even if you're not familiar with Bruce Campbell's work, I still recommend the book.  Enjoy!	2004-10-19
US	52482639	R2V1DWLOF1IY9U	067174139X	953789422	Masks (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 7)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating Planetary Culture	This is kind of unique for a Star Trek book.  There is a lot of time and detail spent on a culture that was never featured in the television series.<br />The basic story is that Captain Picard, Deanna Troi and Lt. Worf accompany an ambassador on an mission to make contact with representatives of the planet Lorca, who are descended from a human theatrical troupe.  The away team is cut off from the Enterprise because of volcanic activity interfering with communications with the ship.  Commander Riker proceeds to take Data, Dr. Pulaski and 2 security officers down to the planet to find the Captain.  A basic storyline, and not really worthy of such a high rating.<br />However, the culture of Lorca is fascinating.  Everyone on the planet wears a mask.  The masks show social status within the community, and they announce a person's place in society.  There is a lot of detail about this very fascinating culture.  The intricacies of Lorcan custom and the way the various Enterprise crew members react to Lorcan society make up the heart of this book.  <br />Now there are a few problems.  Commander Riker is portrayed as an almost hysterical person, who freaks out when they can't contact the Captain.  He is in such a rush to get down to the planet that he forgets to provide his away team with masks, and risks offending the planet's population.  The character of the Ambassador is rather unbalanced, and it is difficult to believe that Starfleet wouldn't catch his person's personality deficencies.  Captain Picard's romantic interlude is unbelievable, and almost comical.<br />However, in spite of these problems this is a good book.  It is a fairly fast read, and of all the Next Generation and Original Series books I've read this has the most interesting depiction of a planetary culture.  I would love to see another book about the planet Lorca, and it wouldn't even have to be a Star Trek book.	2002-09-04
US	52482639	R2CAT98NAFJ8W1	094407278X	165140116	Murder in the Museum of Man	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A different who done it	Everyone knows at least one Norman Abbot de Ratour.  The museum world and academia seem to attract his type, so having him as the protaganist of this mystery was perfect.  Norman is a middle aged, single, never married, fussy, prissy, pretentious man.  He hides behind the barrage of memos over the &quot;correct procedure&quot; for everything from where the annual Christmas party should be held to meeting procedures, etc.<br />Norman's ordered life is assaulted at every angle by the modern world, the slovenly museum business manager, and the attempts by Wainscott University to take over the governance of his beloved Museum of Man.  Into this mix, the visiting Dean from Wainscott University is murdered and his remains seem to have been feasted upon and prepared by a gourmet chef.  The attending scandal on his beloved museum is more than Norman can stand, so he decides to solve the mystery himself.<br />The book is written as an unofficial Museum of Man journal by Recording Secretary Norman de Ratour.  You feel the pain of this man as he tries to come to grips with the fact that his ordered &quot;civilized&quot; world doesn't really exist anymore.  We also learn about his lost love, Elsbeth.  One hears so much about her, that it isn't even a surprise when she appears in the last quarter of the book.  Not a natural detective, Norman makes many false starts and wonders how best to proceed, trying to draw on the few detective stories he has read.<br />The book takes great joy poking fun at academia, museums, governing bodies, committees, etc.  The meetings where the Wainscott oversight committee looks into the proposed exhibit on Neanderthal life is hysterical.  My only complaint about the book is that it proceeds along at a leisurely, drawn out pace for 4/5 of the book then - bam we are rushed to an ending that makes sense but seems to come somewhat out of left field.  <br />If you have worked in museums, academia, or similar environments you will enjoy this book.  If you want a good, interesting and amusing read you will enjoy this book.  However, if you are looking for a fast read, look elsewhere.	2002-07-12
US	52482639	R28V01VQYELD0O	0671746480	456316659	Power Hungry (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 6)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Obvious Story	Howard Weinstein is very concerned about the environment.  If you read the author's notes at the beginning of the book, you almost don't have to read the novel.  Mr. Weinstein is quite correct in his concern for the environmental conditions on planet Earth, but I think there are better ways he could have expressed these concerns then in this by the numbers novel.<br />The Enterprise D is called to the planet Thiopa to bring supplies for victims of famine.  When they arrive at Thiopa the crew discovers that everything is not quite as the primary planetary government purported.  <br />Meanwhile Data decides to do a little looking into the planet's environmental concern, and discovers that their food shortages, drought conditions, etc. were caused by the people of Thiopa's own short-sighted rush to attain a technological society.  The crew becomes concerned that even if they do provide assistance to the planet, they will just become extinct within 50 years if they don't change their pollutionary ways.  Of course there is the sticky prime directive to deal with - how much can we tell them without interfering in the planet's natural progress.<br />This story probably would have worked well as a short story.  In Mr. Weinstein's drive to expand the story to a novel, he added a number of stories and characters to expand the story.  These include a race called the Nuarans that basically are annoying, like gnats buzzing around the ear.  He starts to give background stories on some of the people surrounding Lord Stross, the planet's government leader, but then doesn't proceed to do anything with the character or the information.  <br />The story is fast paced and a quick read.  There are some enjoyable moments, such as Worf trying out for Riker's jazz combo.  This is not a bad book, it's just not that interesting.  If you're not a huge Next Generation fan, I'd probably give this story a pass.	2002-03-03
US	52482639	RS5ZNQQ0KCLSN	0671833073	360815410	The Covenant of the Crown (Star Trek, No 4)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Enjoyable Early Trek Novel	This is a fun Star Trek - The Original Series novel, as long as you keep it in perspective.  This was written before there was a Next Generation, and even before The Wrath of Khan Movie.  It was actually written before Star Trek the Motion Picture, but was published after the movie's release.  What this all means is that we are privvy to a lot more Star Trek history and backstories than the author was at the time he wrote this novel.<br />Anyway, to get to the plot.  Captain Kirk's past catches up with him as the King of Shad, that he originally transported into exile years ago, must be returned to his planet to help the Shaddan empire return to its former glory.  The King trusts no one other than Captain Kirk to take him back home.  The reunion between the King and Kirk is bittersweet, as the King is quite old and frail.<br />In order for the King to regain his throne, he must have the Crown of Shad.  The King had put the crown into hiding 18 years ago when he was being sent into exile.  Now the Kings only daughter, Mr. Spock and Dr. McCoy must go to the harsh world that hides the crown to recover this royal relic.<br />There are some very nice character moments between Spock and McCoy as they try to recover the crown and protect the royal princess.  There is also an amusing side story with Chekov.  The one negative thing about the novel is there are a few loose ends - such as a female Klingon - what did they do with her, and another subplot involving the royal retainers.  Otherwise this is a brief, taut and interesting story.  Fans of the original television series will enjoy this book.	2001-12-23
US	52482639	R2T1P5LN6Y1RES	0375402055	201122640	The Sedgemoor Strangler: Sounds Like Murder, Vol. 5	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great for trip entertainment	The local barmaid at the Jellied Eel finds herself in a romance with a dashing rich man, who just may be a serial killer.  This is a deft and gripping mystery by Peter Lovesey, and very nicely read by Barbara Rosenblat.  There are enough twists and clues in this story to keep you engrossed and guessing until the very end.<br />If you like mysteries, especially English mysteries, and are looking for something to occupy your time on a road trip; I recommend this book on tape.  It's perfect for short trips, as it's only 2 hours long.  It keeps you interested, and is nicely presented by Barbara Rosenblat.	2001-12-16
US	52482639	RI4KYBCFS25EF	0451071484	869334119	The Complete Jack the Ripper	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Gritty &amp; Realistic Study of the Ripper Murders	Donald Rumbelow is a former police office.  As such, he writes from a logical, investigative stand-point.  He does not glorify, conspiricize or add to the bizarre aura surrounding these crimes.<br />Mr. Rumbelow begins and ends with the facts of the case.  He gives a terrific background to conditions in Whitechapel in the 1880s, very important to understanding the crimes.  He has gone through police files to pull out the actual records and facts recorded at the time of the records, and he goes through the main suspects and gives the pros and cons of each suspect.<br />Donald Rumbelow also tries to put to rest some of the conspiracies that surround the case (eg. it was not unusual for the police to destroy records as they were not routinely saved until well into the 20th century).  Mr. Rumbelow also puts into perspective forensic science at the time of these murders, for example finger print evidence was only admitted into legal proceedings and became common place 20 years later.  All of this helps us understand some of the reasons that Jack the Ripper was never caught (at least as the Ripper) and why he has not been definitely identified over 100 years later.<br />The book is a bit out of date, however it still has a lot of good information - especially concerning the realities of police work and conditions in the East End in the 1880s.  I would strongly recommend this book as a good starting place for anyone interested in reading about the Ripper killings.  However be forewarned, these are brutal murders described fairly graphically with some photos of the victims.  If you are very squeemish, this isn't the book for you.	2001-12-15
US	52482639	R1B02OBDMCH072	0671746472	544645304	Strike Zone (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 5)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Next Generation does Humor	This is Peter David's first Next Generation book, and it is very enjoyable.  The plot involves a &quot;backwards&quot; race called the Kreel (very reminiscent of the Vogons from Hitchhiker's Guide), who stumble across some extremely powerful technology and weaponry.  The Kreel use this weaponry to terrorize their mortal enemies, the Klingons.  The Federation is asked to mediate between these two races before full scale war erupts, and the Enterprise is chosen to transport representatives from each to the planet of discovery for negotiations.<br />As would be expected there is conflict and posturing by both races along the way, plus the opportunity for some very humorous exchanges.  There is also a secondary plot dealing with Wesley Crusher trying to find a cure for a genectically transmitted disease that's killing one of his friends.  This story line is not played for laughs.<br />As usual with Peter David, the book is well-written, there is a lot of humor in the story and the story moves along at a brisk pace.  This book is significant for a couple of things.  It is the first Next Generation book to deal with Dr. Crusher leaving the ship in the 2nd season, and it is the first book to feature Dr. Pulaski.  While &quot;Survivors&quot; dealt with Tasha's death at the end of the story, this is the first book to have Worf as security chief.  Finally, this is also the first Next Generation book to deal sympathetically with Wesley Crusher, and it gives a better reason for his staying on the Enterprise after his mother has left than any of the 2nd season storylines ever did.<br />As many of the reviewers before have stated the book's ending is a bit of a let-down after the big build-up.  Many of the characters act atypically as well, especially Worf.  However, the bottom line is that this is a very entertaining book and if you enjoy Star Trek the Next Generation, you should find this a fast and fun read.	2001-09-15
US	52482639	R2CH7R6G0PXON9	0312143559	821969595	The Historical Society Murder Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tag Team Mystery Writing	The late Mr. Landrum has written an interesting puzzle regarding the theft of a valuable painting and the murder of a local &quot;character&quot;. The chapters of the book are written by different members of the town of Borderville - Tennessee and Virginia. You will probably enjoy chapters by some of the authors more than others (I personally enjoyed the chapters by Henry Delaporte and Harriet Gardner Bushrow the best), but the charm of the book is the way it fleshes out the interesting community of Borderville. The mystery begins when Helen Delaporte, president of the local historical society discovers that the valuable painting left to the society is a fake, and a recent one at that. Having a million-dollar painting stolen from the society while she is president is too much for Harriet, so she goes to work trying to figure out how and who forged the painting. Shortly after the theft of the million-dollar painting is announced in the local newspaper, musician and friend to local artists, Randy Hartwell is found murdered in his home. Does the murder have anything to do with the theft, or is it merely a crime of passion as the local police believe? Harriet and her friends work to solve this interesting puzzle, giving us an amusing look at the town of Borderville and its residents. The mystery portion of the book is actually a small reason to read this story, much more involving is Borderville and its residents with their quirks, foibles and follies - just like any other small town. A perfect book to enjoy with a nice cup of tea.	2001-08-26
US	52482639	R3F4XQF1ICC9WL	0297771655	741057088	The Celts: The People Who Came Out of the Darkness	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A Good Introduction to the Subject	If you are looking for a good general introduction to the culture of the Celts, this is a good starting place.  The book goes over the few contemporary historical accounts of the Celts (Greek and Roman), a little of the archaeology, the mythology and the art.  <br />Mr. Herm does not attempt to be the final resource on the Celts, but tries to give people an idea of their complex society.  The Celts did not write their own history, so we have to be content with contemporary Greek and Roman writings on their culture.  What they wrote about tells as much about the ancient Greeks and Romans as it does about the Celts.<br />The author tries to define at what point in time we can delineate a Celtic culture, plus he tries to put the Celts into context of other contemporary &quot;barbaric&quot; cultures such as the Scythians and Ilyrians.  There is also a discussion of current (mid 1970s) theories about the origins of the Indo-European cultures, which the Celts belonged to, and where the pre-Indo-European cultures originated.<br />Having said that, there are a few problems with the book.  The chapter about the Atlantean culture being located in the area of Denmark, which is based on the work of one scholar, should be read with a grain of salt.  What few maps there are in the book, don't always do an adequate job of explaining the point the author is trying to make.  <br />My largest complaint is that he spends at least 2 pages describing the Gundestrup Cauldron, an important artifact that shows many of the Celts mythological themes. He spends an inordinate time describing the various scenes taking place on the walls of the vessel, but there is no picture or even a line illustration of these designs.  I personally found this very frustrating.  It just so happened that I have a few books on Celtic mythology, and they have a number of pictures of the Gundestrup Cauldron.  This allowed me to see what he was talking about.  A similar thing happened later in the book when he wasdescribing the Ardagh Chalice.<br />Overall, I found this a good book and enjoyable.  It was a little difficult at first, because the book was translated into English and there were some rather awkward turns of phrase in the first few chapters.  I either became accustomed to this phrasing, or the editor improved over the succeeding chapters.   If you are looking for a slightly scholarly approach to introduce you to the ancient Celts, I recommend this book.  If you just want a quick introduction and a slight taste of the Celts, I recommend you try to find a copy of the &quot;Cut-Throat Celts&quot; which is part of the Horrible Histories series.  I don't know if it's readily available in the U.S., but it should be available on amazon.com.uk	2001-06-19
US	52482639	R148BS3E595DA2	0375401784	859725582	The Case of the Scottish Tragedy: Sounds Like Murder, Vol. I	Books	3	2	2	N	N	4 Stars for Simon Jones - 2 Stars for the Story	June Thomson is obviously a Sherlock Holmes fan.  The story comes off as something written by a fan writing for other fans.  However, that is not necessarily a good thing.<br />The mystery is rather slight.  The appearance of Mycroft Holmes and his dire concerns about the case seem quite unwarranted.  In fact when Holmes and Watson arrive on the scene, they are basically told who the culprit is and there is a very brief journey to uncover proof of this.  The ending is rather anti-climactic.<br />However, Simon Jones does a superb reading of the story.  He is able to give unique voices to his characters and quite brings the story and characters to life.  Mr. Jones is now among one of the actors I will look for when choosing audio books, joining Time Curry and Michael York.<br />In the final analysis, this audiobook makes a decent distraction for a short commute.  It is not gripping, but the performance is strong and worth the listen.	2001-05-27
US	52482639	R3CDW9KNOC6FW0	0425169480	91805765	The Mummy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun!	Max Allan Collins' novelization of the 1999 film &quot;The Mummy&quot; is a lot of fun.  Which is of course what you would expect, since the movie itself was such pure unadulterated fun.<br />It does what most good novelizations do, it fleshes out the characters a little more.  It provides some background information on the characters and storyline.  The novelization is also very helpful for explaining a bit more about the ancient Egyptian ceremony where Imhotep tries to resurrect his dead love, Anck-su-namun.  The novel also focuses on the romance aspect between Evelyn and O'Connell, much more than the movie.<br />If you enjoyed the recent Mummy movie, you would probably enjoy this book.  It's a fun and fast read.  As long as you don't expect anything more from it, you should enjoy this book.	2001-04-28
US	52482639	R285IYF1ELGV7Q	0863695574	252053978	The Prisoner: A Televisionary Masterpiece	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Too Bad It's Out of Print	This is a beautiful guide to the classic television series, The Prisoner.  It is richly illustrated with many color photographs from the series, and its location of Portmeirion, Wales.  It's a terrific vehicle to re-visit the series and learn about what it took to produce this program.  Since A&amp;E is currently re-releasing The Prisoner on VHS and DVD, it is too bad that this book is out of print, since I think viewers would enjoy some of the background that this book provides.<br />At the heart of the book is an in-depth summary of the 17 episodes that make up The Prisoner.  However, it is more than just an episode guide.  The book also contains a brief interview with Patrick McGoohan (circa 1989), a series of essays about the program, a description of Danger Man (McGoohan's secret agent series before The Prisoner), a biography of McGoohan, background on the creation and filming process, information about the real village of Portmeirion, and information about Six of One, the official Prisoner fan club.<br />It's a very informative and fun book written by two fans, who are still able to turn a critical eye on the series.  The essays about the series by various authors are also very enjoyable.  I especially loved the one by Isaac Asimov.  The one negative I have about the book, is that there seemed to be a printing problem with my book.  In the chapter outlining the creation and production of the series, I had one section repeated twice, and another section appears to have been omitted.  In spite of the printing defect, this is a fun book for Prisoner fans, and if you can find a copy I highly recommend it.	2001-04-09
US	52482639	R2J1FX1MJH0Z13	0881846481	361354622	Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy	Books	4	35	44	N	N	Conspiracies Galore	In this book, Jim Marrs tries to present the many theories about the assassination of President Kennedy, no matter how realistic or laughable.  The book tries to cover its topic exhaustively, and gives you an idea of the full gamut of theories about the J.F.K. assassination.<br />Probably the best statement to make about the book is what the author wrote at the beginning of his Preface:  &quot;Do not trust this book.  In fact, when it comes to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, don't trust any one source or even the basic evidence and testimony...&quot;<br />Mr. Marrs begins the book by giving a wide variety of witness statements.  Some of it is contradictory, some of it is very thoughtful, and some of it is plain ludicrous.  While I found this section interesting, I found the fact that he gave equal weight to statements made shortly after the event as he did statements that weren't made until years - sometimes decades - after the assassination.<br />The second part of the book outlines the possible suspects for the crime - giving their means, motives and opportunities.  This was my favorite part of the book.  Not only did he list the possible subjects (Oswald, USSR, Cuba, Mob, CIA, FBI, LBJ, Nixon, etc.) but he gave a brief history of the person or organization.  I found it extremely fascinating to learn about the history of the FBI and J. Edgar Hoover, the formation of the Secret Service,  how their powers evolved, etc.  If I were reviewing the book on this section alone, it probably would have received 5 stars.<br />The third section of the book discusses consequences and occurences after the assassination.  These include the Warren Commission, Ruby killing Oswald, the irregularities around the autopsy records, the Garrison investigation, etc.  This section was interesting and did create a lot of questions.<br />The final section outlines the author, Jim Marrs, hypothesis about what really happened in Dealey Plaza that fateful day.  As I'm sure Mr. Marrs realized, this section is sure to cause a lot of arguments.<br />All in all, Mr. Marrs has created a very interesting and fairly well written book about the Kennedy assassination.  He definitely is in the camp of the conspiracy theorists, but then most people who would read this book are probably also in that camp.  I do have 2 significant problems with the book:  1)  I don't feel that his conclusions presented at the end of the book are supported by the evidence that he provides within the book.  2)  I don't agree with his reasoning for not footnoting within the text.  Mr. Marrs states (in the introduction to the sources and notes section at the back of the book) that he did not want to footnote within the text, because he thought it would impede upon the flow of ideas.  I did not find this statement until I was almost done with the book.  I was very frustrated because there were a number of things that he mentioned in the book that I would like to have looked up the original source - unfortunately, it is very difficult to go back and find the items that I wanted to look up.<br />If you are interested in the J.F.K. assassination, you will probably enjoy this book.  However, keep in mind the author's own warning about trusting this book alone!	2001-03-10
US	52482639	R1Z8ZJQZ9J14KG	0886467268	220248143	No Safety	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An Enjoyable Collection	This is a fun collection of short stories written by Susan Dunlap and Sharyn McCrumb.  It contains 4 stories, and lasts approximately 1 1/2 hours.  Three stories are written by Dunlap and one by McCrumb, so if you're like me and are interested in it because of Sharyn McCrumb be forewarned.<br />The first story, No Safety, is an interesting story about a gun and the inherent danger.  I can't say that the ending was a shock, since it is quite well foreshadowed, but it is still moving.  The second story, the Celestial Buffet, is different because it is more of a morality tale than mystery.  It concerns a recently deceased woman and her journey into the afterlife.  Is she going to heaven or hell, or maybe somewhere else altogether?  <br />The next story, The Luncheon, is the only one by Sharyn McCrumb.  Three women meet for their weekly luncheon.  One of the women is very distracted by something.  Not McCrumb's best effort but solid and enjoyable.  The final story, Ott on a Limb, is kind of a throw-back to the 30s and 40s style of detective story - think Philip Marlowe.  It concerns a shady character and a cop waiting for something on Christmas Eve.<br />This is a nice tape to stick in the car when going on a short trip.  Sharon Gless does a good job reading the stories.  There isn't a lot of depth or characterizations in her delivery, but she really does a splendid job on the Celestial Buffet.  I recommend this for the mystery fan looking for something light and fun for a quick weekend trip.	2000-10-25
US	52482639	R36J1FF9VFJ52G	031218557X	733767293	Confirmation: The Hard Evidence of Aliens Among Us?	Books	2	9	10	N	N	What Hard Evidence?!!	Whitley Strieber continues his series of books about human interaction  with the &quot;visitors&quot;.  This time out, however, he tries to offer  up &quot;proof&quot; of visitation by aliens in the form of videos, letters  and medical evidence.  The result is quite lacking.<br />Let me first state  that I thoroughly enjoyed Mr. Strieber's book, Communion.  This was an  excellent book documenting one man's experience with something real to him.   It offered no definitive answer and was more of a quest for the ever  elusive truth.  With each succesive book about the phenomena that he has  experienced, his interepretations get more far out.  The other main  advantage that Mr. Strieber has over other authors on similar material,  such as Budd Hopkins, is that Mr. Strieber is a professional writer and his  books are very well-written.<br />Back to Confirmation, the first third of the  book discusses video evidence of UFOs.  It would have helped if Mr.  Strieber had given readers some suggestions as to where they might find  copies of the footage he is describing.  (I did see one of the videos he  was descibing on Larry King, so at least that one should be available  somewhere.)  He describes the movements that the UFOs make, and how they  would be difficult to falsify - not impossible, just difficult.  Now  without being able to view the footage, it is very difficult to come to  your own conclusion about the said footage.  It is also very difficult to  evaluate video footage from a written description. (try to imagine  describing one of your favorite action scenes to someone who has never seen  it, but don't tell plot just give descriptions of the movements, their  mental image would probably be much different than the actual footage)<br />My  other complaint/concern about the first section of the book is that Mr.  Strieber is making comments about propulsion and how this particular  movement isn't possible, etc.  While, I firmly believe that he is a very  intelligent man, I've never seen anything to believe that he is a physicist  or an expert on propulsion systems.<br />The next section describes close  encounter experiences from witnesses across the nation.  While very  interesting, since these are mostly taken from letters, and don't have  corroborating testimony or evidence again there is no hard evidence.<br />The  third section of the book is the most interesting, and could have come  closest to providing that all elusive &quot;proof&quot;.  Mr. Strieber  conducted a number of tests to try to find implants that people remember  having inserted into them during their close encounters.  While some very  interesting data was recovered, the results were inconclusive to say the  least.  There is no way of proving that the implants removed from these  people were put in during their alleged encounters.  The materials are not  out of this world, odd, yes but not necessarily from somewhere  else.<br />Finally, I do appreciate what Mr. Strieber was trying to do here  but it just doesn't work.  I think the biggest problem is the title, the  book does not live up to it.  I hope that Mr. Strieber continues his  personal search, but I don't know that I'll continue reading about it.	2000-09-10
US	52482639	RK60PWUFNPOX3	0345418778	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Thrill is Gone	Poor Arthur Dent, all he wanted was a seat upgrade and to find a world where people look something like him (what he really wanted was to go back  to his home planet that had been destroyed to create a hyperspace highway  and live out his life with the woman he loved who had disappeared in a  space-time anomaly).  Instead he discovers he has a teenage daughter that  he had no prior knowledge of and receives an ominous package from Ford  Prefect, so he has to leave his new-found home where his sandwich making  skills are greatly appreciated.  This is as close to a plot that one can  get in Mostly Harmless, the 5th book in the Hitchikers Triology. (If you  have trouble with that concept, then this book is definitely not for  you!)<br />This book is rather slow in getting started, and some of the early  chapters of the book are almost tedious.  I don't know whether I've just  gotten so used to Douglas Adams' tangential storytelling, that it just  doesn't seem as fresh anymore, or whether they really are ho-hum.  I miss  the constant snippets from the Hitchikers Guide to the Galaxy, that were  liberally sprinkled throughout the previous 4 books of the trilogy.  However since there seems to be a problem with the guide and it seems to  have been taken over by some nasty characters, I suppose that could explain  why there aren't excerpts throughout this book.<br />However, once Ford  Prefect starts to figure out that something is going on with the guide, or  perhaps once Douglas Adams figured out what to do with the story, things  really perk up.  The last 1/3 of the book is what actually allowed me to  give the book as high a rating as I did.  If I had rated it on the first  2/3, it would have received a 2 or 3.  As it is, the book really deserves a  3.5 rating.<br />I actually bought this book in hard-back when it originally  was released in 1992, but have only gotten around to reading it now.  (The  reason being is that I read Mr. Adams works infinitely faster than he can  write them, so I try to wait so that I'll have more than one of his books  to read.)  I even went to a book-signing/reading by Douglas Adams at Cal  State Long Beach Fall 1992.  I believe that he read an excerpt from Mostly  Harmless, one of the very amusing bits with Ford Prefect I believe.  However, I do recall that he seemed to spend much more time reading from  Last Chance to See, and this was supposed to be a book tour event for  Mostly Harmless.  I guess I should have figured out that even the author  wasn't that happy about the book, at the time I just figured that he was  taking the opportunity to drum up some business for an excellent but  over-looked book.<br />Anyway, to sum up the book was good, but definitely not  up to the other four books of the trilogy.  If you can muddle your way  through the first 2/3 of the book, you're home free.  If you haven't read  the other Hitchiker books, stay away from this one, it's not the place to  start.<br />Finally, Mr. Adams I enjoy your work even if I do take awhile to  getting around to reading them (see previous comment).  I have to admit  that while I thoroughly enjoy the Hitchiker books, I would love for you to  write another Dirk Gently book.  Having said that, I just want you to write  books that you are proud to have written.  Thanks	2000-08-14
US	52482639	R2CCNLZAF08SU7	0345345282	319189539	Ancient Mysteries	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Frustrating book, possibly deserves 2.5 stars	I picked up this book expecting a good scientific overview of many mysteries of the ancient world.  It covers such interesting topics as megalithic buildings like Stonehenge and the pyramids, biblical mysteries  such as the location of Noah's ark, and curiosities of the New World such  as the location of Vinland. The book started off nicely with a chapter  looking for the location of Atlantis, which gave a good historical and  archaeological argument for placing it at Minoan Crete.  I figured even  though the book is over 20 years old, it would be a good read.<br />I quickly  became disappointed.  For every interesting and well written chapter, there  seems to be one that takes giant leaps of fancy.  It's almost like the  author had a split personality.  The other very annoying thing about the  book is that while it was published in 1978, most of the few resources  listed date to the late 1960s. There are even a number of sources published  in the 50s.  Even for the time it was published many of Mr. Furneaux's  ideas were greatly out-dated.<br />A perfect example is his discussion of the  end of the ancient Mayan civilization.  He would lead you to believe that  the only two people studying the ancient Maya were Eric Thompson and  Sylvanus Morley.  Further, the only works he mentions from them date to the  50s.  There is no mention of such well-respected Maya scholars such as Kent  Flannery, Michael Coe or Tatiana Proskouriakoff to name a few.  They were  all well-published on the Maya by the mid-1970s, if not the late 60s.<br />The  chapter immediately following the discussion of the collapse of the Maya  civilization, is actually an excellent synopsis of the discovery of Lord  Pacal's tomb at Palenque (made famous by von Daniken as proof of ancient  astronauts).  It's this switching back and forth from reasonable scientific  explanation and examination to wild leaps of fancy that make the book so  frustrating.<br />The chapter on the shroud of Turin is very good and current  to 1978, long before the church allowed scientists to take a sample of the  shroud for radio-carbon dating and it was proved to be a medieval forgery.   The chapter on the search for Vinland, the Norse settlement in the New  world, is also quite well done.  However, these chapters are in sharp  contrast to the description of Tiahuanaco in the Bolivian highlands, which  goes so far afield as to encompass the Phoenicians.  Another questionable  chapter covers the fall of the Harrappan civilization in India and  Pakistan.<br />The main problem with the book is that it lacks a point of  view.  In one chapter Mr. Furneaux is sounding like a disciple of Erich von  Daniken, then in the next chapter he is taking Mr. von Daniken and his  followers to task for not providing proof for their wildly speculative  theories.  <br />If you are interested in the topics covered in this book I  recommend you look elsewhere.  Paul Bahn has written many popular  archaeology books that cover some of these same topics, there is also a  book with the same title written in 1999 that seems to have a more solid  scientific footing.  I would even recommend giving some of the various  Time-Life books and series a look.	2000-07-29
US	52482639	R2HEKBAIYT57IP	0440220572	79470924	Voices: Babylon 5, BooK #1	Books	3	18	18	N	N	The first Babylon 5 novel	Voices is the 1st novel based upon the Babylon 5 series.  It is a good novel, but fans of the television series may find it uncharacteristic or possibly a bit annoying.  I tried to remind myself that it was written  early in the series and that many of the plot and character developments  that I was aware of had not yet been explored when this book was  written.<br />The plot concerns the Psi Corp convention being held on Babylon  5 after their original location on Mars is blown up.  During the convention  another bombing takes place and Talia Winters (Babylon 5's resident  commercial telepath) becomes the prime suspect.  Talia manages to escape  from Babylon 5 as she attempts to clear her name.  Talia is a fugitive  being chased by Psi Corp, the military, the police and Michael Garibaldi  (Security Chief on Babylon 5).  Garibaldi is desperate to find her before  any of the other entities, especially Psi Corp, find her.<br />I found the  scenes on Babylon 5 at the start of the novel very good.  There was a lot  of humor, the interaction between Captain Sheridan, Commander Ivanova and  Garibaldi were terrific.  There were also some very humorous parts as  Garibaldi plots to keep the telepaths from Psi Corp visiting Down  Below.<br />However, when the book left the station it got much less  interesting.  The scenes on Earth while important to the plot, were not  very interesting.  Talia's encounter with a tribe of anglos living as  Native Americans in the Native American southwest was sort of interesting,  but not much was done with it.  <br />All in all this is a good book, but not  a great one.  If you've never seen the television series Babylon 5, you may  find it interesting.  If you've seen a few episodes, you'd probably enjoy  the book.  If you are a die-hard fan of the series, you may like it, but  try to remember that it was written early in the series run and don't  expect fully fleshed out characters and situations.	2000-06-11
US	52482639	R14WLM86MLRYWE	0500277508	400642001	Stonehenge Complete, Revised Edition	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Delightful!	This is a terrific book about Stonehenge!  Mr. Chippindale has created a wonderfully informative and readable book about one of the most famous archaeological monuments in the world.  <br />This book takes the famous quote  from Jacquetta Hawkes &quot;Every age has the Stonehenge it deserves and -  desires&quot;, and illustrates it by giving an overview of all the various  paradigms that have been used to explain Stonehenge.  Instead of giving the  reader dreadfully boring and mind-numbing details about Stonehenge and the  research into it, he gives us a brief description of what is physically  there at Stonehenge, then he outlines what each succesive era has thought  of Stonehenge since its &quot;re-descovery&quot; in the 12th century  A.D.<br />All the theories, from Geoffrey of Monmouth and Merlin to the  current fad of UFOs and extraterrestrials are explored.  Mr. Chippindale  lists sources, so that if you are interested in any particular theoretical  perspective you are welcome to explore further.<br />Mr. Chippindale is a  well-respected archaeologist and the editor of one of the pre-eminent  archaeological journals, &quot;Antiquity&quot;.  He does state that he  firmly is in the camp of the archaeologist, as far as explaining the origin  and history of Stonehenge.  However, that does not prevent him from  presenting many of the other competing paradigms of Stonehenge's  origin.<br />The book is richly illustrated throughout with photographs going  back over 100 years, plus drawings and paintings that date back at least to  the 16th century.  The paintings of Stonehenge also help illustrate what  the artist thought of this monument.<br />It was also quite fascinating to  read about the various ideas for &quot;preserving Stonehenge&quot; over the  last 150 years.  There have been many different ideas about how this  monument should be presented, and even now there is controversy about the  way Stonehenge is presented to the public.<br />In this book you get tomeet  many interesting characters who left their mark on Stonehenge and its  interpretation, from John Aubrey, William Cunnington, Inigo Jones, Colin  Renfrew to modern new age researchers.  They and their concepts are all  presented here.<br />I strongly recommend this book as a start for anyone  interested in learning more about Stonehenge.  It is written with a sense  of humor, and in a very readable style.  You can then branch out to read  more in-depth studies of the various theories and paradigms that you are  interested in.	2000-06-11
US	52482639	R2KVZNBM8L4N4G	0553574760	770477763	Death at Buckingham Palace: Her Majesty Investigates	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Delightful Romp!	Canadian Jane Bee is a housemaid in Buckingham Palace, and her friend and fellow Canadian, Robin Tukes dies under mysterious circumstances.  Everyone thinks that Robin has committed suicide, except for Jane and Her Majesty  the Queen.  The Queen decides to have lowly housemaid, Jane keep her ears  and eyes open to discover the truth about Robins's death.  This of course  leads to some interesting and possibly dangerous situations for our plucky  heroine.<br />This is a delightful book.  Author Benison has created an  enjoyable cast of characters and an engaging mystery.  Definitely in the  tradition of Agatha Christie, this book will keep you entertained and  turning the pages to find out what happens next.	2000-03-12
US	52482639	RYFP68YFGC66Z	0809498952	65066965	Vikings: Raiders from the North (Lost Civilizations)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Beautiful Introduction to the Viking Peoples	&quot;Vikings:  Raiders from the North&quot; is a terrific introduction to the culture of the Viking peoples.  It is part of Time-Life's Lost Civilizations series.  This book goes beyond the stereotypical image we  have of the Vikings as rampaging, looting, bellicose pirates to show us the  richness of their society.<br />The book treats you to a brief history of the  Viking world and the archaeology from Viking sites.  This gives you a more  balanced view, as we learn about the farms and crafts that were part of  their world.  Important parts of the book deal with Viking craftsmen such  as ship builders, jewelry makers and wood carvers.<br />As with all Time-Life  books, this one is richly illustrated with color photographs, maps and  illustrations.  These let you see the beauty and intricacy of Viking  craftwork, from their beautiful boats to the delicate personal effects such  as buttons, combs and brooches.  The maps and diagrams of archaeological  sites help you visual what the text is describing.<br />The book is devided  into four sections that outline the rise of Viking culture in present day  Scandinavia; the Viking quests for wealth and glory through continental  Europe and the Near East; the Viking influence on the British Isles; and  the Viking exploration and settlements on Iceland, Greenland and the New  World.  There are also supplemental sections on Viking ship building, the  archaeology of York (Jorvik), the modern search for Vinland and Viking  artwork.<br />The book tries to dispel some of the misconceptions and myths  about Vikings (eg. Vikings never wore horned helmets) while it tries to  give you an idea of the full range of Viking culture.  Most people within  the Viking culture were farmers, and their story is also told within this  book.<br />All in all this is a good introduction to Vikings.  If you want a  fairly balanced account of Viking culture, I recommend this book.  It is  also quite a fast and enjoyable read.	2000-02-19
US	52482639	R1MF78P9NXXP37	0671736531	664452361	The Peacekeepers (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 2)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Entertaining visit with the Enterprise crew	This book is the second in the series of novels based on Star Trek: The Next Generation.  It was written and published during the show's first season, when we were all getting acquainted with this new cast and  crew.<br />The book starts out as a mystery when the Enterprise D encounters  an abandoned spaceship.  While investigating the spaceship, Lt. Geordi  LaForge and Commander Data are transported to a very distant outpost made  by the creators of the spaceship.  <br />They find themselves in a satellite  orbiting a planet that is quite similar to mid-20th century Earth  politically and technologically.  The satellite is being used by one person  to prevent the planet from using nuclear weapons, or to develop space  technology.<br />Geordi and Data try to find a way to get back to the  Enterprise without getting too involved in the conflicts and situation on  this world.  Meanwhile, back on the Enterprise the crew feverishly searches  for LaForge and Data.<br />Not a great book, but much better than the first  Next Generation novel.  It is entertaining once the storyline gets going,  and in general a fun, light read.	2000-01-20
US	52482639	RPMZH9Z6AV4FN	1881532062	829903198	Disneyland of the Gods	Books	3	41	55	N	N	Amusing	Author, John Keel, writes a series of essays on Fortean phenomena, such as strange holes in the ice, things falling from the sky, and UFOs.  The essays are written in a very engaging style and are quite fun to read.   Don't read without a healthy dose of skepticism.<br />As a cataloguer of odd  phenomena (called fortean after researcher Charles Fort), Mr. Keel is quite  exceptional.  However, the leaps of reasoning he uses are quite difficult  to swallow at times.  I especially bridled at his harping on how  &quot;primitive&quot; cave dwellers couldn't have built the many large  megalithic monuments found around the world, such as Stonehenge, the  Pyramids and Easter Island.  <br />These so-called primitives were people,  just as intelligent as us.  These prehistoric peoples were no more  primitive and stupid because they only had stone tools, than I am because I  grew up before the days of cable television and Game Boy.  <br />Looked at  from Mr. Keel's perspective the medieval cathedrals of Europe are amazing,  and certainly couldn't have been built by illiterate people without cranes  and power tools.   However, nobody says that the medieval builders needed  help from beings from another dimension, and that they couldn't possibly  have done that with their level of technology.<br />This book shouldn't be  taken as a research into strange phenomena, since very few references,   checkable dates and locations are provided.  If you think of it as a series  of editorials or opinions by the author, you'd be in much better stead.  If  you're looking for some fun reading, and not &quot;the Truth&quot; I  recommend the book.<br />As a final note, the book is nicely published with  very readable text and nice cover art.  Unfortunately, there are a number  of typos in the book, enough to be quite noticeable.  I just finished  reading another book published by IllumiNet Press and it had the same  problem.  May I suggest that IllumiNet's editors not rely so much on spell  check in the future.	2000-01-19
US	52482639	R1SKIP57G2WTMO	0140136053	55583337	Arthur's Britain: History and Archaeology: A.D. 367-634	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderfully detailed introduction to the topic	This book is a fascinating introduction into the search for the historical Arthur. It covers the various forms of evidence: historical, literary and archaeological; and presents the arguments for and against the existence of a historical Arthur.<br />It was written almost 30 years ago, so parts of it are out-of-date and superceded by subsequent research. In the second edition (1989), Leslie Alcock wrote a supplementary bibliography to the work and addressed the criticism of the work since its publication. I greatly appreciated this, and feel that it was terrific to have more recent research on the topic pointed out to us.<br />As to the book itself, how to describe it. This is a very fascinating, dense and informative introduction into the scholarly research into the search for King Arthur. Instead of an examination of the Arthurian romance, it concentrates on the reality that was 5th and 6th century Britain. <br />We are given the background on what happened after the Romans abandoned Britain. We are given information about the early Christian Church in the British Isles, and the arrival of the Saxons. We are also shown through archaeological evidence the technological and architectural setting of this period of British history.<br />This book covers a lot of territory, and does not attempt to be the ultimate reference for the historical Arthur. Leslie Alcock, in his introduction to Arthur's Britain, states that this book is a preliminary sketch for a vast canvass. I feel that sums up the book admirably. I certainly came away with a much better understanding of the impact of the departure of Rome and the arrival of the Anglo Saxons for the British Isles. <br />A fascinating book, and a must read for someone wanting to know more about the scholarly search for the historical Arthur and not just a review of the romance. The only reason this book received 4 stars instead of 5 is that it is a bit out of date.	1999-12-27
US	52482639	R35NABOWV4PGM4	0804714835	88767555	The Archaeology of California	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Good Introduction to California's Archaeology	This book is an introduction to the archaeology of California for a general audience.  It is written in a clear style that is relatively free of technical jargon.  If you are a non-professional interested in  California's archaeology, I recommend you start here.<br />The book is divided  into four periods:  the Paleo Indian, Archaic, Pacific and Historical.   Within this framework the different geographical regions of the state are  described for each period.  The nice thing about this book is that it also  touches on the historic period in California, which most books on  California's archaeology don't really touch on.<br />The book is richly  illustrated with photos, maps and drawings which excellently augment the  text.  The book also includes seven appendixes on topics ranging from the  history of California archaeology, college and university programs, and  films on California archaeology for the classroom.<br />The biggest negative  is the information contained within the appendixes.  This information was  compiled in the mid-eighties and a lot of the information is now out of  date.  (Ex. contact numbers and names for universities and museums.)   However, if you are a teacher who is having to teach your students about  California's archaeology or just an interested person this is a good place  to start.	1999-12-20
US	52482639	RC9CHE26LJU8F	0671534505	175804366	Rainbow's End	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Great Performance by Tim Curry!	This mystery, another in the installment of books featuring Inspector Richard Jury is quite fascinating.  What could an American woman found dead at Old Sarum, a wealthy British lady found dead at the Tate Gallery in  London and a second English woman found dead at Exeter Cathedral have in  common?  At first glance not much, except that they're all  dead.<br />Inspector Jury discovers connections to New Mexico, and travels  there to discover what else connected these women.  Without giving any more  of the plot away, it's quite an interesting story with a few interesting  twists and turns.<br />Since I listened to the abridged audio cassette, I must  mention Tim Curry's delightful performance.  He gives distinct vocal  characterizations to all the players in the story, and keeps you totally  engrossed in the story.  The only complaint I have is that a secondary  plotline is not abridged very well, and its wrap up leaves a lot to be  desired.	1999-11-28
US	52482639	R2JF5RONKTRTNO	0679437894	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great Book, Good Audio Book	The Andromeda Strain, is a classic novel of biological terror.  I remember reading it and being on the edge of my seat throughout, so I thought it would be fun to listen to the audio on a recent trip.<br />The first tape is  actually kind of boring.  Actor, Chris Noth makes all the characters sound  very much the same during the first tape, which makes it difficult to  follow.  (Especially during the many passages of description)  However,  during the second tape, he seems to find his stride and begins to create  vocal characterizations.<br />It was also amazing to me how much the  technology of the story is outdated, and/or even common place.  The story  is still a classic, and the second half of the tape is very good, you just  need patience for the first one.	1999-11-27
US	52482639	R2M5Q0RBME8LGQ	0435272411	441055186	The Sign of Four (Heinemann Guided Readers)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Delightful Mystery	A classic book, and the second story containing Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson.  Even though it's over 100 years old, it is still very enjoyable  and quite the page-turner.<br />If you enjoy detective stories, or just  mysteries in general, read this book.  This book, more than A Study in  Scarlet, sets the stage for the Holmes and Watson sagas to come.	1999-10-27
US	52482639	R1HHAYQGHI1XGU	0345346335	476835068	Intruders	Books	2	16	25	N	N	Questionable Methods.	Budd Hopkins, has spent many years working with people who feel that they may have been abducted by &quot;aliens&quot;.  During that time he has come to the theory that the &quot;aliens&quot; are using humanity for a  cross-breeding program.  He bases this on similar accounts involving  procedures taking sperm and ova samples from many people in quite different  sections of the country (U.S.A.)<br />I feel that Mr. Hopkins truly wants to  help these people, many of which seem to be suffering from some sort of  anxiety disorder.  I do however, question his strong reliance on hypnosis  to recover these memories.  Many studies recently have shown how easy it is  for someone asking leading questions to a hypnotized person to  inadvertantly imprint false memories.<br />Not the best written book, but  interesting.  I do wish a little more scientific rigor had been followed by  Mr. Hopkins in his investigations.	1999-10-14
US	52482639	RUHE7C8YS1FLR	0714105759	901980547	The Sutton Hoo Ship Burial	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent description of an archaeological investigation	This is an excellent book that describes the investigation into one of the most famous sites in English archaeology.  The Sutton Hoo ship burial is Englands' King Tut.  The book goes into great detail about the original and  subsequent investigations of the burial area in eastern England.<br />If you  are a casual reader interested in a quick read about archaeological  investigations, this book may not be for you.  The book goes into great  detail about the construction of the site, the artifacts and how they were  put back together in the laboratory.  If you are interested in such things,  you will be richly rewarded by this book.<br />I would especially recommend  reading this book before you visit the British Museum in London, where the  rich artifacts from this site are housed.  That way you will have an even  greater appreciation for this site and the artifacts on display.	1999-09-28
US	52482639	R22KCJIJTA8DM8	0500810095	247608916	Celtic Mysteries: The Ancient Religion (Art and Imagination)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Beautiful but superficial	This is a lovely book, with many wonderful plates of celtic art.  However, if you want an in-depth look at the celtic art style and its evolution and meaning, this book is somewhat superficial.<br />The limited text has a  somewhat New Age approach to it, and it does help if you know at least a  bit of celtic mythology and folklore already.  If you are looking for a  richly illustrated book of celtic art, this is the book for you.	1999-08-31
US	52482639	R2E4ZCLC96E6FD	0716713942	442334579	Archaeology: Myth and reality : readings from Scientific American	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Terrific Idea	This short book is a series of articles about archaeology originally published in Scientific American.  The seven articles contained in it deal with:  the Hopewell Moundbuilders, Stonehenge, the Nazca lines, early  Egyptian tombs and the ancient Mexican city of Teotihuacan.  There is also  a wonderful introduction by Jeremy A. Sabloff.  The main purpose for this  volume is to combat the popular pseudoscientific ideas regarding these  sites by authors such as Erich von Daniken.<br />The only negative thing about  this book is that it was published in 1982, and some of the articles  contained date back to the 1950s.  This means that some of them are quite  out of date.  However, if you have a friend or relative who insists that  Stonehenge or the Nazca lines couldn't have been done without  extraterrestrial help, this would be a good volume for them to read.<br />This  would also be interesting to students of archaeology, because a number of  the articles deal with the carbon 14 revolution and the changes that  brought for dating sites in Europe.  Especially fascinating in this regard  is Colin Renfrews article.  It really shows how the invention of absolute  dating methods really changed European prehistory.<br />All in all an  enjoyable read.  I would enjoy seeing a newer version of this perhaps  dealing with how archaeological thought has changed over the 20th century  regarding some of these sites.  In order to fully accomplish a newer volume  of this nature, however it might be better to utilize the internet instead  of actually publishing another book.	1999-08-28
US	52482639	R2WJDAAN9SZKFD	078580997X	65890879	Celtic Myths and Beliefs (Ancient Cultures Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Attractive Book on Celtic Myths	This book is an interesting introduction to Celtic myths and beliefs.  It does not present much in the way of actual Celtic myths, so if that's what you want look elsewhere.  It does however give a good overview of who the  Celts were, an introduction to the major gods and goddesses and mythical  themes of these ancient peoples.<br />Especially interesting is the overview  of how we know what we do about Celtic mythology.  This is quite  fascinating because the Celts did not write down their mythology and much  of it was lost.  The book shows the part that the Romans and Christianity  played in helping us get a peek into this ancient world view.<br />The book is  beautifully illustrated with photographs of ancient Celtic artifacts,  modern paintings based on Celtic themes and photos of sacred places in the  Celtic landscape.  To sum up this is an attractive and interesting little  book for someone wanting an introduction into the world of Celtic myths and  beliefs.	1999-08-10
US	52482639	R3QPPFA3F2GN5C	0345375661	648252017	Revelations	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Thought-provoking	Jacques Vallee continues his fascinating studies into the realm of ufology.  The terrific thing about Dr. Vallee's books, is that he doesn't claim to know &quot;the answer&quot;.  He also encourages you to use your  mind and think about all the claims and truths spouted by most  ufologists.<br />While I might not agree with all of his conclusions, I  appreciate the way that he presents his voluminous data and encourages you  to make up your own mind.  I encourage you to read this book if you're  interested in the ufo phenomenon, and have read books by other authors.   Dr. Vallee's unique way of studying this fascinating phenomenon is  refreshing and very needed in the current climate of &quot;final  truths&quot; about ufos.	1999-07-02
US	52482639	RTKNKA2W9UJU2	0451187652	680223827	A Killing in Real Estate: A Schuyler Ridgway Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another fun romp with Schuyler Ridgeway	Feisty Kentucky realtor, Schuyler Ridgeway, becomes involved in her 3rd murder in less than one year.  This time however, she doesn't become the prime suspect, but perhaps the intended target.  Before she becomes afraid  of her own shadow, Schuyler decides that she has to find out who the  murderer is and  help bring them to justice.<br />Another fun entry in this  series of mysteries.  The usual cast of characters is back, from hunky   Mathias to the crew at Arndoerer realty.  Enjoy this visit to Kentucky.	1999-06-11
US	52482639	R1KSBOSO27MN92	0451184645	328382633	Closing Statement	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Engrossing and fun!	I enjoyed this follow up to &quot;Heir Condition&quot;.  It continues the series with realtor Schuyler Ridgeway, and includes many of the memorable characters from the that book.  The story begins with Schuyler showing a  house to a young couple looking for a starter house, where they discover a  man shot on the floor.<br />Unfortunately for Schuyler, the dying man happens  to be the same one suing her.  Since the police have already decided that  she has the motive and opportunity, so she becomes the prime suspect.  Not  wanting to wait for Louisville's finest to find the real killer, she sets  out to find the murderer herself with boyfriend Mathias in tow.<br />A lot of  fun, with a spunky heroine.  I enjoyed it even more than Heir Condition.	1999-05-28
US	52482639	RUZ76AP50YDG5	0345365011	891623239	Confrontations	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Thought-provoking look at UFO research	Jacques Vallee has produced another thought-provoking book on the U.F.O. phenomena.  This is the second book of his &quot;Alien trilogy&quot;, and it focuses on research methodology.  He is especially concerned about the  lax methods being used to investigate claims of UFO encounters, where few  investigators bother to visit the actual site or interview the witnesses  firsthand.<br />Mr. Vallee again questions the extraterrestrial hypothesis,  and takes fellow ufologists to task for only listing or collecting evidence  that supports their hypothesis.  He is especially concerned about the use  of hypnosis in &quot;abduction&quot; cases, where the hypnotist may be  leading the abductee to report activities that easily fall into the  extraterrestrial survey camp.<br />Mr. Vallee offers no conclusive proof or  definitive answers, just data and information for the reader to peruse and  decide for themselves.  This book is a wake-up call to ufologists to  strengthen their research methods, and improve the current state of  ufology.  Perhaps, they should even re-think the questions being  asked.<br />While I may not personally agree with all of Mr. Vallee's  opinions, I think that he presents a very needed voice of caution and  reason in a field fraught with high emotions.  This book would make a  terrific text for a class on studying paranormal phenomenon, or gather  witness reports.	1999-05-20
US	52482639	R2ZO1BF3SQY246	0451184726	525241185	She Walks These Hills	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A wonderful blend of past and present	Sharyn McCrumb takes us back for another visit to Hamelin, Tennessee with terrific results.  She is able to seamlessly switch back and forth from Katie Wyler's time in the 1790s to the escaped convict's 1960s to present  day.<br />Blending an escaped convict, a deputy in training, a missing baby, a  young woman from 200 years ago and the grad student following her path; Ms  McCrumb creates a delightful story.  As with the rest of the ballad series,  the story is rich with well-developed characters.  You keep turning the  pages to find out what happened to poor Katie 200 years ago, and what will  happen when the convict gets home to a town he no longer recognizes.  It's  very hard to leave the town and its people at the end of the book.<br />The  only negative thing about the book is the graduate student.  While, a very  interesting idea to have a grad student study the plight of this young  woman from 200 years ago, did the student have to be so stupid?  I found  myself getting very annoyed with this one character's cluelessness, and  only found comfort in the fact that at he finally realized his situation.	1999-05-20
US	52482639	R3BYCFJ1SI3AM3	0525939695	878051781	Ballad of Frankie Silver	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fascinating historical mystery	The latest entry in the Ballad series explores the 19th century murder trial of Frankie Silver, with snippets taking place in modern day Tennessee.  This time Ms. McCrumb's inhabitants of Hamelin, Tennessee take  a back seat to the historical murder case of a young woman charged with  murdering her husband and butchering the body to get rid of the  evidence.<br />Unlike one of the previous ballad novels, She Walks these  Hills, this story does not seamlessly go from past to present.  Just when  you are getting interested in Frankie Silver's murder trial, the scene  suddenly shifts back to 1990s Tennessee and Spencer Arrowwood's attempt to  reinvestigate his first murder case.  It also takes a long time to see how  the 2 murders separated by 150 years have any relationship to one  another.<br />In spite of the book's almost split personality, it is quite  interesting and moving story.	1999-05-12
US	52482639	R2ZOSYBUN5N0HE	0425151867	399944420	Acceptable Risk	Books	3	12	15	N	N	A fast read, but slightly implausible.	Robin Cook explores the dangers of drugs used to change human personalities.  Interwoven in this cautionary tale is a young woman's research into her ancestor's role in the Salem witch trials 300 years  earlier.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the information about the Salem witch  trials, and information about the possible cause being contaminated rye.   The heroine's search for her ancestor's involvement in this horrible event,  and the unimpeachable evidence used to convict her were fascinating  reading.<br />The part of the story dealing with the development of a new  psychtropic drug and testing on human subjects was not as engrossing for  me.  I especially found the final result of the people taking the untested  drug to be rather unbelievable.<br />Robin Cook certainly knows how to craft a  medical thriller, and keep his readers turning pages to find out what  happens next.  This book continues that tradition, but it is made just a  little too implausible in this story.	1999-04-30
US	52482639	R29B3K2KJDFS7U	0451403703	558787958	The Hangman's Beautiful Daughter (Onyx)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Characters!	This book is a terrific character study of a small town in East Tennessee.  The mystery element in the book is actually fairly slight, but the strong and believable characters within this book make up for it.  I certainly  felt as if I knew these people, and wondered what happened to them after  the book was over.	1999-04-08
US	52482639	R1HLQ6V2L4778T	0345360028	221556165	Dimensions: A Casebook of Alien Contact	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Makes You Re-think the UFO Phenomena	Another fascinating book by Jacques Vallee.  Dr. Vallee is one of the most original thinkers in the study of UFOs, and this book takes a very different approach than most.  Never content with the &quot;simple&quot;  explanation that UFOs are extraterrestrial visitors from space, Dr. Vallee  expands upon his previous works and presents fascinating evidence to  support his views.<br />This book may not be for everyone.  If you are a  dedicated believer that UFO abductions are proof that aliens from outer  space are visiting our planet, you may want to look elsewhere.  If however,  you are willing to consider other possibilities, and like exploring  different viewpoints you'll want to read this book.<br />Readers of Dr.  Vallee's cult classic &quot;Passport to Magonia&quot; should be forewarned:  the first half of Dimensions will sound very familiar.  Much of the first  half of this book is lifted straight from Magonia.  However, even with that  complaint this is a thought-provoking book, that should make us re-think  our dearly-held assumptions regarding UFOs.	1999-04-08
US	52482639	R2KH8TMIM12DI2	0879755091	276599767	UFO Abductions	Books	4	14	19	N	Y	A compelling book	Philip Klass, one of the leading UFO skeptics, delves into the UFO abduction phenomena with fascinating results.  To quote the back cover, &quot;If you have read Whitley Strieber's Communion or Budd Hopkins's  Intruders, you owe it to yourself to read UFO Abductions.&quot;  Mr Klass  presents the other side of the coin in the abduction phenomena.<br />The book  discusses the claimed experiences of Betty and Barney Hill, Betty  Andreasson, Whitley Strieber and other celebrated abductions.  He also  writes a very cogent chapter on the dangers of using hypnotherapy to unlock  these experiences.<br />After finishing this book, I couldn't help but wonder  what the general consensus about UFO abductions will be in 300 years.  Perhaps our descendants will know these visitors on a first-hand basis, or  maybe they will laugh at our gullibility.  As one of our current theories  about the Salem witch trial concerns contaminated wheat, perhaps future  scientists will decide that over-exposure to MSG or the newsprint used in  the National Enquirer lead to this particular cultural phenomenon.	1999-03-26
US	52482639	RSNUOMPZ6OTWE	1555215734	514031764	An Introduction to: Celtic Mythology	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Beautifully illustrated introduction to Celtic Mythology	This book introduces you to the Celtic world, by presenting a few Celtic myths.  By no means is this an extensive covering of the rich Celtic mythology, but it is a nice introduction.<br />The book is illustrated  throughout with illustrations from Celtic myths, artifacts, archaeological  sites, Celtic manuscripts, etc.  If you want a taste of the Celtic world  and their myths, look for this book.	1999-03-18
US	52482639	R2NMDLM40MFH8U	0964908816	80448814	Haunted Catalina: A History of the Island and Guide to Paranormal Activity	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An enjoyable read	I purchased this book on a visit to Catalina Island, and finished it before our boat returned to the mainland.  It is a very enjoyable read, with wonderful historical photographs to help you picture the situations  they are discussing.<br />It is up to the reader to decide if they believe the  stories presented here.  If you have an open mind and are willing to  entertain the possibility, you will enjoy the book.  The added bonus, is  that you also learn a lot about the history of this charming island.	1999-03-18
US	52482639	R87G089YE33HH	0809237962	399064145	Passport to Magonia: On UFOs, Folklore, and Parallel Worlds	Books	4	13	18	N	N	A Ground-breaking book in its day	It was nice to read the original work, after reading Mr. Vallee's theories put forth in books by Whitley Strieber, Richard L. Thompson and others.  Mr. Vallee's theories about connections between the modern UFO phenomena  and the European fairy lore have become fairly well known over the last 30  years.  Readers familiar with more recent UFO material, may find some of  the material to be quite dated and unreliable.  I think that the author's  preface to this 1993 edition is very helpful in this regard.<br />That having  been said, this book does not strive for answers.  This is a book that  states a question and gives you a lot of data to mull over and make up your  own mind.  If you are willing to read this book with an open mind in the  spirit it was meant, I think that you'll have an enjoyable read.<br />The  appendix of &quot;A Century of UFO Landings&quot; is also woefully out of  date.  It is also not in the easiest format to read.  It took quite a lot  of work to put this together, and according to Mr. Vallee, no one has  improved upon it since the original publication.<br />If you're looking for a  book that deals with the early years of the UFO era, this is certainly one  of the more original.	1999-03-09
US	52482639	R1QAZ5KV9C6QMI	034541215X	291896517	Bimbos of the Death Sun	Books	5	18	19	N	N	I couldn't put this book down!	I thought that Highland Laddie Gone, in Ms. McCrumb's &quot;Elizabeth MacPherson&quot; series was one of the funniest mysteries I'd ever read.  That was until I picked up this book and spent one side-splitting night  reading it.<br />As a person who has attended various science fiction  conventions, I recognized many of the characters in the book.  The  characterizations are too funny and very realistic.  <br />Dr. James Owen Mega  (aka Jay Omega) is an engineering professor at the local college, and the  author of &quot;Bimbos of the Death Sun&quot;, a new science fiction novel.   He is attending his first science fiction convention as a guest author,  and is bewildered to discover that he has literally entered another world.   Guiding Dr. Mega through the world of sci fi fandom is english professor,  Dr. Marion Farley, Emma Peel fan and Dr. Mega's significant other.<br />The  entire convention is thrown into a tailspin when the main guest of honor,  author Appin Dungannon, is found murdered in his hotel room.  Jay and  Marion decide to help the police discover who would kill him.<br />A must for  anyone who has ever attended a science fiction convention.	1999-03-03
US	52482639	RIYKL6P9Q9660	0451181441	454513996	Heir Condition	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Fun Introduction to a New Mystery Heroine	A little slow getting started, but worth the perserverence.  Schuyler Ridgeway, a divorced 40 year-old, inherits a sizeable amount of money from Ephraim Cross, a man she never met.  Unfortunately, the gentleman in  question was murdered which makes her a suspect in his death.<br />The fun  starts when Schuyler tries to convince the dead man's family, lawyer, the  local police, her co-workers, and even her own sons that she never met  Ephraim Cross.  Since she is now prime suspect in the eyes of the police,  Schuyler decides to figure out who the murderer is.  Helping her is Ephraim  Cross's handsome, unmarried son Matthias.  Is he possibly being a bit too  helpful to someone accused of being his father's murder?  Along the way we  get to meet some interesting characters in Louisville, KY.  <br />A fast and  interesting read, but it did take me a while to get used to the author's  style.  Her main character has the somewhat annoying habit to pontificate  (in her mind) during action scenes, which disrupts the flow of the scence.   I'd like to give the next book in the series a try.	1999-02-17
US	52482639	R2O8IS5VBH4G2Q	0553100017	955135084	Prime Cut	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another delicious visit to Aspen Meadow, Colorado!	Goldy the Caterer is back in another fun mystery by Diane Mott Davidson.  Goldy becomes embroiled in yet another mystery in her town of Aspen Meadow, CO., when she discovers the dead body of the unscrupulous contractor that  had made a mess of her kitchen.  She decides she has to solve the mystery  when a dear friend of hers is arrested for the murder and her teacher is  found dead under suspicious circumstances.<br />One of the main ingredients in  this series is the rich background involving Goldy's friends and family.   We get to catch up with best friend Marla, husband Tom, and son Arch.  This  book also features the welcome return of border and vegetarian chef in  training, Julian Teller.  We also discover how Goldy's ex husband (the  Jerk) can still make life difficult for Goldy, even when he's in jail.<br />A  fast and fun read.  Speaking as a museum worker and volunteer, my one  complaint is that the folks involved at the local history museum are just a  little too mellow, and relaxed about what happens at the museum.  As  always, I enjoyed my latest visit to Goldy's kitchen.	1999-02-10
US	52482639	REC33XE2XBHA5	0553574663	192325518	The Grilling Season (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 7)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An enjoyable mystery with catering sleuth Goldy Schulz.	Diane Mott Davidson is back on track with this entry in the Goldy the caterer series.  This time Goldy discovers the dead body of her abusive ex-husband's girlfriend.  Her ex is also the prime suspect.<br />Goldy must  wrestle with her conscience, as she sees an opportunity to finally have the  Jerk (her ex-husband) get his comeuppance, and deals with her son's desire  to prove his father innocent.  Goldy decides to do what she does best, talk  to people and try to discover the truth.	1999-02-03
US	52482639	R1BHBRGD2UCWJG	0449149986	543858246	If I'd Killed Him When I Met Him (Elizabeth MacPherson, Bk 8)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Moving and fun mystery about human relationships	Another visit with Clan MacPherson.  Elizabeth is back in the states mourning Cameron, who is lost at sea, and working as an investigator for her brother's law firm.  <br />Her parent's divorce is final and Elizabeth's  mother has decided to be a political lesbian.  Her brother is handling a  murder case where the wife of a bigamist is accused of murdering her  husband, and also helping a woman marry a dolphin.  Bill MacPherson's law  partner, A.P. Hill, is also handling a murder case where a woman shot her  ex-husband and his new wife in cold blood.<br />Not a particularly restful way  for Elizabeth to deal with the disappearance of her beloved Cameron.  It  does make for some fun and fascinating reading for the audience. It will  also make you think about the relationships in your own life.	1999-02-03
US	52482639	RRXDIM9NSHQUT	0553574639	748241659	The Main Corpse (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 6)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A dark entry in the Goldy series	A dreary and somewhat depressing book, without the fun sparkle of other books in the series.  Even &quot;The Last Suppers&quot;, where Goldy's groom is abducted minutes before their wedding is more cheery than this  book.<br />Perhaps the constant rain and gloom depicted in the story just  pervaded the feel of this book.  Goldy's best friend, Marla, is accused of  murdering her boyfriend and his business partner, because she'd lost so  much money in their financial investments.  It's up to Goldy, The General,  Arch and his new dog Jake the Bloodhound to prove the charge wrong.<br />Not a  bad book, but not quite up to the fun of the other Goldy mysteries.  The  recipes are wonderful as always, and I can't wait until strawberry season  so that I can try the Sugar-snap pea and Strawberry salad.	1999-01-26
US	52482639	R1K2GMBDM0W0ZB	0553572040	642872453	Killer Pancake (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A deliciously light mystery!	This is the 5th book in the Goldy the caterer series.  This time the girlfriend of her beloved assistant and border, Julian Teller, is murdered.  Of course Goldy can't stand by and let Julian suffer, so she pokes her  nose into things and eventually solves a murder.<br />Along the way she deals  with her best friend's heart attack, her vicious ex-husband, her new  husband, a teenage son, demanding clients, the cut throat cosmetic  industry, and animal rights activists.  All while preparing delicious low  fat recipes.  Don't read on an empty stomache.	1999-01-26
US	52482639	RG1K6WHKLXELM	0471076503	39916256	The Casebook of Forensic Detection: How Science Solved 100 of the World's Most Baffling Crimes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating introduction to forensic science	Colin Evans has put together a fascinating collection of crime cases to illustrate the evolution of forensic detection.  Almost all the cases are well written for clarity and reader interest.  I found myself very  impressed with the early pioneers of forensic detection, who had so few  resources but were able to come up with ground-breaking methods that are  still in use today!<br />The only negative I can see with this engrossing  book, is that a couple of the cases were a bit gruesome. Overall, a great  book for anyone interested in how real crimes are solved.	1999-01-09
US	52482639	R2DAPH7HQ9OQ0C	0345384741	187270822	MacPherson's Lament (Elizabeth MacPherson, Bk 7)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Another entry in the Elizabeth MacPherson series.	This is the seventh book in the series about amateur sleuth/forensic anthropologist Elizabeth MacPherson.  While it is an enjoyable read, Elizabeth doesn't appear on the scene until over half-way through the book!   This time the book focuses on Elizabeth's older brother, Bill MacPherson,  who is not as captivating a character as his younger sister or his new law  partner, A.P. Hill.<br />The main story involves Bill as he begins his law  career as a partner in the firm of MacPherson &amp; Hill.  Bill's first  case is to handle his parents divorce.  After dealing with that, he figures  that helping the sweet old ladies at the Home for Confederate Women sell  their house will be a piece of cake.  Unfortunately, Bill ends up getting  charged with fraud, theft, and murdering 8 elderly women.<br />At this point  Bill's younger sister, Elizabeth, returns to Virginia in order to save her  brother's name and career; and try to stop her parent's divorce  proceedings.  Armed with a clue from cousin Geoffrey, Elizabeth rushes  across the south in an effort to locate the Confederate Women and save the  day.<br />This is an enjoyable book, but the charm of the Elizabeth MacPherson  series is the unbridled lunacy and fun as Elizabeth stumbles into trouble  wherever she goes; from her cousin's wedding, to the Scottish games, or an  archaeological dig in the outer Scottish islands.  Unfortunately, in an  effort to branch out the series, Ms. McCrumb decided to focus on another  member of the MacPherson clan.  If she decides to branch out again in the  future, I recommend concentrating on eccentric cousin Geoffrey Chandler!	1999-01-06
US	52482639	R2MKDDM2SU15OI	0963530941	952580562	Alien Identities : Ancient Insights into Modern UFO Phenomena	Books	3	28	29	N	N	Thought provoking, but covers too much	This book is a fascinating comparison of modern UFO phenomena with similar phenomena recorded in the Vedic texts of Ancient India.  Unfortunately, the author tries to cover too much in one volume.<br />The first half of the book  contains an excellent summary of modern UFO and related phenomena.  In the  second half of the book, Mr. Thompson uses his tremendous knowledge of  ancient Vedic texts and shows similarities between the two.  Unfortunately,  in an effort to bolster his arguments, he adds in Celtic folklore and  mythology plus the 1917 events in Fatima, Portugal.  It felt like he didn't  have enough room to fully flesh out his hypotheses.<br />If this book is to be  updated for a 3rd addition, I strongly recommend that a glossary be added.   In the second half of the book, the author repeatedly refers to the various  types of entities refered to within the ancient Indian literature and I had  trouble keeping them straight.  Also, many of the deities could be refered  to by multiple names and it became confusing when a particular deity would  be refered to by 2 different names within consecutive pages (for example a  Christian might refer to Jesus as Jesus Christ or Son of God, etc.).<br />This  is a fascinating book, and I think that Mr. Thompson has a very interesting  point to make.  I recommend this book to people interested in possible  connections between the modern UFO phenomena and ancient mythology and  folklore.  However, if you are unfamiliar with ancient Indian mythology, I  recommend that you keep your own glossary as you read through the 2nd half  of the book.	1999-01-02
US	52482639	RUSRJCBKW84WT	096190884X	457341973	Soiled Doves: Prostitution in the Early West (Women of the West)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Delightful Read!	This book covers the topic of nineteenth century prostitution in the west in a fascinating and respectful manner.  I couldn't put this book down as I read the sometimes moving, sometimes sad and sometimes amusing stories of  these &quot;soiled doves&quot;.  Anne Seagraves paints a vivid picture of  what life was like for these women in the old west.  If you are interested  in women's history, the west, or just human stories get this book!	1998-12-08
US	52482639	R1DSO05V8ZRHKR	0765194023	718383741	U.F.O.: Evaluating the Evidence	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Interesting Overview	This book is an interesting overview of the UFO phenomenon.  I recommend this book for people curious about UFOs, who haven't done extensive reading on the subject.  It primarily focuses on UFO phenomena in the United  States, with a very good section on the U.S. government's official response  to UFOs. <br />Particularly useful is the glossary of terms and institutions  in the back of the book.  It helped me keep all the various government  agencies and projects straight.  Bill Yenne does a very good job of  presenting the evidence and letting the reader decide for themself.  If you  are looking for a good book to introduce you to UFO evidence, I recommend  you start here.	1998-12-03
US	52482639	R2MLKI101HJZPA	0345360362	464809317	Highland Laddie Gone (Elizabeth MacPherson)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A delightful and humorous mystery!	This is the 3rd in the series of Elizabeth MacPherson mysteries, and  definitely one of the funniest.  There is a delightful portrayal of a  Scottish festival and the many participants there.  We also get a view of  this festival through the eyes of real Scot, Cameron Dawson, Elizabeth's  new found enamorata.<br />The story kicks into high gear when the head of Clan  Campbell is found dead.  It also reaches hilarious heights when Elizabeth's  cousin Geoffrey finds himself mixed up in the screwball Scottish Republican  Army, and Cameron is mistaken for a British spy.<br />If you enjoy fast paced  and humorous mysteries, pick up a copy of this book.  You'll probably want  to read the rest of the series once you get started.	1998-09-02
