US	52488459	RICGNZ967DCBU	0060508957	650893399	Bruce Aidells's Complete Book of Pork: A Guide to Buying, Storing, and Cooking the World's Favorite Meat	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	Required for a cook's library	Bruce Aidell is one of my favorite cookbook writers.  Every book he has written has been solid gold in its use and depth of knowledge.  For people who are fans of his _complete meat cookbook_ this is the volume to have.  the first book is a masterwork for those who need to not only cook meat but to understand its background and want to have substantive knowledge on every aspect of it. <br /> <br /> Taking off and enhancing the information found in the pork section he goes truly in depth on the subject of pork.  The section on brining today's industrial pork is well worth the price of the book.  I am pleased to say that he does not repeat anything from his earlier book so you are definitely getting new material. <br /> <br />Aidell is renowned as one of the early members of the northern California cooking scene and is known to some as the chicken sausage king - yes, it is THAT Aidell who sparked the gourmet sausage movement so, trust the man on his meat. <br /> <br />Everyone can cook from this book since it does not use complicated cooking methods and the spices and ingredients are readily available through the supermarket or from a trusted butcher (uncommon cuts like shin or cheek) it is accessable to anyone. <br /> <br />Highest recommendations for the cooking library and for cooks who prepare a great meal.	2005-02-07
US	52488459	R3A10NX519YO4V	0870136291	736316484	Mes Confitures: The Jams and Jellies of Christine Ferber	Books	4	129	133	N	Y	Deceptively Simple	The recipes are very simple. Usually requiring a few steps for small batch jams and preserves. However, it is not for the inexperienced unless they have good back-up books like _Blue Ribbon Preserves_ which explains clearly how to sterilize and prepare jars and focus on a more scientific approach to preserves. <br />  <br /> Ferber provides flavor inspirations and deceptively simple approach. However, there is no explanation in the book for pectin substitution. She relies on either the natural pectin found in the fruit or uses green apple jelly as a pectin base which means you get to make alot of green apple jelly adding a whole set of steps to the jam/jelly process. The book does not explain which fruits have enough natural pectin to set and what level of set. <br />  <br /> If you know what it means to skim the juices already then the simple instructions are enough to work with but if you have no &quot;feel&quot; or previous knowledge of preserves making than the instructions seem skimpy. This is NOT a teaching volume it is an inspirational volume for the experienced preserves person. <br />  <br /> The important thing though is that the flavors are fabulous. Just be sure to read the instructions first and research carefully your subsititutions and also your preserve process or else the simple instructions become too simple. <br />  <br /> Recommended for the collection.	2004-07-29
US	52488459	R1BBWBYKQ9CAA1	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Set-Up for Future Novels	All the criticisms are valid but so are all the positive remarks.  This is indeed the weakest of the three books in the sense that you need to read the first two to make sense of anything at all and yes, there is sex, lots of it, but you did expect that didn't you?<br />This book serves as a set up for the next volumes in the series which would cover Merry's future visits to the Goblin Court and the Seelie Court.  So, for the hardcore fans this book in the series is a must and serves as a bridge to further action.<br />Interesting things for the Merry junkie occur which includes finding the origins of Frost, what name Rhys went by before he lost his powers and a host of other little details that should make the obsessive happy for a time.<br />...<br />I would definitely recommend this volume for the hardcore fan but for the beginner in the series it would be very painful and a little soap opera driven.  It is a sign though that the series will not be ending any time soon.  I would argue that you will be seeing at least two more volumes in the series - taking into consideration the pacing that is occurring in the series.	2004-03-03
US	52488459	R10D74KGGWWPD4	014243714X	523371993	The Tale of Genji: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	48	54	N	N	Good Study Volume	The strength of this translation is the introductory information that provides necessary background of both the text and the world that Genji inhabits. Much more than either the Waley and the Seidensticker versions and the footnotes are copious as well. Which makes this translation good for students and classroom study. I would still recommend Ivan Morris' book, _The World of the Shining Prince_ as supplemental information about Heian Japan but Tyler has provided a very good start with his work including very useful genealogical charts.<br />The illustrations are generous and found throughout the book. Seidensticker had larger illustrations but slightyly less of them whereas Tyler has opted for smaller. One of the flaws of this particular version is the fact that the illustrations are not done as well as the Seidensticker 2 volume set or even the one volume Knopf version. This flaw I place more due to the publisher who has not printed the text as cleanly e.g., ink blots and slight blurring of illustrations and incomplete pressing, as I would have expected.  This flaw is found in the more expensive 2 volume hard back set as well.  Another thing to consider in the paperback version is the the binding is not the best and will not stand to brutal backpack/book bag wear.  <br />The more useful study volume is definitely Tyler's with his chronology, geneaology charts, informative introduction, footnotes, clothing and color background, offices and titles, and summary of poetic allusions. <br />It is a very good addition to the collection but do give a swing through both the Waley and the Seidensticker translations as well.  Waley for the beautiful language (missing various chapeters) and the Seidensticker (obsessively correct).  The rare 19th century partial translation done at Oxford by a Japanese student is a moot issue though interesting for the collection.	2003-12-31
US	52488459	R8C6BMCZA9W7W	0618390995	35278896	The Lord of the Rings: Weapons and Warfare - An Illustrated Guide to the Battles, Armies and Armor of Middle-Earth	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Less Cheese with that Whine	This book is excellent in its detail and approach.  As other reviewers have pointed out there are portions that are part of the conception of Peter Jackson's and not part of the LOTR e.g., the appearance of the Elves at the Battle of the Hornburg/Helm's Deep.  However, for all the incongruities between the written text and the movie this is a great book for those who love the movie and wish to understand the depth of thought involved in crafts and styling of the films.  The design of the films were not random and the book shows in great detail how much deep thought went into each aspect of designing for each race in clothing, theory of historical development and weapons design.<br />One of the flaws of the book, however, is the pixellation of some of the pictures in the book.  An example is the section on the Elven bow with a picture with an Elven warrior which was obviously pulled out of the film but not cleaned up in its resolution.  Otherwise, the conceit of the book that it is an actual historical document of Middle Earth is done well.<br />For hardcore film fans this is a necessary book for the simple reason that there are photos and scenes that are not seen in the films at all and that includes the extended editions and the documentaries.  For Elf freaks. the extra photos of Gil-Galad are a must.  The book also provides back story such as, how the world did Merry and Pippin end up with perfect sized battle garments in Rohan and Gondor.  Further, the history of Middle Earth were incorporated as much as possible including the appendixes so, for the purists there are levels of accuracy that can satisfy.<br />One thing missing was the mithril shirt and a greater discussion of mithril but this is a minor quibble in what I consider one of the best book tie ins available.  There is plenty of original material for the LOTR enthusiast and definitely nice for the collection.<br />Remember, that this is about the movie which happens to incorporate as much of the writtentext as possible but it is not perfectly accurate and some of it is a conceptualization of what these civilizations would have been which, may not meet what the reader's mind eye may have thought.  But then you cannot satisfy everyone.  I liked it, and I have read a good chunk of the canon so for the ultra purists -- you have been warned.  For the movie freaks this book is for you.	2003-12-28
US	52488459	R1S19SGATMX5J7	1579651607	371820827	Bittersweet: Recipes and Tales from a Life in Chocolate	Books	4	8	9	N	N	a great reference	This is one of the best books on chocolate that I have read.  I was impressed by this book due to being the first that I have seen that discusses chocolate in truly great detail and in particular, the chocolates that are available to the average cook at home.<br />The book is miles better than Malgieri's book, _Chocolate_, and the recipes are very doable.<br />However, I highly recommend that you read the complete recipe and the proceeding technical introduction to the particulars of the chapter.  The chocolate notes section to each recipe is invaluable.  It allows the reader/cook much more control than other books who have recipes but do not explain the recipe and how chocolate behaves.<br />The layout is done in a pretty manner and the pictures are done well though, I would have liked more instructive pictures instead of finished product.  The text is in a paragraph style and the ingredient and equipment list is broken out in the beginning of each recipe.<br />This book should be on the shelf of anyone who wants to learn how to work with chocolate in both sweet and savory ways.  It is unique in dealing with grand cru chocolates and provides a very good education on chocolate in its science, craft and art.  It is not, however, a beginner's book, this is a book that you read after you are done with being real flashy and want to have a stripped down, certain elegance in one's chocolate endeavours.<br />For the truffle making fanatics, this book is a required read explaining various types of truffles and their construction.  I believe that this book is truly going to be a classic in its field especially with chocolate taking a more sophisticated place in the kitchen.<br />Highest recommendation for the pastry/dessert library.	2003-12-28
US	52488459	R2M017QECW31P9	1580084192	920218847	The Cheese Board: Collective Works: Bread, Pastry, Cheese, Pizza	Books	4	47	51	N	Y	Generousity of Table and Knowledge	There are two types of generosity that one deals with in regard to cooks, bakers and other culinary artists.  The first is generosity of table where what is put before you food wise reflects time, effort, attention and care.  Memorable meals, hosts and foods all show a generosity of the table.  <br />What is harder to find is generosity of knowledge where a cook will give you their prize techniques, recipes and knowledge for no other reason then to spread knowledge and pleasure though it might dilute their &quot;brand&quot; or mystique.  You know people who never let go of a prize recipe because it is too valuable, too precious; something to be passed on to generations.<br />I am happy to say that this cookbook reflects both kinds of generosity.  The Collective really tries to convey the table type of generosity by providing a lot of blurbs from members and clients.  Trying to give the atmosphere of a cheese shop where you and the seller spend time establishing trust and tasting models one thin cheese slice at a time.<br />This book displays the generosity of knowledge by providing ALL the recipes loved by customers of the Cheeseboard.  I spent a fortune buying the Olive Provolone bread, zampanos and other heady bread goodness that could be bought every time I left home and returned.  When I left Berkeley sometimes I would think back longingly to bread from the cheeseboard during my travels.<br />Now to the technical aspects.  The book is definitely designed for people who have had previous experience with baking though they do show some rudimentary things like the window pane for gluten development.  Still I would say that this book is not for the beginner but someone already comfortable with the bread making process.<br />It is not as technically exhaustive as Silverton's _Breads of La Brea Bakery_ or Rheinhart's _Baker's Apprentice_but it does provide basic ideas and recipes that are used.  <br />Layout --<BR>The layout is not as user friendly as I would like with clear break-out steps so it is highly recommended that you read the recipe before using because the movement of the eye is not broken with subheaders and lines.<br />The color of the paper is cream with use of black and red typography.  It is done as a paperback that with use will become the scratch and sniff type of cookbook easily.  If you bake and collect consider getting two copies because one will get quite a beating.<br />Recipes -<BR>Solid gold for those who know how to bake and have the necessary equipment, like a baking stone.  For those who have no patience to spend DAYS doing a sourdough starter this is not the book for you.  Also, if you are a newbie to baking bread use Reinhardt's _Baker's Apprentice_ as a way better introduction since this book assumes you know what tacky and elastic dough refers to.<br />I recommend this book highly with its anecdotal style, generosity of knowledge for any baking collection especially, a collection specializing in the northern California food revolution.  However, for those just starting the adventure of baking there are way better teaching books.	2003-10-29
US	52488459	R2C42G2KHXC6M3	0688172423	611551547	Tom Douglas' Seattle Kitchen	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Get the Book	It has taken me awhile to write a review for this book due to the fact that I have been testing as many recipes as possible and while in Seattle compared the restaurant version with the home version.  The verdict is:  Get the book.<br />The recipes are very easily done in a standard home kitchen and they are the recipes of the restaurants in question.  If there is a flavor difference it is easily explained by the author such as, the restaurant version of the salmon rub uses smoked paprike (very hard to get) while the home uses the sweet variety.<br />The book reflects a deep love of Seattle and is informative in a chatty way.  I think though, for the Asian food information sections you may want a little more depth with Bruce Cost's book on Asian ingredients.  For the experienced cook this is a great book to have on the shelf showing a fusion of traditional and international influences in the menu.<br />For those looking for soemthing in between a beginner's and a hardcore pro level this book is excellent.  People at my various parties and catering gigs have loved the food prepared from this book and it has achieved the status of favorite on the shelf.  It is approachable in tone, style and technique.  It is also helpful that he provides a supplier section for those hard to get items like kazu.<br />The fish section maybe a no go for some people due to freshness issues but the section on grilling/barbecuing is nice and the dry brine method for roast chicken was very reliable.  All the side dishes were easily done as well with a standard grocery store available.<br />Recommended highly and I look forward to his next work.	2003-09-26
US	52488459	R2TS8FNF6XJ53M	193168605X	691501165	The Action Hero's Handbook: How to Catch a Great White Shark, Perform the Vulcan Nerve Pinch, Track a Fugitive, and Dozens of Other TV and Movie Skills	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Hypnotic	What can one say, but get this book.  Yeah, at first people look at you like you're a weirdo, but soon they are reading over your shoulder and can't stop especially, on the how to establish communication with extraterrestrials (man, now I totally understand Close Encounters of the Third Kind).<br />Be aware that there are some copies of this book that were bound incorrectly so it seems that there are a chunk of pages missing but you find them later on out of sequence.  This could be annoying since you may need some of the misplaced techniques pronto such as, the aforementioned establishing contact with extraterrestrials.<br />It's a cool gift for anyone and it is very informative.  How many books really educuate you on how to do cool things in a simple, straight-forward manner?  At first you may resist but soon you are drawn to it's hypnotic, educating charm.	2003-03-03
US	52488459	R30TUJTXBED4MI	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Not her best	Is it as bad as some people say?  I would only recommend this book for people who are very devoted to the series.  It is definitely not the first book that should be read otherwise, the lack of action and assumptions of previous knowledge become very troublesome.<br />The book is devoted to the romance aspects of the Anita Blake series and has very little of the crime/mystery aspect which will disappoint some people.  Unless you know the previous emotional roller coaster of the previous books 7/8 of this book is just so much unintelligible schlock.  If you do know the previous books then it is not too bad.<br />I can agree with one reviewer who states that the book seems very focused on genitalia and sexuality, but you don't read these books for Puritan values nor without expectations of some heavy sexual scenes.  There is still startling images of gore/vioence that the series is known for but  what is sadly missing though, is alot of the humor that suffused previous works.  Definitely not her best.<br />Some readers may not enjoy the fact that Anita departs from her earlier self and becomes more monstrous, but this has been a development through the series so it is not a great surprise though the level maybe startling.<br />If you are new to the series read the earlier books while this book is for the devoted fan of the series who want to know the course of her romantic life.	2002-02-25
US	52488459	R3EO5Y50FJE3SD	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Tolkien Wanna-Be Meets BDSM	Maybe it was due to being on a very long flight but I found this book disappointing.  The book came highly recommended and so, I had great expectations which were not fulfilled.<br />I am not a newbie to the genre so I can say the following:  the story is very predictable in its cast of characters; poor world building; character development was sporadic throughtout its 800+ pages and a lack of the vital energy and verve that is great fantasy writing.  Also, some may find the characterization of women not very expansive.<br />What does make this book different is the delight of the BDSM chapters with Richard and his female torturer.  That dynamic was unique since Richard is at his most realistic when he begins to love his tormentor and becomes submissive.  Of course, he comes out triumphant at the end and the torturer ends up falling in love with him.  Omnia vincit amor.<br />There are some good parts to the book such as, no dwarves, elves or unicorns though, that could change in the later books and some of the concepts were interesting but they were spread thin in this long book.<br />I would recommend other books in the genre before this series such as, George R.R Martin's superlative Song of Fire and Ice (if you can handle the brutality) or Feist's original Riftwar Saga. Classic series like Lieber's Lankhmar series would be good as well. For a taste of BDSM how can one resist oldies such as, John Norman's Gor series or even Sharon Green's Jalav series though they are not as in depth as Goodkind's scenes. This book is not a keeper on the shelf.	2002-01-09
US	52488459	R1BHGQUJIYD2GW	0886777828	56538478	The Dreaming Tree	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Fairy tale like...	Composed of 2 books, _the Dreamstone_ and the _Tree of Sword and Jewels_ this book has undergone multiple incarnations.  Done in a tone similar to McKillips' _Forgotten Beasts of Eld_ the story has a certain richness that is perfectly contained in two volumes.  The characters probably could have used more detailed development but that is a minor quibble.<br />It is definitely NOT for those who like fast pacing and detailed descriptions of battle so, the traditional sword and sorcery junkie will be left dissatisfied.  On the other hand, for those who like a little more depth to their fantasy suffused with a certain melancholy then this book is for you.  <br />I read this book when I was much younger and found it a bit slow, but after some time have picked it back up and now can appreciate it better.  It is slow but worth the read nonetheless.  Besides, how can one resist a book where Death is an actual character with his own motives and affections?<br />Anyway, if you are into slow melancholy toned Celtic fantasy than this is for you.  Otherwise, you maybe disappointed in this work in which wizards, gory battle scenes and ludicrous love moments are absent.	2002-01-09
US	52488459	R2RPL0J11GXI12	1579652085	582235335	In the Sweet Kitchen: The Definitive Baker's Companion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A very good reference	An essential for the beginning baker or even more experienced hands this book provides not just a list of items or ingredients but clear explanation of the role played by each item.  For the beginning baker it is great with flavour pairing charts that takes the agony of reinventing wheel away and provides definite opinions of ingredients such as, instant yeast (no) to chocolate (minimum 65-70% cacoa liquer for bittersweet).<br />The layout and design is done well though I would have liked to have had a complete recipe index/list and not simply general chapter headings e.g., cakes and tea cakes which then breaks into the individual recipe listings.  The only other niggle I can think of is not providing a recipe for producing one's one almond paste and marzipan, but that is a minor detail.<br />Highly recommended for those who want a reliable, quick reference that has some very good recipes and a good eye for detail.	2002-01-07
US	52488459	RTQM9CJZ0ZLH3	0670030201	523371993	The Tale of Genji (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Very nice indeed	The strength of this translation is the introductory information that provides necessary background of both the text and the world that Genji inhabits.  Much more than either the Waley and the Seidensticker versions and the footnotes are copious as well.  Which makes this translation good for students and classroom study.  I would still recommend Ivan Morris' book, _The World of the Shining Prince_ as supplemental inforamtion about Heian Japan but Tyler has provided a very good start with his work including very useful genealogical charts.<br />The illustrations are generous and found throughout both volumes.  Seidensticker had larger illustrations but slightyly less of them whereas Tyler has opted for smaller.  One of the flaws of this particular version is the fact that the illustrations are not done as well as the Seidensticker 2 volume set or even the one volume Knopf version.  This flaw I place more due to the publisher who has not printed the text as cleanly e.g., ink blots and slight blurring of illustrations and incomplete pressing,  as I would have expected.  <br />The more useful study volume is definitely Tyler's with his chronology, geneaology charts, informative introduction, footnotes, clothing and color background, offices and titles, and summary of poetic allusions.  It is also beautiful in its red plum cloth cover with end pages of lavender (how self referential) and ink line drawings.<br />It is a very good addition to the collection but do give a swing through both the Waley and the Seidensticker translations as well.	2002-01-03
US	52488459	R1J7BWKOL8KHT	1580082688	151232030	The Bread Baker's Apprentice: Mastering the Art of Extraordinary Bread	Books	4	74	78	N	N	Very good	This is the Reinhardt book one must have.  The book still contains his personal anectdotes but not as much as either Brother Juniper's nor Small Town Magic but what it gives up in personal story telling it amply compensates with clear instruction.  This book in conjunction with _Baking with Julia_ and _Breads of the La Brea Bakery_ will make you a very good baker indeed.  All three books have their flaws but when combined give a very complete education short of taking a baking course.<br />The Baker's apprentice gives a clear understanding of how bread works and the 12 stages to develop bread.  Providing information for both the home and professional baker including machine and hand instructions; volume/weight/percentage measures and many pictures it is a very good volume that will be hard to top for the wealth of information.<br />The flaws of the book are minor one being no pictures on how to hand knead which suprised me since he shows how to hand mix.  Also, the chapter of sourdough seemed a bit skimpy which is where I think _Breads of La Brea Bakery_ seemed better.  Further, his contention that starter from another region will become dominated by local yeasts contradicts the work of Ed Wood and his _Sourdoughs from Antiquity_.  A controversial area but one that should not stop you from getting this book and baking.<br />If you are a serious baker or just starting out this volume will be a touchstone.  You will understand bread and how it functions and be able to repeat your success with understanding.<br />Highly recommended	2002-01-03
US	52488459	R35VTFXM4FRPES	9979929308	802960781	The complete sagas of Icelanders, including 49 tales	Books	4	41	44	N	N	You must get this if you are serious about sagas	This set though steep in cost is worth every dime.  All of the Icelandic family sagas are found here translated into English.  Why does it get 4 stars?  Well, first it does not include the Bishop sagas (biskopsogur), King Sagas (Konungsogure) nor the Knight sagas (ridarsogur). So if you are hoping to see something like Jomsviking saga or the Saga of Hralf Kraki you will be disappointed, but you will have the sagas that relate to the families of Iceland including Egil, Njal's, Grettir and so on.  It is unfortunate that a complete set of the Norse sagas can only be found in either Norse or German.  English readers are out of luck unless they have command of those languages.<br />Second, if you want extended essays on the sagas you maybe better served by the Penguin translations which focus on a particular saga's themes and dimensions.  This set has short introductions but no extended essays on par with a study set.  But get this collection because it is translated to the highest quality, in a beautiful 5 volume slipcased set, and it is wonderful addition to any book collector's library.	2002-01-01
US	52488459	RV3GN43JXB1UP	0060192585	999787184	Pleasures of the Vietnamese Table: Recipes and Reminiscences from Vietnam's Best Market Kitchens, Street Cafes, and Home Cooks	Books	4	54	57	N	Y	A good choice...	This book works best for those who have access to very good asian markets and previous experience with Asian cooking otherwise, some of the recipes may be difficult to carry out since substitution of ingredients is not a very good option.<br />Layout --<BR>the layout is done on a matte textured paper.  The ingredient list is done in an orange-brown ink while instructions and other text is done in black ink.  There are informational inset boxes such as, &quot;cooking with claypots&quot;  and &quot;how to enjoy pho at a restaurant&quot;.  Pictures are more decorative and done in a sepia kind of black and white .  There are brushstroke paintings of certain ingredients.<br />I think it would have been better with color photos of ingredients and of the country but that is just my personal preference.<br />Information --<BR>More detailed in its information of ingredients and  it does a great service in that category.  Now, if one is shopping for the various sald herbs listed in the book it may prove difficult since there are only brushstroke painting of said plants.  A marked improvement is listing some brands of ingredients which makes shopping a whole lot easier.  For even more detailed information on ingredients I highly recommendBruce Costs's book on Asian ingredients.<br />Recipes --<BR>These recipes cannot be done without access to a good asian market and also a devotion of time.  Pham has tried to provide recipes that will work in less time and with less fat but if you are going to do &quot;down home&quot; recipes you might as well devote the true amount of time needed otherwise it will taste not quite right.  The recipes are in some instances more aggressive with the spicing than her previous book  (5 spice chicken) and sometimes not (dipping sauces) .  If you have her first book compare the recipes and see which one appeals to you more e.g., pho though there are many recipes that are not in her book it still behooves you to compare if possible.<br />Style --<BR>The book is both a personal memoir and cookbook of recipes.  It tries to provide both a pesonal and cultural context for the recipes.  She did this previously in her last book but she goes to greater lengths in this one.  For those who are not into personal information this is an annoying feature but for others it provides interesting reading.<br />Caution --<BR>Many of the recipes listed are those found in markets and cafes and home so the quantity can be large or the amount of labor involved is more geared to a larger payoff of people helping and eating with you.  Some recipes quite frankly, do not taste good unless cooked in quantity e.g., pho broth.  If you live near good Vietnamese restauarants it might be better to buy the certain dishes than make them at home because of the time constraints.  Also, if you are near Vietnamese stores you might have more convenience  making some dishes with prepared items instead of making from scratch all the time.<br />Overall, I liked the book and thought it a good addition to my collection.  My main fear was that the recipes would be recycled from her earlier book but that was not the case.  <BR>Get her first book if you are just starting on Vietnamese food and do not want too much robust or aggressive flavors and take this book for more background and experience.	2001-11-12
US	52488459	R1GOLE17CQ6J7D	0201624672	423787532	Brother Juniper's Bread Book: Slow-rise As Method And Metaphor	Books	4	84	88	N	Y	Interesting....	This book is wonderful in the sense that it conveys the writer's joy and love of baking and bread.  Some might argue that it is just too touchy feely but for the more thoughtful baker it is a good read.<br />The book is not that geared to the beginning baker unless that beginner is ready to work by 'feel'.  The assumption is made that you know what a dough looks like when it comes together and what the right temperature water and room should be. The book also does not even deal with making breads with heavy duty mixers or bread machines -- this is back to the old fashioned way of doing things where you. have a greater connection to your product.<br />Now, I happen to enjoy this book but I would begin with a better beginner's book like, Baking with Julia before tackling the breads in this book because you will have a better technical understanding.  But once you do the breads of this book you will be amazed and deeply grateful for the generousity of Reinhart for sharing his recipes.  <br />Caution --<BR>If you plan to use a mixer make sure it is a very heavy duty mixer otherwise, your machine will break with heavy, tough doughs like Struan.  I tried the dough with both a KitchenAid and a Magic Mill DLX and both had trouble with Struan. In the end it is best to hand knead the final 10-15 minutes, but you will get quite the workout.<br />Further, I suggest that you read the recipes ahead because the layout is not easy for those into glancing at recipes as they work.  And no, there are no pictures to help the baker.<br />But get this book none the less, because it is a book done with love and is a good addition to the collection.	2001-11-12
US	52488459	R357KIIPM8KUGQ	1580083218	393030699	Lemongrass and Lime: New Vietnamese Cooking	Books	1	35	36	N	N	Just say 'No'	I will give a fair warning and say that the following review is quite harsh, but I will try to be as fair as possible.<br />Okay, on the plus side this book has beautiful photos almost too beautiful to have in a working kitchen.  Some of the pictures are so artful one asks the question of what is the picture's purpose?  For many of the photos are not instructional photos that show techniques or states of the food except as finished product.<br />Design --<br />It is a outsized volume that is perfect for the coffee table but maybe a bit unwieldy in a book holder.  The size I am sure, was determined by the photo layout and not the recipes for they occupy very little space.<br />The layout is of ingredients listed way on the bottom with instructions for the recipe not quite center with the use of a lot of white space and very artistic photos of something that may not be related to the dish.   All thisdone on glossy paper.<br />Problems --<br />Poorly edited:  The book forgets steps in the use of ingredients and has the unique distinction of having an editor who did not bother providing temperature setting equivalents for UK oven markings.  So it is not geared for the American kitchen at all.  What does Mark # mean for your temperature specific oven?  Good guessing is required or a reference.  The writer or editor might have tried to do the simple modification of providing both English and degree settings for the recipes. It shows a lack of care. <br />The Recipes --<br />I will grant that this is supposed to be 'NEW' Vietnamese cuisine but I find the book making way too many changes and tradeoffs to have it termed Vietnamese except in the broadest sense.  An example is the use of butter in recipes e.g., beef and chicken stock.  Also, the recipes may require more than what your average thrifty Vietnamese grandma  might use such as, veal bones and 10 egg whites to clarify the stock.<br />The chicken broth/stock was pretty thin in the making just the use of chicken wingswhich creates a thinner less full broth which may shortchange the strength of broth based dishes.  More traditional recipes would actually use a whole chicken to provide fuller flavor and maximize the thriftiness of having a chicken cooked at the same time for another dish.<br />Vietnamese cooking already has French influences and has chosen and discarded based on what is appropriate so I found it a bit disconcerting that some recipes seem to go very French in technique and then shift to what I term, (fast) cooking where trade-offs are made for unclear reasons.  I guess what I am saying is that the vision of the book and its recipes were unclear.<br />The recipes seem to be a marriage of alot of French technique with some Vietnamese spicing.  But is it THE torch of a new direction in Vietnamese cuisine?  I hope not because it would be robbed of a depth of flavor and boldness of vision.<br />My recommendation is do not get this book if you are a serious cook or even a novice for the recipes are more complicated than the novice needs while the serious cook will gain nothing useful from the volume in either background, technique or flavor that is not already in their repetoire.	2001-11-05
US	52488459	R1706XB2YGCHJA	1557882746	530766058	The Book of Vietnamese Cooking	Books	1	10	10	N	N	decorative but non-functional	This book is decorative in a certain way -- in a kitchen that is not serious in its function nor pursuit of excellence.<br />There are much better books on the market for Vietnamese cuisine to be found on the American book market (Trang, Pham or Routhier).  The steps illustrated are very short-cut in the way they are prepared and the final result is not Vietnamese food that is bold but something that hints at but does not accomplish authenticity.  <br />On par with the Periplus series or even the &lt;Insert name of nation&gt; little cookbooks this is not a book for those building, or researching a library on the flavors of Viet Nam nor its more sublte flavor cultures.  If you want a beautiful cookbook for your table  try _Hot, Sour, Sweet and Salt_ .  But if you want a cookbook that works than try Trang, Pham or Routhier.<br />Do not get this book unless it is on the remainder table and only on a lark.	2001-09-30
US	52488459	R194EEEG49BGSC	0441124232	627844891	Crystal Express	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surpisingly good....	While waiting at a train station I was loaned this book by a friend and soon found myself interested in the stories.  _Crystal Express_ is a wonderful introduction to the work of Bruce Sterling and I found it good enough to actually convince me to try and reread _Schismatrix Plus_.  If you are a fan of the Shaper/Mechanist storyline then you should buy _Schismatrix Plus_ and leave this one behind.  <br />Sterling is actually good in the short story genre whereas, some of his novels may drag a bit and be a bit scanty in character development the stories in this collection hpowever, are quite good in pacing and development.<br />One of the best moments was reading &quot;Flowers of Edo&quot; while on a train to Nara.  The story of Japan's embrace of modern technology and the destruction of its past had a great resonance for me after seeing the hyper buzz of Tokyo.    I felt that Sterling also showed more hope and charm of his romantic nature with &quot;Green Days in Brunei&quot;.<br />The most daring work within a standard narrative format were all the Shaper/Mechanist stories.  The other stories were interesting in ideas and themes, but nothing outside the scope of regular science fiction or fantasy themes found elsewhere.<br />Before slapping heavier works on your plate such as, _Global Head_ or _Disctraction_ pick up this book of his early work when he was learning his craft and was willing to dare a little bit more.	2001-08-08
US	52488459	R18XEPXMSGCE1Q	0864425643	436339735	Lonely Planet Kyoto	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Not quite the book of lies....	Well I just used this book and it is not a bad book but it is not great either.  It was handy however, in identifying me as a tourist and therefore approachable to help.<br />It was called the book of lies by my friend due to the fact that much of the information seemed to be outdated and not overly informative.  An example being that the admission prices were a few hundred off for the museums and also the fact that it did not inform people that major portions of museums would be closed for renovation.  Another incident was the wasted time in trying to apply for a tour of the Imperial Palace and then finding that the office of the Agency involved were closed in other words, the hours were not listed correctly in the guide.  Also, the information that there are at least three seperate tours for various parts of the Imperial Palace compound which you also need to schedule.   These and other things makes one cautious about using the guide for exact information.<br />Though there are many maps they were not done very well and there is no pullout map of the transit system of Kyoto you have to rely on the mappings of the transit system on area maps or simply snag a much more easy to understand map from a hotel such as, the Miyako near Keage station.<br />On the positive side it has a decent food section on how to behave and what the food will be on your trip.  The book also at least mentioned things to look at or do so that a rough idea is given regarding things in the broader sense.<br />Another piece of advice that I would give is that the small town like Himeji are given very little space or description but have much more available than listed in the guide.  <br />I would not rely on this guide exclusively and would suggest another guide in supplement to this book	2001-08-07
US	52488459	R2023F0M2HMHH2	0688146244	606062242	Egyptian Mummies: Unraveling the Secrets of an Ancient Art	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fascinating	This is a wonderful one stop volume on Egyptian mummies.  Detailed and focused on the process of how the Egyptians developed mummification.  The book begins with the memos between Dr. Brier and school administration on performing an actual human mummification on campus and then ends with the teaser that any further information on the modern mummification will be published elsewhere.  <br />For anyone who has a fascination about mortuary practices, Ancient Egyptian history, and paleo-archaeology or even the developoment of Egyptian archaeological practices this book is for you.  Broken down by dynasties Brier carefully provides information about the mummification process through those time periods while giving small doses of Egyptian history.  Brier also has a nice section on the Mummy in movies and popular media which is a nice send off to the previous historical chapters.<br />It is a fascinating introduction and I could not put my copy down.  The writing style is very readable and easy going. The only reason that I give it 4 stars is due to him not providing information on the modern mummifcation that he performed a few years ago.  For further information on that mummification you have to find his article in Archaeology (Jan/Feb. 2001) or articles in the Journal of Physical Anthropology.  After reading those articles I thought a chapter on that mummification would not have been out of place nor of too much strain on resources.<br />For those wanting to start an Egyptology section to their library this would be a fine edition and so would the Oxford history of Ancient Egypt.	2001-07-12
US	52488459	R7DLFBPG3FEO5	068808589X	455787196	Kitchen Redos, Revamps, Remodels, And Replacements: Without Murder, Madness, Suicide, Or Divorce	Books	5	20	20	N	N	This is THE book to get on kitchens	This is the best reference I have found dealing with any aspect of kitchen remodeling or even design.  It is clear and honest in its descriptions and deals with both the advantages and disadvantages with any equipment or design element.  Most design books are about design and not about true functions or use on the part of the user.  Instead of forcing the client to cook with the kitchen of all kitchens the book will allow the client to have the kitchen that they want not the designer.<br />The book also serves as a wake up call for anyone contemplating a new kitchen.  After this book you will not want to rush head long into the project but take it carefully without endangering your personal relationships or wallet.<br />This has been the only design book to cover kitchen design for child safety; universal safety and healthy lifestyle in one place broken down into appropriate categories.  The whole process from desire to completion is covered in this book.  <br />This book is worth it for the section on how to deal with research and dealing with contractors including a very good section on contracts that makes sure that you do not get stung.  The book is beneficial for the client and the contractor for it provides necessary information that makes both their lives easy.<br />Highest recommendations for this book.  It cuts the crap on design and is the reference for anyone in remodelling a kitchen though its general principles  can be applied to anyone contemplating a remodel of any sort.  You can get a lot of pretty design books but this is a book that works.	2001-05-31
US	52488459	R1M1R5O47HEGUU	0394722183	813266729	Masks	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Fabulous...	Fumiko Enchi has a remarkable body of work including short stories, novels and a translation of the _Tale of Genji_ from the Classical Japanese to modern (quite a task that legend speaks of her losing her vision partially to accomplish).<br />This is one of the most amazing novels that I have read.  It is  about the rage of women and to what extraordinary lengths that vengeance and love can call in a woman and in a manner through all women.  The text is imbued with references and imagery from classical literature (Enchi is a classical scholar as was her father)  but not knowing the references  does not detract from the raw power of the text.<br />It is a short work and can be a dense read with some of the subtle references but the unmistakable cold anger that runs through it is markedly different from Enchi's other renowned work, _The Waiting Years_.  The female characters are more dynamic and the male characters not as reprehensible as in her other works  The novel may make some men uncomfortable in reading it since men are a focus of anger and vengeance.<br />If you are familiar with Japanese literature and symbology the work provides an extra layer of meaning from the bare text.  The blurring of real and dream is remiscent of older tale literature and the use of various images such as, Noh masks adds further resonance.  There are no footnotes nor explanatory notes so be prepared for that.<br />It is a pity that not  much of Enchi's work has been translated but if you were to choose _Masks_ and the _Waiting Years_ you will not be disappointed.	2001-05-21
US	52488459	R1KBR1M1NOC43R	0880642505	854142897	Cities in Civilization	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Interesting but where is the rest of the world?	Except for one section on modern Tokyo Hall skips the rest of the world except for Europe and North America.  This is problematic with his grand vision theses dealing with Golden Age cities.  This is puzzling lack of coverage mars what would otherwise be quite a good book.  If Hall can cover Athens in her glory he could spare a few words for Chang' An of Tang China.<br />The book is big and meaty weighing in with 1169 pages (including index).  <br />Large Sections: City as Cultural Crucible; City as Innovative Milieu; Marriage of Art and Technology; Establishment of Urban Order; Union of Art, Technology, and Organization.<br />Cities covered: Paris, London, Manchester, Athens, Rome, Florence, Tokyo, Glasgow, Detroit, Berlin, Los Angeles, Mephis, Bay Area<br />I would recommend this book for western urban history but it's lack of coverage to the rest of urban history in the world makes it necessary to have supplemental material.	2001-05-21
US	52488459	R1M1WKTUX15VCU	0870112961	814934159	Genji Days	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Interesting supplement...	It is interesting to read the diary of someone who is in process of translating a masterpiece such as, _Tale of Genji_.  Truly done in a journal style it is fearless in certain ways --the admission of sexual orientation and desire for pornography being but two of the starling things found in the text.  What is truly interesting is how the author related to the original text of Genji and the Waley translation.  The importance of these things loom large in the diary.   For the hard core Japanese literature buff are the conversations with Kawabata and Mishima who the author knew very personally.<br />What would have been quite fascinating would have been to have written material from various translators of  Genji and their impressions.<br />Seidenstucker is an interesting read on Japanese literature especially for a man who is one of the big translators.  Also, the reaction of a person living through interesting times and observing Japan from post-war to the beginning rise of a world power.<br />Overall, this diary is only interesting for the Japanese literature scholar or those interested in the field.  Siedenstucker is a capable diarist but his is not the stuff of epic or lyrical letters.  It is a dialogue with a text (Genji), it's author (Murasaki) and those who have translated previously (Waley and Enchi).	2001-05-21
US	52488459	RBCVHREMNF3K9	0877453888	436999763	The Dynamics of Medieval Iceland: Political Economy & Literature	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good	I highly recommend this book for someone who wishes to have a greater understanding of social history and economy in medieval Iceland.  Written by an anthropologist it uses a good combination of historical record, written literature (sagas) and anthropological technique to describe the economic conditions of Iceland during this period.<br />It is a very short book but is nice to have for the collection:<br />Chapters include: Production Chiefly Consumption Politics Exchange Kinship, Church, and King Ideology<br />In the conclusion it has a nice justification for the use of the saga as source for social information.	2001-05-09
US	52488459	R2BLXE8OXVWXN5	0141000031	846050314	The Sagas of Icelanders: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	210	216	N	Y	A bargain by any means	For the price offered ($16) this is an amazing bargain.  For the cost of two Penguin translations (2 Sagas) you get 9 sagas and multiple tales.  Speaking as a person that bought the hardback the paperback is not missing anything as far as I can tell by comparing tables of contents.  However, earlier criticisms that it is missing some very classic sagas such as, _Njal's Saga_ though valid should not deter you from getting this book.  I will conjecture that the length of those definitive sagas were too much to put into a one volume collection.<br />Get the book - no shelf should be without the sagas and it is a thrifty choice.<br />The collection  that both the hardback and softback are taken from is a large collection called _Sagas of the Icelanders_ which is about ~$600 so you might also keep that in mind when buying.  By no means is this all the sagas from that massive collection but it is a good survey and there is a good further sources section.<br />For those who are saga junkies be aware that the Sagas of the Icelanders (Islendasogur) is only the Icelandic family sagas and not any of the Bishop Sagas nor Heroic/Mythic Sagas e.g., Saga of Hralf Kraki.  So if you are hoping to score the Saga of Harold or any saga whose action is outside of Iceland or not related to one of the great families look elsewhere.  Also, for saga junkies these translations do not footnote the geneaology of the characters which the Penguin translations usually did.  So you get more of the original feel with &quot;son of...daughter of..&quot;<br />Overall, if you have become enthralled with the sagas or just taking the plunge for the first time this is a very good and economical choice.  Be aware that it is a very thick paperback and not as sturdy as it could be.  But by all means get it.<br />Highly recommended.  If you like this set then get Njal's Saga.	2001-03-24
US	52488459	R3PMRNUGARBWXJ	0520069048	479475619	The Saga of the Volsungs: The Norse Epic of Sigurd the Dragon Slayer	Books	2	53	68	N	N	better choice available	My original review still stands.  I am amending it in the following manner:<br />There are better translations and better introduction volumes.  I would recommend Kaaren Grimstad's translation from the Icelandic text.  It has benefit of being a duo language volume with the old Norse and English translation side by side and the introduction is WAY better than Byock's.  Further, the translation seems smoother and more correct from the Norse.<br />It maybe a little bit difficult to acquire but Grimstad is the volume to work with for both advanced and beginning students of this saga.  It includes genealogy charts and notes.<br />Get Byock used if you can.	2001-02-02
US	52488459	R18584FR5N0QY8	0521402166	386276028	The Cambridge World History of Food (2-Volume Set)	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Not quite all the world	If you are hardcore into food history this book is for you.  The articles are done in a dry academic style but are absolutely full of information.  Folks who are into nutritional or food anthropology will have hours of reading before them.  Be prepared, the articles are long.<br />The food dictionary section is not as detailed as say the Oxford Dictionary of Food but it is still good.<br />The main complaint that may be raised is the fact that there are some foods that are ignored or not given their own specialty article.  I was surprised to see only wine was covered for alcoholic beverages in great detail while a general article on &quot;distilled beverages&quot; covered the rest of the alcohol world.  Folks hoping to find a detailed discussion on beer or other grain based drinks wil have to look elsewhere.<br />Do not expect any recipes.  Instead, you will find academic articles on a variety of topics all related to food.  It is not as comprehensive as one may think but it is very WIDE none the less.  It is a monumental work and deserves a great deal of praise.<br />Highy recommended for the collection, but you will think that there should have been more.  Buy other great reference books as well to round out your collection and your information.	2000-12-07
US	52488459	R2FY35QH6DCW2G	0679409076	705913614	Nancy Silverton's Breads from the La Brea Bakery: Recipes for the Connoisseur	Books	5	78	79	N	N	For the hardcore, the dedicated and the driven	This is an excellent book for those who wish to pursue baking bread armed with technical and practical information in addition to their own yeast starters.<br />I have yet to encounter a book that provides so much information on the making of bread and using of natural yeast starters.  This is not a book for those who expect to do quick breads.  For the person who wants to know how to make artisan breads at home this book is for you.<br />The use of starter yeasts is extensive covering white, rye, and wheat.  The only other book that gives you more information about &quot;creating&quot; starters and sourdough is _World Sourdoughs From Antiquity_ .<br />The design of the book is pretty simple.  Description of ingredients in detail; tools used; yeasts, starters and sourdoughs; recipes which are broken down by which type of starter used.  The recipes themselves are broken into multi-day sections so that the process is more clear.  Example would be the challah which is a 2 day bread.  The steps themselves don't take that long but you learn the value of planning.<br />In essence to get something close to your favorite artisan bread you must spend time and a certain amount of patience.  This book is quite honest about that and does not use shortcuts at the expense of the quality.<br />But what about the bread?  It is good.  Sometimes not as picture perfect but even the &quot;failures&quot; have been tasty.<br />A must for the baker's library.  A wealth of information and interesting recipes too.  Not bad for a book that is 251 pages (not counting sources and index).	2000-10-23
US	52488459	R34NG283BYASCD	0375501932	912874498	Nancy Silverton's Pastries from the La Brea Bakery	Books	4	59	59	N	N	If you love ginger and almonds...	This book loves certain ingredients, gingers and almonds in particular.  If you do not like these two flavors overly much than you might want to hesitate buying the book right away.  For those of you who do love those flavors than this book is for you.  Graced with ginger cakes, ginger cookies and a variety of almond delights mixed with luscious fruit recipes you will be pleased. Not as technically exhaustive as _Breads of the LaBrea Bakery_ this is a nice collection of recipes with some baking tips thrown in.  The Breads book was exhaustive in its detail and devotion to the making of bread whereas, this book is a nice collection that is much less daunting.  All the recipes can be done the same day and are not as painstaking as a multi-day day artisan bread process using starters or special equipment.On the design -- the design is done in pretty font style with a little introduction by Ms. Silverton, list of ingredients and then instructions.  BE SURE to read the instructions all the way through before starting.  The instructions are done in long paragraph style and you can easily lose your place if you are not careful.  The recipes are fun and quite delicious -- try the ginger lemon muffins or the almond chocolate tart.  The sugar levels are not too high, but nothing has been stinted in butter, heavy whipping cream or any of those ingredients that makes baking fun. The ingredients are pretty attainable at any supermarket though I was surprised that she did not give a recipe for almond paste which is an ingredient that she uses in more than one recipe.  She does, however, provide a vendor in almond paste.  Recipes include the use of home made puff pastry, cobblers, rumbles, scones, tarts, cakes and sweets.  These are great treats and her book may make you start investing in more specialized items like cake rings but they are not necessary to enjoy this book.Highly recommended.	2000-10-22
US	52488459	R31ET0QZMH2Y16	1568360290	357399842	The World of the Shining Prince: Court Life in Ancient Japan (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Great Introduction to Heian Japan	Though the book is over 30 years old this is still the best introduction to ancient Heian Japan available in English.  Everything is covered from the politics, religious beliefs, and economic structures of Heian society.  Because it is an introduction it does not go to such detail that it overwhelms, but strikes a good balance for the beginning scholar.<br />The angle of emphasis is from Murasaki Skikibu's _Tale of Genji_ and the height of the culture from the middle of the 10th to the middle 11th century.  Using a mix of textual evidence in works like the Pillow Book, Genji and the Sarashima Diary and scholarly work by Ikeda it is a well documented and well argued work.<br />Morris also deals with various schools of criticism regarding  Genji and its world, including Genji as femenist protest, and whether Genji was really written by Murasaki.<br />Overall, a very good introductory work that will lead one to read deeper in the field.  Highly recommended for those who are starting to read Classic Japanese prose and poetry.  This book will provide you with an understanding of the context and world of a long bygone era.	2000-10-01
US	52488459	R240CNR2F60QO7	0684847396	538974204	The Wisdom of the Chinese Kitchen	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Needed information	This cookbook is not just a list of recipes but an interesting  biographical journey into the interior.  Grace Young writes well about her  family providing a personal context for the recipes that she provides.<br />I  found the information very good indeed.  It is rare to find in one location  certain details about buying produce and items from an asian grocery  store.<br />The section on what the sauces, vegetables and other items that  you can find at the grocers is nice indeed.  Usually you would have had to  buy a book dedicated to this, but Young provides a good section to get you  through.<br />This is my favorite Chinese cookbook so far this year.  I find  material for personal reflection and also, a source for Chinese food  information (almond soup being good for the skin).<br />I agree that Young  could have been more lavish with technique and photos but she did very well  otherwise.  Also, the indexing could have been more detailed, but these are  small quibles.<br />Good stuff.	2000-09-15
US	52488459	R3ECH7Z0RXRWC	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	2	18	24	N	N	Painful....	Let me preface my review by stating that it is a HARD thing to try to  compete or even complement a work as complex as the Dune series..hell, some  have argued that Frank Herbert had a hard time following up on Dune.  Be  that as it may I must say that this book is very disappointing.<br />It is  missing the subtle use of tone and design that Dune contained.  Yes, Dune  was in its broadest outline a medieval tale of a young man coming of age  and wreaking vengeance on those who destroyed his family, but Dune was  complex in the design of the politics, history, potrayal and incorporation  of human theories of economics and religious manipulation.  It is a  masterwork on many levels.<br />What House Atreides misses is immersing the  reader in universe that is very complex with &quot;wheel within  wheels&quot;.  The dialogue was simplistic and the plotting was heavy  handed at times.  I think that worse thing was that I did not recognize the  characters from Dune in their young stage.   Hasimir Fenring is portrayed  has a murderous psychopath and at the end of book is in love with the Bene  Gesserit Margot - quite a disjoint in portrayal.<br />The clearest example of  the writers not absorbing the universe of Dune was the fact that a Bene  Gessrit would believe in Feng Shui!  Imagine my surprise that a feng shui  master was called into designing a birthing center.<br />Overall, if you are a  hardcore Dune fan then read this as a form of discipline and completion.   But be prepared that it is a pale imitation and an odd echo of the Dune  saga.<br />For those new to Dune -- skip this book and go to straight to Dune  by Frank Herbert.	2000-08-31
US	52488459	R13AGHJH83WIBT	0824821874	829050192	A Tale of False Fortunes	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A fine, short piece...	Not as bold and daring as _Masks_ or the _Waiting Years_ it still shows  Enchi's sure command of displaying the tensions between women and her  scholar's knowledge of Japanese literature.<br />It is the simple tale of an  Empress, Teishi, beautiful and serene, being displaced in the political  machinations of Court.  It is a simple story with complex characters  surrounding this almost too perfect figure caught in the tides of politics.   There is no great tension except in the personal thoughts of the  characters because the doom is already known.  <br />This book is geared more  for the reader who is very aware of Japanese literature -- it's  conventions, symbology and style.  If you are a student of the literature  than this novel has a greater resononance.   Due to the fact that Enchi has  done the modern thing of blurring the lines of truth and fantasy while  remianing true to the voice of ancient literature, such as the _The Tale of  Genji_. <br />Enchi in this piece has decided to give voice and greater depth  to the Empress Teishi and show the power politics in Fujiwara Japan.  She  does this by intermixing &quot;commentary&quot; and translated text.  It is  a masterly feat in the Japanese to combine modern Japanese with the courtly  language of 11th century Japan and show a deep knowledge of the Chinese and  Japanese literature of that time.  <br />Enchi provides more rounded male  characters in this novel than in _Masks_ though they still do not come out  very well.  The best that can be said is that the men who love Teishi are  ineffectual while the regent, her political enemy, are spiderlike in their  machinations.<br />Overall, a fine work but for a better introduction to Enchi  her novels _Masks_ and _The Waiting Years_  are better at exploring  explicitly the heart of women in their desires and profound hates.<br />For  the literature scholar it is a fine example of writing that is breaking  convention and yet trying to remain within its rarified framework by  playing between the lines of truth, fantasy and the observor/observed.	2000-08-11
US	52488459	R3B1LY9ZZJ302O	1853267856	627864010	Njal's Saga (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A wonderful tragedy	Njal's saga is my favorite Icelandic saga so far.  After reading Egil's saga and the Laxdaela  Saga, in addition to Njal,  you will be impressed by the full range of nobility, tragic consequences, and just pure plain drama  that living in Viking times provided. <br />I agree with the other reviewers  that the violence can be over the top and the laconic humor during the  worst episodes cause one to blink, but that is the charm of these  sagas.<br />Egil's saga has more poetry and is quite true to the barbaric  nature of the Viking age where life seemed very cheap.  You can't beat a  complex sociopath like Egil (killed for the first time at age 6).  But Njal  offers more complex characters and a range of tragedy through time that  culminates in the death of Njal.  No one is completely good nor evil which  makes for a more realistic setting.<br />Recommended for not just literature  buffs but for the action enthusiast as well.  The writing is blunt and so  is the action.  For Tolkien fans one should read the sagas to see  one the  inspirational sources for the Lord of the Rings.	2000-06-13
US	52488459	R2ALBX6KFIALNU	0941676773	787434083	Vietnamese Cuisine	Books	2	26	35	N	N	Very flawed but full of pictures	The book is bilingual with instructions in both Chinese and English.  Each section is graced with photos of the dishes.<br />The book is flawed for its lack of details such as, time for preparation; and of procedures (either  written or pictorial.  Phrases such as, &quot;Cook chicken until 80%  done&quot; - are not overly instructive.<br />I would not recommend this book  unless one is already familiar with cooking processes, Asian in particular.   It does not give thorough background in either the history of the country  nor dishes.  This book also fails to teach a person on how to cook.  There  is an introducion of ingredients that does have photos but other than that  you are on your own.  IT is a simple repository of *very* modified  recipes.<br />The recipes are not quite right.  An example is the  &quot;vietnamese pancake&quot; or Ban Xeo which only uses wheat flour (try  rice flour and potato starch) or the fact that the frequent sauces used  section is missing caramel (an essential ingredient used in various stewed  and stir fry dishes.  Oh yes, the dipping sauce recipe is WAY off.<br />You  are much better off getting another Vietnamese cookbook to start you off  such as, &quot;Best of Vietnames and Thai Cooking&quot; - Mai Pham which is  an easy introduction to dishes and ingredients though somewhat westernized  (not excessively).  The Lonely Planet food guide to Viet Nam is better than  this book - and that is not a cookbook but a guide to Vietnamese food.  For  the more hardcore go get Corinne Trang's &quot;vietnamese  cooking&quot;.<br />If you are a collector and obsessed about having a  complete collection then get this book but ONLY on a big discount.<br />Not  recommended for beginners and for advanced users it will be disappointing  except as a possible cross reference for dishes.	2000-06-07
US	52488459	R2EK3YLHQSSCB4	0785722467	426484589	Annotated Mona Lisa: A Crash Course in Art History from Prehistoric to Post-Mode	Books	5	128	131	N	N	Excellent from middle school to college	This book is wonderful for several reasons:<br />1) clear and concise; 2) inclusive of the audience; 3) makes art very approachable; 4) places art within its historical context and development; 5) quick reference;<br />I was  exposed to this book after taking various humanities courses and found this  book great.  It does a much better job of making art accessable than books  like Gardner and Janson.  I was impressed that the book covered a variety  of bases without leaving too much out.<br />The tone of the work was inclusive  and allowed anyone with an interest in understanding  methods, techniques,  personalities and history of art to do well towards approaching that goal.   It does not approach art for the few with a rarefied tone nor does it talk  down to the reader.<br />The layout of the pages are done well and have a  decent flow of text and image.  It does not, thank god, go into list  memorization which is the downfall of some compact versions of some  topics.<br />Highly recommended for those who play academic tournaments at the  high school and college levels.  The topics covered and interesting  personal history found in this book will be found at all levels of play.   The pricing of the paperback version will allow people to compete very well  indeed.<br />For home schoolers/educators this book is a good survey  introduction and is portable enough for museum trips.<br />Very few books do  so well with so much material to compress.  Very impressive.  The only  thing I could wish further is a music history version of this work.	2000-05-15
US	52488459	R18BD8900S7RIP	1892123126	773036364	The Vietnamese Cookbook (Capital Lifestyles)	Books	3	56	62	N	Y	Pretty but not essential	Similiar to the Pleriplus book, _The Food of Vietnam_ this book has very nice photography and simple recipes.  It is also pretty small at only 119 pages including index.  This book also shares some of Pleriplus'  flaws:<br />1) Not much background information; 2) Assumption that you know to  cut for tenderness or prepare more difficult things like cleaning shrimp or  squid; 3) Does not expand the knowledge base of cooking technique or theory  for its user; 4) Recipes are modified greatly;<br />The recipes are modified  for faster time preparation.  Which is very advantageous for the beginner  but a purist will definitely NOT be happy with the recipes e.g., pho ba  broth being made with 30 minutes of simmering or the lack of caramel use in  recipes.  The intent of the book is for speed which it admirably  provides.<br />Since Vietnamese cuisine is adventursome in its approach there  is room on the shelf for another book that makes free with the  recipes.<br />The better book to buy is Corinne Trang's _Authentic Vietnamese  Cooking_ whose recipes are sound and provides more interesting reading in  general.  If you are a history/culture junkie then Lonely Planet's World  Food Guide to Vietnam is surprisingly good with a few recipes thrown  in.<br />Overall, a pretty book that provides speed but not much substance for  the hardcore.  It is, however, a nice beginner's book.	2000-05-11
US	52488459	RERU9D1LPR77H	186450028X	491577416	Lonely Planet World Food Vietnam (Lonely Planet World Food Guides)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	fact correction on previous review	the reference to dog meat preperation contrary to Lonely Planet's description is from Robert Templer's _Shadow and Wind: A View of Modern Viet Nam_.	2000-05-09
US	52488459	R3MJZ8MHEQPCCR	186450028X	491577416	Lonely Planet World Food Vietnam (Lonely Planet World Food Guides)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A good companion piece - but not a cookbook on its own	The book is well put together but it is a more chatty version of a food guide.  In its tone and topic it humanizes the Vietnamese via the vehicle of food removing stereotypes. It covers topics that other Vietnamese cookbooks do not cover very much such as, etiquette and placement of items  in a greater meal context.   Which for the traveler and non traveler is a  very good thing.<br />However it is NOT a cookbook though it has some recipes.   It's main focus is to enable you, the traveler, to experience Vietnamese  food on location.  Which this book does very well.<br />I found things  somewhat factually wrong - the dog meat section.  Though it tries to make  you feel better about eating dog meat by saying that the dogs' lives are  happy until their quick death -- certain instances of this are not true.   Look up Temple's book on modern Vietnam _Shadows and Wind_ in describing  how the dogs were beaten to death for tenderizing purposes to celebrate a  New Year meal.  This method may disturb some people but the ancient Romans  practiced similiar methods (see Plutarch's essay on vegetarianism).   Anyway, it is a flaw of fact.<br />This book proves to be a wonderful  companion to other books such as, Trang's _Authentic Vietnamese_.  It  provides, in its small pages,information on modern food, history, and  background information on Vietnam in a compact way that is well written and  succinct.  The photographs and layout are very well done creating a very  pretty book.  In conjunction with _Lonely Planet Vietnam_ it is  indispensable. <br />For the cookbook enthusiast it is a good item for a  collection emphasizing southeast Asian cuisine.  It is a good source for  background information and gives a more modern slant on things.  It is a  companion piece but not the main stay of a Vietnamese cookbook collection  which it was never intended.<br />A good book and MUCH better than the Food of  _insert cuisine here_ Periplus series.  <br />1) compact and succint; 2)  highly informative; 3) maps and amusing anectdotes; 4) good layout and  design; 5) few recipes but recipes are very sound;	2000-05-09
US	52488459	RV6Y5RWUGIZGR	0465017363	801178064	Duel: Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, And The Future Of America	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Multi-layered and informative	I recommend this book for people who enjoy historical narrative writing.  Fleming has done a very good job in portraying the various characters and historical context of which this famous duel between Hamilton and Burr had  taken place.<br />It is also to Fleming's credit that the people are portrayed  as complex characters and not straw men.  I enjoyed learning more about the  familial relationships and politics of the various founders.  Fleming's  prose is simple and he maintains good tension in a story that everyone is  basically familiar with.<br />I agree that with another reviewer that the  potrayal of politics of the time period could be disturbing especially for  those who hold more cherished and idealized views.<br />There is not much in  the way of historical analysis or &quot;what if&quot; but the work gives a  personal texture to what some consider a dry topic, American political  history.<br />All in all a good narrative history that brings early America  with its complexity alive.	2000-05-01
US	52488459	R1IW5EZMMLP9FY	0767903587	844150343	Simply Sensational Desserts: 140 Classics for the Home Baker from New York's Famous Patisserie and Bistro	Books	4	41	48	N	N	Deceptively Simple and nicely photographed	At first I thought this book would be another food porn book --nice pictures, no substance.  Like the world really needs anotherpoundcake recipe.<br />I was surprised that the simple structure andinstructions offered a wealth of possibilities.  for instance using Meyer lemons with the lemon curd recipe.<br />I recommend this book for the following reasons:<br />1) very easy - similiar desserts have more steps and do not come out as well as the ones here; 2) Very nice layout -- care was taken in visual presentation; 3) Recipes are provided in both metric and imperial weights -- guaranteeing sound results; 4) Recipes are done with a minimal amount of fuss, ease of reading and less cluttered; 5) The recipes work.<br />Not a bad combination at all.  Much effort has gone into this book and at first it seems too simple to justify the expenditure but it definitely deserves a place on the shelf. Granted, there are hundreds of poundcake recipes out there but none so simple and allows for a certain understated elegance.  You could get a dessert book that provides show stoppers that cause people to oohh and ahhh on the visual level but it is all in the taste. Now the the stuff here will not get you the ooohhh and ahhh but it will get you a &quot;yum&quot; or two.  END	2000-04-11
US	52488459	R2Y7EZMGCCNE07	0385490623	181024150	What are the Seven Wonders of the World?: And 100 Other Great Cultural Lists--Fully Explicated	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Addicted to knowledge?  Get your hit now!	An excellent resource for the knowledge hound and academic question writer.<br />I was hesitant at first about the list concept -- too much almanac, not enough depth, but I am glad to say that those fears were  unfounded.  This book provides an ecellent one source guide for a variety  of fields.<br />It is more accurate and fact checked than the Bathroom Books  and is written well.<br />I put this book on par with Panati's series of books  though Panati covers less 'academic' material e.g., invention of the flush  toilet than this book.<br />They both share clear, pithy writing and in the  world of reference books that is *very* nice.<br />I would also recommend this  book for people who travel and want doses of information in easy to digest  chunks.  This one of those books that will make you feel that you were not  wasting your time waiting in line or at the airport.<br />It is fun, wonderful  resource and if you are into academic competitions this is a definite must  have.<br />For the coach who wants his students not to just memorize but  actually understand the information this is a great resource.  For the  student player I would say that every topic in this book will pop up in a  tournament from high school through Masters level play.<br />Did I mention  that this is a very affordable book even at retail?  I usually avoid paying  retail for anything but this book got me to veer a bit.	2000-03-29
US	52488459	R66XQ77WE8IP1	0395945135	41494634	The Best American Sports Writing of the Century	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pleasing even to a non-sports person	The selection are excellent (they'd have to be for best writing of the century).  The essays show a love of sports but also deeper meditations on the art of writing, as well as society.  Endless amounts of ink have been  used in describing seasons' worth of stats and hyperbole but it is the  quiet nature of the essay that allows a deeper glimpse behind the stats or  beyond the glare of the media. The essays on DiMaggio and Williams are  examples of showing life after baseball and at the same time the influence  of these men on the sport.<br />The only drawback I saw to the book was no  information about the writers themselves.  I am looking through the prism  of a writer -- catching facets of light and form.  Through the writer I am  seeing someone who is seen by millions.  I can speculate on the writer or  if the writer is upfront about their views of the person but the writer is  a mystery at the same time they are revealing the mystery of the sport or  sportsmen.<br />I would recommend this book not only for the lover of sports  but also to anyone who appreciates good writing in general.  As a newbie to  reading sportwriting it was a very welcome introduction.	2000-03-15
US	52488459	R1SOK4YN0IV8LB	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Good but Fails Female Characters	Hmm..Seems that my review was lost so here I go piecing together what I remember.<br />First, the novel is good.  Think of it as Eco's _foucault's Pendulum_ meets _Treasure Island_ on benzedrine.<br />The handling of the  complex plot was done well.  The tone was not as breezy as _Zodiac_ and  more reminiescent of _Snow Crash_.  Defintely for the geek and in  particular, a techno geek who will find that the book has a high  &quot;cool&quot; quotient.  Some things will be lost if you are not part of  that circle familiar with terms and technology.  For those who are there  are some very funny moments.<br />Now on to the unpleasant part.  I was sorely  disappointed that the female characters got very short shrift.  I had high  expectations because _Diamond Age_  surprised me by having complex female  and male characters.  Stephenson has consistently improved his writing and  ability to handle characters. Unfortunately, in this book he has lurched  back to female developement level of _Zodiac_.<br />My evidence is as  follows:<br />Amy Shaftoe (tough, but tender love object) Glory (Lost love)  Charlene (hostile, academic girlfriend) Mary Waterhouse (ineffectual wife  not concerned with everyday matters) Julietta (Finnish gun toting femme  fatale) Assorted hookers and nameless rape victims; oh yes one Waterhouse  aunt (Nina) and Virginia Howard (Devotees of Elmer Bolstrood  furniture);<br />The dialogue of the women were very limited and what was  there did not serve them very well.  The characters end up being very flat  and only as complements to the men.  Never as individual characters with  unique voices or thoughts.<br />Since Stephenson has decided to take the risky  path of sequels I hope that he will have better development of female  characters.  Otherwise, I will actually consider the Cryptonomicon as a  decline in character development<br />In essence it is Fun but not too deep.	2000-02-16
US	52488459	R1LNKXBYES5GG1	9625933948	538686453	The Food of Vietnam: Authentic Recipes from the Heart of Indochina	Books	3	30	31	N	N	Pretty..but is not a must have	It has pretty pictures and some chatty writing but I would not consider it a must have on the shelf of Vietnamese cooking.  Though it is better than alot of Vietnamese cookbooks I have come across.<br />Flaws include:<br />1)  Assumption of knowledge of meat preparation including how to clean squid  and cutting for tenderness;<br />2)  Does not prepare reader fully when recipe  is longer than 15 minutes.  Yes indeed it will take more than 15, matter of  fact, it will approach an hour or so (yipes);<br />3)  Some recipes especially  stocks are westernized excessively (celery! no star anise);<br />The section  on pickles though is good.  So are the  pictures dealing with  ingredients.<br />Get this pupster on a discount not at full retail.  It is  good as a supplement but it is not a desert island classic.	2000-01-05
US	52488459	R3ZR52XBCK5OL	0684864444	74399271	Authentic Vietnamese Cooking: Food from a Family Table	Books	4	103	107	N	N	Very Good but not definitive	I collect Vietnamese cookbooks and so found this cookbook very valuable:<br />1 - the recipes are relatively authentic; 2 - very easy to understand<br />This and Pham's _Best of Vietnamese and Thai Cooking_ should  be the references bought though Routhier's _Foods of Viet Nam_ is  considered a standard.<br />Pham's recipes are more westernized but background  information is good and recipes are sound.<br />I have yet to track down  independent publications from Australia but I would say this comes closest  to the recipes garnered from personal interviews with Vietnamese home  cooks.<br />Vietnamese cooking allows variation making room for available  ingredients and influences (it is the best of fusion).  So if the Trang  recipe does not resemble the very traditional recipes of family it still  contains the basic outline.<br />You will encounter recipes usually not  covered such as pork pate and other delicacies.   <br />I was also impressed  that Trang decided to discuss exotic meats including dog.  Usually  Vietnamese and Asian cookbooks in general avoid the topic completely but   Trang decided to confront the issue (bravo).  Trang is quite correct that  eating of certain exotic meats is restricted to males (aphrodisiacs) and  interviews with Vietnamese cooks confirm this.<br />An essential reference for  Vietnamese cookbooks but keep in mind that the home recipes are still  varied and that this it is not an exhaustive source book.<br />Another thing  to keep in mind that this book does not cover in great detail techniques  regarding preparation of meats (asumption is made that you already know to  slice against the grain for beef)<br />The most glaring flaw of meat  preparation and options is demonstrated in the pho ba recipe which does  mention the use of tendon but not its preparation.  It skips tripe as well.   Discusses condiments as sidebar but does not tell you what condiments to  use with pho (hoisin, chili paste, nouc mam, lemon wedges).<br />A good recipesource but not definitive in technique.  I would have on hand a book  devoted to  Asian preparation practice in conjunction with this  book.<br />Overall, the best available American books for a Vietnamese  collection are this book, Pham's _Best of Vietnamese and Thai Cooking_ and  Nicole Routhier's _Foods of Viet Name_ or _The Best of Nicole Routhier_.  <br />Recommended but not definitive.	2000-01-05
US	52488459	RCRZC4LRE4NCQ	0395904927	422519769	The Complete Meat Cookbook: A Juicy and Authoritative Guide to Selecting, Seasoning, and Cooking Today's Beef, Pork, Lamb, and Veal	Books	5	61	64	N	N	An essential reference	This book is worth every dime.  It stands next to Madison's _Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone_.  I have yet to come across a recipe that has failed me.<br />The information is clear and concise.  The only flaw I would argue is  that the recipes are not all pure basic recipes but use ingredients that  the average cook of 30 years ago would not necessarily have possessed e.g.,  zinfandel.  But if you read the information correctly a cook can figure out  the basics by either reverse engineering or just plain doing (an assumption  is made that you know it is okay to salt and pepper the meat).<br />The pot  roast recipe alone is worth it and so is the knowledge of brining.<br />My  only wish is that they, the authors, do a poultry book.<br />Speaking as a  person who eats at the California Culinary Institute often I would argue  that the meat recipes are better than at the academy.  Once you read this  book you will have a very discerning knowledge of meat at home and  professionally.<br />Highly recommended.	1999-12-27
US	52488459	R3BF4WFJB3HES0	0553573314	199085075	The Diamond Age	Books	4	7	8	N	N	I am pleasantly surprised	I was very pleased to see an author improve through time and work.  Zodiac was fun (not too deep but fun), while Snowcrash was fine (fun again, but not too deep).  Diamond Age is a leap and a homage to the Victorian school  of science fiction as exemplified by Gibson and Sterling's _the Analytical  Machine_ and other works.<br />Stephenson handles female characters well and  that  is something to be proud of in a genre that has not been favourable  towards complex female portrayals.<br />I am further pleased that Stephenson  has not fallen into the sequel trap but continued to explore other areas.   I am one of those readers who always years to visit again worlds and  locations e.g., Earthclan/Uplift saga but understand the need to step away  (that is life).<br />I would definitely take this book with me travelling and  would definitely read it again.  A fine work and good contribution to the  field.	1999-12-27
US	52488459	R2P85166XZ2BZ7	0767900146	556848636	Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone	Books	4	17	18	N	N	This is not food porn...	An excellent reference.  The book exemplifies the California expression of cuisine which is pretty naked.  If you believe the sauce is king this is not the book for you.  It's spirit is simple and so are the recipes but it  is an excellent one stop reference.<br />I have been very pleased by the book  and admire the fact that it sticks to basics.  Nothing annoys more than  recipe books heavy on pretty pictures but skimpy on recipes or worse yet,  the recipes are lifted.<br />Highly recommended as a reference and an  emergency source for inspiration.	1999-12-27
US	52488459	R23IQU2SD9ZUFK	038542339X	207889229	The Art of the Personal Essay: An Anthology from the Classical Era to the Present	Books	5	48	52	N	N	Best Anthology on the Market for Personal Essays	A book that has travelled with me for years and well worth all the space in my limited luggage space.  I would definitely take this book to a desert island and it would be a book that I would grab off its shelf if my house  was on fire.<br />Time has made me appreciate the voices contained within its  cover greatly.	1999-10-18
US	52488459	RV8SZKOXSPGP6	0060951184	434470348	The Secrets of Jesuit Breadmaking	Books	5	31	33	N	N	It works - 'nuff said	This book is modest in cover, quality of paper  and method of baking but it has the best practical recipes for baking that I have come across.  It does not excessively embellish nor waste the reader/baker's time.<br />My copy  is marred with the stains of various flours, doughs, and oils from all the  baking that I do from this book. I am pleased to say that the book shows a  greater love than all my glossier books that sit on the shelf and are  simply food porn (nice pictures but substance lacking).	1999-08-10
