US	52489456	RMVYNEAM6GCE	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Maddening, Conflicting, Brilliant Book	I am listening to the awesome Irish band Afro Celt Sound System's latest CD \\"Anatomic\\" while writing this review of one of Ireland's premier writers - Maeve Binchy's Tara Road and together they complement each other so beautifully.   <br /> <br />This book rips your heart out.  The cast of characters involved in such immense betrayals nearly overwhelms you.  There is nothing sacrosanct in this story of deceitful marriages and friendships. It brings to the table the changes in the 80s and 90s in Dublin and the problems of how common lying has become in their society and how it leads to so many social problems involving teenage pregnancies, illicit love affairs, drug addicted and alcoholic brutes and losers, etc.  <br /> <br />Then there are the nosey neighbors and families that enable and foster the frank stupidity of the main cast of characters, Danny, Ria, Gertie, Barney and the rest. At times it felt like everyone had a bag on their head in denial. Ria's stupidity was clearly reflected in her stupid kid Brian's behavior. Someone should have stuffed a sock in his mouth everytime he opened it. Between her waterpot emotionality and her clinging dependency there was little room to like anything about her.  Danny was a total loser and he still hadn't learned a thing at story's end.  Nor had Barney. You could just imagine them rolling on to the next grift.  <br />  <br />Some of the Irish cloistered societal mores described in this story are very unappealing to some of us more free wheeling American readers.  I for one could never tolerate living in such a suffocating place where everyone lives in your pocket with their noses up your nevermind. That said, the story is brilliant even if it is just plain maddening at times.  <br /> <br />I love Maeve Binchy and am sorry that she has retired now.  She brings to the table a gift that is unlike any other writer that I have ever read.  She is never vulgar or sexually explicit in her stories like Stephanie Laurens, Jane Feather or Nora Roberts among others, and she addresses that aspect of life in a very refined and realistic way.  <br /> <br />Check out the Afro Celt Sound System CDs of Irish music. They bring you right to Ireland through lush original Irish music as clearly as Maeve Binchy does through her writing.  Brilliant, Brilliant, Brilliant.	2005-10-07
US	52489456	R2HM580WEMN7LX	0451203771	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful story, excellent character portrayal.	What were those negative reviewers reading?  This is a wonderfully warm book filled with rich characterizations.  They are in NO way one dimensional.  How mean and ignorant to say that they are! <br />Maeve Binchy has been a favorite of mine like countless others for years and years.  I am saddened to read that she has retired from writing her amazing stories.  <br /> <br />There were times in this story when I wanted to clock clueless Neil with a major ballbat to wake him up out of his self absorbed, narcissistic \\"all about me\\" space.  Then I wanted to whack the rear ends of the ghastly brats Simon and Maud and murder that vile Walter Mitchell and that whole dysfunctional family.    <br /> <br />Hannah was a total harridan who had her teeth pulled by Cathy. Jock, her nutless wonder husband was well drawn as a self absorbed skirt chaser. I loved Geraldine's free spirited life and her non conformity to societal mores.  You go girl. The story of Shona and James was very powerful and heartrending in the statement it made about fostering kids that are later returned to their dysfunctional biological family. <br /> <br />It was good that the very decent and worthy Tom Feather allowed the dimwitted and pathetic Marcella, who wh**ed herself to gain a career in modeling, to make her own choices even though it broke his heart. He was too classy by half for her. Muttie and Lizzie were very real, solid and loveable people. I could feel their struggles since Maeve wrote them so vividly.   <br /> <br />I also liked the \\"class\\" issue that still haunts some European countries.  As an American it is an issue we don't confront routinely.  It made the story even more poignant.  Bravo Maeve, we will surely miss you lassie. <br /> <br />	2005-09-20
US	52489456	RE6R1XYZTGJPO	0425204189	55533213	Survivor in Death	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Thank Heavens, no babies!!!	This is the best book so far.  Nora has gotten rid of Feeney's   rattling nut candies in a bag, and much of Mavis' irritating over the top shenanigans.  I think Eve is much more professional and less of a walking wounded character that has been done to death in the previous 19 books. I hope that she will let that story element fade away altogether.    I have to disagree with other reviewers who want Eve and Roarke to have a kid. I am repelled by the idiotic dialogs of the adults in a story, who get gooey over pregnancies and babies and  little kids who say \\"Nuh uh!\\" in response to every question that populate her romance novels. Leave it for that genre.      It is refreshing to see a female character who does not want kids.  Not every woman in the world has those nesting instincts, believe me. As a therapist, I have seen enough people who can't stand parenting, hate their kids and wish they never had gone down that road.  Thankfully, Nora has cut us some slack on this issue in her detective stories.     I love Eve's relationship with Roarke in this specific story. It is much more mature and thoughtful. Even her gratuitous sex scenes with Roarke are classier. Eve is less blundering, albeit she is still is as raw and crude as a street person. I like that element a lot because it is real.  I also like that she is growing into maturity, dealing with her harsh and punitive self concept while retaining honed edge to take down the bad guys.     Personally, I would love to see the author get rid of that major irritant Mc Nab. The relationship between Peabody and him is tiresome and thoroughly yuk! inducing as they slobber over each other and make asinine sexual comments. Peabody's adolescent silliness has sacrificed the credibility that she had before, and she loses my respect as a character worth reading about. IMO, Peabody and Mc Nab have become drop dead boring. I hope that Nora gives Peabody her snarky edge back, and that she lightens up on the love/romance/babies and spares us that way overdone story element which I really dislike in a detective novel above all else.  If anyone has read Keith Ablow's brilliant books you know what is meant here.     Dr. Mira is a lot more tolerable in this story since she is not the sucky, hand patting, patronizing therapist portrayed before. I loved that she was given some \\"ballz\\" in the story and stood up to Eve when she was angered by her baiting and insults.  I would like to read more indepth psychiatric discussions from Dr. Mira when she is giving feedback for the case.  Thankfully, Nadine Fuerst is handled as a minor character instead of dominating the story with her narcissism when she appears in it.     I really enjoyed the many elements of the hunt for the killers which always makes her stories believable and riveting.  I keep coming back for more of her cop stories. She drew some real strong and insightful pictures of the psychopathology of those three murderers in this story and she definitely nailed it. As a psychologist who has spent 35 years researching psychopathology, I really respect the research she does in psychiatric disorders to make her stories credible.  Well done.	2005-09-13
US	52489456	R2HBZ3JCSQAVZP	1592220819	669464810	Traitor's Knot (War of Light and Shadow): Alliance of Light Book Four	Books	4	9	16	N	Y	Verbosity Overdose	I love the overall storyline about the Paravians and the people who inhabit their land. The very appealing wild clansmen, high magic, Socerers, Koriani witches, the bungling Dakkar and a few others. Thankfully the obnoxious Fionn Areth was turfed about halfway through the book. The rounded out characterizations of Sorcerer Davien and Captain Sulfin Evend vastly enhanced their respective roles making each more interesting and sympathetic.  For this I give the story 4 stars.   <br /> <br />The saga continues with Lysaer and Arithon still locked in their endlessly boring struggle with the geas of the Mistwraith.  And once again, the story is paralyzed from the start with the puzzling use of many, many past tense words placed in front of nearly every verb. They totally arrest the action before it ever begins.  Additionally, the over the top, overblown verbosity, disjointed, baffling prose, endless descriptions of scenery, repetitive, tasteless details that have zero impact on the story line along with the hilarious mangled metaphors make it a veritable feast of a highly amusing read.  <br /> <br />Being a fan of less is more philosophy trying to slug through this book of dire crisis after dire crisis brought to orgasmic intensity where at the VERY last moment/instant/second the hero in the of-cosmic-importance struggle survives against all odds, I would think that better crisis management by the Sorcerers is required. Why waste their only resources?  Sulfin, Lysaer, Dakkar, Arithon, Elaira are brought to the edge of reason and collapse - all in the past tense - so there is never any story tension thus you never get to enjoy the ride so to speak. <br /> <br />I personally enjoyed the power mad Iyat blowing up the great Koriani Amethyst and being trapped in it as a fossil forever despoiling the witches greatest tool. HA! Pay back is such a kick. I hope that Prime Selide gets hers too for being a body snatcher.  <br /> <br />And I am always eager to read more about the Socerers. However, I do wish Sethvir would recover. His death door saga is boring after 3 volumes of it. Sorcerers should be able to self renew with a thought shouldn't they? Hmmm? <br />   <br />The sex scene between Arithon and Elaira was downright cruel,   demeaning and typical of the drowning negativity of this entire saga. I consider it an unrecoverable mistake.  Apart from that there is little else to remember of this story, because it is more of the same doom and gloom of Peril's Gate, etc.  <br /> <br />To me, it feels time to close this story with a real positive ending. Let Arithon and Elaira become new Fellowship Sorcerers, kick all the people off of the continent and let the Paravians Rule!	2005-07-21
US	52489456	R80FAJIKRF50A	0446577227	20425438	The pH Miracle for Weight Loss: Balance Your Body Chemistry, Achieve Your Ideal Weight	Books	4	294	327	N	Y	Unrealistic and Rigid, but if it works-go for it.	The problem I have with this book over his earlier one is that it is so very rigid and, at times, quite unrealistic. I do NOT want to become a vegan/vegetarian again because when I tried it for almost 10 years, I nearly died from malnutrition because legumes and other vegetarian proteins do not have complete amino acids required by the body chemistry according to my M.D./H.M.D.    There is no getting around the fact that it requires absolute rigid self control and total self absorption to follow it to the letter. For me, I would rather pop vitamins than eat carrot sticks and raw foods every day for the rest of my life. Been there, done that, no thanks.       Personally, I have used the pH diet myself (his earlier book) and have had amazing and lasting results. I eat lobster, steak, chicken and other goodies like chocolate in sparing amounts. I  consume those foods separate from any other, and follow a meal with a \\"chaser\\" of alka seltzer gold which has the potassium needed to offset sodium imbalance, rx'd by my physician. This simple step alkalinizes the body chemistry.  In the two years I have used this \\"modified\\" pH diet, including my \\"chocoholic\\" munchies and other dietary \\"sins\\", I have experienced zero weight regain or any other negative health consequences.  I use only virgin coconut oil because it is a medium chain triglyceride and the only oil that does not store fat in your body.  The research on it is amazing, and I have so much energy, that at 68, I feel and act like a much younger woman.    I have long used Peltier electrolyte concentrate added to Evian to raise the water pH and continue to get positive results. I use the green drink very often and it is wonderful to feel such a blast of energy in your system after a glassful.  I agree with the one reviewer about the noxious marketing of some companies in the food supplementation industry with their MLMs and other overpriced machines and nutrients. I refuse to pay for their research and development costs.   My own research has led me to pharmaceutical grade supplements from Life Extension Foundation and organic herbal supplements from Nature's Sunshine.  Both have been extraordinarily beneficial at a fraction of the cost of those listed in the book appendix.  Research is easy to do online. For me the bottom line is always common sense.	2005-06-15
US	52489456	R1SUDA4OHC6RFN	0515138657	910629032	Black Rose (In The Garden Trilogy)	Books	3	8	22	N	Y	A real eye opener about Southerners.	Whew!  Hypocrisy, genteel manners cloaked in a smooth, honeyed drawl to disguise viciousness, vindictiveness and the grade school clique mentality of it's population.  What a delicious unmasking!!! Plus it is layered within the prison of tradition and those artificial expectations that saddle each new generation with the old and outmoded. What a read! I totally enjoyed this book because it reveals more than was the original intent about life in the southern USA as seen through the AUTHOR's eyes.      I had hoped that she would resist creating a mature 47 year old woman in this story having \\"melting bones\\" and blubbering, mindlessness when she has sex. Thankfully, that particularly revolting description used in ALL her other stories is absent in this one. Plus nookie nausea doesn't occur until over 170 pages instead nearly page one of the story.    The best part for me was the intro when the author tells us about her own property, which morphs into a story about gardening.  Delightful!       The negatives: Once again the \\"ick factor\\" was amped up with her slobbering gooey babies obsession coupled with bratty children ad nauseum. IMO, Less is more in that area. The patronizing, suffocating, unrealistic conversations between the characters and family members. Who talks that way in real life?     Lover boy Mitch becomes more grounded but he is still boring. The two obnoxious females, Hayley and Stella, who don't shy at sticking their noses and attitudes into Rosalind's personal life were simply unbearable. Then the noxious product placement, and designer label waving that dates a story and continually pops it out of the realm of escape fiction annoys and distracts.       In the PLUS column: Harper, although presented as a monosyllabic grunting, soda swilling moron, is better defined;  Thankfully, Logan, the rude, temperamental gardener, is absent most of the book; The nasty, insane, grieving ghost Amelia is fantastic spice for this particular story.  The crusty old batCousin Rissy, firmly lodged in past traditions and bigotry; forever out of the loop finally gets her comeuppance.  David, the gay adopted son was my favorite character. He adds leavening and hipness to this otherwise saccharine story.      Rosalind's blazing yet dignified handling of her private disasters with her ex-husband and the ghost Amelia are well worth the read. In this trilogy there are three strong women, albeit two are obnoxious, which is far more realistic than those cut and paste heroines of her past trilogies.  Now, if the author can resist dragging the limp, dishrag Jane Paulsen into this story mix I will be happy.	2005-06-09
US	52489456	R3BHI5AP6ML0XO	0312975740	206728006	Projection	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Superb, insightful, frightening, brilliant and very  real	I firmly disagree with those who say this is Ablow's weakest book to date. It makes you look very deeply into your own psyche and how you project your stuff onto others both consciously and, more powerfully, from the recesses of the unconscious mind in ways that can end up in either chaos or order.  <br /> <br />Dr. Ablow is an incredibly intuitive psychiatrist who expresses his knowledge and experience in a way that is exquisitely brought to life with his incisive intellect and compassionate nature expressed in words that are an art form in themselves in how they are refined before selection. This book is a deeply profound study of the psychodynamic called Projection. I find myself asking more questions and doing more inner \\"homework\\" in my own psyche as a direct result of the power of his work. <br /> <br />The author has a set of big 'ole brass ones to be this utterly transparent with the reader. I find myself in awe and very respectful of Dr. Ablow's enormous capacity to be totally REAL.   <br /> <br />The teaching in this book is beyond superb, it is brilliant and illuminating.  \\"Monitoring one's own emotions' in reaction to other's behavior is the major message here that Holloway shares with Clevenger. It is one of the key concepts that doctors utilize in therapy to guide the patient toward that \\"ah ha\\" experience, and can be brilliantly useful to others as well. I found it a timely reminder.  In my opinion, the story is almost ancillary to the powerful inner work that the author puts on the table for us all to share. <br /> <br />This is the third book of this series that I have read and can say that they all will be archived cheek by jowl with my medical and psychiatric textbooks.  It is a wonderful teaching tool and should be required reading in graduate school. <br /> <br />Kathleen Nelson, PhD <br />Psychologist (Ret.) <br />Music Producer	2005-04-23
US	52489456	R2UZ3QT5J2L542	0312996055	917331861	Psychopath: A Novel (Frank Clevenger)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Better than a textbook on Psychopathology	As a psychologist myself who has researched this particular personality disorder for 30 years, I have to say that this book is far superior to the cut and dried approaches of the textbooks in the field that address the topic of Psychopathology.  Ablow is clearly a master in his understanding and portrayal of the content, knowledge, experience in the field of Forensic Psychology, and he has the superior ability to tell a story about a terrifying psychological disorder in the clearest and most instructive manner without being a bit boring.  <br /> <br />The deterioration and collapse of the psychological boundaries of the criminal mind of Jonah Wrens and the devious plotting, verbal manipulation and emotional decompensation he portrays is scary beyond words because this is truly the way that psychopaths react and act.   <br /> <br />I have archived this book with my other texts on psychopathology and will recommend it to professional and non professionals as the best work on this topic in the field right now.  Get it and you will learn more than you ever imagined.  Brilliant book. Brilliant author.  \\"Two thumbs way up!\\", borrowing the words of Roger Ebert.   <br /> <br />Kathleen Nelson, RN, PhD <br />Clinical Psychologist (Ret.)	2005-04-11
US	52489456	R35AI910V6JDKE	0425201759	375692497	Lovers and Dreamers 3-in-1 (Dream Trilogy)	Books	3	6	18	N	Y	Same three characters - again.	This trilogy is a rerelease of Ms. Robert's earlier work in the mid 90s and consists of the same three female subtypes that Nora has used in all of her trilogies which are about three sisters/cousins/relatives sharing lives and community. The only thing that updates each trilogy is the so contemporary label waving references to designers couture (Armani, Valentino, etc.); music, Bob Seger, etc; and ojects d'art.       In this triad of obnoxious women, Margo is the free spirited barely educated, narcissist who lives her life in the fast lane totally self absorbed and empty until she crashes. Then there is Kate, the half sister who is a hostile, aggressive, self absorbed angry young woman similar to others in past series.   Kate is slightly more interesting than the other two in this saga in that she is college educated and a professional. I would have preferred that she was actually lesbian, as she pretends to be for the titillation of it, instead of the sappy, ulcer ridden limp dishrag she morphs into when confronted with facts about her father who embezzled money plus the duplicity of a former lover who sabotages her job and steals from her. On top of that she has met an arrogant jerk who has decided his sexual needs are more important than the mess she is living and he constantly hounds her for sex.    Then there is the Templeton princess, Laura, who turns out to be a passive, blindly trusting mother earth type whose world is babies, houses, flowers, parents, her hormones and men. Naturally, Laura is very rich and living in her parent's house so she doesn't have that pressure to survive economic disaster like in real life.        All three of these women are emotional wrecks who define themselves by their relationship with a male instead of knowing themselves in any depth.  They are all waiting to be bedded by some super hero and are mewling like helpless infants in gratitude when the nearest available male offers his services. I always skip the sex pages since they are so over the top that they are laughable.       Two other things that are utterly phony is the too polite dialogs between the Templetons (insert any other parent type dialoging with their offspring in any other of Nora Robert's books) and their brood. Additionally, the gooey eyed yammering by both the women and their males over the idea of babies, babies, babies, ad nauseum makes the story utterly obnoxious.     I hope that the author, who happens to be one of my favorites with her J.D. Robb books, writes a story or two about men who behave badly all the way through the book and end up deserting the female characters, just like in real life. I also hope that a female character is developed who doesn't lapse into brain deadness, melting bones, blubbering stupidity while in the midst of her hormonal firestorms.        Like the advice written on the Temple of Delphi, \\"Nothing in Haste\\" and \\"Know Thyself\\" always works.	2005-03-12
US	52489456	R15N41OSHS3XSU	0515107662	135529800	The Sherbrooke Bride (Bride Series, Book 1)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A Love/Hate Story	Normally I love Catherine Coulter's stories, but this one infuriated me which surprised me.  Douglas, The Earl of Northcliffe is the prototype crude, rude, arrogant, tyrannical, rutting bore who projects his own vile temperament onto his new wife Alexandra, in unceasing torrents of verbal abuse.  He doesn't want her because he contracted to marry Melissande, who is sister to Alexandra.  The story conflict revolves around the situation where the Earl cannot be in two places at once.  He had been called upon to rescue a damsel in distress for a Frenchman named Caudoudel, at the same time as his wedding to Melissande, so he sends his cousin Tony as his proxy. Tony and Melissande fall in love at first sight, so Tony marries both sisters. He selects Alexandra for Douglas, and Melissande for himself.   <br /> <br />Later, when faced with this deception and sabotage, the Earl goes around the bend and starts to rant and rave at Alexandra whom he targets as his scapegoat, and there is no cessation from his intransigent ire. I found my stomach clenching repeatedly while reading this book because the level of debasing vitriole was so immense.     <br />  <br />Douglas' poor bride Alexandra is so superior to him yet she is reduced to a miserable, bloodless wife by his unremitting  diatribes of utter rejection of her. Apart from the sexual part of their married life. In that area he is described as a dark haired man covered with black coarse thick hair all over his body who acts like a mindless rutting beast as he rapes Alexandra daily.  There is no love in his repellant sexual congress, merely his interpretation of \\"lust\\".   <br />  <br />Instead of whipping his cousin Tony, who deserves the pounding for his deception and sabotage, we see the good ole boy network is in full operation. It is heartbreaking.  Yet, Alexandra thinks that she loves him regardless.   <br /> <br />I have to say that the book is very well written despite the subject matter of an emotionally abusive husband.	2005-02-07
US	52489456	R1X0GN1B9SFDX5	051513855X	794602045	Blue Dahlia (In the Garden, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Flower Lovers Paradise	Being an avid gardener who is passionate about flowers this book was a real fun read.  It is a ghost story with edginess that I liked very much.  The heroine, Stella, was a good character type of studious, meticulous and responsible. I must admit I liked her more than other heroines in previous books because this time Nora gives us a gal who is smart, rational and not entirely driven by her hormones.   <br /> <br />Following her husband's untimely death in a plane crash Stella has to reinvent not only her life but shoulder the huge and somewhat frightening responsibility of being a single parent for her two young sons.  She moves home to Tennessee to be with her father and step mother and gets a job in a nursery as a manager which satisfies both her love of horticulture, her degree in it and her particular skill in management.  She meets Logan the acerbic landscape artist who works for her boss.  From there it is off and running as he decides that she is his cup of tea and she has to catch up to where he is.  It is about romance, a sad ghost, and rescuing others in dire straits. It explores women's friendships and there are two more gals in the picture whose stories will be up next.  I look forward to the rest of this trilogy.	2004-11-29
US	52489456	R2OC6O25PRNC61	0399151710	825521848	Visions in Death	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Best in the series to date	I definitely like Nora Roberts writing in this latest installment of J.D. Robb's futuristic crime series.  Eve and Roarke have settled into the deeper, sweeter aspects of their marital life and there is the loveliness of that stability and sense of security that now blossoms in Eve's attitudes, behavior and emotional life.  Eve is now able to reach out emotionally to Peabody and others rather than wallow in her own misery and constantly use it as the template for all her reactions.  This is a fresh and welcome new start for Eve and the readers.    The mystery is gripping and the \\"bad guy\\" a surprise.  I liked very much that the author has allowed Eve to get past the nightmares of her childhood so that we are spared the total recounting of it this book. I love Peabody even though this time she narrowly escaped death at the killer's hands and is pretty badly injured.  Nadine Fuerst is there and she is less abrasive this time in her news journalist role.     Also modified is the saccharine treatment by Dr. Mira toward Eve that has been too phony for palatability to this reader. After 4 books where Dr. Mira's personal life has been introduced I regret to say that I still don't care for Dr. Mira and her husband and the gooey dialogs between them. I want to see Mira as the cool, efficient scientist. I would enjoy more technical stuff about the forensics in the case. This is a by product of the CSI series on TV, no doubt. The humor is snarkier and I love the sly zingers that whiz around the room when the characters get together for a case briefing!  Great Job!  A definite keeper for my Nora Roberts archive.	2004-11-29
US	52489456	R216SQDT7MEM61	0740734954	971885461	I Would Have Bought You A Cat , But... A Get Fuzzy Gift Book	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Hilarious, Adorable	This book is the best.  Absolutely hilarious, reflective and adorable to lovers of our companion animals.  Love it!	2004-06-26
US	52489456	R39KCY8VV9G9DH	1592220231	25863595	To Ride Hell's Chasm	Books	4	8	14	N	Y	Compelling story	The author is adept at creating incredible worlds of fantasy. She creates characters that are real and vivid. The plots are excellent, convoluted and compelling.<br />This book's hero is exactly like Prince Arithon in her other books, most recently Peril's Gate, and the Princess Anja of Sessalie is almost identical to Arithon's girlfriend,such that I found myself confusing the characters at times.  <BR>The following objective comments detail a few problems that I have with this book:<br />1. Unrealistic, overblown prose. All the characters dialog is in a backward type of stilted high style language. This is true of the hero, the princess, the pig farmer turned soldier, the king, courtiers, drunken trappers and shamans of desert tribes of other lands.   <BR>2. Metaphors such as this on p. 198 &quot;smooth as butter left on a plate, the seneschal found himself cooling his heels on the carpet in the front hall&quot;.  Say What?<BR>3. The use of past tense verbs in front of adjectives or nouns that overstate and/or stall ongoing action, impact and meaning. Ex: p.510 &quot;..He's still acting on Mykkael's left orders?&quot;  Is this vs right orders?<BR>4. Through the entire book the term &quot;desert-bred&quot; is used on nearly every page to describe Mykkael. <BR>5. The hero, like Prince Arithon is weepy, tormented, abused, hated and reviled.  <BR>6. The story's tone is negative in extremis. Speaking only for myself, it presents a bit of a trial to read. The ending was the only ray of light for the salvation of Mykkael.<br />What is excellent is the high magic of the shamans and the mystical elements that this author weaves throughout her stories.  Overall the book is very engaging despite the excessively ornate, stilted prose.  The beautifully spirited horses in the story were the champions. I felt them most<BR>deeply of all.	2004-04-26
US	52489456	R3HQ6DKVKUQXDQ	0399151540	645136087	Divided in Death	Books	4	5	10	N	Y	Re:  How to say this?	In this latest installment of the \\"In Death\\" series, Nora Roberts/J.D.Robb has amped up the hip-lip trip, but I don't like the trite and repetitive dialog that continually appears in each book of this series. Reread any of this series and you will see it yourself. It has a cut and paste feel to it.<br />Predictable elements: You can bet Feeney will rattle his bag of candied nuts; that Eve will have another of her done-to-death nightmares about her childhood; that Roarke will throw a snit in a power struggle with Eve and they will have rabid sex several times (yawn); that Mavis will show up whining; that Peabody (my favorite character) will sling wisecracks and obsess about food (cobbler this time); that Mc Nab will be as obnoxious as ever; that Nadine Fuerst will get the scoop; that Eve's bosses will be gruff, tough, supportive; that the obnoxious Dr. Mira will still smother Eve in excrutiatingly patronizing tones; that everyone will obsess over drinking real coffee, etc.<br />I really enjoy this author when she hits her stride and makes the mystery gripping and engaging as in her earliest books in this series. This time Roberts takes on the Homeland Security Office and makes some really pointed political comments with which I happen to agree.  Eve shows her warrior woman persona in full form when she orchestrates a \\"take down\\" of the corrupt HSO in what she perceives as a big way.  Eve rationalizes and justifies it as a way to satisfy her burning rage and lust for revenge when she learns through Roarke's hack into the HSO data base that the HSO was involved but did nothing for her during her childhood trauma when she murdered her father as a way to  survive her personal horror. However, I REALLY hated it when Eve mulishly blocked Roarke's personal need for retribution. To me, it was doubly wrong because his father was involved in Dallas during Eve's nightmare experiences. What irritated me most was that it felt like Eve emasculated Roarke by forcing him to give up his righteous revenge and ability to settle accounts in his own way just for some mawkish sentimentality for her.<br />My first constructive criticism is that Nora Roberts would lose the trite, over used, overly polite, phony dialogs between the characters. Eve's prickly, brutal and crude dialog and Peabody's snappy, clever rejoinders provide the only real feeling in the dialogs. Secondly, I wish that the in future books that the author would serve up something that doesn't feel like one is reading the same story again and again only with different murderers, crime scenes and victims cut and pasted in.<br />In fairness, J.D. Robb/Nora Roberts is one of the better writers in her genre in my opinion. In this futuristic \\"In Death\\" series we don't have to endure designer label references, like Manolo Blahnik, Armani, etc or references to current musical artists, etc like she floods some of her other books with, namely Robert's latest \\"Key of\\" series. Yet, I will read her next new stuff even if it sounds like her old stuff.up his righteous revenge and ability to settle accounts in his own way just for some mawkish sentimentality for her.  <br />My first constructive criticism is that Nora Roberts would lose the trite, over used, overly polite, phony dialogs between the characters. Eve's prickly, brutal and crude dialog and Peabody's snappy, clever rejoinders provide the only real feeling in the dialogs. Secondly, I wish that the in future books that the author would serve up something that doesn't feel like one is reading the same story again and again only with different murderers, crime scenes and victims cut and pasted in.   <br />In fairness, J.D. Robb/Nora Roberts is one of the better writers in her genre in my opinion. In this futuristic \\"In Death\\" series we don't have to endure designer label references, like Manolo Blahnik, Armani, etc or references to current musical artists, etc like she floods some of her other books with, namely Robert's latest \\"Key of\\" series. Yet, I will read her next new stuff even if it sounds like her old stuff.	2004-03-04
US	52489456	R2XOP95B47B0I6	0446354775	433003967	Heart of the Night	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Steamy and Suspensful	I like Barbara Delinsky's books mostly because she has such a gift in making her characters come to life on each page. &quot;Heart of the Night&quot; definitely has a lot of heart in it. Love, lust, friendship, conflicted loyalties, fraternal twins' jealousies,  insecurities, duplicity, real men with you know whats, kidnapping, frame ups and death, and of course the jerks who are bosses and coworkers. The main treat is the pulsating, throbbing voice of Jared Snow the DJ who keeps the ladies in R.I. drooling and doing other things all night long.  <BR> <BR>I can recall having had a &quot;crush&quot; on an all night DJ's voice that was like smooth, creamy, luscious (fill in the blank with your choice) orgasmic-like delight.  Mine? - melt in your mouth  chocolates! Mmmmm.<br />Well, anyway, although this book was written back in the 80s, it has an aura of timelessness that the author comments upon herself. I agree. And, in my opinion, of all Delinsky's books this one will remain my favorite. It is a wonderful, thoughtful tale filled with deeply drawn characters who remain in your heart and mind long after the last page.  Buy it, enjoy it, and have some luscious Godiva or Sees while you read.	2004-02-23
US	52489456	R1GJ7ZHLAQ9P5D	0061041998	584007705	More Than Friends	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Gut Wrenching Reality	This book is Delinsky's best to date, in my opinion. She has a cast of utterly unlikeable characters, apart from Annie, Zoe and Grady. There are oversexed, cheating husbands; power drunk, cruel and heartless men (J.S., J.D.); and other nasty people in this story that guarantees enough grist to keep a gal grinding her teeth or her gristmill of angst. There is the dimwitted, hormonally dominated,low class brood mare Teke who just continues to lame out and be helpless, her favorite mode of action. There are bratty teenagers whom one might want to kick all their over-privileged, over-indulged rearends any number of times. The story is a mind bending tour de force of the pain of dysfunctionality in families, and extended families, who in this story include best friends and their brood. Then there is a teenage revenge pregancy and a very malicious neighborhood gossip who involves herself in the story and literally brings down the families in a heartless power manipulation to grab her 5th husband from the fallout. Plus, there is plenty of other good stuff like control freak men with their raging threats and a powerful portrayal of two men with irrational, revenge mentalities who are utterly drunk on the dynamics of power manipulation.  And the GUILT!  It oozes from every pore in this story of mutual betrayals.<br />I loved this book. I could hate most of the main characters because of their despicability and root for the two who redeem the story. What an interesting polarity challenge. Rarely does an author write in such a way as to invite that sort of reader participation in the emotional abuse process unfolding in the book.  The insights provided by the characters are not only relevant to the story line, they are relevant to one's own family structure for the book makes you look inward, to examine one's own reality and to THINK with new depth! A wonderful gift to a reader.<br />In fact, it would be a good research assignment for people who are studying sociology and psychology of family dynamics in their graduate programs at college. It is light years above the vacuous psychobabble of most of the mainstream psychology texts with their little powerpoint menus of dysfunctionality and hypothetical constructs. (Yawn). I know because I am a trained psychologist and I can attest to how meaningless those kinds of college texts are overall. If a reader is involved in a family mess of cheating spouses, control freak parents, bratty teenagers and those gut wrenching, raging dialogs by wronged parties then this book is a good way to externalize the grief, look at it, and gain the perspective provided by a whole lot of clues how to resolve conflict suggested in this work. I most definitely recommend this book.	2004-01-17
US	52489456	R1YJH05W06ZQ8D	0515136530	370800636	Key of Valor	Books	2	6	11	N	Y	A high end shopping trip	Armani suits, Manolo Blahnik shoes, Harry Potter pj's, Play Station2, on and on. This story was like a virtual parade of high end products name dropping heavily scattered throughout most of the book. It was frustrating because the ongoing product reminders shift one's attention from fiction to reality and into focusing upon a shopping trip at Neiman Marcus rather than upon the story itself.  <br />I had trouble with Bradley's manipulation of Zoe through her kid Simon into a dependency mindset, and his nonstop pressure for sexual intimacy that forced her to compromise herself before she had even gotten a grip on how to find the Key of Valor. And this evolved into a benevolent domination and control in the guise of the men \\"protecting\\" their little women. In this final part of the trilogy, that theme particularly undermined the \\"woman of steel\\" image and dignity that Zoe lived and fought so hard scrabble to achieve on her own.  <br />Finally, the metaphysical theme of the majestic life and death power struggle between Zoe and Kane, mortal vs a god, got lost in the story somehow and the question was left unanswered. Albeit, there are reminders of the magical theme of this story when the otherworld king manifests through the veil on a ray of light into the form of a golden deer wearing a jewelled collar, and when Zoe asks the Divinity to grant a boon to Pitte and Rowena. My frustration with this book is that there was too much left dangling, particularly the aforesaid mystical impact, and it left this reader feeling adrift without closure.	2004-01-10
US	52489456	R11GPJCKAER3NH	0061092819	648816207	Together Alone	Books	4	33	44	N	Y	Powerful and heartrending	This book is one of Delinsky's best.  She has researched and written about a terrible crime that effects everyone in this country and probably worldwide: Child Abduction.<br />The mix of characters, a dishrag mother, Emily, whose life has been dominated and controlled by her husband, Doug, who has been punishing her for 19 years by abandoning her in the trumped up guise of needing to work extra long hours, days, months, and, naturally it involves excessive traveling. Doug is a rigid jerk who despises and loathes Emily for leaving their son in a car while running into a post office in their small town only to return and find the child gone.  His dishonesty with Emily is a real gut wrencher.<br />There is a cast of good girl friends and a &quot;renter&quot; Brian, who is a cop with a 2 year old left in his care due to his wife dying in an accident.  He puts the moves on Emily right away when he sees her husband has literally abandoned her. And she doesn't resist. The plot thickens when Jill, their only surviving child, away in Boston at college, observes her lying, cheating father on the door step of a townhome there embracing a woman and kissing a little boy. Jill lets her mother know in a very oblique way and this leads to the discovery by Emily of the facts.<br />Emily finally gets the guts to remedy the problem, yet it is very hard to identify with her in a truly sympathetic way especially after the desperately dependent Emily starts cheating with the renter Brian while her husband is away. Two wrongs do NOT make a right no matter how justified the author wants us to believe. Especially since this is a morality tale and the immorality of the characters cancels its impact.   <br />There are enough subplots to keep the most demanding reader <BR>engaged. I hated her self pity and morose self absorption. I really hated her betrayal of her marriage BEFORE she discovers her husband's cheating. It was very jarring and I wish the author had introduced Brian late in the story, after the unmasking of the duplicity of Doug to make it, perhaps, more decent. Otherwise it is a story of two cheating spouses grieving over a lost child. The ending is a non event. The crazy old neighbor woman Myra is not at all believable and in fact is massively annoying. To find that she has harbored the secret of the lost child's death is just too far fetched.  But, the fact of the missing children theme is educational and well meant.	2004-01-09
US	52489456	RHX9I0EZCF8DH	0671036505	526930828	The Vineyard	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Real and Gritty	I really like Barbara Delinsky's style of writing.  You feel as if you are an actual part of the story rather than \\"remote viewing\\" as is the case in nearly every other romance fiction writer.<br />Nor is there any sordid, soft porn sex scenes to tittilate  voyeuristic lust. She builds her love scenes as a gradual, gentle and deeply insightful awakening.  She reveals romance in an elegant, classy and very tasteful manner that engages the reader in the reality of the eventual mating without grossing out the reader with the vulgarity found in Stephanie Laurens or even Nora Roberts show-all-tell-all graphic manner that forces some readers to skip those \\"steamy\\" pages. Delinsky's books are like opening a box of treasures and never being disappointed or repelled by the contents.  <br />Delinsky also has a wonderful sense of philosophy about family relationships and the manner in which to build strong ones despite setbacks and condemnation by said family or friends. In this book she examines the greatly flawed assumptions that middle aged children dump on their elderly 76 year old mother when she elects to marry her vineyard manager and childhood lover after the death of her husband and father of the kids. <BR>Also this fascinating story is about the labor intensive work of farming a vineyard and the whole issue of sacrifices made by a very strong woman for her entire life to ensure a long term goal of security which makes this story very empowering to women.<br />I did not care for the manipulative, self pitying, pathological liar Olivia, a photo restorer, who happens through connection to her retiring boss to find a position in the vinyardist's own household for the summer to help organize memoirs, restore old photos and write the book that will explain to Natalie's adult children why she is marrying Carl and the truth about their biological father. Olivia's learning disabled and dysfunctional child dropped into the mix is just plain annoying, but the author deals withthis difficult topic in an informed and proactive way. Then, there is Simon, the sour, recalcitrant, rejecting vineyard co-manager whose lost his mother, wife and child in a freak sailing accident caused by drunken sailors in another watercraft. After 4 years he is still wallowing in anger and self pity. Both Simon and the child Tess make the book grating at times, especially the kid's rebellion against  authority and her special education teachers. Then there is Olivia's whining about her long lost alcoholic mother whose rejection has forced her to live in fantasyland her entire life. She even fantasizes that she is a long lost member of Natalie's household. This is all a bit much. <br />However, I do recommend this book for the elegant prose and style that the author brings. She makes me think of Guy Gavriel Kay's exquisite writing style as she unfolds a story in a rich tapestry of life in a microcosm.  I will definitely read more of her stories.	2003-12-21
US	52489456	R12JE39N3ZR33T	0399151729	162118562	A Royal Duty	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Excellent	Unlike some reviewers who trashed this book, I found it to be a very insightful look into a fascinating world that none of us, especially Americans, could have a clue about.  Burrell clearly was dedicated both to Queen Elizabeth II, and later to Diana when he served them.  He is frank, honest, and still in deep grief.  This is a tribute book to both the Queen and Diana.  It is definitely NOT a tribute book to her ex-husband.  Paul clearly has deep affection for William and Harry and it shows.<br />Paul's wife Maria comes across as both a whining nag and saint.  It must have been a horrible time for her especially during the trial period when he was falsely accused.  I fail to see Paul as a \\"traitor\\" in his behavior as some others have.  I see a wounded, used, abused and utterly heartbroken man.  What he had to endure just to serve the royals, even though it was his choice of a career, is a strong lesson for the whiners and complainers in any society.  As he quoted in his book from the movie Gosford Park, \\"a good servant has no life\\".  That bird would not fly in America, especially with our demand of freedom and independence.  Overall, this book is a riveting account of history in the making.  Warts and all, it is worth the time and money spent to peek into a place seemingly frozen in time.	2003-12-06
US	52489456	R30O6HPGF4IZ1X	0515136379	214237042	Key of Knowledge	Books	2	4	7	N	Y	Zzzzzzzzz	I love Nora Roberts writing, mostly.  However, the characters in this trilogy are a rerun of her female characters in all of her other trilogies, ie: \\"The Born In\\"; \\"The Dream\\"; \\"Three Sisters Island\\" trilogy, etc. In the first of this triad \\"Key of Light\\" there is her level headed business oriented Malory. In \\"Key of Knowledge\\" the foul mouthed, brittle, macho Dana; and finally, in forthcoming \\"Key of Valor\\" Zoe, the uber female with an out of wedlock kid this time. All three women are introduced in the first book of this trilogy \\"Key of Light\\".  The three males who bed and wed these women are reruns of the males found in the abovementioned trilogies as well.    <br />This time around the three damsels in distress are placed in a truly unbelievable situation of quasi magic interfacing with reality. This trilogy requires that the reader suspend rationality totally which one could if this were in the futuristic vein that she presents in her outstanding romance-thriller series written under her pen alterego name J.D.Robb.  Those stories have a real edginess with her hip, tender-tough warrior-heroine Eve Dallas. I have a sense of Nora going a bit stale character wise in this Key series. Read them and judge for yourself.	2003-12-06
US	52489456	R12VAH3KF7W5RC	0060002077	647810240	A Gentleman's Honor (Bastion Club)	Books	2	9	15	N	Y	Very boring and trite	Same Laurens'stuff, different day.  The series plot line involves 7 noble gentlemen who formed the Bastion Club to commiserate among themselves while they preserve themselves from the \\"horrors\\" of social matchmaking and free to choose their own wives. The gentlemen are all former government spies and have, by luck or their ancestors' misfortune of dying early, inherited titles, money and estates and their placement in the \\"ton\\". They still have their spying instincts intact having travelled in the service of their country for many years each. This master plot line is, to this reader, a far superior focus that has the potential to redeem these \\"Cynster\\" novels of which this book is the second in the series.  One could also wish that the author would upgrade her descriptions of sexuality into refinement and some measure of elegance. There are some very captivating parts in the book, namely the machinations of the men reanimating their spy skills and going on a man hunt for a potential killer.<BR>Unfortunately, the author shrugs off this part of her story while she waxes on in an adolescent fixation on sexuality for pages at a time. These extremely graphic intimate encounters between Alicia and Anthony are repetitive and silly. Yawn. The author would have us believe that a volatile, hotblooded French/Englishman like Anthony will settle for \\"pleasuring\\" her without intercourse over numerous trysts.  His \\"excuse\\" is that she can learn to trust her body, herself and his motives toward her. He sounds like a polished pervert. Alicia is described as a smart woman but the story does not support that. Their so-called clandestine sexual encounters are ridiculous.   <br />The other major flaw in this book is that there are a lot of paper trails that go nowhere. There is no danger in the story where there should be. Even the capture of a paper cutout villain is glossed over when it should have been a definite highlight of the book. The heroine is wallowing in a self absorbed snitover Anthony's heel dragging in proposing to her while she is getting \\"broody\\", thinking of nesting and having babies. She lusts after his big, fancy mansions full of servants and creature comforts while wallowing in self pity that she cannot have what she wants. <br />The author has made Alicia into a vapid, sappy dimwit enslaved by her hormones. Dull, dull, dull. There are 5 more bachelors in the Bastion Club, so that suggests 5 more books in this series.   Unlike J.D.Robb/Nora Roberts who can successfully merge crime and romance without grossing out the reader, this author cannot.	2003-10-11
US	52489456	R3RYTYQO2EQ11I	0399151060	728441185	Remember When	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Great new writing vibes	Oh, yeah.  Nora Roberts/J.D. Robb nails it this time. This book is a gorgeously written old time romance story followed by a fast forward 50 years and slam dunk into a modern cop drama that ties together both stories.  This book is brilliant, clever and collectible.<br />I love Ms. Roberts experiential approach to writing.  Each new book shows a rich new facet of herself as she creates &quot;gotcha hooked stories&quot;. Her imagination seems endless and the sources for her material, in this case collectible toys, provides grist for her very clever mill in the most positive sense. I love her characterizations, particularly those that retain the feel of  stablity while caught in the presence of chaos.  Especially characters like Feeney and his bag of sugared nuts, the eye blinding clothes worn by McNab, the lust for freebee food at Roarke and Eve's home always amuses. The solid, new Detective Peabody flashing her new badge and getting her mojo in her new role. The unforgettable,gorgeous Roarke as he continues to show his incredible love and patience with Eve through all her crusty street wise mannerisms overlaying her bruised and tarnished heart of gold. For both of them, there could be no other. What a message of love. The Lieutenant is so tough/vulnerable and conflicted/honorable. In this story J.D. has Eve softening a bit and sounding more settled and calm as her marriage matures a bit and her feelings of security both in love and her life unfold. Still J.D. reminds us through Eve's voice that it is a tough go for this wounded warrior. The author really stands for women like this and I just adore that facet of her writing for to me it is the heart of her work.<br />As J.D. Robb, she truly gets the vibes of real police work. Read this Brilliant book.	2003-09-27
US	52489456	R2UICOV5FV8THN	0373218257	158460806	Love By Design	Books	1	63	81	N	Y	Early, Awful	I wish the publishers of Ms. Roberts earliest novels would NOT publish them as new releases.  The two stories in this book are just awful.  Really awful.  They are as bad as some of the junk that other romance genre writers churn out even to this day. <BR>  <BR>I love Nora Roberts books from about 1998 on. And I am very fond of her J.D. Robb murder series.  Especially the latest which are hip, sharp and witty which makes them selectively collectible. <br />However, with this offering save your money because Love by Design really sucks.	2003-09-22
US	52489456	R91O1XSU0OARK	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	3	14	20	N	Y	Same Stuff, Different Book	Terry Goodkind is certainly one of my &quot;must read&quot; authors based upon his past history with this series.  However, I do agree with other readers who have reviewed him that his repetitive political/philosophical rants are way out of control and are fast becoming quite boring.  Been there, read that.<br />The Naked Empire title was abundantly clear in the storyline as that of people naked of psychic/magic powers. The villan in the story was sufficiently gross and cruel to satisfy the lust for blood some need in a story.  And I am forever glad that Richard and Kahlan have finally gotten rid of that annoying, whining cry baby Jennsen by leaving her with the people who are psychically naked.  Thank you Terry.  Of all the characters he creates, this one was simply a teeth grinding annoyance. <br />I agree also with other reviewers that it is time to finish this story and move on.  I want to see the Emperor Jagang brought to his knees and destroyed along with his sick religious dogma. One more book should do it.	2003-09-19
US	52489456	R38110LQF258TF	0060002069	774889342	The Lady Chosen (Bastion Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Hipper than usual regency drama	This author is a very good writer of dialog and is a whole lot hipper than most other novelists in this genre.  I felt like I was here and now in 2003, listening to 1800s dialog with a current vibe to it.  It made reading very cool.<br />The skullduggery in this complex plot is capable of producing a few heart pounding moments more commonly experienced in Stephen King novels, etc.  I liked this a lot.<br />My one dissonant note and why I gave only 3 stars is that Ms. Laurens writes gross out sex scenes. The ripe imagry created in  one intimate interlude between Ella and Tristan was utterly vulgar. This is my first look at this author and I hope that this aforementioned blunder will not appear in her other romance novels. No woman wants to find herself viewed by her lover this way.  Read the story, you'll find out.	2003-09-14
US	52489456	R136R4S1UJSIND	0451209907	616631756	Quentins	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lyrical and Real	I was surprised at all the negative reviews of this new book.<BR>It is apparent that the author is trying out a new style of interwoven stories within the matrix of degrees of involvement throught the tale. It is fresh, progressive and given that she is still in the game to explore and risk despite her self imposed retirement deserves praise. No resting on her laurels.  Right On!<br /> In Quentins she created a rather unlikeable and smug heroine Ella whose idyllic childhood did not prepare her for a major dose of cruel reality. Ella's polyannish attitude toward life, expecting everyone to love her unconditionally as her parents did gets shattered. Her gutsy fight to remain strong and stable tells a tale of Ireland's celtic sensibilities of endurance and deep community bonding and support.  This is a powerful cultural statement of ancient deep traditional values that can only develop over thousands of years. That tapestry is beautifully woven in this story and fills me with longing wrought by the author's skill.<br />The tale is complex, textured, serpentine and interesting on many levels.  It takes time to warm to most of these people, yet Ms. Binchy's ability to make them very memorable and earthy is one of her greatest skills.  She makes this possible over the course of the story in a leisurly pace with exquisite finesse.<br />In my view, her story lines and many characters give the feeling and a reflection of how we all pass through one another's life at various degrees in our respective milieus.  Her primary characters are sympathetic, particularly Blouse Brennan. She places them in the story just as one would probably see them if it were a real pub.  Patrick in the kitchen felt but not seen but still a strong, enduring presence of stability. Layers and layers of perception for the astute. I felt like I was right in Quentins and could actually see the layout, smell the foods and watch the layers of society interact.  It was fascinating.<br />This new effort is much deeper than her other wonderful stories which I absolutely adore.  Quentins is revealing a new facet of the author's character, philosophy and world view.  It offers exciting and rich rewards to the readers if one is willing to go there with curiosity and an open mind.	2003-09-06
US	52489456	R1HT5GIPV503VU	0553573691	910060472	Venus	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Same stuff, different day	The author has a gift for interesting dialogs appropriate to the time period she is writing of,(despite the alltime most irritating word &quot;mayhaps&quot;in that genre). In this case the setting is in the 1600s in King Charles reign.  The aristocrats are powerful and conniving with a mishmash conspiracy plot by Lord Buckingham to control the King and bolster his own ill defined power grab. He is the sleezy villian in the yarn.<br />The Baron Kincaid is the flummoxed rescuer of another of Feather's trademark inane and very unsympathetic heroines.  In this case the damsel in distress is Polly Wyat, a 17 year old of unremarkable birth who is currently serving in a sleezy pub at the mercy of her cruel and abusive uncle.  She is a fleabitten, filthy bar maid in search of an escape from her strife filled life and looking for a protector to help her fulfill her dream of becoming a stage actor.  <br />There are so many loose ends in this book that despite a different and potentially interesting plot the end result is confusion.  What happens to Lord Kincaid's career after his false imprisonment?  What about his grand plans to overthrow Buckingham?  What does he do with his new bride and his irascible sister Lady Margaret a puritan of preachy morality who bites the very hand that feeds her? In this story the hero is also dimwitted even though he is an experienced at the art and folly of politics. On many levels this story made no sense as it progressed and proved ultimately frustrating.<br />But I think most of all, my objections to this book is that this is another one of the dimwit females that the author seems to have in every one of her books. This one is obnoxious in her posturing and cutesy mannerisms to the point of teeth grinding by this reader.  If you like this sort of helpless female in embattled situations falling into the arms of a strong man with a big &quot;sword&quot; then this book is for you.	2003-09-05
US	52489456	R1BL7ZSK6ES8GM	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A  Masterpiece	This is a book that will enthrall or enrage depending upon one's religious background and mindset.  For this reader it was a riveting exposition of great relevance in a lifelong pursuit of philosophy and world religions to learn whether or not the Bible is fiction.  Now I know.<br />The author is a meticulous researcher and careful chronicler of history, myth and fact. The story illuminates a compelling mystery that has tantalized mankind since time out of mind. \\"The quest for the Holy Grail is the quest to kneel before the bones of Mary Magdalene.  A journey to pray at the feet of the outcast one\\".  The Divine Feminine energy.<br /><br />The Da Vinci Code is a transformative story written in an effortless style that makes it easy to read and assimilate without the message being preachy at all. A Masterpiece.	2003-08-31
US	52489456	R3RSWQSNLHCD1	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	4	4	11	N	Y	Nice plot angle	I have read all of the In Death series by Nora Roberts (J.D.Robb)<BR>and have enjoyed the clever repartee between Lt. Eve Dallas and<BR>her partner Peabody probably better than Eve's somewhat tortured dialog with her husband Roarke. This book's plot is interesting in that Eve and Roarke are witnesses to a death on stage at Roarke's new drama dome. The murderer is known but the &quot;why&quot; of it is not. Eve's pursuit of the &quot;why&quot; makes for a convoluted discovery and involves a cast of colorful characters so typical of the author's fertile imagination.<br />At this point in the series, I am a bit tired of Roarke's greed and the author's constant reminder about Eve's nightmares of her hideous childhood.  Enough whining already! Also tiresome is the too precious relationship that is developing between Dr. Mira and Eve, as she is being patronized into a sort of &quot;daughter&quot; for the psychologist with huggies and kisses. That bird won't fly.<br />I like Eve just fine as a rough as a corncob character. I like her toughness, her grit, her insecurities and her brilliance as  crime solver.  It is, in my opinion, time for her to be promoted to Captain and have Peabody and a new female character enter into the picture as a crime solver and give Eve her just dues for her role as mastermind.  This could add some fascinating color and new trails of intrigue to the series.  Also overdone is the rattling of candied nuts in a bag perpetually being munched by Captain Feeney. His limited dialogs replete with curses is tiresome and boring after awhile.  This guy is supposed to be her mentor and he comes off increasingly as a buffoon. Lastly, even though this book is not the latest in the series Lt. McNab's too cute smart mouth ramblings make him seem unbelievably stupid at times. <br />Mavis and Leonardo in the story line add a dash of pizzaz, yet less is more for those two. Yes, this review sounds critical and it is not meant in a mean spirited way.  It is just that the<BR>story is getting stale and, in my view, it is time for a fresh perspective to surface.  I will, however, continue to read any new books and have stored them for rereading.  That is how much I really like this series.	2003-08-23
US	52489456	RTVGL4YY28U44	0399149848	93143308	Birthright (Roberts, Nora)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better and Better	Nora Roberts has become my favorite female author and with each new release she proves anew her sublime mastery as a writer. I love the evolution of her dialog between parties.  It is hip, ultra sophisticated, educational, always informative and just plain real. Personally, I adore her as J.D. Robb and her Lt. Eve Dallas stories most of all, but it is impossible to ignore anything she writes.<br />This novel is like a tour de force, both texbook and site exploration, of an archeological dig with a murder mystery and hot,hot,hot romances tossed in to keep all the intensity glowing.  It is also a very emotional exploration of abducted/adopted children and the reunion that confronts those who must meet their birth parents or child whether or not they wish to on either side of the issue.  <br />Callie, the heroine is just perfect with her sharp intellect and the veneer of tough as nails professional role. Her background as an archeologist who beds down in sleeping bags rather than in plush comfort accorded her throughout her life by her rich adoptive parents showcases Roberts' amazing skills as an author. She makes characters who are palpably real, multidimensional and believable and she can walk in any one's shoes.  That is an incredible imagination.<br />The author's own emotional maturity shines best when Callie is thrown for a loop upon learning of her abduction and adoption. She is struggling to develop a more compassionate self toward   her bad-boy ex-husband who has been hired as the anthropologist on site for the dig's duration, and she is tormented by her lingering passion for him that has never been extinguished. <br />Her greatest trial apart from being stalked by a murderer with herself as a target is in being forced to meet her birth mother who is a bit unhinged from her grief over her daughter's abduction nearly 30 years ago, and the reality that she is alive. Callie's struggle is to be open to her birth mother and yet remain true to her own parents. The pain is very deep and one can feel it.   <br />Overall, this is a bittersweet tale but one that is so rich with facts and facets woven so skillfully throughout her prose that it is another of Roberts' books that I found simply irresistible.	2003-07-05
US	52489456	R225QNJB9ASLU8	051511779X	358736428	Born in Shame (Born in Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Glowing and Real	You can always tell when the author is stoked by the environment and the people of the country she is writing about.  This trilogy which includes Born in Fire and Born in Ice is outstanding.  The dialog is stunningly real, the people literally lodge in your heart and mind with their realism and charm and the descriptions of the scenery and of Ireland itself is just magnificent.  There are times when you laugh outloud, grind your teeth, feel yourself tearing up and vicariously enjoying the yummy pastries that Brianna bakes up.  There is real heart in these three tales and of them I particularly liked this final book of the trilogy. I think it is because Shannon is American born of Irish descent and her somewhat &quot;ballsy&quot;, hip and smart approach to life teaches the two Irish born sisters some real nitty gritty style in dealing with their despicable mother Maeve who has done her best to try to ruin their lives with her bitterness and failure.<br />The three males who love these three sisters, especially Murphy, who is beautiful on every level, simply charms the heart of even the most jaded reader. Often, throughout the trilogy one wishes &quot;if only&quot; all males were like him.  Rogan and Gray are equally charming but their male ego struggles to accept their burgeoning love for Maggie and Brianna, respectively are difficult and frustrating at times.  Murphy, the patient, handsome, talented and humble neighbor and friend simply shoots his love arrows straight from the heart to Shannon.<br />Like the Light of Ireland that bathes that land of enchantment and gaelic mysticism with its special glow, so too does the lore and magic dazzle the reader throughout the pages of these three books and make this trilogy a put on the shelf to reread especially when one's spirits are bogged down by the daily grind.<BR>Thrilling and wonderful stories that flow in a river of light from the imagination, the experiences and the talent of Nora Roberts, again.	2002-12-03
US	52489456	R39CBSCB4QCM2C	0743435451	195382347	War of Honor (Honor Harrington #10)	Books	5	12	18	N	Y	Sophisticated	I liked David Weber's style in this terrific book even more than his 9 preceeding books in the Honor Harrington series.  There is so much to grasp and remember as the reader is involved in a tremendously complex interweaving of challenging, fascinating plot lines.  Weber's baste 'em and blast 'em battles were top notch nail biters.<br />The following comments are not intented to diminish this book in any way.  First, based upon my own bottomless contempt for all things politic, I found myself overwhelmed by the excessive, overwrought political machinations of both the Star Kingdom and the Peeps. I was surprised to find Honor being diminished by her childish bad-mouthing the current Manticoran government of the, albeit, spineless, corrupt incompetents like Baron High Ridge, Descroix, New Kiev, Admiral Janascek, etc. Yes, they deserved it, but Weber has created Honor as a verbally elegant, sensitive and conscious iconic being whose very professional impartiality has always spoken volumes in itself.<br />Weber has clearly outlined how politics continues to sabotage foreign and domestic relations, create both wars and strange bedfellows even in futuristic worlds that some of us have daydreamed would be free of the contamination of greedy, power drunk politicians with their corrupt agendas. The Peeps Secretary of State Giancola and his Machiavellian manipulation of President Pritchart represent a dark mirror image of the behavior of the   Star Kingdom's High Ridge, et al.  This is scary to contemplate and to extrapolate into a possible context of our own nation. It stimulates all sorts of questions and concerns that fairly leap to mind.<br />Secondly, I think that Honor deserves a meaningful relationship in her life. According to the timelines of this book, she is in her 60 T-years, and despite Prolong, her tortured yearning for the Earl of White Haven seemed a bit adolescent as presented. I think that Andrew La Follett, who is clearly obsessed with her, would be a better option for her.  Unless David finds a truly sympathetic way to eliminate Emily White Haven from the love triangle other than through her approval of a covert affair between her husband and Honor the story line will continue to be frustrating for some of us female fans who want Honor to either get the guy or getthehelloutathere, all issues of morality aside.<br />I am glad that Weber has made the Andermani and the Star Kingdom colleagues in the War against the Peeps.  Plus, the additional tantalizing plot lines like the discovery of a new Junction Terminus leading to Lynx and its inhabited Talbott Star Cluster will, hopefully, provide at least a dozen more books for us to scarf up. As a guess, the next story arch could begin a move toward the long hinted at beginning of a confrontation with the Sollies, once the Manticore and Andermani slug the Peeps back into line for a time. This 10th book tantalizes us with the idea of new conflicts with the ConFeds over the territorial and governmental issues surrounding the corrupt Sillies, Silesians;  the newly formed alignment between the Peeps and Eherwonese and whomever else pops up into the mix of David's outstanding and exciting futuristic fantasy. I love this series. It is tha' best!	2002-11-26
US	52489456	R3PJ0DVXCVIEY	0765343274	798059063	The King's Peace (Sulien)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Refreshing and Empowering to Women	I happen to adore strong women warrior tales and this book is one that truly satisfies with Sulien ap Gwien as a tough as nails, trustworthy as sunlight and unquestioningly loyal soldier in the king's army. The story reflects a P.O.V. that has been lost in other testosterone laden yarns of Arthurian mythology where women are polarized into dimwitted servants or charwomen, fragile little darlings, perfumed ladies of the night, tavern girls as rape bait or as witches. Sulien is none of the above. I don't agree with the negative reviews that this tale is unoriginal and boring.  It is neither. It is, in fact, quite empowering to women and, refreshingly, not a rerun of the psuedomythology of Arthurian Britian that permeates too many other books that claim \\"scholarly credentials\\".  Does anyone truly \\"know\\" whether Arthur really lived, that Merlin, Camelot, etc. were in fact a reality rather than a compilation of many kings, many wars or merely a figment of the overheated mind of a bard whose livelihood depended upon such masterful tales?  Gossip always improves especially when fuled by copious amounts of mead and ale.<br />The story matters and Jo Walton does an excellent job creating a believable reality with all the rawness of those allegedly barbaric times.  We don't really know, we weren't there, so why not relax, be entertained with a well written novel. Who cares if it is \\"historically accurate\\" or not. The characters remain in the memory, the vicarious thrills for women readers is quite a lot of fun to relive \\"as if\\" in one's imagination and, in the end,isn't that all that counts in engaging fiction?  I liked the book a lot and look forward to the sequel.	2002-09-08
US	52489456	R2C4SOH786JUZ1	0373483880	675709450	The Macgregors; Serena, Caine-(2 Books in One)	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Formulaic	I too found the MacGregor patriarch blustering, interfering,   overbearing, manipulative and utterly unappealing.  It would be intolerable to have such a parent in real life, yet, there are those such people.  It was also difficult to understand the passivity and muteness of Anna MacGregor, the childrens' mother who is allegedly a brilliant surgeon utterly capable of excellence in her professional role.  But then, in the presence of such a blowhard husband like Daniel the poor woman may not be able to get a word in edgewise.<br />I like the strong female roles that both Serena and Diana are cast into in their search for meaning in their lives.  I did not like the rapist men either Justin or Caine.  I did like the fact that both females sort of \\"consented\\" to sexual congress rather than being rendered defenseless and overwhelmed as other authors usually force their damsels in distress to endure.  Also I liked the elegant style which Ms. Roberts describes sexual encounters.  None of the trite and vulgar or graphic blow by blow in these  action scenes.  Nope, teasing and innuendo are far more potent forces to stimulate the reader which makes this author's books a far more classy read than many romance fiction writers today who find it necessary for the damsel to describe the \\"bigness\\" of the male's anatomy and physiology.  In this author's book, the only one I have read, the males are realistic and flawed which is a nice change from steely jawed, athletically superior supermen types.<br />The contrast of the secure Serena and the insecure Diana represent the virtues of tight family ties vs absence of loving support in Diana's case while she was growing up.  It was an interesting topic finding a heroine fighting the ghosts of a defective past and struggling to overcome them. This made the Caine story much more engaging because he was such a buffoon.  All in all it is a nice little walk through Scottish roots and<BR>influences.	2002-09-06
US	52489456	RF5WZWZRFEQ2M	0061020257	616600274	Metaplanetary: A Novel of Interplanetary Civil War	Books	1	6	15	N	Y	Would make a nice Sci-Fi TV series	The two main stumbling blocks that brought me to abandon this novel at page 67 was the scifico-babble (similar to psychobabble) terms like &quot;grist&quot;, that are not defined up front or somewhere close to the beginning of the book, and, for me, the necessary ingredient of clarity/coherence. The reader is forced to jump in  and immediately believe the alien concepts of life forms in the far distant future without a &quot;glossary of terms&quot; as it were that  enhance the reading experience from page one. I regret that  tossing the reader into the incomprehensible does not work for me.	2002-09-03
US	52489456	RA38CYLA67UXJ	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is true sci fi	I was impressed with the cosmological inventiveness of the author. Pham Nuwen is reincarnated or reconstructed from a wreck of human body parts from starfarers in some ancient past in slow time. Pham is inhabited by a \\"Power\\" who animates his actions and reactions and has buried within his mental processes a program that will somehow save the world. In the preceeding spider novel \\"A Deepness in the Sky\\" Pham was a likeable, bluff and gruff ancient starfarer rescued and reanimated by the Queq Ho in that story so it was a bit of a problem to believe him as a young, virile humanoid character in this saga. But then, that is one of the delicious challenges of sci fi - suspending one's point of reference - and this book was worth the effort.<br />Jefri and Johanna are orphaned children from a starship that crash landed on an alien planet and are caught in an alien net of political and private dynastic warfare.  They have no adult referent apart from the alien creatures whom they called \\"tines\\" who had killed their parents and captured these two children. They are thrust unwillingly into adult roles and 8 year old Jefri also has the added responsibility for the care and maintenance of 127 other children still suspended in cold stasis on the starship all throughout the tines' warfare. The thought of this was especially eerie. The novel invites the reader to explore philosophical issues of xenophobia, helplessness, reincarnation and nanomedicine as well as offering up a stunning chase across the universe by human hating zealots bent on destroying the last human to a man because they believe that the humans had reanimated a weapon of mass destruction from an ancient computer proram. It also invites the reader to explore the devastation and horror wrought by computer viruses designed by an unknown technological society far advanced of what we can imagine today. This book is chilling in many ways. An excellent read.	2002-07-17
US	52489456	RL5VDCY08O6P6	0765303582	164593090	Shadowsinger (Spellsong Cycle)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Satisfying Conclusion	I read both book 4, Shadow Sorcceress and book 5 Shadow Singer  in tandem which was helpful in keeping the story line fresh to mind. Initially, at the beginning of this series, I found it a stretch to believe in song sorcery, but Modesitt makes the concept viable through his engaging characters and fascinating worlds that he creates. I was glad to see the development of both the female sorcerer Ashtaar in Wei, and the Maitre of Neserea who had been neglected in the 3 earlier books except for brief mention scattered throughout them.In my opinion, this series is much more a woman's read because of strong female characters who exhibit strength and true power.<br />It was sad when Lady Ana died, but the firey redhead Lady Secca through several near death experiences is able to succeed albeit much devastation results from her self doubt and trial and error battles to overcome the sea priests' invasion and conquest of their lands. The introduction of a male sorcerer who becomes her husband is a welcome addition to her life and to the story line for it balances the concept of power sharing among the genders who inhabit this magical land and offsets the alienation by the male rulers and land holders who, feeling threatened, fight her every step of the way while she is trying to save their bacon.<BR> <BR>The reason for the deterioration of rulership by JimBob/Lord Robero remained unclear to the end.  His motivations were suspect, but was he merely stupid or simply greedy?  In any event, the conclusion and his comeuppance was fitting and the author created a logical and satisfying closure to a fascinating saga.	2002-04-22
US	52489456	R3AU2A7U52SNO3	0312873875	243124173	Mistress of the Catacombs (Lord of the Isles, Book 4)	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Action and Reaction	This 4th book in the series is one that I think could have been left out of the story arc for it really doesn't expand the character development and goals of Garric to unite the kingdoms or go anywhere in the big picture until the last few sentences where he decides to place his father as regional ruler of the his home island Haft.<br />Like Janny Wurts' recent Peril's Gate, so too does this book spends its entire length (467 pages) tracking the heroes'(mostly supernatural) coming and going from point A to point B resulting in nothing much being developed in the story line apart from bloody battles to conquer a warring population and make them subsurvient to King Garric's rule. There is very little insight provided into the main characters' real motivations and personal growth as they confront the conflicts thrust upon them. They are becoming boring and that is not a place where the reader wants to be at this stage of the saga. King Carus' takeover of body and mind was the most interesting development in Garric's story line.<br />I would like to see deepening of characters like the lovelorn and terribly conflicted Ilna who, despite her superhuman abilities, has a richness of character than I find attractive and very compelling. She is my favorite for her very human eccentriticies and crankiness. Cashel, Liane and Sharina are almost too good to be true and renders them somewhat monochromatic to this reader. <br />I like Drake's writing style immensely and have enjoyed the three books preceeding this one.I do hope he juices up character development to make this a more challenging and satisfying feast in the next installment of this series.	2002-04-22
US	52489456	R1L04ENFY9PAVL	0061052205	343857283	Peril's Gate (Wars of Light and Shadow, Book 6)	Books	1	1	5	N	Y	Pretentious, Overwrought and Exhausting	Stilted language, scant action, nothing new. The hero Arithon has been rendered by the author as a whining cry baby who, despite his magical abilities, cannot seem to get it together and save himself. This story describes his struggle to get from point A to point B throughout nearly 700 pages. This reader estimates that 400 pages are scenery descriptions.  <br />The excuse for Arithon's misery is that he is being driven by the geas of the Mistwraith Curse. Arithon's girlfriend, Elaira, while safe at Whitehaven,is in a dream state far removed from Arithon's trial while he undergoes imaginary deaths and struggles and moans, whimpers, sobs, cries, weeps and so on. She is \\"remote viewing\\" and snivveling right along with him. An example of the overworked prose is as follows:'\\"Oh, cry mercy!\\" whispered Elaira. Ribbons of tears coursed down her dreaming cheeks.' Dreaming cheeks? All the characters talk in the same convoluted stilted high toned language style, including the illiterate goatherd forced to look like Arithon through magical mean.  This  puts him in the same \\"class\\" as the educated Arithon and Lysaer, Sethvir and others and is simply unbelievable. They are all reduced to one dimensional beings as a result of such pretentious prose. Every one of the characters from high Mage Sethvir to Dakkar are all dying or near death and this grim saga offers no light at the end of the tunnel. It is this reader's opinion that Peril's Gate could have been left out of the story arc entirely.	2002-04-20
US	52489456	R25MFM1CYOIZVG	0812571924	434873155	The Stars Asunder: A New Novel of the Mageworlds	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A fascinating SF series	...For myself, I love stories about magic and super alternative universes. In this book a tough subject of how much mages must devote of themselves in order to effect the desired magical result is addressed. This includes sacrifice of one's life due to their belief that blood is a powerful enhancer of magic rituals.(a notion founded in pagan lore). Apparently the act of physically striking at/upon one another with magically enhanced wooden staves enables them to create the kinetic energy that will knit the \\"eiran\\" and create a weave that aids their people in achieving a form of harmonic balance in their universe, even with the bad guys stirring up mischief. The authors' use of the term \\"Eiran\\" suggests \\"aura\\" or \\"ley lines\\", used in  metaphysical literature.<br />The story shows a certain politeness in piracy and interstellar business dealings, rather like a good ole boy's club that offers a wink and a nod to ripping each other off. It appears to be a rite of passage or gamemanship mutually agreed upon to enhance the wealth and power of the reining star lords. The pirates take turns boarding one another's vessel to steal their cargo which is all executed with good humor and jovial camraderie. (after all the insurance carrier will have to pony up for the losses). These acts of piracy are then followed by a blow out party onboard the ship undergoing piracy. For this reader, the analogies to current day politics is quite inescapably clear. <br />This is the first book that I have read in this space opera series and I am looking forward to the follow up book \\"A Working of Stars\\" which promises more of the magic and machinations of this fascinating Mageworld.	2002-01-25
US	52489456	R3JJ1RX15XUM8E	0671318608	248449563	The Excalibur Alternative	Books	5	26	32	N	Y	Subtle and Intriguing	I do not agree with any of the reviewers who bombed this book. It is a wonderfully subtle and thoughtful story that stretches the imagination of a reader inventive enough to look at the many levels and shadings of the tale. The premise is that of a primitive english lord caught up, literally, in an alternative universe and forced to serve as a slave for hundreds of years in an environment that is beyond his wildest nightmares. How he holds his sanity and his fellow survivors together is a subtext that teaches heroism at its highest level as well as the gift of incredible adaptability of human intelligence to grow beyond predictable boundaries arbitrarily set by culture, time and old expectations. The theme is very inspiring for it shows how one can &quot;push the envelope&quot; of imagination and accept the impossible. For me the tale was a metaphor for humanity's greatness.  <br />David Weber, among his many gifts as a writer creates excellent dialog and his worlds are peopled with both intellectually and emotionally stirring characters. Sir George represents the strength of humanity, its honor, courage, bravery and integrity. Weber offers these qualities as reminders of the costs to the soul when challenged to overcome xenophobia. Imagine accepting a 3 eyed, dual mouth, purple furred entity as one's boss, or a scaled, reptilian creature as one's ally and best friend. Just as H. G. Wells challenged us to imagine a future world that has long since come to pass, so too, David challenges us to stretch beyond our own limitations and perceptions and imagine the &quot;what if&quot; that could some day become the &quot;as is&quot;. <br />I particularly liked his gradual bringing about the shift in consciousness and learning for Sir George and his evolution from primitive to techno geek, a metaphor for our present world where countless people in other countries have never heard of or used a computer. Sir George's perception of &quot;computer&quot; as a sentient being whomhe calls &quot;he&quot; is also a harbinger for AI technology that will be part of our everyday use reality soon enough. What a trip that will be.<br />For this reader, the reverence of british culture and traditions held by Sir George who names his empire Avalon, his flag ship Excaliber and uses hereditary titles for his subjects adds a sense of timelessness that also serves as an anchor that unites real time to space/time. Concepts of nanotech for medical and longevity purposes and human cloning to populate other worlds  really challenge one to think of these potentialities and prejudices. This book is engaging, deep and worth the effort to read it carefully rather than gulp it down. There are many levels of insight and foresight that are worth being explored and I am intrigued by the notion of where this story could go from here as a new and strong heroine, Admiral Her Imperial Highness Princess Evelynn Wincaster, the commander of Third Fleet has appeared in the story. I would love to see her evolve as Honor Harrington has in that wonderful series.	2002-01-19
US	52489456	R3FLOFH6HJL28A	0765302020	648432857	The Man Who Fought Alone	Books	4	3	7	N	Y	Terrifically Tense and Intense	Donaldson is definitely one of my favorite authors and I especially enjoyed his slamming, futuristic sci/fi Gap Series. This new book is written with the same intensity that I have come to appreciate so much about Donaldson's style. He grabs your attention in any number of ways and hangs on to it with plot twists and turns that he spins in a very hip way of expressing his characters' flaws and fortunes.  Axbrewder &quot;Brew&quot; is both likeable and contemptible.  He is full of flaws and fire, fear and fearlessness and his struggle to find himself now unattached at the hip from his former partner Ginny and on his own to face his co-dependency and the myriad storms of feelings over what he perceives as a form of abandonment leaves him floundering and needy both physically and psychologically. These burdens add a large dose of bitters to the task of finding his identity as a sole provider for himself at the work he is best able to do and to undo. I loved the constant tension of wondering where or when he would mess up next.  <br />SRD paints his characters with brilliant brush strokes that leave a reader in no doubt as to what makes them tick. Additionally, I  appreciated the learning curve offered by the author in this book that really helps one's understanding of the real and the more esoteric practices of the martial arts.  It is a subject that can be pretty confusing unless one is involved in that area of study. <br />The plot was fairly straightforward and I knew about the first third of the book who the &quot;villan&quot; would be.  This was an interesting twist in his style for the reader to have the CLUE, while the hero was left to navigate the minefields of being clueless which the author dressed up as hunches.  Nice touch. All in all, I have to say that I like &quot;Brew&quot; a lot as a character and hope to see him around again.  And again.  Thanks for a cool yarn SRD!	2002-01-10
US	52489456	R38NO9UNAC9Q6W	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Surprise	Well, it was time for some new perspective and the author has provided it with several new characters, the annoying, self absorbed, whining cry baby Jennsen and the brutally savage, self absorbed, psychopathic Oba. And, they both experience wierd voices in their heads that lead them to believe that they are invincible and after the same goal which is to eliminate our hero, Richard.  Hmmm.  This poor guy has the worst karma.<br />For me, it was disappointing to find that Richard and Kahlan are only in the last 50 pages of the 557 paged book.  After enduring the paranoid delusions of Jennsen and Oba, I found that I began to experience the urge to skip through the book until the hero appeared once again. Personally, I did not care in the least for these two new characters, and I do hope Oba will be truly dead in the desert and not rescued by the underworld hearthounds or some other minions of evil.  As for Jennsen, I hope that she marries Tom and takes her little goats and lives happily ever after in some tiny town that Richard and Kahlan rarely visit.<br />The best part of the book for me was the magical battle at the Confessor's Palace where Zed and Addie blew the amps of the Emperor Jagang and his troops. I liked the scene where Jagang saw the head of Brother Narev mounted on a pole outside of the Palace. That &quot;message&quot; had to shake the foundations of his religious crusade. I found myself hoping that he got nailed once and for all during the magical battle, for he is truly tiresome now.<br />Terry is such a good writer that I want to see him show his chops in something new and fresh.  This book was very well written and I really enjoy his philosophy, but, for me, it is a wrap by now. In the words of Captain Picard, Mr. Goodkind: &quot;Make it So&quot;.	2002-01-03
US	52489456	R2ZYKK5ABDQJG3	0345441788	602895896	The Forest	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Exquisite stories	If you have not read this author's other books, London and Sarum please do so for they are as outstanding as is this newest book by a wonderful author and historian.<br />I don't know when I have enjoyed history as much for Rutherfurd tells it in the most beguiling ways through stories of real people, their trials, loves and losses.  At times one can find tears flowing because they are so poignant and heartbreaking yet one is left with a marvellous sense of seeing history and tradition so revered by our British friends lovingly revealed here.  It is difficult to put this book down for many reasons.  Each story in each period of time that he writes of has so many nuances that one may want to race through the pages, yet, it is not the best course for a lot of information relevant to the foundation of the early settlement of America by British colonists becomes increasingly clear and a new respect for the traditions our own American land are wonderful to recognize.<br />What is especially delightful is the story of those early forest dwellers, both human and animal. The reader is brought to a keen awareness of how deeply Britians revere their land and their ancestral roots that trace backwards into antiquity and are still present throughout countless descendants who carry on a reverent legacy of respect and love for their great forests.  From shipbuilding timber to charcoal to wood for heating and cooking,to acorns and other benefice for the animals, the forest is an everlasting symbol of nurturance and as an invaluable resource for their life and livelihood.<br />This book is a marvellous Christmas, Birthday, or general gift to a person whom you love and know is an avid book reader, and a guarantee that the recepient will be well pleased.  You may find that you may want to read it yourself.  And then read his other books for a continuation of his vast knowledge and delicious storytelling vignettes of life as we can only imagine it was in the British Islands over the past thousand or so years.  A wonderful journey.	2001-12-12
US	52489456	R22SGI06HIAKJ1	0738801526	318910510	The King of Vinland's Saga	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Good Historical Saga	Mr. Mirsky read my reviews of several other historical books and emailed me to see if I would read his book. I was honored by his request and happy to do so for I really like historical fiction.<br />This book is written with total integrity of tone and style of communication. It is stark and very straight forward which I appreciated for the author did not spoil the saga with modern styles of speech or cant. Neither does he get trite or phony as he describes events of that time and place for which he deserves many accolades in my opinion.<br />I enjoyed learning about the little known geography of Greenland and its inhabitants and their greedy territorality which is a powerful force in this saga. Sigtrygg, the &quot;hero&quot; is a descendant of Leif Eiriksson. He has to endure one impossible task after another to win his true inheritance which was stolen from his father, Thorgils, and himself by other Leifssons in Greenland. Sigtrygg faces rejection by his kinsmen because he is the illegitimate son of an illegitimate son of Leif Eiriksson from a summer encounter with a woman from the Hebrides. Thorgils finds himself unable to live the life of a farmer in Greenland, and instead spends his life roaming the ice and hunting for his livelihood as well as fathering a son with a native woman. Sigtrygg, is both sympathetic, mule headed, heroic and definitely a leader of men. Poor guy, if only he could overcome his appalling bad luck.<br />This fascinating story centers around Sigtrygg's conquest of a far distant island called Vinland originally discovered by Leif Eirickson. He trades Thorgil's farm with his greedy kinsmen for Vinland which is held in little value by the other Leifssons. Upon arrival Sigtrygg finds that he and his companions must engage the support of one group of natives in order to live there compatibly. However, during the course of his effort he is forced to battle with the native king of Vinland who is a vicious warrior and slaver. When he returns to Leif Eiricksson's houses on the coast of Vinland he discovers that he has been invaded by the arrival of his &quot;kin&quot; bent on retribution for alleged grievances over his departure from Greenland who are there to settle accounts according to their wishes and to take away his ship and to harvest riches from the land, as well as to claim his property and homes there for themselves.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book. I found the old viking Vragi to be one of the most fascinating and enigmatic characters of the story. The author has a fine way of making one care about his characters which is a real treat for the reader.Leif Eiricksson's houses on the coast of Vinland he discovers that he has been invaded by the arrival of his &quot;kin&quot; bent on retribution for alleged grievances over his departure from Greenland who are there to settle accounts according to their wishes and to take away his ship and to harvest riches from the land, as well as to claim his property and homes there for themselves. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book. I found the old viking Vragi to be one of the most fascinating and enigmatic characters of the story. The author has a fine way of making one care about his characters which is a real treat for the reader.	2001-10-01
US	52489456	RWRMT2K6G02SZ	0451455673	691823276	The Last Star at Dawn: Book Three of the Lightbringer Trilogy	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Delightfully ghoulish	Mr. Johnson really knows how to tell a ghoulish, yet engaging tale. A fascinating trilogy, one should start with book one &quot;The forging of the shadows&quot;, then &quot;The nations of the night&quot; before tackling this one. Otherwise it leaves gaps in the flow of the story, although the author does &quot;update&quot; one within the first few chapters. I felt enormous empathy toward the badly burned, utterly isolated priest of Reh (their sun god of Light). The priest, Urthred, is forced to wear a mask and special gloves to cover his burned face and hands and is the wonderful hero of this saga. His devastating experience with such immense pain has created within him a wellspring of compassion and strength that are remarkable in contrast to Thalassa, the self absorbed heroine whom prophecy has foretold would be the Lightbringer. Her task is, through some great act, to reanimate the dying sun caused by the evil forces in their world. Personally I prefer strong women and for me Thalassa, so full of doubt and self pity was the one weak link in an otherwise strong cast of characters.<br />The only other problem I had with these otherwise excellent books is Mr. Johnson's use of words that force a reader to grab the dictionary. However, I very much liked the mix of primitive culture contrasted to the sci fi notion of the &quot;gods&quot; coming from the stars in their &quot;metal dragons&quot; (a metaphor for space ships). The war of good vs evil/light vs darkness is enhanced by the author's facility in not hammering religion down one's throat on the assumption that everyone in the (readers') world is a christian or whatever. There is a subtle injunction for the reader to look at self accountability vs being an unwilling participant tossed about by the everchanging whims of the gods.<br />The story illustrated the power of the individual's &quot;ego&quot; (free will) to make choices based upon the drives of his/her &quot;id&quot; (the subconscious mind or baser levelsof humanity) and make them real for better or for worse. For example: as the archetypal bad guy, Faran Gaton Nekron if filled with rampaging jealousy, resentment, hatred and warped lusts. He manifests his vindictive revenge and sick needs into hideous annhilation of everyone whom he cannot conquer. He claims that he is doing the Worm God Iss' will, but in fact it is Faran's own dark and destructive desires disguised as &quot;religion&quot;. This conflict creates an astonishing amount of tension which is so vital to the tenor of excellence in a horror story.<br />This saga shows the shadow or nihlistic part of human nature (jealousy, greed, hate, revenge, etc.) as contrasted to the higher nature of mankind's drive toward the light and love that creates and sustains all life. There are many layers to Mr. Johnson's genius and this trilogy, albeit more than gruesome at times, that indeed stimulates deeper levels of thought, plus rereading in the future.	2001-09-08
US	52489456	R1M925PMD6Z3A4	0441008305	573642412	Astrologer 2, The: Wayward Moon	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Unbelievable and Funky	Here is a book that overtly attempts to legitimize  metaphysical astrological/tarot-like card divination as a valid science for character reading and murder solving in future time.  Who knows, it might work.<br />However, scepticism prevailed and for this reader    disconnection started with the book cover which shows a sexy blonde in a tight blue skin suit yet the author has her dressed in cammies, (camoflage suits) throughout the story.  Hmmm.  Then,  a lot of time is wasted with the heroine talking East London trash/slang that  the author infers as &quot;Sloane Ranger&quot; by her reference to Sloane.  She repeatedly introduces this slang at inappropriate times and shrugs it off glibly as &quot;nervous&quot; reaction to stress in the trying situations she faces.  It is very distracting, especially when the aliens in the story are seemingly more intelligent and literate than the heroine is in fact.  Yes, it is a given that one must suspend any judgement and expectations when reading Sci Fi, but it is helpful to make the heroine &quot;sound&quot;  somewhat knowledgeable and intelligent if the reader is to fully engage and stay involved in the story.   The Emperor Theo is greedy, totally selfish, manipulative, etc.  OK.  Well,  what I want to know is what did Theo do to these two that so popped their corks and sent them into orbit that they want to kill the Emperor or sabotage their mission for no really concrete reason?  In future time there are different risks and falling into the hands of aliens who place implants in their bodies, as happened in this story, could be a risk and  part of the territory that star warriors might experience aren't they?<br />Another fascinating theme that was ignored were the dark holes in space around the fascinating planet that was destroyed when its moon moved out of orbit.   <br />I did like the idea of morphing into &quot;atoms&quot; and transiting space as the coral colored aliens were capable of doing.  I also liked the science/quasi spiritual notions that the author posited and offered a veritable literary feast in this story line yet were also glossed over. <br />The real source of my disconnection in this tale was the heroine's attitude toward the aliens whom she continually   called &quot;metal heads&quot; and other negative terms because of their half carbon, half artificial genetic physiology and morphology.  This is really really xenophobic and I personally don't like thinking in that way because it fosters bigotry which is another issue in this book that was quite overt.<br />In fairness, maybe it  seemed &quot;cute&quot; to sling slang and drag the baggage of bigotry into future time.  But, for me, that doesn't  work at any level.    Authors such as David Weber,   etc can spin a good tale without such heavy handed negativity .  Who knows, maybe humans appear moronic and hideous to other species in the galaxy and that is massively uncool to think that  we might be viewed that way.   <br />For me one of the most powerful tools of this genre is to open one's mind to all possibilities and potentialities as we evolve into a new era in which our future generations will experience realities that are now only science fiction rather than iris the portals shut with narrow, antiquated biases.	2001-07-24
US	52489456	R1UJM5RE5XKPDL	0553801813	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Engaging and Irritating	Ms. Feather is a terrific author who writes stories that are well researched, full of intrigue and romance, history and engaging characters.<br />Except that each book that I have read she seems to have to include one character who is guaranteed to drive you to distraction with irritating characteristics.  In this story it is the 8 or 9 year old daughter Pippa who positively cannot shut up.  Pippa piped, Pippa fluted, Pippa trumpeted or screeched or shrilled, etc. etc.  The Pippa dialog is so often and so aggravating that I found myself skipping whole paragraphs when she used the name Pippa.  This is not good for one loses the continuity of the story.  <br />On a positive note, I did enjoy the history of 16th Century England during the mercurial, hugely obese and clever Henry VIII reign and all his poor wives who could not seem to provide him with a male heir.  I would have enjoyed more information on the Star Chamber and Thomas Cromwell who was a terrible villian according to recorded history.<br />Ms. Feather has a real penchant for strong, nurturing, rough edged males as her heros.  Well so do I. However, once again she has given us a heroine who is drop dead gorgeous, hugely flawed, conniving and quite difficult to feel much sympathy for in the story line.  It was nice that she made the Lady Guinevere an intelligent and learned woman despite her obstinancy and intransiegence.<br />All in all, the story is interesting and Ms. Feather is  becoming more elegant and refined with each book.  I very much appreciate her breaking from the mold of most of the other romance writers who seem to need to refer to the male anatomy in cutesy or military language, ie: swords, etc.  She uses the correct biological term which adds a great amount of intellectual credibility as a writer.<br />She remains on my list of writers who are closing the gap in skill as great as the incomparable Guy Gavriel Kay.	2001-07-13
US	52489456	R5PLA65FIDTWO	0553573705	628645819	Almost Innocent	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Fantastic Hero, Unfortunate Heroine	It is puzzling that a writer as talented as Ms. Feather would consciously choose to portray her heroine Magdalen as such a self absorbed, narcissistic, ignorant, rebellious character with zero sense of morality. This is a disservice to women, both now and then, and one has to remind oneself that this tale is set in a period of time that was equally barbaric and chivalrous, at least on the part of the knights charged with the safety of the realm and its peoples.<br />Magdalen's lover and protector, Guy de Gervais, is a truly nurturing and loving man despite the fact that he has at &quot;un pointe non plus&quot; slapped her to remind her that her wilful disobedience gravely threatens Guy's task to keep her safe from harm that was placed upon him by her father, the Prince John of Gaunt. At issue is an uneasy truce between England and France that governs the political balance of power and she is a major player.<br />She is utterly absorbed in her passions and physical neediness, rendering her extraordinarily unlikeable.  Yet, this may reveal the realities of women in that era, who is to say?      The tale is a fascinating slice of history which makes it worthwhile reading for this fact alone. I do hope that in the future Ms. Feather makes her heroines more sympathetic, because, in all fairness, she is nearly as gifted as Guy Gavriel Kay in her ability to evoke the reader's deepest involvement with her characters which makes the story unforgettable on many levels.	2001-06-01
US	52489456	RSONM82F2F2JZ	051512883X	494543365	My Dark Prince	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Passionate,Compelling Romantic Intrigue	My Dark Prince is a truly haunting story of romance and terror, tyranny and pathos in an immense struggle for a throne....  <br />Ms. Ross is a Scots woman with a gorgeous, lyrical voice and writing style.  She has created a tale around issues that are timeless and she brings them to life in a truly fresh, compelling and passionate way.  I will not forget this book any time soon for it is written with such compassion and empathic understanding of the human condition of suffering. Through her prose, she touches the heart with the beneficent promise of healing via the enternal quest toward loving and being loved.  It is a stunning and magnificent journey.	2001-05-19
US	52489456	R3O93603949JWB	0821767836	865210007	Much Obliged (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Devilishly Engaging Regency Romp	Ah, Saturday.  And a perky little book to wile away the time while awash in a rainy day outside and laundry day inside.  So, what to do but read while-u-wait.  Here is a wickedly humorous quickie by a new author, who, if she sticks to her own devilishly engaging and very hip style of writing about intellectually empowered women who know what they want, yes, even in Regency England, will become quite successful in a genre otherwise all too full of vapid, victimized, damsels-in-distress which, to this reader is soo boring.<br />The heroine in this tale is Addie who is betrothed by arrangement to her lifelong heartthrob the naughty &quot;rake&quot; John Fitzwilliam,   Earl of Claremont.  The Earl, however, still has a whole bushelful or two of wild oats to sow and wants no part of marriage for he is content with his lightskirt du jour and relishes his freedom and bachelorhood.  Yes, he would &quot;do right&quot; by Addie, &quot;only if&quot;, but he really would prefer that she release him from the marriage contract that was brought about by their respective parents, and for her to move on and get married to someone else.<br />So he arranges an evening out with Addie and family to facilitate the romance between her sister and his best friend Drew, respectably accompanied by their maiden aunt.  They all go to a Winter Festival at the notorious Vauxhall where he believes that during a private moment he can ask her to set aside their arranged future marriage.  She assents, but, as she reviews their near impoverished conditions brought about by the bad fiscal management of her late father, she believes herself forced to accept a proposal from a former suitor the really repellant, albeit rich, and totally hypochondriacal Wallace Raines who is doing a rerun for a bride and offers again for her hand.  Alas, she is completely unsuited for this medieval-minded moron, and in her heartbreak over losing Fitzwilliam she attempts to convince herself that she was right to accept theundesirable suitor in order to preserve her security and reputation.  Her conflict is  hightened by her secret source of income garnered from her highly successful &quot;illicit&quot; writing skills as an anonymous &quot;gossip&quot; columnist which may be discovered by society and ruin any marital prospects for herself, her sister or her aunt.<br />But, Fitzwilliam, in a moment of lust kisses Addie and begins to wrestle with a burgeoning conflict heretofore unknown to him.  He realizes that he is slowly falling &quot;in like&quot; and then into love with her and, much to his dismay, wakes up to smell the coffee after she has betrothed herself to dear Wallace and his ever present, controlling mother. Literally.<br />The plot is fairly predictable but the hilarious dialog and madcap twists and turns by the adorably likable and well suited  hero and heroine makes this story quite amusing as they attempt to untangle themselves from the misbegotten mess that they have each created respectively.  Much Obliged is the second novel by Ms. Benson and according to other reviews her first book Lord Stanhope's Proposal is even funnier.  This one is an unstuffy, laugh out loud jaunt into a period of time that, although we can no longer relate to in our modern lifestyle, delights nonetheless for its outrageously clever spin on that era and the eternal joys of youthful love and lust.	2001-05-01
US	52489456	R2WK26E28H4CU5	0671578758	536718183	Lt. Leary, Commanding	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Witty, Gritty and Wild	Here is a hero that you just gotta love because he is so cool.  Lt. Leary is a real hot dog space jock with brains, political savvy and lots of clout connection wise. And, (like David Weber's \\"Salamander\\" Honor Harrington), this risk taker is not afraid of the heat. As a naval officer of Cinnebar's RCN, Leary sails into one blazing battle after another that scorches both his hull and hide when his senior commanding officer decides to set him up and shoot him down in acts that are fostered by the commander's judgemental, self righteous machinations.<br />The contrast of Leary's controlled fire with the ice floes of his Signals Officer Adele Mundy provides a powerful synergy that tantalizes and challenges them both although neither will admit it.  Nor will they admit their emerging alchemy that provides a nice sub text to the intensity of each character and their personal battles which are superimposed upon the military ones. Their purported assignment is to patrol a certain area of space   used by commercial freighters from the depredations brought about by space pirates. As unwitting hosts to an exiled ruler of an allied world who boards the Princess Cecile illegally, Leary and crew get caught up in a wild and disasterous political plot wherein they are forced to align with and to fight their way out of a politically motivated trap alongside the very pirates whom they were sent to dispatch.<br />Drake is a real wizard in populating his stories with gritty,  fascinating people and they are written in such a way as to leave a lasting mark on one's memory.  His battle action and tech head stuff is so riveting that even those of us who have never been in the military can get into his stories and \\"be there\\" whether he is ...with the political movers and shakers,or blazing outathere in his snazzy corvette. Big Time.<br />Drake is also very skilled at showing the shadow side of his main characters through their counterparts the \\"outdoorsman\\" Hogg who is Lt. Leary's manservant, and Tovera the brilliant \\"sociopath\\" who serves her mistress Adele.  They add considerable wit and tension to this top flight military sci-fi adventure. And, it is this reader's hope that Drake will continue the action in future Lt. Leary books because, for this reader, it's not over yet, not by a long shot.  An immensely enjoyable saga.	2001-04-18
US	52489456	R1X47Z1EPM5RWL	0312873794	17144504	Scion of Cyador (Saga of Recluce)	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Outstanding!	This follow up to Magi'i of Cyador is simply outstanding. The poetry and logic which coexist harmoniously throughout this book are a constant source of inspiration that offers the reader a chance for thoughtful meditation on larger issues which this story addresses.  For me, this speaks to the superb quality of the author's skill and his intelligence that simply pours off the pages and into one's consciousness.<br />The stilted style of speaking by the characters is so necessary to the overall meaning of the cold, logical thinking by these descendents of the &quot;rational stars&quot; and the omnipresence of the magi'i who colonized this fictional world. Part of the chilling power of this tale is that which is exercised by the magi'i who control everyone through their occult chaos power and the threat of chaos screeing glasses that offer little if any freedom or privacy throughout Cyad and Candar.  It gives a real clear picture of what a &quot;big brother&quot; looking over one's shoulder might be and it is scary.<br />The softer side of the hero Lorn is almost too good to be true, and yet, he is a cold blooded killer and defender of the land and its people.  His trials and tribulations are immense and he is able to survive through his intellect and tactical cleverness as an officer of the Mirror Lancers.  His consort Ryalth has a much more active presence in this book which is a welcome shift from the blood and gore battles although there are plenty of those too.  The addition of an infant son adds a very nice human dimension that one can relate to even during the heat of the power struggles between the merchant factions, the Lancers on the make for promotion and the magi'i who seek even greater control as the chaos towers begin to fail one after another. After all he has been through as a Mirror Lancer, Lorn receives a well deserved reward, and I hope that Modesitt continues this series wherein he tells about Lorn's reign and the machinations of those who would challenge his power and I for one would like to see how he develops as a mage, man, husband, father and emperor.  All in all for this reviewer it was a terrifically rewarding read.	2001-04-15
US	52489456	R3IEU20JOB9G5L	0671319752	272498178	Changer of Worlds (Worlds of Honor #3)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Tantalizing Tidbits	Like many others addicted to the Honor Harrington series, I was drooling over the prospects of savoring the latest addition to Weber's engaging feast of antics and action by a ballsy, totally entrancing heroine in futuristic space fiction.<br />I especially enjoyed the riveting &quot;From the Highlands&quot; by Eric Flint that provides quite a different angle on the aggressive, covert machinations of a highly developed underground where a  Manticoran aristocrat exiled to Terra supports a network of revolutionists who are involved in the power struggle between the Peeps vs the Manties on Chicago's embattled turf. Weber's story &quot;Nightfall&quot; recounts the treachery and tyranny of Oscar Saint Just before he finally makes the call to blow up and bring down the Octagon upon the heads of both colleagues and his arch enemy Esther McQueen. It offered another point of view in those final moments that preceeded Saint Just's own demise in &quot;Ashes of Victory&quot;.<br />The other two stories were tantalizing tidbits of before and after Honor had &quot;arrived&quot; to the here and now in David's ongoing saga. I love his consciousness toward animals, especially when he develops his theme of highly evolved sentience in Honor's treecats and their nestmates on Sphinx. It now is impossible to consider one's own cats as merely, well, cats. As Samantha might say to Nimitz: &quot;Little do they know&quot;.<br />Congratulations on your newly wed status and the joys of a honeymoon, David, however your fans are waiting! Thanks for the  appetizers in &quot;Changer of Worlds&quot;, now, where is the main dish?	2001-04-09
US	52489456	R1KJPRLJIQVCNP	0553574116	270984394	Wicked Widow (Vanza)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Quick Witted	Having forgotten a book to read on the plane I slid into the airport gift shop and snagged this lightweight novel to keep me from boredom in flight.<br />I am no fan of heavy breathing romance novels with dimwitted virginal damsels in distress and dark haired heros with enormous endowments acting like rutting stallions in heat bent on lifting the little darling's lightskirts before page 20. (this author did wait until page 143 to be about it) This story turned out to be an engaging little romp in regency London with a surprising touch of intellect present in the heroine whose goal is to out fox her predator, but finds she must hire another even more dangerous predator to help her achieve this aim and save her hide.  The plot twists are that she is a murderess and he is, gasp, in trade which apparently is a catastrophic no-no in London society. <br />Amanda Quick is a witty wordsmith who offers a generous helping of sly humor. Even the sex scenes were amusing when the heroine Madeline chatters on non stop during the heat of the moment while her hero/lover the &quot;Dream Merchant&quot; Artemas does his best to maintain the action while distracted by her nattering.  It is a moment that one could envision might turn an average male's proud passion into, well, you know what I mean. <br />All in all, it is a quick read for short flights. Just the ticket to curb irritation over reminders to keep your seat backs and tray tables upright and in the locked position as you plow across the blue skies.	2001-04-05
US	52489456	R22O7MPX5OW858	0312874952	564287087	Timegods' World	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Sci Fi meets Nordic Lore	One thing is definite and certain, L. E., Modesitt is a terrifically inventive writer.  Hollywood could easily make a sci fi film (with a story for a change) of the TimeGod book.  The possibilities of eco devastation and the intervention of god like beings who destroy the bad guys in the universe as well as save others has been around for awhile, yet I still like the notion of super beings giving a helping hand, especially when confronted with world shattering events as presented herein.<br />The main characters, Sammis in &quot;Time Divers Dawn&quot; and Loki in &quot;Time God&quot; are engaging and sympathetic from the very get go.  Because of their personal characteristics the reader is willing to follow their development as they battle themselves and others in an extremely hostile world and evolve from bumbling, ignorant young men into the realization of their power and potential and to root for them as they are manipulated by power drunk colleagues and to watch them evolve into saviors of a sort.<br />Sammis' eventual mate, Dr. Wryan Relorn is a brilliant scientist and the true architect of change on this fantasy world of Query.  She helps Sammis directly and later Loki in an indirect manner to become major league heros and slowly they grasp the realization that they are indeed immortals and (somewhat reluctantly) demi-gods.<br />Modesitt is quite adept at weaving the strands of ecological development in a technology and resource poor world with the norse mythic themes into a logical and believable venue.  He shows how barbaric people truly are by nature, under the veneer of so-called civilized behavior, and that when their chief goal is to destroy every resource they have for whatever motivation, that they also destroy their technology and ability to self sustain.  Query is just such a world.<br />His take on Loki is an especially pleasing presentation as Loki has usually been portrayed in the legends as a totally malign being and troublemaker non pareil.  Yes, he is still perceived as that, but Modesitt makes Loki far more sympathetic and heroic then one has been led to believe in other tales.  The bad guys in these stories are far closer to the hearth and home which is an added spice to the cosmic stew cooking here.  Overall, if you enjoy a very well written sci fi yarn with the added charm of mythical gods and goddesses, then this will be a fun read for you.  It was for me.	2001-03-02
US	52489456	R31V5G6Z9X5AWJ	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	2	6	7	N	Y	David, What happened?	This novel is cotton candy.  After the veritable feasts of literary wit and a truly entertaining saga in both David's Belgariad and Malloreon series there are certain expectations about Mr Eddings' writing that the reader sort of holds in mind when reading a new novel from him.<br />But this book is a redux of Belgariad's characters such as Silk (Althalus), Garion (Gher), C'Nedra (Andine), and so on.  I do adore David's elastic banter between characters and his strong ability to make them lively and engaging, but the baby talk and repetitive smart alecky comments between Emmy/Dweia the goddess and Althalus which generalizes to conversations between the rest of the characters (except the bad guys) is just too &quot;precious&quot; for palatability.  I am massively bummed out about this.<br />He uses strong metaphors in an engaging way to put forth his opinions and insights. I enjoyed his light hearted smacking around of various combustible topics like religion, politics, and other esoteric spiritual practices.  The plot lines of this novel were well planned and could have become a really terrific story had he expended his considerable talent in a more substantive effort.<br />Basically, I was left with the feeling that he was dialoging with his wife and their house cat and together they came up with this cutsey ball of yarn.  If you enjoy reading sugary confections then this one is guaranteed to please.	2001-02-02
US	52489456	RBKZI7CEU7TXU	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Unending	Mr. Jordan states that he &quot;has been writing since 1977 and intends to continue until they nail shut his coffin&quot;.  OK.  We have been forewarned.<br />Winter's Heart is 656 pages of unending, purposeless chasing or &quot;Travelling&quot; all over their world.  Subthemes like the kidnapping of Perrin's wife is left dangling after a few chapters of frantic racing about in blinding snow storms with no clue of resolution.  Unfortunately the machinations of the Aes Sedai at Tar Valon are also left hanging with no further mention in the storyline after the first chapter or so.  Then there is the paranoid harping of Egwene who sounds increasingly like an angry scold, followed by the jealous whining of Elaine who is dealing with trying to win both supporters and an army to gain her throne while trying to reconcile herself to the sexual competition of Min and Aviendha over Rand.  Finally, she nails him in the bedroom.  Despite the lunatic voices of Lews Therin in his head that boy should be one happy camper!  Then there is the usual braid pulling and teeth grinding criticism by the irrascible Nynaeve, all of which adds little if anything to redeem this story.  Apart from the final chapter when Rand cleanses the taint from saidin little of real significance happens in this 9th book of the series.<br />Mat has the most action this time around, and yet he too seems rather colorless (apart from his peacock apparel provided by the queen).  He,  is constantly whining and complaining when called upon to be a hero, and like the rest of the characters is little more than one dimensional at this point.  Where is his stylish flare and devil may care attitude that was so engagingly ornery?<br />As much as I admire this southern gentleman's vast ability in story telling, the element of boredom appears to have encroached upon the original direction of his grand scheme and he seems to be stuck spinning his wheels in the sand and no one is going anywhere any time soon.  Mr. Jordan states in his autobio that he was born in 1948 which leads the reader to believe that he has 30 or more years to write the rest of this story. This is a real strong hint that some of us may be old and toothless (smile!) by the time Rand finally breaks the world and this saga shudders to its end.<br />Apart from my personal desire for closure on this story, I hope that the author will listen to the readers' pleas and bring the W.O.T. back to dynamic life and reanimate the characters with likeable qualities so we may engage ourselves with them and the story once more.an states in his autobio that he was born in 1948 which leads the reader to believe that he has 30 or more years to write the rest of this story. This is a real strong hint that some of us may be old and toothless (smile!) by the time Rand finally breaks the world and this saga shudders to its end.  <br />Apart from my personal desire for closure on this story, I hope that the author will listen to the readers' pleas and bring the W.O.T. back to dynamic life and reanimate the characters with likeable qualities so we may engage ourselves with them and the story once more.	2001-01-18
US	52489456	R4ZSH538M6AK8	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Gritty, bloody, spooky and nice and looong	Some read for writing style, skill or because one favors a particular author; some for the pleasure of reading good books, and others for the love of the genre.  My reading  preference is for a long, leisurely stroll through alternative worlds crafted by true fantasy meisters, and, 'frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn' how long it may take or how many novels are required in a series to reach the destination that the author has intended.  Just gimme words to tantalize the imagination and I am hooked.  George R.R. Martin continues to offer a cornucopia of verbal victuals upon which to feast and fantasize.  This continuation of his rip roaring saga of blood and battles, betrayal and beastial behavior within the rancorous seven kingdoms is guaranteed to satisfy.  <br />The Lannisters are as malicious, cruel, devious and destructive as always, although, wait!  there seems to be a hint of redemption for one or more of the lions.  Martin is unafraid to knock off readers expectations as well as heros and kings alike ('ole wormy lips)  and to make new ones out of bastards and bogeymen.  While the politics of personal destruction are cruelly executed, poor Imp, the snotty dialog stabbing forth from Tyrion's caustic lips is especially biting and bitter yet dead on funny at times.  This novel is a rich pastiche of nasty and nice, weak and powerful, and in the words of Lord Petyr, &quot;there are two sorts of people, the players and the pieces&quot;.   Who will emerge the hero?  The pieces are not yet all in play.<br />One of the more engaging players in this saga is the dragon queen Daenerys Targaryen who must overcome betrayal within her own court and those outside who seek to destroy her before she can claim her rightful throne in the seven kingdoms. One wonders if she will succeed after all the other &quot;kings&quot; have self destructed while she awaits in a distant land for events to unfold.  Ser Jorah Mormont, her exiled knight will be a crucial player in whether or not she will prevail.<br />I do wish, however, that the author didn't jump around so much from plot to plot with each new chapter.  It can confuse and frustrate when one must repeatedly page back to an earlier chapter in order to reanimate the storyline and direction.  Secondly, when will the covert power of magic truly animate the story apart from the spooky &quot;Others&quot; that are haunting and murdering the wildlings and men of the wall?  Martin sprinkles hints aplenty including those mystical dreams of Jojen Reed, a companion of Bran, and the visions seen by the fire worshipping religious zealot Melisandre guiding the petty king Stannis Baratheon, to those of Daenerys adolescent dragons growing into their own magical powers.   <br />If you enjoy a nice long, absorbing read, and are a conoisseur of extraordinary writing then this excellent book is a veritable banquet for those who love words, lots and lots of wonderful words.	2000-12-27
US	52489456	RGZ2DFJLL8E7Y	0553108042	732426833	The Grand Ellipse (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Plenty of action in this wild fantasy ride	Following a devastating revolution Vonahr's government has gone to seed and finds itself reduced to skeletal defenses and unable to meet the threat by an overlord of Grewzland who threatens war, destruction and world dominance.<br />Bordering Vonahr is a small country Lower Hetz, traditionally neutral and governed by a mad king whose sole focus in life is his fixation upon food, his hormones and diversion.  A court alchemist has discovered an arcane tool of mass destruction that could be used to save the world.  But the king, Miltzin, is deaf to all entreaties.  In his pursuit for pleasure he designs a race called the Grand Ellipse with the prize a baronecty, lands, mansion and wealth.<br />A beautiful, headstrong, independent young Vonarhrish woman scholar takes up the quest in her desperate need to secure financial resources to continue her research into other cultures and societies.  This is an engaging story of her journey through the challenges, and the tribulations that she and other racers encounter.<br />A tantalizing love triangle develops between the heroine Luzelle and a high ranking officer of the enemy Grewzland.  Also in the mix is a former fiance sent by her government to shadow and protect her even though she is unaware of the government's intervention.  <br />The story is quite entertaining, although at times it does drag a bit over the course of the race itself.  However, the author's gift for brilliant dialog, sly humor and convoluted machinations of both saboteurs and opponents that are expressed through the vividly drawn characters can deliver a lot of delighted chuckles and keep one&quot;rooting for the girl&quot; along the journey.  There are a few loose ends that I would like to have seen resolved or given a clue about by story's end.  Yet, overall I found this tale of triumph and travail typical of Paula Volsky's ever fascinatingly skewed world view and an enjoyable way to spend some time on her imaginary mystery tour.	2000-11-09
US	52489456	R2UI1RD950HQ8E	0061051217	269719484	Lord of Emperors: Book Two of the Sarantine Mosaic	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	A spectacular mosaic	Mr. Kay reveals his own dazzling artistic vision through the eyes, heart and hands of Crispin the mosaicist      in this elegant story.  His characters are beautifully drawn though sometimes infuriating, oftentimes tragic, but never unreal. One cares about them, even the brittle, beautiful wife of Leontes, and the terrible end that she faced.  The tangled emotions of this story of great love and even greater loss can haunt you with their disturbing power and poignancy.     Following the assassination of Valerius II by Styliane and her brothers, a heartbroken Crispin returns to Varena nearly destroyed by grief over the destruction of his majestic work in Sarantium, as ordered by the pious Valerius III, and the loss of his friends and loved ones he is forced to leave behind.   In an attempt to heal his pain and bring himself and his art back to life he creates a mosaic of each emperor, Valerius II and Valerius III, and their courts as he experienced them.  He places them in an ancient, unused sancturary in Varena knowing that they too may be destroyed by Valerius III,  and he could be killed for such impiety.   <br />Upon completion, Crispin stood &quot;suspended a little above the ground, and he looked at his work for a long time, suspended also, in a different way, in a moment difficult to sort through; the sense that he would be entirely done with this, finished forever, as soon as he stepped down from this ladder.&quot;  He recalls the work of unknown artisans &quot;their names lost to silence&quot;  that he has viewed in the past.   Refusing to remain unknown, he has signed his art by setting his initials in tesserae below the emperor which match those on the medallion around the neck of the figure of himself standing behind Valerius II and Alixana in the mosaic he has created of them.  <br />Lost in memories, suspended in time, his life takes yet another turn when Alixana, whom he had thought dead,  walks through the door.    At that moment, Crispin finally recognizes that he has achieved completion both within himself and his art and love has returned to bless his life and his soul.  Throughout this lovely, troubling, humble and grand story,  Crispin has remained a very real, and  at times terribly conflicted, yet deeply passionate man.   Perhaps it is projection by the writer that informs and inspires the characters in his stories, in any event, they are wonderful.  Always.	2000-10-15
US	52489456	R2XJW0H0GPST55	0312867867	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	Excellent exposition on religion and politics	After reading several opinions condemning Mr. Goodkind for expressing his beliefs in fiction, ie: how DARE he?, I was pleased to find this book both enjoyable and thoughtfully provocative. This sixth of the series is definitely not for the religious or politically intolerant for it exposes the underbelly of all too many institutions in society here and abroad which is guaranteed to tweak the vested. <br />Richard remains entirely sympathetic as he faces extremely hard choices while under captivity by Jagang's mistress, the dark sister Nicci. He is forced to leave his beloved Kahlan to deal with her own desperate challenge to save their new world from being overthrown by the Order.  It is a wrenching story of loss of freedom and self determination as they face betrayal by alleged allies, and desperation when they realize that they cannot win the war and must help their people flee the ravenous juggernaut of the Order's army ruled by a craven religous fanatic, the Emperor Jagang.   Richard states the story's main theme when he says:  &quot;Freedom requires effort if it is to be won and vigilance if it is to be maintained... People just don't value freedom until it's taken away.&quot; <br />This bedrock is the concept of freedom from tyranny, whatever its form.  Richard makes the single most powerful statement that defines his character and his actions throughout this story: &quot;The only sovereign I can allow to rule me is reason...what exists, exists; what is, is...this is the foundation from which life is embraced&quot;.<br />The story is one of unravelling the lies, the terror of power in the hands of the corrupt and the question of whether a person is ruled by emotion or logic, fear or choice. It is a powerful image of courage.  This book is for the thinking person for it is very deep and a welcome change from fantasy that tells a story but has no story.<br />Richard's sculpture of the man and woman called &quot;Life&quot; becomes the symbol of hope and a call tothe people of the old world to break free from the Order's crushing tyranny. &quot;Your life is yours alone.  Rise up and live it.&quot;  He does not want to supplant one form of tyranny with another, nor is he interested in ruling.  Richard's call is for individual self empowerment.     <br />Faith of the Fallen is a modern story within an ancient story in the context of fantasy.  And, perhaps, Mr. Goodkind's invitation for each of us to examine our own concepts of freedom, quality of life, self determination and courage. If so, BRAVO.	2000-10-12
US	52489456	R3RY6ZZE6DTZL7	0061059900	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bittersweet story of love and loss	One of the many strengths of Guy Gavriel Kay is his ability to take a period of history, whether factual or mythical and transform it into a pathway for understanding deeper truths.  His research is always impeccable and he brings to life, in Sailing To Sarantium, what one might initially think a boring story of an anonymous mosaicist who dreams of artistic immortality into a stirring melodrama of pain, sacrifice and inspiration.  It touches that sacred secret place within us and evokes that same longing to leave such a mark on the world as well.<br />The artisan, Crispin, is a tortured soul whose life has been destroyed when his wife and children were killed by the plague that swept through his world.  His pain is palpable and he is a walking dead man inside his shell of grief.  His ordered, predictable life is turned upside down by events that send him on a long journey to Sarantium to work on the Emperor's new religious citadel.  During his journey while escaping   death at the hands of pagan worshipers his concept of god is challenged when he meets two different gods under deeply mystical circumstances. <br />His mind and heart are torn in conflict by the first experience in the Aldwood where he survives meeting the zubir/bull of pagan worship on the day of the dead.  Extremely vulnerable to mystical forces he is again overwhelmed when, not long after, he views the eastern Jad as a dark and forbidding representation of their god on the ceiling of a sanctuary which is in direct contrast to his western vision of Jad as a blonde, blue eyed being. <br />These events become the nexus of his spiritual journey to find himself amidst the unknown and unwanted that await him.  He is deeply shaken by his own fear and struggles with his notions of faith and how to represent it in the work he has come to Sarantium to do.  At times you can feel his anguish as his loyalty, intellect, artistry and vision is challenged on every level when he is tossed into the melting pot of politics, intrigue and betrayal in the court of the Emperor Valerius II and his wily Empress.  Escaping ambush and assassination by his enemies, the firy tempered, red haired  Crispin is a loyal, devoted and deeply sympathetic man with great heart and an unyielding determination to surmount all obstacles in the way of realizing his artistic passion.<br />Kay places each piece of glass and tesserae in this colorful fantasy about that era's (Byzantine) history and art as if he were Crispin himself.   His exciting description of the chariot races bring to life, in vivid pulse pounding reality their actuality so much so it seems as if the reader is sitting, sweating and screaming under the broiling sun in the grandstands of the hippodrome.  He can really get the blood zinging in the veins.<br />The bittersweet characters are haunting, especially Linon whose soul was secretly captured by Zoticus the alchemist and placed in a bird construct for his own purposes at the moment of her sacrifice to the pagan god by their priests. Many years later, when Linon is freed by Crispin,  Zoticus realizes his terrible error in capturing these souls, and he returns to the Aldwood to free them and to sacrifice himself in penance.   There is so much pain and sorrow in this story, yet in Kay's hands one may also be rewarded with insight about the eternality of human striving while continuing to make the same mistakes again and again.  Yet, there is also a promise of success in life for the journey is forever filled with hope.	2000-09-30
US	52489456	R9721OSXA6ALY	0451451805	455724276	The Darkest Road (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	Spirals within Spirals - Stunning and Transcendant	The Darkest Road is the conclusion to a bittersweet story that touches the  heart in ways that long after the reader has savored the final words the  &quot;melody lingers on&quot; and on.  The entire three book series  starting with &quot;The Summer Tree&quot;, followed by &quot;The Wandering  Fire&quot; tells a story of five friends from Toronto who are gathered  together one evening on campus to attend a lecture by an outstanding  speaker.  Unbeknown to the audience the speaker is actually from another  world and is a mage by name of Loren Silvercloak who is accompanied by his  magical source Matt, a dwarf king. They have crossed the dimensions of time  and are on a quest to find these five friends, several of whom have  alternate histories in other lifetimes. They have essential roles in this  parallel universe to aid the people of Fionavar who are locked in a  struggle against the god Rakoth Maugrim called the Unraveller in a near  hopeless battle between the forces of chaos vs order.<br />The story delves  into the vilest recesses of evil perpetuated by Rakoth Maugrim who captures  and nearly destroys the very beautiful and queenly Jennifer/Guinevere.  Amidst this horror is another that consumes her friend Paul who is haunted  by guilt over his belief that he caused the death of his lover Rachel in a  car accident that transpired on a rainy night in Toronto. Paul establishes  a quasi friendship over a game of chess with the  king of Fionavar and  learns the reasons behind the drought that is destroying the land.  In his  desolation of guilt and grief he volunteers to be the sacrifice on the  Summer Tree in the Godwood in place of the aged king so that rain will come  and and halt the devastation of drought caused by Rakoth's  malevolence.<br />The sacrifice he makes transmutes Paul from mortal to that  of an andain/god-man. He becomes a channel for Mornir the god of thunder.   Kim, who is a doctor in Toronto is fated to become the seer of Fionavar and  to wieldthe warstone in defense of the beleagured kingdom.<br />Dave, a  truculent law student locked in an angry power struggle with his father and  mad at the world in general had become separated from the others during the  magical translation from Toronto to Finovar and has wandered into the lands  of nomads called the Dalrei. He learns to love these people as he lives  among them and becomes both a brother and a warrior helping them defend  their herds of eltor from ravening wolves and other evil forces sent by  Rakoth Maugrim to destroy the Dalrei. In the process of seemingly  insurrmountable odds he finds inner peace and himself as a man.  The sweet  tempered, good hearted, fun loving, irreverent Kevin is the only one who  finds he has no real purpose to serve Finovar until one special night,  guided by mystical forces, he travels to the place of a goddess and chooses  to sacrifice his life in order to be with her again for in his moment of  death, he has discovered that they were beloved of each other in a past  lifetime. His sacrifice brings another shift in the stuggle of Light in its  battle to overcome the darkness and destruction wrought by the Unraveller.  <br />There are many threads to this tapestry and Kay, as usual, weaves them  together in ways that can render the reader breathless with   wonder over  his stunning mastery of his art as he brings this magnificent saga to a  close.  The celtic lore of Arthur Pendragon, Guinivere, Lancelot du Lac and  the dog Cavall are irredescent threads that glisten like teardrops  throughout the weave for they are so heartbreaking and yet beautiful.   Kay's  inclusion of these figures from arthurian legend in this story adds  a new dimension to a mythos that has lingered in the hearts and history of  the celts.<br />And yet, the weaves of past lives, past loves is believable in  the sense that in in the vastness of potential realities all things are  possible.  Who really knows?<br />With this saga, Kay stretches the reader's  mind to encompass notions of immortality, parallel universes, alternate  realities and the timlessness of love that transcends all things.  The  depth to which a human will strive to embrace the reality of a grand  passion or to resolve an unrequited love is the ultimate power of this  story.  I deeply respect this author's writing for he seems to understand  life from a perspective unfettered by the limitations of others' beliefs.   Indeed this is a spiral of parallel universes and of celtic lore, within  another spiral of the mystical and magical god-men, gods and goddesses  within another spiral of contemporary human time and place and it is  unforgettable.	2000-09-10
US	52489456	R1NBVIH63U23GM	0312097581	242142368	The Book of Runes: A Handbook for the Use of an Ancient Oracle: The Viking Runes with Stones: 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Ancient Wisdom and a Modern Tool	There are many pathways to wisdom and guidance whether for the mundane  problems that humanity encounters on a daily basis, or for the spiritual  growth that one's soul aspires to achieve throughout the journey of  life.<br />Ralph Blum's Book of Runes is a wonderfully clear, concise and  eminently useful tool for &quot;tapping into&quot; that spiritual  wellspring of information that many seek but few consider for spiritual  truths outside of organized religion and other dogmatic approaches to  spirituality.<br />The ancient lore presented in this format of Runes has  never failed to guide and inspire me to amazing depths of renewal,  introspection, and contemplation of my own philosophical strengths for  survival in a sometimes dissonant reality.<br />The Runes have provided access  to the higher levels of consciousness required for effective problem  solving of mundane matters that I may not have ever reached using only the  training of my professional education and experiences.  Mr. Blum's book has  enhanced the usefulness of Runic guidance by making it so accessible to  all.<br />Beyond that, the Runes have also contributed to my lifelong devotion  to spiritual growth with their inspiring and gentle reminders to focus upon  what IS rather than my personal biases or fears that may inhibit the  clarity required for effective and productive solutions.<br />More than this,  the Runes are as valid for me as any other source or form of spiritual  guidance. They offer the perspective of self empowerment and freedom from  the dogma of judgement and its ensuing destructive force that can entrap  the soul and create an endless cycle of pain and needless  suffering.<br />These tiny tools have enhanced my life long devotion to  prayer, meditation and have provided a truly objective pathway to  enlightenment.  I am profoundly grateful for this knowledge and the renewed  awareness of diverse pathways to spirituality available to those who are  willing to open both heart andmind to the spiritual universe and find the  Divine whereever one may travel in body, mind and spirit.<br />To cite the  Rune &quot;Mannaz&quot;, which is The Self:  &quot;In the life of the  Spirit, you are always at the beginning&quot;.  What an inspiring and  beautiful affirmation of Life.	2000-09-04
US	52489456	RG5MXALZ8VXVF	038533396X	378058051	How I Accidentally Joined the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy (and Found Inner Peace)	Books	1	5	26	N	N	Forget it!	A  misogynistic, angry exposition of the author's miniscule world view.  One wonders how his wife must feel to know that her worth is so reduced in his eyes and advertised to the world.<br />I find it unimaginable that any thoughtful, intelligent, self accountable, and intellectually responsible person could endorse the antiquated beliefs expounded in this arrogant and guilt laden confessional.      This book is a treatise of judgemental, hypercritical opinion  spun as right wing philosophy and is unspeakable. There are a lot of right wing politically oriented people who are quite fine folks who do not need to attack people as this author has chosen to do in the self serving disguise of  cruel humor.  This reduces all of us as humanity and is never acceptable for not one of us is without flaws and imperfections.   This reader is a political independent with an open mind toward most POVs, and I personally dislike writing a negative review, but this book truly deserves it.	2000-08-21
US	52489456	R11IFA2B9ONOYN	0061056219	373132481	The Lions of Al-Rassan	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Exquisite, heartbreaking, unforgettable	This is a story that can break your heart, bring you to tears, and you may find yourself, as I did, aching for more pages to read of this exquisitly  emotional saga. <br />Kay has a very select and unique skill of making his  characters so real and indelible in one's psyche that their humanity in all  its gore and glory deeply resonantes within the mind and heart, so much so  that one may find that they cannot soon forget them.  The powerful,  bittersweet feelings evoked by the poetic message in the final few lines of  the book when the three full cups of wine are deliberately placed by  Jehane, Ammar and Alvar on the rim of the fountain of water are wrenchingly  haunting. <br />They return one's thoughts to similar moments of their time in  King Badir's court in Ragosa and flow on to other scenes within the story.  Once again to experience that shadowed battle between the young lions Ammar  and Rodrigo on the plains at sunset in their unwanted fight to death when  time is suspended in a breathless, dreamlike sequence and to feel the pain  and profound sense of loss of one of them.<br />Kay has that rare ability of  writing in a way that invites a sense of mental freedom within the reader  and permits one to savor and interpret his imagry without being bludgeoned  by common or heavy handed verbosity. He never overdoes and he never stoops  to coarseness or explicit vulgarity.  His stories are like spirals within  spirals constantly in motion captivating both the heart and mind of the  reader into spellbinding surrender.<br />The Lions of Al-Rassan is a hard  story of a hard time in history yet the lyricism and poetry of that time is  also present through the words of the poet-warrior Ammar ibn Khairan.  They  soften and  touch the story with sweetness, and an invitation to reflect  upon the deeper, more gentle philosophy of their way of life.  The beauty  of the poetry is stark contrast to the hatred between the warring nations  with their different gods, religious dogmas and practices all within the  matrix of the power conflicts between petty kings as they face off against  one another in their conquest of land and dominance. <br />Mr. Kay posesses a  wellspring of depth, refinement and keen intellectual mastery within  himself and as a writer. It is also obvious that his own parents were  wonderfully nurturing for he speaks with that clear, refreshing voice of  one who has few, if any, emotional hangups or axes to grind in his writing.  His unforgettable story The Lions of Al-Rassan is absolutely a must read  for those who appreciate the very best and Mr. Kay truly is non-pariel.	2000-08-16
US	52489456	R1MM0Y8AV5STT9	0671578545	369408226	Ashes of Victory (Honor Harrington #9)	Books	5	15	21	N	Y	Outrageously witty and politically savvy	Alright!  It is easy to become totally addicted to David Weber's Honor Harrington series. And like other reviewers, I have found that the best way  to enjoy and fully savor the storyline is to start at the beginning with  Basilisk and follow the character development of Honor as we are invited to  follow her growth from newly minted captain of a junker starship where she  finds herself stuck with a hostile crew way out in the boonies.  With  steely determination and incomparable skill she emerges from a fledgling  starship captain to a banged up Navy Admiral and an ultimate hero to the  multiple worlds she has served.<br />She inspires crew and country with her  iron willed mettle as she repeatedly faces off against enemies from  corrupt, greedy industrialists to power drunk politicians to mega ton  starships full of Peeps as she uncovers sabotage, piracy, murder, and nasty  machiavellian plots both political and personal. And up the kilt, down the  throat or broadside she blasts them all away.   <br />Weber's intensely  enjoyable, ultra hip futuristic space odessey is peopled with characters  that are funny and very, very cool, yet quite human and emotionally  engaging. It is easy to care about his folks, and to become involved in  Honor's world.<br />Weber invites the reader to look at the politics and  religious structures within Manticore (America/England analog?), and  Grayson (pick your own country of religious fanatics) and to measure them  against the utter horror of Haven (Russia analog?).<br />His fairly  transparent, strong personal opinions are very much &quot;dialed in&quot;  to the politics and religious dogmas that we now encounter in various  present day cultures including our own. For myself, I totally enjoy his  ballsy way of putting it out for the reader to think about.<br />Weber invites  us to explore the power drunk politics within the varied systems/worlds he  creates in this &quot;otherworld&quot; story.  The dolists (welfare  recipients withentitlement attitudes?) of the Peeps of Haven vs the  capitalists/industrialists/class system politicians (Manticore) and the  mind controlling religious heirarchial fanatics (Grayson), which reach a  shattering pitch that threatens the survival of Honor's homeworld monarchy,  and her adopted world's socio-cultural/political stability. <br />In Ashes of  Victory we get only a brief hot slice of Honor in action when she finds  herself defending her Manticoran Queen and Grayson's Protector against  attempted murder in a gutsy maneuver that saves their lives and nearly  destroys her new runabout. <br />Yet, despite the war with the Peeps we get to  cheer both Tom Theisman as he blasts away Saint-Just with his own pulsar  &quot;Goodbye Citizen Chairman&quot;, and the Peep tac-witch Shannon  Foraker &quot;Oops!&quot; who blasts away the SS ships sent to escort  Admirals Tourville and Giscard back to Nouveux Paris to be murdered by the  butcher Oscar Saint-Just. Foraker had downloaded an undetected self  destruct program to the SS ships that she designed to protect her crew and  Giscard's against certain death.   <br />     In Ashes of Victory, Honor  continues to endure the despicable politics of personal destruction by  various factions admist more intimate trials of repair of her body and  healing both herself and her terribly injured treecat Nimitz. By now, one  begins to hope she will be promoted to First Space Lord where she can use  her superb tactical skills to call the shots in the ongoing war with Haven  and a future war with the Solarians, and not have to sacrifice any more  parts of her body.<br />Her unrequited love for Earl White Haven remains a  bittersweet conflict between her heart and duty and this reader hopes that  somewhere in the story line Honor may once again find some personal  happiness. If not Earl White Haven, then perhaps the quiet, stoical,  unquestionably loyal and ever present personal guard Andrew La  Follett?<br />The reunion with her parents is stunningly beautiful as are the  emotional elements between Honor and the others who welcome her home and is  very nicely done. Weber's sleek sense of humor is deliciously sly and sooo  funny.  I personally loved the dry, witty verbal repartee between Honor and  her mother who is as outrageously irresistable as Honor herself. <br />There  are so many provacative levels to Weber's writing that the reader is  stimulated with many invitations toward mind stretching reflection about  life and the potentials for future generations as they may encounter it in  space and among the stars. <br />Thanks to David Weber's heroic Honor  Harrington we are given a hopeful and brave icon through whom we might  project a future    realized.  How I wish we could all live that long to  see it unfold for ourselves.	2000-08-02
US	52489456	R32Z9Z6E4TKJ2Q	0451451155	446908784	TIGANA	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Art of Magic on every level.  Exquisite	The image of Kay that I have is one of a master weaver sitting before a loom with the many colored threads of his ideas for his tapestry grasped lightly in his gifted hands.  Like magic his images form into a seamless,  richly textured, deeply emotional weave that portrays a battle between the  forces of chaos and order in an stark yet mystical setting. <br />Kay's  characters are utterly believable in their humanity and flaws as they seek  to right a wrong, find love, empower themselves, inspire others, or to  gratify their needs of lust for wealth or glory. <br />In this tale a prince  of a land lost under the curse of a magical spell by a conquering king,  disguises himself as a travelling musician.  He travels the land to form an  underground movement of other expatriates who seek redress for their  suffering under the crushing magical control by two tyrants who have split  their country, taxed and tortured them to death.  The Prince seeks to  recover his land's identity, restore his kingdom and to destroy the tyrants  who have crushed his world.<br />Although Kay tells his story in the context  of a land enmeshed in heavy religious influence with a plethora of gods,  goddesses, and earth religions with magical superstitions, never did one  feel that one was being forced to choke down the author's religious  bias.<br />The magic portrayed throughout from the overwhelming power of King  Brandin to the barbarian Alberico's crude, damaged, wavering socery to the  flawed personalities and skills of the reluctant wizards who help resolve  the war with magical links to the eerie night walkers was, to me, the  glistening thread in the weave that, like a ray of moonlight adds just that  element of surreality that makes this tale bewitchingly unforgettable.   <br />The contrast between the bittersweet, tormented passion of sensual,  sexual slave Dianora, and the militant Catriana is wrenching for each seeks  to find freedom from the rule of powerful men while lusting forvengence  for lost identity, families and country as they struggle with flaws that  consume their thoughts while punishing themselves with self doubt.<br />The  interwoven threads of unrequited love, grief, impassioned suffering,  hoplessness, and, yet, enormous determination takes the reader all over the  emotional landscape.  The power of self sacrifice enobles the characters  yet haunts one's heart and mind long after completion of this magnificent  tapestry.  <br />Tigana evokes awareness of the universality of humanity  regardless of the time or the context of the tale. Most of all, one is  inspired to look deeply within to explore the wellspring of hope and  renewal that lives in each of us.  A beguiling, gorgeous story.	2000-06-30
US	52489456	R293ESIZKJ22WW	0886777313	633895046	The Mageborn Traitor (Exiles)	Books	5	1	5	N	Y	Warm, enchanting, witty and wise	Melanie Rawn is an outstanding writer who intuitively captures the soul of each of her characters and the flavor of their personalities as formed and flawed by experiences within the various shirs, especially the starkness of  The Waste, in which they live and love. She provides colorful and rich  variations on power lust and delicious sexuality that tantalize and reveal.    Exiles and Mageborn Traitor,present a matriarchial society of women as  power brokers and males the home/care givers that challenges the reader to  think about how this could be in &quot;real&quot; life. Her characters are  drawn with insight and thoughtfulness kissed with great wit and wry humor.  She informs the reader of alternate points of view with the graceful  brushstroke of gentle humanity in a smooth, refreshing and thought  provoking way, even when the characters are the villians!  Here is great  mastery in her enchanting style of wrapping you within the cocoon of her  stories where you connect with her characters and what they find funny. The  brilliant description of the arrogant, self absorbed, corpulent,&quot;Grand  Duchess&quot; of Domburr over dressed in gauche yellow riding clothes, with  an orange scarf tied under her chins, heaving her massive bulk onto an even  more massive &quot;plow horse&quot; to go on a hunt is just hilarious. This  dazzling humor is prevalent in her Dragon Prince and Dragon Token series  (which are forerunners in style to this series).  Here we find an even more  powerful fantasy slice of life for those of us addicted to Ms. Rawn's  excellence in writing as her wittiness and sly humor weaves its magical  thread throughout which makes her work so welcome to read.  I look forward  to the blow out mage war between the meleressi and mage guardians in the  forthcoming book Captal's Tower. You can bet Jored and Josselyn will be  nose to toes in that battle!  Will Cailet finds her true love? (Josselyn? )  Will Sarra find someone to ease her broken heart, shareher political  battles and warm her lusty nights? Will Teigan's wrenching struggle to open  up to her magic persist after     Glenin's murder of her beloved father?  Will her twin Mikel's magic be supplanted by his evolution into  minstel/bard in Collan/Falundir's place?  Now, to find the clue for that  ornery, sexy, elegant minstrel Collan whose heritage mystery  has  tantalized us throughout this series. I will miss him terribly.	2000-06-12
US	52489456	R26W9F2IH0ECWO	0886776686	982596913	The Ruins of Ambrai (Exiles, Vol. 1)	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Riveting and deeply thoughtful	Exiles begins a new series by a writer who is so excellent that words are inadequate to describe her talent.  If you have the time and interest please read my review on book two of this series: The Mageborn Traitor.   This story, however, is of  wrenching betrayals, infuriating losses, grand,  exhilirating passions and rampant humor that is so sly and funny at times  that you laugh out loud.  I adore the tantalizing, outrageous sexiness in  both books of this series. In this one where the characters are young and  just full of raging hormones, their sexuality is so earth shaking powerful  that, well, just for fun, let your imagination roam the convolutions of all  THAT can mean to you as you heat up to the sizzle while you read about  Collan and Sarra's struggles against and surrender to hot nights of lusty  passion.  Yum! The balance of the review for this book is included with The  Mageborn Traitor.  I found these books, on every level, simply  irresistable!	2000-06-12
US	52489456	R3BVXFVEV46T8Y	0312872267	745453187	Magi'i of Cyador (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	12	16	N	Y	A rational approach to Rationalists	The cut and dried dialogue and narration that open this story sets the tone of a &quot;rationalist&quot; viewpoint which one quickly sees is both fearful and overtly unemotional simultaneously. The use of the screeing  glass by the Magi'i to invade the privacy of the hero and his family is  quite chilling for it is a powerful tool for constraint on their behavior  and ability to even speak with one another. One learns that the families of  the magi'i have no freedom for they can be truth read and spied upon at the  whim and will of the magi'i and they are forced to live in a prison of  fearful restraint.  But, as the story unfolds our hero Lorn begins to  evolve into a quietly passionate, deeply intelligent and clever man.  He is  forced to manipulate and master increasingly hostile environments into  which he has been forced to survive the plots against him simply because of    his heritage as mage-born.  He finds himself uncommitted to the prospect  of spending his years trapped within concrete and marble buildings devoted  to the boring (to him) future of spending his own life force (chaos) on  refuelling energy cells. These energy cells power the firelances of Mirror  Lancers and the firewagons used for transportation in the ongoing struggle  against the accursed forest and the barbarians. The story is largely spent  describing his struggles to overcome the aforesaid barbarians and accursed  forest as an outcast magi'i in the role as mirror lancer. However, one has  a sense that this is stage setting for his unfolding evolution into the  highest echelon of the magi'i.  He has acquired wealth and power from that  wealth through his own foresight and the skills of his merchanter consort  Ryalth.  He is destined to become a mover and a shaker in the next part of  this saga. The love story is charming even though Lorn is forced to commit  multiple murders to protect his lady Ryalth from villans. I would like to  know the hero better as a man. He is rather one dimensional, but then this  may be part of the plot to separate within the reader's understanding the  concept of the cold &quot;rationalists&quot; in contrast to the more  passionate and emotionally driven &quot;barbarians&quot;. One senses that  the author plans a number of &quot;rationalists&quot; novels which will  provide, hopefully, a thorough understanding for the reader as to who and  how the cold blooded magi'i came to rule Cyad and its people. This is a  very good &quot;mirror&quot; to Modesitt's book &quot;Fall of the  Angels&quot; in the Recluse series.   Hopefully the author will write a  book that will enrich this perspective for it is deep territory for  intrigue and dark plots. Perhaps more of the machinations within the inner  circle of the Magi'i of Cyador and their manipulation of their  &quot;dense&quot; Emperor. In any event, the future of Lorn and the   city  of &quot;Lorn'eth&quot; will unfold in due course.	2000-05-27
US	52489456	R34SBKVFPKY2MT	0886775957	519243309	Skybowl (Dragon Star, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Outstanding, insightful series	The 3 books each in the Dragon Prince and Dragon Star series are some of the best written, most vididly imagined and deeply reflective of human nature that I have ever encountered by fiction authors.  Melanie Rawn is a  master at interweaving stories, personalities and elicting emotional  responses from the reader.  The saga begins with Rohan and Sioned, his  Sunrunner Princess, as they face overcoming an evil High Prince Roelstra  and his nest of scheming daughters plotting to capture the world with the  aid of an enemy, the Merida, a group of assassins with the prize of the  desert promised them for their help. They are assisted by   various corrupt  petty princes whose goals are increasing their wealth and holdings. Rohan,  the brilliant intellectual prince of the desert is hereditary protector of  the dragons who live there and return their love and interest.   Rohan is  beneficiary to the secret, unlimited wealth of dragon gold which is unknown  to, but coveted by, the other petty princes. Rohan succeeds in overcoming  Roelstra's evil rule, establishes fair trade and writes the law codes for  the land when he becomes High Prince, and peace ensues for years.  Throughout the stories the author uses delicious humor and repartee between  principles in a most engaging way.  The Dragon Star series continues the  saga with Rohan and Sioned now in the background and the focus is upon  their son   Pol's ascendancy toward his eventual position as High Prince.  Pol faces many inner conflicts as he struggles to become a prince like his  father, and  a husband to a fragile, helpless, cowardly and weak wife. He  has married Meiglan, instead of Sionell, his soulmate and childhood friend  whom he later realizes was the woman best suited to him.  On top of his  personal wars he is thrust into a   world war by invading barbarians who  are both superstitious, and religiously fanatical. The Vellant'im sole  purpose is to destroy all inhabitants, especially the High Prince and theSunrunners to pay back evil done to them by an unknown group of evil  sorcerers hundreds of years in the past. The struggle for survival is  bittersweet and poignant. The sub theme of religious beliefs vs sorcery and  magic, and the conflict between Pol and his cousin Andry, the Lord of  Goddess Keep whose goal is to dictate beliefs and what constitutes sin and  to set himself up as judge and jury keep emotions high.   Andry's parents,  brother and kin and Andry's own children must chose between him or Pol  while trying to work together to save themselves from facing annhilation by  the enemy. The many subplots of individuals forced to face their own  personal and power struggles while facing the Vellant'im is fascinating and  makes these stories rich and textured.  The dragons aiding humans in peril  present a compelling picture of those special protective, loving bonds  between man and animal. The author has captured the indomitable spirit of  mankind and their non human friends in a battle to survive being conquered  by overwhelming forces in an inspiring, engaging and unforgettable way.	2000-05-21
US	52489456	R2HGXL9X37V8H8	0812533968	586910326	The Master: Book Three in the Time Master Trilogy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Mesmerizing, haunting, insightful	Louise Cooper is a wizard with words and emotions. This particular series which culminates in The Master is one that I reread every year.  She has a rare understanding of the balance of Chaos and Order which invites one to  reflect upon one's own issues and reactions to life.  She weaves a tapestry  of words that teases one to challenge and to widen one's own perceptions in  a very subtle way.  This is a master at work. Her dark lord of chaos is  deep, tantalizingly mysterious and haunting. His immortal struggle to  maintain the balance between the stimulus of chaos and the sameness of  order for all mankind is a seductive reminder of our own inner darkness and  struggles.  The blandness/perfection of the lord of order reminds one of  the sugary monotony of too much of a good thing, ie: order, yet it too is  appealing in its shiny, fool's gold qualities. The lord of order reminds  one of the stagnation that arises from the stullifying effects of  unremitting sameness.   The characters are engaging and deeply developed.   I wish Louise Cooper would write another trilogy on Chaos and Order,  plumbing even greater depths of the themes and characters in the Time  Master Trilogy.  She creates a mind expanding body of work that I have  found just impossible to not feel a hungry yearing for more of this  fascinating subject.    Simply irresistable.	2000-01-24
US	52489456	RG3GK25LBFNUS	0061052191	571683940	Grand Conspiracy: The Wars of Light and Shadow (Alliance of Light)	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Stiff, difficult reading	Janny Wurts is a superb artist.  I have read all of her books to date, and to my great disappointment find this book overworked, humorless and incessantly gloomy.  The themes are well plotted and could be vastly more  interesting if they went somewhere. It seemed as if one were reading a  diary. The characters' motives except for the the Fellowship Sorcerers have  become that of unremitting negativity.  The analogies and grandiose  adjectives at times border on the ridiculous. Examples: p. 128:  &quot;jewels like points of ice hung on a nerveless wax statue&quot;;  p.150: &quot;sweat bathed his forehead in sliding drops, until his skin  glistened like a burst egg white&quot;, etc. The stilted conversations by  and between characters is unrealistic. This is so sad.  I want to read the  story of these characters.  I want to care about them. I want to see  movement toward resolution of their problems. Alas.	2000-01-19
US	52489456	R2KVP3HNCHLT05	0312868227	653211935	Darksong Rising (Spellsong Cycle, Book 3)	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	Currently in Holding Pattern	I adore 95% of Modesitt's writing, and have read all his books. And, I am very very comfortable with his feminist support vibes in this particular series.  This book, however, seemed to be parked  on the tarmack awaiting a  signal from the tower for lift off.  I would prefer that Anna get past the  self absorbed, menopausal whining and complaining.  She is portrayed as THE  most powerful person on that world, yet she has mastered neither her  emotions, nor her self pity. Too much self-talk nattering plus the  reminders of her gluttonous nutrition are waaaaay boring. I had hoped for a  deeper exploration of drum magic and for a more dynamic battle over the  magic power struggle between Anna and the sicko, perverted teenage ruler  Rabyn. I want to know more about the Matriarch and the Seers in Wei, and  where/when they will come alive in this storyline. Anna needs to meet with  the aforesaid powerful women, find her inner power, stop her whining, and  as much as I have loved the developing flirtation with Lord Jecks she needs  to get it on with or marry him.  A much richer character development is  needed by now on all the principals in this story. I would like greater  insight into the use of &quot;music magic&quot; as it still is not concrete  enough to be believable. Can Anna get her daughter to send books across the  mist on pharmacology/chemistry/herbology so she can develop even  rudimentary medicine to help her new people? The best part of this book  were the closing 4 or 5 paragraphs.  Mr. Modesitt warmed my heart with the  exquisite, breathless moment of that long awaited recognition of love  between Anna and Jecks. Even with the feminist focus in these novels, the  author's message of love provided the true power in this story that,  hopefully in future novels in this series may awaken and transform Anna at  last.	2000-01-15
US	52489456	R1KQTPJ9YQHZ20	0312866453	94363789	The White Order (Saga of Recluce)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Illuminating!	I have read all of the series up to the newest release.  Other authors have addressed the chaos/order paradigm with a very light touch, and it is marvellous to read the struggle to achieve balance between the two eternal  dynamics wielded by individuals at all levels of human development, as  reflected by the author's perception of humandynamics in our  &quot;reality&quot;.The Fall of Angels tells the story of how the planet is  colonized by high technology individuals who must adapt to a low technology  world system.The struggles of the wizards of chaos and orderand the impact  upon human development is riveting.Until this book in the series one had  the notion that the chaos wizards were all evil and implied chaos is evil.   This book humanizes that elementand makes one reflect upon oneself and  one's ownchaotic impulses whether or not one is a &quot;tech head&quot; or  one disinclined toward technology.  I adore this series.  Thanks L.E.  Modesitt for enjoyable reading on cold, rainy winter nights.	1999-02-18
