US	52488299	R2ATI99F4UBUZS	0743261658	659603713	The One Thing You Need to Know: ... About Great Managing, Great Leading, and Sustained Individual Success	Books	4	138	141	N	N	Full of quality, though some of it is recycled material	Buckingham's book is very good overall; the practical anecdotes he provides of people actually DOING the \\"one thing\\" are compelling, and his style is entertaining, and yet no-nonsense.   <br /> <br />In giving us \\"the one thing,\\" Buckingham emphasizes the need for what he calls the \\"controlling insight\\" to provide a means not only for getting on to the field of play, but \\"how to win and keep winning the game.\\" <br /> <br />Armed with this description, he unveils what, based on his considerable experience and research, he considers the controlling insight about great managing, great leading, and sustained individual success. <br /> <br />Here are the \\"one things\\" for each: <br />Managing: \\"Discover what is unique about each person and capitalize on it.\\" <br />Leading: \\"Discover what is universal and capitalize on it.\\" <br />Sustained individual success: \\"Discover what you don't like doing and stop doing it.\\" <br /> <br />Along the way, Buckingham provides some excellent points of focus, including a very important differentiation between managing and leading that too many of his contemporaries have overlooked: \\"When you want to manage, begin with the person.  When you want to lead, begin with the picture of where you are headed.\\" <br /> <br />Predictably though, much of the argument for each of the three controlling insights is predicated upon strengths theory, which Buckingham and Clifton popularized with \\"Now, Discover Your Strengths.\\"  In the management chapter, the anecdotes more or less focus on individuals who are able to identify the strengths of their people, and put them to the best possible use.  In the sustained individual success chapter, he takes strengths theory a step further, advocating not only discovering your strengths and cultivating them, but eliminating, or managing, those areas in which you are weak as a primary (where \\"Now\\" made it more secondary) pursuit. <br /> <br />It is primarily for these chapters that I say some of the material is recycled.  However, when you have the research to back up the claims, as Gallup (for whom Buckingham no longer works) certainly does with the StrengthsFinder instrument, you can hardly deviate from it very far.   <br /> <br />Another way in which the material is somewhat recycled, though,  is in its similarity to Collins' \\"Good to Great.\\"  Buckingham praises the work of Collins in some points, but takes minor swipes at it in others.  This is a strange irony in the book, as Buckingham's arguments are very similar to those of Collins, just phrased differently.  For example: Collins' \\"level 5 leadership\\" entails what he calls \\"The Stockdale Paradox\\"--a willingness to look at the brutal reality of the situation, but remain hopeful and determined that one will overcome it.  Now, from Buckingham: \\"When I say leaders are optimistic I mean simply that nothing--not their mood, not the reasoned arguments of others, not the bleak conditions of the present--nothing can undermine their faith that things will get better.\\"   <br /> <br />Buckingham's slightly different definition of words like optimism (which could easily be defined as hope) and humility cause him to see Collins in a slightly different light, in spite of the fact that their findings are almost exactly the same.  I found myself slightly disappointed by this, but I would recommend this book nevertheless, as it is an excellent compendium of insights overall from a man that few would dispute has become a global leader in these areas. <br /> <br />One humorous note: I'm fairly certain Buckingham has signed a two book deal with Free Press, so I'm anxiously awaiting the second book, especially as he has already given us \\"The One Thing You Need to Know.\\"  :-)	2005-03-10
US	52488299	R3O5IOOTFLUU37	0718000463	185773893	The Maxwell Leadership Bible Developing Leaders From The Word Of God	Books	5	47	49	N	N	from the inside out	Maxwell's stated purpose for a leadership Bible is that everyone is a leader, and that effective leaders must first be able to lead themselves.<br />The first interesting note on the book is his choice of the New King James Version, rather than the more common New International Version, but the translation flows quite nicely, so it does not present a problem.<br />In the book, Maxwell takes insights from the 21 Irrefutable Laws and the 21 Indispensable Qualities to highlight the Biblical passages.  For example, he takes Biblical figures and discusses how they embodied a particular law or quality, sometimes more than one.  Also worthy of note is that he uses both positive and negative examples of leadership: in Matthew chapter 2, he uses Herod to illustrate the \\"indispensable quality\\" of security, and the \\"irrefutable law\\" of empowerment.  Maxwell asserts that Herod was not secure in his leadership, because he viewed Jesus as a threat, and tried to have him killed.  In terms of empowerment, Maxwell offers Herod's abuse of power, as opposed to attempting to share it.  A nice feature of this is that Maxwell provides chapter and verse references for each of his insights, and the profiles and notes are placed logically with the accounts to which they correlate.  In short, the book amounts to a study Bible on leadership.<br />Some other features of note:<BR>-A two page spread at the end of the Gospels explaining how Jesus embodied each of the 21 irrefutable laws<br />-Half page \\"profiles in leadership\\" on everyone from the seventy elders in Numbers to well known names like Abraham, Peter, and John<br />-Full and two-page elaborations on a particular law of leadership or a particular quality as embodied by a Biblical leader<br />-Summaries at the beginning of each book which not only give the plot line of the account in the book, but also speak to the leadership components therein by listing leaders in the book, other people of influence, lessons in leadership, and leadership highlights with chapter, verse, and page references<br />-Other insights such as \\"women who made a difference\\" in which he lists 25+ women who exhibited difference-making leadership, referenced by book, chapter, and verse, or \\"Zechariah learns motivation comes before mobilization\\"<br />-An index of each leadership law, followed by several examples and where to find them in the Bible (main example of each in boldface type)<br />-An index of each leadership quality, followed by several examples and where to find them in the Bible (positive and negative examples labeled and in boldface type)<br />-An index of leadership issues, including calling, adaptability, delegation, etc.<br />-An index of profiles in leadership<br />Overall, this is a well-indexed and thorough study Bible on the topic of leadership, and I recommend it highly to anyone who is interested in the integration of faith and leadership, or wants to learn more about the origins of leadership.	2002-03-27
US	52488299	R4XML9AYXH08Y	0764534513	983624271	Teach Yourself FrontPage 2000 VISUALLY (Idg's 3-D Visual Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fantastic starter book	This is the best book you can buy if you want to become familiar with FrontPage 2000 very quickly.  I knew virtually nothing about the program when I purchased this book, and I have learned enough from it to become a proficient user of the program both at home and in my occupation.  <br />The book takes only three or four days to get through, less if you are already familiar with other Microsoft office applications, such as Word and Excel.  The screenshots and color-coded instructions on every page make this book very easy to understand and apply, and though it is very basic in spots (it outlines, step by step, how to save a page, for example) it does cover everything the beginning to intermediate user needs to know in order to use the program effectively.  The only way this book might be better is if it included a tutorial CD, as many other instructional books of this kind do.  Other than that, however, I recommend this book very highly, and I will be returning to the teach yourself visually books in the future, having found this one to deliver on its advertised promise: read less, learn more.	2001-07-29
US	52488299	R2J2YDMEWVCBHO	0736003002	42009699	Soccer Systems and Strategies	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An excellent overview, neither too simple nor too technical	This book, by Danish authors, seeks to explain the major systems of play, as well as attacking strategies for different aspects of the game (set pieces such as corner kicks, throw ins, free kicks, etc.)  The book covers the major systems (4-4-2, 3-5-2, 4-3-3...) and gives both a sample training session and an example of how a well-known team has played each system.  This section on systems of play is probably the most valuable portion of the book, and makes it worth buying.<br />The rest of the book focuses on various other aspects of the game, mostly set pieces.  Several different options are given, and easy to read diagrams are provided for each of them.  The authors also talk briefly about the style of play of different regions of the world (South America, Europe, Africa), and make some observations about each, but this section is really very limited, as the discussion mentions only those general characteristics of each (For example, the South American style is generally characterized by players who are highly skilled with the ball, and teams who try to score as a result of possessing the ball.) and does not really compare and contrast their merits or deficits to any real extent.  <br />Also briefly mentioned are topics such as player psychology, coaching philosophy and methods, and other game situations like penalty kicks.  These topics are also relatively limited in scope, although the information they provide is worthwhile.  <br />Overall this is a very good book on tactics, one that is certainly worth reading for the systems of play portion, but the other sections, while they are adequate, fail to live up to that measure of quality.  An additional critique of the book is that the Danish style of long ball direct play does tend to predominate some of the discussion in each area.  Notwithstanding these elements, however, I do recommend this book for anyone who is interested in learning more about tactics and systems of play.	2001-06-23
US	52488299	R1K81Q8GUTJY5A	0062517090	716567799	Ruthless Trust: The Ragamuffin's Path to God	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Ruthless truth, rooted in Ruthless Truth	Brennan Manning has written another wonderful book that challenges the Christian community to re-think its ideals, and more importantly, actions.  Manning urges individuals who read this book to exist in the moment, trusting God for the grace we need for forgiveness from the sins of the past, as well as the provision we need for the demands of the future.  This having been said, however, he spends much of the book talking about how it is not that simple, and is admirably unafraid to approach the dark areas and periods of his own life and the lives of those he uses as illustrations, as well as the concepts which many of his contemporaries have avoided.  (How do we trust when we lose a family member, or when some other human tragedy occurs?)<br />Manning's anecdotes about people of faith, and everyday &quot;ragamuffins&quot; are both inspiring and well-chosen in support of his points.  This book is, necessarily, a bit more philosophical and abstract than was &quot;The Ragamuffin Gospel&quot;, but his style is remarkably similar, and his passion unmistakably clear.  <br />Manning's words are rooted in the words of Christ; throughout the book he refers to the teachings of Jesus as the most important aspects of contemplation, maintaining that they, and His example, are the only standard worthy of emulation.<br />This is a book well worth reading, and, like its predecessor, it is bound to cause theological controversy because of its straightforward ideas about the fundamental character of God, as well as its implications for the lives of individuals who read and seek to apply its truths.	2001-06-22
US	52488299	RN963YBBLSZ23	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	41	46	N	N	Some good insights, but some unanswered questions also	The book makes some excellent observations about the Christian prayer life in general, and is worth reading for sure, but I am disappointed with the author's failure to examine the questions which I am sure tend to arise after reading this book.  For example, what happens when God decides to answer your \\"Jabez prayer\\" by saying \\"not right now,\\" or how should a Christian deal with the disappointment of missing an opportunity to \\"expand God's territory\\"?  The author tends to paint a very encouraging picture of the effects of this prayer, which is, I think, to be expected; however, it seems to me that this is also a somewhat unrealistic portrait in that it does not address the valleys as well as the peaks.<br />A particular instance of this within the book that stood out was an episode in which a youth group led by the author determined to start some backyard ministries and beach ministries in Long Island.  The individual who came to train them said that they would achieve huge success if they could get 15 people to attend each of these backyard sessions.  The author, after having heard this, told the group that they should \\"consider it a failure if each group does not have 100 people.\\"  The group ended up meeting its goals, and the author rightly attributes this to God's influence and power, and goes on to talk about how each of the members of the youth group went away from the experience having learned what God can do; however, it is this kind of thinking which troubles me.  What would have happened if they had gotten 50 people to come to each session?  Would that have been considered failure?  Further, what would these young members of the youth group have learned then, would God have been any less powerful, or would their prayers have been answered to any lesser extent if they had reached fewer people than they had specifically asked to impact?<br />The Prayer of Jabez is a good concept if applied properly, that is, praying for increased influence and blessing in order to become more useful to God, and to ask Him to \\"expand His territory\\" through you.  I even concur with the author that it is altogether fitting to pray for opportunities to impact specific people and situations, but I remain somewhat skeptical of episodes like the one described above, as they seem to be placing expectations on God, rather than allowing Him to fulfill His expectations through us.rder to become more useful to God, and to ask Him to \\"expand His territory\\" through you.  I even concur with the author that it is altogether fitting to pray for opportunities to impact specific people and situations, but I remain somewhat skeptical of episodes like the one described above, as they seem to be placing expectations on God, rather than allowing Him to fulfill His expectations through us.	2001-04-19
US	52488299	R158BLNQPXFDGI	0066621038	467623700	The Little Book of Coaching: Motivating People to Be Winners	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good in spots, but...	The Little Book of Coaching is more or less a summary of the longer work Everyone's a Coach.  This book attempts to present a concentrated portion of what it takes to lead and motivate others based on the acronym C.O.A.C.H., which stands for Conviction-driven, Overlearning, Audible-ready, Consistency, and Honesty-based.  These characteristics form the divisions in the book, and for each division, the authors provide an inspirational quote (which is printed on an entire page), an anecdote or two (usually by Shula about his football coaching career), and an application to leadership (usually by Blanchard).  <br />The book is only about 120 pages long, and given the fact that the actual dimensions of the book are smaller than average, coupled with the fact that the quotations given are printed on a full page, what we have here is approximately 50 pages of real text, half of which contain stories about Don Shula and the Miami Dolphins, and the other half Blanchard's ideas on leadership. ... this is not really worth the money, although some of the material is not bad.  The ideas and examples the authors present are based on sound principles (most of which, incidentally, are explained with much greater attention to detail in books by John Maxwell, Stephen Covey, and J. Oswald Sanders), but this book is more of an after dinner mint than a meal.  I would recommend leadership books by any of the aforementioned authors before I'd advise picking this one up.  As a gift book it is fine, but as a stand-alone leadership book it lacks quality.	2001-04-11
US	52488299	R3PYOLY55YEUUQ	0062516981	582858784	Son of a Preacher Man: My Search for Grace in the Shadows	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Honesty from the front lines	Jay Bakker, son of Jim and Tammy Faye, the televangelists, has an interesting story.  Having grown up in the PTL city of Heritage USA, his life went into a tailspin with the fall from grace of the PTL organization, and his father's subsequent prison sentence.  (Incidentally, that is one of the great contradictions of his story: on the one hand, he maintains that his father was innocent of any criminal activity, but on the other hand, he acknowledges that his father \\"did some things wrong,\\" although he never clarifies what those things might have been.)<br />Basically, the first two-thirds of the book chronicles Jay's alcohol and drug use, paralleled by the prison term of his father.  Bakker explains his frequent moves, his parents' divorce and subsequent re-marriages to others, and overall, his continuing search for his faith despite all of the trials he has endured.<br />The final third of the book describes the process of finding his current ministry to disenchanted youth and young adults in the Atlanta area through an organization called Revolution, a sub-ministry of Safehouse Outreach.<br />Throughout the book, Bakker is uniquely honest about his imperfections, especially his admittedly negative attitude toward those who he believes brought about the fall of his father.  He is also unapologetic about indicting the institution of the church on the grounds that it has fallen victim to tradition, and is failing to reach those who need its message of grace, the message that God loves you no matter what, most.  This position puts him in a rather precarious theological position, in or near the camp of Bart Campolo and Brennan Manning (whom he thanks before the text of the book), but it is obvious that Bakker does not care much for theology if it does not work practically, and he must be admired for that, though he comes off as one who is still very much in the process of finding his ministry and voice.  Clearly, his journey has already been an arduous one, but it seems that it has only just begun.  The chronicle of this journey is worth reading, but it will be more so in ten years, I have a feeling.	2001-04-11
US	52488299	R58JGHQT8239C	0715801740	681072155	Soccer Tactics and Teamwork	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Old, but good	This book was first published in 1973, but remarkably little has changed from a technical or tactical standpoint in the time between now and then.  This book provides the basis and terminology for all of the USSF licensing courses (yes, we copied the English).  Another benefit is that it contains very clear diagrams of both correct and incorrect positions (placed side by side for comparison) in areas of discussion which include, but are not limited to: creating space, support in attack, passing, shooting, defending and attacking at set pieces, and goalkeeping.  The book does include some activities for use in training sessions, but if you are looking for a drill book, this is not the one to buy.  Having said that, however, I highly recommend this book, as it is an excellent primer and resource on coaching tactics.  It is written in such a way as to be applicable to any team that plays 11 a side (although many of the concepts are applicable to any team because they are emphasized in a small sided setting such as 2 v. 1), and can be understood easily by any coach from novice to expert.	2001-03-28
US	52488299	R1Y3XAPRQXFFX2	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely enchanting, absolutely intelligent	Each of these books is wonderful and entertaining in its own right, but as a series they are stupendous; each book sheds a bit more light on some episode or character elsewhere in the series, piecing together the Christian allegory Lewis intended.  The books are written in such a fashion as to be enjoyed by readers of all ages, and Lewis's skillful blend of fantasy and mythology, combined with his artful storytelling, make each volume difficult to put down.<br />The series follows the oft-repeated rule that Narnian time and \\"our time\\" (Lewis often addresses the reader directly in the first person) do not correlate, so that in \\"our world,\\" two or three years might be hundreds of Narnian years, and vice versa.  In this way, the children who enjoy the adventures in the books are privileged to witness and participate in crucial elements in Narnian history from Creation to \\"The Last Battle.\\"  As for the events themselves, they are an entertaining compendium of adventures, from daring rescues (The Silver Chair) to courageous explorations (The Voyage of the Dawn Treader), and from valiant struggles (Prince Caspian) to startling discoveries (The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe), among others.<br />In each book and each adventure, readers will recognize Lewis for his crafty tale weaving, but upon closer examination, will find him ever the apologist as well, steering his observant readers toward Christ (or Aslan, as he is known in Narnia).<br />These books are an absolute delight, and they possess the ever-elusive quality of appeal to the youngest child, as well as the well-read intellectual.<br />As to the apparent controversy about the order in which the books were placed, I think it matters little whether one reads \\"The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe\\" (book 2 in this set) or \\"The Magician's Nephew\\" (book 1 in this set) first, as it is easy to understand the argument for each after having read the books.  If you prefer chronological order, read them in the order in which they come in the box; if not, read #2 first.  Do read them though; they are a rare treat.h they come in the box; if not, read #2 first.  Do read them though; they are a rare treat.	2001-03-07
US	52488299	R32MLHWFX4CRKH	0880114533	999637574	Beyond Winning: The Timeless Wisdom of Great Philosopher Coaches	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Lombardi, Wooden, and a few you might not have known	This book examines the coaching approaches of six &quot;philosopher coaches&quot;: Vince Lombardi, Woody Hayes, John Wooden, James &quot;Doc&quot; Counsilman, Brutus Hamilton, and Percy Cerutty.  Each is afforded a chapter in the book, and the final chapter gives a summary of the &quot;essence of philosopher coaching.&quot;  The book's premise is that the men presented believed that coaching was more than wins and losses, that it is inextricably intertwined with the development of the whole person.  Each coach presented took a different approach to his methods, but all of them had this philosophical element in common.  One of the pleasures of this book is that it has chosen coaches from a cross-section of sports: Lombardi and Hayes from football, Wooden from basketball, Counsilman from swimming, and Hamilton and Cerutty from track and field.  Also interesting is that the summary chapter discusses, in part, the flawed elements of each coach's character, implying that they shared the journey toward self-discovery and personal development with the players they coached.  An informative book that will certainly help shape (or re-shape) the coaching philosophies of those who read it.	2001-02-26
US	52488299	R281KGB9LERXO	0880115122	68068576	Coaching for Character: Reclaiming the Principles of Sportsmanship	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A philosophy of sportsmanship	This book is written by two philosophy professors who also have some experience in sport (one in archery, the other in baseball).  Their philosophy bias is clear throughout the book, as they take time to define the term &quot;sportsmanship,&quot; and explain why it has value in terms of respecting teammates, officials, coaches, and the game itself.  The book does raise some relevant and specific questions, (for example: &quot;Is it ever acceptable to give less than a best effort to conserve energy?&quot; and &quot;Explain the difference between respecting an opponent and liking an opponent.&quot;) mostly in the &quot;time for reflection&quot; portions that are interspersed throughout the book, but it falls short in that its arguments are very much idea-based and conceptual rather than suggestions for practical application.  The appendix does provide some practical advice, but it is included almost as an afterthought rather than a priority.  The book does well to provoke thought and provide the &quot;why,&quot; but the &quot;how&quot; is left almost completely to the reader.  It is for this reason that I think the book would have been better had it been titled &quot;A Philosophy of Sportsmanship&quot; or something to that effect.	2001-02-01
US	52488299	RWSAK0NW1FUB1	0679463313	663135828	Never Die Easy: The Autobiography of Walter Payton	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow in spots, but engaging overall	The first thing that must be said about this book is that it employs a very unique format.  The co-author, Don Yeager, interjects narrative in each chapter between direct quotes (some of which last several pages, most a few paragraphs) by people who knew Walter Payton, as well as the man himself. The book travels full circle in that it begins with Payton's death, and then describes his life, career, and retirement years, then finishes with the remarks of those who spoke at his memorial service (Jarrett Payton, Eddie Payton, Mike Singletary, John Madden, and Mike Ditka). The details of Payton's childhood and college career are a bit slow, and some of the observations made by those who knew him are redundant, but as the book progresses into his professional career, it becomes more engaging. It is the last 80-100 pages, though, that really make the book special.  In them, Payton and a number of his closest associates describe his charitable efforts in the Chicagoland area, as well as his ideas about leaving a legacy and enjoying the things in life that so many of us take for granted.  This concluding portion of the book also describes his illness, but does not belabor it, or attempt to evoke pity from the reader.   The book's finest quality is its universal message that the trophies and accolades will eventually tarnish and be forgotten, that records will be broken, but the impact people have on one another's lives is forever.  It is for this cause that Payton wanted to be remembered, and this book seeks to eulogize him in that light.	2001-01-31
US	52488299	R308S1U3IILLZ3	0736030026	472507965	Focused for Soccer	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A must-read for serious soccer coaches	Bill Beswick, one of the world's premier sports psychologists (currently employed by England and Manchester United) and an accomplished coach in his own right, has written a book that is destined to take a place on the priority reading list of all aspiring soccer coaches.  In it, he describes the mental, emotional, psychological, and lifestyle aspects of a complete player.  The book is full of tables, checklists, and charts for self and team assessment, and the book has been beautifully tailored so as to be applicable for both coaches and players.  The main strength of this book, though, is its practical recommendations for every topic it addresses (visualization, self-control, team cohesion, confidence, and mental toughness to name a handful).  For example, Beswick gives the example of a striker who is not scoring goals in the chapter on confidence.  How does the coach, in cooperation with the player, address the situation to help him regain confidence?  Beswick asserts that other components of his job description should be brought to his attention (by asking the player), and that he should be encouraged to self-evaluate his performance based on how well he completed all of the aspects of his job description, not just scoring goals.  This may sound like a &quot;feel good&quot; tactic at first glance, but Beswick also provides case studies of specific players at the highest levels who were positively affected by this approach (In this case, Dean Sturridge of Derby County).  The book encourages a holistic approach to both coaching and playing, and discusses the benefits and potential pitfalls along the way to creating that holistic balance within a team and its players.  Indeed, this is the kind of coaching and type of player that must prevail in the future if soccer is to continue to grow and develop, and Bill Beswick has done the sport of soccer and those who love it a distinct service by writing this book.	2001-01-31
US	52488299	R19VRGDZMJ4QZ6	0840767471	910561161	Developing the Leaders Around You	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Don't add, multiply!	The basic premise of this book is that you can multiply the efficiency of your organization by devoting time to developing the potential leaders around you.  The idea is that once you commit to developing potential leaders, they in turn become leaders who can develop other leaders, and as the number of leaders grows, productivity increases.  The book provides guidelines as to how to identify those individuals who have the potential for leadership, and then gives instruction on how to develop them.   The guidelines and instruction Maxwell gives can be summarized as follows: choose the individuals who are the most willing to grow and learn new things as your potential leaders, and grow them by investing time in them, empowering them for success by delegating wisely and providing counsel.  Maxwell views the development as a nurturing process, very relationally based.  His ideas are sound (though I have oversimplified them here in the interest of brevity), and his examples and descriptions thorough.  There is a somewhat general nature to his examples in some cases, mostly because the book is written for leaders of all types (coaches, supervisors, CEOs, parents...) and it is meant to be universal in scope.   The book does contain a wealth of information, (I must have marked 10-12 pages in order to refer to them later) and gives the reader an opportunity for self-assessment with a questionnaire.  Additionally, the universal quality of his principles enables individual application to unique situations, which is perhaps the most valuable quality of this fine book.	2001-01-25
US	52488299	R2Z9JIL6CAUE52	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Determined &amp; gutsy, yet arrogant and crass	Make no mistake, this book is about cancer and how Lance Armstrong survived it; he describes some races, and includes details about his life, but they are minimal in comparison (the discussion of his son's birth covers only about ten pages).  His determination and will are admirable, but his bravado and arrogance are repulsive.  At one point in the book, just before he is to have brain surgery, he relates the story of how he began to contemplate his existence and his life.  His conclusion?  Basically that if he did not survive, he would look God in the eye and say &quot;if I wasn't good enough, then fine, do whatever you've got to do.&quot;  He does explain his agnosticism to an extent: a bad experience with his adoptive stepfather who was a professing Christian.  His wife, however, is Catholic, and he tells a story in the book about how he bought a crucifix for himself and a friend of his who had cancer also.  On the topic of religion, like virtually everything else, including cycling, Armstrong comes off as a person who thinks he can do whatever he wants and not have to answer to anyone.  In this way, he is little more than a misguided rebel. That having been said, however, he does display some redeeming qualities in addition to his stubborn will to beat cancer: his efforts in founding a charitable foundation are commendable, and his understanding of his &quot;duty&quot; as a survivor of cancer to others who struggle with the disease, as well as the families of those who have fallen victim to it, are both praiseworthy and insightful.  I cannot help but come away with the impression that Armstrong is still very much in the process of self-discovery, and that this book is just his journey so far.	2001-01-12
US	52488299	R37WR9Y6QZIVYU	0446394599	757546814	Lincoln on Leadership: Executive Strategies for Tough Times	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent as a leadership text and as a mini Lincoln bio	I was initially attracted to this book because of its author, who co-authored Coach K's leadership/coaching manual.  It was not long into reading this book, however, that I found the Lincoln that Phillips describes as fascinating as ever.  The stories about Lincoln contained in this text illustrate well the leadership principles that Phillips tries to communicate to his readers, and the book is well-balanced between the episodes of Lincoln's life and career, and leadership tenets.  Especially helpful (as in the Coach K book) are the summary pages at the end of each chapter (in this book, they are called &quot;Lincoln principles&quot;), which highlight and reinforce the important lessons from the previous pages.  Having read this book, I not only have a renewed respect for our 16th President, but I also have a better understanding of leadership and how the principles in this book, exemplified by Lincoln, are applicable in daily life.  Additionally, the book is neither exceptionally long nor very &quot;technical,&quot; so it lends itself to reading in only a few sittings, which I found a positive aspect also.	2001-01-06
US	52488299	R31UL66HV48RJI	155874875X	376265559	Chicken Soup for the Sports Fan's Soul: Stories of Insight, Inspiration and Laughter in the World of Sport	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An entertaining compendium of anecdotes	From humorous to serious, the stories contained in this book are well worth reading.  Some of the stories are written by the athletes themselves, others by the journalists who covered them, and still others by the everyday sports lover no one has ever heard of outside the communities in which they play and coach.  This book covers virtually every sport from little league to the Olympics and professionals, although my four star rating rather than five is a result of the fact that only one soccer and one or two hockey stories appear in the book.  Notwithstanding the lack of coverage of my two favorite sports, however, this book made me laugh aloud, and made tears well in my eyes as an athlete, a coach, and a father.  The book is worth buying if only for the quotations that precede several of the chapters.  Overall, it is a book that can be read in one sitting, or a story at a time; either way, it will inspire and delight anyone who loves sports, and the best and worst in all of us they evoke.	2001-01-03
US	52488299	RJGC866C13VK2	1556524013	145333146	My Bloody Life: The Making of a Latin King	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A captivating book, but...	it seems that this author is not too far removed from the life he describes within the book's pages.  The narrative begins with his childhood experiences, all of which were tales of abuse of one kind or another, save the odd baseball game.  It progresses into his full-fledged gang life (which comprises the majority of the book), graphically retelling his involvement in violent crimes, drugs and alcohol, and promiscuous sexual activity.  The book concludes with his demise into addiction, and the circumstances of his exit from the gang.  In all, the narrative covers approximately 15 years of his life.<br />There is a sense of machismo and pride in some of the episodes he describes (especially in some of his sexual encounters and disrespect for the police), and a definite nostalgia comes over the narrative when he discusses the origins of the Latin Kings, and the days when Latino gangs did not fight against one another, even though his first hand experience in those days was almost non-existent in the book.<br />In other locations, his narrative assumes a sincere tone of regret, especially when he recalls the victims of violent acts, many of whom were not gang members.  Another example of this dichotomy is his chosen pseudonym: Reymundo, which in Spanish is Rey (king) and mundo (world).<br />It occurs to me that the author of this book is still very much attempting to discover who he is, and trying to interpret his life so far.  As a reader, it is a rare glimpse indeed to witness a portion of one man's life in such a way.	2000-11-06
US	52488299	R1DK3V2EL4ZYEV	1570280940	754253643	Coaching Soccer	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good compilation of insights	This book is a series of articles on widely varying topics related to soccer, authored by many different coaches and prominent personalities in the sport.  The book covers virtually everything from elementary concepts (shooting, passing, etc.) to more advanced topics (zonal defending, wing play, interval training) and everything inbetween (restarts, goalkeeping, nutrition, even sportsmanship).  The book provides an excellent overview of many topics, and includes activities with diagrams for most concepts.  I am involved in coaching from u9 to the collegiate level, and have found this book a valuable resource.  My only complaint is its organization; the book contains a short biographical statement for each contributor (all listed in one location), but there is no index, which makes it somewhat difficult to find information on a specific topic, such as 1 v. 1 defending.	2000-10-03
US	52488299	R3SG99V6WDGTPK	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The most complete volume on apologetics currently available	This book is, quite simply, exhaustive.  Geisler has compiled a lifetime's research in this volume.   Arranged alphabetically, this work covers just  about every imaginable topic that relates, even remotely, to the defense of  Christianity.  Other major religions (Islam, Mormonism, etc.) and schools  of philosophical thought, (gnosticism, deism, nihilism, etc.) as well as  their founders or major advocates (Nietzsche, Mohammed, Kant, etc.) are  presented and analyzed, and Biblical topics (everything from the Trinity to  Noah's Ark)are explained and examined in context.  Each entry finishes with  a list of works consulted/suggested reading, which is helpful for the  individual who is attempting research on a narrow topic. Overall, this book  is the ultimate apologetics tool; it is useful for both the novice and the  well read apologist.  Its organization is logical and user-friendly, making  the book feasible as a reference book, study aid, or independent read.   Finally, the book also contains an extensive bibliography, an article index  and a scripture index, all of which lend to greater productivity and ease  of use.	2000-09-04
US	52488299	R1U8KMA7VFR8D5	0446526266	70916759	Leading with the Heart: Coach K's Successful Strategies for Basketball, Business, and Life	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent for the business and sports minded alike	Coach K has written a genuinely entertaining and conceptually sound book  on leadership.  He not only leads with his heart, he speaks from it also.   This book is honest and poignant.  The bulleted lists of major ideas that  accompany each chapter are exceptionally helpful tools for review, and the  ideas he presents are applicable to both the business world and the sports  world.  I would recommend this book to anyone, but first to coaches of all  sports--Truly, Coach K is doing it the right way.	2000-08-20
US	52488299	R2PNTX2X43F8G7	0446607258	79911364	Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes	Books	4	241	247	N	N	A good book for entertainment or education	Hamilton's mythology deserves its place with Bulfinch's mythology as one of the primary anthologies of classical mythology.  Although the book covers Greek/Roman myths thoroughly, the Norse myths are touched upon only  briefly, which is why I have given the book four stars rather than five.  Nonetheless, the quality of the book is excellent, and it is useful as a  volume to be read for entertainment, and as a classroom primer (I myself  have taught a Mythology class using it as the primary textbook).  Hamilton's retellings are engaging, and her scholasticism is evident  throughout--a small example is her use of the less popular Roman names for  the primary gods (Jupiter, Juno, Mars, etc.) when they are found in myths  of Roman origin.  Hamilton also includes information at the beginning of  most chapters about the source of the myth and its author, which is very  helpful.  She synthesizes the longer myths, such as the Trojan War (found  in the Iliad) and the quest for the golden fleece in such a way as to  highlight their major events and give the reader a flavor of their content.  Overall, I have not encountered a better survey of classical mythology in  one volume.  Incidentally, if the reader desires more information on the  Norse Myths, I recommend Kevin Crossley-Holland's Norse Myths, which is  also an excellent volume.	2000-07-19
US	52488299	R15BM3JWIV91C8	188694749X	229012372	Captain for Life: And Other Temporary Assignments	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Entertaining and modest	John Harkes, who has had arguably the most successful international soccer career among Americans to this point, tells the engaging tale of his soccer career from his roots in Kearny, NJ, all the way through his removal from  the US Men's National Team just before World Cup 98.  Throughout the book,  the style is entertaining and easy to understand, and unlike some other  sports autobiographies, Harkes does not spend all of his time reminiscing  about his accolades.  He speaks well of individuals he meets along the way,  and describes highlights of his career, such as playing at Wembley with  Sheffield Wednesday, with an honest, child-like enthusiasm.  This book is  worth reading both for fans of soccer, and for individuals who are curious  about the sport and one of its more famous American participants.	2000-07-19
US	52488299	R1AHTXZ18U149F	0029103126	574491319	The Silent Brotherhood: Inside America's Racist Underground	Books	5	7	10	N	N	An informative book	The co-authors (Flynn and Gerhardt) are reporters in the Denver area, where the murder of Alan Berg took place at the hands of the subjects of the book.  The book is reported factually, but gives no glory to Matthews  and his band of followers.  Morris Dees, head of the Southern Poverty Law  Center and bitter enemy of racism in all its forms, had this to say about  the book, &quot;The Silent Brotherhood is a valuable contribution to our  understanding of the Order and others like them.&quot;  The book  accomplishes this by tracing the development of the Order, a far right  extremist group that organized itself and carried out armed robberies to  fund its terrorist activities.  The book chronicles the lives of the  Order's most prominent members as well.  The book culminates in a  recounting of the events near Seattle where Matthews, the leader of the  group, was tracked by authorities and ulitmately met his end.	2000-07-14
US	52488299	R1LSIO1BI2ZXPQ	0679745351	794458901	Among the Thugs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An honest account	Buford's experiences with football (soccer) hooligans, most of them supporters of Manchester United, is an honest and brutal account of what is out there.  Fanatical devotion coupled with fringe politics and dreary  labor situations combine to create a breed of dangerous football supporter.   Buford's tales of traveling to away matches, skirmishes with supporters of  other clubs (as well as police), and the characters and psychology behind  it all make for a fascinating book that is difficult to put down.	2000-07-14
US	52488299	R1ZWVUA11Y82II	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Captivating	Krakauer, a renowned climber and outdoorsman himself, does more than just tell a story in this book--he examines the psychology, the motivation, for the actions of the protagonist.  Why would he leave a large sum of money  and almost certain material success behind in order to challenge nature?   Also of note is that Krakauer does not glorify the decisions of the  protagonist, rather, he tells the story objectively, appealing to reason,  even empiricism.  However, that having been said, the book certainly does  not read like a scientific journal, more like an adventure thriller.  As  the events are recounted and pieced together, they assume a kind of mystery  feel, as readers become compelled to know the outcome of the story.  This  book is a fascinating account written by a man who understands his element.	2000-07-12
US	52488299	RC00NOUQJSS20	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A gripping first person account	Krakauer's own climbing expertise does not impede his writing an account that has universal appeal.  His recounting of the Everest expedition is both triumphant and tragic.  The details of the experience are thorough,  including elaboration on everything from the physical necessities of the  rigorous climb to the culture of the sherpas and respect for the mountain.   The only drawback to this book (and the only reason it receives four stars  instead of five) is the large number of names one must keep track of as a  result of the several teams which were attempting to summit the mountain  during that period of time.	2000-07-12
US	52488299	R7VG06O00ZS8A	006015358X	705468404	The Kings of Chess: A History of Chess Traced Through the Lives of Its Greatest Players	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Entertaining and informative	This excellent book provides a unique look into the history of chess by examining the lives and careers of its prominent players.  Although the text essentially ends with Fischer, it is a worthwhile read.  The author's  style is engaging, and his choice to include only a representative game or  two at the end of each master's chapter makes the book flow nicely as a  story, rather than a manual on chess tactics or strategy.  If you are  interested in learning about the characters who played a role in defining  this great game, Hartston's book is for you.	2000-07-12
US	52488299	R5BTAVIRHSGXL	0399138277	355686416	Mortal Games	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Insight into the life of the world's greatest player	Waitzkin, who also wrote Searching for Bobby Fischer, provides a rare glimpse into the world of Garry Kasparov.  In so doing, he gives the reader an opportunity to see the intricacies of international chess also.   Waitzkin's friendship with Kasparov allows unique and intimate pictures of  the World Champion both at, and away from, the chessboard.  Kasparov's  rival, Anatoly Karpov, and the political tension between the two men play a  large role in the book.  Also included are information about Kasparov's  family and the political upheaval and turmoil they endured, as well as  enlightening accounts of Kasparov's interactions with other chess masters  at various events and competitions around the world.  The very best chess  players always seem to possess a strange and captivating element of  personality, and Waitzkin does well to introduce the reader to Garry  Kasparov's.	2000-07-12
US	52488299	RIST120MEWXUC	0393050327	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Forget the movie...	This book is a &quot;page turner.&quot;  Junger's descriptions are vivid and his attention to detail is thorough.  He recreates the events tastefully, without too much extrapolation or license.  The lives of  everyone affected by the storm, from the fishermen to the coast guard  rescuers to the bar patrons, are presented uniquely, giving perspective to  each.  As is to be expected, the hollywood version of the account fails the  book miserably.	2000-07-12
US	52488299	R1MJ6B010MTR4O	0394748468	826962040	The Norse Myths (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A very complete primer	This book represents a very good mix of a scholastic and entertaining retelling of the classic Norse myths.  Additionally, the text includes historical and points of interest notes on each myth as an appendix.   Readers will find this text enjoyable and informative.	2000-07-11
US	52488299	R2E9E73BZBYP93	0802484484	775804308	7 Men Who Rule the World from the Grave	Books	2	33	47	N	N	Should have been limited to three	This book poses some good arguments, but is tedious as a whole.  Breese can only treat these individuals in a cursory fashion, where most of them have volumes written about individual facets of their lives and  philosophies.  To attempt a discussion about Darwin, Freud, Marx,  Kierkegaard, Wellhausen, Dewey and Keynes (not to mention Einstein, whose  ideas, Breese argues, gave birth to relativism) in a volume of this length  is to create a good introduction, which I think this book accomplishes, but  no more.  Breese's style is at times witty and sharp, but the historical  redundancy of his chapters and the brevity of the discussion on each  individual leave something to be desired.	2000-07-11
US	52488299	R13TOOMRKAPZ8A	0395083532	390790301	J.B.: A Play in Verse	Books	5	41	45	N	N	A landmark achievement	MacLeish's pulitzer prize winning verse play sets the Old Testament book of Job in a semi-satirical modern setting (a circus tent), where JB (Job) undergoes his trials under the watchful eyes of the circus vendors Zuss and  Nickles, who mimic the roles of God and Satan, respectively.  JB's plight  is essentially a play within a play, as the focus of the work tends to be  the interactions between Zuss and Nickles.  MacLeish raises the eternal  questions through these powerful scenes, most notably with the recurring  jingle of Nickles: &quot;If God is God he is not good; if God is good He is  not God...&quot;  Readers of this play are forced to address the questions  themselves while they are entertained and challenged by the proposals of  the characters and the Biblical parallels they represent.	2000-06-15
US	52488299	R7Q7VP71DVX0F	0395083532	390790301	J.B.: A Play in Verse	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A landmark achievement	MacLeish's pulitzer prize winning verse play sets the Old Testament book of Job in a semi-satirical modern setting (a circus tent), where JB (Job) undergoes his trials under the watchful eyes of the circus vendors Zuss and  Nickles, who mimic the roles of God and Satan, respectively.  JB's plight  is essentially a play within a play, as the focus of the work tends to be  the interactions between Zuss and Nickles.  MacLeish raises the eternal  questions through these powerful scenes, most notably with the recurring  jingle of Nickles: &quot;If God is God he is not good; if God is good He is  not God...&quot;  Readers of this play are forced to address the questions  themselves while they are entertained and challenged by the proposals of  the characters and the Biblical parallels they represent.	2000-06-15
