US	52486517	R3NJ14RYY7QPV7	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A wonderful experience in all things English	Connie Willis's new novel \\"To Say Nothing of the Dog\\" is once again a wonderful experience in all things English, in fact, even more so than \\"Doomsday Book\\". Whereas, Doomsday book was the portrayal of the emotional suffering in England during the Black Death, this book is a more relaxed casual stroll through Victorian England. As was done in the Doomsday Book time travel is used as a tool to express what the author really wants to say. This time it's an attempt to save the space-time continuum from collapse when an object is transported forward in time with one of the historians who regularly scour historical periods for the truth. Supposedly, the \\"net\\", which is used to travel time, is safe against such things although this time something has gone wrong. It's the story of two researchers, one male one female, who attempt to repair the damage before it becomes unmanageable. Suffice it to say it is, as expected, a wonderful tale in all of its Englishness. It remains a mystery how an American author can so well portray the English way of life	2005-10-03
US	52486517	R18XFL23X1C6UH	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An astonishing display of emotional depth.	When I first noticed this book on the shelves I was not impressed, from reading the back cover the story appeared a little drab but then I saw that it had won the Hugo and Nebula awards, often a good judge of the quality of a book, so I bought it. I was not to be disappointed. <br /> <br />The title is very appropriate, it really has two meanings in this novel written by Connie Willis. This is not so much a science fiction story but rather a tale of characters in two time zones, the first in 2054 and the second in 1348 medieval England. As such the book refers to the well known Domesday Book written as a kind of assize of the people of England under Royal rule and the second being the recordings the main character makes of the life of the middle ages.  <br /> <br />Kivrin, is a graduate student at Oxford in 2054, a historian in fact, and wishes to travel back in time to truly live the middle ages. Time travel is now commonly used and the paradoxes which are usually discussed are physically impossible. She prepares herself well for the role researching customs, clothes, language,  the common occupations of women of the time and all of the necessary inoculations, such as the plague. The original assignment was to drop in in 1320, 28 years before the plague hit England, and study the life of people in the middle ages. This was to be a brief two weeks and she would then be retrieved. It does not go well and her life there becomes more and more the one she must live to survive. The whole way of life there is completely different from what she is used to but the people are fascinating. Her life with a family of the minor nobility, especially her love of Agnes the incredibly cute 5 year old daughter is simply wonderful, so innocent and delightful. Somehow Connie Willis manages this effortlessly. The horror of the plague is captured with astonishing depth, not the physical effects but the human emotional impact. This is worth reading just for the interaction of the characters. In addition, somehow the author manages to display the \\"Englishness\\" of the people involved, this is remarkable in that she is American. <br /> <br />An astonishing story, Connie Willis can really tell a story. It was like you were there and the tragedy of the black death was as it must truly have been. It's unfortunate that the characters in the modern era (2054) are nowhere near as well developed as those in 1348, nonetheless a great novel. Easily the best I've read for a years.	2005-08-29
US	52486517	R17VY3N0JO0ECW	0425181812	307568938	The Search: The Continuing Story of the The Tracker	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An astonishing book with incredible depth of spirit.	I had recently read \\"The Tracker\\" by Tom Brown Jr. and thought it a remarkable book. It was the shear enthusiasm and telling of the truth that made it so inspirational. It was a kind of retelling of the innocence of his boyhood. He had been extremely lucky in being taught by Stalking Wolf, the Apache shaman, and grandfather of his best friend Rick. He was 83 at the time and became more than a mentor to the 8 year old Tom. Stalking Wolf epitomised the great teacher everyone seeks but does not find in today's world where too many people have isolated themselves from the natural world. <br /> <br />In this second book, which really tells of his time as a young man in his late teens and twenties, Tom Brown writes in a much more mature style although never losing that close connection he has with the natural world or in fact with himself. He is never afraid to truly feel in any situation, a rare quality in any man today. After having learned much that Stalking Wolf could teach him he made his own way living in the wilderness in every area of the US for long periods of time and gaining the experience and connections that make him a great tracker and survivor. At the same time he feels somewhat lost in the modern world and has doubts whether he is making the right choices in life. While his relations and friends tell him to live like others, get a job, get married, have kids etc he only feels at home in the woods. On the other hand Stalking Wolf's words telling to be at home anywhere in the world remain in his mind. It is because the people surrounding him do not know their way that he is confused. Slowly through many experiences, including the tracking of his old teacher as he goes for his final walk, Tom Brown becomes a spirit tracker on the first stage to the keen sight which Stalking Wolf had in abundance in his ability to see the Spirit that moves in all things in action in the world. <br /> <br />An astonishing book with incredible depth of spirit.	2005-08-21
US	52486517	RLZ087Q9TXYP0	0425101339	605002838	The Tracker: The True Story of Tom Brown Jr.	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Its worth every cent and then some.	This is a marvellous book. Although the cover and back-cover illustration and summary are sensationalised the book itself is not. It is the spiritual insight gained by Tom Brown as he learns both from his Apache teacher/mentor/guide and the world itself that stands out in this book. His period of four years as a kind of apprentice of the old man and the deep friendship with Rick, the old man's grandson, are the cornerstones of a great story. It resounds, to some degree, with the adventures of Tom Sawyer or Huckleberry Finn although his was a clearer instruction to the spirit that moves in everything. There is no question that the teacher's continuing appearance of looking at the spirit itself acting in the world is true. This can be seen by anyone paying enough attention for long enough.  <br /> <br />I'm glad I bought this book and gave it to my father to read. It is good to know that such stories are still possible in this sanitised world. I am looking forward to reading more of these stories. Its worth every cent and then some.	2005-07-24
US	52486517	R294HVYTA7PMBR	0452265622	951259034	The Journey Home: Some Words in the Defense of the American West (Plume)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	He had a great sense of adventure.	Much as others have already said Edward Abbey was a remarkable man. There is no doubt that Desert Solitaire stands out like a beacon in the desert of the usual literature, now called nature writing, available today. It is the shear life, zest and energy that permeates the work as it does here, although not all the time, in \\"The Journey Home\\". Abbey's stories this time are more personal and although still not at all self conscious they are deeper because of this. In this sense they are akin to the great work of Jack Turner, \\"The Abstract Wild\\" and Doug Peacock's \\"Grisly years\\". At no time do they suggest they are great writers, rather it is their spirit which wakes the reader with its realness. As yet I have only read these two books of his but each of them is different with its own seams to unwind, the first that of the younger man and the second that of the older. Its unfortunately rare to meet people like Abbey nowadays when much of the way the world is drives out this sense of adventure and joy in nature. This is not made easy by people's unfamiliarity with nature and even fear to tread outside their comfort zones, myself included. But if you want that kind of experience and living at the edge as Abbey knows well how to do then you have to jump off that cliff sometime.	2005-07-24
US	52486517	R29DQ2OBQZDVDS	0826468039	13786041	The Challenge of Bergsonism	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A difficult read but worth it.	Leonard Lawlor has written a small book \\"The Challenge of Bergsonism\\" which analyses and explains Bergson's most difficult work \\"Matter and Memory\\". In \\"Matter and Memory\\" Bergson attempts to relate the mind and the body in terms of what he calls memory. This does not simply mean memory in the way it is understood in common usage. Here, Bergson's concepts of duration, intuition, creation and memory all share in the study.  <br /> <br />Lawlor discusses Bergson's idea of images at first through perception, then onto a deeper study of memory and finally Bergson's philosophy of language. None of these three chapters are separate from each other. They are all interrelated through the above concepts of memory, duration, intuition and creation. The flow of duration of a conscious being is duration itself with its aspects of a flowing of the past to the present so that conscious life is always an awareness of the past even though the totally new is added on each moment. Although life is memory, memory is not simply the past. <br /> <br />These ideas are difficult to fathom and just when you thought you had some sort of handle on them Lawlor wakes you from your satisfied slumber to shock you into further understanding, or at times confusion. It is difficult enough to read Bergson by himself and the sophisticated analysis of Lawlor does not really make this much easier. It is the depth of these concepts and the inability to pin them down that makes this book a difficult read. <br /> <br />As usual I reread Bergson to get a deeper understanding and texts such as Lawlor's try to help make life easier. But once Bergson is properly understood, as Lawlor does, the scope and intuitive character of his work comes to the fore. <br /> <br />A difficult read but worth it.	2005-05-06
US	52486517	R3Q0RVEMKHTRTD	082233397X	247590632	The Nick of Time: Politics, Evolution, and the Untimely	Books	3	30	38	N	N	A good piece of work with more potential	I first became interested in this book after seeing it in a bookshop. Having read some Darwin and a fair bit of Bergson I was interested. It is rare indeed nowadays to see any work at all on the concept of time in any other form than the typical linear classical physics/relativity idea. This posits time as something that either acts as a medium through which matter moves or in the case of relativity as another dimension much like the three known space dimensions. In both cases time is strongly spatialised i.e. thought of in the same way that space is.     Time is of course strongly linked to change whether it is the idea of change prevalent in ancient times e.g. Plato and Aristotle, Heraclitus or the more modern versions used in science. Grosz has studied time's presence through three well known figures Charles Darwin, Friedrich Nietzsche and Henri Bergson. Darwin's concern was how organisms evolved over time, Nietzsche how the human being uses the \\"Will to Power\\" to become more and Bergson was interested in both. That is in how organisms evolved and what duration (time) actually is, especially in comparison to space.     Grosz analyses all of them in turn. She does something unexpected with Darwin, she suggests that natural selection is in fact a positive \\"force\\" rather than a purely negative influence on species. I did not find myself believing this, it makes more of natural selection that it is originally posited to be. In turn she considers the ideas of Nietzsche who did foresee Bergson to some degree in that he proposed \\"The Will to Power\\" which can be recognised a little in Bergson's elan vital. Finally she discusses Bergson's ideas on time/duration, evolution, intelligence, instinct and so on. She studies Bergson far more deeply than either of the other two.     She also relates these concepts to politics especially those of feminism, racism and other forms of political struggle. Her discussion of Bergson is deep and she understands his work well. At times Ifound myself impressed at her whole grasp of Bergson's issues. She locates a kind of complete whole within his work which eluded me. I had read Creative Evolution, Time and Free Will and The Creative Mind but have not as yet covered Duration and Simultaneity or Mind-Energy.     I find that she takes the most from Bergson and relates it at the highest level to much else in our current cultural and political reality. However I did not feel convinced by her study of Darwin and the earlier parts of the book felt a little disjointed. Some parts, especially those on Bergson flowed well together. A good piece of work with more potential.	2005-04-06
US	52486517	R1EJGELBW0P5R7	0201489392	544313852	A Year In The Maine Woods	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A delightful book.	Bernd Heinrich a Zoology Professor at the University of Vermont has written many books on natural history or what is now called nature writing. This is the first I've read and have enjoyed it immensely. His style is a mixture of deep zoological knowledge of the animals and plants of the Maine woods and the pure love of being a human being who can appreciate and really live the surrounding natural world. This is what is needed by all people if they want to appreciate their world. Its a delightful book but does not possess the intensity of Jack Turner's \\"Abstract Wild\\" or Doug Peacock's Grisly writing. But it doesn't really need it, it is just a man living in the woods for a year through the beautiful summer pestered by black flies and the stunning autumn into a cold winter and the new life of spring. The book is also full of very well drawn animals and plants. The story starts with him driving to his cabin with his pet raven Jack who, being a raven, is independent minded and eventually leaves. Its too bad Jack was truly fascinating. There is much to do including the chopping of wood for the winter, taking care of his apple trees, raven watching to do. Its amazing how beautiful nature is when someone is watching with all his heart and mind. A delightful book.	2004-09-14
US	52486517	R26M9VMKHJJ70	041512185X	345722759	The Undivided Universe: An Ontological Interpretation of Quantum Theory	Books	4	70	73	N	N	Hopefully others will continue in his vein.	In this book, David Bohm's (probably) last major work before his death, Bohm and Hiley outline in some detail Bohm's original work on the \\"quantum potential\\" which he developed from de Broglie's earlier attempts some years ago. This book brings together Bohm and Hiley's work dealing with the quantum potential approach for varied quantum phenomena such as photon absorption, photon emission, the measurement problem in quantum physics and so on. Throughout it is wise to remind oneself of Bohm's comment on this approach when he stated that it is only one possible exploration of an idea and not meant as a final theory by any means. Bohm points out repeatedly that in order to develop the quantum theory further it needs new concepts/philosophy to delve into deeper aspects of reality. If these thoughts are not kept in mind then one gets the distinct feeling that there is something incomplete in the work as it stands. Bohm's attempts at another approach are made through his ideas of the holomovement or implicate order which, although nebulous, is explored in its principals at least as in much of Bohm's other works.<br /><br />I don't believe, like other reviewers have stated, that these ideas are vacuuous. New ideas are absoltely necessary in contemporary physics where the pure mathematical developments of string theory feel empty of real depth. Although speculative, at least Bohm's ideas sound physical and have a physical underpinning as those of Schroedinger, Heisenberg and Bohr in the early 20th century. The difference is that these other great physicists had some experimental work to guide them, Bohm does not, or very little. His ideas rely on the ability of experiments to probe deeper levels of reality between what is possible now say 10^-15 m and 10^-35 m, the Planck length. There exists a huge range of orders of magnitude to explore. I believe in fact the last couple of chapters of the book are the really interesting bits which contain such deeper explorations.<br /><br />It is unfortunate Bohm died early and it is hopefull that Hiley et al will continue his great work with the same radical enthusiasm and not be unconsciously hamstrung by the current mechanistic paradigm.	2004-06-20
US	52486517	R36OLGWF4JKJIS	0822941775	419067740	The Will To Create: Goethe'S Philosophy Of Nature	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A superb study of Goethe's philosophy of nature.	I thought long and hard about whether to buy this book but having read it I made the right choice. This book is one of the very best studies of German poet/dramatist Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's work on science. Specifically, regarding his elusive philosophy of nature which is implicit in his works but never really laid out explicitly.    Instead of analysing Goethe's more well known ideas such as the \\"Archetype\\" she concentrates on the less well studied aspects of 1. Polarity, 2. Intensification, 3. Compensation and finally 4. Competition, Reproduction and Gender. Although much has been written on Polarity and to some degree on intensification almost nothing has been done on Compensation and Competition. Most of these former works only explored Goethe's philsophy of nature briefly, Tantillo has looked at it in some depth. Her book is rare for the sense of clarity she has brought to studies on Goethe. Most studies are, to say the least, vague in this regard and Tantillo has brought out why these studies did so basing her conclusions on the original works of Goethe as well as the possible reasons chosen by some authors.     In addition Tantillo clarifies the issue of the Archetypal organism which, before her work, was believed to be akin to a Platonic form, fixed and unchanging. However, she has brought to the fore statements by Goethe which allude to the idea of the archetype as a helpful concept on the path to a deeper understanding of organisms.     Tantillo studies not only Goethe's scientific texts but his literature as well and finds corresponding aspects in both, especially Goethe's novel \\"Elective Affinities\\" which portrays certain characters in a way related to his scientific work. She notes how Goethe believed in a creative nature not based on static laws but rather a nature always willing to express itself anew in some way beyond what already exists; in some sense breaking natural laws. remembering that \\"natural laws\\" are those aspects of the study of nature which have been supposed fixed and unchanging by scientists. She makes the point that Goethe knew about the fact that a human being brings with them certain preformed ideas which colour his/her reception of the new. Principally, the idea that nature is mechanical which therefore does not allow views outside of it.    Tantillo allows one to see that Goethe was a truly radical thinker not just of his own time but ours as well, going way beyond even radically new sciences such as Chaos theory. My only complaints are that she does not study aspects of Goethe's science such as the archetype in more detail and does not consider how to develop Goethe's insights further.	2004-06-02
US	52486517	R28PHLK4CTSFD3	0710072201	662044393	Insights and illusions of philosophy;	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Piaget makes important points.	This book is really a reply to doubts and criticisms of Piaget himself regarding the concept/area of study he calls &quot;philosophical psychology&quot;. The book is of its time, circa ~ 1950's, and this is clear. As such, it is meant as a contemporary reply to both his critics and those he criticises. The concept of philosophical psychology is never really explained throughout but it appears to be the result of philosophical ideas/speculation on the human condition, as is all philosophy. By this I mean that a product of a philosophical system must be also a psychology of human behaviour whether it is ethics based or a result of speculation on perception. The consequences of these hard and fast philosophical ideas e.g. Husserl's phenomenology, or Bergson's intuitionism is to both explain and construct human psychology based on these ideas and thus restrict it, somewhat, within this sphere; all else lies beyond the pail. Note, the very important points that 1. such a construction must be based on mature philosophy i.e. a philosophy constructed in view of the mature human and 2. this kind of structure is not capable of change or adjustment. The consequences of these two salient points are that they do not study how psychology is constructed as a person grows from childhood to adulthood but rather assumes a kind of fixed perspective and, in addition, it can not adjust its premises when confronted with evidence to the contrary, rather it is forced to either reject the data as unreliable or explain the problem away in some way.<br />These two great weaknesses of systematic philosophy are the springboards from which Piaget launches a tirade against such a system. He constructs good arguments to refute attempts by proponents of these systems to in some way be able to state that philosophical psychology can be the equal or even the better of the gradual comprehension of the human psyche through the scientific study of psychology as practised by Piaget himself. <br />At times his arguments are convoluted and very difficult to follow and at others, when his passion gets the better of him, they are almost attacks on the various people involved. Nonetheless they are cogent and relevant in their criticisms and this seems to account for the almost universal lack of such systematic structures saying anything very much nowadays without strong evidence from psychological studies. <br />Piaget is correct here in saying that the scientific approach must be superior to the that of any fixed system. However there are also weaknesses in this view. Although the scientific approach adjusts itself, in a perfect world, to the evidence it does not stop the scientist himself from approaching the subject in a way based already on a certain philosophy e.g. the mechanistic ideas of biology. This too can be counterproductive in not allowing the scientist to &quot;see&quot; with new eyes but rather colour the results in the previously given almost unconscious inner ideas. This similarly applies to the construction of experiments which, using a theory tests the subject expecting to see certain kinds of results. Also, Piaget refuses to believe that intuition can really lead to any psychological insights. This conveniently ignores the fact that scientists themselves make their greatest leaps through intuitions and scientific history is alive with them. <br />Piaget makes important points and the subject deserves further study in all manner of ways whether they be psychological or in some other way.	2004-05-30
US	52486517	RIP08XOV9RQ99	055328942X	723611342	The Shelters of Stone (Earth's Children, Book 5)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Quite good but not like the others.	This is the fifth book in the \\"Earth's Children\\" series of books by Jean Auel with the first two of these being the best by far i.e \\"Clan of the Cave Bear\\" and \\"Valley of Horses\\". It continues the story as Jondalar and Ayla decide to journey back to his home, a good year's trip away. Considering that it's a trip from what is now Russia to France its a considerable distance. Ayla is concerned his people will not take kindly to her but she quickly wins over some, especially Jondalar's sister, mother and the zelandonii who sees something special in her (no surprise there).     The book is quite slow to get going and doesn't have the pace or fascination of the first two or the emotional depth of the \\"The Mammoth Hunters\\" or \\"Plains of Passage\\". It isn't bad however and the author does not appear to have run out of ideas like some do when it comes to a waning of the initial creative impulse so often seen in other series, e.g. Diana Gabaldon.     The book does lack a bit of drive and joy though, some scenes are repetitive and without real passion and the people can sometimes seem one dimensional which they weren't in the earlier books. Nonetheless quite good.	2004-05-30
US	52486517	R30DBJ6ZBWNZFI	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	3	5	7	N	N	For God's sake don't take it seriously.	The Alchemist is what I would call an in between book. It has strong new Age undertones with its fantasy aspects mixed with a self-oriented view of the world rather than a truly spiritual approach. In addition, it is a book with some worth. It has a basic message which attempts to divert the modern human being from the overtly mechanistic and reductionistic trend he/she is currently confined within and push them out into the lived world. The world of passion, art and the spirit. This is a current need. However, it does this in a way which does not actually practice what it preaches. This is not a truly spiritual book and should not be seen as such. It is a book in the vein of &quot;The Celestine Prophecy&quot; which, being a kind of offspring of &quot;The Alchemist&quot;, tries the same thing again with little success. One way to express this is in the following way: The Alchemist takes a drop of water from a massive ocean and calls the drop the ocean rather allowing the drop to lead to the ocean in a very subtle indirect path. Only in such an ineffable approach with the merest hint in the right direction can the truth of existence be experienced.<br />Nonetheless &quot;The Alchemist&quot; is an entertaining book as fiction and can be enjoyed wholeheartedly as fiction. Read it and enjoy yourself. For God's sake don't take it seriously.	2004-05-08
US	52486517	RSW104A9SOO3D	0873959515	129451816	Order and Organism: Steps Toward a Whiteheadian Philosophy of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences (SUNY series in philosophy)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sometimes its worth it.	Murray Code has written a seemingly interesting book called \\"Order and Organism\\". The title, not to mention the outer cover, promise much with regard to how and why life expressed as organisms is what it is. Unfortunately this is deceptive. The book is really about two things: 1. The so-called unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics and 2. Alfred-North Whitehead's philosophy of Organism. As such, it is only incidently about the main title. It's possible there has been a major misunderstanding but I had hoped to see more than this.     Be forewarned, the book is about the possibility of Whitehead's philisophy applied to mathematics and its usefuleness in science. You will need a fairly deep understanding of Whitehead's work already before even attempting this book. Whitehead's work is not explained and is expected to be known. His rather complex theory of organism is not even introduced but assumed.     The chapters are separated into the following: 1. Introduction, 2. Whitehead on Mathematics and Philosophy, 3. Zeno's Paradoxes, 4. On Philosophising Adequately about science, Mathematics and Reality, 5. The Model in Physical Science, 6. The Model of Organism in Physical Science, 7. Mathematics and Necessity and 8. Aspects of Whiteheadian Philosophy of Mathematics. There are interesting aspects to these chapters concerning Zenos paradoxes which, although appearing to have been resolved through calculus, are in fact far deeper than this. The last chapter is fascinating concering the limitations of mathematics and perspective in science. In fact the whole book has snippets of really interesting ideas which are not really helped by the writing style which is difficult and wordy. The fact this text was a PhD thesis doesn't help. It should have been thoroughly revised for reading by people other than Whitehead experts. A thorough introduction to his concepts is essential.     The book takes time to read and most would give up before the half-way mark. I struggled throughhoping for tidbits and found them, occasionally. Most of the time I could read maybe 5-6 pages at a sitting without the tedious writing putting me off.    However, wait and you will be rewarded as you progress, a little, not much, but sometimes its worth it. These rewards come from the  pen of Whitehead rather than the author. Whitehead's ideas are deep and he studies aspects of science not usually looked at because they are so thoroughly ingrained that they remain almost unconscious.    If you want a philosophy of life/organisms that is stimulating, deep and not wholly lacking in the deadness/lifelessness of analysis then read something by Bergson.	2004-04-26
US	52486517	R66Y6R68JN7X6	0140158502	938486140	The Cornish Trilogy: The Rebel Angels; What's Bred in the Bone; The Lyre of Orpheus	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Good as a whole.	Robertson Davies' Cornish trilogy is good, in fact a kind of work of art. Its the second book (which I have already reviewed) which is the main attraction throughout. In fact the second book should be read first of all of the three, followed by the first and third in that order. The second book is a great piece of work and without it the other two would not stand as they do. Its much like a painting and the technique of preliminary drawings of the main work. The main work being the second book and the drawings the first and third books.     Although there are characters in the other two books who are interesting in their own right they have nowhere near the life and depth of Francis Cornish of \\"Bred in the Bone\\". These two books surround the great one on either side sort of like hangers on to a great man hoping for some of the glory themselves.     The first is concerned with the academic life in a Canadian University especially concerning the life of Maria Theotoky a great student of Renaissance legend Rebalais being mentored by the brilliant but socially inept Professor Hollier who is overwhelmed by the arrival of his old friend, the obnoxious Parlabane. Although interesting especially when discussing academic life and the jealousy evident when a reputation or fame is at stake, the novel does not really come to life in the same sense as the second. There are some characters who liven things up such as Maria's mother Mamusia the gypsy half of her. To be honest its difficult to tell where the male leads end and Maria begins, there is really little differentiation. A woman's aspects, as compared to the men involved, do not really come to light. The somewhat stale atmosphere of academia is never expunged by any kind of life, even from the female heroine. Still not bad at all.    The third book details the life of another of the characters in the first, i.e. Professor Darcourt, a priest but now successful academic and his and other's attempt to execute the estate of Francis Cornish, especially the use of the Cornish Foundation and its attempt to support the PhD of a gifted composer Hulda Schnakenburg. It's her fascinating mentor Dahl-Soot, as well as the spirit of Hoffmann who keeps this going.    All told the books enliven each other but the second one gives the whole thing a semblance of greatness. Its Davies' inability to really produce passion and spontaneity which prevents me from singing the books praises.     Good as a whole.	2004-02-17
US	52486517	R3AERMJ0DKDLYX	0140097112	670251056	What's Bred in the Bone (Cornish Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An astonishing book.	I, at first, did not enjoy this book since I am not a fan of the rather cold English way of writing which lacks empathy and joy and is full of cynicism and an almost brutal acceptance of suffering without any concomitant emotions. This changed throughout however and the book is almost a work of art.     The book concerns itself with the life of Francis Cornish from his childhood to middle age with almost no mention of his later life up to his death. There are really two distinct parts to the book, the first deals with Francis's childhood and is written in that witty (and a little dry) style so characteristic of British humour. His childhood encompasses Francis's experiences of the Catholic and Protestant faiths as practised among his relatives who represent almost cliches in this sense. His impressive Grandfather, warm aunt, rarely seen mother and distant father as well as a range of fascinating characters such as Victoria Cameron the Scottish Protestant cook, Zadok the coachman and enbalmer and finally the crusty old doctor. This part builds the final character of Francis, except in one aspect, and gives an idea of why and how his life proceeds.    The second part is really about two people, Francis and Tancred Saraceni the Meister of Art who teaches Francis all about art restoration as well as much that is wise and deep. It is Saraceni who I believe to be the most interesting character and the last step in building Francis as a man, or as Saraceni calls him Corniche. This final part of his character one would call \\"Bildung\\" in German with all that this entails. As Francis develops his art, which started as a little boy with sketches of just about anything, his true talent is revealed. The moment when the Maestro tells him he is a master now is, I think, the finest moment in the book. It is unfortunate that Francis's talent is not further developed after he completes his only Masterpiece \\"The Marriage at Cana\\" a magnificent large oil painting in the 16th Century style. This painting really tells the story of Francis's soul and could have been the start of an incredible career of the Alchemical Master as Saraceni puts it. Unfortunately his career as an artist never takes off and one is disappointed with his lack of drive and passion to continue. It is this last third of the book where it becomes difficult to really enjoy it as much. It must not be forgotten how well Davies writes in this section about art and especially about the soul of art. This is why the book itself is perilously close to a work of art itself.    The last part deals with Francis's life as, first, a low grade spy in the service of MI5 during WWII and finally as an art dealer in Canada. Here too we learn a little more about his father and his one love affair with Ismay, the passion driven beauty of his life. His father never really steps out of his \\"Wooden Soldier\\" shoes but Ismay represents some real women I have known.    An astonishing book and hopefully the remaining ones in the trilogy are as good.	2004-01-21
US	52486517	R1SZ6POME5EIX0	0226505235	504811269	Paradigms and Barriers: How Habits of Mind Govern Scientific Beliefs (Late Editions: Cultural Studies for the End of the Century)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Work that needed doing, good but not enough.	This book by Howard Margolis is really an academic text and is certainly not intended for the average non-academic reader. There are plenty of readers who read interesting material such as the title promises but are not experts in the field. Whether they be academics themselves, in other fields, or scholars or simply someone willing to read more intellectually than the magazine and coffee crowd.<br />Although vaguely related to Kuhn's well known work, Kuhn never suggested that scientific advances were hindered by old habitual forms of scientific thought. Nonetheless there does exist a relationship in that Kuhn thought that there were periods of ordinary science followed by revolutionary steps which could have been prevented because of old ways of thinking. Old ways of thought is one claim but actually stating that it is the typically human trait of habits that cause these problems is another. <br />Margolis does exactly this, and rightly so. It has been clear from  behavioural studies that such habitual ways of thought strongly interfere with a new approach to a problem. Margolis suggests that it is in fact such habits which interfere here bringing to mind the commonly known expression about having to wait until your opponents died until it could be accepted. Margolis does not investigate this psychological aspect but rather makes his point early on in the book and then spends the rest of it, some 80 %, in demonstrating how this occurred in explicit detail for the Copernican revolution, Boyles work on gas theory and phlogiston.<br />Unfortunately two main points must be made, firstly the writing style of Margolis. This kind of writing is made for academic analysis and not for reading. The book is not well written and is clearly what has been noticed by earlier reviewers. The second point relates to the fact that Margolis takes much time in describing the facts surrounding each of the different cases dealt with. It is not a criticism that these aspects are dealt within such laborious detail, rather it is the fact that the psychology of human habitual thought is not studied in anywhere near the required depth to explain why this kind of thinking persists (it is not enough just to say that certain kinds of facts force this).<br />Nonetheless this kind of work needed to be done and Margolis has done the groundwork to continue a more in depth study of the human thought that gives rise to this kind of scientific history.	2004-01-17
US	52486517	R1ZVQFV5ZRF1L4	0671781383	885790086	Man's Search for Meaning: An Introduction to Logotherapy	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A work deserving of the highest respect.	Viktor Frankl deserves the highest respect, much as Nelson Mandela does today although the severity of the experience would have been somewhat harsher but less daunting in time. Frankl's book covers two main aspects in his title: Search for Meaning, the first details his experiences in Auschwitz, one of the worst concentration camps used by the Nazis and controlled by the SS. The second part of the book outlines his own way of psychotherapy entitled Logotherapy, refering to the Greek word Logos, in this case related to meaning. It approaches the process of psychotherapy in a completely different way from that of Freud. <br />It's the first part of the book which completely captures the reader, its simply unputdownable, Frankl's suffering in the camps is remarkable in the sense of the humanity he talks of rather than the  more than obvious horrors he must have been exposed to. The camp changed him as a human being or rather, one feels, that Frankl grows into his own humanity expanding what was already there in potential form as he reminds the reader that his early Logotherapy manuscript was with him in the camp, although lost. It is edifying that he returns from the camp in a spirit of underlying trust in humanity's ability to, so to speak, save itself. <br />In the second part he describes Logotherapy and the techniques used to put it into practice. The therapy deals with the search for meaning in a person's life and the lack of it in present society. This has of course been even more exacerbated in current times compared with the more moderate version of the 50's and 60's of Frankl's era. It is in fact remarkable that this kind of therapy has not taken over from other forms given its obvious improvement over older more mechanical and less human forms of therapy.<br />Its a remarkable work deserving of the highest respect.	2004-01-17
US	52486517	R37LIPUOH5BBBA	0140600043	918319	General system theory: Foundations, development, applications (Penguin university books)	Books	3	51	69	N	N	A book for the development of system ideas.	This book is quite old now and shows some of its age. At the time the idea of system theory was new and invigorating although it still appears that the theory was not radically new by any means even then. <br />Bertalanffy discusses the idea of a system mainly through dynamical systems in his early chapters but also discusses important issues such as open systems, teleology and the organism considered as a system. By no means does this remove the dogma of the reductionists but the whole idea can be incorporated within it by some adjustments and expansions of the original concept. In that sense it is still possible for a biologist to consider animals and plants as complex machines. Nothing in this book really forces anyone to onsider an alternative.<br />On the other hand his later chapters from chapter 8 onwards discuss truly fascinating questions in psychology and the study of language especially noting the work of Whorf. It is these last chapters which make the book interesting. In its day it would have been something that evoked interest and fascination but now its the as yet unexplord aspects of the study of man which remain as they have always been an enigma and a source of endless wonder.<br />A book for the development of system ideas.	2003-12-12
US	52486517	R3LP4DU0OKAQ66	0416573207	566170443	Man Meets Dog	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The book is worth every penny and then some.	As usual with Konrad Lorenz the book deserves 5 stars. He has the most charming writing style and writes of his many dogs, and cats, in tones of wonder, friendship, joy, surprise and love. Here is a man who found his life task, he simply couldn't do anything else, it is his love, his joy his purpose in life. Its rare that this happens so easily in someone's life and in that sense he is a most fortunate man as well as the fact that he recognised this path early on in his life, even as a young boy.<br />Lorenz not only enjoys writing but does so from both a practical and deeply knowledgeable orientation. In this book he describes the many remarkable experiences he had with his dogs and also gives plenty of practical adice: such as when to buy a dog, what sort of dog to buy, dogs and children, canine personalities etc etc. As with his other book &quot;King Solomons Ring&quot; the book is full of his wonderful little drawings which are most expressive of each character trait of his dogs and cats. <br />The book is simply invaluable as a guide to sharing your life with your very own devoted friend, whether it be a jackal or lupus dog. there is much that was unknown to me such as the previous distinction between dog types or the fact that a dog's eyesight is poor and that dogs are capable of lying, astonishing.<br />The book is worth every penny and then some.	2003-12-09
US	52486517	R2L3UBWDNILW8J	0415267471	603104445	King Solomon's Ring (Routledge Classics)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A must have book for everyone, anyone.	A rare 5 stars for this one, simply delightful, a joy to read. Lorenz is so full of love for his craft, yes I say craft because that is the way he treats his study of animal behaviour. Not an average scientist but rather somehow he has that rare ability to both love his work and be able to write about it to a lay audience with wonderful wit, charm, wisdom and grace. He's a little like Adolf Portmann except with more humour but the same love.<br />I mentioned that he writes this book for lay readers, not scientists, and unlike the contemporary crowd, who often write in a more condescending way he manages to get across the animals and their complex behaviour without ever at any stage making the reader think himself inadequate to the task. He writes as a human being experiencing the wonders of the natural world and does not artificially reduce it to ashes and leache the life out of it as others do. Here he actually makes people want to become naturalists or biologists. There is no finer writer in the sciences.<br />In the book, a little tome of 190 pages, he discusses a whole range of animals he studies notably, often from his own home where he keeps an entire managerie of ducks, geese, jackdaws, parrots, dogs, hamsters, water shrews etc etc. The whole house is alive with the raucous cries and crazy comings and goings of his companions. He gives much to the reader such as how to manage an aquarium properly, how to look after animals correctly so their lives are well lived and the book is chocka-block full of animal tales. The kind of tales myths and legends are grown from. I mean that the tales are often so remarkable, e.g. the intelligence shown by his pet raven or the story of two men carrying a canoe followed by several goslings, a large red dog and some ducklings. Its droll and humouress and full of joy. And, in it all the way through are his wondrous drawings portraying everything he tells of in the book.<br />A must have book for everyone, anyone.	2003-11-29
US	52486517	R2E911AAZMEJY0	0195002172	194777614	The Idea of Nature (Galaxy Books)	Books	3	20	23	N	N	A worthy study, at times illuminating.	R. G. Collingwood has produced a little book detailing how the concept/idea of nature changed throughout western history (notably any Chinese or Indian construction is left out). Collingwood has a very deep understanding, especially of the Greek philosophers, and one feels his familiarity with their work in contrast to later philosophers such as Spinoza or Descartes. He bases his study of this change on three fundamental principles he has singled out to describe &quot;nature&quot; within each period. These periods are defined by the Greek/middle ages period extending from 500BC to around the 14th Century, the Renaissance period extending from the 15th Century to the late 19th and the modern one from there onwards. In each case he characterises the conception of nature as, (in a book of 180 pages) <br />1. Greek period: nature as a living organism, 70 pages.<BR>2. Renaissance period: nature as a machine, 20 pages.<BR>3. Modern period: nature viewed as evolving, 60 pages.<br />the remaining pages are introduction of the main trends. Collingwood in each case analyses the general view within the period and provides examples in each case although his treatment of Aristotle is meagre when compared to Plato. the Renaissance view is not as developed as the other two and many philosophers of note are not discussed. In the 18th Century Locke is briefly mentioned as is Hume but Berkeley and Kant are given the floor. Of the 19th Century Hegel is the main one although other German idealists are barely mentioned eg Fichte, Schelling, Schopenhauer; in fact the other contributers to this trend such as Schiller and Goethe are not mentioned even when they often gave the original impetus to such an approach. In the modern period no philosophers other than Alexander and Whitehead are really discussed with the main drive being allocated to the physicists who developed quantum mechanics and relativity although Bergson is briefly discussed more as an aside and brief sojourn away from themodern trend a kind of throwback to an earlier time.<br />Collingwood criticises the main theories of each period and once again it is the ancient philsophers who he understands best and his description of their ideas is the fullest. His critiques appear just in this era but varies as he discusses the other periods. In some cases I feel his criticism is unjust especially when it does not seem that his statements apply. Overall the study is in depth and justified and much can be learned from this book instead of having to read each philosopher in turn. Nonetheless Collingwood is one man and the book represents an opinion with good justification throughout. A fuller study would have taken years to write and been produced in several volumes, instead Collingwood cuts it down as much as possible and looks at the bare bones. A worthy study, at times illuminating.	2003-11-20
US	52486517	R2MOKA8D2SBQ3W	0805014020	124400656	The Sane Society	Books	5	54	56	N	N	A brillian and creative analysis with possible solutions.	I had heard of Erich Fromm for some time but had not read any of his work and then decided I should have a look and see what all the fuss was about. To say the least Fromm does an excellent job of attempting a critique of modern society whether it be western capitalism or eastern communism. He considers the question: is current society sane ? He concludes no and pushes aside the claims of most psychologists that a sane member of society is one who can adjust himself/herself to it. Naturally such a claim means that society itself must be sane. Fromm instead supposes that there are other more objective measures of sanity than the society one is a part of. Such measures were considered by Freud early in the 20th century and led to his idea of the libido which unless satisfied produces insanity and neuroses. Fromm himself studied under Freud in psychoanalysis but came to the conclusion that Freud's ideas, although basically correct in their aims, incorrectly based all of man's behaviour on the libido.<br />Instead Fromm analyses current society, circa 1950's, on the basis of human nature which arises from the human condition, his whole existence. Fromm finds that man has, over the centuries, removed himself from nature (the metaphor of the expulsion from the Garden of Eden) which formed for him the womb and the spiritual connection needed by him. Instead man developed his own world which was formed through the creation of villages and towns and agriculture and some independence from nature as the provider and sustainer. The eventual extreme aspects of this alienation are found in both communism and capitalism as seen today where the individual no longer feels a relatedness to others in the society, an alienation which itself can lead to insanity. The fact that people are capital and not &quot;people&quot; anymore and that their work becomes capital as well which can be interchanged with other forms of capital which have no human base produces ill health and a mentally ill society. This also applies to communism except with the addition of enforced governmental structures. Fromm notes how sanity can only be achieved through changes in all aspects of the human condition at once rather than piecemeal attempts. That is his economical, political, spiritual and social needs must be satisfied at the same time. He contrasts earlier centuries to the modern one and how a capitalistic view imposes uniformity even under the illusion of individuality.<br />From attempts some way out of this crisis through what he calls &quot;communitarian socialism&quot; which applies directly and concretely to an individual's present circumstances. Fromm is widely read and never forgets to note the important authors who led the way before him. Similarly he is knowledgable in surveys and studies over the years concerning attempts at an improvement of the human condition applied in industry by others. It is the satisfaction of human needs in the present circumstances which lie on the road to a better society not who controls the means of production.<br />Unfortunately after a detailed and brilliant analysis of society Fromm does not spend anywhere near the same amount of time in the resolution of its problems. In the second last chapter, about 70 pages of a total of 360, he attempts it. One feels that he never quite finished this chapter and that he had much more to say, or rather there was much he mentioned briefly but did not analyse deeply enough. He did not discuss the problems which could arise in these solutions as they are implemented. This is disappointing.<br />Nonetheless, simply for a deep and insightful analysis of society and human nature Fromm cannot be faulted. The book is a must read for these reasons alone. It is unfortunate his ideas were never put into practice. Society continues in its march towards insanity as the capitalist ideal is approached and people are more and more dehumanised. No wonder such massive problems exist.ll society. This also applies to communism except with the addition of enforced governmental structures. Fromm notes how sanity can only be achieved through changes in all aspects of the human condition at once rather than piecemeal attempts. That is his economical, political, spiritual and social needs must be satisfied at the same time. He contrasts earlier centuries to the modern one and how a capitalistic view imposes uniformity even under the illusion of individuality.<br />From attempts some way out of this crisis through what he calls &quot;communitarian socialism&quot; which applies directly and concretely to an individual's present circumstances. Fromm is widely read and never forgets to note the important authors who led the way before him. Similarly he is knowledgable in surveys and studies over the years concerning attempts at an improvement of the human condition applied in industry by others. It is the satisfaction of human needs in the present circumstances which lie on the road to a better society not who controls the means of production.<br />Unfortunately after a detailed and brilliant analysis of society Fromm does not spend anywhere near the same amount of time in the resolution of its problems. In the second last chapter, about 70 pages of a total of 360, he attempts it. One feels that he never quite finished this chapter and that he had much more to say, or rather there was much he mentioned briefly but did not analyse deeply enough. He did not discuss the problems which could arise in these solutions as they are implemented. This is disappointing.<br />Nonetheless, simply for a deep and insightful analysis of society and human nature Fromm cannot be faulted. The book is a must read for these reasons alone. It is unfortunate his ideas were never put into practice. Society continues in its march towards insanity as the capitalist ideal is approached and people are more and more dehumanised. No wonder such massive problems exist.	2003-11-11
US	52486517	RESQ5S8K81UF2	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Get the next one, its worth it.	&quot;A Forest of Stars&quot;, the second of the &quot;Saga of the Seven Suns&quot; series, although exactly how much it is about the Ildirans (the occupants of the planet surrounded by said stars) is debatable, mostly its about human beings, individual human beings such as Jess Tamblyn, the Roamer miner, Cesca Peroni, the Roamer Speaker, King Peter, the puppet king trying not to be so much of a puppet, Tasia Tamblyn, commander of a space cruiser in the Hanseatic navy attempting to get some revenge for the death of her family by the hydrogues, and then come the Ildirans mostly high powered officials such as the Mage-Imperator, a ruthless tyrant who cares only for the survival of the Empire, his son the lover of Nira, the green priest, the Admiral who sacrifices his life to get some revenge. There are other characters although nowhere near as developed e.g. the hydrogues, the Klikiss robots and so on. The war that started in the first book continues in this one getting more intense, in fact all round a better book. The hydrogues start a war of total destruction of other races, attempting to rid the galaxy of the verdani (the worldtrees with sentience), the wentals (space based water intelligence), and eventually the faeroes (fire based entities living inside stars), humans and Ildirans. The Klikiss, with the help of their rebellious robots, are gone, none left and it seems that noone can stop the hydrogues although the faeroes unexpectedly coming to the aid of the verdani and humans suprises the hydrogues who now face them, the humans, the Ildirans, the verdani and unknown to them the last vestiges of the wentals. <br />The book is of course about people but the entire scheme concerns the vast conflict between these other races stretching over the whole galaxy. The book is much better than the first in the series although it leaves gaps and some plot problems e.g. the Mage-Imperator mentioned that the humans killed millions of hydrogues when lighting the Klikiss torch and the Chairman fails to see why the Ildiran Emperor did not warn them that would be the result when he knew this would happen and since he did not warn them the implications thereof such as the attempt by the Ildirans to eliminate the humans by using the hydrogues to do it. This is very obvious and the seemingly intelligent chairman of the Hanseatic League misses it completely. There are many other failures e.g. why not develop weapons which attack the hydrogues via a biological approach, how is the fact that the Klikiss robots are trying to destrot humanity not clear yet etc etc.<br />It is worth it though and the pace of the novel accelerates to a high speed, I read it in two days. It does make it worth getting the next one.	2003-09-26
US	52486517	R1JZT2ZQFIMDPM	0446610577	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #1	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good but not great.	This is a good science fiction saga, as the cover says. Nowhere near the complexity or shear beauty of Frank Herbert's Dune but nonetheless quite good. The story concerns several races within the milky way galaxy, mostly the outer spiral arm. The humans originating from Earth after havings sent out large population ships to colonise other habitable planets encounter the Ildirans who possess a faster than light star drive which they benevolently give to humans and form a loose alliance with them. It is now 200 years after these events and humans have colonised 69 planets throughout their part of the spiral arm whereas the Ildiran Empire being much larger would perhaps have several thousand. Unbeknownst to all except the Ildiran Emperor and possibly the Klikiss robots left over from a dead civilisation 10000 years ago there exists a third race called Hydrogues a very powerful race who live at extremely high pressures within gas giant planets and possess diamond hulled spheres and travel from place to place via wormholes. The killing of millions of Hydrogues by humans in an experiment to ignite a gas giant lead to a terrible war which the Hydrogues are winning easily given their superior technology. No longer are humans or Ildirans able to mine hydrogen from the gas giants needed for their faster than light drives. This is the basic story along with the so-called Roamers who are an outlying group of humans living outside the Hanseatic League making up the main group of humans in the galaxy. Many characters play a part in this drama as the hydrogue war gathers pace and the schemes of the Ildiran Emperor and the Hanseatic League Chairman evolve. <br />The story is well told although possesses many weaknesses, for example throughout the Ildirans are portrayed as a stagnant civilisation without drive, the Hanseatic League as only obsessed with politics and worshipping a puppet king, whereas the real powers are the enigmatic Klikiss robots which, throughout, appear dangerous and the Roamers who form the creative drive within humanity, sort of a romantic notion with little reality. <br />Nonetheless its worth reading and nowadays really good science fiction is hard to come by, with Ender's Game being an exception. Nothing seems to compare with the scope of Dune or the intrigue and scale of the Foundation Series.<br />Good but not great. Hope it gets better as the story proceeds.	2003-09-24
US	52486517	R18NV7OUSNK2FA	9027724008	18829674	Goethe and the Sciences: A Reappraisal (Boston Studies in the Philosophy and History of Science) (Volume 97)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An essential item in my library.	This is a book of essays contributed by numerous historans, philosophers of science and scientific researchers specially focusing on Goethe's scientific work as well the philosophy of nature inherent in his approach to studying natural phenomena.    The book is separated into three parts: I. Goethe in the history of science, II. Goethe in Scientific methodology and Ontology and III. The contemporary use of Goethe's approach.     Each section has contributions which are deep analytical studies in their area, recapitulations of Goethe's stance and in some instances a remarkably insightful and philosophically/spiritually deep comprehension of the scale of Goethe's aim in science which explains the degree to which he himself considered his scientific work as more important than his artistic achievements.   As an example consider (not all):    Jeffrey Barnouw: a study on Helmholtz's comments on Goethe's work.    Douglas E. Miller: Goethe's colour science and its translation from the German into English.    Carl Friederich von Weizsaecker: a very deep study of Goethe's concept of metamorphosis.    Dennis L. Sepper: Sepper's superb, in depth, study of both Newton's Optics and The Farbenlehre which led to the book published by CUP.    Arthur G. Zajonc: The comprehension required in order to know what Goethe meant when saying that \\"the phenomenon is already the theory\\".    Ronald H. Brady: The understanding of both form and cause in Goethe's phenomenology.    Frederick Amrine: A study of the contemporary work of Jochen Bockemuehl in plant metamorphosis.    and finally a postscript summarising the individual contributions and their overall standing regarding the current view of Goethe's scientific contribution.    This is a must book for anyone wanting to not only get some understanding of Goethe's contribution to science, the philosophy of science but of the spirit of science as well. Ever since reading the superb book \\"The Wholeness of Nature\\" by Henri Bortoft I have attempted to purchase a copy of this text which unfortunately has been much too expensive. Luckily I obtained one second hand. It has been worth it. Along with the aforementioned book by Bortoft, Portmann's work on \\"Animal Forms and Patterns\\" and Jack Turner's \\"Abstract Wild\\" it becomes a member of essential items in my library.	2003-08-31
US	52486517	R3F6MG76O3EUK0	0199104247	681731431	The Cavalryman (The Roman World Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful booklet.	As usual Peter Connolly produces an excellent little booklet to accompany \\"The Legionary\\" and the various other books in this series on the Roman world. Both \\"The Legionary\\" and this one deal with the life of Tiberius Claudius Maximus who lived in the time of Trajan. His life in the army comprised both serving as a legionary and then later as a cavalryman in the Emperor's forces in the region of Romania, then called Dacia. This is the second part of his story, this time serving as a cavalryman. Connolly being an experimental archeologist knows what he is talking about and provides detailed reconstructive drawings of his own reconstructed arms, saddles, armour and whatnot required by a cavalryman of the time. In addition he is a good artist and provides some quite atmospheric portrayals of life in the Roman army.<br />The book is thin but informative and packed with wonderful illustrations. Originally intended for a younger audience it is nevertheless a superb piece of work and is useful for anyone interested in the Roman army whether he/she be a wargamer, modeller or reenactor. Not as serious as the Osprey series or as simple minded (and inaccurate) as much of historical fare now available for children, this book is never far from view on my bookshelf merely for the enjoyment of leafing through its pages.<br />A wonderful booklet.	2003-08-04
US	52486517	R1XG999LX52BP4	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Worth saying.	I very much emjoyed this book. No matter if some of the protestations are exagerated, it was funny and that is what I enjoyed the most about it. Unfortunately, even if it is correct in any of its outlandish claims e.g. vote rigging by Bush et al, the black vote quashed, 60% of deathrow inmates innocent etc etc then this presents a very sorry and sad state of affairs about the US to the world. <br />The worst aspect has got to be the reluctance of an American publisher to publish the book, even after September 11, truth is what matters not blame as is usually the case. In fact rather than admit the foreign policy of the US engendered its hatred within the Arab world this was neatly bandaged and avoided by concentrating on the perpetrators only rather than asking fundamental questions. <br />No doubt some of the statements listed are facts drawn from publicly available government lists such as the rather disturbing list of bills enacted by George Dubya in his brief time in office. Luckily Moore doesn't only harangue Bush but assaults the \\"other\\" party in similar fashion. A book that should be read by all concerned voters especially if even a small piece of it is accurate, woa betide if a large percentage of it is. Much is said that people actually think themselves but feel powerless to do anything about. A similar state of affairs reigns supreme in Australia, the utopia of pseudo-america created by our beloved Prime Minister. All of America's disadvantages with none of its advantages. Maybe the good aspect is that it can only go up from here.<br />Worth saying.	2003-08-04
US	52486517	REHU6CRHAM07E	0750691174	869163895	Laminar Flow and Convective Transport Processes (Butterworth-Heinemann Series in Chemical Engineering)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent research and reference text.	Gary Leal is best known for his work on free surface flows of drops and as such this book shows some of techniques used to solve for such flows although this is in the minority. Overall this book is heavily research oriented with meticulously worked solutions for trasnport processes in fluid dynamics. The book covers asymptotic approximations, creeping flows and some heat transfer as well as some slender body theory. It comprises many, once, research problems in the fluid dynamics field, each of them worked out in detail. It requires good mathematical skill and knowledge as well as a good physical understanding. If you possess these two prerequisites the book is an excellent source of understanding in analytical fluid dynamics. There is much explanantion of important concepts and the derivation of the relevant equations is well constructed. Unfortunately the book is also quite expensive but has provided me with a useful reference in my current research as well as offering interesting examples of various analytical techniques used in fluid dynamics research.<br />An excellent research and reference text.	2003-08-04
US	52486517	R2HZ1WW0N5EW1J	0856280526	316864779	Heart of the Sixth Army	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A great book, worth reading in German if you are bilingual	In a sometimes deeply moving novel Heinz Konsalik brings forth the horrors experienced by the German army in Stalingrad. I read this book many years ago in German and was very impressed by it. It deals mostly with a group of people, two German doctors, a couple of German soldiers, a Russian doctor and her lover as well as a few fascinating people throughout. The novel manages to capture the feeling of both groups of combatants at the time, the strong feeling of protection for mother Russia by the Russians and the suffering and homesickness of the German soldiers. Little is made of the typical Nazi \\"Endsieg\\" or of racial superiority. The typical German soldier is simply getting by and surviving although occasionally an officer dreams of great conquests. Mostly the book dramatically oversees the life of Dr Koerner and Dr Porter, two German doctors operating in a cellar in the vicinity of the \\"tennis racquet\\", the notorious city block constantly changing hands between the Russians and the Germans with horrific casualties the result. The cellar is simply overwhelmed with casualties and the doctors make do as best they can with few medical supplies or supplies which pile up in mountains but are not delivered due to beaurocratic idiocy. Somehow they survive with typical black humour of the MASH variety such as when one officer mentions some comment which makes little sense and the doctors answer by suggesting he take a \\"lead cure\\" easily available at any local city block, similarly when referring to the enormous number of dead, one of the doctors mentions that there is maybe enough room for the next corpse in Grave crater number 5 corpse level 10. <br />It is the friendship formed between a German soldier \\"Knoesel\\" and a Russian officer \\"Kaljonin\\" which is simply remarkable a pure gem in the suffering surrounding the two men. Knoesel hearing the rappings of the Russian when trapped under tons of rubble, digs him out and is surprised that he is Russian, Kaljonin instead leaps into his arms for his rescue and both become deep friends. The death of Kaljonin near the end is tragic as he celebrates the end of the battle while dressed in German uniform (in order to seek his love unnoticed by the Germans) and runs towards his comrades only to be shot down as an enemy. One of the very best of books without many of the prejudices evident in Konsalik's other main war story \\"Doctor of Stalingrad\\". Konsalik's portrayal of bothy Russians and Germans is impressive and he doesn't shirk from showing men's weaknesses or their strengths.<br />A great book and worth reading in German if you are bilingual.	2003-07-29
US	52486517	R3I4D9IBLGCTZ8	0521531322	753390562	Goethe contra Newton: Polemics and the Project for a New Science of Color	Books	4	24	24	N	N	A superbly argued thesis.	This is a book with an excellent analysis of the reasons behind Goethe's attempt to discredit Newton's Opticks, specifically his work on the generation of colour in the spectrum obtained by the refraction of a &quot;ray&quot; of light (through a prism) emitted through a small pinhole. It must be remembered that Dennis Sepper is a philosopher rather than a physicist which means that the actual analysis of Goethe's work on 'Colour Theory' is not so deeply studied, although he does say just enough to give the impression all is not well with the standard Newtonian view and that Goethe's observations, especially the fact that the spectrum obtained by the above technqiue is a product of two spectra obtained at the edges between a dark and lighter surface e.g. a card with half black and half white colouring, remain valid today. The spectrum then only ever appears at the boundary between the two and only certain colours of the spectrum, reversing the position of black and white shows some more spectral colurs and the meeting of the two produces the green seen in standard spectra.<br />Sepper separates the book into sections with the first an introduction explicating both Goethe's and Newton's ideas followed by the second section on Goethe's first work on colour: &quot;The Beitraege&quot; and its differences to the later &quot;Farbenlehre&quot; and the reason for these differences. The third section discusses the inherent problems within Newton's views  and his experimentun crucis. The remaining chapters discuss how Goethe was right and where he was wrong as well as his very sophisticated ideas on the philosophy of science which makes him one of the earliest student's of the discipline; something which was not fully investigated until the 20th Century.<br />Its a superbly argued book and Sepper never at any point verges too much in either direction. Both weaknesses and strengths are highlighted, in both instances, whether Goethe or Newton. Sepper makes the point that there is still much to colour science, even as it stands today, that needs to be more fully explored. Even with the tremendously successful wave theory which explains most of the phenomena of light and colour. I say most given that quantum theory was needed for some cases and who knows what still remains to be discovered. maybe even some of the observations of Goethe may still need to be explained.<br />I would say that of all the books written on the subject of the so-called non-scientific science of Goethe, this is by far the best. Having read both critiques of Goethe by scientists and other books by proponents of Goethe this one is very clear and gets to the bottom of often vague statements made by others. Only Bortoft's book on &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot; does the same kind of justice.is still much to colour science, even as it stands today, that needs to be more fully explored. Even with the tremendously successful wave theory which explains most of the phenomena of light and colour. I say most given that quantum theory was needed for some cases and who knows what still remains to be discovered. maybe even some of the observations of Goethe may still need to be explained.<br />I would say that of all the books written on the subject of the so-called non-scientific science of Goethe, this is by far the best. Having read both critiques of Goethe by scientists and other books by proponents of Goethe this one is very clear and gets to the bottom of often vague statements made by others. Only Bortoft's book on &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot; does the same kind of justice.	2003-03-31
US	52486517	R26L63RE9CHJKS	0898713285	273204291	Templates for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods (Miscellaneous Titles in Applied Mathematics Series No 43)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Definitely worth it.	An excellent, concise book for the iterative solution of linear systems by a entire plethora of current researchers in the field. It not only quickly introduces the various iterative methods, stationary and non-stationary, e.g. Jacobi, SOR, Gauss-Seidel, Conjugate Gradient etc, but briefly analyses them in terms of current research whether unpreconditioned or preconditioned. In addition it considers other more specialised techniques involving domain decomposition and fast solvers. All round excellent although the book is available for free from the website. Definitely worth it.	2003-03-28
US	52486517	R27YMM5BRZKGYM	3211836926	922286539	Drop-Surface Interactions	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A book for a researcher in the field or a PhD student.	This is a book of papers prepared for publications after a workshop on drop-surface interactions, whether a cold drop on a hot surface or a water drop onto a layer of water; this book studies the various phenomena that can occur when a drop of a given fluid impacts either a solid or liquid material.<br />It is written by experts in the field including Andrea Prosperetti, Martin Rein, Martin Lesser, Hasan Oguz and S.T. Thoroddsen. All have studied various phenomena of drop interactions: Prosperetti-sound emission on drop impact with liquids, Rein-general drop impact phenomena, Lesser-compressible impact, Oguz-numerical algorithms to solve the Navier-Stokes equations and Thoroddsen-further studies of layer impact. Some papers are in great detail such as Lesser's which is the longest of those involved and others are short notes on new studies.<br />My interest lies in the numerical approaches for the solutions of the fluid dynamical equations of drop impact. In this regard the later papers especially those of Prosperetti and Oguz, especially, deal with new material clearing up much of the confusion in the plethora of numerical techniques available nowadays.<br />Note that this book is not a text and is not written in this way, do not expect any such format since all are papers. In other words if you want a general introduction then a couple of papers will concern you but most are very deep analyses of the various phenomena involved, the full research of which is voluminous to say the least. My own PhD review covers most of these areas and itself feels like a book.<br />The weakest area is still the numerical approaches which because of the various physical scales involve and the presence opf strong discontinuities provides a very challenging mathematical problem indeed, a good deal of which has not been satisfactorily resolved.<br />A book worth getting for a researcher in the field or a PhD student.	2003-03-08
US	52486517	R2MD4F4V2NLXFA	031227078X	230795002	My Quest for the Yeti: Confronting the Himalayas' Deepest Mystery	Books	3	12	13	N	N	The Yeti, a bear ?	Messner, probably the greatest climber in history (e.g. climbing Everest solo without Oxygen) tells the story of his search for an explanation governing the so-called Yeti or Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas. It all started with his attempt to retread the steps of the ancient cultural treks of the Tibetan people. On the way he meets, in a moonlit forest, a dark form with great nightvision and the ability to move very quietly and with great speed through the undergrowth. Messner's description of his encounter is simply superb, so gripping and personal it must be real. One is left in no doubt at all that he has met a creature of unknown origin who moves in an upright position much like a man and makes unusual whistling sounds.<br />Messner, so gripped by his phenomenal encounter is driven to find out more of this enigmatic being, which he considers to be the mythical Yeti of Himalayan fame. It is the case that the first description of this meeting is the most important part of the book, it being a powerful experience beyond any other abstractions he undertakes in the remainder of the book. Over some ten years and much searching as well as research and the retelling of the experiences of Tibetans he meets, Messner comes to the conclusion that the Yeti and the Chemo are the same beast, an unusual and rare kind of Tibetan bear. Although most of the book is taken up with descriptions from history of Yeti encounters, and the denial of the possibility that the Yeti is anthropoid in nature, he fails to completely convince in his definitive statement that all of the mythical creatures of Tibetan legend used to describe such incidents e.g. Yeti, Chemo, Dremo etc are the same being. I felt his conclusion to be a little hurried. Although there must be no doubt that his observation of the Chemo is a bear this does not mean that the Yeti, as such, is also a bear. It is doubtful that a bear can spend so much time walking upright as a Yeti has been known to do and that his footprints do not show claws which are the hallmarks of a bear. Nonetheless Messner convinces in the fact that at least some common encounters must be bear encounters with a very real, but rarely seen, kind of Tibetan bear.	2003-02-18
US	52486517	RXDMXKW5GCO2W	0940262533	821351084	Mystery of Physical Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A valuable critique of mechanistic theories of nature.	E. L. Grant Watson has written some fascinating books. I had read his earlier book \\"Descent of Spirit\\" which was wonderfully well written with fluid poetical style and possessed both intimate personal experiences of the author in the wilds of northern Australia amongst the Aborigines but also had some very interesting facts regarding some symbiotic relationships between plants and animals and animals and animals. Assuming the current book to be an elaboration of his ideas in this regard I eagerly awaited its arrival. Unfortunately there was considerably less material than anticipated and far too many `flights of fancy' with little to back them up. There were some attempts at a fuller description in terms of the more solid ideas of Goethe (such as the use of the process of exact imaginative participation, unfortunately translated as exact imaginative fantasy, certainly not what Goethe had in mind) although one always felt the author did either not really understand these ideas or was not fully convinced of them and so remained in a kind of nebulous state surrounded by the ideas of other men in a hodge-podge conceptual jungle. There is of course no conclusions on offer or anything to get hold of BUT in his examples of the intricacies of the natural world, particularly the astonishing (to say the least) aspects involved in the `cooperation' between organisms, Grant-Watson brings forth a very important point in regards to the validity of a completely mechanistic evolutionary theory such as that of Neo-Darwinism. As such, this book is not to be dismissed and the salient points made as well as the writings of others, where mentioned, provide a valuable addition to the evaluation of a purely mechanistic theory of evolution.	2003-02-12
US	52486517	R1GEGUURF8SEH1	039914255X	550174718	Eat Right 4 Your Type: The Individualized Diet Solution to Staying Healthy, Living Longer & Achieving Your Ideal Weight	Books	3	9	14	N	N	The jury is still out in my case.	I became interested in this book after my sister pointed it out to me. Although the reasons behind the absorption of foods due to the reaction produced by the various bood types is listed as being due to the lectins in the foods themselves seems reasonable, I have not carried out any research to check this out. To make sure, you would have to make a comprehensive research effort in the medical literature rather than relying on naturopathic research. If these results are based on sound biochemistry then I would have no trouble believing them.<br />Instead I chose to try out the type A diet recommended for me. Since none of these foods are in fact deleterious I thought there would be no problem. I have been following the diet now for about a week and have certainly not noticed any weight loss. However, like one of the reviewers I noticed it reduced gas, improved digestion and got rid of previously eaten fatty foods. Apart from the recommendations, I noticed before I knew of the diet, I had problems digesting dairy products such as milk and especially cheese. Similarly, red meat would often make me lethargic. In a matter of a few days I did feel more energetic but other problems arose such as neck discomfort. This may be due to the release of toxins as noted in the book or else due to some nutrient not in the diet. I propose to try the diet for 2 weeks to see if it makes any difference in weight loss, energy gain or other improvements.<BR> <BR>As regards the exercise schedule for type A's this appears a little confusing, although I agree with his note on the tension level of my type his insistence on only doing low level exercise doesn't work for me. I enjoy high intensity exercise such as playing soccer which requires great energy at all times. Similarly, I have never felt better than when I was very fit from training with a club. I tend to think this stress/tension arises more from the mind than the body.<br />As regards the actual book itself it is very well written, greatly simplified for the average reader no matter his/her education. This has certain advantages and some drawbacks. It makes the program easy to follow but at the same time gives the impression of talking to simpletons. The diets and the list of foods recommended for each blood group are very easy to follow and the tables listing the amounts of food to use are also easy to read and follow. The whole set up makes it considerably easier to use than standard diet charts which confuse you with information such as calories which noone can relate to. <br />The jury is still out in my case. Fascinating nonetheless.	2003-01-17
US	52486517	R2CJQ83XULGTP5	0140094296	458351721	The Songlines	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A very human book.	This book by Bruce Chatwin is a rare pleasure, written by a man truly interested in all the peoples of the world including their culture, language, arts and metaphysics. This time Chatwin went to Australia to attempt to understand the very complex system of Aboriginal religious structures called songlines. As far as I can see from this book songlines are the connections in song of one part of the country to another part, each practised by the people who live there with neighbours sharing the &quot;song&quot;. Not only does this define their religion but it in fact recreates their land as well, a kind of pure ideality in the philosophcal sense. <br />The first parts of this book concentrate on Chatwin's experiences with the people of outback Australia be they Aboriginal or white. He seems to find truly remarkable people, each unique and even wild in their own way. Typical of Australia, it is full of people from all the world, such as his friend Arkady of Russian extraction. Chatwin has a fascinating background with his experiences of other cultures often allowing him access to other more conservative people who are suspicious of the outsider. Using this technique he breaks down their resistence and writes with compassion and depth of his experiences. Unfortunately two aspects come to light which I believe are not advantageous to the reading of the book. The first is his tendency to both promote and justify the practise of travelling or the nomadic lifestyle which he himself practises. The second is the habit of filling out the rest of the book with too many quotations from others rather than making use of his experiences with their beauty and uniqueness due to the meeting of people as he travels and the sense of the land which formed the backbone and pure joy of the earlier parts of the book.<br />Nonetheless an exceptional book and a joy to read. A very human book.	2003-01-01
US	52486517	RTNOOPFI4E08C	0262730065	973302066	Language, Thought, and Reality: Selected Writings of Benjamin Lee Whorf	Books	4	39	39	N	N	This book is worth it.	This was the first time I had read a book about linguistics. For some time I had heard about Benjamin Lee Whorf and his seminal work on American Indian languages. This is his most famous book, a book of some of his papers during the 30's and 40's. <br />Unfortunately, given my lack of linguistic knowledge I did not understand much of the terminology throughout his more academic papers such as &quot;Some Verbal Categories of Hopi&quot; or &quot;Gestalt Technique of Stem Composition in Shawnee&quot;. Nevertheless there is plenty to read which discusses languages without too much academic terminology, although there is always some. His most interesting reads are the more general ones such as &quot;Language, Mind and Reality&quot; or &quot;Language and Logic&quot;.<br />Whorf makes the fascinating assertion, new for his time, that the language we speak, to some degree at least, forces us to orient our view of the world in a certain direction, for example the noun based structure of Indo-European languages forces it into considering the world as made up of interacting fixed parts whereas Hopi doesn't even have a tense system and doesn't consider the past or the future and sees events as either manifest or unmanifest. A completely different way of viewing the world and yet possessing its own internal logic and ability to express whatever is necessary. This is something Whorf stresses throughout and the so-called `primitive' languages of for example, the native Americans, is far from this western perspective. In fact Hopi stands out as being a language ideally suited to the new physics. <br />Whorf really lives in two worlds regarding his linguistic studies 1. the fascinating metaphysical world of language constructions throughout the world, i.e. the world view generated by these languages and 2. the strict linguistic approach to languages with its own very formal and structured method to analyse languages, see for example the formulaic approach for one-syllable English words in the paper entitled &quot;Linguistics as an Exact Science&quot;.<br />This book is worth it as no doubt the one by Sapir as well.	2002-12-10
US	52486517	R2MR1GWLGEURIL	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great book.	Steven Pressfield produces a book of the battle of Thermopylae which borders on the classic. It's very well written with plenty of depth throughout. I like the start where it describes the narrator as a Persian historian for Xerxes the great King and the interrogation of Xeones a squire of Dienekes a remarkable Spartan commander.<br />I think that Pressfield did a great deal of research to bring this historical battle to life, probably the greatest last stand in history, of a small Spartan 300 strong unit and their allies numbering in all about 4000 against the numerically superior Persian army, said to be up to 2 million men by Heroditus. This army was led by Leonidas the Spartan King. The Spartans chose their ground well by making use of the confined spaces in the pass of Thermopylae which did not allow the Persians to take advantage of their numerical superiority and surround their small opponent. Nonetheless a Greek traitor gave away another track along the pass so that the Persians could eventually come upon the Spartans from both sides, thereby ending the battle. <br />The book itself does not concern itself with the battle immediately but rather builds up the background story of the squire who is retelling his tale to the Persian historian after having suvived the battle, although by no means in a healthy state. What I really liked was the humanity of the characters as you find out about Xeones the loss of his parents in war and his love for Diomache his cousin a girl at the time some 3 three older. Xeones maintains his love and one feels that in fact she is the one he loves and would ever love throughout his life. We get to meet quite a few of the characters involved in the battle such as the King Leonidas, his `peers' Dionekes, and Knights Polynikes as well as others. The book removed some preconceptions with regard to the Spartans who I thought were known for being highly disciplined warriors but stolid and lacking humanity. This was totally changed by Pressfield's ability to make the Spartans very human indeed, the men posessed great fear and great courage as well as expressing love and wisdom. The martial arts taught in Sparta are tough yet human nonetheless and at the same time ensure the warrior is as egoless as he can be. The warrior undergoes his training from an early age in the `agoge' for 13 years, surely nothing compares to this except possibly the code of the Samurai. There are other similarities as well given the understanding of the essence of being a warrior through a kind of harmony reached by few, only the seeking after enlightenment of the great Japanese and Chinese masters truly exceeds this (eg sword, archery, Zen etc). Probably a typical example of this approach is the question asked of Xeones by Dionekes as to \\"What is the opposite of fear\\" and of course this answer is love. Strangely, so few people nowadays know what this really is, apart from the normal parental love given while they were children many people don't experience the kind of love which can totally encompass the world and completely defeat fear. Some see a little of this in the love of another but fail to reach high enough, this the expansion of love for all that is is what Dionekes is talking about, something rarely experienced in any person's life even for a moment.<br />This also brings to mind, probably the greatest war film I've yet seen which is \\"The Thin Red Line\\", there are moments in this film when such expressions of love exist such as when the American soldier is about to die surrounded by Japanese soldiers or when one of them asks questions about the world which never occurred to him other than in the extremity of war and the closeness of your own death which hangs mere breaths away. This, I believe, is why soem men seek war in order to bring out of themselves this possibility of truth and love, something which is not necessary for women who have other means to access this zone as Dionekes so aptly notes when he says that of the few men who have possessed the sort of courage required to reach this state his own wife and some women already possess this courage. Leonidas himself chose the 300 men because of this courage inherent in the wives of these men and his knowledge that it would be they who, through their displays of courage, would hold Sparta and Hellas together.<br />A great book.	2002-12-05
US	52486517	R1719NUMGMID9P	0231061943	952145202	A Zoologist Looks at Humankind	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A fascinating book by one of the greats.	In this little (174 pages) book Portmann gives the reader some of his scientific research rather than, as in &quot;Animal Forms and Patterns&quot;, a basically philosophical/biological viewpoint. Its a very beautifully designed book and as always Portmann writes with fluidity. He considers in the main the human being as a biological being in itself. He attempts to characterise the human being through his/her own characteristics with some comparison to other animals, especially the Great Apes. The book winds its way through the life stages of a person from the newborn, or secondarily altricial, baby through early childhood, childhood, adolescence and old age. In this text Portmann describes much of his own research and lets the reader know why he was regarded as one of the great biologists of the 20th century.<br />Portmann never `takes the being apart' so to speak in the sense of separating it into pieces which are distinctly separate from each other. In fact Whorf has shown how much language structure itself almost forces the scientist into this kind of thesis. Throughout this book (1st ed 1897) one learns how Portmann's research has been widely acknowledged and his `extrauterine spring' of the human infant is now considered dogma, a quick glance at Mayr's &quot;What Evolution Is&quot; (2001) confirms this. Portmann also is not one to compartmentalise his research, instead venturing into the realms of animal behaviour as well, in order to comprehend his subject, finally leading to the conclusion that behaviour and form are one.<br />A fascinating book by one of the greats, although it doesn't compare to the delight and sheer beauty of his &quot;Animal Forms and Patterns&quot;.	2002-11-29
US	52486517	R1D1H9OWU7MF4B	0465044263	772988533	What Evolution Is (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	15	34	N	N	In general a very good book which can be improved.	Although I must agree with most of the other reviewers in regard to Ernst Mayr's excellent introduction to evolution, and I won't restate their quite superb summaries, there are some weaknesses as well. First, to the good bits, there are many. <br />This book is an introduction although without any of the superior attitude so common amongst other popular science writers who already know everything and don't want to argue about something that is obvious. Mayr, generally, does not do this and points out weaknesses in the current evolutionary view. I mean: 1. areas where much work still needs to be done although not actually challenging the evolutionary paradigm and 2. those deserving of deeper study which may involve some changes in the current view.<br />In addition, Mayr goes through pretty well everything in the modern synthesis in an easy going style which is light and pleasant to read. Not too academic or too simplistic but just right for the interested layman. What Mayr notes at the beginning is relevant, he wants to write the book for those interested people, interested biologists and other scientists and those people who do not agree with evolution eg creationists. The well laid headings and boxes indicating important aspects are also an excellent idea.<br />All in all a very good book on evolution. Now for the not so good bits. Although Mayr states that everything will be explained for a layman this is not always followed and at times I knew what he was talking about because I had prior knowledge of the terms. Many examples exist eg page 12 he mentions heliocentricity, I don't know many non-scientists who know this term, page 13 he mentions biota without explanation etc etc. This also applies to some diagrams even though they are meticulously referenced much is not explained but rather just taken and inserted. These problems are all through the book and don't let up, even with the glossary at the back which certainly does not cover everything.<br />In addition Mayr at times has an arrogant stance in regard to evolution, stating it as a fact rather than a theory. This cannot be supported, it remains a theory just like those of other sciences even the physical sciences which are certainly more exacting and contain a great deal of experimental evidence. <br />So, in general a very good book which can be improved.	2002-11-19
US	52486517	R1S8PRNHERYVIN	0136638236	700412378	Philosophy of Natural Science	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Worth every page.	In this little book Carl Hempel lays out the basics of a philosophy of science, or in other words what a scientific theory must be in order to be science. This is an oversimplification in that not only does Hempel follow the well trodden track of such people as Karl Popper, but he goes much further in the way he looks at various `theories' proposed through the ages. He is not afraid to look at seemingly ludicrous theories such as vitalism but analyses them to locate what is and is not science within them. He never pre-judges anything but is willing ot give it a look no matter how strange or ridiculous. Hempel is a philosopher of science to be admired in his open views. Throughout the text he surprises the reader as he elucidates aspects of the philosophy of science which don't usually occur to a practising scientist or to many other philosophers who take much for granted. <br />Worth every page.	2002-11-12
US	52486517	R1JY34RXWOOCBB	0415278333	808688026	Evolution as a Religion: Strange Hopes and Stranger Fears (Routledge Classics) (Volume 25)	Books	4	44	52	N	N	She provides a clear headed view.	Mary Midgley, a philosopher, applies her extremely sharp mind to the idea that evolution, as it is expounded in the popular science press by eager biologists, can in some ways be interpreted as a religion. By religion we mean of course the standard ones such as Christianity, Buddhism, Islam etc. <br />Rather than actually laying out in a strictly defined way the characteristics which make up the religious view, something which is very difficult given the vast differences in the previously mentioned cases, she approaches the subject by analysing some of the typical `literature' in the popular science press on evolution which express their views in a highly dogmatic fashion: for example Richard Dawkins, Edward O. Wilson, Jacques Monod and so on. Gradually she lays bare the inherent faults in each of these texts by noting how not only that in most cases they state views which are not supported by strict science but in fact express metaphysical views which have the ring of science with all of its evidential weight. At times she shows that these opinions portray the same faults as those they wish to get rid of eg: the religious, vitalistic, animistic or metaphysical view. <br />Midgley has the ability to analyse very carefully what is stated and see things the general public could easily skip past in their enthusiasm. This book demolishes all of these pseudoscientific fantasies although its writing style is sometimes heavy going and is not really suited to the lay public. This book is, I believe written more for the interested scientist who has already read some of the foregoing literature and wishes to get a deep analysis of these things to fathom their relevance. This she does does ably although one feels that throughout she does not express a clear and direct point of this analysis but rather a series of essays on several subjects which have some sort of coherent structure. This is the only problem with this book and one feels that no real definite conclusion has beenreached.<br />Nevertheless, Midgley is worth reading for her truly impressive ability to seek out faults which often lie hidden in the material she analyses and are quite subtle and not at all obvious until she points them out. It's good someone has done this to provide a clear head in all the plethora of the popular science literature, which in general, is not up to any sort of serious study of the state of science as it is today. In this case there is no chance one can easily dismiss her analyses as the wafflings of creationists or vitalists.	2002-11-04
US	52486517	R32Q1RN2LSOWZL	0963989901	864209130	Laws of Form	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Definitely worth further investigation.	This book is not easy to review. Of all the many comments made by others whether derogatory or favourable one impression does come to mind: and that is, this work `appears' to have remarkable potential. Throughout, Spencer-Brown lets the reader know how powerful his ideas are. Even if this seems a little egotistical and exagerated, given the actual results achieved in the book, the basis of the idea i.e. the human habit of making a distinction so the &quot;world&quot; can come into &quot;existence&quot; seems to have the potential to truly describe not only human perception but maybe the physical and conscious world as it stands. Consciousness is a natural part of the construction since the observer is in fact created by the fact he can draw a distinction between himself and the world. Similarly, physical attributes are describable since interaction and causation are fundamental aspects of the universe which the non-numerical mathematics of distinction can create through the fact that making distinctions twice means not making one and so in fact representing, quite by the way, the idea of wholeness; something which was pointed out by Henri Bortoft in his superb &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot;. For a fuller development of Spencer-Brown's ideas see Edward R. Close and his &quot;Transcendental Physics&quot; where the concepts of dimension and time are constructed from such a mathematics.<br />Whether this is the be all and end all seems unlikely but its further development may outline some wonderful insights of the world. Definitely worth further investigation and not &quot;content free&quot; as some reviewers have said.<br />As for the writing style, that leaves something to be desired, Spencer-Brown writes in an obscure way and does not define all his terms along the way including his method of using certain terms to describe various aspects which have very different usages in related mathematics. It is understandable how, because of this obfuscation, his book has been panned by some. It must be remembered that even Bertrand Russell thought it worthwhile, certainly not an empty boast.s been panned by some. It must be remembered that even Bertrand Russell thought it worthwhile, certainly not an empty boast.	2002-10-24
US	52486517	RJSK67GH4460D	0312980329	829154026	The Ten Thousand: A Novel of Ancient Greece	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A tale of ancient Greece	As other reviewers and the comments at the beginning note, the tale has great potential but its even pace, without really capturing the reader, and some time monotony does not fully deal with the times. That said, the book does possess great authenticity in terms of characters: Xenophon who would later become a famous philosopher in the vein of Socrates (who was also a soldier), Artaxerxes, the Persian King and even a small part by Socrates himself. <br />The story is told by a freedman Themistogenes, a pseudonym for Xenophon, and is based on his epic \\"Anabasis\\" which tells of the Greek/Spartan army's route as mercenaries in the army of Cyrus who is attempting to wrest the throne from Artaxerxes with 100 000 men and the 10 000 Greeks who are feared soldiers. Cyrus hoodwinks the Greeks making them believe his interest lays not in the throne but the desire to put down a rebellion in the Empire. After agreeing to go along with an attack on the enormous 1 million strong Persian army the Greeks lead a powerful charge right at the Persians and route them, no wonder they were so feared. On the loss of their suplies, the death of Cyrus and most of the Greek officers in a trick, the army is broken up leaving the Greeks to fend for themselves against the huge Persian force. With impressive maneouvering, discipline and the use of slingers which can hit a target at 300 yards the Greeks under the new leadership of Xenophon decide to treck all the way through hostile Persian territory and Armenia suffering great hardship until finally making it to the Black Sea coast and Hellenic towns. <br />There is an underlying story of rather cold love of Themistogenes with a Persian royal lady but this never really flames into hot passion. One never gets the feeling of really suffering with these men but always feels outside of them looking on. It is helped by Homeric verse and ancient myths, Gods and legends but could have been much better.	2002-10-21
US	52486517	R1X5EGKKZJRE4F	0879930349	939204066	The science of life: The living system--a system for living	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A worthy book with many points made which can lead further.	This is a small book about 130 pages with large print. But don't let this put you off making you think it contains little of importance. Paul Weiss was a great American experimental biologist and in conjunction with Kurt Goldstein and some few others forms a group who through their observations, and the growing realisation that what standard theory taught was simply not adequate to explain living beings in terms of dead matter, not through speculative philosophy are forced to take into account the whole organism and its interacting parts. These parts are not parts as and of themselves but rather integral aspects of the whole, in fact that through which the whole becomes visible.<br />Weiss, in this book asaults the usual genetic determinism idea with a full frontal attack laying out good arguments against a one way gene to organism determinism. In fact he states there may be macro-determinism without necessarily having to have micro-determinism, ie the genes themselves do not necessarily have to act in a strict mechanical way but rather are allowed freedom of action which on the whole results in determinism. By this is meant the development of the organism as it grows from an embryo and this is shown plainly through observations by the fact that cells which are present in one particular configuration at the start of development do not necessarily have to be in the same place or acting in the same way after a little time. Weiss proposes interaction between the environment<->organism<->tissue<->cytoplasm->nucleas<->chromosome<->gene, a chain of intercation which goes both ways. <br />Weiss leaves systems open to some degree allowing plasticity which is still controlled in the large allowing the organism to adapt to its environment in a more fluid way. He notes, as have others, since his time that the science of life does not possess the same kinds of order as does say physics and thereby anticipates Robert Rosen who went much further in this direction. He then notes that in order to change this standard view which is confined to extreme ends of a spectrum great changes must be imposed in education reform. <br />A worthy book with many points made which can lead further.	2002-10-20
US	52486517	R20EE7JO9HDZOJ	0942299973	733290372	The Organism	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An essential read  for any practising scientist.	Kurt Goldstein was a highly experienced and respected neurologist in the earlier years of the twentieth century who after a lifetime of experince with patients of all walks of life, but especially brain damaged soldiers of World War I, came to the conclusion that the working of the human body is far more than just independently functioning mechanisms which make a kind of slapdash whole from the sum of these &quot;parts&quot;.<br />Goldstein explores many kinds of brain disorders he met along the way involving damage to the cortex and other parts of the brain often associated with structures which control certain aspects of behaviour such as reflex actions. Goldstein analyses in great detail and without prejudice each particular case describing the standard approaches on the subject and what he actually observes directly rather than just using the theory to define what is happening. Through this method he is able to obtain a far richer description of the neurological aspects of man than is usually given. He does not speculate arbitrarily but rather convinces by objective analysis. This is a hardnosed scientific approach although he still gives himself time to consider the wholeness of the body and its repair and &quot;coming to terms&quot; with its situation. In the last chapters he discusses approaches to the wholeness of the body and how important and relevant they are to a truer experience of the world as such. He nonetheless maintains a strong contact throughout with real patients never once releasing his touch to reality.<br />An essential read for any practising scientist who wants to understand.	2002-10-15
US	52486517	RVTBHD5TB24YN	037550432X	527698945	Route 66 A.D. :  On the Trail of Ancient Roman Tourists	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Recommended to one and all.	This is a simply enjoyable yarn relating the tourist experiences of Tony Perrottet and his girlfriend Lesley while following the well trodden route of Roman tourists in the 200 years of peace between about 5BC and 190 AD, where the European world enjoyed its longest period without war in history. Its a real plus for civilisation even if it is enforced.<br />Using the travel guides and informative experiences of the ancient travellers such as Pliny the Elder, Tacitus and Aristides, the author follows in their footsteps, first visiting Rome, their starting point, and then proceeding to Greece, Turkey and finally Egypt stopping along the way at sights such as Naples, Pompeii, Athens, Troy, and Alexandria. In a very witty way Perrottet explores the similarities and differences of the experiences from milennium to milenium. <br />Amazingly he takes along with him his pregnant girlfriend who somehow drags herself from site to site without any major complaints, how she does it is a miracle in itself. But she does state: \\"No squalor, no terror\\" as a requirement, unfortunately this can't quite be satisfied in countries which are more third world than first. Some lines throughout are just wonderful, such as the meeting of two cleaning attendants who belong in a Siberian mental hospital. The book is full of these hilarious experiences, and not only in the modern era but ancient ones as well.<br />The book itself is a gem and combines both travel writing and history in a well put together guide for the perplexed of either era. One also gets a feeling that as the pregnancy wore on during the travelling and things became more difficult, both hormonally and physically, Perrottet became far more concerned for her safety and had less time to spend on the actual travel experiences. It seems that he wrote notes as he proceeded from place to place and by the end one can notice how his witty repartee is somewhat dulled by the impending birth of their child and the unlucky destruction oftheir apartment at home.<br />All in all worth every cent and recommended to one and all.	2002-10-15
US	52486517	R1NQ3A6D85V7EV	0958949492	678417215	Descent of spirit: Writings of E.L. Grant Watson	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful, wondrous.	Elliot Lovegood Grant Watson was one of those rare naturalists/philosophers who didn't lose their wonder when studying the natural world. In a series of short anecdotes and essays Watson brings out exactly this sense of wonder in the everyday organisms such as ants, wasps, beetles and people themselves. <br />He describes with loving detail and a real sense of the writer who knows how to write, given his talent for writing novels, the life of a butterfly in symbiotic communion with a particular species of ant. He shows how a man brought up in civilisation can become a natural part of the wild environment once he open his heart, not just his eyes. He tells of life in Fiji with the natives and their peculiar ways, the almost homecoming he experienced during his time with Australian Aborigines. This includes, the contraversial story, &quot;Out There&quot;, about the harsh and very real story of a white ranch manager and his association with Aboriginal women. He talks of many places and times with a very wide knowledge not only in a literal sense but also as a man of experience of the natural, wild, places. His description of silence in a deep cavern is remarkable, or the presence of tree roots at a depth of 160 ft is astonising. <br />It is an eloquent book, even if it doesn't really, except on one or two occasions, really challange Darwinian evolutionary dogma as was intended, it is a book of great beauty and in addition to a very few, such as Adolf Portmann's &quot;Animal Forms and Patterns&quot; is not seen much anymore in serious biological circles. Most unfortunate as the hardline mechanistic paradigm holds on tenaciously.<br />Wonderful, wondrous.	2002-09-19
US	52486517	R7WL2XS18OR16	0451627768	796780795	The Origin of Species (Mentor)	Books	3	18	25	N	N	An esential read for any scientist.	Darwin's &quot;Origin of Species&quot; is in fact an abstract of a 20 volume thesis containing the evidence gathered over many years which support the concept of evolution by natural selection. This way of describing the evolution of organisms on earth has by now become the standard and, in fact, one hardly ever thinks of evolution without automatically connecting it with Darwin's ideas. <br />At first, upon commencing reading this small book, I continued to ask `where is the evidence for that' but on realising that he had gathered a large volume of data to support this theory I simply continued to read on. Its not either an easy read or that complicated. Darwin looks at evolution in a very comprehensive way: first, linking the main idea with the variation of animals under domestication, something he himself had extensively studied in the case of pidgeons; second, associating this with variation under nature and the struggle for existence; he then goes on to describe in detail natural selection and the laws of variation. He follows this like any good scientist by an analysis of what may be the theory's weaknesses, such as the scarcity in the geological record and the lack of organisms in a state of gradation. He then applies the ideas to instinct, hybridism and then discusses in great depth the imperfections of the geological record. He also considers how geographical distribution can alter the results of evolution  and how the embryos of various animals have a resemblance to that of other animals and how they also appear to repeat previous evolutionary steps as they mature.<br />Its too bad the 20 volume set was never published, even the incomplete version would have been better than only the abstract. Nonetheless it is well discussed and written as a comprehensive summary of the main thesis. At times the style can be repetitive and even dull but this is compensated for by fascinating little excerpts which are present throughout. This was, remarkably enough, my first reading of &quot;The Origin of Species&quot; and I do believe that every practicing scientist should read it as part of their education rather than accepting its tenets without question as is the wont. However rather than being a description of the true origin of species, it actually takes a change which occurs (by whatever means) and then describes the process the species undergoes from then on. Darwin never actually said anything about how new variations are formed, this was left for others to consider and eventually led to the modern Darwinian thesis including the idea of mutation caused by radiation, viruses or chemical agents. Much has also come to light over the last century such as the symbiosis of organisms producing the merger of cell and mitochondria seen in every cell today and similarly the recent evidence of gene swapping going on between bacteria and now also larger organisms, see &quot;Lamarck's Signature&quot; by Ted Steele. Since Darwin did also not explain form but rather the possibility of how form came about Brian Goodwin's Form and Transformation is a good place to start.<br />It must also be remembered that in his time the thesis was new even if many others were working on similar ideas Darwin was the first, in conjunction with Wallace, to expand on natural selection and obtain strong evidence for it. An essential read for any scientist.	2002-09-13
US	52486517	R211ZCVU8CKO9X	0801859700	349866083	Reflections on a Theory of Organisms	Books	4	9	9	N	N	It has much potential and can lead further.	A fascinating book by Walter Elsasser a physicist but having to do with biology. The book is somewhat confusing at times though. Elsasser gives the appearance of constructing some sort of theory which might lead to a theoretical biology, based on holism rather than the currently used metaphysic: reductionism, but never quite makes it. You always get the sense its just not complete and not thought out fully. He does take certain solid viewpoints: (1) a theoretical biology must obey the physical laws of quantum mechanics and (2) it must eschew vitalism, which Elsasser says is a theory which requires new and non-redicible laws for macroscopic biological organisms which are unique to organisms. In other words a separate set of laws just for organisms. And yet as one reads through his book one gets the feeling that there is more to it than that. At first he says that normal physical laws must be obeyed and then he expands his views to indicate that maybe there is something very special about organisms and that the mechanical view, which of course led to such laws in the first place, is just akind of short-sighted projection of reality to a mechanistic universe. If mechanism is just that, a small biased view of what happens rather than reality itself then these laws must also be simply an aspect of the full understanding. One then suspects that organisms do have laws unto themselves although they still obey quantum mechanics except the fuller set of principles of which quantum mechanics is just a part.<br />He attacks reductionism quite successfully and shows how a great deal more is possible in biology. Luckily as you proceed through the book it gets more and more interesting although never at any time do you feel that his principles he sets up in the earlier part of the book mesh with the later material. Perhaps a second reading will clear this up. It has much potential and can lead further especially in the hands of someone like Robert Rosen in his &quot;Life Itself&quot;.	2002-09-06
US	52486517	R3HQ8NHCEVBTFQ	8432230669	781143440	Monsenor Quijote	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Just buy it and love it.	Simply delightful, heartwarming, these are the words that come to mind when one reads \\"Monsignor Quixote\\". Fortunately or unfortunately for me I saw the film before I read the book, its hard to say which of these two apply. The film was also just wonderful, a very beautiful piece of work from a master storyteller. Just goes to show you don't need action or sexy romances to enjoy a wondrous story.<br />I do believe what was said on the cover: that it is Green's best and most effortless book to date. The story of Father Quixote, the descendent of Don Quixote, the knight of windmills fame and The Mayor, Sancho, in this case a Communist. It is the story of the travels of the aged Quixote who upon meeting a Bishop from Italy, on the sleepy roads of El Toboso (his parish) whom he helps, is promoted to Monsignor against the wishes of his own rather mean spirited bishop. They travel the countryside around La Mancha travelling all the way to Madrid in Rocinante, his aptly named car. Even if the whole story were told, I feel, it would not take away from the delight of it. I have seen the film 2 or 3 times and enjoyed it immensly every time. In that case it was an aging Alec Guiness as Quixote and Leo McKern as the mayor. Both of them choices of genius. They interplay each role to perfection, its as if the book is given life as it was meant to be.<br />What else is there to say. Just buy it and love it.	2002-09-02
US	52486517	R145UGOXF3U4RU	0071378200	508579940	Lessons from the Living Cell: The Limits of Reductionism	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A must read for every practising scientist.	Stephen Rothman has produced a book severely lacking amongst today's criticisms of the reductionist program, which, unfortunately now almost defines science itself.<br />In other words the understanding that all phenomena can be reduced to their constituent parts and thus constructed as a whole from those parts. This implies that given the parts, and only the parts, the whole can be assembled without any need for access to the true whole to check whether this makes sense. In biology this typically means deconstructing an organism into its recognisable parts and rebuilding it in this way. This leads inevitably to the local view now used in modern medicine and thus to various problems with the associated medicines produced in this way. The unwillingness of most scientists to even consider the possibility that other methods exist or that other methods can be constructed without this part-wholes strategy means any other medical treatments exist on the fringe without proper investigation.<br />What do I mean by the first statement ? I mean that many books exist which propagate a given idea or concept but few exist which investigate in a detailed way a given theory such as the vesicle theory and analyse its shortcomings and its evidence in a thorough way. About the only other text I know of which does this, to some degree at least, is the one by Michel Schiff on &quot;The Memory of Water&quot; where again a scientist battles against the deeply entrenched reductionist paradigm.<br />Rothman, in the first six chapters, discusses the concepts and the basics surrounding the reductionist metaphysics (it is a metaphysic since it is based on an obvious metaphysical belief: that parts are only constructed from below i.e the parts upwards) as well as what the main aim of biology is: to understand what life is. He includes a section on the various ways scientists implicitly rely on the reductionist idea, he has a wonderful discussion between two scientists who argue the basis of life from both a reductionist and a non-reductionist viewpoint. Most of the second half of the book is a very detailed analysis of the evidence for two separate theories in biology: the first, on the contraction of muscle tissue and, the second, on the transport and secretion of proteins within the cell. Rothman finds quite succinctly that life cannot be explained in the reductionistic sense, meaning that an anlysis of the parts cannot ever lead to the whole without the whole being an aspect of the study itself. In fact it is the whole which defines the parts and the parts cannot exist in and of themselves without the whole.<br />Rothman presents the first of these arguments (muscle contraction) very well and details the failure of the reductionistic paradigm, however this is done in hindsight since this has been confirmed; the second argument is still on-going and as such his arguments are no doubt contentious and will remain so for some time to come. Nonetheless he analyses the evidence in great detail and presents very strong arguments in favour of his own research which attempts to study this process as part of a whole. Rothman also accounts for the longevity of dsicredited theories through the artificial support of them through authority and an attempt to revamp defunct theories through slight of hand by forcing the contradictory evidence to support the old theory.<br />A book worth reading for both a criticism of the reductionist paradigm and the failure of the scientific community to go beyond typical human weaknesses such as egotism. A must read for every practising scientist.	2002-08-28
US	52486517	R3T3Y5YL0JSU8B	0140260811	585695706	Tom Jones Tie In (BBC)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A simply delightful story	Tom Jones is a wonderful story. I first heard about it by watching the BBC series, the cover of this edition has a picture from the series on it in fact. I really enjoyed it because of its subtle humour, no doubt considered most unpleasant in the aristocratic circles of the time. There is no doubt Tom jones is a comedy even if it was not seen as such by the public or critics of the time. Nowadays it is simply very enjoyable, full of the jests and witticisms of a very talented author. <BR>The story concerns Tom jones supposedly a foundling brought up almost as a son by the kind and generous Mr Allworthy a country gentleman. Tom's name was taken from his supposed mother although this remains in doubt. The story unfolds and gets really interesting as Tom grows up and earns a rather rascally reputation although his heart is good. The trials and tribulations continue due to his eventually falling in love with the beautiful Sophia, daughter of Squire Western, another country gentleman somewhat rough around the edges. <BR>This is the beginning and Fielding investigates and sometimes undermines the mores of the day. A simply delightful story told with mirth and tongue-in-cheek honesty. Although the story is long and at times Fielding writes too long a commentary in the whole it is very good indeed.	2002-08-26
US	52486517	R2FWRAKT41EWM5	014044615X	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superb, what a tale	Superb, what a tale, I was riveted by the fascinating story, so deep so full of the deepest human feelings. The language is sophisticated and typical of the 19th century when it was written. It is an intelligent book and far more enjoyable than Victor Hugo's masterpiece \\"Les Miserables\\". I read it quickly, it was nearly 900 pages but how fast paced it was and how well the characters were outlined. Dumas is a master storyteller and apart from the authentic retelling of the story in the TV series with Gerard Depardieu there are few stories which compare. It is remarkable by how well they stuck to the storyline in the TV series and how well the characters such as The Count of Monte Cristo, Danglers, Villefort, Mercedes etc were portrayed. <br />The story of a simple sailor who is soon to become a captain and his love for the beautiful Mercedes who he is just about to marry and the terrible circumstances which follow with the framing of the sailor by his supposed friends Fernand and Danglers and the hellish times to follow, he spent 14 years in a dungeon. The suffering which is portrayed so well, its almost as if Dumas himself had suffered so, somehow the book actually gives an inkling of what it would be like to be trapped within a tiny dingy, dark and stinking room for 14 years with no recreation no entertainment noone to talk to and simple the inability to leave the room, madness seems inevitable. The Abbe Faria saved him this, so much love to give to Edmond Dantes, he restores his life. His subsequent enriching and terrible revenge and the need for him to free himself of the suffering of others only to find it hidden in his own depths. It just doesn't get any better than this. Its not often I give 5 stars. Its a miracle, ... To say the least worth every cent and I would have paid four times as much for it.	2002-07-27
US	52486517	R28MH0Q2XJNB7D	0918024811	836672861	Across the Frontiers	Books	3	16	18	N	N	All in all a very satisfying book.	Werner Heisenberg is one of the most famous physicists in the history of the development of the quantum theory, his name is attached to the famous uncertainty principle dictating the inablity to both measure the position and the velocity of a particle with the same degree of accuracy at the same time, one accurate measurement leads to inaccuracy in the other. This book does not discuss Heisenberg's science but rather his own interest in discussing science as part of the whole human endeavour. It is a book of essays ranging from the philosophy of Wolfgang Pauli, the state of education in German universities, the use of abstraction in science and art, the truths inherent in science and religion to Einstein's lifetime work. Most of the essays are obtained from the transcripts of lectures or talks Heisenberg gave at various times during the 50's, 60's and 70's. His writing is straightforward without the subtlety of say Schroedinger in his &quot;What is Life&quot; but nonetheless quite deep at times. As you go through each essay you find that a small gem usually awaits, sometimes it is a simple statement and at other times its more hidden. His discussions are intelligent and thought provoking often allowing the reader to progress further in his own thinking and developing the ideas themselves. Heisenberg makes no rash statements much as his own scientific career has shown when he states something there is real meaning behind it. Heisenberg is willing to consider much that others would rather look past. Heisenberg does not dismiss religion or philosophy which many others do, thinking both to be unnecessary for science, rather he is willing to consider the ideas present in both and even as being other ways to reach truth. He possesses a good judge of character as his essay on Einstein suggests. All in all a very satisfying book.	2002-07-14
US	52486517	R2APICZOISG0X5	0521625580	662144214	Computational Gasdynamics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	there is no better book for both introduction and in detail	This book is a detailed account of the Eulerian numerical methods used for the solution of hyperbolic pde's such as the standard scalar conservation laws of fluid mechanics and gas dynamics. The book directly investigates gas dynamiocs rather than fluid dynamics although it has application there as well through the very successful Godunov method used for multiphase flow and compressible flow leading to shocks.<br />There are several parts: Part I: a lead in to gas dynamics, waves and scalar conservation laws as well as the Riemann problem; followed by Part II: Computational review covering the simplest aspects of numerical methods such as numerical discretisation and error, interpolation, piecewise functions; Part III: Gas Dynamics itself involving the CFL concdition, upwinding methods, artificial viscosity, linear and non-linear stability; Part IV: Methods of Gas dynamics, for scalar conservation laws and the Euler equations; Part V: advanced methods leading into flux avergaing, flux limited methods, flux corrected methods, hybrid methods and solution averaging.<br />The book deals mainly with numerical techniques for one dimension of space and time although there is a small chapter at the end for multidimensions. In this sense it is deficient, but it must be remembered that 1D methods must be mastered before considering the extension to 2 or 3 dimensions. This is a very detailed book leaving nothing out and explaining the techniques in great detail and in simple language without getting lost. Compare this with the far more difficult approach used by Leveque in his book: &quot;Finite Difference Methods for Differential Equations&quot;. If you wish to deeply understand the area then this is your text with over 600 pages making up the book its worth every cent although the rather high price of around US$60 is too high for most students. If you can afford it buy it, there is no better book for both an introduction and detail, most of the material is covered elsewherein class notes and research papers but the fact it is explained in a single book with good continuity is a godsend.	2002-07-10
US	52486517	R3CUNHR8D3HBU0	0140185232	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Good in depth portraits and journeys	Unfortunately I was somewhat distracted from the unique aspects of the book by the film version starring Bill Murray in one of his few (if at all) serious roles. Murray was excellent as Larry, the main character of the book and his life story attracted me very much being somewhat akin to Maugham's own story eg. he served in World War I as an ambulance driver on the front, as in the film, rather than as an airman, as in the book. I speak of the movie since it had a strong effect on me while reading the book, all of the characters of the book were influenced by the corresponding ones of the film. there were some differences such as I mentioned already and some others such as the character of Gray was played by a man quite different from the one in the film and Elliot's demise financially in the film is completely different from the book. However Isabel was very similar in character as was her friend Sophie. Larry's trips all over the world such as India were also different as well as his eventual gain of independence from his books as he burnt them in the film whereas he continued to rely on them in the book. I do believe that it is the film in fact which better portrays what would really have happened in such a journey from Larry's trip into the Himalayas and his meeting of the Guru who says &quot;I've been waiting for you&quot; which is very profound and his curing of the psychological illness of his friend Gray on his return and the obvious detachment of Larry from the world. I always felt that Larry's own development is better portrayed in the film rather than the book, even near the end of the story Larry is still somewhat dependent on his study/books whereas he has relinquished their hold on him in the film and becomes a completely independent soul, just living, in the film. <br />Like an earlier reviewer noted the book is written in a formal way probably a result of the time it was written in, early 20th Century, and not a result of the author's personality. Maugham's stay in Paris also influenced his style heavily capturing his feelings of living in Paris of the time. Isabel is well portrayed although her character has more depth in the book than the film. Elliot leads more of an empty life in both film and book. Altogether the book displays how people can live their lives and how very different those lives can eg. be the need for the security of money of Isabel, the social acceptance needed by Elliot, Gray's simple devotion to Isabel all fascinating and good in depth portraits.	2002-07-08
US	52486517	R2F8KZ45EZ7PBN	0140440720	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Excellent classic text in the Penguin range	I agree with another reader in that it is unfortunate we don't have similar biographies of the later Roman emperors such as Hadrian, Trajan and Marcus Aurelius; but here in the book of twelve Caesars Suetonius captures at least some of the various emperor's characters including Julius Caesar, Augustus, Claudius and Vespasian as well as others up to and including Domitian, the last of the twelve. Some histories are quite detailed such as that of Augustus whereas the relatively short reigns of Otho, Galba and Vitellius are quite short by comparison. The interesting thing about this book is the way Suetonius writes about the emperors in the &quot;warts and all&quot; style letting the public know every detail of their, at times, dubious habits and cruelties. No one gets away scott-free not even Augustus. The account is very honest with little held back no matter how crude. The emperors' greatest weaknesses and strengths are laid bare. It is written in a less formal style to that of say Cassius Dio or even of Tacitus and as such is enjoyable by itself. It also brings to mind how similar the Empire was to the lifestyle of today especially when it comes to public servants and government officialdom and responsibility. It is obvious Roman law is carried over to modern versions very easily forming the backbone of later centuries. There are telltale differences such as the incredible power emperor's wielded, especially as regards their ability to execute or defame anyone at will. The collapse of Roman values becomes glaringly obvious as the emperors themselves no longer provide an adequate example to the people. Former titles and honours which meant something in earlier times are progressivley demeaned by emperors such as Nero or Domitian at their worst and upheld by Titus or Vespasian. Yet another excellent classic text in the Penguin range.	2002-06-30
US	52486517	R1Q7CE2B2Q4S62	0820425850	1540901	The Metamorphosis of the Given: Toward an Ecology of Consciousness (Revisioning Philosophy)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Remarkable ideas but requiring better explanation	This is not a simple book, it is in fact the Schwarzkopf's PhD dissertation in philosophy. As such one would not expect it to be straighforward, and as forseen there is much which is not explained throughout the book, simple terms such as &quot;world&quot;, &quot;spirit&quot;, &quot;I&quot; etc take on new meanings, if not, then they are considered in new contexts for which the unprepared reader is not ready. A reasonably deep understanding of the British empiricists is also required before attempting this book, the very brief summaries of the achievements of Locke, Hume etc are not adequate unless you already have at least a brief understanding. At times there are confusions and ambiguity.<br />To the main contribution, this entails an attempt at understanding the world through the fascinating concepts of given and not given, given being those things which are given to consciousness without any extra effort by a person, not given includes, especially, the focusing of attention and awareness to the moment. Note that the actual potential for the use of the attentive faculty is given, its actual use is not. Schwarzkopf tries to resolve much of the dualism present in most people thinking by using this complementary approach to realise the already present unified world which is broken up by the mind. It is a wonderful idea following much of Rudolf Steiner's and Georg Kuehlewind's work as a starting point. It is in many ways enlightening but is also caught up in the afforementioned ambiguity inherent in the use of every day language. This stops the average reader from really understanding what is being said. Contrast this with &quot;The Logos Structure of the World&quot; (Kuehlewind) which is written in more obtuse language but nonetheless captures the essence on a second or third reading. I did not find this to be the case here. Remarkable ideas but requiring better explanation.	2002-06-19
US	52486517	R3R17UBTS5NLLU	0860918963	760001341	Farewell to Reason	Books	4	24	28	N	N	An energetic read.	Once again Paul Feyerabend has produced an energetic commentary on the modern philosophical constructs of the philosophy of science, especially those of Popper. In this, his second book, he concentrates on the main on answering negative comments on his earlier book &quot;Against Method&quot; by various philsophers of science such as Popper and Putnam. Although this seems to occupy his attentions there are chapters on various aspects such as Xenophanes, Greek Gods, a fascinating chapter on Aristotle's theory of the continuum, the role of theories in science, relativism and a very interesting and rare discussion of Mach's theory of research. <br />As usual his groundwork is thorough, although not as detailed as that in &quot;Against Method&quot;, and full of interesting asides which both support the argument and fascinate the reader. His energy is infectious although some of his comments are quite abrasive especially those concerning Popper. It compares well to the first book and is far better than his last &quot;Conquest of Abundance&quot; which seemed tired by comparison and lacking the zest of the earlier works such as this one and the first. To me, the two outstanding chapters are the ones on Mach and Aristotle which alone make the book worth buying. Feyerabend is a rare breed of philosopher in that he does not construct systematic theories but rather deconstructs existing ones and criticises them consistently at the same time giving credence to his ideas of relativism which are quite at odds with the usual interpretation of this idea. Feyerabend does not constrain himself overly in the sense of a solid theoretical basis prefering to remain loose and free to move. There are many advantages to this process although it does not introduce new ideas or concepts which by themselves could lead to further insights, this is possible without stagnation or a crystallisation of views which often occurs. He is also aware of his own propensity to intellectualise, something which he tries to supplement with a kind of living discourse which partly compensates.<BR>An energetic read.	2002-05-13
US	52486517	R1J7KXL9BTMN1H	0521427088	961314079	What Is Life?: with "Mind and Matter" and "Autobiographical Sketches"	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Something to really look forward to, enjoy.	This book is actually three essays in one book. The first is the essay of the title, the second a more metaphysical description called &quot;Mind and Matter&quot; and the last an excerpt of his own autobiography, notes rather than life in detail.<br />The first of these considers the possibility of science, as it stands at Schrodinger's time, answering the question of the title. Naturally such a question can now be asked since the universe has gradually become a mechanical one with life a great mystery since mechanical descriptions cannot describe life as we experience it. This was not always the case, certainly not before the 15th Century or so when the mystery had to do with the mechanical rather than the living aspects of the world.<br />So Schrodinger is able to ask this, the most fundamental of all the major questions in his and our time. Throughout the first essay he attempts to answer this not directly but rather through what science can tell us about the process that a living creature must undergo as part of its life cycle ie how is the being able to reproduce itself, where does this information reside etc. He discusses inheritance and the Darwinian explanation available in his time, which of course did not yet know of the DNA molecule. It appears at first that this is no more than a standard approach to these questions and lacks any new insights but this is a mistaken assumption and an in depth reading leaves no doubt that Schrodinger thinks science does not and cannot describe life truly using its current approach. I leave the potential reader to discover this for him/herself.<br />The second of these essays is far more metaphysical in character although schrodinger, a hardnosed scientist, does not waffle or procrastinate, he looks at things without sentimentality or any of the fantasies now current in the more &quot;out there&quot; new age mysticism. Schrodinger leaves no doubt that science again is not able to really discover what the mind is or how perception truly arises from any form of mechanism.<br />In the last of his essays he talks about his own life and a wonderful adventure it is. Schrodinger rather than being the epitome of the rational scientist  lacking in feeling, as the commonly held assumption tells, writes with great joy and style. <br />Something to really look forward to, enjoy.	2002-04-11
US	52486517	R3PYEQVV26UT93	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	4	5	8	N	N	An astonishing tale.	Vikram Seth has produced another remarkable feat, varying his writing style so dramatically you never think it was the same author who wrote \\"A Suitable Boy\\". In this his second major work he considers the life of an English violinist who is a member of a quartet playing chamber music. How Seth can witch from the life of people in India with all of its poverty, joy, humour and life's challenges, to the this altogether different story is completely unfathomable. \\"A Suitable Boy\\" always contained a hidden undertone of humour, a sort of subtle wit underlying the story whereas this story is sad, often tragic and sometimes pathetic telling how love is gained and lost, gained and lost again. Suffering of personal magnitude with all of its contradictory thoughts, illusions and fantasies is so well brought out its not hard to get caught in the saga.<br />The musician has lost his love who he met while studying under a hard taskmaster, his own troubles with his teacher alienate her until he just leaves. Ten years later he meets her again although she is now married, has a child and is progrssively going deaf. He still loves her as does she him, longing and pain of past memories as well as the suffering of not being with the one you love fill this book. They love and meet each other only to have to lie to their friends and husbands. Eventually she can't take the suffering and it comes to a sad end although his own personal journey is not yet complete until he open that door which allows suffering to be felt but not held on to.<br />In addition to the story itself which is told with real feeling, there is the music which permeates the story almost as much as the love between the two who are both musicians. At times Seth somehow captures the awesome beauty of the music the character plays with such poetry it is hard to believe he, the author is not a musician himself. Although the book is filled with great storytelling occasionally the character's life becomes pathetic. <br />Nonetheless an astonishing tale.	2002-04-11
US	52486517	R1AS2YO2Q2DFZ9	0313209618	291565466	Phenomenon of Life: Toward a Philosophical Biology	Books	3	24	24	N	N	superb at times, original at others.	Hans Jonas, previously a pupil of Heidegger, in the main departs from his mentor's work and reaches out in rather sophisticated and at times obscure writing, into the depths of the deeply thinking man's way of understanding \\"The Phenomenon of Life\\". Much like the other reviewer I agree with him concerning Jonas's deeply insightful essays on the philosophy of organism and mind, which he categorically states must be aspects of the one philosophy of life. Jonas's essays are in general quite brilliant with snippets of real insight that tower above the ordinary and yet it is written so that this occurs as part of the process of discovery which seems to be going on as he writes.<br />His first essay considers the development or rather alteration in the philosophy of being extending from ancient Greek times into the modern era: animism, and the remarkable instance of thinking of life as at one time the natural mode of being followed by the idea that death is the natural mode instead or that life is a preparation for it. Dualism is considered as the fundamental barrier underlying the comprehension of life although idealism leads to problems no less troubling than say materialism or mechanism.<br />In the second essay he looks at the fundamental aspects of philosophical Darwinism with its final application of mechanism to the biological realm which for so long eluded the mechanists. Descartes started the trend with his machine-like approach to animals. The third essay considers the meaning of metabolism using James Jeans's, God as a mathematician quote to initiate the discussion. He notes that a living being is one that is never the same from one moment to the next \\"perpetual self-renewal through process\\". As the other reviewer mentioned his fourth essay \\"To Move and to Feel: on the animal soul\\" is probably the most illuminating in the book. he considers what differs from animal to plant ie motility, perception and emotion. the ability to move using the evidence of perception leads to the idea of freedom, however how emotion is related to the above is less obvious althgough Jonas makes it so by simply stating that movement in pursuit or flight must necessarily lead to emotion because of its satisfaction or lack thereof. Plants possess immediacy in life between environment and the organism; animals are more separated than this being required to treat the environment as different from them to some degree at least.<br />Next he analyses the ideas of cybernetics and some differences between machines and organisms noting that machines act by feedback mechanisms whereas organism is \\"concerned in existing\\", this applies also to society where the cybernetic idea of information is empty. In the sixth essay he looks at perception through the senses sight, hearing and touch in the main and how and why  they vary in importance to man. He alludes as to why and how concepts such as space and time arise through the function of the senses themselves rather than being free construction of the mind. This leads directly into the seventh essay on the difference between man and animal ie through the concept of image making rather than language or symbols. Again as the previous reviewer notes the later essays lack in depth, once he enters the realm of theology Jonas tends to outline his own beliefs rather than analysing them in depth as his earlier essays, again the relationship between Gnosticism and modern thought bears fruit in contrast to the writing on Heidegger and theology.<br />All together a brilliant style with difficult writing. In contrast to the usual length of time needed to read a book this took considerably longer just to comprehend. Well worth getting, superb at times, original at others.	2002-02-24
US	52486517	R64AF7MASOHGK	0812210026	21687881	Causality and Chance in Modern Physics	Books	3	17	19	N	N	A good introduction to a deep thinker.	In this, David Bohm's first book looking at the conceptual foundations of modern physics he writes in a fast paced energetic way which, although quite analytical and interesting, lacks the warmth to be found in his later books.<br />His aim is to investigate the concepts of cause and chance and their applicability in physics. Bohm considers the ideas of causality in terms of relationshipos between &quot;things&quot; both as one-to-many and many-to-one types, then considers how contingency, chance and probablity are present in natural law. <br />Then, starting from the ideas of classical mechanistic physics and the changes which occurred over several hundred years in the way that the philosophy of mechanism both, took hold, 17th and 18th centuries, and significantly changed, 19th century he considers the longevity of this philosophy even after changes in it which would normally entertain a new outlook: classical particle mechanics-&gt;wave theory-&gt;fields. All of these new developments altered how the philosophy of mechanism was thought of but still maintained fundamental aspects such as: a quantitative law which could explain all natural phenomena. he goes on to explain the links between macroscopic and microscopic levels of law and how in each level a relatively independent state of affairs exists which regard to the laws, valid in each case. <br />Further, with the development of quantum theory at the start of the 20th century, ideas of probablity, indeterminacy and discreteness became the new concepts in physics, once again significantly changing the outlook yet still maintaining the most important tenet of mechanism: a be all and end all explanation of reality ie a final explanation which knows no alteration.<br />Bohm then goes on to demonstrate at least qualitatively what a different, alternative interpretation of quantum mechanics could look like, introducing his concepts of the sub-quantum level and the qualitative infinity of nature which is yet a unity.In the final chapter he looks at the way in which humans attempt to comprehend this qualitative infinity in terms of the abstraction of certain aspects from the whole and its consequences such as the multiplicity of these abstractions and their significance. He thereby avoids the seemingly obvious conclusion of Neumann regarding the non-existence of underlying laws or hidden variables. He considers question on the modes of being, becoming and how a &quot;thing&quot; can exist for long periods of time unchanged and yet in certain contexts always changing. He belittle's the Laplacian  mechanistic &quot;God&quot; and what objective reality really means.<br />It is Bohm's first attempt at these difficult issues (1957) long before chaos theory and its ability to lead to randomness even from strictly deterministic laws and the further developments he himself underwent in talks with Krishnamurti and the consequent construction of the idea of the holomovement. This book does not go as deep or is as fascinating as his later, richer ideas. But it does give an overview of what Bohm wished to change in physics and also society through his ideas such as dialogue. <br />A good introduction to a deep thinker.	2002-01-16
US	52486517	R3EFR4O60RDD32	078943511X	783631365	Story of Philosophy	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A superb introduction to philosophy.	Bryan Magee has compiled a wonderful book on both the history and the actual tenets of philosophy throughout, mostly, the western world. Starting from the earliest Greek philosophy right up to the present day although current philosophers are not considered given their, as yet, unknown claims to fame, to be decided by future generations.<br />It is a beautifully illustrated book with many paintings, photos and descriptions of the meaning of philosophical concepts spread throughout to aid clarity and ensure the ideas are firmly based on the real world. Apart from the main outstanding philosophers and the main trends in philosophy he also includes small excursions onto related thinkers/poets/writers of the era concerned, this certainly illuminates the ideas as well as giving them historical perspective, a subtle indication of the influence of the time (Zeitgeist) on the ideas and vice versa. <br />The major philosophers include Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus, Heraclitus, St Augustine, Descarte, Husserl, Hegel, Fichte, Popper, Hume, Berkely, Locke, Schopenhauer, Bergson, Sartre and so on, exploring the whole gamut. Included in terms of major trends is pragmatism, phenomenology, empiricism etc. All in all a superb book which is hard to put down even for people often bewildered by complex ideas and usually not willing to explore them seriously. Luckily Magee keeps the sections relatively short and prevents this fading of attention. This is yet another good aspect of the book. In addition he makes the reader fascinated and interested in further reading in depth of the central ideas. The book is also enclosed in a very hardwearing soft cover with overlapping ends and so keeps from falling apart, this is especially useful for infrequent readers or for multiple reading of the book by many, something I found out as I went through it. To call it a coffee table book does not do it justice since it is much more than this and does not look out of place on a philosophical bookshelf.<br />Even though the book covers mainly western philosophy it also takes an aside into Buddhist thought because of its deep philosophical foundations and influence all over the world eg on Schopenhauer. Taoism is not discussed and neither is Confucism but this is not a real drawback. <br />A superb introduction to philosophy.	2002-01-10
US	52486517	R3C9NMSPGWZTH4	0375408266	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good book.	Bernhard Schlink's ``The Reader'' is a fascinating book, at first, a kind of first-love story of an adolescent and an older woman and second the emotional trial of both the boy and the woman in a postwar Holocaust trial. I feel it is the second part of the book which really captivates, the first part, as the relationship between the boy and the woman develops in a stunted way with a lack of emotional attachment or closeness by the woman, something which the boy craves, does not capture me anywhere near as much. I could feel for the boy, his first crush if you like, something all boys go through, who hasn't suffered through a crush on a teacher for example. The writing is simple and to the point not too much beating around the bush and yet still eloquent, maybe because of it. In the second half of the book one finds out why the woman is so distant and why she moved away so suddenly with the boy emotionaly distraught. She was a concentration camp guard during the war and her inability to form close relationships are part of her, possible self-hatred/guilt, and fear of any sort of vulnerability especially as regards her inability to read. Through the trial we find out much about the feelings of the boy and the aftermath of his own guilt and fear and the subsequent sending to her, in prison, of tapes made by the now adult boy while he read books to her. Its remarkable and hard to put down. <br />A good book.	2001-11-19
US	52486517	R2YE69HPDU9WHQ	0486417670	755011729	Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness	Books	4	31	37	N	N	Superb as always.	Bergson's works are always inspirational and the remarkable thing is that he doesn't assume anything he always explains what is needed (almost always) unlike the standard treatises on philosophy by other philosophers. It is never that much of an effort to read Bergson and as such it makes his works far more accessible than usual for a philosopher, probably one of the reasons he was all the rage in the early 20th Century, people can actually understand what he was talking about. What is the reason for this ? I think much of it has to do with his unwillingness to separate his insights into distinct pieces as is the norm in philosophy. His essays tend to flow along nicely without being stuck in difficult terminology which must be remembered as you progress, anything such as the word duration which has a special significance in Bergson work becomes part of the flow of the essay rather than being in any way special it is always reinforced through the dialogue. Another interesting aspect is his lack of references to others, possibly a result of the French way of Education which encourages self reliance and expression as much as possible.<br />In this work, one of his earliest (1887), Bergson introduces his concept of duration which is less of a concept than a real lived sense that is happening in your life right at this moment. But first he introduces the reader to the intensities of psychic states such as beauty, grace, joy, sorrow, pain etc and how a misinterpretation of real lived experience gives rise to a way of philosophy which separates real duration as it is experienced into space-like time, this is also evident in feelings which are modified through the space-like construction of experience. Although this first chapter fails to convince once you proceed onto the construction of the idea of duration you feel on much safer ground, one feels Bergson has seriously studied this phenomenon, not of course just in thought or conceptualisation but, in his own lived experience present at every moment. He goes on to explain the falseness of the spacialisation of time which inevitably leads to the paradoxes of Zeno in ancient days and  determinism with its lack of human freedom. He overcomes the usual arguments of determinism by simply just not defining freedom or its prior conditions since this would once again introduce determinism and spacialise duration.<br />Bergson's work is simply highly insightful of the human condition far more than any dry attempt at it through the usual approaches such as Descarte's or Kant's. He literally lives his work using his own experience to enliven it, I mean literally enliven it, Bergson's work is living in a sense. It is less an argument than a movement through your own feelings and intuitions which then allow you to understand what he is saying, it isn't difficult concepts you can't wrap yourself round. It does occasionally suffer from a lack of clarity wich is an advantage other philosophers have over him but a careful reading will help.<br />Superb as always.	2001-11-05
US	52486517	R2OF8RDFCM8U06	0835600181	922121450	Manifold and the One	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very good summary.	This is a book I've been trying to get for some time ever since Henri Bortoft's &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot; mentioned Agnes Arber's name in his superb book. It addresses the questions which perplex myself: The feeling of Oneness present at times in the subjective life which strangely appears totally objective and the very obvious barriers generated by the logical ways of thought. Arber divides the book up into sections including the convictions of both Oneness and the manifold, coincidence of contraries, finite and the infinite, emotion and reason. All of these issues have been studied by various people throughout the ages often by instituting a certain bent on top of them eg Augustine forcing them into the straightjacket of religion, she covers thinkers right from ancient times to the present: Heraclitus, Aristotle, Plato, Plotinus, Aquinas, Ibn al-Arabi, Nicolaus Cusanus, Giordano Bruno, Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer and so on. The book basically discusses each of these issues with the assistance of these thinkers and their particular views and occasionally her own views on the matter. I was looking for a fresh insight on the issue but it was not forthcoming but then maybe it wasn't meant to be such a book and it certainly represents the whole task of understanding the manifold and the One in the gamut of variations. A very good summary.	2001-11-04
US	52486517	R3ABGE2X8ORCZM	091461410X	327238709	Man and Mammals	Books	4	24	24	N	N	This book is worth every cent you pay.	Wolfgang Schad in his remarkable book &quot;Man and Mammals: Toward a Biology of Form&quot; has in a very comprehensive analysis brought forth an illuminating account of the generation, structure and reason for mammal forms seen in the world today with hints on prehistoric forms and the forms of other animals as well. Schad has taken the insights of Goethe, Steiner, Portmann and others to new heights. He has looked at the form of mammals and suggested a new idea relating the entire form of the animal to its three main processes: nerve-sense, metabolic-limb and rythmic systems. Here the nerve-sense system refers to the brain and the nervous system, metabolic to the digestive and the limbs, and rythmic to the heart and lungs. The idea originated through the insight that an animal's form must be a product of its entirety all of its structures must be related to all others ie an idea of wholeness.<br />From this simple three-fold idea Schad builds the form through the influence of these 3 systems, not strictly separate, but through an interaction of all 3 in the animal. The ungulates are thus most influenced by the metabolic-limb system, the rodents by the nerve-sense system and the carnivores by the rythmic system. He explains how structures such as horns and antlers form in the ungulates as well as dealing with quirky aspects such as the large canines of the musk deer and the reason for the spiraling of sheep horns and the oval/spherical shaping of deer antlers. He explains the colouring of each of these such as the spots of the carnivores eg jaguar, cheetar etc, the striping of the zebra and the overall colouration of the larger animals such as the bear and moose. Schad's argument is very convincing certainly since the idea based on evolution through natural seection fails to account for the various forms in a coherent way other than to talk about camoflouge and random mutations. Not to say these are not valid but the individual charcateristics are obviously far morethan just random mutations. Portmann first suggested the idea of animal self-expression in their form, that is expression of their type not individual self-expression such as that of a human being, Schad has provided a viable reason for this idea and a way of classifying the mammals in a way which makes sense in a form-sense rather than simply a method based on characteristic structures which appear haphazard and exist for no reason. Through this system he allocates places for the various mammals within their families which make sense by being based on the influence of the three-fold processes.<br />There is much that can still be done in this regard including a fuller account of the environment and the systems, a way of understanding the other animals such as the invertebrates possibly through another such idea, the understanding of evolution of animal ancestors using such ideas. This approach has much to support it, however it also has weaknesses. It is important as Schad says at times that we never loose sight of the animal itself and not get lost or too captivated by the idea itseld especially when it no longer applies in the new situation. I felt at times that Schad was himself doing this. Luckily his obvious belief in  Steinerian anthroposphy was not stressed too much and a good objective analysis was possible, this is not evident in the last chapter on man although the ideas there appear reasonable. Again any determined approach to a phenomenon such as the form of animals must proceed through a way where the animal &quot;tells&quot; you its secrets rather than being forced into a straight-jacket of previously formed ideas. Goethe himself stressed this throughout his scientific researches and today it must be stressed again. This is the objectivity science craves.<br />This book is worth every cent you pay, I'm looking forward to the new edition yet to be issued. This new edition is in progress. Excellent although doubts remain, something appears to be missing, food for further research.	2001-10-22
US	52486517	R3AX6GJABB02MF	3540658874	364967203	Dynamics of Droplets (Experimental Fluid Mechanics)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Worth getting but the price tag is somewhat high.	In the case of such reference books as the one reviewed here &quot;Dynamics of Droplets&quot;, the whole purpose of buying the books depends on the need for it ie a particular reason. In my case I was interested in the splashing impact of water droplets on hard and liquid surfaces. It must be kept in mind that reference books are general references and not intended for a specific purpose. As such, this book provides a rudimentary introduction to my area of interest. It also covers the whole range of droplet interactions not only experimental results but the whole study of droplets experimental, theoretical and computational. A very wide introduction, based at times on the research of the two authors and their research institute.<BR>Its good as a general introduction but don't expect too much in your area. Worth getting but the price tag is somewhat high.	2001-10-04
US	52486517	R2AUFZRNEUUC3N	0415149126	535254997	On Dialogue	Books	4	73	80	N	N	As usual a superb book.	Bohm has a certain style in his writing which makes him stand out from others who write on similar topics. One aspect is his willingness to suspend his own viewpoint, at least to some degree, by introducing his approach to communication on an intimate level. This does not mean the kind of intimacy between lovers but it is of the same kind. What does this mean ? It means that it is communication without the presence of walls/barriers which interfere with the ability of one person to give rise to the same meaning in the mind of the other. This is the essence of communication at its most basic. The 'normal' mode of cummunication which takes place between people nowadays is way short of this ideal. The social barriers and thought constructions which are firmly embedded in the mind of most induce various automatic or reflex reactions when questions or comments are made which are in some way outside of the &quot;allowed&quot; list. These reactions can vary from fear, the most common, to anger and eventually in extreme cases to violence. How do they arise ? Through purely reflex reactions generated from countless experiences which promote a protective response because of the &quot;existence&quot; of the self. I say existence in inverted commas because Bohm denies this has any reality. Bohm uses his dialogue mode of communication to let people face their thought reflexes and stay with them ie staying aware while their mind and body undergoes its automatic reactions. Only this allows the mind to go beyond these usually unconscious reactions and proceed into a place where creation can occur. This means the creations of new ideas rather than a fallback into the old ones. This form of communication is far from easy to undergo and reactions of fear would be common as would eventual anger and frustrations as the self attempts to dominate in some way by either trying to control the dialogue or hide from it. This is overcome by staying with the discomfort until it dissipates by itself.<br />Dialogue offers much more than the current ways of communication such as discussions or negotiations which never face the serious issues. Bohm stresses the pathless approach, ie one where no direct goal is provided and no leader selected. This has some similarity to tribal councils practised by native Americans for example.<br />In this book Bohm through examples and ideas develops this mode to something useful for all of society. Bohm always leaves room for ideas to be generated from his own beginnings. As usual a superb book.	2001-09-17
US	52486517	R34Y24V2FK9CJY	0806504218	272193209	The Creative Mind	Books	4	28	31	N	N	An example of intuitive writing.	As has been noted by others in previous reviews this book is about several issues: one a kind of autobiography of his life's work and as well a lesson in what philosophy is and should be in comparison to science. Bergson points out that science much as other fields such as literature, philosophy, art and so on rely on two ways of approaching reality one is the scientific systematic, mechanical way which is practiced by the majority of researchers and the intuitive way which is used occasionally to make headway. The first of these approaches clarifies succinctly what has been discovered in a systematic way which aims to make the phenomenon explicit as a whole, the second of these, the intuitive approach, is that which is required to make the initial leap, the creative surge needed to make sense of a phenomenon which no longer makes sense when old approaches are applied. As such, both of these approaches need to be practised side by side with scientists and artists both making use of them. Unfortunately the first of these, the standard methodical approach, is prone to be considered the only way of attack on a problem given the intellect which is a system to analyse and make use of the world's phenomena. This ensures a mechanical way of thought comes to the fore. Bergson stresses that this method is well and good where it applies, mostly after a discovery has been made, but in the stages where something is to be understood as a whole rather than as made of parts, intuition comes in providing the guiding light, a sort of vague feeling of rightness or truth which cannot be denied. From this pont it is developed using the first method, but the first method cannot succeed without this creative step.<br />It needs to be noted that the systematic approach is relatively easy to implement for a mind trained in it, as are most of today's researchers, and unfortunately it is difficult to escape the confining modes of thought which prevail once this method has gained a firm foothold of the mind. The creative approach is vague and fleeting seeming to glide past you as you attempt to grab hold. This is the wrong approach, it needs to be cultivated without a method otherwise it is a sham intuition and just another form of the first method. Strangely enough once such an intuition has overwhelmed the mind it convinces not by argument or proof but by a strong sense of rightness, &quot;this is true and that is all&quot;, it cannot be denied. Any attempt to deny this makes no sense as even those who argue against this possibility themselves suffer from these intuitions which they cannot explain either.<br />Bergson was a man who lived this intuitive mode more than most, especially through his experience of duration. He is qualified more than most in describing this way of &quot;thinking&quot;, actually sensing, and he brings it out in this fine book. Although not as illuminating as his &quot;Creative Evolution&quot; it is still a very well written book and he deserves his Nobel prize for literature. Compare this with for example &quot;Process and Reality&quot; by Whitehead which is so full of obscurity it stands as a prime example of how not to write. It is Whitehead's attempt to be clear which is his downfall in fact.<br />As always Bergson's books are themselves examples of intuitive writing if there is such a thing.	2001-09-13
US	52486517	RQZ9OWAOGGPGL	0425171574	616720930	The Wild Within: Adventures in Nature and Animal Teachings	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Delightful and sometimes questing	Paul Rezendes's book &quot;The Wild Within&quot; is a wonderful book, easy to read and sometimes as casual as a hot summer's day and at others intense and deep with illuminating experiences of the searcher for truth, no matter how contradictory this sounds. His life, that of a man trying to find a way to reality if you like when it was always there all the time just waiting to be noticed once the chattering mind has been silenced, is fascinating. His years as leader of a motorcycle gang and then his route to the opposite extreme that of a yoga and ashram founder show how much suffering someone must sometimes go through to reach that impossible peak where you are already standing. Rezendes's book takes turns wandering in different directions, often through a factual journey of animal tracks and behaviour patterns and then to his own experiences with them as he is tracking them and finally to his own very deeply personal experiences in trying to live life as a human being, in the end, must. It is remarkable how the intensity of the book varies throughout, the animal connections are really amazing, such as his direct communication with the Moose and the almost scary reply of the fox to his own infringements on its territory. If you're looking for a strictly tracking book, don't read this, if its more you want, maybe. Delightful and sometimes questing.	2001-08-25
US	52486517	R16OJKLDZIC856	0803251661	315563041	Journal of a Trapper	Books	3	17	23	N	N	An interesting book.	The trapper's journal by Osbourne Russell during the early to mid 18 hundreds came as a bit of a surprise. First the book is a factual account without any explication of the events more than is necessary. It is not told as an adventure story eg &quot;Last of the Mohicans&quot; but rather as a journal pure and simple of the travels through the Rockies, mainly Yellowstone, of this young trapper over 9 years in the pay and as a member of Jim Bridger's fur company, around 100 men. The trade was at its peak at this time. As is true of most journals it is full of abbreviations of words because of time constraints eg brot. for brought, staid for stayed etc. This gives the impression of crudity in the writing, or of a man not used to writing but rather writing in only a haphazard fashion. Every reader knows how easy it is to loose all the fine points of writing when it is not practised constantly. The journal is full of place names and directions of travel and a few maps indicating the progress of the trappers. There is some description of the scenery and the Indians of the area eg Blackfoot which are a constant threat, Shoshones (Snake), Bonnack and Crow. Occasionaly I was pleasantly surprised by paragraphs of eloquence and beauty mixed in with the simplistic writing which was the norm. Russell was capable of very good writing when he was inspired or wished to do so. This is also demonstrated by his letters to his sisters which are written with great style and few grammatical errors, completely unlike his journals. <br />There is much which comes to the fore in regard to the period eg the waste and destruction as the parties of trappers even in groups as small as 3 wonder the countryside and simply kill a Bison Cow for a meal and then discard it, or just take the tongue to eat. Incredible disregard for nature is shown at times. The trapper is in continual fear of Blackfoot war parties who harrass them, both white and Indian, constantly. In one instance an enormous group ofBlackfeet, thought to number up to 1000 or more by Russell, attempt to eradicate the entire group of Bridger's trappers, about 100. They decide not to due to an unfavourable (omen) display of Northern lights. Even in his day as the story nears the end of the 9 years Russell tells of the scarcity of Buffalo which were not wiped out in total until 1870 or so (80 million -&gt; 1000). Its almost as if it comes upon them suddenly, &quot;5 years ago thousands crossed the valleys of the Yellowstone, now its hard to find any&quot;. Russell even becomes a little conservationist in spirit when he states that maybe its time for the white man to leave this country because the wildlife has been so denuded.<br />An interesting book but with far too few passages describing the trapper's feeling along the way.	2001-08-13
US	52486517	R2XW3TZ82XH8RB	0521313317	260368002	The Mind and the Eye: A Study of the Biologist's Standpoint (Cambridge Science Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Deeply thought out analysis of modern science.	Agnes Arber the well known botanist of the 1st half of the 20th Century has written a solidly researched booklet on her thoughts of the biologist's viewpoint regarding science. The book is small but very true to her highly critical analysis of the current scientific approach to the study of the natural world. Here is one scientist not afraid to question standard dogma. To some degree, at least, her opinions have been influenced by reading Goethe and especially his botanical studies, even though she refers to him a few times he is not referenced, perhaps on purpose given the fact that his work was and still is thought of as that of an amateur or dilettant. Arber considers the world of both the physical sciences and the way this differs from the biological standpoint which, having had a very different history, is not as mechanically influenced as say physics.<br />Although the book starts somewhat slowy towards the end when Arber is voicing her deepest thoughts on the subject one can't wait for the philosophical gems which are just around the courner. In no way is this book a flight of fancy, it is rigorously thought out with copious references such as Hegel, Bosanquet, Plato, Heraclitus, Aristotle, Aquinas, Spinoza and numerous biological references not so well known. Not a book to be ignored as much of the curent popular science can be.<br />Deeply thought out analysis of modern science.	2001-08-08
US	52486517	R1V7C52LRSHJUY	0805045430	157968422	Grizzly Years: In Search of the American Wilderness	Books	4	21	23	N	N	There are few like him anymore.	My interest was piqued by Jack Turner's &quot;Abstract Wild&quot; which stands alone as the most intense and vital book written on the experience of wildness. From Turner's comments I ventured to buy a copy of Peacock's book &quot;Grizzly Years&quot; even after having read some of the negative comments I found in the reviews given. There is some truth to these comments but they are far outweiged by honesty and boldness of the experiences of Doug Peacock throughout his `Grizzly Years' which of course are not simply the years Peacock spent studying and living near Grizzlies but rather the years of his own transformation from out of the nightmare that was the Vietnam War. I don't think it is an accident that as one proceeds through the book, which is interspersed with Vietnam war experiences, these experiences no longer command the full attention of Peacock as his healing takes place. More and more he assumes the life of a person living in the moment and can pass by the old nightmares for the realness of his life now. No doubt writing this book itself was a part of his cleaning out process and the leaving behind of past lives because they are no longer  necessary. Rather than being excerpts to attract or hold the attention they are an integral part of the story, first the very real and immensly powerful experience of combat and the ever present horror of suffering which is always there confronting him, making his life moments which are full of life or death and nothing in between. Peacock came back no longer interested in anything except moment which involved life and death situations and the Grizzly offered just such an opportunity, being unpredictable, dangerous and fully capable of killing any human being, but choosing not to, the bears formed the backbone of his life for many years until gradually he found not only fear and danger and the vitality of life but also the beauty seemingly hidden in each moment no matter how perilous. Slowly  Peacock finds his way backto earth so to speak and yet greatly transformed and his meeting Lisa, his wife to be, helped in the process. <br />Peacock talks of bears as they truly are, far from the attention seeking, sensationalistic presentations of some so called nature programs which concentrate on the alienation of people from nature rather than allowing for the linkage that can take place as the human being realises he is part of the whole, that is, part not a piece of. Peacock's honesty and forthrightness is impressive, Terry Tempest Williams knows what she is talking about when she says the book does not lie. <br />Unlike some who attempt to make the animal into some sort of cute creature to be oggled at and petted Peacock never forgets the bears are other and yet not altogether that different, he gives them the freedom to be themselves not only by being as inconspicuous as he can but also in his own mind. <br />There are few like him anymore.	2001-08-04
US	52486517	RWSZUD7V8LSMK	034543630X	342504347	Simon's Family: A Novel of Mothers and Sons	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A novel of great depth and beauty.	A story of mothers and sons, as it says on the cover, and this is true, the Australian edition's title reads &quot;Simon and the Oaks&quot; which makes explicit the impact of the natural word on Simon, a half Jewish boy in Sweden growing up in a loving household with his mother Karin and father Eric. This book is remarkable for one outstanding reason and that is its sensitivity and beauty throughout. The book makes one think that here is a definition of &quot;literature&quot; that which makes this book different from merely &quot;fiction&quot;. Much like many Scandinavian novels myths are not far away and it can be seen that the old ways practised in Norway, Sweden and Denmark are still with us in the north where Christianisation was completed in the 11th Century some time after it had been completed in mainland Europe, and its influence was very strong. As such the attempt to eradicate old folk tales and the like was far more difficult, one still sees the old spring festival of &quot;Easter&quot; (pre-Roman, Germanic), having been adopted by the Christian church, practised today conveniently through the date of Christ's death and resurrection. In addition Scandinavia is far from the busy thoroughfare of Central Europe so old traditions and ways of life are still felt in modern times.<br />This story of Simon and his family, a title also appropriate since the story is as much about them as him, is a beautiful one and its rare nowadays to find novels of such emotional depth and sense of beauty expressed so well and so gently. This is not to say it does not note other painful things in life and so the novel becomes an honest portrayal of life in pre-war and post-war Sweden. Luckily Sweden escaped most of the ravages of the Holocaust because of its neutrality but that doesn't mean its people didn't suffer nonetheless. However, this novel is mainly concerned with the people of the story and their lives, their troubles, angst, problems and so on, the fear instilled by the Nazis is very real and ever present in the minds of Isak and Ruben, Isak's father and wealthy book merchant. The differences between the Jewish life of Ruben and Isak are not stressed so much as their friendship and eventual family bond with the Larsson family (Karin, Eric, Simon).<br />Even though the natural world forms a part of the story, as it often does in Scandinavian tales, this is not as deeply brought out as the interaction inside the families themselves and so the novel is very human and not infused with the other world of trees, plants and animals which can be found in say &quot;The Forest of Hours&quot;. <br />A novel of great depth and beauty.	2001-07-31
US	52486517	R3IKY4O8DEJ4F4	3895082090	397623101	Walden	Books	3	8	12	N	N	It stands by itself	I found myself, overall, agreeing with one of the reviewers when he stated specifically that &quot;Walden&quot; is not a book to be read purely for enjoyment, it is not a thrilling read or even a very deep one in general but then one must remember in which time we live and the style used by Thoreau is one of the mid 19th Century which was prone to the type of writing he uses. Anyone who has read other novels of the time or rather written in that period will find similar styles eg James Fenimoore Cooper, Charles Dickens etc. In addition this is not a novel but rather a retelling of experiences of one man in his own adventure as he would put it.<br />That is not to say that Thoreau does not illuminate or at times give remarkable insights especially when it came to some of the people he met who had fascinating ways of life eg the woodcutter. The book varies from downright mundane and tedious to being very insightful and beautiful. Its amazing how someone can do this as he writes, verging from one extreme to the other. But then it was written from journal notes as he lived his life in the woods over two years experience and during that time a person changes as he adapts to his new way of life. At first its very exciting and new, any new experience is always full of a kind of life shock whether it be painful or joyful, the thinking mind, the mind absorbed in everyday &quot;safe&quot; tasks which define the &quot;normal&quot; life are absent in this new environment which requires new creative energies to survive, after a while this way of life becomes the accepted one and starts to be drained of the vitality it possessed at the beginning as one is fully acclimatised to it and it becomes the norm, after this stage comes the usual safety associated with the walls created to keep life ordinary rather than really being alive. This is hard to do when living in the woods by yourself where you need constant awareness to survive unless its a little too close to civilisation whichprovides the safety net which Thoreau always had available to him. But still during the period where he was very much alive and aware, life is lived without need for too much unnecessary thought, and this is the place from where insights and great creativity burst forth. <br />If one wants to know what it is like to be really truly alive in the moment and you are afraid to try it yourself and would rather read about it then try the books &quot;Abstract Wild&quot; by Jack Turner or &quot;Grizzly Years&quot; by Peacock. Am I wrong to criticise Thoreau so much ?  Yes and no, eg Yes:see the comments by John Ralston Saul on exactly this aspect of Thoreau's writing, No: look at your own life or mine for example, in each case we do not escape this ordinary life we ourselves create. For the purely lived life expressed in poetry look at the poems by Basho, no clearer or more beautiful expression of life has yet been written. I say written not lived, lived can't be written down in full only a brief glimpse or shadow of it is possible even with Basho.<br />As regards what is said it often betrays Thoreau's astonishingly well read mind, quotes from the Baghvad Gita or other Hindu texts surprise because in Throeau's day very few people would ever have bothered to read the Indian works, the average American thought his own life and European works to be far superior. Thoreau often quotes Latin, often without reference, and the notes at the end of the book are very helpful. Thoreau's experience becomes the one Americans want to live at least without being in too much danger as he would have been in the true wild still available at that time in the lives of say the trappers or mountain men of the Rockies or any native American. As such it is an in between way of living wild.<br />So Thoreau's work is definitely worth reading even for only the historical value or the literature it represents. It stands by itself.	2001-07-30
US	52486517	R3CNRASP34D56M	0553110721	698766211	Dune: House Harkonnen	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good but far from great.	Much like the earlier prelude &quot;House Atreides&quot; written by the same two authors this book attempts to enlighten the reader about the previous history of the main characters in &quot;Dune&quot;, written by Frank Herbert in his original classic which, to say the least, is a masterpiece, probably the best science fiction ever written. Dune is totally gripping, in many ways it holds the reader, first by the very insightful chapter headings which portray the various protagonists such as the Bene Gesserit, Corrinos, Sardaukar etc etc in the light of their own making. I mean that each of them has deep layers hidden underneath with the imagination going wild as to the secrets which remain. Indeed, the aura surrounding the characters is remarkable, somehow Herbert created a feudal universe which meshed together so well that it a just fit together as a whole. This is not so evident in this, the second of the preludes. The chapter headings are nowhere near as deep or meaningful, the characters are not as well developed, seemingly one dimensional, the politics and psychology of Dune are mere whimperings comapred to the original, too much is revealed, too much is made explicit, when mystery is opened up something is lost. <br />Having said this, this book is nonetheless quite entertaining in its own right, the stories are manifold and come thick and fast, some intrigue is present but nowhere near enough, the Baron no longer appears as evil, but then there are other aspects which are enjoyable, much is explained, the reason for the choice of a son rather than a daughter for Jessica against the wishes and plans of the Reverend mothers etc.<br />Good but far from great.	2001-07-13
US	52486517	R2ALIQ0HMY6N1Y	0865474540	792349819	The Practice of the Wild	Books	4	7	8	N	N	what a life he led	In much the same way as other reviewers I found Gary Snyder's book &quot;Practice of the Wild&quot; a very enjoyable read, I was originally pointed to it through the amazing work of Jack Turner's &quot;The Abstract Wild&quot; where he refered to it. Although nowhere near as intense or so purely full of power as Turner's book it is fluid and poetic. One of the first things that strikes you is Snyder's astonishing grasp of just about anything, his knowledge of foreign languages is acute, the width of understanding boggles the mind. It must also be remembered that he spent some years in Japan studying as a Zen monk, this would of course have introduced him to Japanese and through it Chinese characters, poetry etc. Snyder seems a remarkable man, this book as well as illuminating the human condition and its need for true wildness, not in the ordinary sense of the term but as native peoples perceive it or rather live it, is a kind of autobiography, maybe I should say a telling of the story of Snyder himself. You become intimately connected to his life, which is really quite incredible, the sort of life where he could no longer say in old age that &quot;I never did what I wanted to&quot;, Snyder has really lived, a lumberjack, a monk, an anthropologist, poet etc etc. <br />The book is interspersed with scientific detail of the living world and then up comes a very poetic passage somehow interconnected without one feeling it is incoherent as he slips from poetic to hard science. What a life he has lived, what experience that simply cannot be ignored, &quot;The Practice of the Wild&quot; is written by someone who must be heard, whose message is human in every way, an ecologist, conservationist, logger, rancher. Too bad other people : politicians, law makers, company executives etc etc haven't lived like this, maybe their own similar experience could really change the world, maybe through this book they will decide to live at least in more than an abstract way when it comes to the natural world.	2001-07-08
US	52486517	R2W7OKYBZZCVRJ	0415173965	223601926	On Creativity	Books	5	65	66	N	N	He was a remarkable man.	Once again David Bohm, one of the most original of thinkers, has demonstrated his ability to make original and fascinating discoveries in regard to, let us say, life in general. This is a combination of physics, biology, philosophy etc etc or as it used to be called natural philosophy. Bohm was one of this century's last remaining natural philospohers in a time of specialisation, in some ways akin to Robert Rosen, Darcy Thomson or Einstein all of whom were willing to expand their frontiers beyond their areas of specialisation. What singles Bohm out is his deep investigation of all aspects of thought especially the study of thought itself, its origin and dissolution and is human life possible without it, in other words is thought all there is or does being human mean a great deal more and other ?<br />In this short text Bohm looks at creativity, what it is, what it means in human life, how it works and various other aspects. Bohm, like in his other works, shys away from any form of solid definition, this is done on purpose, rather than because of a lack of understanding, Bohm insists that any form of thought, concept, idea which becomes crystalised as the &quot;whole truth and nothing but the truth&quot; interferes with the natural flow of reality which is ever changing and never static, this includes ideas as well which are insights about this flow (expanded on earlier in eg &quot;Wholeness and the Implicate Order&quot;). In this book he considers something he calls artamovement or &quot;the art of fitting in the flow&quot;, here the word fit is in fact the meaning of art, in fact all forms of human endeavour are a form of art. This fitting in is the way people find out whether something is true or right in a context. <br />This, as usual, is highly original and especially true to itself, Bohm always writes what is true to itself and himself, he never, right until his dying day, failed to expound the truth whether he liked it or not. He epitomises the true seaker ofknowledge which today is often smothered by individual desires, political expediency, domination from others or downright egotism. He was a remarkable man.	2001-06-27
US	52486517	R9B462IST9MAU	0140268863	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	4	70	73	N	N	An excellent book.	As noted on earlier reviews these two, the first &quot;The Iliad&quot;, and now &quot;The Odyssey&quot; have become the translations read for pure enjoyment. No longer does one `know' of the classics but never read them, now we read them too. Thankfully, Robert Fagles has produced a translation worthy of the original sense of Homer's great poem. It captures well the suffering and tragedy Odysseus went through in his journey full of trials and tribulations from the great ogre, the Cyclops, to the beautiful Calypso and finally one of his greatest tests, the suitors seeking his wife's approval after 20 years absence from his homeland.<br />As usual the introduction by Bernard Knox (NB my earlier mistake in the review on The Iliad) is highly informative and shows real depth of understanding of Homeric poetry, an invaluable aid in the full comprehension of the poem. In addition the extra maps of the Homeric word as well as a glossary of terms and a section detailing some of the characters in more depth provide an excellent background which may be missing in a non-classical education. Certainly this is the transaltion to use when teaching of classic poetry in schools since the child is captivated by the flow of the story and the fast pace which keeps one glued to the book, although not as pacy as The Iliad it is a different sort of story. Unlike the Iliad which is replete with battles and war, The Odyssey is the story of a journey and is of a different tune. I once tried to read an earlier translation of The Odyssey a few years ago and found it stuffy and staid, this is no longer true of Fagles work, were it only the case of other great classics. I felt throughout that Fagles kept to the aura of the original even when substituting more modern expressions for the older ones eg &quot;holding nothing back&quot; is obviously a modern phrase but it captures what the poem is saying and that is what is important ie capturing the poem as a whole. This has been ably achieved. An excellent book.excellent book.	2001-06-20
US	52486517	R14XID65SD8O8Z	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	4	9	9	N	N	I am looking forward to his &quot;Odyssey&quot;.	Almost my first experience of the Iliad by Homer, here translated by Robert Fagles with a simply superb introduction by Robert Knox who lays the groundwork for the plot and illuminates the characters of the story. The translation itself is excellent although at times some colloquial terms have been used to express the feeling of the original Greek to a modern reader. This did detract but overall it was a translation which held you in all its heat of battle or sorrow for dying men.<br />We see that even though there are many lines of the poem repeated so as to give a sense of the character involved it never becomes boring or lacking creativity. The battle scenes are brutal as they would be in reality with little held back, especially the fighting of Achilles which is merciless. Somehow the poem expresses both the violence in the battles and the pain of loss by the death of any of the individuals involved. It's the first time I have met this way of storytelling without a solid development of character beforehand. Homer was truly adept at this. I am looking forward to his &quot;Odyssey&quot; all the more.<br />Something I did notice which stood out strongly and that was the bias inherent in Homer's favouring the Achaeans over the Trojans. Many times we see him speaking of the Achaeans as great in all they did, their stalwartness and courage whereas Trojans were often portrayed as cowardly or when they achieved some feat as lucky or as given the advantage by the Gods. Strangely even though Homer finds something good to say for most of the participants he seems reluctant in the case of Helen who is seen as a prostitute at best, it doesn't seem that there is any attempt at expressing the feelings between Paris and Helen rather their &quot;romance&quot; seems to be a sideline to the real story which is that of Achilles, the beloved of the Gods, his pride, strength and love of war. These criticisms would be irrelevant if one did not get the feeling that the Iliad was written as a kind of historical narrative since of course Troy did exist and its destruction did occur. I found this feeling hard to avoid although I'm sure others do not have this problem.<br />Many points come across as to the lifestyle and ways of thought of the ancient Greeks: (1) Nothing happens without the Gods intervention or influence in everyday life. The Gods are ever-present sometimes even appearing to people in person, most of the times in disguise. (2) Women themselves were looked on as prizes, eg literally as a prize when Achilles captured Briseis. Their beauty and handicrafts were recognised but that's about it. (3) A man's worth was measured through courage, bravery in war and skills if in peacetime. Riches are secondary. Athletic prowess is essential. Older men are looked on with respect especially for their achievements in the past eg Nestor. (4) Men don't have freedom in their lives, everything is dictated by the Gods or fate. Choices don't seem to exist like they do today. But then even the Gods are under te yoke of fate, it is often noted that it is not a God's fate to die since they are immortal but by saying this they must be under the sway of fate as well.<br />An excellent story, told I think, as it was intended.en as a kind of historical narrative since of course Troy did exist and its destruction did occur. I found this feeling hard to avoid although I'm sure others do not have this problem.<br />Many points come across as to the lifestyle and ways of thought of the ancient Greeks: (1) Nothing happens without the Gods intervention or influence in everyday life. The Gods are ever-present sometimes even appearing to people in person, most of the times in disguise. (2) Women themselves were looked on as prizes, eg literally as a prize when Achilles captured Briseis. Their beauty and handicrafts were recognised but that's about it. (3) A man's worth was measured through courage, bravery in war and skills if in peacetime. Riches are secondary. Athletic prowess is essential. Older men are looked on with respect especially for their achievements in the past eg Nestor. (4) Men don't have freedom in their lives, everything is dictated by the Gods or fate. Choices don't seem to exist like they do today. But then even the Gods are under te yoke of fate, it is often noted that it is not a God's fate to die since they are immortal but by saying this they must be under the sway of fate as well.<br />An excellent story, told I think, as it was intended.	2001-06-07
US	52486517	R8BUERRPNPYIA	0226458083	89443239	The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Books	3	10	13	N	N	A classic which will stay with us.	This is a classic in both philosophy and history of science written by a practising scientist who at first was skeptical of any such analysis of science itself. For many, even today, who have had no contact with the philosophical and historical investigation of the development of science and scientific theories over the centuries, mainly since Newton and Descarte, science remains the epitomy of the objective, value free way of looking at the world through theories which are supposed to make sense of the world as it is perceived. Kuhn, himself an avid supporter of the scientific viewpoint, came to investigate the subject of science itself through interactions with the historians and philosophers of his time. He then carried on a thorough investigation of the development of theories in science and produced his influential idea of paradigm shift.<br />There is much to recommend this book it's well written and his ideas are well supported by historical evidence, often by the notes of the scientists involved themselves. In addition, rather than being a simple construction of paradigm shift, Kuhn elaborates and considers all manner of influence on scientists' ideas such as subjective notions of ideas on nature eg philosophy, religion etc. At times these points are not made forcefully and can be missed. Often the criticisms of his work are due to a casual reading of his book which do not note his deep analysis.  Though a good book and worth every bit of its praise, it is not a book read for enjoyment unlike, for example, Feyerabend's &quot;Against Method&quot;. I got through it and appreciated its worth but like one other reviewer mentioned I was looking forward to reading something else. Certainly not that much of a downside though.<br />A classic which will stay with us.	2001-05-28
US	52486517	RLNLLUBFEKLJF	0231075642	566736380	Life Itself	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A very good book indeed.	A very good book indeed. Rosen's depth of understanding of a very wide range of issues pertaining to a aspects of science, philosophy, especially epistimology, is remarkable. It is obvious Rosen has thought long and hard about the problems he addresses in this book. A reminder however that this book is not for laymen, it is quite technical requiring I would say up to 3rd year undergraduate pure mathematics: set theory, group theory, lattice theory, graph theory and category theory. None of these are trivial or straightforward, although amazingly Rosen shows just how transparent these theories can be if explained in a way that has direct meaning rather than the dry, symbolic way they are taught in the usual pure maths courses. Rosen uses these mathematical constructions to configure a very solid basis of the modelling procedure used in science whether physics or biology. Through the idea of maps and constructing the so-called modelling relation&quot; he investigates very thoroughly the way to both analyse and synthesise models of the natural world. He first takes one on a short discourse on the philosophy required such as the perceiver and the observer and how the world is related and seen by them. He looks closely at the standard approaches people have used throughout the centuries of the development of science. Aristotle whose work was discredited through a lack of understanding of it in the last 4 centuries is revived especially his ideas of causation: efficient, material, formal and also final cause which is the problem area of normal science today where no final cause could possibly be acceptable since in the usual interpretation it refers to the backward causation in time from effects to causes. Rosen touches on many areas of contention and one does not expect most scientists to accept his views.<br />Rosen then, through his very general relational approach, constructs the ideas  of mechanism and machines as they are conceived of today. He shows very clearly that natural phenomena, especially living organisms, cannot possibly be machines or that physics, the science which is supposed to be more basic than biology, cannot encompass biology either given its mechanistic approach. He shows that organisms are entailed within themselves in a simple way and goes on to say that physics has much to learn from this approach. The comments of Bohm come to mind when he mentioned that the sea of electrons almost appears to be alive. Rosen doesn't  waffle, he doesn't talk in round about ways or use approaches which have no relation to already existing ideas. He uses very simply well understood mathematics to construct a theory of the natural world which surpasses the normal mechanistic paradigm, very easily and completely so that one wonders why anyone was ever so captivated by it in the first place or why thinking is so confined by it. Rosen is always clear and his reasoning is sound. <br />All in all a remarkable book. I felt that this was just the start of his whole endeavour and that there is much that he hasn't said or written down. Too bad this and the book of essays was his last work. <br />There are a couple of criticisms, there are quite a few spelling mistakes and typing errors and he doesn't allow that set theory isn't the be all and end all, this is still his basis and stays that way. The possibility that there are other ways to approach reality than set theory and maps his never considered but then that would have been an incredible achievement. Who knows what gems he never mentioned.	2001-05-06
US	52486517	R3NLDYDHUXFEZO	0451522907	467344666	Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions (Signet Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A wonderful book containing hitherto unexpected insights	The justly famous Flatland by Abbott stands out for several reasons<br />1. Its old Victorian style writing which is written from the somewhat &quot;distant observer&quot; viewpoint with the accompanying Englishness to go with it. It is full of social mores of the time (1884) such as the role of women in society or the very specific roles of the &quot;lower classes&quot; and those of the higher levels of society. Included also in this is the social graces themselves where his &quot;feeling&quot; inserted into the book as a means of differentiating various shapes is really a metaphor for the almost repugnant consequences of a meeting between a peasant and a member of the Aristocracy. As such the book is a superb example of he Victorian Age.<br />2. Another aspect, maybe not so much mentioned, is the fact that the book presents a fine example of the fact that people are trapped by their own culture/upbringing, this time dealt with through the idea of a 2 dimensional being not being able to comprehend 3 dimensions. Apart from the fact that the mind is  not able to get around the concept of dimensions higher than the usual 3 I believe the book was intended maybe even accidently to support the idea of a prison of your own culture. However Abbott goes on to show that people are infinitely adaptable and there are ways to meet these seemingly insurmountable challenges. Again a path breaking book when looked at from this angle, who before Abbott would have considered such a view.<br />3. Finally the book presents many wonderful examples of the illumination of strange concepts not even considered in ordinary life through the vessel of the trek of the square who attempts to grasp his new world with the aid of a sphere. <br />A wonderful little book containing hitherto unexpected insights.	2001-04-11
US	52486517	R19UHVXM428ICA	0226245330	31557271	Conquest of Abundance: A Tale of Abstraction versus the Richness of Being	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A good book with ideas which need to be expressed, NOW	The wonderful, idiosyncratic and radical philosopher of science Paul Feyerabend, has written a book about the historical eradication or diminishment of the full richness of being itself. By this he means the experience of each and every human being on the planet with the totality of his/her culture, thoughts, feelings, prejudices, opinions and so on and so on. This is of course wildly expansive and demonstrates the variety as experienced by people everywhere. Feyerabend's main contention is that, over time, and through the gradual abstraction practised by select people, often philosophers or &quot;scientists&quot; or anyone who is pulled in this direction through his/her education, influence of others or a bent away from the &quot;scary real world&quot;, the fullness of one's world is slowly made barren, empty of life. Anyone who grows up in the education system of the Western world can confirm this idea (the teachers of Robin Williams calibre aka &quot;Dead Poet's Society&quot; are few and far between). Unfortunately, science especially has been progressively dehumanised not through a need to objectify but rather through the belief that this is necessary or the &quot;real&quot; world will escape us. Now more than ever this is powerfully evident and as Feyerabend notes: &quot;...the arts whose popularity at any rate far outweighs that of the sciences eg rock music, film etc&quot; (pp 261). No longer, or infrequently so, are readers captivated by the incredible intuitive power of an Aristotle or a Heraclitus. There is a general need for something which should replace the now discredited world religions, science or the abstraction it now stands for is not it. <br />Feyerabend is radical in the sense that he knows there are more important things than science or philosophy, he continuously examines his own views and freely criticises them and explores them further rather than sticking to some form of personal dogma which is the current form of practice, no doubt strongly supported through the culture of the individual which now dominates the western world. He criticises philosophy for its lost concern for the world it once possessed (eg Aristotle) and the empty murmurings about abstract principles rather than the problems of the world such as famine, violence and environmental disasters.<br />As such this book is to be commended as a needed critique. However, this book is often a rehash of Feyerabend's earlier ideas so intensly expressed in his radical &quot;Against Method&quot;. This book lacks the earlier energy and power, but Feyerabend has lost none of his intelligence or wit even though this stood out far more through humourous twists and outright damnation in his earlier work. It is also unfortunate he never finished this book with, I believe, at most half of it completed before his death. I felt that the earlier parts, which investigate the Greeks and the start of abstraction, would have been thoroughly complemented with later historical eras and at least a chapter devoted to the opening of society and a renewal of the zest for life which Feyerabend wanted to invigorate today's world with.<br />The publishers note that it is a book for every man and is supposed to be written for anyone to read and enjoy not as a technical exercise. Rather we find that the arguments are not straighforward or that enjoyable and I feel the book is intended far more for the interested scientists and philosophers &quot;out there&quot; who are looking for a way to energise their own fields.<br />Nonetheless a good book with ideas which need to be expressed, NOW	2001-03-28
US	52486517	R3UWTZUKYB5QWN	0140444483	978335397	The Roman History: The Reign of Augustus (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	19	21	N	N	An essential read in Roman history	Dio's Roman History:the reign of Augustus, is an essential read in the range of Roman history texts which cover this important era in Roman history when the Republic came to an end and the Empire began.    Dio stands in strong contrast to Tacitus writing of the same period in that Dio isn't anywhere near as entertaining and appears far more pragmatic although as other reviewers have noted the style is one of history as a consequence of the fitness of the rulers to rule. As such, there is nothing wrong with this, it must be remembered that at the time Dio lived the Empire was in dire straits after the succession of Severus to be followed by a virtual plague of civil wars and barbarian attacks which were overcome with difficulty and it stands as a testimony to the rulers during this period that the Empire survived. This then is the viewpoint from which Dio writes. He doesn't let Augustus appear too much of a demi-god but also brings out his weaknesses and does not just praise him but rather explains how he was able to reign so well with the help of extremely able men such as Agrippa and Maecenas and the leadership of Drusus.     Unfortunately the book is interspersed with numerous \\"created\\" speeches which don't ring true, rather different from Tacitus where they certainly sound more genuine. Also it covers far better the events in the capital than in the provinces and more detail as regards the campaigns in Germany would have been illuminating.     Nonethelss a good book, well worth it for a study of the style of Roman scholarship of the time.	2001-03-26
US	52486517	R1RJLDKHGP5TTQ	0312209452	935839269	A Glimpse of Nothingness: Experiences in an American Zen Community	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The training is everywhere	Once again Jan Willem van de Wetering in his humourous style exposes his experiences to the world without embarrassment or shyness. Ten years after his experience as a young man in the Zen monastery in Japan under the old master, even though he had separated from \\"Peter\\", the old masters heir to be, on bad terms, he meets him again in Holland and Peter visits him at his home. He decides to continue where he left off with his koan still smoldering inside. He spends some time at Peter's Zen community, or commarde as others called it, and solved his koan as well as others. We learn more of Peter and especially of the fascinating set of characters who are also seeking, such as Edgar or Rupert the erstwhile psychologist. As before, he struggles with the required discipline but this time it's not as hard, he has gained from his stay in Japan; as the old master said at the end of the first book \\"you are now a little awake, so awake you will never be able to fall asleep again\\".     The training is everywhere.	2001-03-05
US	52486517	R28QUTGANI6PS1	0231105118	227463215	Essays on Life Itself	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Rosen will be missed	In a series of essays, Robert Rosen, the brilliant mathematical biologist whose name was made with earlier books such as \\"Anticipatory Systems\\" and \\"Life Itself\\" expounds his ideas both on the standard accepted dogma in biology today and some snippets of his own energetic investigations into new ideas about what biology is all about.    Unlike many of his contemporaries Rosen is not afraid to let other areas influence his own ideas, e.g. he draws on philosophy especially the work covering epistemology and the Mind-Brain problem to deeply investigate the accepted state of biology today especially the, unexpectedly metaphysical, basis of the reductionistic approach to most of science as it is today. He investigates in 5 parts: Biology and Physics, Biology and the Mind, Genericity, Similarity and Dissimilarity in Biology and Biology and Technology.    His initial concern is Schroedinger's question \\"What is Life\\". Of course this can't be answered today without in effect \\"loosing the organism\\" in the process. Rather than accept Schroedinger's work as a standard exposition of the accepted view he maintains it is far more radical, this agrees well with earlier statements of Heisenberg who also supports the view that reductionistic science more and more shrinks the domain of \\"true\\" scientific investigation, or rather what may be considered scientific and what may be thought of as hocus-pocus or vitalism.    Rosen does not shirk his responsibilities in exposing the weaknesses of the reductionistic and mechanistic views including in his critique the Church-Pythagoras Thesis, modeling, mimetics, simple and complex systems, Turing machines etc. Rosen emphasises that the ordinary mechanistic physics of today is the study of \\"simple systems\\" i.e. systems which are simulable or representable by a Turing machine, he categorically states that these systems are at most \\"complicated\\" but not \\"complex\\". In other words real organisms and living beings are in fact complex in the sense ofnot being mechanisms i.e. not being computable in the form of an algorithm as well as not formalisable. What is important are not just these radical ideas, which have been mentioned before in various forms by others, but rather Rosen's ability to clarify and put them on some sort of solid footing without having them declared outright conceptual mumbo-jumbo which is far more easy to do when the ideas are not well constructed and supported.    All in all this is an excellent set of essays introducing Rosen's work for laymen although there are many technical terms which are assumed and I felt that at times his expositions was stunted just when it got going and you expected more, it's as if Rosen was just getting into it when he realised it's an essay he's writing and not a book. As such, I look forward to reading his original \\"Life Itself\\", \\"Anticipatory Systems\\" and other fascinating books which unfortunately are now out of print. Rosen is never short of deep mathematical understanding, in fact he had that rare ability to combine both great intuitive insight and the ability to convert it into mathematics. Although there is a lack of rigour in the mathematics it must be remembered that this is a set of essays and the underlying ground rules of the maths is assumed rather than swept under the carpet. Some essays require a good understanding of the maths used e.g. category theory, linear algebra, calculus. None of this should discourage the average reader because it can be followed without this knowledge base.    I certainly hope that more mathematicians follow in his footsteps not avoiding the difficult areas of philosophy, applied mathematics and physical insight. Rosen will be missed.	2001-02-24
US	52486517	RZQOIS6JNPOPL	0140440607	188361232	The Annals of Imperial Rome (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent as usual	I must agree with some of the other reviewers who note the annoying habit of Grant to use division, brigade and colonel instead of the Roman terms which of course are now in common usage. Other than that Grant is an excellent translator, see for example his numerous other books on Roman history/Emperors. Thankfully these terms are defined in an appendix.<br />This book by Tacitus much like his other &quot;Histories&quot; approaches the subject in the same way which varies considerably from the more light hearted approach of &quot;Agricola and the Germania&quot;. However unlike the Histories Tacitus does not yet give the overwhelming impression of an Empire which is degrading and falling apart at the moral seams. This impression is present strongly throughout the Histories. Instead in this fascinating journey through the times of Tiberius, Claudius and Nero extending from the dates: 14-66 AD we are presented not only with the lives of the Emperors but also some of the knights and senators who played a role in the affairs of the time. In addition there are numerous excerpts about events which take place on the frontier eg the revolt in Germania and the revenge of the Teutoburger Forest disaster and remarkably enough a very interesting account of the Royal family and trouble on the Eastern frontier with Parthia.<br />I am always fascinated by Tacitus's ability to make the barbarians seem like Romans, they often have Roman names and Roman weaknesses such as greed and corruption, it brings them closer to the Romans as human beings rather than alienating them. Here again we are met with the bravery and courage of the ordinary Roman soldier much as it was described by Caesar in his Gaulish wars. The legionary has lost none of his stalwartness and stoic characteristics eg &quot;The Germans were as brave as our men ...&quot; (p 86). Tacitus speaks glowingly of Germanicus and rather disparagingly of Tiberius who he considers an emperor lacking in moral fibre. It is interesting to note his favouritism for certain people such as Germanicus and to some degree Claudius and his strong bias against both Tiberius and Nero (who no doubt deserved this). <br />It too is unfortunate that some of his works were lost which of course interferes with the flow of the account and interrupts the reader's concentration. Nonetheless Tacitus is a brilliant hostorian writing in an entertaining style, in spite of his bias, thereby describing the time well rather than presenting a series of facts lacking a sense of place and culture.<br />Excellent as usual.	2001-02-05
US	52486517	R31LPV76TWAARC	0066210828	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The picture says it all	Gao Xingjian the well known Chinese author and artist here writes of his travels in China after a diagnosis of lung cancer and the persecution of him by the government. With the amazing redemption offered him after a second x-ray allays his fears on the cancer he commences to travel throughout the heart of both China and himself. You could say these are travels of the domain of the self as are of course all travels no matter where you go. This is not so much a novel as a set of experiences both external and internal. At first, the reader is confused by the interchange between what he is doing and the excerpts of conversations with &quot;She&quot; the mysterious woman who he talks to and about, she may be one woman or many this is not made clear although at times it seems there is only one, possibly, the &quot;one&quot;. <br />Probably the best way to describe this book is by the stark and beautiful drawing on the cover which encapsulates the fullness of the whole book itself, much like the subtlety of chinese culture and language. The lonely being on the mountain Lingshan, which may or may not be a mountain, perhaps it is a place he seeks which cannot be found as a physical place but rather a place you can go to without ever leaving.<br />At times the book is slow going and some of the conversations become labourious and yet these are compensated by some truly luminous pieces especially when it comes to the conversations with SHE who forms the most important focus of his journey. These conversations are intimate and searching asking much of the author as is the case in real relationships when it comes to the revealing of the innermost parts of the soul. It seems that small trivial sounding things are just that but they usually hide something far more important. Often his life seems completely lost in its cynicism for exmaple She says: &quot;it was you who said that love is an illusion people conjure up to delude themselves, you don't believe in the existence of something called love&quot; and then at other times She notes: &quot;love is stressful and wearisome&quot;. The book is full of the contradictions of a human life. <br />Even though the novel comes across sometimes as a life with little hope it does have a germ or spark within it. Life is still worth living afterall and even needs to be lived eg: &quot;I want to stay forever with you on this snowy night. Don't go away don't abandon me. I want cry. I don't know why. Don't abandon me, don't go so far from me...&quot;.<br />Unfortunately the subtleties and hidden meanings of the Chinese language and culture become lost in the translation but it is still there between the lines.<br />The picture says it all.	2001-02-05
US	52486517	R2GRE7YXKXO4FA	0805203095	330523954	Animal Forms and Patterns: A Study of the Appearance of Animals	Books	4	13	13	N	N	If only more of his work has survived	Here is a book written with grace and style, a book where the ideas flow from one another and progress gradually and still make their point. Portmann, the famed Swiss zoologist, has written his most famous work now unfortunately out of print but still worth getting. There are no earth shattering statements but rather careful study culminating in the relaxed style he uses. This book has been written for the general reader although it is not lacking in academic qualities and the practicing scientist can still gain enormous insight into his/her field and especially in how to write well and without pandering for the market as many do today.<br /><br />Portmann introduces his ideas regarding the \\"form\\" of an organism through practical studies of the animals themselves considering not ony external shapes but internal developments such as nervous systems, organs and so forth. He brings to mind the interlaced wholeness of the organism, rather than being constructed from bits as seems to be the current way of thought. Certainly the book is not as ground breaking as D'Arcy Thompson's remarkable work but still, whereas Thompson considers the mathematical structures shown to be relevant in an animals build, Portmann looks at the whole animal and makes his most important point that organisms are not just structured for functions' sake but rather exude self expression not in the human way of expression of their own idea of self but rather as an expression of the \\"type\\" which IS the animal itself. This idea sort of creaps up on you as you read his book which is full of very good drawings making his points.<br /><br />As I reached the end of it I found that much more work needs to be done in this way of study in order to bring back, so to speak, the organic aspect of the organism and let biology once again be a science of life rather than an attempt to imitate the exact sciences such as physics. I believe that through such approaches not only biology but the whole of science can undergo a fundamental change in its current outlook which is of course a product of the mechanistic way of thought. This way of work enriches science and its study avoiding the deadness often felt once something has been analysed until basically nothing remains of the elusive \\"life\\" which is the only real meaning attached to a science of life.<br /><br />If only more of his work has survived.tal change in its current outlook which is of course a product of the mechanistic way of thought. This way of work enriches science and its study avoiding the deadness often felt once something has been analysed until basically nothing remains of the elusive \\"life\\" which is the only real meaning attached to a science of life.    If only more of his work has survived.	2001-01-21
US	52486517	RSN2RIGYVT5KT	0860916464	43300814	Against Method: Outline of an Anarchistic Theory of Knowledge	Books	5	106	119	N	N	Anything Goes	Feyerabend was probably the first philosopher of science who really stated that science as it is practised by scientists themselves is NOT an enterprise which can be strictly constructed or even fully described in any conventional methodical way such as the philosophies of positivism and even rationality or idealism for that matter propose. As is true for any human enterprise, no matter how strongly this is denied by the popular science press, it is, as Feyerabend puts it, an anarchaic enterprise, this does not mean random chaos or a process with no order rather he refers to the fact that scientists just as authors of great literature or poets, pursue their subject via many paths rather than the strict methodologies which are supposed to define science, in fact these methodologies fail to be `...capable of accounting for such a maze of interactions'. Einstein is noted as saying that `The external conditions which are set for the scientist by the facts of experience do not permit him to let himself be too much restricted, in the construction of his conceptual world, by the adherence to an epistemological system'. Feyerabend goes on to say that `The attempt...to discover the secrets of nature and of man, entails, therefore, the rejection of all universal standards and of all rigid traditions.' So starts his book &quot;Against Method&quot; and through detailed analysis of the scientists and the phenomenon in question Feyerabend proceeds to demolish any assertions which compress science into a box which stands alone outside of all other influences such as religion, history, culture or philosophy.<br />The idea that irrational means are used by scientists to form theories and understand phenomena is stressed. Similarly the fact that an observation is made does not necessarily imply the theory which follows eg the moon seen through Galeleos eyes. Also, reason is sometimes discarded in favour of new, seemingly unreasonable, ideas which explain the phenomenon and finally science itself becomes a kind of tradition in its own way. The blindness of the usual ways of thinking about science as expressed in the popular press is made clear and it is shown science is not and never has been or will be the only true way of understanding the universe.<br />Feyerabend's book is very entertaining given the radical and playfull nature of the man himself (see `Killing Time', his autobiography), nonetheless it is very well researched and his argument is solid. He does not shirk his academic responsibilities but rather writes as he thinks is best in order to explain his ideas without necessarily having to write in a cold or overly rational way.<br />Feyerabend also includes excerpts from his experience of famous scientists during his life such as the radical Felix Ehrenhaft, the young Popper full of vitality or Wittgenstein. He further explores his own misgivings when teaching people of cultures other than his own eg native Americans, Mexicans and so on and his own understanding that he had no real right to say his own phiosophical view or rather the one pushed by his society was any better than theirs or that intellectual procedures which approach a problem through concepts are the right way to go. Feyerabend stresses that the phrase &quot;anything goes&quot; is far more relavent to the progress of human knowledge and science.<br />An excellent book written with style	2001-01-11
US	52486517	R2ASGKU5UV4TCU	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book read again and again and again and again ....	What can one say about the greatest science fiction comedy ever written, Richard Cowper had a go but this is just ... well ... the Hitchhikers Guide, what can you say. This book so full of creativity is a phenomenon, this book flies &quot;like bricks don't&quot; as Dougkas Adams has been known to say. Such wit and of course the very English sarcasm.<br />The story of Arthur Dent a rather pathetic figure whose house is about to be bulldozed to make way for a new highway bypass and is then rescued by his friend Ford Prefect (named after a car) and then attempts to halt the destruction by lying in the squelching mud in front of the bulldozers, is helped all the way by the bumbling foreman Mr Prosser who is, remarkably enough, a long distant descendant of Ghengis Khan and has a prediliction for litte furry hats and axes over his doorway, although the bravery of the great Khan has not been transmitted. This is how the story starts instantly enveloping the reader in a world of comedic joy with amazing creativity without becoming weak or slapstick in any way. The characters involved vary from the aforementioned Arthur, to Ford Prefect, Zaphod Beeblebrox, the erstwhile president of the galaxy a position of no power at all, Marvin the paranoid android a product of the hopeless Sirius Cybernetics Corporation whose largest department, which occupies the major portion of an entire planet, is its complaints division, the Vogons who like to spout shockingly bad poetry (the 3rd worst in existence) are callous and cruel and a host of other amazing creatures. <br />Not only are the characters fascinating but the situations they get into are as well, eg the rescue of Arthur as Earth is being destroyed by the Vogons to make way for a new hyperspace bypass is miraculous because it happens as they are dumped unceremoniously by a Vogon guard through the airlock and wisked out of the vacuum by the Improbability drive ship stolen by Zaphod. <br />Only an Englishman could come up with thissort of comedic treasure. Maybe something to do with the stiff upper lip and all that.<br />A book read again and again and again and again  ......	2000-12-03
US	52486517	R2QSK360IPB10V	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A burst of comedic genius	Well haven't I said enough about the first one ? No, nope definitely not. The first time ever I have commented on a trilogy and talked about the sequel to the first one, its worth it.<br />The travels continue with Arthur Dent, Ford Prefect, Zaphod Beeblebrox, Trillian and Marvin ending up at the &quot;Restaraunt at the End of the Universe&quot;, literally that, a restaraunt where people from all over creation can observe the destruction of the entire Universe in comfort and dine throughout while listening to the compere Max Quardlepleen who makes jokes in bad taste and basically just has some fun, the meal itself being amazingly expensive because the restaraunt is held in a time bubble, investing a single penny in the distant past in a bank account will of course pay for it after extremely long term interest is calculated. There are of course many strange people here too such as followers of the second coming of the great prophet Zarquon who is amazingly late but who through some sort of miracle appears in the last few seconds only to vanish in a puff of smoke, some people from Sirius B the dog star making appropriate barking noises and others who feel quite depressed after Max notes : &quot;And there we see the Solar system of Gastromil boiling away into the ultra violet, its too late to worry about whether you've left the gas on now&quot;. <br />This is the best of the series no doubt about it, the burst of genius started in the first book blooms in this one. Just a taste of what can be found in this superb comedy.	2000-12-03
US	52486517	R1Z5NY7T7KLF3V	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Other books are judged next to this	This review is intended for the entire Foundation trilogy and as such this series of books even though written in pieces in Science Fiction magazines is woven together in an astonishingly complex web of ideas and mystery. This series stands as the epitome of the science fiction classic, what science fiction should be about and how it should be written. As a classic it is only superseded by &quot;Dune&quot; and only a few others come close eg &quot;Ender's Game&quot; (Orson Scott Card) series and the &quot;Galactic Milieu&quot; series (Julian May). The whole series is epic and yet does not loose sight of the characters or the story which is all important in science fiction, without it the wizz-bang effect takes hold and the whole thing collapses, eg Terminator could not have been held together without the excellent storyline. Other examples of great science fiction stories include &quot;Blade Runner&quot; and &quot;Alien&quot; both of which had great stories without a reliance on effects which some films have done eg the extra added graphics to the original Star Wars and too much graphics in Episode 1.<br />These stories also provide a fascinating tale of science yet to come such as psychohistory which totally fascinated me when I read about it and some other physicists I have known. The possibilities are incredible a science of probabilistic mathematics used to predict the future given historical events. In addition we are of course confronted with the politics and the usual human weaknesses including greed, corruption and the like, much akin to the degenerate aspects of the Roman Empire. The new mathematics of psychohistory developed by Hari Seldon working on Trantor and trying to set up the two Foundations to at least control the eventual collapse and fall of humanity into a dark age and the Mule the one person not predicted by the original theory who is the defeated through remarkable twists and turns in the story which is full of intrigue and mystery, simply unputdownable. I have read the books many times and will do so again although psychohistorical mathematics is beyond current attainability I believe, but then maybe not.<br />Other books are judged next to this.	2000-12-02
US	52486517	R1JC12IWJD91EN	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	All in all very entertaining	Brian Herbert attempts to complete the stories leading up to Dune, surely the greatest science fiction novel yet written. However he does not capture the feel of Dune which is so rich and intriguing, a great depth of politics, psychology, personality and hidden agendas and hidden backgrounds which not only create a great mystery and give a mystical feel to the whole story but also capture the reader completely. Frank Herbert knew how to write about people and their characters with such consummate skil, it will be hard to find even in his son or anyone who attempts such a great vision which this book does not. But then it cannot, not really because this vision was created already in Dune itself and as such had to be followed to stay true. The grand scale of Dune and the awesome sense of the Empire is not wholly captured. Some of this was portrayed extremely well in the film with the costumes especially and the various machines and the worms, however it failed to live up to the whole because it simply wasn't long enough you need a long term series to do that, I would think at least 3 or 4 films.<br />Nonetheless this book maintains the interest and to some degree the sense of the first and it reveals much more information about the main characters, even though one of the strengths of the original was the fact that it held it back. The things one learns about Pardot Kines and his son are fascinating and this is what is remembered most of all.<br />All in all very entertaining but it doesn't come close to the original.	2000-12-01
US	52486517	RD738DGW7REMQ	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Truly, one of the very best	I was first introduced to this book as a teenager by my mother of all people, whoever listens to their mother in their teenage years. There aren't many books which completely capture you as does &quot;Watership Down&quot; with the tales of Hazel, Bigwig and Fiver plus the interspersed stories of such as the black rabit of Inle. You get absorbed by the politics of the Owsla and the terror faced in the warren run by the general. Such a beautiful book, exceptional, are words that come to mind. Its so easy to be living their story and the death of Hazel is unbearably sad.<br />Truly, one of the very best.	2000-11-30
US	52486517	RCDXJI26R9O0A	0140513299	144559546	The Penguin Historical Atlas of Ancient Rome (Hist Atlas)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Highly recommended for a concise history of Rome	An excellent little booklet on ancient Rome starting from the initial stages as a city state right up to the decline and fall after 378 AD or so. A superb reference book simply because of its small size and quick clear illustrations with maps and diagrams which display important information extremely well, even the little known fact that Chinese ambassadors visited Rome in the age of Marcus Aurelius is fascinating. The book is full of gems like this. It outlines the trade that took place including the silk route to China and India, the major figures including not only the emperors but also the major proponents of art, history and rhetoric such as Cicero and Tacitus. This is a book intended for a quick summary not an in depth detailed look at a topic as such it does this very well indeed. <br />Highly recommended for a concise history of Rome	2000-11-28
US	52486517	R3V4ABLJU8H4RZ	0140444335	679195868	The Conquest of Gaul (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	17	21	N	N	An excellent narrative, thorough as the man himself	Caesar's Commentaries as they were suposed to be seen contrast markedly with say the &quot;Histories&quot; of Tacitus. How strong is this constrast, well we will see. But first, Caesar's Gallic wars covers his years as Consul and the gradual conquest of the lands known today as France, Belgium, Holland and the western parts of Germany. The book itself never mentions any of the political infighting taking place both in the Senate itself and among the enemies and friends of Caesar. Many things stand out in the history itself such as Caesar's advanced age before he started his conquests, given his birth in 100 BC and the start of the Gallic consulship in 58 BC Caesar was aready 42 years old. Interesting as well, is Caesar's insistence on the use of the third person to comment on the subsequent wars, and then even more surprising the change to first person in a very few instances to make a point. No doubt this is a device often invoked at the time to try to ensure impartiality or some  fashionable way of writing. Certainly these commentaries were intended to be read by military and senatorial leaders on the way to wage war in Gaul and for that matter maybe even in Germany.<br />Now we come to the fascinating contrasts with Tacitus's &quot;Histories&quot; for example. Somehow in the intervening time between the conquests of Caesar and the year of the four emperors, about 100 years, much had changed. Not only in the style of writing itself but in the way both Roman and foreign society was envisaged in Roman eyes. Nowhere except in a very few occasions did Caesar mention that his men needed encouragement for the fight, or lacked bravery. But then in Caesar's day the men were indebted to him to ensure both pay and security, Caesar or one of his generals having recruited them himself and being levied only for a number of years rather than the long term service required from a certain date onward (possibly Augustus's time). We see again and again the expressions of bravery and courage witnessed by Caesar of his own men in action and the determination requiring incredible effort to construct siege engines or wait out a siege, or for that matter the persistance by the armies involved in continuing the struggle to conquer territory when there was no real incentive to do so apart from honour in war and the gratitude of their general.<br />First came the invasion of northern Italy into Cisalpine Gaul where the Helvetii, an Alpine tribe, planned a migration into other parts directly imposing themselves on client tribes under Rome's protection and north Italy itself, a situation not tolerated. From there, after their defeat, Caesar continued into Gaul ostensibly to help other tribes against Germanic invaders originally called to help in domestic disputes between Gaulish tribes. In this way Caesar gradually eliminated tribe after tribe in clever tactics designed to disrupt the banding together of the whole of Gaul against him. Obtain hostages and promises from one and nove onto the next fight a decisive battle usually against odds such as 2-3 or even 5 to 1, defeat them and punish whatever was seen wrong in Roman eyes, establish Roman control and so the law and get Caesar as judge over disputes and Bob's your uncle, one conquered country. Caesar was not only a brilliant commander and very clever man but also excellent at getting his men to trust and love him, as well he knew how to plan and carry out a campaign, taking risks when necessary, all in all a natural talent.<br />He writes fluently with litte influence of personal detail but rather in an entertaining style easily captivated by. But the book is a commentary and intended as such, this must be remembered.<br />Throughout we see the vast difference in the times of Caesar and say Nero, in Caesar's time the eagerness and devotion and determination as well as courage of the Roman army could not be faulted, nowhere do we see cowardice in play, his men running or being frightened by the Germans with their reputation for ferocity and toughness. The confidence of the army grows as victory builds on victory. Unfortunately very little is said of military tactics in battle itself or the troop movements or how commands are given or how men are relieved with fresh troops in close combat fighting in multiple lines, this has remained a mystery but nonethelss a known ability which would have required astonishing discipline and bravery. On the other hand we see in Tacitus's day that corruption and fear and cowardice are ripe, everywhere one looks such a decline is obvious, where did the vital, proud and brave army go, or for that matter the people themselves. What a difference 100 years make and maybe a couple of defeats as well, such as the Varus disaster which basically ended a conquest of Germany, the one enemy, even more than the Parthians which were implacable and undefeated watching and waiting in the background for a hint of weakness. It is also seen how the way Romans saw foreigners changed significantly in this time, in Caesar's time they were simply barbarians and non-Romans, in Tacitus's time after decades of service in the army and long trade and contact they came to be seen in a new light more human and less barbarian. The Roman himself less stoic under pressure and more prone to weakness. Why did this happen ? Not simple questions if indeed it is true.<br />An excellent narrative unsentimental and thorough as the man himself.	2000-11-26
US	52486517	R27K0STF25D1QA	0140441506	141219283	The Histories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	A great book bringing the time alive	Tacitus the great Roman historian, although this means somewhat different things from what it does now, wrote during the eventful years of the first and second century straddling the changes in Roman society that took place over this time and the first inklings of the vast population movements which were still to come. <br />In these books he chronicles the events taking place in the year AD 69 during the civil war which followed the death of Nero and the power vacuum left in his wake. The machinations of Otho, Galba, Vitellius and Vespasian are laid bare in a story told from Tacitus's viewpoint. One gets the feeling that he wrote in times of cynicism and greed, corruption and a degenerate society come to the fore. Tacitus was convinced that Roman society, and I'm sure many thought so as well, had declined in its inherent worth. Tacitus always seems to be looking back to the golden eras of a strong, vital and honest society often represented by the early years of expansion and struggle exemplified by the early Republic with figures such as Cato and later by Marius and even Augustus. He writes I think to both judge his time and leave it open for improvement especially as regards the integrity of the common man. The book is full of treachery and corruption from the lowest ranks such as slaves and freed men right up to the senators themselves. Strangely, although these weaknesses consume him he nonetheless points out the decent core yet still awake in the Roman state. At one point Otho the Emperor, at war with Vitellius over the throne, appears a self indulgent man taking too much pleasure in food and drink, rather against the original stoic mind set of his Roman forebears, but in the next he appears not totally without merit through his inspirational speeches to the troops. The same applies to the entire retinue of the warring parties each of whom are analysed in a manner exposing their weaknesses and strengths, all done mostly through the story itself rather than through an in depth analysis of the individual characters as such. Yet another reason Tacitus was such a skilled writer. <br />As the year progresses and gradually Vitellius becomes dominant as Emperor and finally Vespasian makes his moves through fascinating political manoeuvres which include a number of personages even including Domitian, we see many aspects of the complex process at work in the eventual rise of Vespasian to the throne. <br />There are some things which stand out in the narrative, one of which disabuses us of the usual interpretation of the situation as regards the views held by the Roman populace to the external &quot;barbarians&quot;, especially in free Germany along the Rhine and Danube frontiers. What becomes clear is that even the seemingly alien Germans become part of the political process, they no longer seem a distant agressor hidden in the depths of the dark trackless forests of Germany but rather become human possessing the same weaknesses and strengths as other men. They are no longer seen as strictly alien to Romans themselves but are now players in the field of Empire. These new views seem at odds with other works even Tacitus's own &quot;Agricola and the Germany&quot; where the differences of these peoples from that of Rome is emphasised.<br />Although this &quot;new&quot; view is noted, much is made of the ability of the German auxiliaries, their toughness and strength and bold recklessness in war, an aura of eliteness surrounds them and even of fear in the eyes of the legions. Similar note is taken of separate legions themselves such as those of Germany who having fought the Germans themselves many times are also considered almost invincible. The 14th Legion which single handedly defeated the Boudiccan rebellion against enormous odds, being outnumbered at least five to one, also stand out and are taken as elite. <br />Unfortunately some of the original &quot;Histories&quot; is lost and this is shown by the abrupt end to the book justas Vespasian really starts to enter the picture. Nonetheless this is a fascinating book written with much skill and deft handling although it doesn't possess the same wit as his other &quot;Agricola and the Germany&quot;. This tome seems a more serious work and may have been intended as such.<br />A great book bringing the time alive.	2000-11-24
US	52486517	R2VU5XYT0TYD9A	0465072720	595513676	Symbiotic Planet: A New Look At Evolution	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An enjoyable read of the evolution of cells	To a large extent I agree with other reviewers in that the book is a quick read with some minor if annoying problems such as the obscure habit of inserting diagrams which appear to have no direct link to the text. If they do then it is not always obvious or well outlined. One also gets the impression the diagrams are very detailed for an audience of laymen and seem to be taken from medical texts, again one feels as though the book had been put together quickly, possibly under pressure from a publisher or some other reason.<br />Nonetheless Lynn Margulis is an accomplished biologist often highly underrated and fully deserving of her honours in the field where she developed the earlier idea of symbiogenesis of bacterial partners to form modern cell structure. One reviewer mentioned that she gives the impression of being self complementary and acting like an undertdog. I have personal experience of just such a scientist and one gets the feeling that a strong degree of self confidence, sometimes appearing as self congratulation or a seeming over emphasis to self advertise, is necessary to survive the sometimes personal barbs directed at an innovative scientist from others in his/her field, a healthy ego helps to persist in an environmemt which can go so far as to loose jobs and even give rise to ill health.<br />The book itself is very enjoyable and the personal anecdotes from Margulis's life lighten the story and help to put the reader in touch with the life of the scientists rather than being too impersonal. This also includes the fascinating characters represented by other scientists. Margulis strongly clarifies the concept of Gaia theory developed by James Lovelock in the seventies and removes the mystical element which a public lacking a spiritual element in their lives attach to it. Absolutely wonderful science and makes me want to check out more of her books and research.	2000-11-22
US	52486517	R2I7QT9W9FN6FX	0854404309	25093957	Man or Matter	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Good, but could have been much better	`Almost every scientific advance is bought at the cost of renunciation, almost every gain in knowledge sacrifices important standpoints...As facts and knowledge accumulate, the claim of the scientist to an understanding of the world in a certain sense diminshes'. So starts this very interesting work by Ernst Lehrs a long time student of Rudolf Steiner. This quotation is taken from a lecture Heisenberg gave in 1932 before the Saxon Academy of Science on the eve of Goethe's death, he continues : `The renouncing of life and immediacy, which was the premise for the progress of natural science since Newton, formed the real basis for the bitter struggle which Goethe waged against the physical optics of Newton. It would be superficial to dismiss this struggle as unimportant...'. That one of the great physicists of all time should say such things in a period of great advances in physics sounds strange to the ears of people brought up on the views of popular science as expounded by many scientists of today even when they themselves have nowhere near the kind of devotion to the normal reductionistic, mechanistic cause which is the only one the public is really aware of. The shift in the focus away from a purely mechanistic paradigm is a symptom of the diffusion of the &quot;new&quot; view now being taken even in scientific circles. Here Heisenberg really states two important consequences of normal science, one : the need for a careful investigation of the basis of science itself, what has now come to be known as the philosophy of science, and second : the need for another approach which avoids the strong feeling scientists get of separation between the phenomenon as it is actually experienced and the theory used to explain it. Here Goethe enters the fray as a poet and playwrite of exceptional ability who attempted to do just that, ie approach the phenomenon from another perspective.<br />During his life Goethe avidly studied many aspects of science such as optics, botany andgeology. Lehrs in his book takes the ideas of Goethe and Steiner as a starting point with the text separated into several sections. In the first few chapters he outlines his idea of the onlooker consciousness which most people live in todays world. Lehrs supports his views with those of Eddington, Heisenberg and others. As such this concept is valid and well developed throughout. He intersperses this with interesting asides which are of value in themselves. He further attpemts through a sort of conglomeration of psychological concepts and humanistic ideas a description of the emergence of this view. He discusses Goethe's ideas (at least at the beginning) in a manner not alien to Goethe himself or anyone who is familiar with his philosophical standpoint which is akin to phenomenology. This section ends in the potential hope of further fascinating ideas.<br />He goes on to discuss Kant and Hume in their critiques of man's ability to encompass the universe in his knowledge. Then unfortunately the wheels seem to fall off and I can simply agree with another reviewer when discussing Steiner who notes that much of what is said in the literature on Goetheanistic science is first full of truly remarkable and mind shattering ideas which are full of worth and potential but then the researchers themselves start to follow the same path as others before them eg they become obssessed and refuse to look at other views or even facts which stand before them, instead they diverge off into flights of fancy astonishingly free of evidence and full of fantasy and old traditional forms of thought which are taken out of context and used in superficial ways eg the four states water, fire, air, earth. One obtains a kind of higgildy piggildy mixture of good ideas and fantasy with no firm base. Its too bad since so much could have been forthcoming.<br />Having made this critique nonetheless the book is full of amazing concepts which deserve attention such as the way to look at Keplers formulaeand the structure of the solar system, or the non-local aspects of projective geometry. In this vein the book must be read and completed to ensure none of these interspersed gems are missed and the fantasies ruled out or read over. I'm not implying here that these ideas are completely vacuous, but they are alien to Goethe's own philosophy and the scientific spirit which it engenders, or even the one present today. A book well worth reading for the good bits.	2000-10-19
US	52486517	RFM4IPBC42IC7	0942299051	341605492	Matter and Memory	Books	3	30	35	N	N	As always, fascinating ideas	Athough some of the reviewers pick up some very important points such as the lack of clarity in &quot;Matter and Memory&quot;, which is very evident, this is contrasted with &quot;Creative Evolution&quot; (CE) which was far clearer, but then different translators were involved in each case. I do believe some of the translations suffer as a result of this. However I have also found that Bergson must be read at least twice in order to grasp the, at times, convoluted concepts. I found this book to be far less whole as a complete text in comparison with CE but nonetheless there were some fascinating ideas. Some of these ideas were developed but others I felt were left to lie idle. There is much depth in Bergson and one feels maybe that ordinary language is not very good at expressing his ideas which are dynamic, process based rather than, as European languages are, on nouns, a static concept.<br />I disagree with one of the reviewers saying how his science has been surpasssed, since almost all of his psychology is still valid as are the most important points related to a human beings own perception, I see no reason or any information which makes one state categorically that the brain must be the centre of the mind, a tool perhaps or a way of allowing the mind to come into expression but nothing like as solid which is needed for a proof of a mechanistic paradigm.<br />I also feel that Bergson coud be easily updated and made less convoluted by someone willing to take on his mode of thought and take into account the new science since Bergson's day, it has been 80 years or so. I believe that most of Bergson's work will in fact still be relevant, maybe even more so.<br />Bergson argues well that both materialism and idealism are bound to fail for in fact much the same reasons and that they are products of the same mode of thought even though their concepts are at polar opposites, sometimes a mode of thought is easily hidden by a different concept which maintains the same underpinning implicit/unconsciuous way of thinking.<br />Bergson is always worth reading not simply for his ideas which are fascinating even if outmoded but because of his radical thought process which allows a remarkable degree of expansion eg &quot;There are real movements&quot; this has many possible connotations in physics, psychology, metaphysics the realms of interest are endless. As such Bergson should be read for the ideas and the development which can occur from his work. As always with Bergson patience and multiple reads are the ways to a rewarding understanding and expansion of the mind.	2000-10-06
US	52486517	R1F64VOV98K7B6	0312251971	319698176	Teewinot: A Year in the Teton Range	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Now I'll have to learn to climb	Jack Turner has yet again produced a book with a sense of place and sometimes even an aura of the Tetons where he has climbed and guided for 40 years. Although this book is more relaxed and less intense than his powerful &quot;Abstract Wild&quot; it nevertheless provides a mature outlook on life in the Tetons. Turner is not afraid to reveal himself in this book and yet does not fall into sentimentality, the accounts of climbing and the experiences with friends are especially moving such as the tragic consequences of a fall for his friend Kim Schmitz who suffered in incredible agony after breaking just about everything or the death of Leigh Ortenburger, and yet there are great times too like the remarkable skiing of Mark Newcombe and Turner's love of Rilke and Haiku which also appeals very much to me. Surrounding these images of lost friends and at times extreme experiences is the national park itself which never leaves the scene always providing the glue which binds the whole together. Turner has a remarkable grasp of both the scientific aspects of the park such as the geology and the biology/ecology which is added to the feel of it at the same time, I mean the sense of being experienced when the mind is stilled, something which is always enhanced in a wild area where existence is forced upon you no longer escapable such as in a big city. Through the stories of the park, the people and his own very human outlook you can't help but feel Turner loves where he is and lives for it wholeheartedly, his own journey into philosophy, Zen show how deeply he thinks about his life and the natural environment. I also feel that he loves what he does and where he is so much that he not willing to give it up to go that extra distance needed in really deep meditation. My own experiences in this mean that joy can be found everywhere whether it is a city or in natural surroundings. Jack Turner is a man that I would like to meet, his energy, his dynamic outlook, his interest in just about everything is not that common nowadays. A wonderful book of a man and his love.	2000-09-25
US	52486517	R3V11NZ1WGW7ME	0140442413	910396082	The Agricola and the Germania (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	38	41	N	N	A living account of the Roman era	This wonderful little book by Tacitus translated by Harold Mattingly into  easily understandable English for the modern man provides a good insight  not only into Roman times of the 1st Century but the style and wit of  Tacitus himself who must have been widely read in his own times simply for  his engaging style, especially because, not in spite of, the moralisation  which is promoted throughout the book. Although Mattingly takes some  liberties with the translation inserting words or phrases which certainly  were not current in Roman times nonetheless he tries to let the book talk  of the times and give the correct impression so that a modern reader can  understand it, a task which is very difficult and needs considerable  thought which is one reason for praising the translator himself. Every  translation contains some inputs from the culture and character of the  translator, this cannot be avoided.<br />Tacitus describes the exploits of his  father in law Agricola who to all accounts was a very successful Governor  of Britain, although Tacitus gives the impression that Agricola was just  about the be all and end all as a man there must have been some truth to  this since such respect must be earned rather than imposed. The Germania is  also fascinating almost bringing to life the way of life of Germans living  beyond the frontiers, remarkably he manages to portray even those Germans  living a long way beyond the frontiers describing even the people who lived  in Denmark and Lithuania, this is amazing since no Roman expeditions ever  reached this far unless the historians obtained merely heresay or himself  travelled the area in question. But then surprises abound since even the  Chinese ambassador was known to have visited the Roman Empire in 160 AD and  a similar Roman delegation arrived in China in 180 AD.   A remarkable book  giving no end of joy in the reading.	2000-09-12
US	52486517	R2MFGTPMZDROT4	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Simply the best	A book which unreservedly deserves 5 stars if there were 10 available I  would give it 10. Simply one of the greatest science fiction masterpieces  ever written, there are some others which rate a close second such as the  Foundation Trilogy by Asimov, The Galactic Millieu by Julian May or Enders  Game by Orson Scott Card but they try to live up to this epitome of the  classic. Not only a classic but one you must read rather than the usual  attuitude to classics which everyone knows about but doesn't read. The  superb story concerning Paul Atreides and his parents as well as the  various remarkable characters which inhabit this Galactic Empire such as  the Bene Gesserit or the Sardaukar which stand out in the same way as the  Fremen as incredibly tough, proud warriors which would make a marine look  to them in awe. The whole world created as well as the politics,  psychological intrigue and so on are incomparable, the excitement involved  with the warrior ethic imbued in young Paul, it just doesn't get any  better, intelligent, exciting story telling.	2000-09-09
US	52486517	R2JR9UCFWGV23J	0226076180	916845565	Perception, Theory, and Commitment: The New Philosophy of Science	Books	4	16	17	N	N	I have not seen better on the subject	This book provides a superb critique of the philosophies of logical  positivism and empiricism, which, arising from the solid logical structure  exemplified by Whitehead's and Russell's &quot;Principia Mathematica&quot;  attempted to put the philosophy of science on a firm footing in the sense  of absolute knowledge and truth. Whether this belief in absolute concepts  derives from a deep need inherent in the social structure of human beings  is not debated but it is nevertheless shown to be alien to the practise of  science itself. Proceeding through the history of science and presenting  many examples demonstrating his ideas Brown gives a very clear indication  of the &quot;new philosophy of science&quot; as it is understood today  through its history, its dialectical development (not in the Hegelian  sense) and epistomological presuppositions. Science is a continuous process  of research which attempts to form a coherent structure based on conceptual  theories which are studied through observations made on the concepts  inherent in the theories themselves. The rationality, objectivity and  legitimacy are approached through the examples of Aristotle's rational man  or &quot;man of practical wisdom&quot; and a reality independent of  theories about it is retained. The fallibility of this new approach is  countered by the fact that theories are based on presuppositions and that  any philosophy based on absolute ideas are themselves based on a  presupposition, in other words it is impossible to avoid a  presuppositionless view in the current understanding of the interaction  between man and reality. This new philosophy retains the basic idea that  theories are conceptual models of reality and that there exists a basic  divide between man and nature, this is to some degree diluted by the  involvement of the scientist him/herself in the creation of science thereby  avoiding the attempt to replace the participation of the scientist by an  algorithm. Brown avoids the objections of Hume, Kant and Popper and in the  last chapter brings together his thoughts on the new philosohpy of  science.<br />One feels that this last chapter is merely a starting point for  the further elucidation of this philosophy. Brown also acknowledges rather  intuitively the possible need for a new epistimology and looks at the  strongly unscientific dictatorship of Lysenko and the vicious ignorant  attacks on the ideas of Veilkovsky thereby bringing out the very human  traits of scientists and so reminding us of the need for  vigilance.<br />Brown's book is an academic treatise and not designed for the  reader simply reading for pleasure, his arguments are well thought out and  his insights well developed. He has studied the archetypal texts on the  matter such as Hanson's, Popper's and Kuhn's deeply and one feels that this  book is about as clear and as good an exposition one could get for the new  philosophy of science. In many ways this book could be interpreted as a  launching pad for a totally new epistomology of science such as that of  Goethean science or phenomenology. While the book is exacting and precise  it is at times dry but makes up for this in the second part and the last  chapter. I have not seen better on the subject.	2000-09-06
US	52486517	R20QA9UYNE54QG	0195130820	130060900	Impossibility: The Limits of Science and the Science of Limits	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A fascinating journey through the science of limits	This is an interesting book and presents some issues which were unfamiliar  to me. I had heard of most of the arguments before but some were completely  refreshing especially those concerning Goedel, the Arrow Impossibility  theorem and Donald McKay. Like some of the other reviewers I found the book  to be a little muddled in terms of making clear points in each chapter but  overall it was good. I would have been interested if Barrow had looked at  some other ways of looking at the world such as Goethean science, unlike  Kant, which notes that it is possible to truly experience what is real, or  the approach of intuition  which Goedel himself notes &quot;I don't see any  reason why we should have less confidence in this kind of perception, ie  mathematical intuition ...&quot; or for that matter the logical approach  first created by Spencer Brown in his &quot;Laws of Form&quot;. There are  times when much is assumed which of course is not unexpected since Barrow  is a hard scientist who stays well within the expected bounds of science.  It is good to see the text interspersed with humorous asides such as those  of Douglas Adams and many others. All in all a fascinating journey through  the (normal) science of limits.	2000-08-28
US	52486517	R2PFD4WL3VXUIR	0195130820	130060900	Impossibility: The Limits of Science and the Science of Limits	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A fascinating journey through the science of limits	This is an interesting book and presents some issues which were unfamiliar  to me. I had heard of most of the arguments before but some were completely  refreshing especially those concerning Goedel, the Arrow Impossibility  theorem and Donald McKay. Like some of the other reviewers I found the book  to be a little muddled in terms of making clear points in each chapter but  overall it was good. I would have been interested if Barrow had looked at  some other ways of looking at the world such as Goethean science, unlike  Kant, which notes that it is possible to truly experience what is real, or  the approach of intuition  which Goedel himself notes &quot;I don't see any  reason why we should have less confidence in this kind of perception, ie  mathematical intuition ...&quot; or for that matter the logical approach  first created by Spencer Brown in his &quot;Laws of Form&quot;. There are  times when much is assumed which of course is not unexpected since Barrow  is a hard scientist who stays well within the expected bounds of science.  It is good to see the text interspersed with humorous asides such as those  of Douglas Adams and many others. As usual Barrow has done his research in  the accepted areas very well being thorough and at times insightful. All in  all a fascinating journey through the (normal) science of limits.	2000-08-28
US	52486517	R1LW84UVW6N2VJ	081956205X	864228216	Saving the Appearances: A Study in Idolatry	Books	3	33	42	N	N	fascinating account of the history of world views	I felt that Barfield made some very good, interesting, arguments  especially concerning the &quot;views of the world&quot; as they existed  prior to our own in history, the structure of language, the meaning of  religion, philosophy and the ideas of participation  which he expounded  throughout the book.<br />I also had some difficulty in following some of the  concepts, Barfield appeared to write in an old style no doubt due to his  classical education, the book being written in the earlier half of the 20th  century. I felt some elucidation of his concepts such as &quot;the  unrepresented&quot;, &quot;alpha-thinking&quot; etc could have been deeper  and more fully described. His ideas of collective representaion is sound  athough it is certainly his deep thinking about the way people thought  about the world or what the world meant to them which are the highlights of  the book. He very correctly criticises the &quot;normal&quot; approach  taken when talking about ancient or older literature/writing. It is pointed  out that the &quot;obvious&quot; world view now popular is not necessarily  that practised in earlier times, even the way a text must be  interpreted/seen is a context dependent activity, where, by context we mean  the world view present at the time; such as how a person of the middle ages  saw the physical aspects of the world eg a stone faling, a bird flying etc.  For these arguments alone the book should be commended. The idea relating  to participation is also relevant especially the divisions of original and  final participation and the &quot;scientific age&quot; in between. Barfield  does not merely accept the popularly held belief the ancients had it all  wrong but rather looks at why the ancients thought the way they did, they  were human beings like us and ceratinly not unintelligent as the writings  of Aristotle, Plato, St Augustine, Giordano Bruno etc etc  demonstrate.<br />There is much that is commendable in Saving the  Appearances&quot;, farmore than is not, but given the comments above one  does feel that Barfield leads up to a way of thought he considers correct  or more correct than any other through his own subjective beliefs which  appear to colour the development of his ideas mainly near the end of the  book. In other words although everyone has such a way of looking at the  world to some degree, Barfield appears to bring it to the fore as a seeming  be all and end all and a view not extendable or changable into something  better. In this way one progresses through the book from an enlightened  stance in the criticism and then the development of his own ideas to an  almost Catholic worldview which superficially appears the culmination of  the earlier development but is in fact an addendum to the truly original  ideas mentioned earlier.  <br />Very good investigation into the history of  world views.	2000-08-22
US	52486517	R1IWQO60XMJKRO	0770510434	363970539	Wilderness man: The strange story of Grey Owl	Books	3	0	1	N	N	fascinating story of Grey Owl	The fascinating story of Archie Belaney who later called himself Grey Owl and lived his life as a Canadian Indian. Although he was born in England  and raised by his aunts he came, eventually to believe himself Indian not  only as a child but later as an adult adopting the customs, speaking the  language and living the life until I believe he no longer saw the  difference. When, after having written some soul stirring books on life in  the wilderness he was invited on a book and lecture tour in the early 20th  century he complied unwillingly and traveled all over England and parts of  Europe and gave remarkable talks which were loved by all. As usually  happens his story was found out, he had never claimed to be other than  Indian, and he was ridiculed. Having always been somehwat of an alcaholic  his life fell apart and he died relatively young. He appeared a lonely man  even when married and never seemed to be able to come out of himself except  possibly when telling stories and his feelings towards his wife and  animals. He was one of the first to publicise the plight of the natural  world under the tyranical gaze of modern industrial society. A fascinating  man and it makes one want to experience the feeling and sense of nature he  so obviously had. Too bad most of his books are now out of print.  Definitely worth reading.	2000-08-16
US	52486517	R311C3XVZXQGU	0770510434	363970539	Wilderness man: The strange story of Grey Owl	Books	4	2	3	N	N	fascinating story of Grey Owl	The fascinating story of Archie Belaney who later called himself Grey Owl and lived his life as a Canadian Indian. Although he was born in England  and raised by his aunts he came, eventually to believe himself Indian not  only as a child but later as an adult adopting the customs, speaking the  language and living the life until I believe he no longer saw the  difference. When, after having written some soul stirring books on life in  the wilderness he was invited on a book and lecture tour in the early 20th  century he complied unwillingly and traveled all over England and parts of  Europe and gave remarkable talks which were loved by all. As usually  happens his story was found out, he had never claimed to be other than  Indian, and he was ridiculed. Having always been somehwat of an alcaholic  his life fell apart and he died relatively young. He appeared a lonely man  even when married and never seemed to be able to come out of himself except  possibly when telling stories and his feelings towards his wife and  animals. He was one of the first to publicise the plight of the natural  world under the tyranical gaze of modern industrial society. A fascinating  man and it makes one want to experience the feeling and sense of nature he  so obviously had. Too bad most of his books are now out of print.  Definitely worth reading.	2000-08-16
US	52486517	R1A0YTHMYVTPUZ	4770023855	480947155	Zen Masters: A Maverick, a Master of Masters, and a Wandering Poet	Books	5	12	23	N	N	Try ? Why not ?	Stories of the masters can be both inspiring and lead to sloth, sloth you say ? How is this ? The inspiration part is easy the stories of their lives  are often so hard and troublesome that it is easy to consider them  remarkable men which they of course were, but on the other hand two things  stand in your way one is the praise of remarkable men, the other is the  recognition of some of their qualities inside yourself, both of these  delusions interfere with proper practice. In fact the non-reading of just  about anything is the best way to go because truth is present everywhere at  all times and it is nowhere apart from here where you stand right now.  Given these comments this book can  be a useful ally for practice as long  as it is read and forgotten ie the important aspects will be used when  needed and that is all. It sounds good but can a person do such things  easily, well not so easily. Try ? Why not ?	2000-08-16
US	52486517	R1ZQRL9SWNQ5N5	0722535341	186709998	The Memory of Water: Homoeopathy and the Battle of Ideas in the New Science	Books	4	24	34	N	N	Another nail in the coffin of the spirit of discovery	&quot;The Memory of Water&quot; is not so much about homeopathy but rather  about  the possibility of water having the ability to store information in  some way. The research of Jacques Benveniste was set up to look into this  question. I hear you say : no problem sounds like a good idea since some  people have said that this is possible, specifically those practising  hemeopathy (and for that matter electronic acupuncture which is practised  with electrodes and vials containing the active substances which are  dissolved in water). Further it seems that science being a profession  supposedly designed to investigate nature in all its forms should jump at  the opportunity. Just the contrary occurred, Benveniste almost lost his  job, he lost his funding, his labs were closed down and ridicule followed  even though he had a long standing reputation as a diligent and exacting  scientist. In other words the message was : don't study things which the  greater scientific community considers taboo no matter how much evidence  appears to demonstrate some phenomenon or even the benefits which might  follow.   Into this climate Schiff has written a book explaining the  progress of both the research into the memory of water and the consequences  suffered by Benveniste's and his co-workers from the scientific  establishment.<br />The book starts by looking into the possibility that  molecules can send information electromagnetically through water inside the  cell. Certainly not a ridiculous possibility since electric potentials  exist within the cell and as such so must electric and magnetic fields,  this is not denied by conventional science but the possibility that  electromagnetic signalling occurs, is. The book goes on to describe briefly  the coherent domains approach developed by Giuliano Preparata and Emilio  Del Giudice two eminent physicists who proposed a way for millions of  molecules to act coherently and allow EM signalling. <br />The book then  continues with the techniques used to investigate the potency of  homeopathic dilutions which have been diluted until not even one molecule  of the active substance remains and yet the dilution is still active. Lots  of detail is gone into discussing the materials used and their  applicability. <br />Further chapters describe the reactions to the research  where some scientists/organisations have used quite vitriolic language to  discredit the work, this is concluded by the visitation to Benveniste's lab  of James Randi and his &quot;team&quot; of debunkers. The lengths that the  establishment will go to to protect its security is astonishing.<br />I felt  that, given the report of Schiff, Benveniste's work was very well conducted  with exacting detail and all stops were pulled out to ensure correct  procedure, similarly one finds that a person of Benveniste's reputation and  well known quality as a scientists should never have been under question.  However I woud have liked far more interesting information on the  properties of such research, but then the book was written to clear the air  surrounding the research and its viability. Benveniste is now working at a  research institute set up by benefactors and he is fully investigating the  properties of water and its medical applications. A timely book to remind  everyone of the consequences of upsetting the status quo.	2000-08-15
US	52486517	RVMWQM4VCHW1B	0940262452	472572239	Matter and Mind: Imaginative Participation in Science (Anomalies)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	conscious participation as a new approach to science	This book concerning the mechanistic paradigm so prevalent in science  today and for the last 200 years or so is something which reminds one that  life is not just a congregation of characters or a genetic reproducer ie a  machine but rather something far more interesting and vibrant. The old  mechanistic paradigm is in its last throes as the combined weight of  relativity, quantum mechanics, new biological insights such as Goethean  science, the ideas of wholeness, complexity theory etc etc forcfully remind  one of the creativity not only of the human mind but all of nature. Is this  so new ? Of course not, new ideas have appeared all throughout history but  it is the mechanical way of thinking which confines the human being ie  his/her own thinking is the culprit and this of course is then  automatically supported by the construction of ideas or the manipulation of  creative new ideas into mechanical form. As a good friend of mine says  &quot;the machine is taking over&quot;. The mechanical way of thought has  gone so far as to allow the creation of a machine society he would say. Is  this so far from the truth ? Maybe not, but there are ways to elude this  process. The person's own mind can achieve it. Edelglass, Maier, Gebert and  Davy propose to do just this.<br />The book has probably one of the best  introductions I've seen, when it discusses how mechanistic science would  describe the human smile as : &quot;a widening of the oral aperture, caused  by the contractions of the cheek musculature&quot;, in other words such a  science could not possibly hope to understand the &quot;warmth&quot; of a  greeting or the &quot;gladness&quot; associated with it. It basically  dehumanises the human experience. This book attempts at least to find a way  to alleviate this situation through understanding how such a science came  about and how to avoid this dehumanising approach without loosing  objectivity. They discuss the senses used in scientific investigation  noting especially that the sense of touch is most prevalent although many  other senses exist other than the known 5 eg kinesthetic sense : awareness  of our body, somatic sense : sense of well being of our body, sense of  balance. It is the apparent separateness of the sense of touch which seems  to create in the mind the idea that everything in reality is separate and  made of parts. Piaget has shown such a learning takes place in small  children and also gives rise to a construction of the self separate from  everything else, people and nature. The book describes Galileos ideas of  primary and secondary properties constructed through his own studies of  phenomena such as the components of velocity in the moving object,  periodicity of pendula etc, Descarte's &quot;Cogito Ergo Sum&quot; is  discussed as well as the devlopment of the new science through the scholar  and the craftsman, the enigma of quantum reality and the ideas of conscious  participation of Goethe. In other words can the whole human being be used  to understand a phenomenon ? Does it make sense without the loss of  objectivity ? They believe it is possible to avoid the machine-like aspects  of &quot;normal science&quot;. They give examples of such attempts eg Brian  Goodwin, Jochen Bockemuehl and finally conceive of a science which  expresses the whole in all its subtlety and as such evoke a new way of  living itself, the mind, the body are now not separate things but all part  of a whole. Part looses its separation and can only be defined through the  whole.<br />The book is a wonderful read being only short, 136 pages and can  easily lead one to further interest in such ideas. Its well thought out  without the annoying speculative reaches into insubstantial ideas which is  the usual approach when objecting to current scientific dogma. Highly  recommended for the scientist and layman alike although scientific concepts  mentioned can confuse someone completely unfamiliar with them.	2000-08-15
US	52486517	R2EC3K3FBPOP49	0738201715	422244534	Lamarck's Signature : How Retrogenes Are Changing Darwin's Natural Selection Paradigm (Helix Books Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	yet another surprise from nature	A book requiring remarckable courage in the orthodox scientific climate of today, given that Darwinian evolution is generally accepted and most views  contrary are considered virtual heresy. The possibility of the passing on  of acquired characteristics from a parent to an offspring was first  proposed by Lamarck some 200 years ago. This new book suggests from  experimental evidence gathered over decades that it is possible for immune  functions to be passed from parent to offspring this prceeds via  retroviruses being able to infect sex cells such as sperm and ovum.  Certainly not an unreasonable possibility and given the strong evidence  shown in the book not to be passed over lightly.   Although the technical  details of the biochemistry involved are at times heavy going the authors  attempt to alleviate this through a useful glossary and explanations when  necessary. Not easy to follow but worth the effort. The book certainly asks  some major questions of accepted dogma.<br />Once again this book highlights  that just when the accepted authorities are fixed and comfortable in their  domain along comes something to surprise them and everyone, nature just  can't stop being creative and interesting can it.	2000-08-09
US	52486517	R1BYCRAQWIJHAT	0387983074	533880576	Introductory Functional Analysis: With Applications to Boundary Value Problems and Finite Elements (Texts in Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	superb introduction to Functional analysis	Daya Reddy has produced a new edition of an older text which now has some  extra material and has improved the explanations of the earlier edition as  well as include many useful diagrams.  This is an excellent introduction to  Functional Analysis avoiding the often seen theorem/proof approach which  overwhelms students who are not literate in the mathematics. All concepts  are very well explained and demonstrated, the progression is slow and  careful so as not to disallusion students who are not pure mathematicians.  Even for mathematicians this is a good, gentle introduction. When I first  saw the earlier edition in the library I was captivated by the style and  ease of development so I emailed Professor Reddy and asked about a new  edition, the preprint of which he sent me to peruse, I then later bought  the new one as it came out. The beauty and power of functional analysis is  also evident<br />Well worth buying so you don't get lost in the none too  simple mathematics of functional analysis.	2000-08-09
US	52486517	R18NDR1QQFA48T	0691043477	177369374	Scientific Studies (Goethe: The Collected Works, Vol. 12)	Books	3	11	24	N	N	A good reference guide and introduction	The book by Miller comprises a collection of Goethe's scientific writings  over his entire life selecting the major works and leaving more detailed  renderings to other texts such as Berta Mueller's &quot;Goethe's Botanical  Writings&quot;, or Amrine's &quot;Goethe in the History of Science&quot;.  The book ranges over physics, botanical investigations, animal structure,  human intermaxiallary bone, meteorology, geology and also some essays on  the process of scientific investigation itself.<br />Goethe's writings are  subtle, especially his essays and I feel that the translation may have been  better from the original German which I mean to obtain (being able to read  German has its advantages). Of course this judgement could well be  premature since I have not read the original as yet. This does not take  away from the book which is a good reference text for a broad  outline.<br />Well worth getting when looking at Goethe's works and approach  to science.	2000-08-08
US	52486517	R96QYW38EARQQ	0890062382	893138748	The Scattering of Electromagnetic Waves from Rough Surfaces (Artech House Radar Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A very good introduction to EM Scattering	An introduction to electromagnetic rough surface scattering in the high  frequency domain. Its an old text and there are numerous errors in printing  as I found out when using it for research work, but nonetheless a good  introduction, its clear and not too advanced in contrast to other texts  which seem to thrive on jumping into difficult analysis without  preparation. It covers many areas in rough surface scattering and uses both  analytic functions for the surface and later a random function approach.  The random function approach has now become standard and misses some of the  interesting aspects and details in the earlier one eg fractal surfaces etc.  <br />The book after introducing the characteristic aspects of EM scattering  then proceeds onto practical engineering aspects such as remote sensing and  the like. This was of course brand new at the time, 1963. For a modern  review see the book by J.A. Ogilvy &quot;Theory of Wave Scattering from  Random Rough Surfaces&quot; which covers the new approaches to the subject  since the 60's.<br />Still an excellent book for the basics of EM scattering  although one has to work through some of the results to be certain they are  correct.	2000-08-08
US	52486517	R31OP4WHEH2S25	0880100885	832040119	The Rediscovery of Color: Goethe Versus Newton Today/Book and Plates	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A practical guide to Goethe's colour investigations	The great German poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe was also an enthusiastic  amateur scientist saying that of all his work he considered his scientific  work to be the most important. This is no trivial matter considering the  great works of prose and poetry Goethe produced eg Faust, Erlkoenig etc  etc. <br />Probably the most well developed of his scientific investigations  is his book on colour theory which studied many aspects of the formation of  colours. Proskauer in this book reviews and also extends some of Goethe's  work on colour as well as allowing the reader to experience the phenomena  first hand through a small prism attached to the book with special cards to  serve as &quot;light/dark&quot; sources. <br />The book starts with an  introduction to Goethe's work which contradicts Newton's theories such as  the notion that ordinary &quot;white&quot; light is constructed from a  combination of the colours and that the prism separates the colours already  present in it. Proskauer demonstrates that the spectrum observed by the  prism is in fact a construction which arises due to two distinct spectra  overlapping and that a spectrum is noticed only in the presence of a  light/dark boundary. Further fascinating aspects are disclosed and provide  a strong argument for a scientific approach akin to Goethe's. The colour  phenomenon is observed without abstraction used to construct a colour  theory.<br />These are the good aspects of the work, however the writing is at  times speculative and goes counter to Goethe's original approach to  &quot;never leaving the phenomenon&quot;. Somehow it never quite convinces  but nonetheless it certainly wakes up the mind from the mechanistic slumber  of ordinary science. Perhaps a deeper approach would remove some of these  problems. <br />A good book with great potential.	2000-08-08
US	52486517	RVG76JDSAWHX9	1857021886	881366334	Forbidden Science: Suppressed Research That Could Change Our Lives	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An essential read for scientists	There is no doubt some areas of research are to some degree taboo, I mean,  not even looked at because it is considered too far from the mainstream or  too &quot;way out&quot; in the sense of UFO cults or seances. Any  &quot;self-respecting&quot; scientist would not dare to discuss such things  seriously with other scientists or in public. What do I include in such  &quot;pseudo-science&quot; ? Well we don't even have to leave the  mainstream to do so, the research carried out by Jacques Benveniste comes  to mind, a thoroughly and deeply investigated area on the possibility of  water carrying some sort of memory, not only has this been shown to have  theoretical support apart from the conclusive experimental evidence but it  has simply been taken as the work of a charlatan or cheat because it could  not possibly be &quot;right&quot;, as another example, a scientist whose  name I won't use to ensure his privacy, has developed a theory in physics  which is not considered because it is not following the approaches of other  scientists and so must be wrong. Science and also mathematics is full of  this sort of negative, and lets put a fine point on it, unscientific  opinions. In other words these rejections of the new are just that a  rejection of anything new which either may show the reviewer's own work may  be faulty, out of date or his group is no longer safe and secure, whether  this means job security or just the security related to the self image. Is  this scientific ?  Unfortunately the academic comunity is still full of  power play and little empires no matter how trivial just so the egos are  boosted and they are safe in their little world. Am I being too harsh ?  Well it may be so but I have experienced enough of this sort of thing to  say that at times this is true. What happened to the spirit of scientific  discovery which, as can be seen from history, continuously has to either  battle the status quo or wait until the opposition are dead ? Milton in  thistimely book talks about these very problems still present in science,  in no way does he carry on with dubious arguments which flog their own  horses eg Creation Science but rather investigates an area thoroughly and  asks some important questions, much as Feyerabend has done in his work  although the topic concerns the basis of science rather than any research  studied, I think he may have been able to get away with this more than  scientists actually working in new areas because it concerns the philosophy  of science and as such is comfortably removed from &quot;the truth&quot;  which is supposed to be represented  by orthodox science.  So, Milton has  produced an essential read for scientists and non-scientists which  hopefully will have the courage to support their fellow scientists in such  endeavours.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R17W6H0R3I4FH7	089281537X	949567629	The Presence of the Past: Morphic Resonance and the Habits of Nature	Books	3	54	64	N	N	good ideas more development needed	Sheldrake's original idea expounded in his earlier : &quot;A New Science of Life&quot; is further investigated here, I say investigated rather than  developed because he seems to have taken a step back towards the view of  the science he purports to have surpassed. The idea of morphic resonance is  very interesting indeed, however the use of the field concept is much the  same as the fields proposed in physics. One feels Sheldrake is making use  of such devices because a new idea is not at hand whereas a truly new  approach would revitalise this idea of morphic resonance and perhaps  consider the whole rather than a piecemeal approach such as fields which  act like pieces, the common use prevalent in physics with the possible  exception of quantum theory. <br />In this aspect I agree with the previous  reviewer but on the other hand there are some really fascinating ideas  present, the basic one being morphic resonance, and the habits of nature.  There certainly is a fair bit of experimental evidence to support at least  a deeper investigation of these ideas rather than the usual  &quot;crank&quot; reaction of mainstream science which of course considers  it heresy. Crucial to such an investigation would be a device capable of  measuring this &quot;field&quot; or at least the effect on the formation of  structures such as crystals which Sheldrake notes should provide an  interesting test of his ideas.<br />I believe Sheldrake does not take enough  care to avoid a certain feeling of uncertainty and even at times a sense  that there is something not quite solid about the reasoning. I also believe  this was not his intention and that his ideas have great worth and deserve  the most serious consideration.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R1WJDY0VOCX5IF	0863152376	269147048	Goethe on Science: An Anthology of Goethe's Scientific Writings	Books	5	21	21	N	N	wonderful little book on Goethean science	A wonderful little book maybe to accompany the far more developed one by  Henri Bortoft, &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot;. It takes many excerpts  from Goethe's approach to science and includes some of his major essays in  the area. If you want a starter in this subject buy it if you want real  understanding in depth get Bortoft's book. <br />The book considers many  aspects such plant metamorphosis, colour theory, the concept of the  archetype and even some of Goethe's own thoughts on the philosophy of  science. There are even pieces which I've seen nowhere else such as the  eras of science, merely pointed out but not elaborated upon. In this way  the book grabs your attention and doesn't let go, it was my second  introduction after Bortoft's having been recommended by him and it is well  worth it.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R2VY2WH0BGANOP	0940262932	46575339	Thinking beyond Darwin: The Idea of Living Form as a Key to Vertebrate Evolution (Renewal in Science)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Goethean science in the animal world	Ernst Michael Kranich has written an interesting book on the possibility  of evolution without necessarily having to be of the Darwinian type. Even  though his work is predated in the main by Wolfgang Schad (Man and Mammals)  who also provides a far deeper analysis, it does add some new aspects to  Goethean science.<br />Goeathen science or in other words the way of science  developed by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (the famous German poet) is  different in the sense that it stays with the phenomenon rather than going  outside of it. Goethe stresses this by statements such as &quot;the  phenomenon is already theory&quot; using the Greek meaning of theory rather  than the modern meaning which almost dissociates itself from the phenomenon  under question. As such this approach is purely objective in the true sense  of scientific, to get an idea of the full aspects of such a science in a  very clear and methodical way devoid of speculation read the book by Henri  Bortoft, The Wholeness of Nature, which can expand on this idea.<br />Kranich  uses the Goethean approach to look carefully at the animal world and its  developments such as horses skeletons and the organ arrangement in mammals,  the important aspect is that he brings out the wholeness of the animal in  question rather than an analysis of each part. The animal is seen whole  rather than constructed of parts. For example does the word arm or hand  having any meaning when abstracted from the body it is connected to, and so  too for the organs and structure of the animal. This approach of Kranich is  both satisfactory in a very human way and yet does not sacrifice scientific  rigour. <br />Given the comments above I must note that not all of the book  was as well written as I would have liked, its possible the translation  from the German was not the best perhaps because of the concepts used in  German which may have had untranslatable aspects. But I also felt that at  times the science was on shaky ground never feeling quite secure in  Kranich's argument and always feeling that either there was more to do to  make one really believe it or that the opposing arguments from accepted  science could not be fully dealt with.<br />Nonetheless a satisfying book and  a good lead into Goethean approaches to science.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R2DNU2SFTCWV83	9623616236	220899097	Ancient Celts	Books	4	3	5	N	N	excellent as always	The third in the series of Concord Publications dealing with ancient  warrors. As in the other two books : &quot;Imperial Rome at War&quot; and  &quot;Barbarians&quot; it covers the history of the Celts right from the  ancient Latene period up to Viking times, superb illustrations by McBride  as always and an entertaining text by Newark who doesn't shirk from  responsibilities. Still not as good as the really good Roman one but  nonetheless illuminating on some points not covered by your average history  text and the amazing action pictures rather than just simple illustrations  without any context.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R1XBIKHSL7NF1I	0863152376	269147048	Goethe on Science: An Anthology of Goethe's Scientific Writings	Books	5	8	10	N	N	wonderful little book on Goethean science	A wonderful little book maybe to accompany the far more developed one by  Henri Bortoft, &quot;The Wholeness of Nature&quot;. It takes many excerpts  from Goethe's approach to science and includes some of his major essays in  the area. If you want a starter in this subject buy it if you want real  understanding in depth get Bortoft's book. <br />The book considers many  aspects such plant metamorphosis, colour theory, the concept of the  archetype and even some of Goethe's own thoughts on the philosophy of  science. There are even pieces which I've seen nowhere else such as the  eras of science, merely pointed out but not elaborated upon. In this way  the book grabs your attention and doesn't let go, it was my second  introduction after Bortoft's having been recommended by him and it is well  worth it.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R20MFHQEPSBB0N	0684832577	21509477	The Unconscious Civilization	Books	4	4	4	N	N	rage against the machine	One might say this book is a cut down version of Ralston-Saul's other main  book : &quot;Voltaire's Bastards&quot; which being far more in depth and  somewhat more complex is maybe not as accessible/readable as this smaller  one. <br />I saw his Massey Lectures which were broadcast on TV here in  Australia and it does show Saul's rather brilliant mind, brilliant mind  you, not genius. Saul is exceptionally well versed in his field and the  phrase &quot;rage against the machine&quot; comes to mind in describing his  polemic against the corporatisation of the world today. I disagree with  another reviewer who noted that this had always been so, well not so long  ago (20-30 years) it was not unknown for even the employees of a large  corporation to enjoy their job in other words believe in it and in the  rights of the customer this has sadly changed over the intervening years  when somehow the philosophy of rationalisation, corporatisation, greed call  it what you will has consumed much of the world's population. This is  driven wholeheartedly by corporate interests who as Saul correctly points  out could never hope to run a country given the very selfish aims to make a  profit. So the vague ambitions of some to let business run a country are  hopeless if they wish to put the best interests of people first. A  corporation can never do this. Similarly Saul points out that its not  business that leads to social wealth but rather a social system which acts  in dis-interest as opposed to the interest of corporations. <br />Maybe it is  books such as these or lectures and a combination of other factors which  quashed the complete globalisation of the Third World in Seattle recently.  As such it is a good thing, the people must always come first when  government acts. Yes of course business interests are all well and good in  their own sphere but they should never interfere with the social health of  a country, or in this case the world's, people.<br />Saul extracts some good  advice regarding the problems of today such as the taxes paid by major  corporations which 30 years ago made up 48% of the entire tax income of  western governments, this is now down to 5% ,a woeful state of affairs and  the reason why education and health care are no longer a right of every  person but rather are becoming more and more accessible to the ones who can  pay. Saul recommends that all corporations should pay a basic tax rate of  30% as is being attempted in the European union, this requires  international agreements and as such these are a good thing in bringing  prosperity (hopefully) to many.<br />Saul at first seems to advise the use of  purely economic solutions to economic problems when in fact, deep down and  not often noticed, the problem is one of the state of mind of the average  person who himself IS society rather than being controlled/reacting or just  living in it. He then looks at this issue to some degree as well,  recommending participation in local affairs to get the citizen once more  the controller of his own life as it once must have been, to some degree,  in Athens when democracy was first implemented. <br />An excellent book which  can truly make some changes if it is taken seriously and courageously.	2000-08-07
US	52486517	R10JMXI14GOJEJ	9623616341	170524300	Barbarians (Concord Fighting Men 6000)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	a great accompanying volume to Imperial Rome at War	A wonderful book full of great illustrations by Angus McBride and  fascinating side stories by Tim Newark. Much in the same vein as the  earlier &quot;Imperial Rome at War&quot;, this book is in a series which  hopefully will extend to many different genre's and expand upon the given  ones. Although not as good as the Roman one its very good involving  exceptional historical detail and great atmospheric scenes from the history  of barbarians, the so-called foreigners using a term coined from the Greek.  The book covers these &quot;barbarians&quot; right from the ancient Celts  up to the early middle ages concerning itself with Celtic, Germanic and  Slavic tribes as well as Turkic tribes such as the Huns. Great for  wargamers, modellers and readers of the fascinating earmarks of history.	2000-08-06
US	52486517	RIPNFUVXMI6EJ	0940262487	515065094	The Logos-Structure of the World: Language As Model of Reality (Anomalies)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Goethe's insights deepened and elucidated	Georg Kuehlewind an avid scholar of Goethe and Rudolf Steiner expounds his  ideas regarding language and reality, is there a language akin to the human  one but spoken by the world, trees, animals, plants, rocks, the whole  universe ? Kuehlewind says that there is and that the human being can  &quot;read&quot; this &quot;book&quot; of nature. This language is very  subtle and the person must wake in him/herself the organ of perception  waiting inside of him/her to speak this language.<br />Although on first  reading this book is difficult and is written in a way not easily followed,  upon my second reading I think the concepts had had time to digest and it  became far easier to follow the text. One does feel that, no matter how  much is said of this language or the ability to read or speak it, an  ordinary language such as English with its strong noun based structure,  resulting in a static kind of thought, does not completely allow the free  flow of Kuehlewind's ideas. I feel there are two options available to  resolve this problem, either use another language which expresses movement  as true movement rather than composed of non-moving parts, eg Eskimo or  Blackfoot Indian, or use this language of nature itself to describe such  ideas, this is often expressed as a sense from mind to mind or if writing  is used at all through contradictory or paradoxical statements such as Zen  koans which break the habitual thought cycle of ordinary language.<br />A  remarkable book which both deepens and elucidates Goethe's original  insights with input from Steiner.	2000-08-06
US	52486517	RV93GCKNLUDIY	0691026165	453448021	Life in Moving Fluids: The Physical Biology of Flow (Princeton Paperbacks)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A good introductory text	A good introduction to aspects of fluid dynamics among living creatures  such as plants and animals. Generally the book covers the material well  with good explanations although I found that at times the concepts  demonstrated were very well explained and at others not so well. Some of  these fluid dynamical ideas are quite non-intuitive and I feel that a  course covering this material really requires experiments to give the  student a feel for the movements inherent in fluids and the various forces  which act to produce the types of drag or filter feeding etc. Naturally  such a course could use this book as a theoretical introduction along with  maybe some sort of lab manual accompanying it. I did feel that it would  have been good to have this together in one text rather than spread over  two or more. Having said this I must note that this book is probably not  intended in this way and possibly fits into the niche left open by the gap  between a serious student text and an introduction which can be read purely  for interest's sake as I did. It accomplished this second task quite well  maintaining interest even though it dealt in mechanical laws and left out  much of the biology, which would, if not directly, have added to the  explanation offered yet, provide a link both as a source of the physics and  as a means to connect the now separate streams of physics and biology,  which is unfortunately nowadays always considered as completely  disconnected. Darcy Thomson would have been dismayed at this process.  Nonetheless some very beautiful drawings accompany the book and provide  much needed sense of the plant and animal world. Altogether a fine  introduction.	2000-08-06
US	52486517	R8RUN5FIDVHGV	0312205511	724985102	Ice Station	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Pure unadulterated fun	The phrase &quot;rollicking yarn&quot; seems to have been defined  preternatuarlly to describe this book based on the attempt by world  governments to obtain the technology hidden inside a possible spaceship  buried deep inside the ice sheets of Antarctica. The action just does not  let up and the book is just impossible to put down, it can easily be read  in one day given the frenetic action sequences even though it is 384 pages  long, such is its enjoyment. Pure unadulterated fun. I agree wholeheartedly  with one reviewer who noted that even with its inaccuracies this book is  meant to be simply enjoyed to the max with nothing held back. It does this  very well indeed and would make or rather redefine the action blockbuster  if made into a movie. Why this hasn't already been done is a mystery given  that its success is just about guaranteed.	2000-08-06
US	52486517	R2UFGO44M69W9L	1882496108	200171160	There Is Only Now - A Simple Guide to Spiritual Awakening, Unconditional Love, Liberation and Transformation	Books	5	85	90	N	N	it is only a breath away	I would have liked to have left out a rate in recomending this book because it simply is beyond rating. This book captures with no effort what  needs to be said on living this life now. What does this mean ? As usual  such a thing encompasses what a master of Zen archery once called &quot;the  great all&quot; (Eugen Herrigel, Zen in the Art of Archery) and Morrison  shoots &quot;spiritually&quot; ie the words fall from a tree as ripe fruit  do all by themselves where else could great mastery come from than with no  effort and no thought. <br />In simple words without reference to any  religious ideas or beliefs, except when necessary to avoid confusion in  people's minds, Morrison outlines the basis of human problems and their  solution not as a method or a belief but as an ever creative act new at  every moment, the art of listening where the mind and body is no longer the  mind and body. This seemingly contradictory way of thinking frees up the  mind. But then Morrison somehow manages to illuminate with straightforwrd  words, simple sentences, nothing complex or convoluted. Anyone who is even  remotely paying attention will also feel how the book subtly enlightens you  of your burdens, one by one, anger disspiates, joy replaces it, the world  becomes fascinating whereas before it was just boring or &quot;the  same&quot;.<br />A book to read an excerpt from every day and use it to start  the day or to enter into meditation. Given the understandable frustration  and confusion felt by people when confronted by obscure or paradoxical  utterances of the masters it must be remembered that &quot;the way has no  name&quot; cannot be defined or boxed up in any way at all, it is always  being revealed and always present, Morrison just says look, there it is,  see it for yourself. Nobody said it would be easy and yet &quot;it is only  a breath away&quot;.	2000-08-06
US	52486517	R3CNU4CCBE8Z44	0262570211	360348876	Theory of Colours (MIT Press)	Books	4	132	142	N	N	A fascinating introduction to Goethean science	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, probably the greatest of Germany's poets, was  also an avid amateur scientist and displayed through his careful  observations and his keen, what might now be called phenomenological, mind  an ability to discern the depth of the phenomenon in question, in this case  the origin of colours. In direct contradiction to Newton whose theory of  colour formation, based on his earlier prism experiments and their  interpretation, was the accepted theory of the time in all scientific  circles and laymen alike, with one exception, that of painting and artistic  use of colour.<br />Goethe, being fascinated by the colours generated from the  prism conducted his own investigations and found to his great surprise that  Newton's theory was, if not incorrect, but rather mechanical in nature and  based on an &quot;interpretation&quot; of the phenomenon rather than the  truth as it stands. Goethe through his investigations into natural  phenomena gave rise to the idea of the archetypal phenomenon or  Ur-phenomenon, in this case meaning the movement or active form present in  the phenomenon which gives it its character rather than some static image  such as a Darwinian ancestor. Goethe noted that it is possible to actually  experience the fullness of the phenomenon ie the coming into being of the  colours themselves and that the human being can not only theorise in the  conventional sense of Kant but can in fact truly know the phenomenon as it  is. Contemporary science as it also was then does not acknowledge such a  possibility.<br />  The book is basically a written account of experiments  done by Goethe on the generation of colour in natural events and his own  experiments to bring to the fore the ground of all colour generation. It  displays great care in his observations and it gives a wide ranging  explanation of colour in the sciences, the arts such as painting and also  deals to some degree with the experience of colours in the physiological  domain.It is all encompassing in its attempt to understand the colour  phenomenon in all of its many incarnations. It is convincing in its  comprehension of colours and yet at times leaves one dissatisfied because  it lacks mathematical rigour or measurement that is characteristic of  science today. This habitual way of thinking present in scientists is  rather hard to dislodge even when the mind is open, the main reason for  this being the hard edged practicality of such an approach.<br />I would think  that Goethe's book can be looked at as an introduction to his way of doing  science and as a first attempt to fathom the real depth of the phenomenon  which is inherent in his approach and sorely lacking in &quot;normal&quot;  science. Naturally, this does not mean scientists themselves haven't used  similar approaches, the names of Faraday and his investigation of  electromagnetism and Heisenberg in his description of the limitation  induced by the scientific method to the investigation of natural processes,  come to mind. It is the cutting down of the original &quot;life&quot;  present in their investigations that is lacking today, perhaps a Goethean  approach can lead back to the intensification of science that is needed.	2000-08-05
US	52486517	R3LC3QRXTQ7QET	0192833200	403232355	Beowulf (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An epic Anglo-Saxon poem of ancient days	I was alerted to the existence of this epic poem through an animated version of it on TV one Sunday afternoon, not the usual cartoon-like  presentation but a wondrous dark expression akin to Ridley Scott direction  or the animation first used in the animated version of &quot;The Lord of  the Rings&quot;. This short feature was really quite superb and it gave me  the impetus to buy a copy of it in book form. Similarly, this translation  by Crossley-Howard is wonderful in all its epic proportions, the Grendel,  its mother and the struggle to defeat it. It is of course a heroic tale and  the hero Beowulf is certainly in the classic mold after all it was poetry  such as this and related tales eg The Illiad, Norse Sagas, to name just two  which originated the idea of the hero in present form. It must be  remembered that this is an Anglo-Saxon tale at or around the 6th Century AD  and as such based in Denmark or Sweden rather than England (named after  them of course). Strictly speaking it does not represent an aspect of  English history rather a representation of Scandinavian life of the time.  It may, as such, bear some resemblance to Norse sagas which were to yet to  come some 300 or 400 years later.  As a window on Anglo-Saxon life it does  reveal some aspects such as the character of men and women or rather how  they were supposed to be, similarly it shows that human affairs haven't  really changed that much since then and the commonly held belief that  ancient times were primitive in comparison to today are mistaken. All  aspects of human personality are present, such as greed, corruption, anger,  heroism, kindness and so on. A wonderful read if you are short on time.	2000-08-05
US	52486517	R3R3RHTJCMW0GE	0521347629	947410128	Aristotle: The Desire to Understand	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Very clear and fresh look at Aristotle's thought	A simply excellent book introducing the philosophy of Aristotle by  Jonathan Lear. Lear accesses the original ancient Greek and as such avoids  some of the errors which creep into accounts of ancient philosophy using a  contemporary mind-set. A very clear account of Aristotle's many works,  excerpts from the metaphysics, ethics and  others explaining the somewhat  difficult concepts in a fresh way that is free of extraneous interpretation  and captures Aristotle's own way of understanding, or at least as close as  seems possible given the intervening time.  Just when you thought a concept  had been understood along comes a new and invigorating idea to surprise you  as you proceed through the book. This is not a simple book, neither is it  intended to be. I would think it is just about Aristotelian thought and its  authentic meaning. Not only does it show the depth of his ideas but gives  you an insight into Aristotle's astonishing talents, his thought spanning  topics from ethics and politics to biology, it gives the impression that  the word polymath was created to describe Aristotle and that any coming  after him would try to approach his intellect and insight into the world.  The book demonstrates some of Aristotle's greatest solutions to the  challenges proposed by Plato's thought as well as Zeno. All in all an  exceptional book in the practise of Aristotle's philosophy. It is a pity  that the older book by Lear on Aristotelian Logic is now out of print,  hopefully this situation is only temporary.	2000-08-05
US	52486517	R3QUVRSYVXYS7R	0192833200	403232355	Beowulf (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An epic Anglo-Saxon poem of ancient days	I was alerted to the existence of this epic poem through an animated version of it on TV one Sunday afternoon, not the usual cartoon-like  presentation but a wondrous dark expression akin to Ridley Scott or the  animation first used in the animated version of &quot;The Lord of the  Rings&quot;. This short feature was really quite superb and it gave me the  impetus to buy a copy of it in book form. Similarly this translation by  Crossley-Howard is wonderful in all its epic proportions, the Grendel, its  mother and the struggle to defeat it. It is of course a heroic tale and the  hero Beowulf is certainly in the classic mold after all it was poetry such  as this and related tales eg The Iliad, Norse Sagas to name just two which  originated the idea of the hero in present form. It must be remembered that  this is an Anglo-Saxon tale at or around the 6th Century AD and as such  based in Denamrk or Sweden rather than England (named after them of  course). Strictly speaking it does not represent an aspect of English  history rather a representation of Scandinavian life of the time. It may as  such bear some resemblance to Norse sagas which were to yet to come some  300 or 400 years later.  As a window on Ango-Saxon ife it does reveal some  aspects such as the character of men and women or rather how they were  supposed to be, similarly it shows that human affairs haven't really  changed that much since then and the commonly held belief that ancient  times were primitive in compasrison to today are mistaken. All aspects of  human personality are present, such as greed, corruption, anger, heroism,  kindness and so on. A wonderful read given a short time available.	2000-08-05
US	52486517	R2YDQU21PFTYNW	0816516995	306715667	The Abstract Wild	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Wild is as wild does	At last a book which captures far better than anything I've seen in print  the real sense of &quot;wild&quot; not in the stagnant, sanitised way of  zoos or even of gardens but rather in the experience of real vulnerability  felt in the presence of something awe inspiring and possessing of an energy  which flows freely and powerfully when the human being just  &quot;lives&quot;. Inadvertently Turner expresses the same thoughts often  stated by others such as David Bohm : ever creative nature, the  holomovement, David Abram : spell of the sensuous and it reminds one at  times of the silent activity so easily perceived in Haiku poetry. His  experience at first seeing Indian rock paintings holds the mind with its  strength and vitality, especially so when he notices his own very human  qualities as the energy of that moment seems to fade thereby expressing the  need of the person to experience each moment as new rather than as a  memory. Similarly the very personal experience of being hunted by a  mountain lion is not lost on anyone who even vaguely remembers what it was  to be alive, say as a child or the sudden and unexpected feelings of  &quot;how good it is to be alive&quot; that would assult one at times in  his/her life. Unfortunately these things are rare and only vague memories  for most of us. As such Turner awakens this in us again and the desire to  feel as a human being once more.	2000-08-04
US	52486517	R3DZS0Q4FYKO5M	0375705090	370416870	Zen in the Art of Archery	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Zen as it is in doing	The task Professor Herrigel set himself was to experience true Zen, he did  this without realising that abandonment of self was a primary objective. In  other words the pratice or the decision to undertake anything very much is  a step into the unknown even when the person involved never considers the  possibility of his very self undergoing radical change, somehow one  believes &quot;I&quot; will always remain afterwards. Little by little  Herrigel underwent powerful changes in his Zen experience which literally  must be undertaken in an authentic way ie by the sort of practice having no  limits or bounds, a wholehearted approach somewhat alien to most  westerners.  The book is an honest and clear account of his experience in  japan and is somehwat akin to that of Jan Whilhelm van de Wetering in  &quot;The Empty Mirror&quot;, humourous experiences such as when the master  wishes to find out more about what he does and in this way try to  understand why the practice of archery is so difficult for him : exclaiming  after he reads a philosophy book that &quot;no wonder you have so much  difficulty&quot;, adds to the humanity of the story. Although a small book  it is rich in personal experience and a treasure of a book which can be  read again and again to revitalise one's own practice.  It is also far more  readable than his other books which are full of difficult philosophical  concepts and lack the depth of humanity shown in this one.  The book  stresses what must be said again and again, Zen is about doing rather than  knowing (in the conventional sense) and Herrigel realises that only in the  practice of Zen rather than just reading about it can it be truly  &quot;known&quot;. He also demonstrates the great challenges to be faced in  this practice especially as regards the conflicts which arise between the  &quot;artless art&quot;, Zen, which is free of thought and that of his  profession which is never free of the constricting domain of thought. A  superb book which never fails to inspire.	2000-08-04
US	52486517	R3L17WLRHR5JQI	0936132922	100965815	Goethean Science	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A marvellous introduction to Goethean science	Rudolf Steiner, the well known scholar of Goethe and himself a prolific  author, reviews and brings to life, using his own experience, the  &quot;Goethean Way of Science&quot; which, contrary to the current science  practised today, is full of vitality and so to speak living in the  phenomenon, Goethe stresses the ability present in the human being of :  &quot;...the most exacting instrument&quot; he does not mean this in the  same way as say a measuring device. He notes that all of the investigator's  senses must be used including his/her innate ability to obtain a  feeling/sense of the phenomenon under investigation. This may appear to be  full of mistaken subjectivity and yet Goethe stresses that it is the full  experience of the phenomenon that leads to a true understanding which is  objective in more ways than science practises today. He states that in  order to avoid such subjectivity which easily arises from fantasy of all  types the investigator must develop a new organ of &quot;exact sensorial  imagination&quot; which takes its cues not from idle thoughts or an  expression of the person's ego but rather through the experience of the  phenomenon itself fully and with complete attention. This demonstrates the  fallacy of Kant's and Hume's objections to man's ability to think  intuitively or to experience the world as it truly is. It allows the  scientist to be fully alive in the becoming of the phenomenon. Such as  science would appear to be beyond current thinking and yet it was already  present in the 19th Century. It is such thinking which allowed Steiner to  create his school of &quot;spiritual&quot; science, where the meaning of  spiritual is far removed from the normal interpretaion and lies in this  ability to be objective in Goethe's sense.  Whether the book fully succeeds  in this approach is arguable and it appears that Steiner himself diverges  from this path at times, however as an expression of Goethe's method in  science it is an invaluable toolto begin your own investigations of  natural phenomena safe in the assurance that the experience of nature with  every sense is not a &quot;crime&quot; and can be trusted as a true  objective experience of the phenomenon.	2000-08-04
US	52486517	RK0L13N75WV66	0791436829	372228876	Goethe's Way of Science (Suny Series, Environmental & Architectural Phenomenology) (Suny Series in the Environmental and Architectural Phenomenology)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	The practise of Goethean science today	A timely book describing the way of science practised by Goethe and still  continued today through the talents of Bockemuehl, Schad and others.  Thankfully Goethe's &quot;way&quot; has not died the seemingly natural  death expected after the assault of scientific  positivism/reductionism/mechanism which has been the mainstream approach  associated with science since Galileo, Newton and Descarte. In fact science  has come to mean this very method. Whether it is admitted or not by many  scientists, they do feel a certain dimunition in the sense of life first  experienced when exposed to the original dynamic ideas of science such as  general relativity, evolution or the concept of the atom. This sense, well  expressed by Blake's beautiful poetic lines &quot;universe in a grain of  sand and heaven in a wildflower&quot; is what drew them to a scientific  career in the first place and shows that scientists just as much as artists  are searchers for wonder in the universe. The question remains how has this  sense of wonder been eradicated from the modern scientific approach. The  answer is it hasn't, not completely, investigators still feel this sense of  wonder as they investigate a new phenomenon for the first time and the  associated flood of ideas emanating from it. However once past this initial  stage scientific investigations progress in a very methodical way which  leaches the life from the initial phenomenon. Goethe initiated a science  which tries to maintain this &quot;living&quot; sense at all stages of the  investigation without the influx of total subjectivity. This book  demonstrates some investigators' own contemporary scientific investigations  from the growth of plants to the evolution and structure of mammals.  Hopefully such expositions will be read and digested by future scientists  and lead to a new revitalisation of science in a creative living way, where  this very approach becomes part of the life of the scientist rather than as  a separate part ofhis world.	2000-08-04
US	52486517	R37ATG22DTG63G	0385302304	983256815	Outlander	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Catallus would be proud	&quot;Outlander&quot; known as &quot;Cross Stitch&quot; in Australia, I believe a far more appropriate title given the time travel aspect, is the  first of Diana Gabaldon's novels of Claire and Jamie. As other reviewers  have noted, one must start the series with this one. Not only does it  outline the beginnings of their adventures together but it also shows how  the character of the author herself changes throughout. The book starts in  a typical English fashion where, during World War II, Claire is a nurse in  England being from a conservative English family with English mannerisms  and sense of etiquette. This is wonderfully portrayed throughout the first  novel but undergoes a wonderful change as you progress into the second and  third of the series, Claire rises from the almost staid woman of the first  novel to a woman not afraid of her passions. One can feel the effect Jamie  has on her, perhaps a sign of Gabaldon's own life changes. This is also  remarkable considering the fact that Gabaldon is herself American and yet  is able to show a certain &quot;Englishness&quot; which is very authentic,  not to mention her character portrayal of the Scots involved such as Jamie  or his Uncle. The aspect of magic and sorcery present in the time travel  and other fascinating incidences are presented more as natural forces  rather than any fantastical experiences you would expect from typical  fantasy novels, I think this also is something to be praised. A wonderful  book which I've read several times and will read again.	2000-08-02
US	52486517	R3CJ0ARYDX5FUP	0515119660	300923798	The Light Bearer	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A heroin who discovers the joy in her life	Harking back to my ancestors of 2000 years ago I was engrossed in the story of Auriane the remarkable Germanic priestess to be, drawing heavily  on historical evidence regarding the lives of the people of Germania of the  time across the frontier from Rome, the seeming &quot;bridge too far&quot;  for the Roman Empire. The story captivates one, following Marcus and  Auriane as they suffer and search for each other in their troubled lives.  The novel brings to light the fascinating beliefs of the Germanic people  such as reincarnation, the origin of the Easter celebrations, the use of  eggs etc. Although there can be little doubt the German people of the time  led a life often free of the cynicism of Rome and the respect shown for  women in the society, where women were considered holy, was a far healthier  society than exists even today, the attempt to portray Rome and its people  as greedy, cynical, corrupt and generally people deserving of little  respect seems somewhat harsh. I would think that at that time Rome was  still a strong dynamic force in the western world in the 1st Century,  receiving even the Chinese ambassador in 160 AD in the presence of Marcus  Aurelius. For the next 120 years or so Rome would be the predominant  &quot;light&quot; of civilisation and peace in the west (as so aptly  described in &quot;Gladiator&quot;). Nonetheless understanding the bias  shown it does not take away from the at times deeply felt expression which  seem to be drawn from Gillespie's own life. A book worth reading again and  again just for the humanness of the characters.	2000-08-02
US	52486517	R1HR33U0SULS25	0701166142	328460320	The Forest of Hours	Books	3	17	22	N	N	One day I must visit Skule forest	The Tale of a troll with an interest in humans and their affairs, this is a quick summary of what the novel is about. But this doesn't do it justice, in a gradual movement from &quot;somewhere&quot; in the middle ages right  up to &quot;somewhere&quot; in the 18th Century we follow the story of this  troll as he suffers and loves, he does this in a way not unlike stories  such as &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; but also engenders a feeling akin  to spirituality as well. At times the world Ekman creates almost resonates  with being from animal languages which are understood and yet still remain  animal to the sense of presence in the wood of the title. More than  anything this is brought out in the ending. The sense of what it is to be a  forest or how a person can live is shown by Ekman, a characteristic not  unknown in Scandinavian writers.	2000-08-01
US	52486517	R2A6VK844LZQH0	0226245322	844478837	Killing Time: The Autobiography of Paul Feyerabend	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One meets too few like him	Simply a wonderful book repleat with Feyerabend's astonishing honesty and frankness no matter the consequences, his experiences of world war II stand out as remarkable in the face of horrors which most people would glady  forget if they could. His energy in experiencing life and especially in the  openness needed for the full experience of love is obvious when he notes  that philosphy is irrelevant next to this. Written without sentimentality  and an eagerness for just living the book reveals the loss suffered by the  world when Feyerabend died.	2000-08-01
US	52486517	RPOINDA71E5F9	0415171830	188803795	Science, Order and Creativity second edition (Routledge Classics)	Books	4	61	64	N	N	A book that could lead to new sciences	David Bohm ignores the &quot;usual&quot; approaches to the investigation of fundamental questions in science, in fact in human life in general, and always provides a fresh and creative perspective. In this book he looks at  the idea of order in the universe and the mind as well as the basis of  creativity in human thought. Instead of assuming that order has already  been understood as it is often portrayed in the popular science press he  unveils the ideas of degree and levels of order and sidesteps the seemingly  antagonistic concepts of order and disorder (the approach used by a mind  whose thinking is habitualised by anaytical thinking of the world into  separate and distinct pieces). He avoids this routine type of thinking and  draws forth fascinating concepts giving a basis for a new science of order  and a whole new way of &quot;seeing&quot; the creative mind.  It is  unfortunate that Bohm's thinking is generally ignored by mainstream  scientists who could gain astonishing insight from such new ideas about  creativity, the mind and order.   As the new science of chaos has shown it  is possible to engender a whole new science using a fresh approach, Bohm  once again demonstrates this ability whole heartedly.	2000-07-27
US	52486517	R3BYDSTC4E7ZKP	0553061747	959749263	The End Of Science: Facing The Limits Of Knowledge In The Twilight Of The Scientific Age	Books	2	4	6	N	N	sensationalisation of the so-called &quot;end of science&quot;	The one thing which stands out (to my thinking) in this book is a seeming attempt to sensationalise the well used phrase referring to the end of science. This well used term also expressed at the end of the 19th century  and now in this one appears to be yet another way of selling a book. The  thoughts expressed in this book while certainly not irrelevant or  necessarily empty do strongly connect to a mechanical mode of thought  present in the popular science written by non-scientists. The history of  science is replete with these kinds of thoughts which arise due to people  becoming immersed in a single way of thinking which doesn't recognise  another mode is possible. Again the history of science shows that just when  we thought we understood all there was something, a seemingly  &quot;insignificant little something&quot; curtails our enthusiasm, eg  along comes quantum mechanics or chaos theory or fractals etc etc, nature  does not seem to run out of ways to express herself only people do. Ask  most practicing scientists and they would most likely say they understand  very little with much more yet to learn and comprehend. Even theories of  everything are not theories of everything just theories of the unification  of the forces of physics leaving out philosphy, psychology etc etc. It  seems this way of thought comes from overconfidence in the present way of  doing things whether it is a thought process or social system, again a  product of single-mindedness as it is defined.	2000-05-17
US	52486517	R3TGNLBBS1DP7V	0199104255	883940662	The Legionary (The Roman World)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	fascinating account of the life of a legionary	Once again a wonderful litte booklet in addition to Connolly's &quot;The Cavalryman&quot; concerning the life of a soldier in the legions during the time of Trajan. Vividly illustrated in great (and accurate) detail based on  archeological finds this book would be enjoyable just for the drawings, but  in fact its the story of the life of Tiberius Maximus which draws the  attention taken from his gravestone depicting his accomplishments and  service in the Roman army. The only complaint that comes to mind is the  shortness of the book which could have been very good indeed if it had been  fleshed out somehwat.	2000-04-20
US	52486517	R32CGH81OSF62V	0486689700	152341480	Theoretical Hydrodynamics (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	a very good introduction to hydrodynamics	As soon as I needed to make use of this book I found how good it was at its explanantions and even for a novice in the area it was well written and clear. Somehwat old now but nonetheless a solid introduction to  hydrodynamics in the tradition of Lamb. It sits well next to that beacon of  fluid mechanics Batchelor.	2000-03-22
US	52486517	R1FR8KEFP8HTUL	0486671356	689120504	On Growth and Form: The Complete Revised Edition	Books	4	43	45	N	N	simply a marvellous exposition of ideas	I heard about this marvellous book as I was reading in the typical popular science literature years ago now but its almost impossible to avoid contact with this tome of the archetypal polymath D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson. A  remarkable man with a wonderful open view of science and the, what's now  called, interdisciplinarian approach to the world. Refreshingly full of new  ideas especially for his day and even now where conservatism as usual is  the norm in scientific circles. I hope many scientists read this book and  see not just a curiosity but a representation of a whole approach to the  world of nature. I will never forget the first time I read the chapter on  coordinate transformations in animal shapes, today's schools simply do not  inspire in this way and its time this changed. The prescence of this book,  well read, on any person's bookshelf is a must.	2000-03-22
US	52486517	R3MLR88Q1B571Y	9623616082	348193101	Imperial Rome at War (Concord Fighting Men 6000)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Accurate pictorial depiction of Roman Armies	This litle book provides exceptional artistic skill in the depiction of Roman uniforms during the Empire period as well as the inclusion in realistic settings during the reigns of well known Emperors. Each page has an associated historical sketch of the events shown in the picture  opposite. Absolutely beautifully presented, and provides not just visual  enjoyment but useful hints for modellers and military enthusiasts. A must  for my own bookshelf.	2000-02-04
US	52486517	RH2U1RTEH30S0	0415193982	61762569	The Limits of Thought: Discussions between J. Krishnamurti and David Bohm	Books	4	42	43	N	N	an in depth analysis of the limits of thought	An excellent investigation of thought by Krishnamurti and Bohm. The style is one of question and answer, first the illuminating insights of  Krishnamurti followed by the in depth questioning of Bohm. At times one  gets lost in the concepts Krishnamurti uses to expand on his views but in  the nick of time Bohm clarifies the issue with his well known brand of  questioning. It is indeed rare to find such a book which so deeply  investigates the subtlety of thought, its construction of the `self' and  its uses and abuses so to speak. As typical of Krishnamurti and Bohm this  book is important and lacks any kind of fantasy component or unecessary  terms. Perfect for psychologists, scienists and laymen.	1999-11-01
US	52486517	RHS4LFG6S4HMM	0415110300	555311874	Thought as a System	Books	5	103	107	N	N	How thought manipulates us	A superb book with Bohm investigating the nature of thought in all its subtlety through a dialogue approach used by Bohm in several other books.  Bohm's remarkable way of dialogue investigation assumes nothing except his  internal investigations of his own thought processes which are explained in  a manner allowing free discussion, ie nothing is assumed, set in its ways  and everything is open to question, similarly he doesn't create any  sophisticated terminology which could confuse the issue or the people who  are asking the questions. The talks are in the words of every day people  and use their everyday experiences for understanding. Thought is dissected  in all its aspects, the creation of the `subject' and `object' and the  underlying self, how thought gives rise to the structure of society and its  problems, where is thought appropriate, these and many other questions are  studied with no final answers allowing a deeper search to be performed by  the reader. A book desperately needed to brush away the cobwebs of  terminology, systems, fantasies and other claptrap so prevalent in our  society.	1999-11-01
US	52486517	R21RBYEYGRSONA	0486400360	176914825	Creative Evolution	Books	4	64	76	N	N	the light shining between Heraclitus and Bohm	Henri Bergson's seminal ``Creative Evolution'' starts off with the flowing movement so prevalent in his philosophy of the organism, one idea flows  into the next in a smooth undivided motion. Not only does Bergson explain  his work with analogies and examples supported by the biology of the time,  thereby distancing himself from the purely intellectual pursuit of most  philosohpy, trapped in the world of the mind, but he demonstrates his  thought in the very way of exposition he uses throughout the book. One  feels his thought is produced like a Mozart symphony, all at once with no  corrections needed. This aptly demonstrates the idea of duration and time  he proposes in this book. His influence is profound in thinkers such as  David Bohm and Alfred North Whitehead which so to speak ``run with it'' in  the parlance of baseball. This is a book worth reading twice for its rich  display of creativity and also to reread sections not followed the first  time. One does feel however that at times the flow is interrupted by  disturbances in his mode of thinking leading to disjointed reading.  Nonetheless, not only does he open a whole new way of thought free of  dualism and the old patterns of mechanism, but he also expalins the reason  for mechanistic thought itself.	1999-10-28
US	52486517	R3W0TGU20WQ83L	0226808386	213507886	Cosmopolis: The Hidden Agenda of Modernity	Books	3	16	28	N	N	a reminder certainty was never certain	A well written book given its academic nature exposing the flimsy threads holding together the rather cold philosophy of scientific positivism generated not just by philosophers and scientists at the begining of the  17th century but giving a clear and tragic reason for its founding and  eventual decline.  A must read for science students given the persistence  of this earlier, discredited  philosophy and its pitfalls. The difficulty  of current scientists, especially popular writers, to face the truth of the  matter makes this book a timely addition.	1999-10-05
US	52486517	R28G010YTV542G	0679776397	598725160	The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-Than-Human World	Books	4	32	34	N	N	language and the walls it generates	A fascinating odyssey through the mind, first with the philosophical viewpoint of phenomenology which at last tries to describe reailty as it shows itself to us/itself and the perspective of the other both indigenous  peoples and animals and plants. At times lyrical and deeply personal and at  others academic it nevertheless doesn't let go of the connection it forms  at the beginning with tales of Abrams life. One feels that the experience  of the world so honestly told throughout the book at times, provide the  true wonder evident in Abrams life. It is a pity more of these experiences  were not forthcoming. It reminds me of the answer given by a Zen student in  Japan when asked about his practice : &quot;the world is so beautiful you  almost can't stand it&quot;	1999-10-05
US	52486517	R1WNEKVC0MOE7G	0940262797	798801053	The Wholeness of Nature : Goethe's Way Toward a Science of Conscious Participation in Nature	Books	5	58	60	N	N	best non-fiction book I have read	No praise is adequate for this book with its strong unsentimental philosophical approach tempered with a relaxed style and exceptionally clear explanations of the material. It opens up a completely new way of  viewing and doing science one not easily acceptable to a rigid  interpretaion as it stands today. Very broad in its scope discussing very  deeply the idea of world view, it is an essential read for any scientist  even applied mathematicians such as myself. Unlike other books in the same  vein eg metaphysical etc, in whose domain it does not belong, there are no  fantastical explanations with no grounding but rather well researched  arguments in favour of an almost a Socratic perspective, refering here to  Socrates's character and life rather than Plato's use of him in his  arguments. Recommended for all open minded readers and those who would like  to have theirs opened.	1999-08-13
US	52486517	R2DPOWJEVA2O4S	0679748199	79113792	Voltaire's Bastards: The Dictatorship of Reason in the West	Books	4	3	5	N	N	not &quot;too many notes&quot; but just right	Essential reading for wouldbe politicians, managers, administrators and the general public. In this innovative book an author at last explains the hidden niggling feelings of helplessness and concern troubling so many  thinking persons in today's western society. Through the liberal use of all  sorts of images taken from the arts, politics, history and numerous other  fields, Ralston-Saul opens the mind of the reader to the essential truths,  seemingly hidden, of not only the decay of western society, expounded  before but also the way to recreate a democratic society day by day without  static walls to repress the creative minds of each and every citizen.	1999-07-29
