US	52485836	RMGO7NTHQFUQP	0312423586	82302003	The Great Fire	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Theme is coping with loss	When I read Transit of Venus maybe 20 years ago, a friend said to me that she thought the characters in the work weren't modern but acted more like Victorians. In this work as well the characters have a civility, a moral awareness, and a restraint that do make them seem like they  belong to a forgotten time.  I think that's why I find them so engaging--plus the fact that they are forced to deal with tremendous losses brought about by World War II.  Yes, the book has some oddities of style that perhaps might make it seem quaint to some, but it was very moving to me.  I know that the book was unpopular to lots of people--maybe you need to be old to appreciate it because you can't reach a certain age without experiencing loss. Then you understand what the author is saying here in a very beautiful, nuanced way.  The restraint the author shows may bore some, but for me it makes the emotion more heartfelt and engaging.  What a cataclysm World War II was--and it was a \\"good war\\" in that it was fought out of necessity.  I hate to think of the long-lasting repercussions of this current war. I think reading this work could aid in understanding what we face in the future.	2005-06-07
US	52485836	R2L7GNWTF5BF9B	0312421176	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	This one misses its mark	I really enjoyed reading Headlong and Copenhagen, but Frayn missed with this one.  Frayn is excellent at  satirical farce or philosophy. but neither of those forms require the generation of much emotion.  Farce is really an intellectual genre that depends on speed and humor for effect. Copenhagen worked because it was an intellectual mystery.  This novel needs the reader to identify and engage with the main character to care about the outcome.  Instead, Frayn is too interested in suggesting the fleeting quality of memory to help us understand Stephen.  Also, there is a problem writing a mystery from an adult's point of view when he knows the outcome.  Withholding information under those circumstances make it seem that the author is playing unfair games with the reader and also dilutes the suspense.  I think the reader never really feels what the consequences of the boys' actions are likely to be--we don't sense real danger and therefore lose interest.  Read A Little Friend by Donna Tartt to see how she handles a child's coming of age where the consequences of the girl's actions are life changing and terribly frightening.	2005-06-07
US	52485836	R24C3W8AYUBDYN	1400031699	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	5	103	109	N	N	Greek tragedy--Mississippi style	Donna Tartt, a classicist, structures this novel like a Greek tragedy.  The death of Harriet's brother Robin is not the central event in the novel, but the starting point that sets the tragic events in motion. Harriet, believing that she can solve the mystery of Robin's death, with just a hunch to guide her and the worshipful boosterism of her equally ignorant  chum, confronts a young man from the wrong side of the tracks in an escalating conflict that comes to a battle of life and death.  Finally, Harriet, who is mostly abandoned by her family, has to face this threat totally alone--and she has to reckon with her own hubris in bringing  about this crisis. She will be forever scarred by what she has done, but she is wiser for it all. Two families are on a collision course,and the novel is resolved when they meet  in a horrifying climax.  To say that the ending is not resolved is not to understand the point of the book. Empathy  is generated by understanding the heartbreak of the wasted suffering on the part of both parties --neither one  is totally innocent or guilty. The last chapter just illustrates  the total ignorance of the rest of the community of what has happened, and how the main characters will have to bear their grief  alone for the rest of their lives.  The comedy of life in a small town rises to the level of  tragedy--fate takes its course once the events are set in motion, leaving the reader with a profound catharsis.	2005-02-07
US	52485836	R2LJIUUDIAO9M5	0375760393	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	3	6	13	N	N	More poetry than science	Although this book is marketed as popular science, its science has to take a back seat to its romantic,  poetic mind set.  No book of science would say that apples from seedling trees &quot;don't come true&quot; without stating the genetic reasons for this phenomenon (a seedling is a hybrid with two parents).  The author concedes  that &quot;evolution doesn't depend on will or intention to work; it is , almost by definition an unconscious, unwilled process&quot;... that seems &quot;clever only in retrospect.&quot;But on numerous occasions throughout the book he uses language like &quot; The plants hit on a remarkably clever strategy,&quot; &quot;plants are willing partners,&quot;&quot;the apple transformed itself, &quot; &quot;the plants develped poisons in their seeds to ensure that only the sweet flesh is consumed,&quot; etc.  Such phrases imply design, will, and intention which anthropomorphize plants and don't precisely convey the process by which the result was achieved. The author further relies on myth (Apollonian versus Dionysian attributes), metaphor, Platonic ideal (such as &quot;The Apple&quot;) to make his points. All of this is harmless enough, I suppose, if readers are critical enough to recognize that this is not science.  Poetry itself has value and so does popular science in attracting an audience that would be intimidated by something more precise and factual.  The book does stimulate thought, but works better if readers can confer with a scientist while reading it.	2004-03-31
US	52485836	R1HHHF610UG6VL	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	1	11	23	N	N	An idea for consideration	What accounts for the overwhellming response to and acceptance of a book that seems so hard to believe? Other than its rather sappy portrayal of death and its idealized African American characters, there might be another reason,. I suggest that the subtext of this book (since it doesn't seem to come from the author's  experiences or acquaintances as reported in her interview published in the back of the book) is  an unconscious wish of a white woman (the author disguised as Lily) to be forgiven for her sins against African Americans (symbolically represented as Lily's killing of her mother before she was old enough to be held legally responsible) which is fulfilled through unconditional love and acceptance.  Thus the complexity and anxiety  of race relations is happily denied to the comfort and relief of what I imagine is a mostly white, female readership.	2004-02-26
US	52485836	R2VBMLAE5IEG7B	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Romantic and Dreamy	The author of this flawed novel is obviously very talented.  He has created several memorable images of Burma, in particular that of a woman with parasol disappearing into the mists.  Although the novel contains interesting history and  evocative descriptions, there is something missing.  The main character  doesn't interact very much with his surroundings, remaining primarily an observer.  Because the interactions are superficial, we don't really gain insight into the reasons he falls in love with Burma or understand its essence.  The motivations of most of the characters remain murky at best, contrived and incredible at worst. In the final analysis the book just doesn't make sense.	2004-02-24
US	52485836	R33BDYCRLM6VLF	0142001740	314504469	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	1	28	41	N	N	Sentimentality sells!	As a former high school librarian, I read many adolescent novels, and picking up this one, I felt that I had read it before. In these books the young girl  (usually ) is an outsider with literary pretensions who is on an emotional quest and is a humorous commentator on the adults around her.  I'm just surprised to see this kind of story marketed to and embraced by adults.  Throughout my career I was dismayed at the Disneyfication of children's literature, the substitution of wholesome, sweet, romanticized, sentimental fiction for more realistic, complex literature.  This literature has an infantilizing effect on our youth which is not harmless.  Now we see this syrupy literature frequently on adult best seller lists.  It depresses me to see the tide of positive reviews for this book because it suggests that readers uncritiically accept a trite vision of the world because it is unthreatening and flattering to one's preconceived notions.  There's much better literature out there if one is willing to open one's mind to more honest , edgier, less cutesy fare.	2004-02-24
US	52485836	R291SBS1L20367	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Both lurid and sentimental	I wish that I hadn't been taken in by the hype for this book as I think reading it was mostly a waste of time.  I was initially interested because I thought it would provide insight into the grieving process, but it really offers nothing new that previous Oprah-type books haven't already covered.  The best  work of fiction to deal with grief, in my opinion, is A. S. Byatt's  Still Life, the second work in her Francesca tetralogy.  There you see the blaming, the rage, the debilitating sorrow that are usually part of the process. This book 's problem is that the family at its core is too conventional  and uninteresting.<br />The book begins in a lurid fashion --but at least this section seems heartfelt and powerful.  The book  then descends into romantic mysticism and sentimentality, but unfortunately these qualities probably account for its popularity.  Instead of probing and exploring the reality of death, the book unconsciously  is a denial of it at the deepest level.  This is why it can't be taken seriously as literature. The book has a young-adult feel;  I'm  shocked that the author who has experienced a rape in which she almost died hasn't shown more maturity here.  She is obviously intelligent and talented, but I think real wisdom has eluded her as the sentiments expressed in the novel seem adolescent.<br />Why is it that the adult women characters in books of this type who are leading unfulfilled lives think that working in a place such as a winery is more fulfilling? Why would a woman abandon her other children at the time they need her the most? Why is there so little sense of the culture of the 70's in this novel?  Why are the characters so uninterested in anything but their domestic lives--no politics, no intellectual pursuits? Why are the characters so flat, so lacking in personality? Why are books of this type so popular?<br />There are many novels available that challenge one's preconceived notions and rise above the banal. I suggest Ian McEwan's  Atonement for a book that moves you and is intellectually stimulating.	2003-06-14
US	52485836	R1SJHRK7462GDB	0684869497	822218853	The Gardens of Kyoto: A Novel	Books	2	8	14	N	N	A Victorian novel	Does the world of literature need another novel about unwed motherhood? Probably not. To make this story palatable it must be set in the past where it can be infused with romanticism.   Although set in the Forties and Fifties, the novel evokes the Victorian Age with its cult of the dead and the romantic figure who dies young.  Although the novel starts off strong in what was originally published as a short story, it sinks little by little into the cliches of women's fiction: love at first sight, marriage with a stranger to conceal an unwanted pregnancy, an abortion  attempt, spousal abuse, attachment  to romantic objects such as books and letters, numerous secrets, death by an unnamed disease, etc.<BR>Although some writers (notably Anita Brookner) can make a dramatic story of  an unfulfilled life, the author here makes the main character so passive, so unattached to anyone other than her long dead cousin, so passionless, that it is hard to care about her fate. This is not tragedy  but victimhood that approaches, if it doesn't quite achieve, self pity.<br />Our book group gave the book mixed reviews.  While we appreciated the author's talent and strength in the initial chapters, we felt that the book emphasized style over substance. Self-conscious ambiguity did not draw in the reader as it did it Anil's Ghost; the contemplative tone consisted really of  just recalling events with imperfect precision and led to few insights and self knowledge and repetition without revelation.  This is an old-fashioned novel without much contemporary relevance.	2003-02-25
US	52485836	R2MCIJS7OV89BB	0802139256	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	2	17	41	N	N	Child's Play	Romantic mysticism  and cute children add up to a pretty picture, but one that won't stand up to critical scrutiny.  I might be willing to suspend my disbelief with respect to the miracles and fantasy here if the characters showed believable motivations  and followed credible patterns of human nature. The author presents an idealized picture of children who are too good to be true and noble adults who are willing to sacrifice all for the sake of the children.  The author seems to have a serious intent to show how Reuben comes of age and  is tested by  hard reality, but the cute tone of the book fights against any serious message.  The cop-out ending negates Reuben's growth toward adulthood.  Emotion is generated through sentimentality in which the author takes advantage of the reader's sympathy for the innocent and the sick to make his point.  The problem with sentimentality is that at its heart it is a cheap shot and is manipulative and false. <br />The popularity of this novel indicates the willingness of many to believe  in an artificial world with no semblance of reality because it represents what they would like to believe is true.  This is a \\"G\\" rated novel, so wholesome that it won't even say the word \\"rape\\" and its most negative language is \\"ratfink\\"!  All in  all the book has a very childish feel.  All the Pretty Horses provides a good contrast to this novel--much more realistic and adult, a coming of age story in which the main character gets a real dose of reality and is profoundly changed by the experience.  Peace Like a River is mind candy, a Disneyfied vision that can't be taken seriously by lovers of serious fiction.	2002-11-26
US	52485836	R2LUWBWA51EJR1	0735710376	995995559	Photoshop 6 Artistry	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Photoshop 6 Artistry	Photoshop 6 Artistry contains very detailed and descriptive information on Photoshop 6 which is not found in the Photoshop 6 manual.  It gives the reader the ability to become proficient in the use of most every aspect of Photoshop. While this book contains lots of useful and very detailed information, it is very hard to follow because it is written in a conversational style.  Because of this it contains information which can be confusing.  It addresses many topics which are not directly related to the main subject. It also contains circular references. For example many paragraphs or sections make reference to other chapters, web sites, and apparently pertinent information to be found elsewhere. It also has not been tightly edited as evidenced by numerous typographical errors.  This also makes it hard to read.	2001-08-23
US	52485836	RUMSEV8UKKJPB	0385314698	279544605	The Sixteen Pleasures: A Novel	Books	3	20	23	N	N	flawed but still enjoyable	This book defies contradictory expectations: it is not the high-minded work  I expected, nor  is it the descent into pornography I expected once I found out the nature of the valuable work of art our heroine comes across.  What it really is, I think,  is a coming of age story where a young woman who belongs no where, gradually finds out just who she is and where she fits in and learns her own mind.<br />The main problem is that the book doesn't have a consistent tone and its parts fight with each other--its a literary hodge-podge.  Part of it is a primer on methodology for saving art, part an appreciation of classical books, part coming of age, part love story, part travelogue, and part literary thriller.  However, there are delights to be found: the growing identity of the main character, the atmospherics of Florence,  and the fascinating information on art and culture.  It's easy to read and is worthwhile.	2001-03-26
US	52485836	R1VENVDZDQQPSJ	039595617X	203214031	Human Voices	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Book grows on you if you apply effort	Our book group read this work last month, but it was not a success with the group as a whole.  Members were confused, disengaged,  and bored.  Most did not understand the understated, deadpan humor. However, I read the book twice; once I understood its point, I developed real affection for the quirky characters and chuckled a lot.<br />Still I couldn't escape the feeling that the work is a mere sketch, rather slight, very underdeveloped dramatically.  Because the characters were so sketchy, it was difficult at first to care about them.  Fitzgerald is obviously very intelligent; she suggests a great deal, so the reader must infer and interpret and read between the lines.  The reward for doing so is an understanding of the quirks of organizations--how they become obsessed with trivialities, gossip, power relations, etc-- and a feeling for the poignancy of the &quot;stiff upper lip&quot; stoicism  of people who had everything to lose, and a pleasure of watching slightly eccentric individuals interact.  The work is short but flavorful.	2001-03-26
US	52485836	R182WGT7DNK89L	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a good selection for book group discussion	Other reviews here are complete and to the point.  I will only add that the book is a good selection for book group discussion.  Although the book is a little slow to get into, most members of our club really enjoyed the melancholy and introspective tone coupled with the evocative and vivid descriptions of 19th Century life in Sicily among the aristocracy.  The book is elegantly written, competently translated for the most part, and engaging.  Although the reader recognizes the faults of our hero, we care deeply about him.  The book is quietly moving, especially the chapter where our hero dies.    <br />The work is a historical novel; the Freudian undertones, sybolism,  and indirection along with its  ironic humor  are characteristic of  the time period it was written, the late 50's, and not  an original component of 19th Century literary style.<br />It's almost as good as a visit to Italy.	2001-03-26
US	52485836	R2KV37KOB0XJHC	0140196013	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image (Compass)	Books	4	39	51	N	N	I'm skeptical	Much of the material in this work is based on the fallacy that a prior  event is the cause of a later event.  Shlain repeats this argument  endlessly as if sheer numbers of fallacious cases somehow make up for the  defficiency.  However, the book is very thought-provoking. Surprisingly  considering its thesis, the book is written in a very  &quot;left-brain&quot; manner; each chapter sets up dichotomies of opposite  ideas.  Although this structure leads to oversimplification, it does tend  to clarify issues in a global way and provide an outline of history and  culture.  Perhaps he's on to something when he sees the inherent misogynist  purpose behind fundamentalist religions and the puritanism of 20th century  ideologies that he calls atheistic religions.    There are many small  insights, but I would need more information before accepting his  main  thesis.  The book is very flattering to women; thus, there is a temptation  to believe.  Shlain made an appearance at the Boulder World Affairs  Conference where I attended some of his sessions.  He is a very dynamic  individual with a great sense of humor and much that is interesting to  ponder.	2000-08-29
US	52485836	R28KW6H8K5ED9G	0679450742	828689024	The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton	Books	1	14	24	N	N	An overachiever's Huck Finn	I've seen several writers be ruined by fame as they indulge their whims  with excessive verbiage; it seems the editors don't mess with prior  success. I guess after doing all that research, Smiley couldn't bear to  leave any of it out, but it becomes soporific after a while.  She as a  writing teacher should know the value of dramatizing, showing rather than  telling.  Too much is narrative summary.  Another problem is the narrative  style, which while authentically archaic, is is ultimately distancing. The  mountain of words drowns feeling and prevents engagement with the  characters.    There is no sustaining force to carry the reader through: it  seems everything is abortive, both figuratively and literally.  In idea  will come up, only to be dropped a couple of pages later.  At least Huck  Finn had irreverance, irony, and humor. Mostly, though, the novel (at 450  p.) is underdeveloped!  She needed to focus in, develop at least some  characters.  Thomas is a real nothing and Lidie herself seems to lose  personality as the book progresses.  The book is exceedingly conventional  and adolescent in its appeal.  It seems that this story has been done often  and better by other writers.	2000-08-29
US	52485836	R3NEZXJ2D4DGVU	0679762051	963527230	My Dark Places	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Not stylish but passionate	I think most high school sophomores can write better sentences than Ellroy's which are devoid of any complexity like clauses and phrases.  Most sentences begin with the subject and follow a monotonous pattern which is  annoying.  However, Ellroy's passion and powers of observation are rarities  that impel the reader through the wasteland of his prose.  The book is  almost unbearably intense as he deals with the raw emotions of facing up to  his guilt in emotionally abandoning his mother who was murdered when he was  ten.  He makes sleazy L.A. come alive; the reader can understand his  attraction to this nearly evil place.  This is a creepy but fascinating  world.	2000-06-10
US	52485836	R1DT6RI9NS9YM7	0679766626	574131654	Last Orders	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Pleasant and quiet	At first I really liked the book as I thought it was a black comedy somewhat like &quot;As I Lay Dying&quot; but in the end I felt that it didn't measure up to its billing.  Although pleasant and readable, it just  doesn't have enough to it to be memorable.  It would make an entertaining  movie of the &quot;Ned Devine&quot; type, but I don't think it would win  any awards as there's nothing to impel the plot forward other than the  journey which becomes a bit tiresome.  There are some good scenes, but all  in all it seems on the tame side.	2000-06-10
US	52485836	R272KLYXEFGV3M	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	More intellectually than emotionally stimulating	This is a work of creative genius in which leitmotifs of Virginia Woolf's works weave their melody in a new composition that helps the reader understand what Woolf was driving at--how we are haunted by our past and its turning points and moments of great promise, the books we read, how  others may see us represented in fiction and how we respond to that, to  yearning for what we can't have or what we threw away in a moment.  Sexuality has been inverted from the heterosexual world Woolf lived in  where to be gay was exciting and romantic, to the world of 90's New York  where homosexuality itself has slipped into conventionality and bourgeois  manners, but the problems are still the same: &quot;There's so little love  in the world,&quot; one of the gay characters realizes ultimately.<br />What  keeps the work from being great is the fact that it's perhaps a little too  clever for its own good, and its hard to get around the contrivance to  actually care about these self-absorbed characters.  Only the character of  Virginia Woolf as Cunningham depicts her seems fully human and not just  artifice.<br />Still the book is very thought-provoking and makes a wonderful  focus for a book group discussion.  Although it is relatively short and  easy to read, it is packed with provocative ideas and a few surprises.	2000-04-25
US	52485836	R2LL4KPDLZMTFX	0679749519	741639462	Remembering Babylon: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Great for a book club discussion	Our book club recently read this novel for its monthly selection and found it to be a good choice.   Although a couple of members were confused by the book's seemingly aimless direction and lack of a central character, the  discussion we had was very lively and interesting. The author's nuanced  insight into the point of view of each character let us see the profound  effects Gemmy had on all the  lives of the villagers.  The work takes some  digging to fully appreciate; then its poetic artistry and structure and  purpose become more evident.  The key is not to expect the book to read  like a conventional novel of cultural conflict.  This is more like a prose  poem where the details are distilled to essentials, where an entire  community is compressed into five or six main individuals, where symbolism  expands the meaning and emotional content, where lyrical language  stimulates thought, where ambiguity and mystery draw in the reader without  giving way to romance.  Gemmy, the catalyst for change, is complex and hard  to figure: on the one hand he is pathetic, childlike, and vulnerable but on  the other he is observant, considerate and spiritual.  He brings out the  best of those in the village who are open to new experiences and the worst  in those who are close-minded and fearful.  Also he touches the reader.  This fable will be appreciated by the poetically-inclined and scorned by  the literal-minded.	2000-03-21
US	52485836	R29FBRVFPE23ZY	0385482388	887532070	The Mistress of Spices: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Multicultural romance is  popular genre	I recently attended a workshop where the author spoke and I was most impressed with her charm, brilliance, and personality.  Unfortunately, I was most disappointed with her novel.<br />Lately it seems that a new genre has evolved; the multicultural romance.  Only a step up from the popular  Harlequin romances, this type seems to be aimed at women.  Its  characteristics include a romanticized exotic setting; emphasis on the  nobility of ethnic groups; flowery  or pretty language not based on  observation but on romanticized nature; melodramatic plots; superficial  characters; little irony, wit, or humor; self-pity; magic; and exaggerated  emotion.  Themes emphasize domestic and child abuse, notions like  appearances don't matter, identity politics, environmentalism, and the  superiority of feelings to truth. It seems like an ancient form with a  modern twist promulgated by  the better practitioners of this form, such as  Barbara Kingsolver.  However, I think it's becoming tiresome.   Give me  something with more observation and experience, more complexity and some  grit and edge, less idealization.  Something like Rohinton Mistry's &quot;A  Fine Balance&quot; is what I was hoping for when I decided to read this.	2000-03-14
US	52485836	R2XE1REEZLEQPD	0805054537	42109996	This Side of Brightness: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Didn't live up to its potential	This book is quite mysterious and intriguing, yet in the final analysis something seems to be missing.  The powerful imagery of the &quot;resurrection&quot; of the men building the tunnel under the river is very suggestive and pulls the reader in, but much of the book is murky.  I  suppose this is appropriate considering how much of it takes place in  tunnels-- symbolic of an underworld existence.  Also it was interesting how  questions of identity impelled the plot.  But although I admired the style  and the symbolism, it was hard for me to connect emotionally with the  book.<br />Martin Cruz Smith's &quot;Rose&quot; describes tunnels and working  in coal mines in such a frightening way that many other descriptions of  tunnels seem tame to me.  This historical mystery is extremely well-written  for its genre.	2000-03-07
US	52485836	R2HAIWFTEP9Y1M	0786703210	733207079	A Dead Man in Deptford (Burgess, Anthony)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Challenging but worth it	Our book group comprised of many retired teachers read this book recently; some members balked at its difficulty, but those who persevered felt that reading the book was a very rich experience.  How else could you really sense the danger, the intrigue, the raw energy, and  the vitality of the  times.  Burgess brings the period alive brilliantly through his inventive  language and ironic humor.  The book gets easier as it goes along, so stick  with it; you'll be rewarded.	2000-03-07
US	52485836	RK6P4M67TC4Q7	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Amusing	Although I got a bit tired of Frank McCourt's  naive act, I did enjoy reading this book.  Many times I felt glad that I wasn't married to such an immature, childish, irresponsible alcoholic; I felt impatient for him to grow up.  But humor kept it amusing enough, especially the retelling of his  first day teaching at a Staten Island high school.  Being a teacher, I  found this story to be hilarious.  I couldn't help feeling throughout,  though, that if it hadn't been for the connections of his brother Malachy,  that even &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; might not have been published.<br />To my  mind much better Irish authors are not as appreciated as McCourt, such as  Roddy Doyle whose &quot;Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha&quot; has the same kind of  poignancy as &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; and Edna O'Brien's whose   &quot;Country Girls' Trilogy&quot; is unforgettable.	2000-03-07
US	52485836	R2IHA03TY2L2KI	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Conventional	My book group read this book and every member except me thought it was marvelous.  I just couldn't get over the feeling that it was superficial and conventional--like a Norman Rockwell painting that sweetens but  cheapens reality.  The other members thought it beautifully written, but I  felt it to be too soulless, too &quot;writing-school&quot; pretty, with a  self-conscious lyricism that kept me from being really moved or involved in  the story.  Consider this mixed metaphor :&quot;Then he remembered  strawberry fields from before Manzanar and he was in them as he'd always  been, a sea of strawberries, rows and rows, a labyrinth of runners as  intricate as a network of arteries feeding on the surface of a dozen farms  he knew from childhood.&quot;  A great novel should provoke and make the  reader question what he believes instead of flattering the reader by  supporting conventional wisdom.  This novel seems contrived to be popular  by presenting current fashions in thought. This book has been overrated by  readers who should be more critical.	1999-06-28
US	52485836	R19V0F3N4R29KF	0679776451	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Pleasurable like a 19th century novel	I'm glad to know that some people write them like they used to! What pleasure it is to read a realistic novel with interesting characters and plot that the reader actually cares about.  Here the  characters are seen  pretty much from the outside, as was the fashion 100 years ago before  writers delved into the interior psyche, but with no loss of interest. I  can't tell you how much I cared about the four main characters, especially  the two tailors whose lives were so filled with tragedy but who managed to  endure with their humor and humanity intact.  I think that the reason the  characters engaged me so much was that the author himself showed great  compassion for them.  It's been a long time since I read a book that  contained such sweetness; it's a great antidote for so much of the  negativity of modern fiction.  I must say, however, that I was disturbed by  the ending of the book--it was too terrible.  And I feel that what happened  to Maneck was contrived and not quite believable.  This book is really  better than those of a writer like Dickens because it has a lot of the  positive attributes--interesting, unique characters and humor--without some  of the  lesser qualities--sentimentality and excessive exaggeration.  This  book is long, but it is very good.	1999-06-25
US	52485836	RB0M95SYWH1WH	0140264795	13447115	Rosie	Books	2	22	49	N	N	Like an Oprah book before there were Oprah books	Our book club selected this book because one of the members is a friend of Annie Lamott. Granted, Annie Lamott has a great deal of writing talent, but this book is not a good introduction to her work.  Unfortunately, it falls  into the genre of &quot;women's fiction&quot; identified by Laura Jamison  in her review of  The Pilot's Wife, a recent Oprah selection. These books  have a certain sameness about them: they're built around a bourgeois  romance and feature the most generic, &quot;white-bread&quot; characters.  This one fits the description. Elizabeth, the main character, other than  being an alcoholic, has very few identifiable character traits.  The author  contrives for her to be grieving for her dead husband to give her at least  some excuse for her heavy drinking.  So many of these Oprah books feature a  woman in a state of obsessive  grief as if this justifies  their wallowing  in victimhood and their complete self-indulgence. Also implied is the  notion that the women's  confession of poor behavior  makes it okay and  shows the woman to be extraordinarily honest.  In my opinion, this is  not literature!  I keep getting persuaded into reading these stories of  suburban housewives' problems, but essentially they're boring.  Why should  I care about someone's ability to conquer alcoholism or find a man? I  congratulate Oprah for getting her public to read, but I just wish that she  had better taste (except for Toni Morrison).  So many of the women in these  books seem so juvenile, dependent, self-centered, and humorless.  In Rosie  whatever humor there is comes from violating taboos or from description  rather than any sense of irony or wit.  I disagree with those who say  that Lamott displays wisdom.  Any wisdom is really &quot;conventional  wisdom&quot; which is often based on cultural myth, rather than true  knowledge.  She can observe and describe quite well (as some of her essays  in Salon magazine indicate).  All in all, except for some talented writing,  Rosie is an ordinary book.	1999-06-25
US	52485836	R2HN91I6Q9SU9T	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Requires patience but is worth it	This book--which is really about manhood--is a relief from the domestic fiction that I seem to have been lured into recently by Oprah-hype and best-sellers that focus on women's quests for fulfillment within the  confines of their limited worlds.  Their absorption within themselves  becomes boring after a steady diet of this kind of work.  So the world of  wheeling and dealing, betrayal, racial politics, and even prison life and  the large canvas of modern-day times played out against the question of  what it means to be a man in today's society seemed interesting by  comparison.  Of course 742 pages of modern canvas is a bit much, no matter  the entertainment value of the numerous set pieces described by other  reviewers.  When writers become this famous it's hard for editors to cut  anything, but this book would have benefited by being 200 pages  shorter.<br />I think a problem with the novel is the structure: too many  characters and an alternating focus on the characters that interrupts the  momentum.  The first half of the novel lacks impetus to move it forward;   readers need lots of patience to keep interested.  However, when the book  reaches the prison break, the conflict has intensified enough to move the  reader along.<br />Yes, the ending may not be ideal. In this culture we are  suspicious of any &quot;answers&quot; so the embracing of Stoicism may seem  too pat, too 19th Century.  Also, the author seems to be take Stoicism  seriously one moment and then to ridicule it the next.  The epilogue,  however, made me chuckle as I thought, &quot;Here we go again.  Only the  race has changed.&quot;<br />The novel, while less outrageous and hilarious  than Bonfire of the Vanities, is worth reading but does require  perseverance.  The characterizations are better than in Bonfire:Wolfe  begins with types but he ends with fully rounded individuals  in the case  of Croker and Hensley, both of whom I care  genuinely care about by the end  of the book.<br />For a really thoughtful assessment of this book see Michael  Lewis's review in the New York Times.	1999-03-18
US	52485836	RXNP2OK3A6JA0	0345422953	339554558	The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty	Books	3	53	65	N	N	Intellectual but superficial	A book club that I belong to just read this book as its monthly selection.  Members in general felt that the book lacked substance although it was well written and the author is obviously intelligent.  Most of us are  younger than Heilbrun and felt that we had come to the same realizations  that the author did much earlier; for example, her anguishing over dressing  androgynously seemed hard to understand in this day of overwhelming freedom  of choice.  Many felt that for  such a devoted feminist that she seemed  very much dependent on others, somewhat spoiled perhaps, self-centered and  not very self-reliant. The most distressing element seemed to be a lack of  attachment for others including her husband, children, and friends.  She  expressed much more feeling for &quot;unmet&quot; friends than anyone she  knew personally.  Although she spoke of passions for literature, travel,  friendship, her intellectual prose seemed flat, joyless, and unemotional.   All in all, we felt that the author was an odd woman and her book was  disappointing and superficial.  On the other hand, the discussion of the  book was quite another matter; it was intense and provocative.  The book  helped us focus on important issues like how to make a meaningful life for  oneself as one ages.	1999-02-24
US	52485836	R2IFVY2PI94AXI	0156006049	215866423	The Witch of Exmoor	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Author uses old-fashioned style for new look at society	If you read James Wood's review in the New York Times, you would get the wrong impression of this novel.  The reviewer, I think, completely misunderstood it.  The book is a attempt at a genre novel, notably a gothic  romance where the main character hides away in an isolated mansion and  behaves in a somewhat crazy fashion, at least in the view of her family.  Drabble  writes in the fashion of  a 19th century omniscient author who  intrudes and comments on the action; to return to the fashions of long ago  in this case is an experimental approach to the work. What she's trying to  do, I think, is jolt us into seeing contemporary England much like the 19th  century writers like Dickens offered a social critique of their times.  Woods calls Drabble's characters caricatures, but unlike Dickens'  portrayals, these characters are not types nor are they exaggerated.  They  are indeed individuals, but we see them more from the outside than the  inside.  There are many characters in this short novel; thus they can't be  as well rounded as Drabble's usual characters.<br />The main character, the  so-called witch, is not insane as Woods says, but merely eccentric.  She  alone seems to escape from the strictures of modern English society and  finds a meaningful kind of freedom.  Her grown children do not understand  her or appreciate her because they are too caught up in the necessities of  contemporary life in England: the materialism, the busyness, the indulgence  of children, etc.  The generation in the prime of life (her grown children)  has forgotten all about endeavors to reach a just society because they are  too well off and are distracted. Discussions concerning a just society are  just a game to these people who have every material advantage, but  something very essential has been lost and only the &quot;witch,&quot;  Frieda, has any idea what that might be.  The novel is a sophisticated  critique of contemporary life among the upper middle classes in England.  This novel deserves to be read.  Mr. Wood finds cliche where there is none  in this unique work.his novel deserves to be read.  Mr. Wood finds cliche where there is none  in this unique work.	1999-02-02
US	52485836	R29HY9PPRU3GLU	0061093920	941574380	Render Up the Body: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A thoughtful example of its genre	A bookclub I belong to recently invited Mimi Wesson to talk to our group about this book which we had all read. We discussed  whether or not we found the book to be a liberal tract as one of the reviews had suggested.   Of course, we are Boulderites, but we felt that the book showed an unusual  degree of ambiguity for its type. Ms. Wesson said that she tried to create  a main character who was in no way perfect or sure of her every move that  is typical of feminist heroines.  Cinda is plagued by doubts and pulled in  opposite directions.  She ends up defending a rapist--who is portrayed  rather sympathetically-- in spite of the objections of her feminist  friends.  She also said that she didn't decide the ending of the book until  she had written about two-thirds of it.  Other than a few  lapses--couldn't the dead body have been identified by fingerprints or  dental records? don't the characters talk in a jokey, adolescent  fashion?--the book is very intelligent and leaves the reader feeling  outraged that habeus corpus doesn't allow for the argument of innocence.   Wesson said that she regrets the law's emphasis on procedure at the expense  of truth and justice.  But this novel is not a polemic but an entertaining  legal thriller with the flavor of Boulder to add some spice.	1999-01-27
US	52485836	R2DE5N43NVFZJG	0671014730	785191741	She's Come Undone	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Flabby	Everything about this novel is flabby including the heroine.  First, nothing impels the plot to move forward; one tragic or abusive episode just follows another rather endlessly without the main character's changing very  much  or learning much until the end.  The book seems to follow the pattern  of much fiction aimed at women who have low self esteem but at the end dump  their husbands and take college classes.  The main character is flabby both  literally and figuratively and is rendered very superficially by the  author.  The biggest disappointment however is the flabby humor.  Much of  it consists of just nostalgic references to television shows or items of  pop culture; rarely is the humor satiric,  edgy, ironic,  or absurd.  It  tiptoes along, trying to be odd or Salingeresque but never rises to the  surreal level of even a John Irving.  I think that's because the author's  attitudes are basically sentimental.  And finally the worst fault is the  meaningless of the book as a whole; it's all so obvious.  What is new about  overweight people  eating to assuage pain? I think people like the book  because it confirms certain cultural myths that we believe in without  questioning.  Many reviewers complain the book is depressing, but what I  find depressing is the number of people who claim that this is the best  book they have ever read.  Ideally, books should challenge us to rethink  our assumptions instead of just accepting what our culture dishes out.   Readers such as Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro, Laurie Moore, Jane Smiley,  Toni Morrison, A. S. Byatt, to name a few, do that.	1999-01-07
US	52485836	R3GJ29JQAUCI8E	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Intriguing	I have been thinking about this book ever since I finished reading it several weeks ago.  What I find most interesting is the contrast in the behavior of the narrator and his lover in relation to the obsessive love  directed at the man.  I, a woman, found myself identifying with the woman  in the novel, dismissing the behavior of the deranged man as harmless and  unimportant and feeling that the narrator was overreacting. I found myself  in a state of tension brought about by the ambiguity of the situation.   Once the mystery was resolved, the book seemed much more ordinary. The  ambiguity was cleared up.  What I most appreciate about this book was the  imaginative way that the author tried to understand the two different  points of view  of the primary characters, man and woman.  It further  boggled my mind to realize that the appendix is apparently  an actual  document.  I looked up references listed and found them to actually exist.   This work is less a thriller than a philosophical construct on the nature  of perception.	1999-01-07
US	52485836	R3GM1E213DCEF9	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Middle age is not funny but this book is	If you are of a certain age this book could be your autobiography.  My husband and I almost felt this way when we read this book.  His experience with kidney stones and my experience on the faculty of a high school  English department made us both identify totally with the main character  and laugh out loud at the absurdity of his life spiraling downward dizzily  and hilariously. The pleasure of the catharsis we both experienced in being  able to laugh at ourselves vicariously was complete.  I had no idea that  English department politics are so ridiculous universally!  Well, if you  have to get older and face embarrassing health problems and loss of power  and status, it's great to be able to laugh at them as these problems are  portrayed by a genius of comedy.	1998-11-24
US	52485836	R1C88VLP920AUT	0684852683	514611459	Dreams Of My Russian Summers: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hard to get into but worth it	Because this novel is impressionistic, abstract, and dreamy at first it seems odd and plotless.  However, if you're like me, this novel will pull you in and begin to work its magic on you.  At first you may be put off by  the excessive romanticism exhibited here--the focus on dreams as more  significant than reality, the idealization of character, the emphasis on  nostalgia and memory, the  overwrought sensuality--but eventually you  realize that the emotion is sincere and not sentimental. You begin to  realize that the sketchy fragments do add up to a complete picture.  If you  are a lover of literature you begin to see the process that such a love is  instilled  in a child and how it can become the  most essential focus of  the mature individual's life.    I did not rate the novel with 5 stars  because it is flawed in parts, but it is well worth reading.	1998-11-24
US	52485836	R35YNW6M1NT5BL	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Beautifully written but lacks drama and characterization	I've been trying to figure out how readers can react so differently to this work.  It seems to me that those who react very favorably do so because they are taken in by the beauty of the language and the author's  great skill with description.  Possibly, these readers also buy into the  American myth that elevates &quot;country values&quot; of self-reliance,  simplicity, stoicism, endurance, etc. above the &quot;city values&quot; of  formal education, literature, formalized social convention, etc.  The novel  implies that Ada is too &quot;citified&quot; at the beginning (thus her  helplessness) and it is a great advance for her character to be able to  shoot turkeys.  Country life is greatly romanticized here as if it were  somehow nobler, and purer than life in the city.  Those who find the  book boring are reacting, I think, to the lack of drama and emotional  intensity.  There's very little passion expressed or even implied;  consequently reader involvement suffers.  If the characters had been more  interesting, that could have supplied drama, but they seem to be American  archetypes and not really  unique individuals.  Ada and Ruby at least  interact and are foils for each other.  Inman just keeps plodding along and  instead of the characters developing, they seem to change without the  necessary motivation.  The author, like Annie Dillard, seems taken with  the beauties of nature, but Dillard's novel The Living is a much better  incorporation of this bent.	1998-10-27
US	52485836	R15TTSP73YSTWD	0451186923	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Reader gets bored while main character wallows in grief	This novel unconsciously reflects a cultural expectation of our  child-centered society and that is that it expects parents of children who  die or are lost to sacrifice the remainder of their lives in unrelenting  grief as if this is the only way they can demonstrate the intensity of  their love.  Grief is an essential fact of life--one that teaches  compassion for others as well as acceptance of reality.  It should unite  people instead of isolating them to wallow in their pain.  Our culture used  to respect stoicism, but now may demand a kind of excessive self-pity, as  if this were honorable and not destructive to the self and others.  That's  what I object to in this novel.  I could bear the character of Beth  being unlikable, as so many have said, if she at least were interesting.   Her self-absorption is perhaps realistic, but she as a person is so dull!   Her &quot;noble&quot; gesture at the end really irked me; she didn't even  have the gumption  to fight for her child but just chose the path of least  conflict.  The only character of any interest was Vincent/Reese.   Although he seems a character from a young adult novel or a cliche from a  Fifties movie, he at least was somewhat passionate and vital.  The sections  of the book from his point of view were much more interesting.  The  author seemed to have difficulty deciding what the book was to be about: at  first it concentated on Beth, then it moved to Vincent, then it got  distracted with the kidnapper's motives, etc.  The author shows flashes  of creativity and understanding  (thus the 3 stars), but doesn't seem to  understand the necessities of dramatic action.  Suspense about what  happened to Ben will only take the reader so far.  For a really  interesting book on a similar subject try Ian McEwan's A Child in Time  (which unfortunately seems to be out of print).	1998-10-07
US	52485836	R2F2GSE2QHG1SD	0679779051	934079288	The Conversations at Curlow Creek	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thought-provoking	The suspense of the novel is provided by the reader's wondering if Adair  will hang an illiterate Irish convict at dawn or if he will yield to  compassion after talking and reminiscing with the man through the night.   The convict relates a story about a time that he was given a job to  impersonate someone under very mysterious circumstances which turned out to  be the only instance in the man's life that he was ever treated with any  kind of tenderness.  This story is marvelously told and does arouse the  reader's sympathy.  Soldier and convict are united by their Irish  backgrounds and the fact that they were both orphans whose fortunes,  however, were widely divergent. The reader comes to wonder which position  is more difficult: the convict's necessity of facing death at dawn or the  soldier's duty to be the executioner.  The author uses this situation as a  focus for a meditation on mortality that is philosophical and sometimes  mysterious.  This would be a good selection for a book group as multiple  interpretations of the meaning of the book are certainly possible.	1998-09-30
US	52485836	R2XTBYX6C239MJ	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Rebuttal	To those readers who say that it is surprising that the  &quot;memoirs&quot; were written by a man, I offer the following  rebuttal:<br />The author stereotypes women's emotions as the soap opera like  manipulations of exaggerated characters like Hatsumomo (the conflicts are  external rather than internal) ; he rationalizes  his inability to imagine  Sayuri's inner life by saying that a woman of her type wouldn't reveal  herself too much (see Amazon's interview with Golden) in a memoir; he fails  to imagine Sayuri's possible maternal instincts or fear of pregnancy; he  suggests that female love is obsessive and idealized as in Sayuri's love  for the Chairman, another stereotype; he suggests that Sayuri feels  physical aversion towards Nobu but in general I think men (more so than  women) want the object of love to be physically appealing.<br />I think the  book succeeds at the level of journalism but is seriously flawed as a  novel.  It tries to imitate Dickens in its depiction of a child being  exploited by a heartless adult world, its use of nicknames and epithets for  characters, and the revelation of mysterious benefactors.  However, Dickens  is an outmoded model for a contemporary novel.<br />Another criticims I have  is the conscious  attempt to trick readers into believing that the work is  nonfiction rather than fiction, a trend we have seen with &quot;Bridges of  Madison County&quot;'s journals and the author placing himself at the scene  in &quot;Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil&quot; when he wasn't  there.  A novel should rely on being true to experience and not to try to  deceive readers through gimmicks such as the phony translator's message at  the beginning.<br />The novel is worth reading in spite of its serious flaws  if the reader maintains some critical judgment and doesn't accept it all as  &quot;truth.&quot;	1998-08-25
US	52485836	R3ULZ83UA6HF1N	0140051996	512449782	The Sea, the Sea	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Profound	Although this book is overly long and not perfectly structured, it makes  up for these deficiencies by a degree of passion and intellect sorely  missing from much contemporary fiction.  The novel concerns a retired  theater director who moves to the seashore in order to contemplate his  life.  He recalls how an adolescent love which he greatly idealized  prohibited him from committing himself  completely to any of the important  women in his life.  Coincidentally, he meets the woman again and tries to  resume his love affair but she won't have him. He passionately refuses to  let her reject him this time and holds her prisoner in his house.  When his  friends from London come to visit him at this time, the situation  deteriorates into an amusing farce but with serious overtones.  <br />In spite  of the man's delusions, his passion is sublime; his deluded behavior is  paradoxically magnificent.  When he finally he comes to grips with the  reality, both he and the reader are very much saddened, although  enlightened.<br />It's really pleasurable to read such a complex novel that is  witty and compassionate and in the final analysis, wise.	1998-08-22
US	52485836	R99XRKDN3BPH1	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Contrivance leads to diminished emotional response	It seems to me that the author is trying to create a fairy tale or myth that combines Western and Eastern archetypes: the loss of an idealized world like the Garden of Eden, the crucifixion of innocents, Conrad's  Heart of Darkness, a fairy world like that in some of Shakespeare's plays, the twin motif from Eastern literature, incest, etc.  Thus the writing style which employs devices typical of oral literature such as repeated catch phrases which act as mnemonic devices. Whereas I admire such creativity and found the book very entertaining and original, I felt the author needed to trust the audience to read between the lines without having to telegraph the symbols and her point so obviously.  The problem is that such artificiality and contrivance diminish the emotional response of the reader.  The book's events are meant to be horrifying, but they don't seem real or convincing.  Also, most myths seem to be distilled down to their essence; such a concentration seems nec! ! essary to provide the universal significance.  Elements of realism distract.  Roy seems to want to have it both ways--to be mythic and realistic simultaneously.  A simpler approach might have been more effective.  She was at her best in the comic scenes, for example the welcome home &quot;play&quot; for Sophie Mol. She's at her worst with the adult Rahel and Estha's self-indulgent moping.  However, the book contains a lot pleasures and is definitely worth reading.	1998-07-15
