US	52490972	R23KP2X0QTILH1	0452287200	511094465	The Official Book of Sudoku: Book 1: 150 All-New Puzzles	Books	4	95	96	N	N	Perfect for a Novice Sudoku-er!	During a recent weeklong hotel stay, I became hooked on Sudoku doing the daily puzzles in the free USA Today newspaper.  I wanted more, more, more!  While I've since begun seeing more sudoku books and a few puzzle magazines (yay!), this was the first book I found and in my new addiction, happily handed over the full $10.00 retail price.  Since it took me about a month to complete the book, I would guess I got my money's worth.  As other reviewers have noted, it is pricey, especially since there is only one level of difficulty, which I would say is about advanced beginner level, somewhere between one and two stars on USA Today's difficulty scale.  By the time I finished the book I was ready for harder challenges, but the book kept me diverted and learning, and includes a helpful short text introduction with some rudimentary tips.  The best thing for me was the sturdy cover and higher quality paper that stood up to lots of erasing!  It's nice to have the magazines that are cheaper but they also get curled edges very quickly, and the paper quality isn't that great.  Finally, the grids are of a nice size that allows you to write in possible numbers as you work the puzzles. <br /> <br />I probably wouldn't buy it at the point where I am now with my sudoku-ing, but it was perfect for where I was at the time, and if you or someone you know is newly hooked (or you want to hook them) this is a good place to start!	2005-10-04
US	52490972	R1ZSRJBL7GJB0P	1570871531	979742834	The journal of a landlady: The Fletcher/Kennesaw House Diary	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Union Family in Georgia During the Civil War	This is a really neat little book, making available the personal diary of Louisa Warren Fletcher, born and raised in Massachusetts but living in Marietta, Georgia before, during and after the Civil War.  It covers the years from 1857 to 1883.  Her diary is interesting both in her outsider's view of the passions of the Confederates around her and her sharing in their suffering during wartime and occupation privations.  She is very sympathetic to the humanity on both sides of the divide.  Much of the book is taken up with notes on day to day life, milestones in the lives her family and children, books read--and apologies for her neglect of her diary. <br /> <br />It is this last that makes it a little bit of a frustrating read.  I wish Mrs. Fletcher had \\"taken pen in hand\\" a bit more often, as there are usually months-long gaps between entries.  Still this is a fairly unique primary source on a different viewpoint of a civilian woman observing the events of her time, particularly the Civil War. <br /> <br />The diary is augmented by copious and well written background material on Mrs. Fletcher and her descendents, including brief descriptions of the latter lives of the grandchildren she mentions being born over the course of the diary.  There are also several letters and the text of the sermon preached at her funeral in 1884.   <br /> <br />On the whole this is very interesting reading and worthwhile for both professional historians looking for primary sources on civilian or Union loyalist experiences of the Civil War, and general history buffs.   <br /> <br />Note:  according to the afterword, Mrs. Fletcher's house still stands in Marietta.  I plan to look for it next time I'm in that part of metro Atlanta!	2005-09-26
US	52490972	R2BRAWXVI9WX2F	0142004545	191328084	The Rice Mother	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Pulled Me In, Didn't Let Go	I bought this in a lot of 3 used books, all dealing with female characters of South Asian descent.  The other two are more fluffy chick-lit and the ones I bought the lot for--but when I picked up this novel and browsed through it, it immediately sucked me into its world and kept me there. <br /> <br />The central character is Lakshmi, and we see the wondrous and often frightening world of Malaysia in the first half of the 20th century largely through her eyes and experiences.  She marries and raises six children, fighting fiercely for them and facing terrible struggles and tragedies.  She is a fascinating character telling her story forthrightly.  At times I loved her and at times I wanted to reach into the book and shake her, but she and her world were 100% real to me as I read the book. <br /> <br />But she isn't the only narrator, and this is where the book became really fascinating to me.  Her husband, sons and daughters and eventually grandchild and great-grand child (as well as a few secondary characters) tell portions of the story through their eyes, adding perspective to the overall narrative and enlightening the reader on portions of the story that the other characters didn't directly observe.  Each of the characters had a very distinctive voice and the shifts in tone and narration added dimensions to the story.  Although the first half of the book is stronger with Lakshmi front and center, and loses some focus and steam once her grand daughter and great-grand daughter move to the forefront, events and themes ultimately come to a satisfying conclusion. <br /> <br />While the story can be at times quite harrowing and sad, it made for a great read and kept me completely engrossed in its world as I read.  I look forward to other books by this author. <br /> <br />Although I didn't read this as part of a reading group, the additional reading group materials in the back, including an interview with the author and discussion questions, enhanced my personal reading of the book and are worth a look as well. <br /> <br />If you remember fondly the generational sagas of 1970s and 1980s women's fiction (early Barbara Taylor Bradford, Belva Plain, etc) in which stories that start with one female character ultimately play out and resolve through her descendants, and like reading books set in lesser-known settings (I think this is the first book I've ever read set in Malaysia), check this out!	2005-09-12
US	52490972	R1HRVIMO99IKIV	0345463447	8078750	Funny Money (Tony Valentine)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Second in Series Has a Bit too Much Going On	I had a hard time rating FUNNY MONEY, the second in the series of mysteries by James Swain featuring freelance casino cheat-catcher Tony Valentine.  FUNNY MONEY sees Tony back in his original stomping grounds, Atlantic City, NJ, where he was a cop for many years and first developed his \\"grift sense\\" that let him see when a casino was being ripped off, even if he couldn't figure out exactly how right away. <br /> <br />Tony returns because he is a witness (via cellphone) to the horrific death of his old friend and partner, who is blown to bits while investigating a possible scam in an A.C. casino.  The convoluted plot in this novel is one of my favorites of the series, and the mystery of exactly who is stealing from the casino and exactly how they are doing it is suspenseful and well-developed. <br /> <br />I also was pleased by the setting, because I grew up very close to Atlantic City and lived in the area when the casinos first moved in and have seen the developments, good and bad, that gambling has wrought on the whole southern Jersey shore in the 25+ years since.  But I was also a kid at the time, and to see an older character like Tony talking about the old days when the casinos first came in and Atlantic City was a \\"candy store\\" for hustlers was interesting, since to me the casinos just meant lots of Frank Sinatra billboards on all the seashore causeways.  Living now for nearly 2 decades in the landlocked south, I relish any story that can make me smell the special salt-air tang of the Jersey shore where I grew up. <br /> <br />Where the story let me down and where it felt like the author tried to cram too much in was in the huge cast of characters.  In addition to welcome returning secondary characters like Tony's son and his faithful neighbor (now employee) Mabel, who are further developed and fleshed out in this book, Swain adds old friends, acquaintances and enemies from Valentine's police career, including the family of his deceased partner, other cop buddies, his judo sensei and a potential love interest. <br /> <br />These last two were the most problematic.  There's a great story waiting to be told about Yun, Tony's long time judo teacher and coach, but he's wasted here on a somewhat silly side storyline about a former judo student who has turned his tradition and honored family crest into props for a pro wrestling gig.  The whole plot detracts from the main action and seems mainly designed to give Tony a possible girlfriend, but once the two are together (somewhat unbelievably), Swain doesn't seem to know where to go with it. <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong--I like both characters, and the love interest is an intriguing choice for Tony's first involvement since the death of his beloved wife.  This subplot could have worked but not in the time allotted to it in a book already crammed with characters and plot.  Instead it distracts and detracts from a book that would have been tighter and more compelling without it. <br /> <br />That said, I still read this book in less than two days and went right on to the next in the series, so it's still certainly worth reading and has plenty to recommend it.  If I were giving it a letter grade it would be a B-.	2005-08-17
US	52490972	RUYQ7F2AVOJ94	0345463838	654078703	Grift Sense (Tony Valentine)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun Series off to a Good Start	GRIFT SENSE is the first book in a series of mysteries featuring retired cop Tony Valentine.  As an Atlantic City police officer, he specialized in busting \\"crossroaders\\", hustlers who would try to scam the casinos.  In his retirement he has started a consulting business, and is known around the world as one of the best for spotting scams.  This debut has Tony trying to uncover dirty doings in an old-time Las Vegas casino, the kind of place where the greek statues out front look suspiciously like the owner's ex-wives, complete with their impressive bosoms.  The casino is struggling to stay afloat in the new mega-resort laden Las Vegas, and is threatening to sink from within as a blackjack scam is losing money quickly. <br /> <br />Enter Tony, who slowly unravels the twists and turns of the intricate plot against the casino.  Some of the twists were predictable, some I didn't see coming at all.  The plot kept me turning the pages. <br /> <br />But even more, the character of Tony pulled me in.  He's an old-fashioned guy, still mourning for his deceased wife, often cranky at the ways of the modern world.  YOu don't see too many retirement age PIs in mystery novels, particularly of the non-cozy variety.  A supporting cast of characters, including his faithful Florida friend Mabel and Tony's no-good son Gerry (who you sense would really like to be better, but tends too often to take the low road) round things out and promise developments further along in the series. <br /> <br />I had piled up the first four books in this series before reading GRIFT SENSE, and as soon as I finished it I plunged into the next one, and the one after that.  It's a series I plan to stick with.	2005-08-15
US	52490972	R21VNUECAZMHV2	3791329332	723478091	Boris Carmi: Photographs from Israel (German Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful Photography, Beautiful Book	Boris Carmi was one of the premier Israeli photojournalists from the time of the founding of the nation through the 1970s.  This book, BORIS CARMI: PHOTOGRAPHS FROM ISRAEL provides an excellent introduction to his photography and overview of his career.  Three introductory essays set the context for his photography and then the photos take over.  The first several sections are the most fascinating, documenting the Arab-Israeli war of 1948 and the arrival of Jews in the new nation of Israel from around the world--old world European Jews as well as Jews from places like Morocco and Yemen.  The hopefulness and determination in the faces and the beauty of the land (urban and rural) is inspiring, even as the viewer remains aware of the people displaced to make way for such scenes (Palestinians are shown only in defeat and surrender in the photos from 1948, and fleeing into Jordan in photos from the 1967 war).   <br /> <br />Other sections include a chapter of landscape photographs, photos of Tel Aviv, shots of historical contemporaries from David Ben-Gurion to Golda Meir, Robert Oppenheimer to Leonard Bernstein, and artistic photos of women.   <br /> <br />Beyond their subject matter, the photographs are great examples of mid 20th century black and white photojournalism, very much like the best of Life magazine in their style--crisp, clean, clear and iconic.  An excellent book and an excellent tribute to a master photographer.	2005-07-26
US	52490972	R1752JWQ8S24A7	186154278X	309221214	Drive by Shooting	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Lavish Presentation of Mediocre Pictures	This is a huge coffeetable book with heavy paper and the whole high-quality works.  However, the photos contained within are, well, kind of lame.  The theme of the book, as the title DRIVE BY SHOOTING suggests, is photos taken in transit, in vehicles or from the windows of cars and trains.  While that idea has potential, the views chosen are uninteresting in the extreme--stretches of highway, industrial areas, yellow-looking people on subway trains.  Many of them look like the sort of tourist shots-out-the-window that you struggle to explain years later when looking through a photo album--what was I trying to take a photo of?  The photographer traveled all over the world from India to London to South Africa and beyond to assemble this collection.  It seems like a waste of time to me.	2005-07-26
US	52490972	R33WTG93HHEY5X	0451208552	621446208	Shop Till You Drop: A Dead-End Job Mystery	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nice Summer Diversion, Good Start to a Series	SHOP TIL YOU DROP by Elaine Viets is the first in a series of \\"Dead End Job Mysteries\\" featuring heroine Helen Hawthorne, who used to have a high paid career and upscale lifestyle.  Because she's hiding from something in her past, Helen has gone \\"off the map\\", laying low in south Florida and only working jobs where she can be paid off the books in cash.  One of the ongoing mysteries, slowly revealed in this book, is what exactly Helen did that led her into hiding. <br /> <br />Another is what is going on behind the locked (admittance by invitation only, dahling) green door of the tony Fort Lauderdale boutique where Helen works.  She slowly realizes that her co-worker, boutique manager Christina, is not quite on the up-and-up, and when Christina leaves on vacation and doesn't come back, Helen has to figure out exactly what Christina has been doing to support her fancy lifestyle on a retail clerk's income. <br /> <br />The mystery plot is mildly interesting, but predictable--it turns out that like the denizens of Wisteria Lane in Desperate Housewives, many of the priveleged, pampered ladies who shop at the boutique are hiding not so ritzy secrets in their lives.   <br /> <br />While the mystery plot might keep me reading through this book, it was the cast of secondary characters who will keep me coming back for more.  I'm still undecided about how well I like Helen herself--hopefully as I see more of her in the sequels to this book, she'll develop a bit more gumption (I'm not entirely convinced of the worth of her motivations for going into hiding, for one thing)--but I definitely want to see more of the other eccentric denizens of the low-rent old-fashioned Florida apartment complex where Helen lives, and who become a surrogate family helping her to solve her mystery and keep her low-profile life going.  There's the no-nonsense, 70-something landlady, the neighbor lady with the pet parrot who has plan after plan for winning the lottery, the invisible guy next door who seems to exist only in a haze of pot smoke coming from his apartment...there are elements of DAve Barry or Carl Hiassen lite in the cast, and they are by far the most intriguing part of the book, and the part that will have me checking out the sequels in this series.	2005-07-26
US	52490972	R3DOZNF5XHZK6J	0156013363	666826976	Postville: A Clash of Cultures in Heartland America	Books	4	77	83	N	N	It's a Memoir, It's not Supposed to Be Objective...	I picked this book up randomly, at a thrift store, but I am always fascinated by non-fiction books that offer glimpses into other cultures and in books that look at the assimilation or non-assimilation of various groups into the American mainstream.  POSTVILLE: A CLASH OF CULTURES IN THE HEARTLAND OF AMERICA is the portrait of a typical small midwestern town (almost stereotypical, as the author waxes on about parades, agricultural festivals, and kids who don't have to lock up their bikes in front of the corner stores) trying to come to grips with a settlement of militantly anti-assimilationist settlers in their midst:  a group of Hassidic Lubavitcher Jews who have purchased the closed meat packing plant and reopened it as kosher slaughterhouse, bringing economic life back to the town but unearthing a host of conflicts with the locals over a host of issues of custom and lifestyle. <br /> <br />Many of the reviews of POSTVILLE here take issue with the author coming down on one side or the other of the division in Postville, Iowa and thus finding the book flawed because it is not objective. <br /> <br />But Bloom never pretends to be writing an objective or sociological treatise.  The book is as much a memoir of his own coming to terms with his internal conflict between his Jewishness and his feelings of being a fish out of water in Iowa, and his longing to find a place that he fits in--is it by a deeper embrace of his Jewishness and thus his differences, or by further assimilation?  A main part--if not the main point-- of the story is his own developing attitudes and his eventual realization that he has chosen to support one side--and thus one way of life--over the other. <br /> <br />Over a period of several years, Bloom makes trip after trip to Postville, at first drawn by the incongruous settlement of Jews there, and perhaps seeking a spiritual connection and answer to his own feelings of isolation.  Bloom becomes fascinated with the schisms in Postville between the native (and nearly 100% Christian) Iowans and the Jewish newcomers who seem determined to stay separate and who seemingly deliberately flout local conventions of politeness, neatness and unassuming behavior.   <br /> <br />As Bloom interviews numerous people in Postville, both Jewish newcomers and Postville natives, the schism in the town gradually coalesces around the issue of a referendum on annexing the land that the slaughterhouse is on, allowing the town to possibly exert more control over the business there and by extension, perhaps, the Jews.  Both the native Iowans and several of the Lubavitchers reach out to him, telling him of their viewpoints and trying to recruit him to their point of view. <br /> <br />Bloom reports what he is shown by both sides, and in the end finds that he comes to support the native Iowans rather than the Jews.  He does seem to give breaks to the native Iowans for sometimes nakedly anti-semitic statements (particularly when they move from concrete, personally unpleasant experiences with individual Lubavitchers in the town to generalizations about \\"the Jews\\" and the way all Jews are.  On the other hand, some of the unpleasant behaviors of some of the Jews in the town feed entirely too neatly into a larger world of nasty stereotypes waiting to be applied.) <br /> <br />Bloom's conclusion seems to be that the Iowans he deals with, both in Postville and in Iowa City, are by nature of long isolation and homogeneity suspicious of and slow to welcome any outsiders, Jewish or otherwise, and that they are willing to try to get along with people who try to get along with them.  The Lubavitchers, with their unconcealed attitudes of superiority, their rufusal to moderate even some of their behaviors in deference to local custom (even behaviors that don't infringe at all on their beliefs, such as keeping their yards neat or refraining from attempting to bargain prices at the stores, which the townsfolk see as insulting) and their complete disinterest in having any sort of relationship with the people they are living alongside, consistently show no inclination at all to try to get along.  And Bloom, as a Jew and an outsider, ultimately chooses the path of trying to fit in over that of flaunting his difference.  He chooses as his role model Doc Wolf, the legendary doctor of Postville and surrounding areas who for over 60 years doctored the locals, delivered babies and made housecalls, with most people unaware that he was Jewish and those who did not caring.   <br /> <br />This is certainly a book well worth reading, but it's best to read it as one man's personal odyssey distilled through his observations of a larger sociological moment, than as a work of anthropological or sociological objectivity or disinterest.  Of course, held to the latter standard it will fail, because that's not what the book ever set out to be.	2005-07-26
US	52490972	R31411MYSH4DDX	0821227750	796408052	Shots in the Dark: True Crime Pictures	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Stunning and Fascinating Photos, NOT for the Squeamish!	First the positive.  The photos in this book are amazing and intense, dating from the beginning of the age of photography to the late 1990s.  The terribly violent photos from the first half of the 20th century are a good reminder that the present day didn't invent violent crime.  The skill of some of the photographers and the quality of many of the photos is also amazing. <br /> <br />In addition to actual crime scene photos, there are photos of criminals, suspects, inmates, victims ranging from the extremely small time to the infamous (Berkowitz, Manson, Bundy). <br /> <br />My main complaint with this book is that it is all over the place. It's hard to find a unifying theme other than all the photos have something to do with crime, and many are extremely gory and sensational.  There's a lot of text but it rarely matches up well with the photos and basically seems like a long winded justification for publishing a bunch of really gross photos. <br /> <br />NOt that I have anything against gross photos, but it seems hypocritical to dress them up in psedo-scholarly meditations on crime and punishment when you know that's not REALLY what people are reading the book for. <br /> <br />The book's cover does note that it is based on a Court TV documentary, which may explain the scattershot mix of themes and narration; if it is intended as a tie-in or supplement to other material it is more understandable, but it would be preferable if the book could stand on its own. <br /> <br />Nevertheless, if you are interested in crime scene photography or the history of crime depiction, this is worth a look.	2005-07-26
US	52490972	R24FPM94M2KXHL	068971257X	570328158	The Wuggie Norple Story	Books	5	8	8	N	N	It's a Shame that This Book is Out of Print!	I first bought this book in the late 1980s when looking for good read aloud books for my youngest brother.  It made me laugh out loud reading it in the bookstore so I bought it for him and he enjoyed it immensely too.  It's almost impossible to read this aloud without cracking up, with the absurd story (dad brings home a cat that keeps growing bigger, and then he brings home progressively larger animals to compare it to) and especially the brilliantly weird names (Lunchbox Louie, King Waffle, Papercup Mixmaster, Exploding Poptart).  This is a classic of zany kid humor that is great fun for adults to read over and over, too.  I'd love to buy it for my little nieces and nephews---please bring it back into print!	2005-07-25
US	52490972	R1XSZATLPMWM9M	0684849143	103946658	Why We Buy: The Science Of Shopping	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Absolutely Fascinating	Paco Underhill and his consulting firm have made a study of the psychology of shopping--watching and taping people as they make their way through stores, determining how the layout and placement of fixtures and items encourages or discourages sales.  He lays out his conclusions in Why We Buy, in language accessible to a lay reader, heavy on anecdotes rather than charts or stats.   <br /> <br />This is a must-read if you are a retailer yourself, of any kind, and even if you aren't, will give you ideas for your next garage or rummage sale!  And even if you are merely a shopper, it will change your shopping experience as you become more aware of the tricks of placement that are maneuvering you into buying more (or fleeing the store).  I've also enjoyed doing a small imitation of Underhill's researchers and watch others shop.  It's fascinating!  This is a book that will change your experience of an important part of every day life, well worth reading.	2005-07-24
US	52490972	R3QMAGOX1UB9ZJ	038528019X	658837510	The Adventures of Holly Hobbie	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great YA Novel with Little Connection to Holly Hobbie Fad	I loved this book as a kid but even though I was a big fan of the Holly Hobbie stuff (had the doll, tea set etc) and originally picked up the book from the library for the title, I quickly realized it was a weird fit between the storyline and Holly HObbie.  But it had elements of a story that I loved as a kid and which are still classic kid lit plots. <br /> <br />Liz Dutton is sure that her father, who disappeared in Central America while searching for the Maya ruins of the lost Jaguar City, is still alive, even though no one else believes it.  While spending Thanksgiving with her grandparents, she finds a portrait of a beautiful teenage girl, painted in 1803--Holly Hobbie, complete with familiar patchwork dress and sunbonnet.  As she stares at the picture, it seems to shimmer and come to life, and suddenly the girl from 1803 is standing in front of her. <br /> <br />Together LIz and Holly take off to try to solve the mystery of what happened to Liz's father, Holly taking in the 20th century with wide eyes all the while.  They travel from New York to DC to New Orleans to Mexico, experiencing adventure and danger.   <br /> <br />The time traveling heroine, the secret friend, and the child going in search of and rescuing the parent make this a classic kid lit story, enhanced by the sturdy hardcover binding, and beautiful painted illustrations and maps.  Well worth discovering...or re-discovering!	2005-07-24
US	52490972	R2ZXNTW2F7YT11	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Holds up amazingly well	I read the original 4-issue miniseries in 1986 (wish I still had those copies!) and it turned me on to a whole new world of comics that I still feel quite passionate about...but I hadn't looked at the original DKR in a long time. <br /> <br />With the recent Batman movie, I pulled this book off the shelf and re-read it from the beginning for the first time in years.  What struck me this time is, considering that it's nearly 20 years old, how un-dated and still contemporary it seems.  Miller did a masterful job of imagining a near future world with speaking styles, dress conventions and an urban look and feel that feel fresh and just-out-of-tomorrow as it did in 1986.  The one jarring anachronism is the Reaganesque president, but an out of touch flaky President doesn't seem that unrealistic after all...the master stroke, then as now, though, is the overlay of snippets of media coverage providing a narrative framework of background information and reaction to Batman's re-emergence after 10 years of \\"retirement\\".  A world of 24-7 news coverage, much of it vacuous and filled with stupid chatter, was more on the horizon than \\"of the now\\" when this book was first written, but the device gives it a current day timeliness that even Miller might be surprised at.   <br /> <br />An amazing accomplishment then, and remains one today, and a seminal influential work on the storytelling style of just about every comic book out there now, as Frank Miller's \\"edge\\" has become solidly, even cliched mainstream.  See where it all began.	2005-07-23
US	52490972	R9W8L0YCO2U2H	0399152466	33871656	Dead Run	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Different From the First Two, But Still Excellent!	The third outing for the Monkeewrench crew finds Grace, Annie and Sharon (Wisconsin deputy from the first book, now on loan to the FBI) traveling from Minneapolis to Green Bay, Wisconsin.  Along the way their car breaks down and they stumble into a town where everyone has mysteriously vanished, and progressively more sinister developments are taking place.   <br /> <br />Unlike the first two books which were more whodunnit mysteries, this is straight up slam-bang suspense as the three women pool all their considerable resources to survive their predicament and the rest of the now-familiar characters--Minneapolis detectives Maggozzi and Rolseth, the Monkeewrench geeks, and (welcome back!) Wisconsin sheriff Mike Halloran and deputy Bonar Carlson--race to their rescue as it becomes increasingly clear that not only as something horrible happened in the isolated Wisconsin town, but sinister forces are trying to make it happen again, on a larger scale. <br /> <br />A couple of reviews have pointed out the preposterousness of the plot, and it is one of those books that you read breathlessly and then put down and think, now waaaaiit a minute, that is kind of unbelievable--but while you are caught up in it it's totally believable, and I'm okay with spending a few hours like that.   <br /> <br />Again, the characters are what drew me in and kept me involved with the story.  The development of their intertwining plotlines, like Magozzi's slowly blooming romance with Grace and Sharon's with Mike Halloran, makes this more than a routinely forgettable thriller.  The idea of three women kicking ass and getting themselves out of their predicament, plus the touches of humor amid the suspense and horror, are just icing on the cake. <br /> <br />This is another book I devoured in a day, and my only disappointment is that I now have to wait until the next book comes out to spend more time with these memorable characters! <br /> <br />Again, highly recommended but also recommended thatyou read this series in order:  Monkeewrench, followed by Live Bait, followed by Dead Run.	2005-07-23
US	52490972	R3C791N9QRR05G	0451214633	745582648	Live Bait (A Monkeewrench Novel)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Another winner from P.J. Tracy	After leaving Tracy's debut novel, Monkeewrench, sitting in my to-be-read pile for over a year (accumulating the next two books in the series in the meantime, before I've read any of them), I finally picked it up and read it last week.  I loved it so much that I moved on to the next two books in the series as soon as I finished the first! <br /> <br />Live Bait opens with a mystery as intriguing as the serial killer in Monkeewrench.  This time the bodies belong to elderly people in Minneapolis, living quiet lives and as far as anyone can tell, well-loved by those around them.  The one thing they have in common is that they are Jewish concentration camp survivors.  All have been shot.  There's also the odd murder in the mix--an equally elderly man who was not a camp survivor, killed not by gunfire but by being tied to a railroad track with wire and essentially frightened into a heart attack by the train bearing down on him.   <br /> <br />The detective team of Magozzi and Rolseth take the center stage in this book, and we also get to know the rest of their squad a little better as the story unfolds.  The Monkeewrench gang of programmers reappears but aren't as prominent in this story as the first, but their appearances in the plot are always memorable.  Magozzi and Rolseth are both achingly human as they struggle with their own changing emotions toward the victims and their suspects, including the victims' seemingly blameless family members.  As the plot moves along rapidly more and more secrets are revealed.  I again enjoyed the \\"double twist\\"--more of a triple twist--in the final revelations in the story--I could partially anticipate \\"who dunnit\\" but not completely. <br /> <br />I like the way that Tracy takes a storyline that seems wildly outlandish (and it is) and grounds it in characters who are so well developed that it all becomes terribly believable.  And once again, I finished the book and dove headlong into the next one in order to spend more time with characters I'm becoming very attached to! <br /> <br />Highly recommended, and make sure you read this series in order--check out Monkeewrench before you read Live Bait!	2005-07-22
US	52490972	R1HDZJYZE2Y3H3	045121157X	370279775	Monkeewrench (A Monkeewrench Novel)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Awesome Debut!	I finally got around to reading this book in my massive to-be-read pile (I'd already piled up the next two books by this mother-daughter writing team based on the great reviews).  Wow!  Hard to believe they are first-timers. <br /> <br />First, the mystery aspect of the novel is intriguing.  What do a dead elderly couple in Wisconsin, a series of serial killings in Minneapolis staged to look like those in a video game, and the mysterious pasts of a bunch of computer programmers have in common?  The clues unravel efficiently and the twists and turns of the plot kept me turning the pages as fast as I could read them.  The clever double twist of the plot really entertained me as I had the satisfaction of mostly figuring out one aspect of the mystery but still be surprised by the ending. <br /> <br />But what really hooked me was the cast of intriguing characters.  There are the Monkeewrench folks, especially the heroine Grace, who is so scarred by something in her past that she is always heavily armed, lives in a veritable fortress of a home, and will only wear long heavy riding boots for shoes.  Surrounding her protectively are a bunch of other misfits with lots of personality quirks.  And working to solve the mystery are two sets of likeable cops, the Minneapolis detective team of Maggozzi and Rolseth, and the Wisconsin sheriff and his department.  They all interact delightfully and several potential relationships begin in this book.  It's the likeable characters that hooked me on the series, and made me immediately dive into the next two books to spend more time with them and see how they develop.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend this novel, and highly recommend that you read P.J. Tracy's books in order to avoid spoilers!	2005-07-22
US	52490972	R362JKPL3HQ035	0743477146	675408189	Let the Church Say Amen	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Little Bit Shallow But I Kept Turning the Pages!	This is the story of a family in turmoil.  The seemingly perfect pastor of a medium-large Houston African-American church, Rev. Simon Jackson, has a smoothly running ministry but trouble at home.  His long-suffering wife Loretta is caught between her choice to follow him as her leader and head of the household, and her feeling that his neglect and hard attitude toward his children is a mistake that is making things worse.  And the kids are a mess!  The oldest son is a drug addict, the daughter, with two babies by two different men, puts the drama in \\"baby mama drama\\" and the younger son, the one that Simon thinks is the perfect one who will follow in his footsteps, is hiding a secret that is making him miserable.  As his family life continues to unwind, other events are coming that will shock Simon out of his complacency with his life and his judgmental ways with his children. <br /> <br />While the events kept me turning pages and there were a few surprises, the characterizations of each of the main players could have been more substantial.  I especially felt that in the case of the daughter, Rachel, who comes off as an unsympathetic brat most of the time (but who, I confess, added most of the page-turning action to the story, wondering what her crazy butt would do next).  Things are on the road to resolution by the end of the story but it's hard to see what changes have occurred (again, especially in the case of Rachel) and the wrap up was a bit rushed.  There were so many events where I wanted to see more into the characters' heads for their deeper emotions and reactions, but the storyline rushed on to another development instead.  Maybe a sequel is in the works? <br /> <br />Anyway, it was a pretty good read--like I said, I kept turning the pages and read it pretty much in one sitting--but just a little less than fully satisfying.  However, as a non-African-American non-churchgoer, the setting of a church and pastor's family was also a fascinating glimpse into apart of everyday life that I hadn't seen before.	2005-07-22
US	52490972	R1P4T5QLZG23DL	0689832133	819828038	Click, Clack, Moo Cows That Type	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another big hit with my nephews!	Purchased last year as a birthday gift, this book was a big hit with my nephews aged 2 and 4, and with their mom and dad as well.  The story is simple--the cows come into possession of a typewriter, and begin leaving notes with demands for the farmer, culminating in a milk and egg strike by the barnyard animals.  It's a cute story, humorously told, with a \\"surprise\\" ending.  Fun for kids and parents too.	2005-07-19
US	52490972	R3E7WDFNOAVTHQ	1575669153	270489394	He's Just A Friend (Soulmates Dissipate)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Terrible Writing, But I Couldn't Stop Reading!	I picked this up on a whim and was immediately drawn in by the soap opera of Fancy's life, with her various \\"sponsors\\" who she deftly juggles to keep all her high maintenance life style paid for.  The two main competitors for Fancy's affections are a flashy guy who treats Fancy very casually and who may be married to boot, and a good guy who always comes through for Fancy, but whose working class lifestyle leads Fancy to always insist that \\"he's just a friend.\\"  In contrast to Fancy is SaVon, a good church girl who is saving herself for the perfect man, and her slowly developing romance with recovering playa Tyrrone. <br /> <br />I was repeatedly frustrated with the poor level of writing and grammar in the book, not just in hilarious sentences like \\"Her eyes traveled all over the room as soon as she walked in\\" but in the way that plot developments would be long hinted at, and then never resolved (Fancy's relationship with her mother is continually alluded to but never shown) or resolved abruptly off-screen (SaVon's long awaited meeting with her mother).  The plot jerks here and there, with major plot developments getting only a paragraph or two, while pages can be spent on Fancy's grooming routine....of course the latter is part of the guilty pleasure of this book and probably the reason I kept turning pages.  The characters were over-the-top unbelievable in their one dimensional materialism, especially Fancy, but at the same time, like an episode of Dynasty, it was hard to look away.	2005-07-19
US	52490972	R10JT0DDI1D3IN	068983568X	323759442	Chicka Chicka Boom Boom	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A favorite of my nephew's	As I am the designated book shopper of the family, my sister mentioned to me when my nephew was about 6 months old that he was really getting into books with a rhythm to them, and that she was interested in an ABC book for him.  I found this book and sent it off to them, and it was very popular with both my nephew and his siblings.  I've since bought it as a kids gift for lots of other kids!  The bouncy beat of the story and the personification of the letters as they dance, climb trees etc. makes the story fun and offers painless learning.	2005-07-19
US	52490972	R2NKW26PUH1IXG	0307157857	947935231	Richard Scarry's Cars and Trucks and Things That Go	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Passing Richard Scarry on to the next generation...	I loved Richard Scarry books when I was an older sister looking for library books for my younger siblings--the stories and recurring characters were fun, but the most fun was looking for the little jokes scattered throughout the book...the appearances of Lowly Worm or Bugdozer in the margins of pictures, the mix of fanciful (the alligator mobile) with the mundane cars on the same street.  It's a book that can be read aloud for the main story, or provide hours of fun looking at the pictures for all the details.  I got this particular Richard Scarry book for my 2 year old nephew as he is a big fan of all \\"things taht go\\" and my sister told me that it was an extra big hit, since he had previously had a copy of the book that was destroyed in an unfortunate book tearing incident, and he was overjoyed to have a new copy!	2005-07-19
US	52490972	R3TJY069NJ5GL4	1401300901	846801106	PS, I Love You: A Novel	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Deeper than chick lit, not quite literature...	I read this book at a very rapid pace and found myself alternately smiling and tearing up throughout.  It's the story of how a widow, left too soon by a husband who died of cancer too young, survives the first year of widowhood and slowly comes back to life, helped along by a monthly letter and surprise left behind by her husband.  It reminded me of a Maeve Binchy novel with a younger, more urban sensibility.  Excellent beach read, if you don't mind getting a bit choked up on the beach...	2005-06-15
US	52490972	R32PFRDM6RYL76	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Slow Start, Picks Up Steam	It took me forever to pick this book up off my shelf, and several days to plow through the first 40 pages, but once Dr. Cherijoe Grey Veil makes planet fall at the colony where she will be a trauma doctor, the plot took off and I was hooked, reading the rest of the book in about a day.  Cherijoe herself and a large cast of supporting characters are very well drawn and an action-filled space opera plot keeps things moving nicely.  I'm going to be looking for the rest of this series!	2005-05-05
US	52490972	R1BWS83HKD91ZX	0765314711	907231160	Gil's All Fright Diner	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fantastic, Fun and Funny Debut...More Please!	Loved this book, laughed my way through it.  With a zombie-addled diner, a couple of grumpy rednecks who also happen to be a vampire and werewolf, a touching romance with a ghost, a teenager determined to raise the Old Gods and bring about the end of the world and even a ghostly dog, what more could anyone want?  It was like Christopher Moore meets Jeff Foxworthy, or a bit like Good Omens with a Texas twang.  Certainly no one's idea of a challenging novel, but for a light fun read that will make you laugh, give it a try!	2005-05-05
US	52490972	R38R8QHED57RE2	1565122798	771083932	Educating Esmé: Diary of a Teacher's First Year	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fast Funny Read, but Left Me With Questions	I read this book in just a couple of hours, as it goes down as quick and easy as popcorn.  Esme Codell is a dedicated and imaginative teacher and I loved a lot of the ideas she used in her classroom.  I bet she will be well-remembered by her students.  My favorite parts of the books, and the anecdotes I shared with my friends the day I was reading the book, had to do with interactions with her students and some of the things they'd say, or Esme's creative ideas for discipline. <br /> <br />The administration in the school sounds downright bizarre, though, and here's where my complaints come in.  I agree with some of the other reviewers that Esme comes off at times as pretty self-centered and I wondered how on earth the principal and vice-principal could be THAT incompetent and offensive and get away with it, which made me question their portrayal.  My biggest problem though, was the same thing that gave the book a lot of its charm and readability--the diary format and anecdotal narrative made for an easy breezy read, but again and again I found myself frustrated by occasions where I felt that I was only hearing a small part of the story, particularly when it came to the politics of the school administration and the overall school system.  Things would get mentioned with no explanation of their significance, and then would never be seen again (like the Michael Jordan foundation grant money issues for example).  Still, it was a memorable read--the best parts of Esme's teaching were in conveying her deep love for books and reading, and I think that her current role as author and reading advocate will convey that without the drawbacks of teaching.  I look forward to reading her book about getting kids to love books and reading.	2004-11-30
US	52490972	R8U8SKVA4LC64	0618493336	298573941	100 Words Almost Everyone Confuses and Misuses	Books	5	27	29	N	N	I still get confused by LIE and LAY....	...and I've finally found something I can keep close at hand for moments like that.  100 Words Almost Everyone Confuses and Misuses is an awesome reference source that takes up very little desk space and is easily kept handy for moments when you are wondering whether you are seeking a \\"discreet\\" or \\"discrete\\" affair, or if a combustible gas is \\"flammable\\" or \\"inflammable.\\"  Moreover each entry carefully explains the origins of the word, the controversies over usage, and the proper context for a particular use of a word.  Every entry has a note, although some of the notes are cross-references to another word where the full explanation is found (\\"flammable\\" for example, references \\"inflammable\\").  This is a great gift for the student or writer in your life, or for anyone who cares about correct word usage!	2004-11-01
US	52490972	R3PZ87F2J1UM6E	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Excellent Historical Novel by Gregory!	I finished The Other Boleyn Girl last week and went right on to The Queen's Fool, and again, couldn't put the book down, finishing it in less than 48 hours.  Like The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queen's Fool tells the story of great events in Tudor history--in this case, the great succession battles between the death of Henry's only son, Edward, through the final ascension of Elizabeth.  The most surprising part of the book to me was the great sympathy I came to feel for Queen &quot;Bloody&quot; Mary, who came to the throne wanting to rule wisely and mercifully and who became a despised tyrant, burning Protestant heretics and executing anyone suspected of plotting against her.  Gregory shows how Mary's circumstances lead her almost inevitably to the horrific outcomes, yet you feel sorry for her and repelled at the same time.  And like Gregory's previous book, the great events are viewed through someone watching from the sidelines and caught up against their will--in this case, Hannah Green, a converso fleeing the Inquisition in Spain, whose gift of foretelling the future makes her Robert Dudley's servant and spy in two great royal households, while trying to make sense of her own life and hidden faith.  I loved this book as much as The Other Boleyn Girl and recommend both highly, and can't wait to tackle more of Philippa Gregory's backlist.	2004-03-20
US	52490972	R2JAMJ4LB8HL51	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Riveting Historical Novel!	I've been in the mood for a good historical novel lately and I found it in spades in The Other Boleyn Girl.  This is the story of the swirl of plotting and romance around Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn and the many others with an interest in unseating Katherine of Aragon and making Anne Henry's new queen.  I love a historical novel that makes you truly feel the times and this book does so; moreover the rich writing and portrayal of historical detail is meshed in a plot that while familiar to any student of history, is still suspenseful because you come to care for all the players' fates.  The master stroke was telling the story through the conflicted viewpoint of Anne's sister, Mary, who was Henry's lover before Anne.  She can see what is both admirable and loathsome in those around her at court, especially Henry and Anne themselves, and since her side of the story is less well-known, the suspense comes in seeing how she will make it through the tragic turn of events when Anne is inevitably rejected.  A truly excellent historical novel.	2004-03-20
US	52490972	R1LYOM4VZQ0QP2	0061082570	794089736	Wings of the Storm	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Fun Time Travel, Fast Read	I picked this up at a used bookstore, recognizing the author's name from her currently popular vampire series.  This novel features Jane Florian, a medieval history specialist who is launched against her will into the Middle Ages in a time travel experiment.  Stuck there, she establishes herself as chatelaine of a local castle and concentrates on making the teenage lord and lady a successful couple, while fighting her own attraction to Sir Daffyd, a local knight.  I loved reading Jane/Jehane's adventures, as she constantly balanced her impulse to make life better with her fear of drastically changing history.  There was a fun twist in the romance with Sir Daffyd, and the explanations, when they were given, went a long way toward making the twist believable.  The fast pace, good characterization and high level of quality in the writing made this an entertaining read.	2003-08-01
US	52490972	R31L45RCOJTDH	0345462270	475675876	Gone Too Far (Troubleshooters, Inc. 6)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Absolutely Worth the Wait!	I have enjoyed the Sam and Alyssa storyline although I was not quite at the level of fan intensity that I've seen around the 'net--particularly after Into the Night, where Sam came off looking SO bad, I wondered how he could be redeemed.  I was very pleased with the resolution of the whole storyline in GONE TOO FAR.  Moreover the suspense aspect had me literally unable to put this book down til I finished it.  One warning, if you are NOT a fan of the extended-over-several-books-relationship-buildup, another arc begins in this book that will be going for several, so if Sam &amp; Alyssa had you in despair, there's more of the same coming.  But I'll be there!	2003-08-01
US	52490972	R32ZASZ0CU4IFO	044653093X	842684388	Those Who Walk in Darkness	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Dark Comic Book Fiction with a Twist	I usually don't buy books in hardcover and I definitely don't buy books in hardcover that I don't have a really clear idea of what I'm getting in advance, via reviews or word of mouth.  So it was really unusual that I bought this book on a whim last week, after just reading the cover flap and never having heard of the book or the author.<br />It was a worthwhile purchase, though, even though I DID read it in a two-sitting binge.  I liked the alternate reality world where superheroes and villains exist, and the way bureaucracies and mere humans cope with the day to day of trying to enforce the laws against them.  The story itself was suspenseful and hard to put down, and the writing was terse and really added to the story.  So many suspense/action novels seem like a waste of trees--why not just go straight to the screenplay sale that this is obviously angling for?  Not in this case--while the story WOULD make a great movie, the writing itself adds a dimension to the story that a mere screenplay would not have.<br />But what I most liked was the way I was placed in the position of being sympathetic toward someone whose political views I despised (and like most fans of the x-men, I read anti-mutant as racism, homophobia, xenophobia, etc.) and wanting the best for her even while I root against her side succeeding.  <br />The main problem I had with the book was that it wasn't long enough.  It obviously is the first of several or a series, or at least I hope it is because much was left unfinished at the end of this book.  I'm looking forward to more!	2003-06-06
US	52490972	RZHGWEVSM9JCC	0671028367	666165371	Deadly Decisions (Temperance Brennan, No. 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not for the Squeamish!	Kathy Reichs really is a forensic anthopologist who splits her time between Quebec and North Carolina, just like her protagonist.  The details of the bodies that she works with are realistic and gritty; the books in this series are fascinating for that level of detail alone.  On top of that is a fast-paced, fascinating mystery story with a complex heroine.  I highly recommend all the books in this series.	2002-03-28
US	52490972	R3U1XZ9VF2VZH4	0804119716	636903788	Out of Control (Troubleshooters, Book 4)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Just keeps getting better!	I'm a big fan of Suzanne Brockmann's SEAL books, both the Silhouette Intimate Moments and the Troubleshooters series. I get completely caught up in the suspense and emotion of her books.  NO ONE does action/adventure romance better!  And OUT OF CONTROL is no exception.  It starts off with a bang (literally) and I was hooked.  I didn't care for Ken Carmody in the previous books too much but he grew on me here, and Savannah was a great match for him.  The two subplots were diverting, especially the World War II story, and Sam and Alyssa's story moves along as well, although not very satisfactorily for them.  Can't wait for their book.<br />If you haven't read Brockmann before, this series starts with THE UNSUNG HERO, but it's not necessary to have read the others for anything but the Sam and Alyssa plot.  If you are looking for a good, fast paced romantic thriller, you can't go wrong with Suzanne Brockmann!	2002-03-28
US	52490972	R2V5BN76EQP65S	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Amazing and Tragic Tale	I have a mind for trivia, and I knew that the Galveston hurricane was the worst in US history in terms of loss of life.  But it wasn't until I read this book that I understood what it meant for the people involved.  While Isaac Cline's story is compelling and the research involved in reconstructing it is an impressive accomplishment, the real drama doesn't get started until the hurricane hits.  The slow build of dread as the townspeople notice the first signs of flooding and treat it as a nuisance, to the climax of the storm when houses literally fall apart around them, to the stunning aftermath found by rescuers over the next few days...I read this book last year and the images remain vivid.	2001-08-12
US	52490972	R30WHB81F6K2KC	0743418395	95004538	A Falcon's Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Real history, delicious romance	What a wonderful find!  This is the kind of book to lose yourself in for days, and considering that it's the author's first book, it's phenomenal!  <br />Alista grew up at the estate Brinlaw, which was awarded to her father after he lost his original estate in the war against the usurping Queen Maud.  But with her father gone, King Henry II sees a chance to reward his loyal follower, William of Brinlaw, by returning his estate to him.  The catch is, he must marry Alista.  <br />While the arranged marriage is a tried and true theme, what I liked here is that the emotional trauma is handled realistically.  They are strangers to each other, and that changes only slowly over time.  They both have been through tremendous amounts of pain, and that heals only slowly.  But when it does, it's worth the wait!<br />The historical elements are also handled with realism.  What I particularly liked was the inclusion of spiritual and political circumstances of the time.  Too many medievals seem to take place in a never-never land beyond the reach of king or church.  I also enjoyed the paranormal aspect but I was glad that it was a relatively small part of the story; much more would have been distracting.<br />I can't wait for another one by this author!	2001-08-12
US	52490972	R2I4KKX36A8665	0373079966	229091343	Long Hot Summer (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 996)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Very Promising First Book!	I enjoyed this book thoroughly, particularly the smoldering, sexy bad boy, Johnny.  he's an ex-con who did the crime and has done the time, although it wasn't a particularly heinous crime or fair sentence.  The town has it  in for him though; only  May, the heroine's feisty grandmother, believes in  Johnny.  Even Nicole wants nothing to do with him at first.  But he grows  on her, just like he will grow on you...<br />I too find it hard to believe  that this is the author's first book.  She writes well and with assurance,  and keeps the tension and suspense tight from the first page to the last.   I look forward to Ms. Rosnau's next book!	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R5SIHXK9UOSK4	0373270704	170947705	Angel Meets the Badman (The Texas Brand #8, Silhouette Intimate Moments #1000)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Great Start, disappointing finish	I thought I had a keeper on my hands for the first few chapters of this book.  The hero was an extremely sexy bad boy, the heroine was someone I could identify with, and the tension was sizzling.  Then...*pfft*  from the  moment the hero takes off with the heroine into the swamps, the story fell  like a souffle after the kitchen door is slammed.  It wasn't BAD, just  unremarkable.  A let down after the great start.  If you are looking for an  excellent Cajun bad boy story, try THE LONG HOT SUMMER by Wendy Rosnau (SIM  #996).	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R1M480OXQ0H4OX	0684810476	178377223	Bitter Harvest: A Woman's Fury, A Mother's Sacrifice	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Not one of Rule's best books	The story truly was gripping, as was the careful description of the forensic evidence at the scene of the fatal fire.  However, unlike Rule's STRANGER BESIDE ME and SMALL SACRIFICES, there's never a feeling of real  comprehension or understanding of this woman's psyche.  I came away from  the book feeling overwhelmed by the tragedy, but not any closer to  understanding it.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R1MU6NW2K4O164	0373834101	637373883	Sweet Memories / One Tough Texan	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Mixed Bag--but buy it for the Freed!	When I reviewed this book for All About Romance, I gave the Lavyrle Spencer story a C-, and the Jan Freed story an A.<br />&quot;Sweet Memories&quot; is a reprint of a 1984 romance by Spencer, and it shows its  age.  I admit to being a relatively new romance fan, and I like the snappy  fast paced romances prevalent now.  The slow, dragging story, zero action,  and painfully self-conscious afterschool special &quot;message&quot;  (Breast reduction surgery can be a Very Good Thing!) made this story a  chore to get through, although the writing is very good.<br />The Jan Freed  story, &quot;One Tough Texan&quot;, on the other hand, is everything I  like.  There's certainly nothing new to the plot--rancher has to raise  orphaned niece and falls in love with the woman acting as a nanny/surrogate  mom to the little girl--but Freed makes the characters come alive as  individuals who are quirky and believable.  It's too bad you have to buy  both books to get this one, but it is definitely worth it!	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R37Y7S90AG8BQ8	0694518689	726491923	Switcheroo	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Just Okay	I listened to this on tape and it didn't grab me the way BESTSELLER and FIRST WIVES' CLUB both did.  I found the plot a bit too implausible, and without pages to flip back and forth, I began to lose track of the large  cast of secondary characters.  I finished the book but was definitely ready  for it to end.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R17GT0Y8PNRBNX	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Couldn't Put it Down, but Didn't Stay With Me	I admit, as soon as my friend finished this book, I snatched it up and began reading.  And finished it pretty much the same day.  And yes, bits and pieces of it are memorable, particularly the climax (which will  probably be the world's worst kept secret by the time the movie comes  out)--I certainly haven't forgotten that.  But the slow build and creepy  moods and masterful characterizations of RED DRAGON and SILENCE OF THE  LAMBS are nowhere to be found here.  I've heard that Harris had this  manuscript published as he submitted it, with no editorial changes--it  shows, and not in a good way.  The writing is self-indulgent and over the  top and turns Hannibal Lecter into a caricature of himself.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R20KWSM3E3TDSE	1892065053	560340563	The Gumshoe, the Witch, and the Virtual Corpse	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Can't wait for the sequel!	This was one of my favorite books of last year.  It has an amazing number of viewpoints yet somehow all the pieces fit together beautifully.  Keith Hartman creates a fascinating near-future world and peoples it with  wonderfully diverse characters from the gay male detective, to Wiccans, to  a rebellious Baptist teen who unknowingly could cause riots, death and  destruction on a large scale.  The story is suspenseful, humorous, and in  the end makes you think hard about where our society is now and where it  may be heading.  I'm eagerly awaiting the sequel!	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R2WS9XIQYYVHFP	0671041312	286696000	Lip Service	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Misleading hype, boring story	Okay, the sexy parts of this book were...sexy.  Unfortunately, the hype leads you to believe that there will be a lot more of the moaning and sighing than there is.  <br />There's lots of kvetching though.  Julia is a  poor little pampered professional wife, with nothing more on her mind than  her boredom with hubby, her hots for two different guys in her life, her  phone sex research, and the mean old building that will soon block out her  precious orchids' sunlight.  <br />The most annoying thing of all is that  midway through this book, it switches gears into an attempt at a suspense  thriller, when Julia starts getting super-creepy calls and the police won't  take her seriously.  Cuz, you know, BAD THINGS always happen to naughty  girls who do things like talk dirty on the phone.  <br />This book wants to be  new and naughty but it ends up being tired and trite.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R3AM2TZMT240JX	006109787X	954185719	His Stolen Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Historical Romance with Real History	I really enjoyed this book.  It portrays the Moravian community of North Carolina in great detail, while never losing sight of an engrossing plot featuring Nicholas Blum, who needs to grow up, and Abbigaiil Till, who  needs to grow out--out and away from the father who has been running her  life.<br />There is a great secondary romance as well, between Nicholas'  brother and the woman Nicholas thought he was in love with once upon a  time.  The Blum family was interesting enough that I plan to go back and  read Stanton's first book, WILD INDIGO, and I'm hoping for more books set  in this time period and place.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	RHHFROXQ9H7XF	B00004THMJ	178377223	Bitter Harvest: A Woman's Fury, A Mother's Sacrifice	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not one of Rule's best books	The story truly was gripping, as was the careful description ofthe forensic evidence at the scene of the fatal fire.  However, unlike Rule's STRANGER BESIDE ME and SMALL SACRIFICES, there's never a feeling of real comprehension or understanding of this woman's psyche. I came away from the book feeling overwhelmed by the tragedy, but not any closer to understanding it.	2000-05-04
US	52490972	R210W8PNZ4YUC4	0380811308	150038577	Skin Deep	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Finished it 3 days ago and it's still on my mind!	This book not only has a compelling plot to keep you turning pages, but it raises issues of what culture, race, and color actually mean--those issues will stay with you long after you finish the book. I'm very impressed with  Katherine Cross' first novel, and look forward to more.	1999-10-11
