US	52495100	R2ESR1TX8WW0FC	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	1	14	52	N	N	Hellish!	Despite what the title suggests, this book is NOT actually about my apartment during the holiday season. Though, frankly, I do feel somewhat haunted by the amazing piles of crap that are accumulating while I'm too busy wrapping gifts, baking cookies, and making shopping lists to keep on top of chores. However, lucky for me, that haunting doesn't involve evil ghost thingies that zoom around and rip my limbs off. The people in this novel? Ehhhh, not so fortunate.<br /><br />Those of you who saw the 1973 movie \\"The Legend of Hell House\\" already know the plot of this novel (because the film was based on it). Those of you who saw \\"The Haunting\\" starring Owen Wilson, Liam Neeson, and Lily Taylor, or \\"House on Haunted Hill\\" starring Geoffrey Rush, also know the plot of this novel, even though \\"The Haunting\\" was actually based on a Shirley Jackson story and \\"House on Haunted Hill\\" was based on, uh, who knows what. The thing is, you read one haunted house novel or watch one haunted house movie, you read or watch them all. This book has nothing interesting or original to give to us, at least not anymore (who knows, in 1971, when it first was published, it may have been really fab). And, what's worse, it's not even scary, though it tries very, very hard to be.<br /><br />The story is about a group of paranormal researchers and psychics who decide a really entertaining way to spend a week would be to go to the Belasco house (AKA \\"Hell House\\") and hang out. Yes, this despite the fact the previous two groups of yahoos who tried this very experiment all ended up dead. Eh, nobody said psychics were smart. Of course, they show up, the ghosts go bananas, most of them end up six feet under. Big surprise. La la la. Yawn. I confess, I've seen all three of the movies I just mentioned, and many of them more than once. And I did that for the same reason I read this book all the way through. I'm a sucker for ghost stories. But don't be like me. It can only cause you great amounts of pain, misery, and many, many good hours wasted on unoriginal crappola. Read something better. Like, say, the phone book. Recommended! But only if you are TOTALLY INSANE.n, misery, and many, many good hours wasted on unoriginal crappola. Read something better. Like, say, the phone book. Recommended! But only if you are TOTALLY INSANE.  <br />	2005-03-02
US	52495100	R944XG8XFLO76	0553583859	784715836	Fields of Fire	Books	4	10	10	N	N	War is hell.	After my Dad saw me reading \\"Band of Brothers,\\" he loaned me this novel, saying it was one of his favorite books about Vietnam (my Dad was an A-4 pilot for the Marines during the war). And, wow, I have to say this book had a profound effect on me. I thought the \\"Battered Bastards of the Bastion of Bastogne\\" had it rough, I was just amazed and horrified by the conditions these Marines suffered through (Webb was a Marine in Vietnam himself and therefore knows of what he speaks). Not only that, but one of the plotlines of this novel was very disturbing, primarily because no matter how much thought I gave it, I honestly could understand both sides of the issue (a group of Marines are accused of murdering two Vietnamese civilians). Which is not to say I would have excused or condoned the Marines' behavior, but holy cow was that a horrific, confusing disaster of a war. I had a hard time blaming them for what happened, even while I knew it was wrong. But as one character pointed out, the line between combat and murder was just impossibly vague at times -- he says something like \\"You kill a man at 5:30 and it's murder; you kill him at 6, it's combat.\\" <br /> <br />What a nightmare. This is a tremendous novel -- one I'd recommend to anyone who has ever been curious about what it was really like in Vietnam. It brings to life so many of the psychological complexities soldiers encountered in the jungle. It'll be a long time before I've shaken this one off. <br />	2005-03-02
US	52495100	R13Y57CCVN5MKI	1931561761	98088860	Fruit	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Eat 5 servings a day!	Wonderful and strange novel about an overweight teenaged boy whose nipples talk to him. Sounds weird, right? And it is, but it's also gut-wrenchingly honest and open, and any kid who's ever struggled with a weight problem (or with a sexual identity crisis, for that matter), will completely relate to thirteen year-old Peter Paddington. Horrified by his huge nipples (or, as they'd call them on Seinfeld, \\"man boobs\\"), which he's sure all the kids can see through his tee-shirt, Peter starts by wrapping his chest in loops of masking tape. But as his nipples start to become raw and sore, he begins imagining that they are making fun of him for being so ashamed of himself, and yearning to be set free. Just about this same time, Peter starts to realize he's not like the other boys -- that he's just not attracted to girls. But he doesn't have any concept of what that means. Does that mean he's a freak? He sure feels like a freak. A fat, stupid freak. As time passes and his nipples keep voicing the thoughts that are deep down in his head, Peter slowly begins to come to terms with himself, and to learn how to overcome the things he can beat (like his weight problem) and embrace the things that just make him HIM. This novel is totally sweet and funny and gentle. I loved every word and can't wait for more from this new Canadian author.	2005-03-02
US	52495100	R3V4TDJZDCGRFH	0425195112	64952748	Unveiled: The Hidden Lives of Nuns	Books	4	9	11	N	N	How many times can I use "fascinating" in this review?	I'm really fascinated by nuns, despite the fact I'm not religious myself.  I'm fascinated by their choices and by their so clearly-defined and purpose-driven lifestyles. So, when I saw this book on the shelf at the library, I snatched it up. Reed, a woman likewise intrigued by nun-dom (and even toying with the idea of marrying the Big JC herself), spent several years living at various convents around the country. Some of them housed habit-wearing, full-cloistered nuns who believe that flagellating themselves helped save lost souls; and some were home to denim-wearing PhDs living in the inner city and arguing about the old-fashioned and out-dated rules of the church. I hate to keep using this word over and over, but it was just fascinating how amazingly different all the convents were. I really had no idea! <br /> <br />Reed is an investigative reporter, so I will say this book lacked a little emotional depth -- reporters are trained to write about what they observe, not to analyze it or try to dig into their sources' psychology. But if you are interested in what differences are to be found from convent to convent or what a day in the life of a nun is like, I think you'll find this book very rewarding. Recommended! <br />	2005-03-02
US	52495100	R3JXE338RISE0W	0375413596	709795035	The White	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A little unsatisfying, but still enjoyable	In 1798, sixteen year old Mary Jemison was taken from her home in Pennsylvania by a Shawnee raiding party. Her parents were murdered and scalped, but Mary was given to a Seneca family whose son, roughly Mary's age, had been killed by whites several months before.<br />Though at first Mary resists her new life, she gradually begins to accept her fate, even taking a Delaware warrior as her husband. This novel is a fictionalized retelling of her true story, and primarily focuses on the inner workings of Mary's mind as she struggles with the two sides of her identity -- her desire to stay white and her growing respect for her new Native American world.<br />I enjoyed this book, but do have one complaint. The novel, which is relatively short, is written in a very Spartan style, and while I realize that sixteen year olds aren't terribly observant, I would have liked to see more detail about the Seneca culture and the environment Mary finds herself in. The book's focus is on what's going on in Mary's mind, but those &quot;inner workings&quot; don't really amount to all that much, and what's there isn't terribly unique, either.  This book could've been so much more!  I really felt that Larsen had wasted a terrific opportunity here.<br />Nevertheless, though I found the book a little unsatisfying overall, I still was entertained and would recommend it to others.	2003-08-19
US	52495100	R2ST50S5USU9FG	0345447859	38131708	The Apprentice	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Not a bad way to spend a Saturday	Sequel to \\"The Surgeon,\\" this mystery starts with a copycat murder following \\"The Surgeon's\\" (serial killer Warren Hoyt) m.o. to a tee. Of course, Detective Jane Rizzoli is brought in on the case. After all, nobody knows more about Hoyt than her -- she was nearly killed by him and was the cop who ultimately took him down. But when Hoyt escapes from prison and the murders escalate, it's clear that this isn't just your every day normal copycat killer. It's a team of two dangerous men -- and they're coming after Jane next.<br />This was a fairly entertaining thriller. Better written than \\"The Surgeon,\\" but still not exactly what you'd call literature. Gerritsen still has an annoying tendency to overuse catchy phrases (okay, enough with \\"coup de grace,\\" already!). But hey, I was entertained and that's all I was really lookin' for with this one.	2003-05-29
US	52495100	RPSFTRMI8ED4Q	081296814X	633856845	Durable Goods: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent!	Short novel, the first in a series, about a little girl named Katie and her life on a Texan army base. Since their mother died, Katie and her older sister Diane have been struggling to grow up with only their distant, sometimes violent father to guide them. Diane escapes into the arms of her boyfriend Dickie, while Katie hides in her room or flees to her best friend Cherylanne's house. And they're managing, they're growing up, they're reasonably happy. Until the inevitable news comes once again -- it's time for another transfer to another base. Only this time, the strong-willed Diane has had enough. She won't move again -- she won't start all over again. She can't. So she and Dickie pack Katie up and take off for Mexico, for an adventure that changes Katie's life forever.<br />Even though I only spent about two hours with Katie, the narrator of this 200 page novel, as a military kid myself, I related to a lot of her emotions. Though my father wasn't violent like hers, they had other things in common. And other elements of military life, particularly the mixture of emotions you feel every time you have to start all over -- again. I feel in love with Katie and her resilience and will be looking for the next book in this series right away. Recommended!	2003-05-29
US	52495100	R3R6LNJW1SGNFY	0743535391	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Excellent -- this book will challenge your preconceptions	When the U.S. Marines were sent to Saudi Arabia in 1990 to fight the Iraqis, Swofford was there, a jarhead in the infanty, on the front lines. This is Swofford's story about what life was like fighting the war and living for six months in the deserts of the Middle East -- the sand, the camaraderie, the physical challenges, the heat -- as well as a few anecdotal flashbacks to boot camp. While those stories are definitely enthralling, what makes this memoir really stand out is Swofford's honesty and candor about what he felt while he was there -- the emotional ups and downs. Anger, hate, fear, compassion, sadness. Lather, rinse, repeat.<br />Swofford swears like a sailor and writes like a pro, but everything else about him is 100% USMC. This book isn't pretty -- it delivers as many troubling truths about war and soldiers as it does inspiring tales of incredible valor. But it's a must-read for anyone curious about what life is like, physically and mentally, for the military personnel who fought in Iraq then, as well as now. Highly recommended, unless you are easily offended by lots of cursing or talk about private parts. I'm looking forward to reading more of Swofford's writing soon -- hope he keeps churning things out!	2003-05-29
US	52495100	RQHG8QTHKNRZ3	0312269587	268236099	Plane Insanity: A Flight Attendant's Tales of Sex, Rage, and Queasiness at 30,000 Feet	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Highly entertaining	Flight attendant Elliot Hester's compilation of dozens of hilarious essays and stories about his experiences at 30,000 feet. Most of the essays in this book are things you may have read before -- a lot of them have been published on Salon.com and Hester is a syndicated travel columnist these days in addition to his day job in jets. But if you've never experienced his sharp wit and sharper tongue, you're in for a few belly laughs and groans. And also, you may never think about flight attendants in quite the same way ever again. Recommended to frequent fliers and anybody else who could use a few good laughs while squished into one of those tiny seats in coach!	2003-05-29
US	52495100	R1AHMPM9MWENO0	0743223128	69407551	Ghost Image: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and suspenseful	Fairly decent thriller about a plastic surgeon called to the ER one night when a severely burned and beaten woman is brought in. Though her face is mangled, he quickly realizes she is Allie, his lover. He manages to save her, but she is left in a coma for months while the police department searches for clues about what might have happened to her.<br />When she finally wakes, she doesn't remember what happened. And though Jackson stays by her side, his love for her never faltering, Allie soon becomes obsessed about her appearance -- and about the fact her boyfriend and his boss have the tools and the skills to fix her face. Her obsession turns deadly -- and so does, in some ways, Jackson's own obsession. With her.<br />All in all, a pretty original medical thriller. But this is Gilder's first novel and it really shows. The writing is good -- solid and well-developed. But, to put it simply, there's just too much of it. Which isn't the same thing as saying the novel is too long (although, that too), but more that sometimes sentences, paragraphs, or even whole chapters are superfluous. And, after awhile, I started skimming a bit. I wanted to find out what happened next, but was quickly becoming bogged down by the unnecessary parts. Still, ten times better than anything Robin Cook has put out in the last decade. Fans of the genre won't be disappointed.	2003-05-29
US	52495100	R2NHMJOGVPFRWX	0345423097	599249355	Joy School (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Absolutely wonderful!	The second in the trilogy about young Katie, daughter of a distant, sometimes kind of abusive, Army father, this book begins where &quot;Durable Goods&quot; left off -- Katie and her father are moving to a new town (in Missouri) and Katie's sister has run off to Mexico with her boyfriend to get away from her dad and his totalitarian rule over their family. Katie isn't too happy with her new school, where she is having trouble making solid friends, or with her new neighbors, who keep putting mean notes in the bush outside her window. And she struggles with the confusion of puberty and the fact her sister left her right when she needed her most. But when she accidentally falls through the ice while skating by herself, she meets Jimmy and immediately falls in love with him. He's much too old for her, and also married, but she is entranced. As their relationship unfolds, so too does Katie's awareness of the pain and intensity first love can bring. Especially when that first love is unrequited.<br />This is another wonderful exploration of what it means to be a girl growing up without a mother and raised by a father who just doesn't really understand. Berg is a beautiful writer and her characters spring to life with a single sentence, a single thought, a single motion. All three books in this series are really short (about 200 small pages), but they are jam-packed with intensity, hilarity, and agony. I highly recommend the full set to anybody who loves coming-of-age novels.	2003-05-29
US	52495100	R23UVW6GSYQ2VN	0375508244	739781436	Shark Trouble	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great fun!	Most of my family and friends love to tease me about the fact my all-time favorite movie is &quot;Jaws,&quot; based on a book by the author of this book, Peter Benchley. I had absolutely no idea, however, that Benchley himself has quite a lot of experience in the non-fictional shark world. He has spent decades diving in some of the most remote, dangerously-shark-infested waters of the world, watching them, studying them, enjoying them. This is a truly entertaining book that is part shark encyclopedia, part memoir. Mixed in with a ton of information about a variety of shark species are dozens of stories about Benchley's actual experiences with them. Some of his stories are just incredible -- how did he ever get out of THAT? -- though quite possibly the most amazing story comes at the end of the book when he writes a chapter about his experiences with some other dangerous sea creatures -- an orca in the one I'm thinking of right now, though the story about the manta ray comes in at a close second, in my opinion!<br />Benchley is an extremely entertaining writer -- witty and intelligent -- and this book was a joy to read not just because the stories were incredible (I'm fascinated by sea creatures and would love to learn how to dive, so his stories appealed to me on a variety of levels), but because the author himself is so personable it felt like we were chatting over a cup of coffee somewhere. I greatly enjoyed this book and it would be a great one to recommend to interested adults and kids alike (I know some 8 year old shark lovers who would really get a kick out of it!).  Highly recommended!	2002-09-11
US	52495100	RE8R1FH6FVX32	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A truly wonderful novel.	There is nothing so tragic as the violent death of a child. It's something that can tear apart not just the family of the lost, but anyone even remotely connected to them. And this kind of grief is something authors have struggled to describe since the dawn of storytelling -- weaving that sorrow into some of the most painfully beautiful works ever. Until now, however, no one has really explored the grief the dead child experiences -- at having their life taken from them, at having to leave abruptly from the secure warmth and ease of their families and friends.<br />This is a unique and incredibly moving and tender novel written from the point of view of 14 year old Susie Salmon, brutally murdered by a neighbor. The story begins in Susie's first days in heaven, a place where she finds she can have anything she wishes for, except that things she wants most -- to be alive and allowed to grow up.<br />Susie can see the world from heaven (note that she uses a lowercase \\"h\\" herself for the word \\"heaven\\" until the end of the novel) and so her story tracks not only her own journey of grief, but also that of her parents, her sister, her brother, her friends. Each of them struggling in their own, wholly individual ways. Her father is desperate to catch the killer. Her mother, desperate to move on -- to get away from the horror and pain. Others are consumed by feelings of guilt or anger or fear, sorrow, confusion.<br />Despite the fact that this sounds like it must then be the most depressing novel ever written, it truly isn't. The pain is very real, but Susie herself is actually a rather delightful narrator. She's funny and smart. And a bit on the devious side. She made me laugh, broke my heart, and kept me reading long into the night. She will not easily be forgotten.<br />If you love books that truly impact you -- books that have the potential to change you -- then this is one to add to your list. And while I generally feel a need to warn parents away from stories about lost children (for example, I won't be renting \\"In The Bedroom\\" with my mother), this is one I think anyone who has lost a loved one could benefit from reading. Because it wills you to believe \\"that the dead truly talk to us, that in the air between the living, spirits bob and weave and laugh with us. They are the oxygen we breath.\\" And that is an idea I am happy to accept as true.	2002-09-11
US	52495100	R2OL7RVD3J6PRC	0679443908	574643989	The Camera My Mother Gave Me	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Honest and remarkable.	My god, what a life Kaysen, the author of \\"Girl, Interrupted,\\" a memoir about her teenage years in a mental institution, has had. First that and now this -- a follow-up memoir about her experiences years later with a mysterious and ultimately untreatable vaginal syndrome, the main symptom of which is unbearable and constant pain. As she struggles with the pain and her frustration over her doctors' inability to find out what is causing it, she also finds herself battling her boyfriend who has no compassion for her problem and just accuses of her not wanting to have sex with him anymore. <br />Again, Kaysen does not shy away from all the gory details -- including the intense emotional ups and downs that ensue. But it was really her words on chronic pain that truly affected me. The realization, for example, that, honestly, the pain itself isn't the worst part of chronic pain. The worst part is the fact that you can't ever leave it. Even when you are distracted into forgetting it's there -- it's ALWAYS THERE. And this, more than the pain itself, is what makes people with chronic pain so incredibly exhausted.<br />As someone in that category myself (though my pain is in my hands), I could really relate to her stories -- her guilt (is this my fault? did I do something wrong? if I don't want to try something that might help, does that mean I don't want to get better?), her frustration, her fear that it's \\"all in her head,\\" and, most of all, her ultimate decision not to let it rule her life anymore. She says at one point she felt like she'd become a vagina -- a walking, talking vagina, the pain had so consumed her world. And that changed everything. That was unacceptable.<br />This is a short but incredibly powerful book. Great for chronic pain warriors (I prefer that to \\"patients\\" or \\"sufferers\\") who crave the validation that comes from hearing someone else articulate what you feel. And, even better, great for the friends and family of CP warriors who struggle to understand but so often just cannot. (...)<br />In the passage just after this one, she describes chronic pain as being like carrying an unwieldy suitcase around. It's not that the suitcase is too heavy to bear -- it's that you can't ever set it down. That's it. That's it EXACTLY. This is a marvelous book. If Kaysen is reading this:  thank you.	2002-02-02
US	52495100	R3M0FGR0JUJA72	0385318782	405219559	Talk Before Sleep	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Tremendous writing -- this book will change you.	Truly wonderful short novel about two best friends, one of whom is dying of breast cancer and is near the end of her life when the story begins.  This is a look not only at what it's like for the patient, but at how hard it is for someone to watch a loved one leave this world -- and not be able to do ANYTHING to stop it.  All the feelings are here -- the guilt, the fear, the frustration, and the sorrow -- and they are so eloquently described that by the end of the book, you will be exhausted. As exhausted as the characters themselves.  And this is what made me love this book so much -- it's so sad, it's so hard to read, but when was the last time a book moved me like this?  <br />Berg says in the foreward that this book is actually based on her own experience as a friend watching a friend die from breast cancer and I believe it.  Only someone who'd really been through it could make the rest of us feel like we had too.  But this book isn't all about death and sorrow -- it's also about how bright someone's light can be, even in the face of extraordinary darkness.  This book made me laugh out loud.  And then it made me cry myself to sleep.  How wonderful is that?  Answer:  darn wonderful.	2001-12-04
US	52495100	R3UBHOL0360I6O	0399146008	157310859	Shock	Books	1	14	17	N	N	Get this guy an editor!	Predictable medical thriller about two young women who agree to donate some of their eggs in return for a hefty sum (ostensibly to help infertile couples). Though they are nervous, the procedures go well and when they get their checks, they promptly take off for a year in Italy together. Happy go lucky. La la la.<br />During that year, though, they begin to get curious about whether or not their eggs ended up being viable. So, as soon as they return to the States, they put in a call to the clinic to ask if any of their eggs were successfully transplanted and turned into babies. As you'd expect, the clinic is completely unwilling to release this information. Completely contrary to what you'd expect (from two Harvard Ph.D.'s), the girls decide to commit about eight different felonies in order to steal that information for themselves. Okay, now, sure -- most women would love to know whether or not they are fertile before it comes time for them to actually start trying to have children. But how many of us would rob, steal, trespass, and commit fraud to find out? I mean, for Pete's sake.<br />Anyway, of course they end up finding out the clinic is actually up to no good. Human cloning and blah blah blah. I found it ironic that when they tell a doctor friend of theirs what the clinic is up to, he responds pretty nonchalantly to the whole story -- he's probably read this story a thousand times before too, huh? Pretty much the only TRULY interesting part of this book was when one of the clinic patients went into a dressing room named \\"Dorothy Stevens\\" (p. 57) and came out of it minutes later named \\"Dorothy Washburn\\" (p. 58). Gasp! What did those mad scientists DO to her in there? (...)	2001-11-18
US	52495100	R1LSIJQN06VO33	0425174697	677105451	Nursery Crimes: A Mommy-track Mystery (Mommy-Track Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lots of fun!	Cute mystery featuring Juliet Applebaum, a public defender turned stay-at-home mom. When her young daughter's application to a famous preschool is rejected, Juliet isn't too surprised. When she turns on her TV that night only to discover the school's principal has been killed, however, she is not only shocked, but completely suspicious. Soon she finds herself investigating a few clues, against the advice of all who know her. The clues lead her to a seedy, sleazy Internet newsgroup where she eventually gets herself in deeper than she'd planned to go. Now the suspects are piling up (an angry man whose daughter was also denied entrance to the school? the principal's husband?) and when the cops start to take Juliet seriously, she begins to think she's really onto something. But is she? And, if so, how much risk is this pregnant mom going to take on in pursuit of justice? Waldman is the wife of Michael Chabon, one of my favorite authors, and while her novel isn't &quot;literture&quot; as her husband's often are, this was a book I drank down in one afternoon and thoroughly enjoyed. Am looking forward to Waldman's next Juliet Applebaum mystery, too. Recommended!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	R2M9TAGRIKV05A	0525938672	223529608	House of Echoes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great thriller!	When Joss Grant inherits a gigantic mansion (Belheddon Hall) in Essex from a mother she never knew, she and her suddenly-unemployed husband think it's a miracle. Just as they were losing their own home because of debt, they discover they are heir to a fantastic house in a beautiful small town! They quickly pack up their stuff and their young son Tom and move in. Joss, fascinated by the opportunity to learn about her roots, begins going through her mother's old things, many of which were left behind when her mother moved to France many years prior to her death. Joss soon discovers a series of chilling diary entries and letters, all of which refer to a dangerous &quot;Him&quot; that seems to be killing all the men and boys of Belheddon Hall. Joss, too, has sensed something sinister in the house, even hearing ghostly voices in the attic and outside. When her son starts having nightmares about &quot;the tin man&quot; and then starts falling out of his crib, Joss begins to panic. Soon her sister (a nanny for Tom and Joss' newborn Ned) starts to suspect Joss is hurting the children -- they are covered with bruises and Joss seems to be growing more and more unstable. Joss, however, has seen &quot;the tin man&quot; with her own eyes -- seen him attack Tom and seen him attack herself as well. Is she really just crazy? Unnerved by the house's history and suffering from post-partum depression? Or is the house really haunted by a horrible man jealous of any male that gets between him and his love? <br /><br />This book was well-constructed and the ending was exciting and shocking. But it could easily have been 100 pages shorter and not suffered. Parts of it were dragged out too long (or repeated too many times). Still, if you like ghost stories and a good scare, this is the book for you!  I really enjoyed it!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	R1IXVZ30UYJUO5	158234096X	760752117	Five Mile House: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Entertaining and spooky!	Entertaining novel about a female police officer, Leslie, who snaps one day at work and shoots a man accused of murdering a child. After a brief stay in a psychiatric hospital, she, her husband, and her two small children decide to move to a small town in New England, where her husband has been offered a job renovating an old mansion. The mansion has a history -- it's said that Eleanor Bly murdered her children and then committed suicide there over 100 years ago. Leslie is shocked to discover she looks just like Eleanor and even more shocked when she begins to discover the truth about why her family was asked to move there. The truth about what happened at the Bly house starts to come out, bit by bit. The story is narrated by the ghost of Eleanor Bly, who has known Leslie was coming and is desperate to help her avoid the same fate. This was a spooky novel, well-written and very engrossing. Recommended!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	RMOHEZQIVG64M	0737000465	198571362	Letters to Harry: A True Story of a Daughter's Love and a Mother's Final Journey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very helpful and moving book.	Collection of letters the author wrote to her best friend Harry during the last year of her mother's life... I think this book would be a great help for anyone in a similiar situation -- the author puts into words many of the emotions both sides go through (anger, fear, confusion, frustration, sadness, hope, apathy, etc.) and helps the reader understand the progression through the phases of death and how each one can make one feel. While I'm not a caretaker for a dying mother (let's not even think about that right now), I saw a lot in the dying mother of this book that I also see in my 90+ year old great aunt. Reading this book helped me better understand her anger and frustrations, something I think will help our relationship greatly over the remaining years of her life. Recommended to anyone looking for some help with this kind of thing.	2001-04-27
US	52495100	RZE1C2ZM08M4H	0425174697	677105451	Nursery Crimes: A Mommy-track Mystery (Mommy-Track Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lots of fun!	Cute mystery featuring Juliet Applebaum, a public defender turned stay-at-home mom. When her young daughter's application to a famous preschool is rejected, Juliet isn't too surprised. When she turns on her TV that night only to discover the school's principal has been killed, however, she is not only shocked, but completely suspicious. Soon she finds herself investigating a few clues, against the advice of all who know her. The clues lead her to a seedy, sleazy Internet newsgroup where she eventually gets herself in deeper than she'd planned to go. Now the suspects are piling up (an angry man whose daughter was also denied entrance to the school? the principal's husband?) and when the cops start to take Juliet seriously, she begins to think she's really onto something. But is she? And, if so, how much risk is this pregnant mom going to take on in pursuit of justice? Waldman is the wife of Michael Chabon, one of my favorite authors, and while her novel isn't &quot;literature&quot; as her husband's often are, this was a book I drank down in one afternoon and thoroughly enjoyed. Am looking forward to Waldman's next Juliet Applebaum mystery, too. Recommended!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	R3EYYP6O18WHHZ	0393321401	474309743	The Strangeness of Beauty (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Wonderful.	Absolutely beautiful novel about three generations of Japanese women. When Etsuko's sister Naomi dies during childbirth in Seattle, Etsuko takes on the role of mother to the baby, Hanae. After a few years of American life together, Hanae's father decides it's time to send both Hanae and Etsuko back to Japan, so Hanae can learn about her heritage and get to know her maternal grandmother, Chie. The three women, a Japanese woman from a prestigious samurai family (Chie), her ignored American-immigrant daughter (Etsuko), and her American-born granddaughter (Hanae), learn much about each other and the world during their turbulent years together. The setting is pre-World War II Japan, providing not only an incredible background, but the means for a fascinating history lesson as well. The characters are unique, intense, and real. And their interactions (both with each other and with their countries) are some of the most moving demonstrations of emotion I've encountered in a novel in some time. My fiance gave me this book for Valentine's Day, saying he thought it sounded like a book I might enjoy (and he knows how much a good book can impact me) -- I found it absolutely amazing that he was so right on. While a book might not sound like the most romantic of gifts, it sure says a lot about him that he knew me so well he was able to pick out a book I not only couldn't put down, but felt moved to copy passages out of as well. Highly, HIGHLY recommended! (And, boy, am I marrying well or what?)	2001-04-27
US	52495100	R3MD2O6JJFN0X4	0399146164	501935513	Riptide	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Overpriced doorstop.	I have a rule I try to follow which states that if I don't finish reading a book because it's amazingly bad, I also don't write in here about it (because I don't consider it to have been read by me, ya follow?). However, I just have to say something about this one. I expected it to be a standard thriller, decently written and reasonably well-crafted. Why? Oh, because I'd heard of the author and knew she was a bestseller, and blahbady blahbady blah. But I should have immediately scolded myself for THAT crazy assumption -- we all remember what happened to Thomas Harris and &quot;Hannibal,&quot; right? I won't say &quot;Riptide&quot; is as badly written as &quot;Hannibal,&quot; so if you didn't mind the latter, you probably won't mind the former. But just about every page in Riptide had a sentence that made me gag. Some of them were just badly written (split infinitives for no good reason, e.g.), some were just excessively cheesy and woefully out of character, and others were stilted or out of place in the plot. I got to about page 100 and gave up. I don't know if all her books are like this (have I even read any others? I can't remember), but if they are, it's scary that they're all bestsellers. Even the characters were all two-dimensional and stereotypical. Where are our standards, people? This book stinks! Quick! Run! Get out while you still can!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	RBAHUK82YLH2Q	0764562002	902170190	Hawaii For Dummies? (Dummies Travel)	Books	5	64	69	N	N	The best travel book I've read so far!	Normally, I try to avoid these &quot;Dummies&quot; guides, as I'm just the slightest bit offended by the idea that I'm a &quot;dummy&quot; just because I don't know EVERYTHING. But after flipping through books at the local bookstore looking for a good guidebook for my honeymoon trip to Oahu and Kauai next October, I finally decided on this one. It's got great maps, for one thing, as well as extensive lists of hotels, places to eat, and things to do. Because the descriptions are full of personal anecdotes, I really trust that Leas has seen and done it all herself and she's being straight with me about what she thinks -- traditional travel guides always make me nervous because they're written in the third person. If I'm going to spend ... on a vacation, I really want to know what things I should do and what things I shouldn't!<br /> Possibly the greatest feature, though, is the fact that at least 75% of the entries for places and activities have web site URLs. Even though the book is extremely detailed and I could easily plan my entire trip without a single tap on the keyboard, I definitely love the fact that I now have the option of logging on to learn more about some of the museums and restaurants she recommends. I probably would've done searches on many of them anyway, and Leas has just saved me a step. Since I've got about a million things to do between now and my trip, every step saved is a pretty great thing! I also have to say that after reading the book, I asked a friend who had been to Honolulu several times for some tips. Every single thing he said I'd already read in Leas' book. Right down to the &quot;don't call it 'shaved' ice -- it's 'shave' ice&quot; one. When the author knows enough to help you avoid making yourself look like a disgusting tourist, you know you've picked a good guide. Recommended!	2001-04-27
US	52495100	R1JINYZQN13J89	0312266669	289019446	Third Person Singular: A Mars Bahr Mystery (Mars Bahr Mysteries)	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Shows a lot of promise but has a cliche ending.	This was a pretty engrossing novel with great characters and a terrific setting that got totally destroyed for me by the cliche ending.  When I got to the part in the book, about 50 or so pages before the end, where I could see which direction the author was headed, I was horrified. I quickly flipped through the last pages in denial (&quot;She isn't REALLY going to do that is she?&quot;), saw I was right, and gave up on finishing.  However, in Erickson's defense:  this is her first novel and it shows a lot of promise.  I'll definitely look for the next one, but if I were you, I'd skip this one altogether.  Not recommended to anyone who is a mystery fan and hates it when, figuratively speaking, &quot;the butler did it.&quot;	2001-03-22
US	52495100	R1DQX332LAI4N8	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Unlike anything you've read before!	What starts out as a strange and somewhat unnerving tale about a  disfigured woman who picks up strong male hitchhikers and then injects them  with something that knocks them out so she can dress them up in other men's  clothes slowly takes shape as a very clever and creative social satire. Of  what, I'm not going to tell you, as half the enjoyment of reading this book  comes about a third of the way through when you start to figure out what's  going on. Faber's point, while first striking me as mundane, actually  started to affect me by the end of the novel. Yeah, I've heard the argument  before, but this is actually a pretty effective (and certainly NEW) way to  put it. I highly recommend this book, although not for the weak of stomach  (as some of the scenes are pretty graphically violent). It's one of the  most unique books I've encountered in my lifetime. And for once, a satire  described as &quot;Swiftian&quot; on the back cover has actually lived up  to the adjective.	2000-09-19
US	52495100	RBK5AWN6DJCN8	0446523712	563822384	Appointment at the Ends of the World: Memoirs of a Wildlife Veterinarian	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fun!	Memoirs of a veterinarian who travels around the world doctoring rare and  wild animals. Ya got your seal pups in Peru, your okapi in Zaire, and, my  favorite, your orangutans in Borneo (plus lots of other countries and  critters).  This was a very enjoyable book, though it wasn't always as       well-written as it could've been (a few stilted passages, a few unnecessary  ones, etc.). But I didn't read a book by a vet for its literary value,  obviously. I read it because I love animals and always wanted to be a vet  myself. I would never have had the courage Karesh has, though, which is  what makes living vicariously through his stories so much more fun.  Recommended to anybody who likes James Herriot and going to the zoo.	2000-08-29
US	52495100	R2OGERR7ZBC78X	0385492235	660764425	An Invisible Sign of My Own	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly, highly recommended!!	Absolutely wonderful and strange (wonderfully strange) novel about a very young math teacher named Mona Gray. Mona is a &quot;good noticer&quot; with a sick father, an obsessive need to knock on wood, a classfull of crazy amazing 7 year olds, and an almost astonishing fear of death (other people's, not hers). Numbers mean everything to her -- they represent an order that she craves. But despite her struggle for a life of numerical structure, she has also &quot;fallen in love with quitting&quot; and quitting things never fails to shake everything up around her. This is a lousy description of the book, though, because what makes it truly marvelous is Bender's writing, and it defies description. Mona and her mixed-up brain come across so clearly that I was almost envious of her compulsions and craziness. Like Lisa, Mona's student who is struggling with the impending death of her mother, I often wish I could stand out more -- and boy does Mona ever stand out. Waaaaay out! This is an amazing book. Buy it! Now!	2000-08-29
US	52495100	RAT77HPKQWKQG	0312147015	253392869	The Persian Pickle Club	Books	5	68	71	N	N	Even better than &quot;Diary of Mattie Spenser!&quot;	I picked this novel up right after finishing Dallas' &quot;The Diary of  Mattie Spenser&quot; (my first experience with Dallas -- loved it!). So, I  was extremely happy to discover that Persian Pickle is even BETTER than  &quot;D of M S&quot;! This one      is set in a small rural Kansas town  during the Depression, where a close-knit community is struggling against  the hard times together. The women are      particularly close as they all  belong to a quilting club they call &quot;The Persian Pickle Club&quot;  (I'll let you read the book to find out what a &quot;persian pickle&quot;  is). Their      quiet town is shaken up a little when the son of one of the  local farmers returns, bringing his fiery new wife Rita with him. Rita  aspires to be a journalist so she      can get a job in the city (she hates  farming) and when the bones of a man are found buried in a field, she jumps  at the chance to get the scoop. Her      investigation, however, brings her  dangerously close to a secret the Pickles (who by this time have come to  adore Rita and have made her a member of the      club despite the fact  she's wretched at quilting) have sworn to keep. She eventually has to  decide whether her loyalties lie with her career goals or with her      new  friends. The characters in this story are wonderful (in fact, the narrator  of this one, Queenie Bean, reminded me a lot of Mattie Spenser, which is a  good      thing) and by the end I was actually very envious of their  friendships and their community (born too late). I highly, highly recommend  this and      can't wait to read the one remaining Dallas novel I haven't  gotten to yet (forgot the title). I'm thinking I'll save it, though, as her  next book isn't due out until      October, 2000.	2000-08-29
US	52495100	RIL23O6CPFEGB	0553108646	53360710	First Evidence	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spooky as heck at times -- great fun!	Scary thriller about a crime scene investigator, Colin Cellars, who is  called out to a murder scene at a hidden cabin in the woods. When he  arrives, the      two officers waiting for him are visibly shaken and  extremely terrified, constantly watching the edge of the woods while  telling Cellars that the two officers      there before them are missing  and their radios don't work. Cellars sends them off to get help while he  begins collecting evidence. Inside the cabin he finds the      mutilated  body of a person who might be his old friend, Bobby. He also is attacked by  someone or something he can only see in the shadows. When he      escapes,  he returns to the station and finds out the two cops he'd sent for help are  now missing too. Determined to find out what is happening, Cellars keeps       returning to the cabin. But each time he tries to find clearer evidence,  something even spookier happens and confuses everything even further. I  couldn't put this book down, even      when nighttime rolled around and the  combination of the story and the dark gave me the screaming heebie-jeebies.  I was a little disappointed by the ending,      which seemed too sudden and  too convenient, but the rest of it was so great I barely minded.  Recommended!	2000-08-29
US	52495100	R2JEH5EXN717YA	0312187106	698240855	The Diary of Mattie Spenser: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly recommended!	This novel begins with a woman helping her elderly neighbor move into a  retirement home. The elderly lady keeps giving her heirlooms to the woman,       knowing the woman is a collector of antiques and an armchair historian.  One of the things she passes along is her grandmother's diary -- a journal  kept when the      grandmother, Mattie, travelled West with her husband to  set up a homestead in the Colorado Territory. The rest of the novel is the  diary itself -- a marvelous      story that made me think constantly of the  &quot;Little House&quot; books.  I really enjoyed this novel a lot and look  forward to reading Dallas's other books.  Highly recommended to anyone who  misses the Ingalls or loves stories about      strong women pioneers.	2000-08-29
US	52495100	R3LTQSYLILKCWQ	0684863588	43535728	Stick Figure: A Diary of My Former Self	Books	5	47	49	N	N	A MUST-READ for parents of young girls!	A startling look at the progression from complete body-innocence to complete body-consciousness. This book is comprised of Lori's diaries from when she was about 11 years old. When it starts out, she's a pretty normal  kid: goofing around, worrying about being liked, and just, basically, being  11. However, Lori was surrounded by women who were constantly telling her  they were fat or she was fat or they/she would BECOME fat if they did this  or that. As the result of this constant brainwashing (really, that's what  it is, you guys), she slowly begins to think real women just don't eat. So,  she quits eating too. <br />It was horrifying to watch her mind go through the  changes -- one minute she's a happy kid munching on a cookie after school  and the next minute, she's in the hospital weighing less than 50 pounds and  thinking her thighs are fat. She even believes breathing in air that SMELLS  like food is enough to gain weight and her desperation to avoid gaining a  single ounce is just gut-wrenching. I have felt that fear and I felt it  again when I read this (a sign of good writing, incidentally).  But when  people tell her to stop dieting, she doesn't understand why since everyone  around her is dieting too. Her friends throw away their lunches, her mom  eats a few bites of salad for dinner and then sneaks down to the kitchen  for cookies later, etc. etc. etc. The only people eating normally are her  brother and father, and they're both too oblivious to really see what's  going on. <br />One of the scariest parts of this book for me was realizing  how many things Lori did when in the throes of anorexia that I do or have  done. It's a real wake-up call. I mean, how can I yell at Lori to EAT THE  DAMN COOKIE! when I pick all the cheese off my pizza, keep a constant  mental tally of the calories I've consumed today, and wouldn't eat a real  bowl of ice cream if you paid me? The book really made me aware of the fact  my own habits have the potential for really screwing up my kids (when I  have some) and that kinda shook me up a bit.  <br />Because, in fact, her  parents are the ones who really turned Lori into the anorexic she became  and they didn't even realize they were doing it.  Her mother is not only a  terrible influence on Lori's eating habits (Lori picked up a lot of her  behaviors FROM her mother), but she's also self-centered and childish.  She  doesn't give a damn about her daughter -- she's just concerned that having  a skeletal child will reflect poorly on her.  I wanted to smack her.  And  her father, though obviously caring, didn't put two-and-two together and  tell her the obvious -- YOU ARE THIN and YOUR MOTHER IS JUST CRAZY, IGNORE  HER.<br />I went on my first diet in the third grade and it took me about 20  years to realize I look great the way I am. People, we have GOT to do  better than that. I wish all parents of little girls would read this book.   <br />Incidentally, one reviewer here said the book was totally unbelieveable  because at the end Lori looks at herself in the mirror and suddenly  recovers.  I don't think that's actually what happens.  The book ENDS  there, but it doesn't say &quot;and that's when I was cured of my  anorexia.&quot;  Of course it's not that simple.  And I bet you Lori would  probably be the last person ever to say it was.<br />Read this book!	2000-06-16
US	52495100	RJU1LVA62VQQ3	0345422120	467991980	Catfish Cafe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Exciting!	PI Thomas Black, an ex-Seattle cop, is asked by his old partner, Luther, for help finding Luther's daughter. The daughter had been driving a car later found turned over in a ditch with a dead body in the back seat. Did  she kill him? Is someone trying to kill her? Is she already dead? This was  an exciting and very well-written mystery. The tunnel scene at the end had  me so riveted I missed my bus stop. Now that's something! Highly  recommended!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2LL6XH74G0G3	0812929802	499536931	Expecting Adam: A True Story of Birth, Rebirth, and Everyday Magic	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Extremely moving story.	Beautiful, inspiring, funny, crazy book about Beck's experience carrying and then caring for her son Adam, a Down's Syndrome baby. Not only is Beck so honest sometimes she made me want to cry, but her story is just truly  amazing. I don't know if I believe everything thing she was saying she  experienced while pregnant with Adam (lots of really weird psychic-y  stuff), but I do know that I really really want to. I loved this book.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	RARLK7B2ITZLS	0399145664	105065636	Family Honor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Spenser in a dress!	Usually, if I really love a series written by an author, I can't stand any of their other books or series. I'm not sure why that is, but it might have something to do with being bitter that they have spent time on something  OTHER than the series that I so desperately love. However, Parker's newest  is almost the same exact creation as Parker's oldest (Spenser). The  protagonist is a PI in Boston who will work for free if the case merits the  generosity. The protagonist also has the exact same sharp and witty  personality as Spenser. The only real difference is that this new PI is a  woman. And she can't cook. At all. Other than that, it's essentially a  Spenser novel and man-oh-man does that make me happy. Two series for the  price of one! Yahoo! So, if you're a Spenser fan, check it out. The plot is  a LOT like one of the plots in an old Spenser novel, but who the heck  cares? It's great!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2XYSJNQK8W3MT	067972902X	674609752	Running the Amazon	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not the best in the genre.	Chronicle of Kane's voyage from one end of the Amazon all the way to the other. Full of mountain climbs, rafting adventures, and tales of the local culture. Also full of a lot of arguing and back-stabbing (the group who set  out to do this were not the best of friends). I enjoyed parts of this, but  it got pretty bogged down in places. Enjoyed Tracy Johnston's  &quot;Shooting the Boh&quot; much more and recommend it over this one.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2FE815RVW4LOB	0312242271	899778882	Place Last Seen: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Emotional roller-coaster ride	Extremely empathic novel about a couple who go on a camping trip in the Sierra Nevadas with their two children: Luke, 9 or 10; and 5-year-old Maggie, who has Down Syndrome. When Maggie runs off to hide from her brother during a game, Luke turns around and cannot find her. Maggie has  disappeared. An all-out search and rescue ensues, with trackers and dogs,  as the family, each member blaming themselves, begins to crumble from fear,  grief, and self-loathing. The emotions were so real, I forgot these people  were fictional. The writing is a little weak in places, buth this is a  thoroughly enjoyable novel. I wouldn't recommend it for parents of young  children, though.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R26JJ0LDAN8KDN	0553571737	752077276	Under the Beetle's Cellar	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Engrossing and scary.	Mesmerizing thriller about a crazy cult leader and his followers who kidnap a bus driver and 11 of his young passengers (all under the age of 11) and bury them underground in a school bus for 50 days. The story has  two setttings -- the outside world, featuring a reporter who is trying to  find out as much as possible about the cult leader's past so she can figure  out a way to convince him to let the children go -- and the world inside  the bus, where the bus driver, a Vietnam vet with no experience with  children, overcomes his own fear to try to keep the kids calm and safe. He  starts telling them a story in installments, one chapter a day, and also  begins working on a way to barracade themselves in the bus in preparation  for the day he knows is coming, the day the cult leader will try to  sacrifice them all. Something about these kids and that bus driver's story  (about a turkey vulture named Jacksonville) really drew me in. This is  probably the first time a stock thriller has ever reduced me to tears by  the end (of course, I did have a fever of 102 at the time). Highly  recommended!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R35WEQGW11Y5C6	0786862823	996514530	The Honey Thief	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Highly recommended!	When eleven-year-old Eva is picked up on her fourth shoplifting charge, her mother Miriam decides it's time to pack up all their stuff and move to the country. Eva is convinced her mother hates her and is trying to ruin her life, but at the same time is absolutely DESPERATE to be close to her.  In their new place, Miriam immediately starts work, leaving Eva with an  elderly babysitter who lets her just run off into the woods every day. It's  in the woods that Eva meets Burl, a middle-aged beekeeper who takes her on  as his apprentice. This is a wonderful novel that explores everything from  coming-of-age to mother-daughter relationships to how keeping secrets in a  family can tear everybody apart. Oh yeah, and it's about bees, too.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R3L8VRGXLLRG4E	0767902440	581222254	The Fisherman's Son	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Only okay.	Drifting in a life raft off the coast of California, Neil Kruger keeps himself going by sinking into memories of his childhood days spent helping his father, a commercial fisherman. Parts of this were really good, but the  whole seemed pretty clumsy. I think it would've been better if it had JUST  been about Neil's childhood and father -- the life raft scenes seemed added  at the last minute and really didn't do anything to make the story more  cohesive. Sure, there were some parallels the author was trying to bring  out, but he didn't do them smoothly or subtlely enough for me. Still, I  read the dang thing, didn't I? That's gotta say something about it, right?	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2106CJM97LGMY	0609606328	30347471	Shadow Baby: A Novel	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Strange and wonderful	In contrast to what a reviewer above said, I'm always really GLAD when someone else starts their review with a synopsis of the plot.  Everybody's perception of what happened in a novel is a little bit different -- some  people see one thing as the novel's focus and others something else.  It  can tell you a lot about a novel to read several different descriptions of  the story (unless they're all swiping their descriptions from the book  jacket!).  So, here's the book that *I* read when I read &quot;Shadow  Baby&quot;:<br />Novel about 11-year-old Clara Winter (who prefers having her  last name pronounced without the capital letter -- &quot;winter&quot; --  which tells you quite a bit about her precocious character). When she is  given a school assignment to interview an elderly person, she latches onto  an old immigrant man living in a trailer, Georg.  Clara's whole world is  constructed of stories, so many of which she has invented herself that she  can hardly remember what is true and what isn't. Through her friendship  with Georg, Clara learns how to see the world in a new way -- to see  everything without focusing on any one thing. And through that, she  gradually begins to learn how to let go of her obsession with the past.  This was a very touching novel about both a girl coming-of-age and the  wisdom one can find in the strangest places -- in an illiterate old  metalworker and in a mixed-up 11-year-old girl. Recommended!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R1QX50UWBKGMXV	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great summer novel!	Deaver's latest thriller, this one about an expert in forensics who specializes in documents, that is called out of retirement by the FBI to help them stop a killer. The killer, named &quot;The Digger,&quot; has been  ordered by a man to shoot as many people as he can in public places every  four hours or until the city pays him a ransom. The good news is the guy in  charge gets killed crossing the street. The bad news is, the guy he  convinced to do the shooting is crazy and simple-minded and doesn't know  his boss is dead. Things get ugly. Nice cameo appearance from Lincoln  Rhymes, the main character of another Deaver series, also a forensics  expert. This was everything Deaver's other books have been -- suspenseful,  well-written, and full of interesting people.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R114SQBTYXBF6Y	0684855135	588044605	The Last Dance: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Yahoo!  He's back!	The newest 87th Precinct novel (yay! yay!); also happens to be the FIFTIETH 87th Precinct novel (and I'll be damned, but it's true -- I've read all 50). These are great, great books, people. The characters are  terrific, the plots are usually pretty good, and getting to read a new one  is like getting to spend an afternoon with a bunch of friends you haven't  seen for awhile. Marvelous! This one is about a suspicious hanging death of  an old man, who, it turns out, held the rights to a play that was a real  flop, but is suddenly a very hot commodity. Who killed him? Was it for the  play? What's the deal? Truth be told, I couldn't care less -- I just wanted  to hang out with Carella, Meyer, and Kling and shake my head at Fat Ollie  Weeks again. If you haven't read any of these, you are one lucky cookie --  you get to read them all for the first time!  So, get going!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2ECEUTZ3Y3GML	0312192487	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Recommended!	Very enjoyable mystery featuring an ex-cop, ex-baseball player, current private investigator named Alex McKnight. He retired from the force after he was nearly killed by a maniac named Maximilian Rose. When two bookies in  his small town are found murdered, all the signs point to Rose as the  killer. But that is impossible -- the prison swears he's still in his cell  and will be for the rest of his life. So who is leaving spooky notes on  Alex's door, saying things only Alex and Rose know about? I was totally  surprised by the ending (but part of that might be because I was busy for a  week and was only reading it a few pages at a time). Am looking forward to  the next book in the series (if there ever is one!).	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2S3Z6J1IFGE90	1559704950	897096751	All Quiet On The Orient Express	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strange but intriguing.	Strange story about a young man who decides to take a short camping trip before heading off to explore India. However, while he's camping, the campground's owner asks him if he'd do an odd job in exchange for the  camping fees he owed. Soon that odd job is leading to even ODDER odd jobs  and before he knows it, he's moved in and started working full-time. But  something about the whole thing feels really strange. First, there's all  that green paint. Then there's a convenient death. This book really held my  attention -- in fact, I read it in one sitting -- but I was disappointed in  the ending. It almost seemed like Mills was on a strict deadline and just  had to stop working when he got to the end of it, whether he was done with  the story or not. At the same time, something about the novel's tone makes  me wonder if he didn't do that on purpose just to disappoint the readers.  Some kind of satire of contrived sinister-ness? Hard to say, but I'm  definitely intrigued and will look for his earlier novel, The Restraint of  Beasts.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R19WVLWXW3TCDV	0140051996	512449782	The Sea, the Sea	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	I don't know why, but I LOVED this book!	I'm not entirely sure how to describe this novel, though I absolutely loved every word of it. It's kind of about a 60-ish man named Charles Arrowby, who has retired from a glittering career in the London theater and  gone to live by the sea. The book is his journal -- mostly focusing early  on about his thoughts on women and how totally wonderful he is. At first, I  liked him, then I realized he was the most egotistical and jealous person I  have ever encountered -- the combination resulted, for him, in a trail of  women totally mad about him that he used and then tossed. All but one, a  woman named &quot;Hartley,&quot; who dumped him first when they were both  young and then became his life-long obsession. When he discovers her living  in the village with a jealous and abusive husband, he goes completely crazy  and tries to kidnap her and convince her to stay with him forever. I kept  hoping he might learn from the experience that women aren't toys and that  they don't all worship him just because HE thinks he's so great. He  doesn't, though. The book ends with him totally unchanged by all the  bizarre and tragic things that happen to him (and already on his way to  hooking up with another woman who worships him). If this book hadn't been  written the way it was, and I cannot describe what made it so, I would've  tossed it aside in disgust over the main character's personality. But  instead, I couldn't put it down. Remarkable -- that's the best word to  describe it. Magical and bizarre. Read this book!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R1O7IK3UO2BAZ0	1573221260	102919966	The Funnies	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recommended!	Very funny novel about the wildly disfunctional family of a cartoonist who drew a Family-Circus-esque strip featuring his kids and wife. When he dies suddenly, his children, now semi-estranged from the family, are pleased  when they get a pretty even distribution of the wealth -- all except for  Tim, who is left the strip and given three months to learn how to draw it  like his father did or get nothing. Succeeding means selling out, but it  also means inheriting a gold mine. Very well-written and unexpectedly comic  in sections. I really enjoyed this!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R16RMH0AG5ZED3	0671776126	362447474	Plain Truth	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting and interesting legal mystery	When defense attorney Ellie decides to take a hiatus from her life, she retreats to her aunt Leda's house in Lancaster, PA. Leda is an excommunicated Amish women who still lives close to the community she was  raised in. When Leda gets a phone call shortly after Ellie arrives and  rushes off to the hospital, Ellie is intrigued. Soon the story comes out --  Leda's niece, a young Amish girl named Katie, has given birth to a baby out  of wedlock and the baby has been discovered dead and hidden in the barn.  Katie has been accused of murdering the child, though vehemently denies  ever being pregnant in the first place. Leda pleads with Ellie to take the  case and Ellie reluctantly agrees. To secure bail for Katie, the judge  makes Ellie swear to move in with her family and not let Katie go anywhere  without her. So, suddenly Ellie is back in the courtroom AND living on an  Amish farm instead of enjoying her planned vacation. Initially, she isn't  too happy about this, but as she gets to know Katie, she realizes something  just isn't right here. First of all, Katie is definitely holding something  back.  But is it really possible that an Amish girl could kill her own  child? This was a very engrossing and exciting courtroom drama that kept me  glued to a chair for the last 100 pages. Even though the author drops a  clue about 2/3's of the way through that is too obvious, I still was a  little bit surprised at the end when I realized my suspicions were right.  That's ALWAYS a good quality in a mystery. I really enjoyed this novel --  not only was the plot good, but getting to know the Amish way of life was  truly fascinating. Highly recommended!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2H6KYFM87SGP3	1574901354	664241400	Dark Road Home (Maplecreek Amish Trilogy #1)	Books	1	9	19	N	N	Want an Amish mystery? Try &quot;Plain Truth&quot; instead.	Pretty bad novel about attorney Brooke Benton (yuck!) who flees the big city (she's being stalked by a maniac who's mad she got a killer off) and moves to Amish country. Not long after she's there, a big truck runs into a  buggy full of Amish teens and then flees the scene. The teens all die and  Brooke takes over the investigation. All the while, she's swooning over  Daniel, a studly Amish guy, and crying a lot. Pretty badly written, not  that entertaining, and a little bit patronizing about the Amish, but it  takes a lot more than that to get me to put down a book once I've started  it. Maybe it's a pride thing. I honestly can't explain why I bothered  reading past page 35.<br />A far, far better mystery involving the Amish  community is Jodi Picoult's &quot;Plain Truth.&quot;  Head on over there  and buy that one instead!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2YE7IT10Y884G	0380788799	163080404	Hearts and Bones	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Recommended!	Historical thriller about a woman raped for three straight days and then murdered in her own home in a small country town in Maine, 1786. Her body is discovered by the town's midwife, Hannah Trevor, who also happens to be  the ex-mistress of the number one suspect. Very engaging. Interesting  construction, too -- it's not really set up like a typical novel. Some  chapters are interviews with suspects, some chapters are coroner's reports,  etc.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	RED5293KE4IZ3	0140275118	568723912	A Celibate Season	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Well-written but forced.	The story of a marriage, told completely through letters the couple exchange, during a year of separation. A really great idea, but it was missing something. The letters seemed too planned (by the authors, not the  characters). I felt the plot needed to fall out of the letters by accident  (if that makes any sense) and instead it was pushed at the reader. Also,  without giving too much away, something happens at the end that I felt was  both cliche and unfair to the characters. I was annoyed by it -- I felt the  authors didn't give their own characters any credit. I was surprised by my  reaction to the book since I know both authors are award-winners. Maybe  there were just too many cooks involved?	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2WDTEDX65CCW4	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Highly recommended!	Wonderful novel about a mother and her daughter struggling with their emotions for each other and the men they think they love. The mother (Isabelle), a mill worker, is enfatuated with her married boss, who has  begun to snub her. Her 16-year-old daughter (Amy) has fallen in love with  her math teacher, who uses and then ditches her. As they try to figure out  how to process their respective broken hearts, they begin to pull away from  each other as well. But can mothers and daughters ever truly break that  line that connects them? Very moving and compassionate novel, with amazing  characters (who provide a great deal of comic relief) and profound wisdom.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R7WPH9VC6NSS5	067102728X	852627230	Face Down In The Park	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good story, not so good writing	Mystery about a man who regains consciousness face down in a park (hence the title). Not only does he have a nasty head wound, he also has complete amnesia. When an aerobics instructor comes to his rescue (reluctantly), the  two begin trying to reconstruct his memory. The closer they get to the  truth, the more dangerous things look for both of them. The problem with  this book was that when two writers write one novel, it comes out clumsy,  no matter what they try to do to avoid that. I enjoyed it, but I probably  won't look for their others.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R3P7BCH0B4R313	0684836017	693377574	ONE YEAR OFF: Leaving It All Behind for A Round-the-World Journey with Our Children	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great book for armchair travelers!	Absolutely delightful book about the year Cohen and his wife quit their jobs, sold their house, and took their three children (9, 7, and 2) on a year-long adventure around the world. Not only is Cohen a great writer when  it comes to description of foreign places and sights (I totally want to go  to Costa Rica now), but he's also very funny. The two elements combine to  make this a very charming book. I heartily recommend it, though I suspect  if I were a parent myself, I would've been more horrified than amused at  some of the situations they got into. You might want to take that into  consideration!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2S9TPHF4CDS1A	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Pretty vacuous novel.	A self-described &quot;story of a marriage,&quot; this novel follows a young couple through the first year of their life together, living in a falling-down house on the edge of Gap Creek in Appalachia (arond the end of  the 1800's, I'd say). Just about every bad thing that can happen, does.  Which is fine with me. But the characters are poorly drawn and the  storyline seemed kind of pointless to me. Now, that doesn't make a lot of  sense, I know. It's just a novel that is supposed to be a year pulled out  of these people's lifetime. There doesn't HAVE to be a point. Yet other  novels that do the same thing haven't left me feeling like I missed  something. I enjoyed this book, but it isn't anything special. If you want  to read a book about the hardships, triumphs, and strengths of people  living under harsh conditions, read the &quot;Little House on the  Prarie&quot; books again. This was a lot like them, except it lacked  everything that made those books great. Like depth. I'm not sure why Oprah  selected this one -- there ain't much to talk about.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R1H55KEJBB8VRO	0688174035	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Scary and delightful	Hannah Gray, an elderly woman, returns to the house she summered in as a young woman and decides to tell us the story of the summer she spent falling in love and being terrorized by a ghost. Her story is separated by  the story of a family who lived on the island across from Hannah's old  summer house over 100 years prior to that fatefull summer. The love story  is intense and unforgettable, the ghost story is scary as hell (the scene  with the ghost in the rocking chair kept me awake the night after I read  it!), and the connection between Hannah's ghost and the old island family  that slowly emerges as the stories progress will totally surprise you. I  could not put this down once I picked it up. It's FANTASTIC.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2ECRWX561I9BN	0380794365	669894558	Fire and Ice	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Suspenseful!	Doctors Sarah and Michael Stone, along with their young daughter Ronnie, seem to have a pretty ideal life. They sail around the Pacific treating patients all over the islands. Just as they are about to pull into a remote  atoll to see if anybody needs help, they get a call from a giant carrier  ship nearby: it's captain has been seriously injured and needs urgent  medical care. So, Sarah and Ronnie drop off Michael to check out the atoll  and continue alone to the ship. The next thing they know, their boat has  been hoisted up and they've been kidnapped. Michael has to figure out how  to save them before it's too late! Pretty exciting plot, though it got a  little slow in places.	2000-06-14
US	52495100	R2HHFBFV3RXDK0	067976786X	574399580	The Collected Works of Billy the Kid	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Strange and wonderful	This collection of prose and poetry traces William Bonney's passage across New Mexico. Some of the short passages (on average, one per page) are Billy's voice, others Pat Garrett, some of Billy's friends, or his  girlfriend. This was a delightful discovery, being both a fan of great  writing and of westerns (you don't often encounter both in the same place).  Ondaatje's writing here reminded me strongly of ee cummings, which is a  very high compliment! Recommended!	2000-06-14
US	52495100	RAMX0ZZ1A451W	0140288546	83160781	Think Like a Cat: How to Raise a Well-Adjusted Cat--Not a Sour Puss	Books	5	127	128	N	Y	A great resource!	I just got my first cat (she's 6 months old) and have been searching around desperately ever since for a good, solid reference book full of everything I need to know to keep my cat healthy and happy.  A kind of  &quot;Our Bodies, Our Selves&quot; for my pet, you could say.  But most of  the books I found were all pictures, no substance.<br />I stumbled across this  one when I found it on a sale table.  I thought it was just going to be a  handbook on cat psychology, but it turns out it's much, much more!<br />This  book has information on just about everything you would ever need to know  about taking care of your kitty.  It's got a chapter on every subject I had  a question about, plus informational lists (like, of which houseplants are  poisonous), very detailed and easy-to-follow instructions (like, on how to  do CPR on your cat), and extremely innovative ideas and solutions to common  problems (like, how to keep your cat off your kitchen counters).<br />I  heartily recommend this book to everybody who has a cat or is thinking  about getting one.  It's terrific!	2000-03-13
US	52495100	R3RCG4003MXJXC	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Enjoyable but kind of empty.	I have read all of the &quot;Oprah books&quot; and am usually quite impressed with her selections.  But this one, while enjoyable, isn't really anything special at all.  The characters are not developed very well and  the story isn't terribly creative.  <br />It sort of reminded me of an  abridged version of the &quot;Little House&quot; novels, except that the  characters in those books were incredibly three-dimensional and Laura,  while also a hard worker who struggled through tough situations and  survived, was twenty times more interesting and inspiring than Gap Creek's  heroine, Julie.  Julie is a dud.  Yeah, she works hard, but most women in  those days did.  Take that away and there really wasn't anything about her  that made her stand out to me.  Instead of being inspiring or admirable,  she seemed kind of average.  Not that I require that characters in a novel  be incredible people, but Morgan was obviously trying to make me THINK she  was incredible and it just wasn't convincing.<br />The writing is wonderful --  you can tell the author is a poet.  But the characters and storyline are  flat.  It's definitely worth your time, but it's not up to par with some of  Oprah's other selections.	2000-02-24
US	52495100	R15LKHU74RRXT0	0679736514	616884127	Intruder in the Dust	Books	5	9	13	N	N	There are no rules in fiction, kids.	Excellent novel about a black man (Lucas Beauchamp) falsely accused of murdering a white man and the boy who believes him and sets out to prove his innocence. On the one hand, it's about sticking to your guns when you  know a man is being wronged (&quot;Some things you must always be unable to  bear. Some things you must never stop refusing to bear. Injustice and  outrage and dishonor and shame. No matter how young you are or how old you  have got. Not for kudos and not for cash: your picture in the paper nor  money in the bank either. Just refuse to bear them&quot; (p201)). On the  other hand, Faulkner goes off a bit at the end about the Civil War (no  surprise here) and says that the North stuck to its guns too severely --  that most Southerners believed slavery was wrong but just needed the time  to work it all out, not the strongarming into a position weren't ready to  assume: &quot;. . .and you [the North] say At least we perish in the name  of humanity and we [the South] reply When all is stricken but that  nominative pronoun and that verb what price Lucas' humanity then?&quot;(p.  212). God, I love that man.        This is a good one to start with if  you're a Faulkner rookie -- it's pretty short and doesn't do any flipping  around in time. <br />As for all the comments about how bad Faulkner's grammar  is (run-on sentences, no punctuation, etc. etc. ad nauseum), you guys are  all forgetting that there are only rules governing these things when you're  writing a paper for English Comp.  In the real world, manipulating the  language is what makes writers great.  Say you don't like it, but don't say  it's garbage just because it doesn't live up to Strunk and White.  Being a  critic is cool, being a criticaster is not.	1999-12-08
US	52495100	R1ZJBJMQBF3ONZ	0609603213	500676580	The Red Devil: To Hell with Cancer--and Back	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing story	This book scared the patooties out of me (if Rich's tumor had been growing for 7 years before she found it, that means it started when she was MY AGE  -- yikes!), but, even more importantly, it educated and inspired me.  She's  a great writer and an extraordinary person.  Read this book!<br />p.s.  It's  not a &quot;novel,&quot; people!  Novels are fiction!	1999-10-28
US	52495100	R1BXGB69SQU9GE	0316569321	613460974	White Oleander	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So good you'll forgive it for its weaknesses.	Very lyrical novel about a young girl whose brilliant but mentally ill mother murders an ex-boyfriend and winds up in prison for life. The girl is bounced around from horrible foster family to horrible foster family while  trying to figure out who she is, who her mother is, and who they are to  become. Some of the writing seemed heavy-handed to me, and some of the plot  seemed unnecessarily manipulative. However, I couldn't put this book down  -- the prose is so good that breaking it up by putting it down was almost  impossible. I wanted to keep the flow going. Very depressing look at foster  care, but an uplifting look at the strength young women in difficult  situations can pull up from within themselves.	1999-05-25
US	52495100	R27H7SRE8KT1UP	0380973413	708894817	The Cowboy Way: Seasons of a Montana Ranch	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Highly recommended!	I loved every minute spent reading this book; perhaps because I've always wanted to be a cowboy on a Montana ranch myself. And, oddly enough, hearing horror stories about days spent in blizzards trying to fix fences and birth  calves while covered from head-to-toe in cow dung and mud didn't change  that feeling one bit! McCumber is a great writer -- captures not only the  look of Montana, but the feel of it, too.  And the fact he had a fantastic  time makes it all the more fun for the reader.  Read this book!  You'll  love it!	1999-04-29
