US	52498394	R9A05G802CK0B	0805440453	137952291	The ACLU vs. America: Exposing the Agenda to Redefine Moral Values	Books	5	48	65	N	N	The truth about the ACLU	The truth about the ACLU is they do not, never have and never will do single thing, in any manner, way shape or form, to protect \\"civil liberties\\". <br /> <br />The truth about the ACLU is that they were founded by communist traitors to our country (this is not an opinion...it is documented fact) who worked at the behest of the old soviet union to try and bring down our democracy and bring the communist revolution to the US. <br /> <br />The truth about the ACLU is that this organization, and many others which are run by all the same people, STILL has this agenda even after the fall of the soviets and the revelation that socialism/communism resulted in hundreds of millions of people being murdered.....most of them worked to death as slaves (again....cold, hard fact) and instituted grinding poverty, despair and outright evil on a scale unknown in human history.  Amazingly, they hang on to this agenda even though communism/socialism has done mostly the same thing in every single other place on the planet it has shown up.  They work tirelessly to bring that here. <br /> <br />The truth about the ACLU is that they think they can bring down our society by stripping us of moral values, making faith illegal, making it common to murder babies, making it impossible to have a family, redistribution of wealth from producers of that wealth to crack addicts, promoting drug use, blocking government action against both domestic criminals and domestic and international terrorists, and a legion of other screwed up things. <br /> <br />The truth is that these fruitloops call anyone who says \\"Hey....look what these guys are doing\\", nazis, racist, homophobes, sexist, environmental criminals and a host of other things that don't even make sense. <br /> <br />The absolute TRUTH is that people in the US are becoming increasingly aware of this situation and are beginning to reject them, once they know what they are REALLY all about. <br /> <br />The days of the leftist traitors are seriously numbered.	2005-09-26
US	52498394	R38CQLSS5OU3NZ	0385515375	460992127	Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, and the Roots of Terror	Books	2	15	57	N	N	Dangerously misleading	Although this is one of the better books of this nature, the author puts forth a dangerously misleading premise that is not only dishonest, but has lead repeatedly to the extinction of large number of people during the history of Islam.  The author would have you believe that terrorism is reactionary in nature.  That at the heart of the situation is a legitimate conflict.  Almost the entire of human history, ESPECIALLY the history of Islam, reveals that to be a lie.  Islam, from its inception is one long pattern of murder, mayhem, rape, pillage and enslavement against people who did it no wrong.  That is the POINT of the \\"religion\\".  The terrorists are not extremists.  They are good muslims doing exactly what their religion demands with the full support (in word and deed) of near 100% of the muslim community in all countries.  They are doing what they are doing because they perceive the western world as weak and ripe for conquest and no other reason.  Or, to put it another way, there is nothing we did to influence them to do this and nothing we can do (short of exterminating every last one of them) to get them to stop what they are doing.  Any attempts to negotiate will be used as a method to kill us.  At least, that is what has happened to every single culture that has dealt with this problem with Islam in this way throughout history.  The only ones to survive are the ones that fought them and gave no quarter.  And that is exactly what we must do. <br /> <br />This is very difficult for the western mind to grasp but Islam is the cause of terrorism.  Terrorism is its reason d'etre.	2005-08-03
US	52498394	R1XZNDWL4EY08Q	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	1	25	131	N	N	Intentionally and dangerously misleading	I cannot believe how ignorant this book is and I find it frightening in the extreme that this opinion of terrorism is so prevalent.  Obviously, the author has not bothered to research the history and tenants of Islam or he would know that 1)Bin Laden is simply a good muslim doing exactly as his religion commands and with full support in all ways from near 100% of ALL muslims worldwide, especially in the west.  And 2)Islam has been waging wars of aggression and exterminating whole cultures nearly nonstop during its entire existence.  The only time they pause is when they are much weaker than their victims.  Unfortunately, they perceive the west in general and america in particular as weak and ripe for conquest.  THERE IS NO CONCESSION OR CHANGE IN POLICY OR ANYTHING ELSE WE CAN GIVE THEM TO NEGOTIATE AN END TO THEIR EVIL BEHAVIOR!!!!!  This is the mistake that was made with the Nazis (indeed most terrorists like Bin Laden show great admiration for Hitler and nazism and Islam have a long and continuing working relationship to this day).  Countries tried to give Hitler what he wanted, tried to treat the situation as a legitimate conflict they could negotiate.  This gross misrespresentation of where Hitler was coming from, allowed one easy conquest after another....followed by mass murder.  The Islamics are exactly the same and hope the west is stupid enough to fall for the same trick. <br /> <br />Worse....much worse.  There is more than enough reason to believe that leftists like this author know full well what is going on and are trying to trick people.  They WANT the west to capitulate to the terrorists because they hope that eventually the terrorists will wage massive compaigns, murdering millions of us with biological and nuclear weapons....causing our governments to fall.  Incredibly, they hope to take over during the chaos.  Most, don't even think that far ahead.  They are nihilists.  Without cause they characterize the western world as evil and corrupt.  They like to put this in terms of racist, sexist, homophobic and ecologically destructive (so what if we are like the total opposite in every way).  They figure anything is better and justify any way of destroying our way of life including treason. <br /> <br />That's what this book is about.  It is an attempt to convince people that what the current administration is doing is misguided (and quite frankly terrorism is OUR fault) so that they will vote in the democrats who plan to cooperate with Islam in taking us over.  If you don't know that is what is going on with the democrats, then you need to take a good close look at Kerry and his history of treason with communist regimes (up to preventing the US from interfering as they murdered millions and millions of innocent people....some of them our own).  Better, you need to look at the behavior of ALL the past and present democrat politicals. Like Carter denouncing the US and praising the sick and murderous Castro.  Or Clinton's role in providing North Korea with a nuclear weapons program (not to mention his being in bed with China.....those friends of ours who recently got caught planning to nuke us).	2005-08-03
US	52498394	R32IGRJUPTJJYO	1890626511	86768060	Left Illusions: An Intellectual Odyssey	Books	5	13	20	N	N	As brilliant as it is disturbing	I think it is very important for most people to read books by Horowitz.  His books contain vital information about what certain organizations, both in our country and abroad, are doing that it is downright dangerous for people to ignore.  He mostly sticks to the facts and is careful to document everything he talks about.  He is very careful to describe and document the history behind what is going on and explain why these people are doing what they are doing.  And what they are doing is actively, aggressively, and malevolently, trying to destroy the united states and every shred of democracy in the world....to replace it with one form or another of totalitarianism.  Remember what happened in russia under communism?  Hundreds of millions of people murdered.  Oppression on a scale previously unknown in human history.  Economic and ecological disaster on a massive scale....to the point that the average person didn't have even the basic necessities of food, clothing, shelter, safety, or even a living environment free of life threatening levels of contamination.  THAT is what these people want to bring here.  Incredibly, THAT is what they want to bring to every single country in the world.  The causes have changed, but the methods and goals remain the same....and the facts exposing this are undeniable. <br /> <br />If you read Horowitz's books, you will never vote democrat again (and you will know that those that do are either ignorant or evil....sometimes both), you will never again support any of the groups associated with the left, knowing them to be fronts for something sinister.  You will never again look at other countries, and especially people, who hold anti-american sentiments as being motivated by anything other than extreme evil.  You will recognize that Islam isn't a religion and is, instead, a cult of death, whose sole purpose is to foster armageddon.....and that most Islamics are fully aware of this, support this, and lie about it. <br /> <br />Don't take my word for it and don't dismiss it without finding out for yourself.  I guarentee, that if you actually read Horowitz's works, you will draw the same conclusions that I have.  The arguments are iron clad and the evidence is clear, specific, easily observed, and undeniable.  This is in direct contrast to the liars and apologists on the left who say it isn't so.  Those people talk in vague emotional terms, designed to manipulate people.  Not so with Horowitz.  Although he writes with passion, he talks mostly about observable, well documented facts.  What he talks about is directly observable and undeniable.  Powerful arguments from a powerful mind. <br /> <br />Left illusions is mostly about the historical roots of the left and how that has evolved into their current mindset, goals, and behavior.  This book is indispensible for understanding where the left, in general, and the democratic party, specifically, is coming from. <br /> <br />Other books by him talk more directly about what, specifically, they are doing to destroy us (if we let them).  This book is about WHY they are doing it.	2005-06-12
US	52498394	RZ2M3N11VG4XI	0465017193	966408707	Is Bill Cosby Right?: Or Has the Black Middle Class Lost Its Mind	Books	1	12	34	N	N	Yes....Bill Cosby is absolutely right!	But, there is much more to this story.  The author of this book would have you believe that government and society is responsible for this situation, claiming that we are the cause of poverty among blacks and that poverty is the cause of the problem.  Not only is that not true, but the proponents of that view KNOW that it is untrue.  Immoral and unwise choices among people are almost 100% the cause of poverty, especially trans-generational poverty.  We have literally decades of experiences proving this beyond a shadow of a doubt.  Poverty doesn't breed racism, hatred, drug use, prostitution, crime and other violence, murder, rape, gangs and the general degradation of humanity.  THOSE THINGS CAUSE POVERTY! The way....and I mean the ONLY way for blacks to conquer poverty and gain any amount of the good life, is for them to turn their back on this foolishness.  Bill Cosby knows that and so does the author of this book.  The difference though, is Bill Cosby wants what is best for american blacks.  He is trying splash a cold bucket of water in their faces to get them to wake up.  Dyson, on the other hand, is TRYING TO TRICK AMERICAN BLACKS.  Why?  Because he wants to put down his own people in a particularly vicious form of racism and slavery.....the type that seeks, not to break one's spirit, but rather to prevent that spirit from being formed in the first place.  This is all part of an agenda, by the left, to enslave mankind....by destroying the very root of a person's strength....his basic goodness, decency and humanity.  The left has been trying to do this since the days when they were openly communist and betraying our country to the old style soviet union.  Since that brand of totalitarian nonsense evaporated, they have desperately been trying to keep the failed dream alive.  And they don't care how many lives they destroy in the process.  The best advice I can give american blacks specifically, and people in general, is to not be fooled by people like Dyson.  Theytell you what you want to hear...that it isn't your fault....that what you choose to do with your life is your own business and has no consequences, least of all for you.  That is a lie.  These people are rubbing their hands together in wicked glee, hoping you will fall for it and become their slaves.  DON'T FALL FOR IT!  Hold on to all those things that make you powerful and benevolent....that make you a good and righteous person.  Turn your back on evil.  That's the recipe for success, love, joy, happiness and a good life.  Don't let Dyson take that away from you.	2005-05-22
US	52498394	R37LY6ABNL580V	083864077X	472713745	Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis	Books	5	65	85	N	N	The pussification of Europe	There is a concept in Islam...one of its central tenants actually that demands its followers not only forcibly convert/enslave/kill all people in the world to Islam but to do so only when relatively strong compared to the enemy (anybody not-Islamic or not that particular brand of Islamic).  When you are weak, it is demanded that you act friendly and try to insinuate yourself into their culture, waiting for an opportunity to attack.  These are demands.  Failure to comply carries the death penalty and no dissent is allowed.  Luckily, the Islamics are so crazy that every single concentration of them weakens and fails, just like it does with ALL non-legitimate political movements.  And Islam was NEVER a religion, any more than the moonies were a religion.  The central founders had zero belief in what they profess and made the whole thing up as a tool for tricking gullible/evil people into helping them sieze power. <br /> <br />In the modern age, the Islamics haven't gained much in the way of real power.  Yes, they have economic power in the form of oil, but only because we (in we, I mean the civilized world) gave it to them in the hopes they would use it to drag themselves out of the muck and make something of themselves.  Stupid idea that has lead to the current state of world affairs, but that's another story.  What's important to note is just how messed up our good european allies are.  Not learning their lessen from nearly being wiped out by the Nazis, they are once again in danger of being wiped out (and I'm not talking euphemism here....I fear for actual genocide) but not by a strong military force...oh no.  But, by a weak one.  Literally, they are rolling over with the slightest of provocation.  You see this in all aspects of european society...from the tolerance of drug users, the refusal to prosecute serious violent crime, to huge gangs of thugs victimizing the innocent with impunity, to their economic and political policy.  The whole thing is shameful.  So shameful in fact that, when the inevitable happens.....when Islam attempts to formally take over europe and throw people into ovens, and Europe cries out once again to the Unites States for help.  I say, tell them no.	2005-04-27
US	52498394	R1L6HX2RBSCVIS	0761524258	298331485	The Seven Myths of Gun Control: Reclaiming the Truth About Guns, Crime, and the Second Amendment	Books	5	20	34	N	N	Misleading	This book pretty much lays it on the line as to why every single argument made for the control of guns in this country is completely full of crap.  But, what surprises me is a book by Horowitz misses the point on this so completely.  And that point is that the gun control advocates KNOW they are full of crap.  Or more importantly, they are LYING to promote a hidden agenda....and that agenda has dramatic, sweeping implications for any person unlucky enough to be in a position to defend themselves from violence.  The reason this surprises me is Horowitz's other books do such a good job of describing and then documenting how liberals, leftists activist judges and democrats are pretty much engaged in a full on attempt to bring down our government and wipe out america so as to grab power for themselves in some form of totalitarian state.  This issue is just another piece of the puzzle. If you look carefully at the pattern in the changes of laws dealing with criminals, you will see that more and more, criminals are shielded from the harm their actions invariably bring on themselves (both from the criminal justice system and from victims that fight back).  And in no place is that worse than in laws having to do with the use of lethal force to protect yourself.  Yeah, gun control is a serious threat to our freedom.  But, that's not the real problem.  THE problem is if you have to shoot some crack addicted fool who has come to murder you and your family, there is incredibly high chance that YOU will end up in prison, getting gang raped every single day for the rest of your comparatively short life!  The problem is far worse in specific places in the country (do whatever you must to move out of those areas by the way).  What a surprise, those areas all happen to be blue states....cough.  But, even if you miraculously survive the powerful assault the police and courts will wage on you to throw your butt in jail, there is the matter of lawsuits.  You will be sued by the criminal that attacked you, 100% of the time, unless you are smart enough to live in a state like Colorado that has laws specifically preventing that sort of dual victimization (ALL criminals do this, by the way, to their victims after getting caught, no matter how frivolous or unlikely their case).  Because of these problems, to say it is NOT a good idea to go packing, is an understatement.  The truth is the gun control issue is moot because in most places in the US, we have already lost.  You can carry your gun, but heaven help you if you have to use it.  The standard for justifiable use of force is so unreasonably strict that almost nobody can meet it and still survive the encounter.  It won't be long until you will have to have had several rounds pumped into your chest by a criminal, before you are allowed to fight back.  THIS and not the laws having to do with ownership and carry of guns is what is critical at the moment. <br /> <br />What's needed is a total revamp of our criminal justice system to change it in such a way as to do two things....the first is to kick out the people who are there only to bring down our government and replace them with people actually acting as a judiciary.  In extreme cases, that will literally require closing of whole court systems (biggest example I can think of is the 9th circuit).  This has been done in our countries past and for similar reasons.....the judiciary no longer doing its job and instead subverting its position....it's part of the checks and balances of our government system).  The second is to revamp our laws so that they put sole onus of the crime onto the criminal.  Texas is a good template for this.  If somebody enters your home with even the slightest malicious intent, in Texas, you have full freedom to put a bullet in their head and not worry about being thrown in prison for it.  Contrast that with New Jersey, where if you aren't being actively attacked with lethal force (ie he is shooting at you), you are not allowed to fight back in any way.	2005-04-26
US	52498394	R23UCSNDSBPXAE	0895267292	727467617	The Myth of Heterosexual AIDS: How a Tragedy Has Been Distorted by the Media and Partisan Politics	Books	5	27	66	N	N	One of the most important books written on AIDS	AIDS is not a disease.  I know that is a radical thing to say but nevertheless, it is true.  Diseases are a fact of life....opportunistic organisms that share life with us and make us sick when our bodies are out of balance or otherwise weakened.  They make us sick but rarely kill us unless we are severely weakened.  Sickness is a fact of life....it's commonplace.  Not so with AIDS.  It breaks the rules.  Rarely do people get sick and when they do, they show no symptoms until they croak (with a near 100% chance they will croak).  Does that sound like a disease to you?  Why is this important to know?  Because the CAUSE of AIDS does NOT follow the disease model.  AIDS has many of the elements of a disease in its (mostly theoretical) mechanism of action.  However, you ONLY get it if you engage is specific, and quite frankly, highly deviant behaviors.  AIDS is almost entirely the problem of the gay community, the drug using community, the criminal community and prostitution.  All of these overlap to some extent, but the important part to understand is that it is the specific behaviors these people engage in that are the sole cause of AIDS.  It's not that gay sex causes AIDS.  It's that hundreds of unprotected gay sexual contacts a year with mostly anonymous partners (pretty much the standard among gay men) most certain DO cause AIDS.  Intravenous drug use and hanging out with the scum of society causes AIDS.  Prostitution causes AIDS as does the anal rape about 75% of the men in prison experience.  Our society is NOT being effective in treating AIDS because of the political correct insistence of treating it like a disease rather than insisting that deviants in our society give up their dangerous behavior.  Specifically, don't do drugs, ever, for any reason.  Put all prisoners in permanent solitary confinement to protect them from eachother.  Don't use prostitutes (duh).   And, if you are gay, for God's sake, find yourself a nice young man to settle down with and form amonogamous relationship.....geez.	2005-04-23
US	52498394	R2N304MS326Z8M	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	5	22	34	N	N	The most important thing about this book.....	is that it exists at all.  One of the things that people should be EXTREMELY concerned about is how liberals have been manipulating our culture in a way that brings up uncomfortable comparisons to good think from 1984.  This book struck a chord with me because I remember taking REAL history classes while in college and discovering that much of what I was taught in the public school system history classes, was completely wrong...often in a bizarre fashion.  As I get older, more and more, I realize that this is part of some rather complex plot by liberals to try and manipulate me.  It pisses me off and is one of the reasons why I and so many other people will do everything in our democratically provided power to thwart them.  And by this, I don't mean liberal bias.  It is an unfortunate reality that a person's strong convictions tend to color and distort the percieved meanings of what they witness in life.  I'm not talking about that.  I'm talking about intentional lies and other distortions of the truth in order to indoctrinate people into a way of thinking that allows them to get away with an agenda not in everyone's best interest, in a way specifically intended to get around our democracy.  Scary stuff.	2005-04-23
US	52498394	R46HZDWXSAULJ	1595550070	571135939	Home Invasion: Protecting Your Family in a Culture That's Gone Stark Raving Mad	Books	5	34	49	N	N	Unfortunately necessary	Unfortunately, everything this author says is true, and her rather strict and aggressive techniques she proposes to protect your family from this stuff are completely necessary.  I will go so far as to say that if you are stupid enough to scoff at good advice like this, you risk waking up one day to find your child is a gang member or drug prostitute.  Before you start scoffing at me, for being alarmist, I want to point out that is EXACTLY what several of my neighbors and friends with children have had to deal with.  We live in a good area, with negligible crime, and they are good parents and STILL this happened.  It happened because they weren't vigilant and they weren't in control.  They FAILED in their responsibility and paid a high price.  Don't let this happen to you.  Find the strength to throw off the garbage of liberalism and political correctness and get in touch with what is really going on in our culture and do what it takes to prevent it from hurting your family.  On a scary note, the author stops well short of pointing out that this sort of thing is being done ON PURPOSE, by highly evil people, and being aided by sheeple who have their heads rammed so far up their asses, they will never see the light of day again.  This situation calls for strong measures.  You MUST move to an area of the country where the local government, especially the judiciary isn't controlled by granola people (nuts, fruits and flakes).  You MUST get rid of your TV and Internet connection, and severely limit movies and other types of recreation outside the home to only things that are guarenteed wholesome....and maintain a draconian curfew.  You MUST screen who your children are hanging out with and make sure they are under the watchful eye of trusted adults at all times.  You MUST keep track of your neighborhood, especially crime and drugs and gang behavior in your neighborhood  (and understand, it IS in your neigborhood...no exceptions).  You MUST work together with other parents and take an iron grip of control on your school system, especially at the high school level and demand that police, courts and all others paid to look after your family's welfare, do their job.....or else.  You MUST do these things because there are a huge number of wackos and deviants (often working in organized groups that pretend to be benevolent) out their working 24/7, trying to hurt your family in various ways.  Unfortunately, society as a whole has lost the will to root them out and get rid of them, or even criticize them...or even admit anything is wrong.....while one child after another has their life destroyed or even ended.  Don't let that happen to your family.s and take an iron grip of control on your school system, especially at the high school level and demand that police, courts and all others paid to look after your family's welfare, do their job.....or else.  You MUST do these things because there are a huge number of wackos and deviants (often working in organized groups that pretend to be benevolent) out their working 24/7, trying to hurt your family in various ways.  Unfortunately, society as a whole has lost the will to root them out and get rid of them, or even criticize them...or even admit anything is wrong.....while one child after another has their life destroyed or even ended.  Don't let that happen to your family.	2005-04-23
US	52498394	R1XYVCDF6C9G4F	156000309X	981827220	Sex at Risk: Lifetime Number of Partners, Frequency of Intercourse and the Low AIDS Risk of Vaginal Intercourse	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Misses the point	Most of what is in this book is absolutely true.  If you are heterosexual, not part of the trashcan of society (ie a drug using scumbag or ex-con) and have a normal sex life, your chance of getting AIDS is, for all intents and purposes, zero.  In other words, out in the dating world, don't worry about it.  The point I am making is that ALOT of men are using this book and others like it specifically to make the argument that vaginal intercourse is safe and that they can use prostitutes both here and abroad, with impunity.  To be blunt, that's gonna get you killed.  Yes, vaginal intercourse has a low transmission rate.  However, it's nowhere near zero and prostitutes are probably the highest risk partners a man is likely to have contact with unless he is a closet case.  If you use prostitutes, you probably WILL get AIDS, even if you wear a condom.  Worse, you probably WILL give it to your wife....so DON'T do it.  AIDS is rampant among women both in the US and especially in countries men go to get prostitutes.  Partly, that's because close to 100% are pretty heavy drug users, usually intravenous drugs, but mostly, it's because most of their clients are high risk drug scum, ex-cons and other people you absolutely don't want as part of your shared sexual history.  Almost all women who have AIDS are prosititutes.  Almost all risk of AIDS for a heterosexual man comes from prostitutes.  So, stay the hell away from them.  If some fool tells you different and tries to get you to use prostitutes, kick him in the nuts....he needs a serious wake up call.	2005-04-23
US	52498394	R2LBGKQ86CNLHE	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	5	12	38	N	N	What a major BABE!	Ann Coulter, what a major BABE!  Let me tell you that in general principle, Coulter is almost always on the money with what she is saying.  She speaks with passion, conviction, humor and wit, about some of the more screwed up things going on in politics that are causes for grave concern, but are mostly ignored by everybody.  Unfortunately, she has two problems.  The first is she is not well spoken.  And by that I don't mean she isn't articulate.  What I mean is....she speaks like a girl.  Often, she goes on and on about something in vague emotional terms, only to go off on an irrelevent tangent or illustrate a point in a way that is ineffective.  The other problem she has is she tends to pull stuff out of her ass.  She'll say something that she doesn' really know, isn't readily verified, and is often wrong, trying to make a point or give weight to an argument.  It makes her look like an idiot and I wish she would stop it.  What she needs to do is learn how to speak from her friend Bill O'Reilly....stick to the facts but be passionate about the opinions you have because of those facts.  Be focussed.  Most of all...be RIGHT!  Say what you mean and mean what you say....and always check your sources.  It's not enough to be right....you need to prove it.  Also, the point of her book is well taken.  Often, you SHOULDN'T talk to liberals because they are dishonest in how they debate things (tough to win an argument any way else when you are dead wrong).  If you want to, the first thing you must do, before you even start to debate anything is FORCE them to be honest.  And the best way to do that is to display extreme examples of that yourself....mirror Bill O'Reilly and you will win every time.	2005-04-23
US	52498394	RE96TJSHCJT2G	0609606131	937960394	Stop Teaching Our Kids to Kill : A Call to Action Against TV, Movie and Video Game Violence	Books	4	9	24	N	N	Great book.....misses the point entirely	First, let me say that this book is written by an EXPERT on violence and killing, particularly related to warfare.  That's not obvious if this is the only book of his that you have read.  There have been several negative reviews by people who don't want to believe this is the effect (an INTENDED effect in my opinion) of violence in all forms of popular media.  Guess what?  You guys don't know jack about the topic but the author most definitely does.  You should be more concerned about the personal effect on yourselves of what the author is talking about than doing dishonest mental gymnastics in an attempt to deny the obvious. LISTEN TO HIM! <br /> <br />However, I believe the author misses two important salient points about this.  The first is this is a VERY misguided, INTENDED effect done as part of a protracted campaign to purposefully make people in westernized cultures more violent and then try to control this violence through guilt and various PC attitudes, philosophies and beliefs.  Why are the powers that be doing this?  Because, more and more, there is turning out to be serious problems in the world that require warfare to solve.  In other words, we have several groups of intensely evil people rising en masse in several parts of the world and the movers and shakers in the world understand that the only way to solve this situation is to, ummm....kill them.  So, they've been manipulating our culture to make it far easier for \\"us\\" to do the completely unnatural but probably necessary task of killing \\"them\\".  But, they don't want the drawbacks of large numbers of psychopaths in society, so they send a mixed message.  Guess what?  It's not working.  Violence is on the rise and huge chunks of society feel it is inappropriate to use violence for any reason, including defending yourself from people who want you dead.  Insanity. <br /> <br />Which leads to the second salient point the author missed.  People are not passive consumers of culture.  People selectively accept or reject attitudes, philosophies and beliefs.  The ONLY reason the violence in media has any effect at all is that people accept it.  More than that, they GLORIFY it.  And THAT is what is causing the problem.  That's what makes thing like Insane Clown Posse, a social problem, instead of a bunch of jerks that will likely get their asses kicked, one day by outraged parents.  It's the tolerance, then the acceptance and lastly, the vigorous pursuit of this crap, that is the problem.  People need to pull their heads out of their asses and start making their selections based on wisdom, instead of whimsy and screwed-upness.  Why is this important?  Because, the card you can remove from this house of cards that will cause it to come tumbling down isn't to force these media a-holes to stop.  It's to simply reject, personally, what they are selling.  Are you pissed about what these guys are trying to do to yourselves and your children?  Don't get mad.  Instead, throw out your TV.  Do NOT allow violent movies, video games, music (especially hip-hop....no redeeming value whatsoever) etc. anywhere near you or yours.  Throw them away and encourage others to do the same. <br /> <br />More.  Teach your children the way of warriorship, ethical violence and physical discipline.  Train them in the martial arts.  Train them how to use guns responsibly.  Reject ridiculous manipulation by both PC liberal, leftest wackos AND rightwing religious loonies.  FORCE the culture to become one of warriors, not neurotic psychopathic killers.....one family at a time.	2005-04-15
US	52498394	R3IVR29TP0WUKY	0441102670	337219306	Chapterhouse: Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 6)	Books	1	18	53	N	N	Morbid and depressing	Man.  What the hell was going on in Herbert's head before he croaked?  I'm a big fan of the Dune series (despite Herbert's tendency to covertly glorify islamofascism), but this final volume was HORRIBLE.  Not only was it boring, tedious and, quite frankly, poorly written, but none of the protagonists had any shred of decency or redeeming qualities whatsoever.  That's not necessarily a bad thing, but Herbert holds these characters up as if they were paragons of virtue.....as if this type of person was the logical and appropriate evolution of the human species.  In a word...ick.  Toward the end of the book, I started hoping that humanity (his version of humanity) would be wiped out by some cataclysm.  Herbert's final book dehumanizes people to the point where life isn't worth living.  The whole book goes out of its way to portray wickedness and inhumanity as the way of the superior person, ignoring any attempt to be interesting, entertaining, or even have a plot that makes sense. <br /> <br />F-	2005-04-13
US	52498394	R2TJHQSZ83LLT0	1890626503	259447187	How to Beat the Democrats and Other Subversive Ideas	Books	5	4	17	N	N	Misses the point	This book, although excellent, misses the point entirely.  It gives a great description of WHAT the liberal fascists/socialist/democ-rats are doing.  But, that's not even close to being the important question.  The important question is not what but WHY.  Want to know the answer?  Just study what John Kerry has done during his life and ask yourself what pattern you see.  Another example is Jimmy Carter.  The same for Jane Fonda and Michael Moore.  These people are traitors.  As in they purposefully and repeatedly, take the side of extremely evil people, over that of the United States....to the point of interfering with our foriegn policy with both the specific intent and effect of allowing these evil people to do evil things.  It doesn't matter if they are communists, drug dealers/criminals, terrorists or genocidal maniacs.  Neither does it matter how heinous their crimes are.  They take their side over our side.  Scary stuff.  Mostly, this has been allowed to happen because of sheer ignorance of what these people are doing.  That is changing....big time.  This election shows that VERY clearly.  The dems were marginalized this election.  Based on what they have planned (Hillary Clinton....don't make me laugh), they are likely to be mariginalized for the next decade or more.  That's a good thing.  What you will see is the infiltration of these sick people, halted, particularly in the judiciary (short term) but also in the house and congress.  In short, the american people are kicking the bums out of office.  Finally, you will see the democrats expunge these [...] from their ranks (they really have no choice considering how big of a liability they have become).  Five years from now, people will look back on today as when it all started. Thank God for that.	2004-11-04
US	52498394	R237DKIIP6C7Y2	002073610X	606308944	The New Soldier	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Whoo boy....you absolutely MUST read this book	I gotta tell you.  If you want to understand where Kerry is coming from, read this book online (unless you have like $600 to fork over for a copy his spin doctors didn't manage to remove from circulation).  It is very enligtening.  Very damning in fact.  It's basically one big collection of distortions, now discredited accounts, and tons of outright lies, that Kerry was a big, BIG part of.  The reason Kerry works so hard to keep this book out of your hands is that much of what is in it has discovered to be outright lies, over the decades since it was published.  If you read through the lines, you clearly see how these people are part of a pattern of a dangerous and traitorous pro-communist agenda.  The reason this is so interesting is you see the same tactics from Kerry and the far-left....today.  During the Vietnam War, they used lie after lie after lie to demoralize our troops, turn public opinion against our leaders and sabotage our foriegn policy.  They succeeded (one can only guess at how many of our people died because of what they did).  And we still feel the ramifications of that today.  They are trying to do the EXACT SAME THING today, with our fight against islamic terrorism.  Be afraid.  Be very afraid that we have people like this in such powerful positions in our government.  Be even more afraid that a huge portion of our population is so nuts that they either don't know about this (or even, actively support this agenda).	2004-09-28
US	52498394	R1WE2M43WMCRPO	9963616062	814444273	Beyond Brawn: The Insider's Encyclopedia on How to Build Muscle & Might	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Probably the only book on weight lifting worth reading	This and McRoberts other book, \\"Weight Training Technique\\".  I gotta tell you, I've read alot of books on weight lifting, both published hard bound books and ebooks, including a number of famous body building bibles.  Those books were CRAP.  I was getting nowhere fast with those techniques for reasons McRoberts exposes in his book.  Those techniques were all developed by steroid users.  They absolutely will not work unless you take steroids as I can tell you from many years of direct experience.  Contrast that with McRobert's techniques which were developed for the 95-99% of the normal, non-steroid using population (he calls us hard-gainers).  Totally different training paradigm, particularly which exercises are important.  It works, and it works well. I'm finally getting somewhere with my training now that McRoberts has put me on the right path.  If you are a weight lifter, do yourself a favor and get this book.  Do yourself an even bigger favor and throw out all that other crap and DO WHAT MCROBERT'S TELLS YOU TO.  This is probably the best advice you will ever get from another weight lifter.  You will be extremely pleased with the results.	2004-09-11
US	52498394	R3FEY7NN2ZFWIA	9963616046	639190800	An Insider's Tell-All Handbook on Weight-training Technique	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Probably the most important weight lifting book	This and McRobert's other book, \\"Beyond Brawn\\" are the only two books you should pay any attention to for instructions on how to lift.  This book is extremely important.  It tells you in painstaking detail, the correct form to use with all of the important exercises you should be doing (ie, these are the only exercises you should even consider doing).  Want to know why?  Read \\"Beyond Brawn\\".  The most important part of weight lifting is lifting correctly.  You will get so much more results from lifting correctly with the correct amount of weight (ie the amount of weight you can handle and still maintain form) than the 99% of people who don't do it correctly.  All you will get from lifting without correct technique is injured.  Do yourself a favor and get this book.  Study this book.  Do your exercises correctly.  Get the other book, \\"Beyond Brawn\\" and learn what works (you will probably be surprised) from what the 99% of people in the gym are using....that, unfortunately, doesn't work (unless they are taking steroids that is).	2004-09-11
US	52498394	R2UV500U52VUT1	0970058705	386495443	The Pimp Game: Instructional Guide	Books	1	36	56	N	Y	Pathetic	Narcissitic rambling by someone who never was anybody important, and did alot of sick things trying obtain a shred of power over life....and never did.  Only people even sicker and weaker than him, fall for this crap.  I have a simple question that will illuminate how big a loser this guy is.  Who, in the history of the world, ever built anything lasting using a model of exploitation and enslavement?  Nobody.  That's who.  All those who tried, are dust.  Contrast that with people who used the paradigm of love, virtue, and service to humanity.  They are the ones who shaped the world and their works are the only ones that endure.  And only people who follow that path today, have power.  Everywhere you see people who follow the pimp/ho strategy, you see nothing but powerlessness, suffering and loss.  I mean, do you know anyone, ANYONE at all that follows this way of life and has power, or is even a man?  Try it for yourself and see just how messed up and powerless you become.  Of course, you should know better than to take advice from crack addicts and guys who've spent half their lives in prison being raped by one man after another (ooooohhhh, power).  I don't know whether to laugh or cry.	2004-04-07
US	52498394	RTK0KBTZ6SH8P	0962067164	941768938	Body Language Secrets: A Guide During Courtship & Dating	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Best first book on body language	Oddly enough, Steele has written the only decent book on basic interpretation of body language I have come across.  It's very thorough and useful.  You will be able to read it and immediately put this beneficial knowledge to use.  One thing he doesn't mention, is the REASON why this knowledge is so important.....the 1% rule.  The 1% rule is just the knowledge that, at any given time, 1% of women are attracted enough to sleep with you, if you approach them in a reasonable manner.  About 10% of women will develop a relationship with you, and then sleep with you, given enough effort and appropriate behavior.  Everyone else, ranges from indifferent to contemptuous to outright hostile.  It is EXTREMELY important to be able to tell the difference.  This book will give you that ability to tell the difference.  Picking the right woman is the most powerful technique, that gives you the most bang for your buck (pun intended).  It's well worth the time of EVERY man to learn.  This book, along with &quot;The System&quot; by Roy Valentine and &quot;Male Body Language That Attracts Women&quot; by Tony Wood will teach you everything you need to know about body language and women.....what to look for, and what to do yourself.	2004-03-30
US	52498394	R26QBJ5ZDIP6ZB	0971907609	527331467	How to Talk to Women	Books	3	35	39	N	N	Mediocre	Unlike their other book, this book is actually worth reading (although there are easily a dozen other books I would recommend before this one) for basic information on how to strike up conversations with women.  Unfortunately, Louis and Copeland are pretty much the stereotypical AFC's (Average Frustrated Chumps) and their techniques reflect that.  They don't understand the insane mindset of women, their behavior or what is necessary to get what you want from them without becoming a victim of some of their more obnoxious problem behavior.  They certainly don't understand the 1% rule and the dramatic implications this has for ANY methods you use to relate to women.  However, this book does offer some insight into the fine art of actually starting a conversation with a woman.  But, if you don't know how to choose the right woman, or worse, you don't know what to do after the first 30 seconds covered by this book.....if you don't know how to foster attraction and also give women a socially appropriate excuse to spend time with you......this will be nothing short of an exercise in repeated rejection and failure.  Want a better outcome?  Check out the works of David DeAngelo, R Don Steele, Tony Wood, Roy Valentine and John Fate.	2004-03-30
US	52498394	R2LC4XRP2NR4XW	0972918701	219343210	How to Get Laid Today! The System	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Best book on the subject to date	I must say this is the best book currently available on the topic of meeting women today.  Unlike other books that are mostly vague, uninformed nonsense, The System is direct, specific knowledge on what works.  You'll be able to read the book, head to the local mall (I've done this) and immediately be able to test parts of The System, in a non-threatening way.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.  It's the real deal.	2003-10-27
US	52498394	R10HEFHQJZGCZ9	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best novels of all time	Ender's Game is one of the great masterpieces of science fiction....original, exciting, and most of all provocative.  All great novels talk about the human condition, in one way or another.  The best ones, describe themes that almost all people are unaware of, until someone writes a great work about them....then they explode into the awareness with great emotion and with great force. Ender's Game is one of these.<br />Read it and see.	2003-07-10
US	52498394	R12G9MAOAP8VFT	1567180604	83119201	Teachings of a Grand Master: A Dialogue on Martial Arts and Spirituality	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The best martial arts book ever written in english	This is probably the best book ever written in english on the martial arts.  The author describes in detail several very advanced techniques, particularly techniques of meditation.  He speaks with authority on a number of important spiritual issues and his words have a very strong ring of truth.  The test of anyone who speaks on spiritual issues is whether or not they know correct techniques.  Behrens passes that test and all the techniques he describes, do exactly what he says they do.  Anyone who wants to can experience this for themselves.<br />I highly recommend this book for just about everyone.	2003-05-02
US	52498394	R1JHDMUCXM037E	1567180590	582395420	The Lost Scrolls of King Solomon	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Frightening	This book is probably the most frightening I have ever read because it seems to me that it isn't a work of fiction at all!  The author is the real deal as far as martial arts goes.  This is extremely obvious to anyone who knows anything at all about martial arts and reads his other book.  Also, several of his students still teach.  At least one that I know of has a web page with avi clips on it.  The technique displayed is VERY advanced.  The meditation techniques in this book, do exactly what he says they do and lend authority to everything else he has written. I, for one, am in the habit of believing those that know correct technique and take those that don't with a grain of salt.  That is the real test of anyone that would write anything about spiritual issues.  Do they know correct technique that is immediately effective and becomes more effective the more you use them?  This author meets that criteria.  I have experienced this for myself.  But don't take my word for it.  Try it and see for yourself.	2003-05-02
US	52498394	RQEQNGR3XK7O8	055326981X	408108623	The Practice Effect (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Great book...terrible ending	I really liked this book alot.  The plot was original and the human themes were compelling...heroism, adventure and achievement through understanding the laws of nature (in this case, those laws being a bit different, than usual).  I would have given this book 5 stars if the author had left off 10-15 pages before the end, where he cheapens and weakens his efforts by attempting to explain, \\"The Practice Effect\\" as an artificially induced phenomena.  Also, there is a lead in for a sequel that never happened...	2002-10-31
US	52498394	R6TJM72R2OCQ	0968899331	229529258	The Physics of Jesus Christ	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Powerful and enlightening.....not for the faint of heart	This is probably the most important book written on the subject of Universal Natural Law, for several generations.  This book is so dangerous to religeon that there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that the author would have been burned at the stake only 200 years ago...or even today, in some of the less civilized parts of the world.  The reason is the book gives away for free what religeous authorities would hoard and twist for their own power.  There are places in the book where the Divine obviously guided the author's hand.  Religious nuts of all flavors will get apoplexy reading this book.  Everyone else, should pick up a copy and spend a great deal of time contemplating the truths inside.	2002-10-16
US	52498394	R2CFNG8KFMDCPC	0553269828	224417303	Sundiver (The Uplift Saga, Book 1)	Books	5	0	5	N	Y	Brilliant and original	I really enjoyed this book.  The premise is interesting and original.  The plot is excellent and David Brin is a talented writer.  I liked it so much, I've decided to read the entire series.	2002-10-16
US	52498394	R2FLT9NH9HPTTT	0968899307	161140485	The Healing Hand	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Powerful technique	It's beyond my meager ability to comment on this book.  All I can say is that it is well worth reading and practicing the simple, yet extremely powerful technique contained inside.	2002-10-16
US	52498394	R255JMVUP0C5TB	0786927461	415392370	Elminster in Hell (Forgotten Realms: The Elminster Series, Book 4)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Pathetic	Sadly, I've watched this author's work get worse and worse with time.  This book should have been great.  It's a great idea with a great story leading up to it from the work of other authors (ie Return of the Archwizards 1 and 2)....but it was horrible.  Nothing but a bunch of unrelated plot snippets from myriad other books thinly strung together in a most contrived and poorly written manner.  I forced myself through this book thinking it must get better....but it didn't.  It makes me wonder if some 2-bit college hack threw something together at the last minute and they slapped Greenwood's name on it.  This author needs to get it together and show proper respect for this venerable character.	2002-10-03
US	52498394	R2TO5G71QRVN24	0786927720	871727540	Sea of Swords: Paths of Darkness	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Salvatore's best work	This book is worth reading but nowhere near the quality of Salvatore's prior work.  The plot had a few twists beyond Drizzt and friends kill a bunch of stuff but isn't particularly great.  The focus of this book was development of the Wulfgar character but he comes off as whiney and more than a bit of an ass. He makes some life mistakes that mirror issues real men face (a great opportunity to let the reader identify with this character) but his resolution to his problems are political correct foolishness to the max. I feel he has ruined this particular character forever. Also, his portrayel of the relationship between Drizzt and Cattie-Brie is weak and immature.  He can do better....alot better	2002-10-03
US	52498394	R5FAL8LKV4RRZ	0135296374	585711917	Conversational Power: The Key to Success with People	Books	5	31	38	N	N	One of the best books on how to be a true leader.	This book is extremely powerful, down to earth and pragmatic.  In no uncertain terms, it clearly and concisely lays out exactly what to do and how to act in personal and business relationships to increase ones power,  influence, prestige and popularity.  Don't be misled by the language of the  books title and other titles by this author.  This isn't a book on how to  gain power by being a backstabbing, dishonerable little person.  Instead,  it describes how to lay the foundations of true power by becoming  indispensable to other people and meeting the basic motivating needs that  drive us all.  If you work in ANY managing capacity at all, you NEED this  book.  As an added benefit, these techniques can be used to dramatically  improve the quality and quantity of your personal realtionships and family  life.  One of the best books I have ever read.	1999-08-31
