US	52498644	R2RQXL3672C85O	0312316836	137536604	The Awakening: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Urban Princess Warrior Returns	The Awakening is the second installment of the Vampire Huntress saga authored by L. A. Banks. I enjoyed Minion, but I LOVED The Awakening. The battle between good &amp; evil, laced with the deadly romantic attraction between Neteru and Master Vampire was intoxicating. <br />Damali, Neteru, is coming into her own. Her birthday is nearing and so is her vulnerability to the master vampires stalking the Earth. Every demonic creature imaginable is aware of this historical event, but only the vampires have the ability to use it to their evil advantage.<br />Carlos and Damali have always shared a bond, an attraction. Carlos always felt the need to protect Damali...kind of like her guardians. But when opportunity presents itself, can the softhearted drug lord resist. Carlos gets caught up in something that even his arrogant street-wise character can't reverse. The Vampires approach Carlos with a lucrative offer. His decision and actions thereafter can shift the balance between good and evil.<br />The author delivered constant action, mental stimulation, and tweaked every human sense available. I'm twitching in anticipation for the next book. I sat in awe as I read. I'm a big vampire fan, and the urban spin that Banks weaves into this series mesmerizes me. I wish it were a weekly sitcom. When you pick The Awakening up to read, siphon off enough time to complete it because once you pick it up, you won't put it back down until . . .	2004-02-22
US	52498644	R1PPJ1KY70ZS39	0312301545	880462202	One Day I Saw a Black King: A Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Will the Black King find happiness?	One Day I Saw A Black King is a wonderful story about how love and time softened two battered hearts. John King and Connie Rodgers share similar history. They were both abandoned and learned through trial and error how to survive. John lives by running from town to town extinguishing any ties he made while there. Connie runs from man to man leaving a piece of herself with each one. Now these two are slowing down. They know how to survive, but not how to live. Being with one another showed them that they do actually want some stability and maybe even love in their lives; however, for them to move forward, they must confront their pasts and deal with the pains that catapulted their flights and trauma.<br />J.D. Mason takes her time and unfolds this story. She sagaciously threads cadence, characters, and plot together and creates a searing tale of repentance, deliverance, and acceptance. I was mesmerized from the first page. The characters and story lingered in my mind long after I finished reading the book. You've got to read this book. You'll love it.	2003-10-05
US	52498644	R1SO0R0CHD3BE3	157566917X	533770852	True Lies	Books	5	7	7	N	N	That Never Ending Connection	Ever experienced the qualm of dating a person with kid(s)? Wrestled with weather or not you wanted to deal with that drama? If you haven't, you know someone who has. True Lies is an in depth voyage into the difficulty of getting involved with and loving a man who has a child, a permanent rope binding him to another woman. Margaret Johnson-Hodge opens that damn of water that often drowns the outside woman. She explores the terror of stepping into a ready-made family and the turmoil of sharing your man not just with his child, but also with his child's mother. <br />The True Lies cast of characters includes Rick, the naive, well meaning father; Gina, the young, belligerent mother; and Kanisha, the cute daughter. This cobbled together Tonka toy family is weakly built on dependence, and barely surviving on lopsided love. Enter Gina, a demure, sophisticated young woman with style and aplomb...and you've got a recipe for chronic chaos and willful war. <br />Johnson-Hodge's supple writing and colorful cadence buries us in the characters' explosive emotions and toxic relationships. She weaves a story of growth, trust, love, and disappointment. True Lies, like her other stories, is thought provoking, and mirrors the candid complications we experience in some of our own relationships.	2003-02-07
US	52498644	R2L6QNZBQ41H18	0312300506	197096249	I Know Who Holds Tomorrow: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hopefully tomorrow is better than today�	In one stoic night, Madison Reed looses her husband, finds out that he had an affair, and is left with proof of the affair....a nine-month little girl named Manda. Consequently, on the same night, little Manda looses both her parents, orphaned. <br />Zachary is every woman's' dream...A virile man of his word, chivalrous, strong, protective, caring, and confident. He made a promise regarding Manda that he MUST see through. Madison and Zachary are thrown together, made to depend on one another and cooperate to triumph through tumultuous situations. Consequently, just when the ominous clouds are moving scandalous secrets threaten to crumble the foundation these two strong characters built.<br />Francis Ray's writing made my heartache. I wanted to reach out and comfort Madison; to remove her from the levels of grief that were stacking on top of her. In less than 50 pages, Francis established the problem, painted the setting, and sucked me into the poignant plot. Such passion, raw emotions, and unbridled needs.<br />The sensuality...erotic passion gave me shivers. Ray eloquently writes tasteful love scenes that make you squirm. Tender scenes that are more mental and emotional than physical. Shooting electric currents of desire, she deftly builds tension and anticipation between multiple characters and in various situations.<br />Ray wrote so sensually that I closed my eyes and could feel the depth of love and contentment. I Know Who Holds Tomorrow illustrates over and over the importance of  love, honesty, and trust in any type of relationship.	2002-06-12
US	52498644	R2LKUYSTCM4W1V	0525946411	607888092	Love Don't Live Here Anymore	Books	3	2	2	N	N	What's Love Got to do with It?	Love Don't Live Here Anymore is a story of the perfunctory demise of a three year marriage between Mikki and Randy... the typical successful, professionally driven products of baby boomers. Told in first person narrative through alternating chapters that are appropriately titled He/She, the story deals more with the internal, emotional battle and struggle to make sense of things, rather than how to solve the myriad of issues that arise throughout the story. As the marriage spirals downward, each partner tussles with conflicting emotions, illicit needs, and steady guilt. The plot and story line were phenomenal. It was the delivery that left a lot to be desired. <br />The interspersed psychology of marital problems was tossed in the story along with threads of dialogue that failed to engage me. Like disobedient children on punishment, we were left out of intimate interactions between key characters. We didn't get to experience the characters' actions; instead, we were told most things. The story would have a more sincere impact with more meaningful dialogue. <br />The outstanding plot suffered because of the underdeveloped story, and extremely static, one-dimensional characters. The dialogue and character interaction was limited and timid, preventing me from honestly getting involved in the story. I never really developed a reader/character connection. I felt very detached from the story and the characters. <br />I finished reading the story; enamoured with the premise, yet feeling as if I missed something. Nevertheless, it is an enjoyable story with real-life marital issues and obstacles.	2002-05-20
US	52498644	R1DMWDHAM37PPU	0375758097	795325062	Meant to Be: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An Inspiring Journey into Womanhood....	Meant to Be is a young girl's journey into womanhood. Jan deals with parents that are sometimes as cold as ice, with secrets so hot they could melt the sun. A spirit spills the story through loquacious narrative chronicling Jan's journey through adolescence, into womanhood, through college, during relationships, and into loss. Invariably she learns keen awareness, acceptance, and forgiveness.<br />I had a distinct appreciation for the rhythm of the story, which delved in and out of the characters' thoughts, spinning perspectives and providing lucid details through Jan's distorted puberty. The women grazing in and out of Jan's peripherals add variety, color, and perspective to the story. <br />Ms. Coburn is as lyrical as they come. Smooth, wise words slip in and out of the pages branding location, setting, and characters in your thoughts. In Meant to Be, you'll read with your ears as well as with your eyes. The words are so succulent and familiar that if you read too fast, you'll miss the clever mixtures of wisdom and sarcasm.<br />The story is engaging. The writing is mesmerizing. I only have one complaint. I abhor lengthy narrative, which reminds me of boring college lectures where you are not an active participant. Narrative is the medium through which this story is told. Consequently, had the author spun the tale without this particular narrative, the story would adopt a totally different meaning. Eventually I learned to tolerate the verbose voice leading me through each scene and thought. <br />Take your time reading this or the loud narrative will overwhelm you. This is not a speed read. Pace yourself in order to really appreciate the depth of the message, the melody of the words, and the spirit of the story.	2002-04-23
US	52498644	R3258G5JA4YUR6	1575669196	975549248	When Twilight Comes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More, More, More....	Set in tranquil Woodmore, North Carolina, When Twighlight Comes is about the affluent Hairston family who owns The Woodmore Times newspaper. Refreshing and resplendent this full story about familial crisis and family bonds is unique, powerful, and colorful. Issues of insecurity, jealousy, inferiority, and competition skate through the pages.<br />The Matriarch of the family, Marge Harriston, lives and breaths the newspaper, &quot;one of her genuine sources of pleasure&quot;. You can imagine her heartbreak when her doctor informs her that she is ill. Marge toils, but decides that one of her children must  take on the responsibility of running the family owned newspaper; otherwise, she will sell it. Marge's ultimatum and final decision sparks ruffles of instability in a couple of her children.<br />Cassie, the uppity oldest daughter oscillates between aplomb and self-anathema. Grappling with problems in her marriage, and aspirations in her career, Cassie is unprepared and thrown by her mother's proclamation.<br />Drogan, the middle child, and only son is dapper, charming, and loquacious. His marriage to his tepid wife Iomogene is fragile. He was depending on an inheritance via the newspaper for retirement. Marge's decision thwarts his plans, affecting his and Iomogene's carefree and flambouyant lifestyle. <br />Sharon, the youngest daughter, is at the prime of her career. Years of research and an extra teaching load leave her eagerly waiting to hear if she made Dean of the School of Social Work at the local University. Her mother's news frightens and worries her, leaving Sharon dealing with the deterioration of one of the most important relationships in her life. With all that she definitely doesn't need a new man in her life...or does she?<br />The characters are vibrant and defined, telling you the story. Their multi-dimensional presence gives the story depth and animation. Gwynne's cadence is quip and to the point. She doesn't waste paper giving us rambling detailsand tiresome descriptions; instead, she paints pictures using her words as a camera. The witty dialogue and engaging story keeps you turning pages, while melodic words provide a vivid setting. Grab the book and see if one decision can tear a family apart or bring them closer together.	2002-04-09
US	52498644	R2NDEBQ5323ZA6	0312272995	634013686	Rhythms: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Breathtaking!!!	Rhythms is a link of life lessons, a placid picture of how secrets & pride can strip life from you no matter how innocent or uncontrollable the circumstances. Expressed with confidence, aplomb, and extreme depth, Donna Hill escorts us timelessly through three women's lives...three generations of living and learning, three different dynamics of coping. <br />The power, promise, and lure of ubiquitous love runs untimely through Rhythms. The crippling euphoria of true love is a catapult unleashing a wind storm of deceit, disappointment, disparity, and decadence that spans through three generations of lovely women not in control of their destiny. This curse begins with Cora in Book I, and plants a seed of discord that festers and explodes in her offspring. Blending opulent shades of history, Hill moves from slavery to parched freedom. <br />The transition from Book I to Book II examines the proclivity and preposterous effects of life as a transparent, colorless woman with a colorful soul and blemished heritage. Hill provides a spectacular, less traveled perspective through Emma in Book II. The descriptions of Rudell, white & black, are relentless, making you blink to ensure clarity. Emma's candor, determination, and wrath stir controversy, and brew conflict. Book III is about innocence and freedom, promoting the peace one receives by accepting themselves; unashamed.<BR> <BR>Painting pictures and embracing history with syllables of spirited lyrics, Hill fosters courage and romance, enveloping soulful love that evaporates from your pores and dances in the wind. You are transported into situations and perils seemingly insurmountable to our 20th century imaginations. You are privy to three chronicles of parallel love, expressed through diverse relationships and pungent schemes. Hill flows effortlessly from one scene to another, summing up necessities swiftly, but deftly providing decadent details through her mellodious cadence. <br />Rhythms was a lesson in rich fiction writing. Spirals of sound, ripples of racing emotions, and staggering sensations of style resonated through out this novel. Hills words are lyrical, spontaneous, and stinging. She takes her time, not rushing the stream of silence you'll experience during the rise and fall of this story. Rhythms reminded me of a slow, sultry jazz tune, a spry dance of jubilance through a stream of sunlight. <br />I guarantee you'll enjoy this novel....	2002-02-01
US	52498644	R3DOO3VT3CTUHK	0375757775	638709937	Black Coffee (Strivers Row)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Funny, engaging, and Unique	Do you have a girlfriend that makes you double over with laughter? One who can make a simple statement about the weather funny? Well if you don't, allow Sandrella Coffee to become your witty friend for a while. Sandrella Coffee is the main character in Black Coffee, along with Romulus Caesar.  Sandrella has a percolating wit, along with a snappy, earthy, and matter of fact voice. She proudly exposes her failures, accomplishments, dreams, fears, and emotions to us like we are her confident friends. She speaks honestly and from the heart. She's confident in who she is, what she can and cannot do, and she is not ashamed to tell you about the mistakes she's made.<br />In her debut novel, Tracy Price-Thompson has introduced characters that are real and expound. She engages you in the main plot of this story by providing in depth characters that spring off of the pages into your presence. Her hilarious, serious, and heart felt accounts of Sandrella &amp; Romulus' life will make you smile, laugh, cuss, and cheer. This is not just a book for women; men can enjoy and relate to this story as well.<br />Black Coffee is a quick, funny, soaring read about all types of love....relationship love, family love, fiendship love, sibling love...strong love. It delves into the sacrifices that one makes for love; and displays the prolific emotions of people experiencing love. Black Coffee touches on how one must do what they have to do because of morals, and past lessons.	2002-01-09
US	52498644	R17J5LG7AJKK4T	096555452X	374716771	No More Lovemaking	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Intriguing Plot + Crazy Characters = Drama, Drama, Drama	No More LoveMaking is Caulton's sophomore novel, where every relationship is contaminated with lies, envy, mistrust, deceit, and unrequited love. The novel has situations that keep you turning each page, anticipating the next calamity. The characters are amazing, yet believable, audacious, yet precocious.<br />We follow DeDe through her beguiling courtship with Stephan, her dubious friendship with Dionne, and her strained relationship with her siblings. The writing propels you along with lurid situations and memorable characters. Drama drips from each chapter.<br />Consequently, the novel drops off towards the end. We are built up with an extremely toxic situation, only to be left hanging, bewildered and incomplete. Nevertheless, No More LoveMaking has a unique plot surrounded by familiar subplots. I would recommend reading this novel. It is extremely entertaining.  <br />I would give the novel 3.5 stars, but that's not an option. 3 Stars does not indicate that this is a poorly written novel. My pet peeve is questionable endings, but the rest of the novel is colorful and exciting. EXCELLENT!	2002-01-08
US	52498644	R1T45OGJAWCPY3	0345445961	706409890	Bittersweet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Page Turning Novel, that I didn't want to end.....	The Matthews brothers, Victor, Nathan, and Clifford stay on my mind, although I've finished the novel. I am still laughing at Victor, worried about Clifford, and a tad disgusted with Nathan. Bittersweet is a delectable novel that exposes the thoughts, pain, and weariness of a naïve man that lost control of his marriage and heart, an avarice man that battles thoughts of lust, and an angry man that is just fed up with it all, but extinguishes those negative flames by using his experiences to help another. Bittersweet reminds us that appearances are deceiving, family is paramount, life is not fair, and that everyone, even the deity, is human.<br />This fluid, plot driven novel kept me quickly flipping pages. Something was always occurring and grabbing my interest. I mostly enjoyed the multiple stimulating plots that were extremely exciting and realistic, along with the genuine characters and penchant subject matters.<br />The only thing that bothered me about the novel was that because it was plot driven, the characterization suffered slightly. I had a problem with most of the blue-collar characters speaking slang, and jagged English namely one of the brothers. It was very questionable. I was puzzled because Victor, Nathan, and Clifford, were born to the same parents, grew up in the same house, and their mother was an educator...yet, one of these boys chronically punctured the English language, like substituting &quot;fambly&quot; for family. Then I noticed that all the characters leading less than desirable lives or having blue-collar jobs spoke incorrect grammar and over exhausted slang. Nevertheless, Johnson redeemed himself because this least plausible brother was the most knowledgeable, insightful, and compassionate. <br />Bittersweet is engaging and intense. The intermingling perils will entertain you, and elicit fluctuating emotions. I'm looking forward to a sequel, to check up on the Matthews brothers. These fellows are something else. Don't miss out....you want to check these brothers out.	2002-01-08
US	52498644	R3JJ0A2XZI5M1Q	0312278551	326641259	Leaving Disneyland: A Novel	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Captivating Story	Leaving Disneyland chronicles the psychological binge that Doc Kane, the edgy protagonist of the story, endures. Doc's existence is saturated by a foreboding cloud the instant his eyes land on his daughter's battered face. A wing of complexity, confusion, and captivating energy, Doc faces betrayal, an unsettled past, and a psyche battle within. This story of repentance, restitution, and regret occurs in two parts, distinguishing internal and external ghosts that Doc experiences, and successfully testing the extremely thin line between rationale and insanity. <br />Aside from the intoxicating story, I most enjoyed Alexander Parson's writing style. His subtle metaphors and similes are smooth and rich. The lyrical cadence of his words blur the lewd setting of the novel, encouraging us to focus on the bewildered character's thoughts, movements, progressions, and regressions. He institutes words that birth vivid visions from his loaded descriptions. Using unique sentence structure, Parson provides vibrant insight into Doc's errant thoughts as he faces his demons. <br />He marries this insurmountable story with ripe words and emerges with acute, thought provoking descriptions that beckon you to process and understand William 'Doc' Kane. Humor is sprinkled within acerbic situations keeping the readers attentive to the protagonist. <br />I was confused and a tad frustrated with the ending of the novel. It left too much for me to decipher with my limited knowledge of this subject. Nevertheless, Leaving Disneyland is a splendid obscurity of right and wrong, reality and sanity that gives us a brief existence inside the walls of a prison. Parson provides an interesting perspective through Doc Kane's character, but there is no slack in the stealth persuasion to understand the criminal. The story is real, it's intriguing, and enormously thought provoking.	2001-11-17
US	52498644	R3GBLVMAJPR75N	0312282907	521377979	The Sisters of Theta Phi Kappa: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I LOVED this novel	The Sisters of Theta Phi Kappa is a novel of mystery, romance, and intrigue. An impenetrable friendship birthed via the fictional Theta Phi Kappa Sorority is the glue of the story.  Shereen, Yolanda, Jessica, and Ellie are characters that jump off the page. Four very different women bonded in friendship. Jessica is vulnerable and mellifluous, her turmoil toxic. Yolanda is arduous, prideful, and often strong, her impervious demeanor shaken by some surprising secrets.  Ellie is dizzy and desperate, lacking direction and respect. Shereen is emotional and trustworthy with quiet strength. The resonating theme throughout the novel is friendship. The trials these women face are profound; however, their insurmountable friendship propels them to peace and resolution.<br />What I really enjoyed about this book is that there is no anemic narration....the characters are well developed. The pages are alive with these bright characters that are full of life; telling you their stories. Kayla writes with such endowing emotions. Each character tells you who they are, what they need, their fears, their secrets, and their imperfections. Sincerity drips from each sagaciously crafted character. I also enjoyed how Kayla Perrin expertly put into words the pain of a broken heart, the elation of marriage, the trepidation one feels in a new relationship, and the confusions in making decisions. <br />Not only did I feel a consortium of emotions, but I was also sitting on the edge of my seat in anticipation, and beating my brain trying to figure out the mystery. You will enjoy the story these characters have to tell.	2001-11-13
US	52498644	R37CW7FFDE0G6I	0759612528	623057262	10 Minutes Past Too Late	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Refreshing New Voice in Contemporary Fiction	10 Minutes Past Too Late dismantles the stereotypical roles of surreptitious men and mellifluous women in relationships, and escorts us into a rather unusual situation. The characters are colorful, vivid, and pivoting. They jump off the pages and blend the thin line of familiarity and imagination.<br />Lisa is implacable, spoiled, and brash...thoughtless, and more often than not selfish. She's living the auspicious life of a successful lawyer with a wonderful home and an opulent boyfriend brimming with undying affection for her. Everything is great...that is until a pundit, svelte new man swaggers into Lisa's life smothering her with his presence and charm, and threatening all the comfort she's become accustomed to. <br />What will this capricious, errant girl do when she's faced with multiple calamities that will totally change her life? Well..I'm surely not going to tell you...you'll have to get the book and read it yourself.<br />10 Minutes Past Too Late is an intoxicating story...a romance laced with mystery, action, and intrigue...that will keep you up way past bedtime trying to find out the outcome.	2001-10-24
US	52498644	R36WT7FD30HF23	0375506055	583064766	Hand-me-down Heartache: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hand-Me-Down more of this book	Using simple words, an intense plot, and a clever voice, TJ Butler dispels a compelling, honest story of a young woman battling with family secrets, relationships, and inner growth.<BR>What I like most about this novel is that there are no frills or thrills present, just an intoxicating story that heightens your interest with each chapter.<br />Nina recently graduated from college, relocated, and is attempting to find a position in her desired career. Hand-Me-Down Heartache sketches her efforts in making a life for herself after graduation. Nina's emotional journey in and out of herself is capricious. As readers, we are privy to points of views that Nina is clueless about. This encourages even more interest because we are dying to know how she will handle certain issues.<br />The characters are seemingly familiar, having personalities of denial and desperation that reside in someone that you know. Butler maintains a vivacious protagonist/antagonist reticulation by making some of the characters endearing, but errant, and others just plain mean and selfish...then she provides a balance by interspersing strong, acute characters that promote growth and aplomb in the weaker characters.<br />Butler intertwines an intoxicating innocence with stygian debacles. Her characters are fluid and colorful, full of candor and audacity. The story is fresh and speculative with a dash of coarse reality. Hand-Me-Down Heartache is not for the faint of heart. It's a deep, toxic story that you'll remember long after you've finished the novel.	2001-10-20
US	52498644	R1VWQ8SG2NF1LC	0375506055	583064766	Hand-me-down Heartache: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hand-Me-Down more of this book	Using simple words, an intense plot, and a clever voice, TJ Butler dispels a compelling, honest story of a young woman battling with family secrets, relationships, and inner growth.<BR>What I like most about this novel is that there are no frills or thrills present, just an intoxicating story that heightens your interest with each chapter.<br />Nina recently graduated from college, relocated, and is attempting to find a position in her desired career. Hand-Me-Down Heartache sketches her efforts in making a life for herself after graduation. Nina's emotional journey in and out of herself is capricious. As readers, we are privy to points of views that Nina is clueless about. This encourages even more interest because we are dying to know how she will handle certain issues.<br />The characters are seemingly familiar, having personalities of denial and desperation that reside in someone that you know. Butler maintains a vivacious protagonist/antagonist reticulation by making some of the characters endearing, but errant, and others just plain mean and selfish...then she provides a balance by interspersing strong, acute characters that promote growth and aplomb in the weaker characters.<br />Butler intertwines an intoxicating innocence with stygian debacles. Her characters are fluid and colorful, full of candor and audacity. The story is fresh and speculative with a dash of coarse reality. Hand-Me-Down Heartache is not for the faint of heart. It's a deep, toxic story that you'll remember long after you've finished the novel.	2001-10-20
US	52498644	R2A1G7KCS73TQL	0967866006	436480075	Kismet : A story of Love, Friendship, Obsession and Fate	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good debut novel	Kismet is a well-crafted novel full of drama and intrigue. The author saturates the novel with brash characters situated in Los Angeles. Dani, Andrew, Deera, Queenie, Tai, Jody, and Killa Munjaro will attach themselves to your thoughts and lead you through 'Kismet'. The ubiquitous perils are challenged by the characters' friendship. The girls' tight, sisterly friendship steers each one through tumultuous episodes of addiction, family calamities, relationship problems, and honesty.<br />At times stoic and lewd, Kismet unleashes sinister antagonists in human form. The lurid details will have you flipping pages well past your bedtime. Kismet has an eccentric storyline full of plot twists and turns. Laced with mystery and lavish lyrics, Kismet is a great debut novel.	2001-09-12
US	52498644	R1NNMKWF7ZERUJ	1575666960	604535976	Married Men	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hilarious w/much drama	An unpredictable mixture of humor, romance, and drama, Married Men is an icy yet realistic depiction of societies' fickle attitude toward marriage and fidelity. Full of melodrama, Married Men centers around four successful black men with a bond of friendship that spans some twenty-five years. Sassy, brash, and alluring are just a few adjectives that come to mind when describing the characters and situations in Married Men. <br />A myriad of hilarious mishaps and perils make this novel an easy, fast read that will keep you eagerly turning pages. We are privy to the men's perspective of fidelity, love, trust, and women. Carl Weber cleverly shows us how each man deals with the difficulties and rewards of marriage and fatherhood.<br />The novel is extremely fast paced, full of wit and anguish. At every page break there is drama on top of drama unfolding. Before these brazen brothers resolve one issue, another calamity erupts. The story is very well thought out and executed. The friendship between the four guys is extremely well developed and worthy of envy. Full of drama, trauma, and deceptions, Married Men is a whirlwind of vivid havoc, and you'll be right there like a fly on the wall.<br />For the length of time that it takes you to complete this novel, Jay, Kyle, Will, and Allen will become a part of your life. They'll say stupid things, and make dastardly mistakes, but when the book is closed, you'll be wishing that those blundering brothers were still around. You'll want to give them advice, steer them the right way, celebrate with them, and pat them on the back. Even after you've closed this novel, it'll be hard to get these four characters and their auspicious perils out of your mind.	2001-09-04
US	52498644	RTWLEM7RICZHG	0684841436	919136449	Child of God: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Her best work yet	The first line of the novel introduces the audacity of this spirited story of a rural family plagued with menacing deep family secrets and arduous dilemmas that leave an ominous cloud hanging over them. The Boltens teeter between aerious innocence and ignorant wickedness. Files unfolds their history of murder, incest, and deceit, expertly moving from past to present. Evil and sin run rampant through the pages interspersed through each character and successfully shaping the story.<br />Child of God is Files' best work yet. The blatant parallels of the novel to Shakespeare's Hamlet are ingenious. Files assembled a fleet of characters that are colorful, spirited, and unique. The characters are developed and delivered in their own entity where they project themselves into the unfolding of this lurid story. <br />This tragic story is full of capricious plots that will leave your mouth agape in disbelief, but will continuously grab your interest. This novel is very different from Files' previous novels; however, it shows acute intelligence and versatility in her writing. You will enjoy this story.	2001-08-23
US	52498644	R1HWJBKCJS1N45	1575668629	94759184	Renee And Jay	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hilarious and well written	Traveling home from work during a blistering Virginia snowstorm, Renee encounters an intriguing entity just as white as the snow....Jay.<br />Renee is a brazen around the way sister...confident and sassy, bossy and aloof. Jay is a soft spoken, naive, and all too willing to please Italian. What a combination! The eccentrics of these two characters collide, exploding into a hilarious romantic tale that is sure to entertain you.<br />The bright, candid characters, humorous words, and speedy story line make this novel an enjoyable delight. Mr. Murray did his homework and plunges head first into the wispy and frank mind of a strong, sometimes difficult, black women. Although the throngs of courtship swarm throughout the story, Renee and Jay isn't void of trouble in paradise. The young couple encounters a string of problems and characters that will keep you wanting to read more.	2001-08-23
US	52498644	R30JOE024B6AKE	0671040839	288426258	The Living Blood	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Super Sequel	Don't recoil from the cover. I know that it's a fright to view, but the story inside the cover is engaging, mind sweeping, mystical, and powerful. 'The Living Blood' picks up where 'My Soul to Keep' leaves off with Jessica Jacob-Wolde, her secretive husband, daring sister, and a whole tan drum of new characters.<br />The mystery surrounding Dewit is unveiled catapulting tremendous tailwinds of violence and mayhem. Struggling to save herself and her family, Jessica travels from Africa to Miami running for her life and attempting to preserve the lives of her loved ones the entire time. Evil lurks at every turn, and Jessica will have to seek the aid of those who once sought to kill her.<br />Like a creepy wind rousing your curtains through an open window, The Living Blood keeps you looking over your shoulder, shivering with anticipation, and shuttering in disbelief. Tananarive Due's lyrics are pompous and bright, painting a detailed picture that allows you to simply read and enjoy the tale without having to figure things out. Thus, this thriller leads you through paths and journeys from Africa to Florida that will have you holding your breath in anticipation of the next sinister prowler.<br />The imaginative world that Ms. Due has created teeters between terror and reality. She uses just enough reality to suck us into this pensive spiritual world and the necessary amount of imagination to keep us reading.	2001-06-06
US	52498644	R2F6BDIR3300XH	1930231067	5195491	Mistrustful	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Debut Novel	Mistrustful is a didactic coming of age story. The author opens a few windows of an enormous house giving us a glimpse of a young man entering manhood. We journey with him through qualms and the realistic and painful resolutions. Davis is in college...smart, well rounded, and untypically compassionate. He juggles classes, friendship, love, and placid perils like a pro until he gets involved in a situation that pulls his heart in two different directions.<br />Told with a clear voice, clever words, and sensuous settings, the author masterfully intertwines perilous situations that result in Davis learning important lessons and enduring tremendous growth. The story flows and is tastefully told. The characters are unique and stand out as individuals. The dilemmas that Davis faces are familiar, but somehow the author dispels a refreshing perspective...the male perspective.<br />Mistrustful is an indulging quick read that is entertaining and unpredictable.	2001-06-06
US	52498644	R2GBBVBS9NRZRO	0312202911	620382425	Far From the Tree	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Story	Far From the Tree is an emotionally charged story of family relationships and family secrets. Specifically, the authors explore the tumultuous relationships between mothers, daughters, and siblings.<br />DeBerry and Grant created unique, yet familiar characters that literally sucked me into this story. I enjoyed the consistent and sassy personalities of Della, Ronnie, and Celeste. The authors' description and word choice give the story music. The free flowing dialogue is quip and vivid. I can still recall snippets of conversations that made me laugh, cry, and gasp.<br />Far From the Tree is full of drama, unforgettable characters, and a speedy story line that will entertain you, yet encourage you to think about how you handle your own family perils. Enjoy!	2001-05-10
US	52498644	R1KHIQVBJUO455	0684873524	544986125	Resurrecting Mingus	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent Debut Novel	Resurrecting Mingus is an amalgamation of insight, delivery, and intense emotions. Never before have I read a novel that explored multiple sides of so many unchartered issues. Adams' candor is simply intoxicating and effulgent.<br />This novel oscillates between Mingus Browning and her family. The author conceptualizes the affect that divorce has on adults, the damages of surpressing desires, and the anguish that secrets and lies can cause. Now, one might say they've read novels with similar storylines. But, Jenoyne Adams wasn't the author. This author has a magnetic way of opening her characters' souls, exposing their fears, intentions, and inner demons. The story is not one sided at all. As readers, we receive all of the participants and affected parties' points of view.<br />Besides the explosive characters and stellar storyline, Resurrecting Mingus is also brisk and eloquent. It's a quick, yet engulfing read. Adams is extremely voluminous providing just the right amount of lucid descriptions and toxic lyrics.<br />This blistering novel will grab your attention and interest and hold it until your eyes reach the last page. Enjoy!	2001-03-02
US	52498644	R17MUSZUIK1H6Q	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	EXCELLENT! Traditional Star Wars Excitement and Imagination	&quot;Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter&quot; is a sagacious spin off the move Phantom Menace; however the novel takes place before the movie. Reaves delivers a delightful chase tale with the sinister Darth Maul as the hunter. The lyrics are enticing, eliciting macabre images of the surreptitious Sith against not only the Jedi, but other ubiquitous forces. Reaves grabs your imagination, your love for Star Wars, and your thirst for adventure, wraps it up into an engrossing tale, and delivers an audacious story that will have you turning pages into the wee hours of the night.<br />Reaves maintains the traditional Star Wars imaginative galaxy of mystique characters, menacing environments, and stimulating battles between good and evil. He introduces some new characters and expounds on familiar characters, but still manages to give us a capricious adventure. The story is not at all jagged; instead, the plot is tightly wound and intramural. The characters are lurid, colorful, and engrossing.<br />I'm hoping that Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter is the initial book, and that this spin off will evolve into a collection of ominous tales that will keep all of us Star Wars junkies occupied and entertained.	2001-02-21
US	52498644	R6YQUTCM0PKHN	0312975880	939021136	Welcome to Leo's	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I Couldn't Put It Down...	These ladies are LETHAL!! Welcome to Leo's is a tastefully crafted ensemble of amorous, sensual, and eloquent stories about love, surrender, trust, and understanding...all centrally located at the fictitious supper club, Leo's, in our Nation's Capital.<br />This esoteric compilation fuses the writing talents of Rochelle Alers, Donna Hill, Brenda Jackson, &amp; Francis Ray, who each present a story that rapturously embraces a common theme...finding love at Leo's. Each author's unique ability to create longing, sexual tension, euphoria, and passion makes 'Welcome to Leo's' a delightful read. The effulgent love stories intertwined with the artistic capability of these authors to verbally pluck emotions and visually elicit stimulating images of ardor, makes this chronicle of tales extremely difficult to put down, but very easy to finish.<br />My personal favorite was the short story `Main Agenda', which extended the satisfaction of success in a women's life to include love instead of excluding it. Make sure you allot enough time to read this book from cover to cover, because after you start reading it, you won't want to put it down.	2001-02-03
US	52498644	R3OP0BDVE5FINW	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	2	2	N	N	SPECTACULAR, and well worth the wait!!!	A Day Late and a Dollar Short is a hilarious, emotional, and breezy read. Terry successfully wrote the entire novel in first person, which is very difficult to do. The characters are intricately developed, colorful, and original...and Terry is the singular voice for them all, which is an outstanding accomplishment. The dialogue is snappy, quick, and exploding with  wit.  Each character is as sassy and witty as the last one. Every chapter presents some type of calamity that will have you doubled over laughing or shaking your head with any number of emotions.<br />The Price family represents so many types of families. Every family has its drama, and believe me, the Price family has enough drama if your family doesn't have any. The three sisters, the kids, and the husbands, plus the one brother, the dad, and the matriarch, Viola all have issues that will have you laughing, contemplating, fussing, and crying. The multitude of issues that Terry addresses in this novel might make you understand your siblings more, appreciate your parents more, or realize something about yourself. I haven't read another novel yet, that touches on so many potent perils and ascribes so many different angles and solutions, using such a brazen voice.<br />There were three things that really impressed me in this novel: Terry's masterful, flawless use of first person for every single unique character; the piercing dialogue and explosive interaction of the characters; and third was this enlightening story of a family that kept me relentlessly turning pages. I could go on for days and days with accolades for A Day Late and a Dollar Short, but I don't want to keep rambling. So, go buy this book (don't borrow it, buy your own), and enjoy it...I guarantee you'll love it.	2001-01-16
US	52498644	R340RXHKY8P7MK	0671028421	182174594	Breathing Room	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerfully refreshing	In 'Breathing Room', Patricia Elam brings an intoxicating new voice to contemporary fiction that is simplistically elegant. Her warm, earthy characters are animated, yet familiar, and simple, attaching themselves to your emotions throughout the entire novel. Her prose is lyrical, eliciting colorful images of ardor, nostalgia, and aplomb.<br />Breathing Room oscillates between the lives of Norma and Moxie, two very different women who have shared a bonded friendship since college. Both women face situations that drive them, deter them, and ultimately withdraw them from one another for various reasons. Patricia strips Norma and Moxie down to their bare essentials, exposing their deepest fears, desires, and issues to us...almost soliciting our assistance in some situations. Moxie is a single mother, raising a gorgeous teenager, and grappling with past demons and present prejudices. Norma is married, dealing with the adversity and rewards of motherhood, being a wife, and making a marriage work.<br />Breathing Room leads us on a journey through realistic qualms in friendship, marriage, and day to day living. Posing questions about morality, support, and conviction. This refreshing, poignant story will remain in your thoughts well after you finish the novel. Enjoy!	2001-01-06
US	52498644	R3GP9KDI7XXXBF	0688165133	644196078	Supreme Justice: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Supreme Mystery	You want suspense? You've picked up the right book. This novel is so masterfully crafted that you won't know what to expect from one chapter to the next. The Mystery Meister, Gary Hardwick includes numerous twists and turns, making you feel like you are on a winding race car course with nothing but adrenaline fuelling your path. <br />In Detroit Michigan, controversial Supreme Court Justice Farrell Douglas is murdered. Farrell's conservative views ousted him from his African American heritage. His own people believing him to be a sell out. Marshall Jackson is assigned to the case. Marshall is in a box with adversaries everywhere, CIA at one corner, FBI at another, and the US District Attorney constantly in his shadow. That's not all, add Marshall's estranged brother, tempermental best friend Danny, and demanding wife to the equation, and you've got mayhem. Tagged with the responsibility of litigating the biggest case of the decade, not to mention his job and life being on the line, and you've got an awesome protagonist in a thrilling novel.	2000-12-12
US	52498644	R38EUY0BBZ24FU	1929279000	826063861	Shadow Lover	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Action Packed	Reading Shadow Lover was like watching an exciting gothic action movie. HC Clark coats your mind with intrigue, murder, sex, love, and anxiety throughout the novel. This undaunted tale of anguish had me sitting on the edge of my seat during the entire read.<br />Ivan Carty is the narcissistic lunatic, crazed and brutal who wreaks havoc on anyone in his path. This deranged character is so thoroughly developed. Angelica is Ivan's beautiful timid wife who is ferociously plagued by Ivan's menacing mind and brutal hand. Consequently, Angelica has nine lives and someone or something is watching over her. Will Angelica escape from the cunning vigilance of her husband or the emotional hailstorms that penetrate her mind?<br />I loved how well Hope C. Clark developed the characters in Shadow Lover. The developed characters intermingled with the action packed storyline is what makes this novel such a good read. The characters' actions and dialogue coincide with who they are, so you won't question the validity of the bizarre occurrences. Hope's writing is diligent and detail oriented. Every detail is covered.<br />There is never a dull moment in this morbid, yet exciting tale. So set aside enough reading time, because once you start Shadow Lover, you won't dare put it down until your eyes glaze over the very last word. You'll worry about Angelica until you know that she's gone or saved.	2000-12-03
US	52498644	R37Z5MGFZ9QC1D	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You'll love these new characters....	Mixing a little mystery and drama, Blind Ambitions is a peek into the struggles, ambitions, lessons, and lives of Desi, Bettina, Sharon, Steve, &amp; Randall. They are all in Hollywood trying to make it..one way or the other. Their dilemmas are spicy, the solutions are steamy, and the overall outcome is...well, you'll just have to read the book to find out!<br />What I like most about Blind Ambitions is the colorful ensemble of characters. Lolita has a gift for creating spicy and unique characters that arouse our curiosity, tickle our funny bone, and lure us into their lives and battles.<br />Blind Ambitions has something that interests everyone. This clever novel shows that Lolita is a versatile author, whose writing spans multiple arenas. Lolita still maintains her 'in your face', 'tell it like it is' voice, but she just adds a different flavor to it.<br />Blind Ambitions is a fun and entertaining read with vivid situations, sassy language, colorful characters, and a stellar storyline.	2000-11-22
US	52498644	R2ZYJRTVUGI35Y	0966859189	771041530	Thunderland: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Excellent Twisted Thriller	Thunderland is a thrilling, twisted mystery with horrific ingredients that will make your hands tremble, your breath catch, and your heart hammer. As your mind races to keep pace with this magnetizing tale, you'll feel transformed into the terrifying pages of Thunderland.<br />A maniacal, sadistic creature has escaped from the sinister confines of the place where our nightmares occur. This evil essence taunts and horrifies the 12-year-old protagonist of the novel, Jason Brooks, threatening to devour all traces of the young boy's sanity.<br />With vivid words that elicit visual depictions of horror, and an edginess comparable to the most established horror/mystery authors, Brandon Massey paints a mystery of diabolical and calculating battles with a wicked, menacing entity that stalks Jason, his family, and his friends. Brandon seduces us with mischievous metaphors, graphic details, and a toxic storyline that will keep you magnetized until the last page.<br />Open Thunderland and enter the wrenched minds of these poignant characters maddened by grief, terror, and a seemingly unstoppable demented source of evilness.  CAUTION: Read Thunderland with the lights on, doors &amp; windows locked, and with someone in the room with you!!!!	2000-11-14
US	52498644	R2047S7I8G3ZKC	0967767903	77865080	Life is what you make it, darlin'	Books	2	1	1	N	N	I missed something	Life Is What You Make It Darlin is a didactic novel that addresses the struggles, sacrifices, and joys of a young married couple. The story is unique and fascinating. The words are lyrical, enticing your imagination. The descriptions are graceful, and the love scenes are tasteful and compassionate. The author uses adjectives that awaken and tantalize your senses.<br />However, the point of view and voice are often sporadic and ambiguous. Often I didn't know whether I was in the past or present, and what character was thinking or speaking. I'm not sure if the novel was meant to have a level of mystique, but what it ended up being was incomplete. Initially, the aura of mystery was compelling until I reached the end of the novel. The pages ended, the novel was finished, but the mystery still remained. One of the main characters, Bruce, has a secret that's been eating him up inside. I never got what the secret was...what the problem was. I went back through the novel to investigate, and concluded that the secret could have been any number of things because the author dropped hints on numerous problems.<br />If not for the ambiguity and the unfinished ending, this novel would have received four stars because it's a quick, compelling, and absorbing novel that tugs at your mind with each page.	2000-10-13
US	52498644	RF4I6J1W9ABB7	0451182766	927074768	Double Dead	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You must read this THRILLING MYSTERY	Double Dead is a compilation of squelching suspense, majestic mystery, and just a touch rising romance. Immediately, the unrelenting characters and profound dialogue seizes your attention and coats your imagination with intrigue. Gary masterfully authored an intoxicating story full of cunning twists and ferocious turns. The multifarious characters are a tasteful blend of allure, sass, rancor, invincibility, and mystique.<br />Set in dilapidated Detroit, a heinous murder occurs expounding the mystery and toxic deceit surrounding the political, religious, and criminal activities in Detroit. Jessie King, a sagacious district attorney for the city, is assigned to the case. Obsessed with `Justice for All' and plagued with the disjointed evidence, Jessie attempts to solve the murder himself. Discovering too much, Jessie gets saturated as he grapples to emerge unscathed from a wicked tale spin through the violent, decaying streets of Detroit. The sadistic characters and perilous situations that Jessie encounters along the way will captivate you. <br />Double Dead is so intense and spellbinding that your eyes will hungrily devour each page, in an attempt to digest this engrossing mystery that leaves you hungry for more.	2000-10-11
US	52498644	R1NY0V0L4C9R27	0967554675	503712582	The Hearts of Men	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Don't Miss Out	In a spirited voice full of positive energy, Travis Hunt infiltrates your mind with vivid, poignant characters laced with a soaring dialogue that  indulges your imagination and provokes your emotions. Travis' debut novel  delves into the secret crevices of three generations of black men's minds  exposing the flaming perils and boisterous battles that occur, in The  Hearts of Men.<br />Allow yourself to be transported into the lives of  Prodigy, Bernard, and Poppa Doc, and witness how REAL men confront love,  obstacles, and responsibilities. Journey into a world of supportive, strong  black men that willingly admit mistakes, assault their faults, and accept  responsibility.<br />Ladies, while reading The Hearts of Men, you won't be  waiting to exhale; instead, you'll be panting and receiving an over  abundance of oxygen. Witness men making positive changes and sacrifices.  You'll meet men who celebrate being fathers, revel in being husbands, and  respect their women.<br />Consequently, you know that everyone's starting  point isn't the same, and that we all reach our perspective destinations  sporadically. With that in mind, sit back with this sparkling novel and  take the journey.	2000-09-20
US	52498644	R3IXZJ5ZOKABW2	0446527920	604788423	Temptation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Enriching Romance	Kyla and Jefferson Blake's 16-year marriage is put to the test in this  spectacular novel. Their marriage is full of love, stability, and most  importantly God. Their faith in God and their marriage is insurmountable.  But even Christians encounter temptation...Where will Kyla &amp; Jefferson  place God in their lives when temptation strikes?<br />The situations and  characters in this novel are both heart wrenching and heart warming.  Temptation is an intoxicating story of awareness, faith, friendship, vows,  and love. Ms. Murray deposits us into a perilous situation leaving our  mouths hanging open in disbelief, and our hands wringing in anticipation.  You'll stay up all night with Kyla and Jefferson praying with them that God  delivers them from the pain and storms that thunder in their  lives.<br />Victoria's masterful storytelling maintains your interest and  evokes your emotions, while enlightening where you place your faith.	2000-08-29
US	52498644	R1CGDX7IGE5HTA	096787890X	130906008	Shades of Jade	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Magnificent Suspenseful Romance	Whew! I started reading Shades of Jade this morning, and I finished it this evening. I could not close this novel, until I read the last word on  the very last page; and even then, I still wanted more! With a palpitating  heart and sweaty fingers, I sat on the edge of my sofa anticipating the  outcome of this stellar story.<br />Shades of Jade is an intense thriller  laced with romance. Marissa is a beautiful, vivacious, successful women  whose got it going on, except that she's got an attraction for married men.  She lives this life void of remorse, responsibility, or guilt until a  narcissistic stalker threatens her life, stopping at nothing short of her  heinous death.<br />Gloria Mallette does a magnificent job of luring readers  into this penchant story brimming with scorching deception and magnetizing  romance. The characters are vividly developed, colorful, and alive. The  story zips along like an AWOL raft on white water. <br />Intermingling with  the suspense is an arduous subplot that will leave you even more anxious  than the mystery at hand. Intrigued, curious, and stimulated you'll turn  each page wracking your brain trying to figure out the mystery, while  simultaneously cheering the romance that threatens to rupture. You'll never  be able to guess the outcome, so just block off an abundance of time, deal  with your anxiety, and flow through the pages of Shades of Jade until your  curiosity is squelched.	2000-08-21
US	52498644	R3ISTZ6GGOQDLT	0451200489	787789104	Close Encounters	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Sensuous &amp; Riveting	Close Encounters is an arduous interracial romance tale sagaciously laced with excitement and suspense. Without omitting societal prejudices and  stereotypical presupposes, Sandra blends a poignant love story that  embraces more than the common obstacles that many interracial couples  endure. Close Encounters over flows with vivid situations that will leave  you anxious and intrigued. <br />Carol Tagart and Lee Grafton are thrust  together one night during a heinous situation that changes both of their  lives forever. Against all odds, they fight unrelenting adversaries that  threaten their relationship, their character, and their existence.<br />What I  like most about this novel is the engrossing and passionate story line that  deals with a myriad of delicate subjects, and the graceful and pivoting way  that the story is told. The added subplots of suspense were thrilling and  riveting. Make sure that you block off plenty of time to read this book  because once you start, you won't be able to stop reading until the very  last page.	2000-08-08
US	52498644	R2R2A85AX13X9	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Engrossing	Liar's Game is a story of getting to, getting through, and getting out of  relationships. This novel exposes the rhapsody, fear, betrayal, failure,  and triumphs of different types of relationships...going beyond initial  attraction, supple dating, and passionate entangled bodies, and into what  occurs when you really get to know your lover... <br />I truly felt like I was  a fly on the wall throughout Vince and Dana's tumultuous  relationship...feeling their pain and confusion. I especially felt Dana's  pain of missing New York. Toward the end of the novel, Eric gave Dana a  page or two to release her nostalgia for the place she previously called  home. Having just relocated to California myself from the East Coast, I  totally related and felt what Dana expressed. Vivid details and words took  me right into Dana's mind, where I could see the places she described and  the penchant longing she felt.<br />Eric's previous novels were excellent  stories that entertained me, and I just enjoyed them. With Liar's Game,  Eric went deep, his emotion filled words lured me into the situations  before I even knew what was happening. Liar's Game didn't just entertain  me, I felt it.	2000-08-04
US	52498644	R1L09WCSTALL37	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engrossing	Liar's Game is a story of getting to, getting through, and getting out of  relationships. This novel exposes the rhapsody, fear, betrayal, failure,  and triumphs of different types of relationships...going beyond initial  attraction, supple dating, and passionate entangled bodies, and into what  occurs when you really get to know your lover... <br />I truly felt like I was  a fly on the wall throughout Vince and Dana's tumultuous  relationship...feeling their pain and confusion. I especially felt Dana's  pain of missing New York. Toward the end of the novel, Eric gave Dana a  page or two to release her nostalgia for the place she previously called  home. Having just relocated to California myself from the East Coast, I  totally related and felt what Dana expressed. Vivid details and words took  me right into Dana's mind, where I could see the places she described and  the penchant longing she felt.<br />Eric's previous novels were excellent  stories that entertained me, and I just enjoyed them. With Liar's Game,  Eric went deep, his emotion filled words lured me into the situations  before I even knew what was happening. Liar's Game didn't just entertain  me, I felt it.	2000-08-04
US	52498644	R2650GGNF8G27F	0684835665	709047711	Flyy Girl	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Back down memory lane.....	Flyy Girl engulfed me. Omar's account of the eighties was so thorough and in depth...the loose language, the flashy clothes, the `I'm better than you' attitude, was vivid and consistent. Tracy Ellison, the main character  of Flyy Girl, is a year younger than me. So reading Flyy Girl took me back  to my own youth, when I wore Coca Cola sweatshirts, Guess jeans, and so  much gold that it would blind you. Subliminally, I went back to the `80s  dances and parties. It was so refreshing to read.<br />What struck me most was  the accuracy of the growing pains that the young female characters in Flyy  Girl encountered. The profound peer pressure, the dubious dating game, and  the ferocious family matters, were so in depth. Since Omar is a male  writing about the internal feelings and thinking of growing girls, I was  very impressed with the authenticity of Tracy and Raheema's feelings,  confidence level, maturation level, and perspectives on issues. I also  enjoyed Raheema's subplot....Tracy's lavish, spoiled, perfect life is one  realm of female adolescence, then Raheema's overbearing, protected, and  acrid environment is another aspect, yet the intermingling of such  different upbringings made the story extremely real and alive to me. Plus  the flagrant differences in their personalities enriched the dilemas in the  novel. Lastly, I was impressed with the degree of growth that all the  characters in the novel underwent. Tracy and her parents matured...Raheema  and her family matured as well. <br />I'm just glad that I didn't have to wait  for the sequel. It's out now, I've got it, and I'm reading it next. If you  want a refreshing and real story, read Flyy Girl. This book is even good  for some teenagers. Good job Omar.	2000-08-01
US	52498644	R3SO9MFOI21ECK	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Never Judge a Book By It's Cover	I can't count the number of people who suggested that I read this novel. But when I read the front flap, I decided that I was uninterested in reading about the stereotypical accounts of a young girl caught up in a  dangerous lifestyle. My friend Jan was so adamant about this tenacious  tale, that she bought me a copy. Feeling obligated, I settled down on the  sofa, intent on at least reading the 1st chapter...and that would confirm  my disinterest. At least I could say I'd tried. Boy was I surprised. Five  hours later The Coldest Winter Ever had me captivated, unable to do  anything else but turn the next page.<br />Sister Soldier's writing is so  vivid, her words so acute, and her characters so well developed that for  two whole days I thought I lived in Brooklyn with the Santiagos, watching  the safe, lavish, secure household which Winter Santiago grew up in,  collapse around her. Watching this young 17-year-old attempt to survive in  sordid, treacherous situations.<br />The Coldest Winter Ever is engrossing,  and powerful. It touches on lessons of morality, respect, loyalty, and  survival. Using brash words, brazen situations, and bold characters, Sister  Soldier holds on to all five of your senses until you finish the last page.	2000-07-20
US	52498644	ROF2DFSZRCP4X	096770300X	380652793	Sin in Soul's Kitchen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Heat is Scorching in Soul's Kitchen	Sin In Soul's Kitchen is an intense, neurotic, thriller about 26 year old Thad's struggle to be the man He knows he can be, and to fulfill his dreams. Thad is constantly at odds with his father and girl friend, grappling for his identity...can he drop his silver-spoon upbringing and heritage to meld into the revolutionary hip-hop melodrama that clings to his lyrical, crafty Brooklyn cohorts?<br />To add more dilemma to Thad's unrelenting emotional trek, his snooty bourgeoisie girl friend has her own wicked agenda and plans for Thad, which don't include his friends from the wrong side of the rail road track or Thad's dreams.<br />In an attempt to lend some sanity to Thad's circumventing mind, he embarks on a journey through the dark crevices of his heart and soul that unravel his nerves and devour his sanity.<br />Andrew Oyefesobi's vivacious lyrics explode off of the pages like firecrackers. The pivoting drama intermingled with the raucous sex scenes, and the sagacious mind games will leave you breathless and bewildered. This novel is engaging, suspenseful, and moves with an edginess that teeters between tepid madness and lucid hysteria. I strongly recommend this book.	2000-07-17
US	52498644	R1PEC6C5ZW53HM	0312264844	166096163	Butterscotch Blues	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful Story	Prepare yourself to encounter an avalanche of emotions that'll transport you into the very pages where this intense story takes place. It's a sensitive story that embraces the euphoria and hardships of friendship and  love. Mulitple situations arise stacking on one another so high that by the  conclusion of the novel, tears are stinging in your eyes, and you are  devouring each page in anticipation of the next. Margaret's vivid  descriptions, poignant characters, and piercing words transport you into  the lives of Sandy, Britney, Janice, and Martha as they live, love, learn,  loose, and grow. You'll feel every emotion that they feel. With flaming  lyrics, Margaret lures you into their lives plucking your emotions until  you feel that you are indeed one of the characters in the novel. Every  character in this progressively realistic novel loves, learns, and  experiences loss, but most amazingly, you'll feel it too.	2000-07-11
US	52498644	R1BT7MFO5NAXCI	0967460115	880046587	Addicted	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Rhapsody	In a short amount of time, Zane authored a literary masterpiece with an ensemble of mystery, excitement, erotica, and love. Zane dispels a colorful story about a love that transcends obstacles and an addiction that is the  catapult for the turmoil in the characters' lives. Using scorching sex  scenes, a palpable storyline, and tumultuous characters, Zane immediately  grabs your attention and doesn't let go until you've read the last word of  the novel. A piercing addiction thwarts Zoe's(main character) decision  making skills plummeting her into a world of sex, lies, and distortion.  Only the paramount love that she and her husband (Jason) share can get them  through the mayhem that Zoe's addiction causes. But, will love be enough to  detain a fatal attraction? With unbridled anticipation, I soared through  this book, my eyes raced over each page digesting every tantalizing word  and piercing dilema. Every time I sighed with relief thinking the danger  was over, another adversary appeared in the next chapter threatening to  break the last link holding Zoe's life together.	2000-06-26
US	52498644	R3AJWC3MWOO9C9	0399146172	908947960	The Devil Riding	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Exciting Journey	As usual, Tamara Hayle's earthy, witty, and down to earth character led us on an exciting journey. This time, Tamara's destination was Atlantic City. I've read all of the Tamara Halye mysteries since their inception almost  ten years ago. I must say, that in the next mystery, I'd like to see Tamara  get ahead. I'd like to see her business expand, maybe she could get a  partner, maybe she could get a love life....I am just saddened that Tamara  is no better off now then she was in 1994. Nevertheless, I'll keep rooting  for her, and waiting for the next mystery.	2000-06-26
US	52498644	R1563AKJ54WSST	0380976633	259905821	Homecourt Advantage	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Scandlous	Rita and Crystal did a wonderful job of creating boisterous storylines, gritty characters, and seemingly insurmountable problems that maintain the readers interest and gets them excitedly involved with the scandlous  situations. Every situation captured my attention, held my concern, and  heard my opinion. HomeCourt Advantage is a ficticious account of a  pro-basketball team called the Flyers. All kind of seedy mayhem occurs: a  player dealing with a fatally attracted X, a friend in love with a player  who can't return her adoration, and a rookie in love with a 'non-black'  women. Not to mention the threat of the Flyers team being sold. But in the  middle of all this is Casey Rogers who some how is the shoulder everyone  cries on and the rock everyone depends on. But while Casey's helping  everybody with their problems, let's hope she remembers to solve her own.  HomeCourt Advantage is an appealing page turner full of the ingredients  that make a good novel.	2000-06-14
US	52498644	R36S4X24XI2116	0375503404	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Comical and Entertaining	Camika Spencer's debut novel, When All Hell Breaks Loose, is a funny story about Gregory Alston and the way he deals with the women in his life...his mother, his bride to be Adrian, and his sister. All hell does break loose  when Gregory and Adrian's nuptuials take a nose dive causing Gregory to  abandon his benevolence and question his manhood. Meanwhile Gregory's  'religious' sister gets duped in a sordid love affair causing Gregory to  almost loose his religion. Lastly, Gregory must deal with the reappearance  of his 'long lost' mother. Camika uses witty dialogue, poignant details,  and an engaging story to pull you into the perils of Gregory's life. Enjoy  the ride.	2000-06-14
US	52498644	R13TNTQ7EXWTWP	0380811308	150038577	Skin Deep	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Insightful	Skin Deep gives an oppulent view of dealing with the prejudices and perils that often accompany being of mixed heritage. Kathleen also delves into how one knows who they are. Do you define your race and character according to  your color, creed, and parents, or do you define yourself by who you've  loved and those that love you back? The story made me think about such  things. Insight is all that I received though. I never developed a  relationship with the characters of Skin Deep. I really didn't care what  happened to them or how their problems were solved. This bothered me  because I thought the idea for the story was awesome, but I needed more of  a connection or deep caring for the characters. It took me a while to  finish the story. I didn't race home from work to read it. Nevertheless,  Skin Deep's theme was unique and the point of view held me through out the  novel.	2000-06-12
US	52498644	R3QFBHC46F8JGC	006105366X	237718280	My Soul to Keep (African Immortals series)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A Thrilling Seduction	My Soul To Keep kept me on the edge of my seat. With each page I turned, my heart thumped loudly, and beads of sweat perched above my upper lip. The novel is a thriller that seduces you and lulls you into the fantasy that  Ms. Due concocts. Dewit and Jessica are soulmates, lovers from different  realms of the heart and different aspects of the mind. Dewit is an immortal  in love with a mortal and Jessica is the recipient of Dewit's lurid love.  Yet this love that connects Dewit &amp; Jessica leads them on a journey of  danger which threatens to rupture their hearts, sever their souls, and send  them spiraling to hell. The intermingling of love and mystery in My Soul to  Keep is spellbinding. While reading this novel, you'll find yourself  cheering, giving advice to the characters, and being seduced into their  tepid world.	2000-06-12
US	52498644	R2JZV3QUPXCAB8	0375504028	73058248	Move Over, Girl: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Shallow Babblings	Move Over Girl was disappointingly the story of Tony Noris' garrulous account of his college escapades. The entire novel was a series of rambling insipid occurrences that were unintersting and shallow. I did enjoy the  humorous dialect and dialogue, but that's not enough. The only episode with  depth was when Tony journeyed home to deal with his younger brother. There  was just no point to the story...no pinnacle, no denoument, and no purpose.  After hours of plowing through this reckless rendition of a story, I  finally just put the novel in a pile that I reserve for charity.	2000-06-05
US	52498644	R36TB93ELCVFFM	0966618904	55411609	Written in Red Ink	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Illustrous Debut Novel	Written in Red Ink is confidently executed, prolifically written, and delightfully concatenated. The Bennett's are a successful black family; however, they are not the Cosby's...and that makes the family real. Kieja  always provided just enough mystery to propell you from page to page with  exhilirating anxiety. The subject matter impressed me the most. Kieja wove  a unique story about the perils of harboring hatred, the fluctuating  relationship between mothers and daughters, momentous matrimony, and the  strength of a united family. She successfully melds lessons, characters,  and situations together, and the outcome is a progressive novel that  maintains your interest, and evokes a plethora of emotions from page to  page.	2000-05-09
US	52498644	R1A2CKDXALH52W	0684856107	175166568	Sweet St. Louis: AN Urban Love Story	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Very Slow	Although the storyline was interesting, the manner in which the story unfolded was slow and boring. Time just seemed to drag as I read this novel, but I finally plowed through and finished it. The last couple of  chapters were the most interesting.	2000-05-01
US	52498644	R1P7TPRDBQLBCC	0965554511	106432790	Voodoo Love	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Good story, but poor editing	Voodoo Love is a wonderful story full of twists, amusing characters, and sundry situations; however, the editing was very poor. I kept stumbling over editing errors that made some of the sentences ambiguous. The story  changed abruptly causing me to wonder if I were reading a collection of  stories instead of a novel. The time factor was also confusing. There were  some blatant inconsistencies. I couldn't keep track of how many months or  days elapsed between episodes. For example, I thought Darika was a  housewife, then suddenly she was a school principle with a secretary that  she'd had for four years. At times the story was whimsical and sporadic,  things just randomly popped up, causing me to back track through the pages  to ensure that I hadn't missed something. The characters were inconsistent  in their thinking and revelations. For example, in one chapter Keith loved  Darika, in another he never loved her, in yet another he loved Darika, but  not in a particular way. For Sonia's next novel, it would be wise to get a  good editor that can track everything: grammer, time, consistency, and  details.	2000-04-29
US	52498644	R4BVFSSHWOKXS	096673310X	869058732	Picking up the Pieces	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Excellent Story	Set in rivoting Atlanta, Sungee takes us through a period of time in two young women's lives. These women are distinctly different, but very good friends; thus, their interwoven personalities surrepticiously reveal both womens' dark secrets and painful memories. Sungee interestingly unfolds  their dilemas, triumphs, and bruises, leaving us pondering our own actions  and lifestyles. It's a nice, quick, read. You'll enjoy it.	2000-04-26
US	52498644	RHUUSQ3CVOK1Q	1930097026	421102549	A Twist of Fate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Page Turning Thriller	A Twist of Fate will have your heart throbbing, your mind whirling, and your nails gripping the side of your chair. You'll anxiously read each page anticipating the next shrilling encounter or loving escapade. Robyn  Williams does an excellent job of making her characters real to the  readers. You'll feel as if you know Ashela &amp; Sam as if you've had them  in your home for dinner. Robyn Williams expertly interweaves intrigue and  romance using her sassy women, strong men, and sultry descriptions, to  produce the next Bestseller....A Twist of Fate. Make sure that when you  start this book, you've blocked off at least two to three hours for reading  time because once you start reading, you won't be able to stop.	2000-04-25
US	52498644	R2IRYS5FVS2DAL	052594463X	254044331	All of Me: A Voluptuous Tale	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Very Boring	Although the overall message in All of Me was uplifting, the story was boring. I plowed through the novel with trepidation, hoping that by the next page something, someone, or some word would spark my interest, but I got to the end of the book, and nothing interesting ever occurred. I was  very disappointed with the lack of intensity, and story telling that  prevailed in this novel. Ms. Berry's first novel, So Good, was an  impressive, interesting, and flowing novel. All of Me simply lacked spunk.	2000-04-18
US	52498644	R12OLED0HYVCK7	096624690X	740611600	Actions Speak Louder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Reality Check	In Actions Speak Louder Hill takes us through a plethora of situations  that evoke an array of emotions...sympathy, anger, contempt, and sorrow,  but everyone will feel an emotion of familiarity. Sharon has created a  character with attributes and obstacles that everyone can relate to;  situations that everyone, at one time in their lives, can relate to. I  found Jazz's vulnurability and strength both familiar and inspiring. The  culmination of events that transpired in Jazz's life could have potentially  broke Jazz down, but Hill does a good job of showing that faith in yourself  and God surpasses any tribulation that one might encounter on this earth.  Actions Speak Louder is a refreshing, inspiring, realistic look at a young  women maturing and finding herself. You will enjoy it.	2000-04-14
US	52498644	R3C0S0MHDCU1ME	0966650301	489907150	The Shirt off His Back	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Frabjous	I applaud Parry Brown for conflating such a magnificent tale. As one who was raised by my father, I could identify with the unsurmountable love that Terry had for his daughters, and the selfishness that the sagacious Catherine displayed. This story is a vociferous wake up call to all who  label all men as dead beat fathers. Parry Brown showed that auspiciousness  isn't enough to raise children. Surprisingly, Catherine's misopeida is not  uncommon among &quot;the 90's&quot; women. Brown's personfification of this  often overlooked characteristic was profound. &quot;The Shirt Off His  Back&quot; is a magnificent story of fatherly love, treasured devotion, and  unsurmountable commitment. It's refreshing and a pleasure to read. I can  speak from experience in expressing that this story is not far fetched or  fairy taled.	2000-04-06
US	52498644	R2B1L2NEP26WIQ	0966317416	424425604	Nobody's Perfect	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Slow, but Spiritually Enlightening	Nobody's Perfect started off really slow. Initially I was bored, but the spiritual innuendos kept me reading. The last five chapters were the most interesting and exciting. So, if you can get past the initial slow story, you'll be pleased. I applaud Patricia for encouraging spiritual principles  in this novel. I was impressed with the central character's willingness to  flee temptation, free herself of past mistakes, and to grow mentally,  emotionally, and spiritually.	2000-04-03
US	52498644	R6D9EUTYCY4E	0525945350	378168929	Good Peoples	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A REAL Love Story	Good Peoples is a refreshing love story, and although it initally appears that the melliflous Myles and the maverick Marrissa are an odd pair, Marcus shows us the power of love. I think everyone can learn something about love  and relationships from this novel. Though Marrissa and Myles take part in a  tumultuous journey, it's not far fetched, nor is it a fairy tale. I  appreciated the pensive, realistic, and indepth manner in which the story  unfolds. Each page left me racing to the next, and surprisingly, I couldn't  predict the outcome. If you want to read a REAL love story with familiar  and beliveable ups and downs, read Good Peoples.	2000-03-26
US	52498644	R344UDHO413YDB	0967027209	204433798	I Thought About You Today	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sensuous and Erotic	To read 'I thought about you today' is to embark on a journey in the secret corners of your mind, that you keep for yourself. His sweltering words wil dance the length of your body and rest on the smile that creases your lips. His poems capture and reveal what your lover's thinking about  when their eyes spill...His words dance in that space in your mind when you  are waiting and telling yourself...it's just a matter of time.	2000-03-24
US	52498644	RMYAFK7OYOJ6P	1930097018	500304291	Preconceived Notions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweltering &amp; Refreshing	It was nice to read a novel depicting positive males, that know how to love. Robyn's ensemble of characters is delightful, and the poignant love scenes drip of emotions and ecstacy. Preconceived Notions is about  unrelenting love, providential friendship, and extensile strength. You will  enjoy reading it.	2000-03-23
US	52498644	R6OBUXY56Z5W6	0525944249	748394052	Shades of Justice	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Page Turner	I truly enjoyed reading Shades of Justice; It's exciting and rivoting. Linda tells a good story. I loved the controversy and mystery. Good work!	2000-03-17
US	52498644	R23RP4XPM3VIL1	1881524639	353933975	Forwards & Backwards	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Splendid Story	You know the story is good when you go to your car on your lunch break to read. Forwards &amp; Backwards peaks your interest right from the start. The lively, in-depth, and well developed characters jump off of the pages  and introduce themselves to you. The story line propelled me from page to  page with such vigor, that when I got to the last page I was startled. I  love that Jacquese has twists and turns in this story that mirrors suspense  movies. You won't be disappointed. I do however, wish that there were more  aesthetic descriptions of the characters. The existing ones were so sketchy  that I couldn't successfully imagine what some of the characters looked  like. I knew who they were, how they thought, and what they liked, but the  characters lacked real description. Nevertheless, that didn't take away  from the perilous tale.	2000-03-17
US	52498644	R1L4FIF3I5AO61	0967602807	528703759	Satin Doll	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent	Satin Doll is a real page turner. The characters are excellently developed, and the storyline just flows. I'm eagerly awaiting the sequel!	2000-03-15
US	52498644	R3PSCESHKU2MUE	0688149952	782880862	Blues Dancing: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Soulful Stirrings	I was captivated by the descriptive words and metaphors that Diane uses in Blues Dancing. She uses lyrical, pivoting words that enhance the imagination, and stir the story around in your mind. 'Blues Dancing' is the  best writing and use of words that I've read in a long time. This novel is  the balance between the overly descriptive novels, and the 'tell a tale'  novels. This is the first novel that I've read by Diane, and I was  thoroughly impressed. Her characters were so well developed and described,  that I could actually feel them, their dilemas, their pain, and their  longing. Reading 'Blues Dancing' was like listening to a slow, sultry jazz  song dripping with soulful love and palpatating emotions.	2000-03-10
US	52498644	R2JRY7TMYXV014	0380729091	986415123	No Hiding Place: A Tamara Hayle Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing	I've read all of the Tamara Hayle mysteries. I'm amazed how each story is better than the last. They just get more exciting. After each one I think to myself, 'now you can't top that one'; however, Ms. Wesley keeps coming  back with more. The characters are so earthy and real. Everyone can relate  to these characters in some way or another.	2000-03-09
US	52498644	R2I0Q9I6E2YYB5	1575664895	824287693	Casting The First Stone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Riveting	'Casting the First Stone' exposes the rise and fall of man called by God to lead Saints, but succombs to the temptations of this world. The novel simultaneously refreshes you with a strong female character who resists  temptation. If you are looking for an honest story, with colorful  characters, and situations that propel you through the pages, 'Casting the  First Stone', is the novel you need to read. You won't be able to put the  book down...and even at the last page, you'll long for more.	2000-03-06
US	52498644	R2GLP8DW08QEA6	1567430406	450566881	Chesapeake Song	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Very Real	Although a little lengthy, 'Chesapeake Song', is an excellent, honest story of love, heritage, and marriage. It depicts how your upbringing and adolescent environment capitulate many aspects of your adult life. This  story will tug on your heart, and make you think. Read this book on a sunny  day, at the park, under a tree, with a cool glass of lemonade.	2000-03-06
US	52498644	R1JWGB6S8SZHF9	038072491X	951737072	When Death Comes Stealing (Tamara Hayle Mysteries)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Gripping	I wasn't a mystery reader until AFTER I ran through the streets of Newark NJ with Tamara Hayle. Tamara is down to earth, smart, witty, and contemporary. Along with the savy characters, Wesley tells a pulsating  story of excitement; combined, these attributes make for an excellent read.	2000-03-06
US	52498644	R2NUJUI9NCX8YM	0060172789	247910624	A Long Way From Home	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Ingenious	I hate reading time pieces, and I hate books whose subject remotely deals with slavery, but I loved &quot;A Long Way From Home.&quot; The idea of weaving a story from the perspective of a young girl, and from the female  ancestory line was very creative and inventive. I read the book in five  hours. I was captivated by the ingenious way that Connie told her story.  BRAVO!  Don't let the subject matter deter you from reading this  novel..it's the method of writing that will interest you.	2000-03-06
US	52498644	R3S58CCZLUKF85	0385318634	931158029	Please Please Please	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Vivid Page Turner	Great character development. I actually felt like I could talk to Baby Sister. The story was extremely interesting. I couldn't wait to see what would happen next.	2000-03-02
US	52498644	RJQDLZGBUV2GJ	1885478747	696013704	Fate (Love Spectrum Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Prolific	&quot;Fate&quot; was spellbounding, refreshing, and wonderfully written. Starr has authored a wonderful love story without up front steamy sex scenes. If I had a teenage daughter, I'd allow her to read Fate because  it's full of strength, truth, and morals. I thouroughly enjoyed reading  about Nessa and Scott. I can't believe this is Starr's first novel. I'm  eagerly awaiting the next page turner!	2000-03-02
US	52498644	R1Q4AKHFUDR0XD	096436753X	885388260	The Maintenance Man	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Languid and Predictable	It's rare that I complain about these kinds of things because I'm not one for lengthy descriptions, but I do expect the author to initially set up the atmosphere for me, and lead me a little in character development.  Environmental descriptions are important, and 'The Maintenance Man' failed  to electrify me because the characters simply plane hopped to Atlanta, Los  Angeles, and Chicago. There were no indepth descriptions; ie. street names,  atmospheric descriptions, or people descriptions. I really couldn't invoke  fundamental character traits because the characters lacked depth, and were  too defined by their actions. Also, the story line is a rendention of  'Cheaters' without the lovely details and descriptions. Baisden tells an  interesting story, but the novel needs more enriched &amp; developed  characters, poignant descriptions, and twists to the tale. I did, however,  enjoy 'Men Cry In The Dark'. :-)	2000-03-02
US	52498644	R2IC9ZF2VLUMWM	1885478348	856246014	Pride and Joi (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Love Story	The Love story in 'Pride and Joy' is exhilirating and refreshing. This novel is gracefully written, and flows like a river over a cliff. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. If you want a pleasant, happy, invigorating  story, you won't be disappointed.	2000-02-16
US	52498644	R16W7M425AGQGW	068485340X	119070194	Somethin' Extra : A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amorously Awesome	Somethin' Extra was a delightfully spun tale. The characters were so well developed, that I could actually feel their pain, and celebrate their euphoria. The novel flowed quickly, getting straight to the point. We  weren't bombarded with sundry descriptions, but Patty provided enough  detail to let our minds visualize the rest. I loved the interweaving plots  and spunky characters. I'm going to recommend this book for our book club.  Good job Patty.	2000-02-11
US	52498644	REQNLEBL3M4AH	0967602807	528703759	Satin Doll	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dynamite!	I couldn't put this book down. The descriptions, dialogue, and characters were so vivid and life like. I read this book in one sitting. Go ahead Karen with your bad self....waiting on the next novel.	2000-02-11
US	52498644	R1M5WJPDS4XR83	0525943862	858784351	Cheaters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eric does it again	Once again Eric Jerome Dickey entertains us with another satisfying, page turning novel. You'll love his witty, down to earth, and sometimes 'typical' characters....walking a trail of despair, and often destruction.  But you know in the end...Eric always paints us a rainbow!	2000-01-11
US	52498644	R3DFMSWG1ZJXCT	0380805790	411774905	Until...	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Engulfed	Excellent writing. I was eager to turn each page...often holding my breath in anticipation. Great read. I read it in two days!	2000-01-11
US	52498644	RG6M9B0JIUZYO	0553298046	1581781	Specter of the Past (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn #1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Superb	I eagerly awaited Zahn's next Star Wars saga  novel, and I wasn't disappointed. No other writer captures the spirit, fervor, and zeal of Star Wars as does Zahn. This book will have your hands shaking with  anticipation, as you try to finish one page before springing to the next. I  hope that other Star Wars writers use Zahn as an example.	2000-01-11
US	52498644	R1TP5K8542AWJV	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AWESOME!  Thanks Timothy!	I do hope that this isn't Zahn's last Star Wars novel. Words cannot express the delight I experienced in reading Vision of the Future. You'll just have to read it...you won't be disappointed. This was an excellent  ending for the Bantam Star Wars series. I hope that Del Rey will allow Zahn  to write for them.	2000-01-11
US	52498644	R22YSVIW57IQCC	0345428447	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Horror instead of traditional Star Wars	I can tell that Salvatore's previous books were horror books. He is never able to marry his horrific plot and the traditional Star Wars plot. If you remove any pretenses of Star Wars, you have a horror story with characters  slaying people with axes. I was very disappointed. The notable  characteristics of Han Solo, and Leia were altered, and the plots involving  Solo &amp; Leia were too comical. The omnipotence of 'The Force' was absent  from this book. I think more previous research from the Bantam books should  have occurred. I hope that the future Del Rey books remain with the  traditional plots, characters, feel, and atmosphere of Star Wars Sagas.	2000-01-06
