US	52504161	R1040RUQEKPLNQ	0887408516	512807535	Useful Beauty: Turning Practical Items on a Wood Lathe (Schiffer Book for Woodworkers)	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Fun Projects	The author (D. Sing) really likes his work.  It shows in this book.  He has put together a lot of just fun to do projects that still have usefullness beyond beauty.<br /><br />My only real complaint about the book is it isn't always easy to understand how to construct the project.  Some of the turing can be tricky, and there needs to be more explanation on some of these turnings.<br /><br />One problem I have found with most \\"how to\\" books is the person writing the book really has a knack for this kind of work.  They just breeze through painting, drawing, wood working, wood turning etc and often just can't recongnize what the problems are for those of us who do not have the built in knack.  And, of course the person has been doing these projects for years and can do a lot of basic things by eye or they just \\"know\\" how to hold the skew (or paint brush or whatever).  This book suffers somewhat from that problem.  What is just no big deal or not even thought about by Mr. Sing is very hard for me to do.<br /><br />Overall, a good book with a lot of fun projects.	2005-09-07
US	52504161	R2U9AAOVLPEN5H	0764303597	66516827	Unique & Unusual Pens: From the Wood Lathe (Schiffer Book for Woodturners)	Books	2	6	9	N	Y	Just Ok	The book does contain a lot of pens that are unusual; however, I wanted more information about turning small coves or other decorations.  I also wanted some unusual design ideas - not just using different wood or putting in blocks of different wood, but designing the pen itself.  Making it easier to hold or write with or changing the balance or length etc for the purpose of improving the product, not just the look.<br /><br />Anyway, the book does have a lot of pens displayed and gives the pen turner a lot of ideas about changing the look by changing the wood and how the wood is cut and glued together.  The key is using different materials for the pen itself.	2005-09-07
US	52504161	RKH8JTAKKFRT6	1561587303	423561909	Building Small Projects: The New Best of Fine Woodworking	Books	1	14	32	N	Y	Not My Style	I just didn't like this book.  The projects were complex (at least to me) and would be time consuming to build.  I don't know what type of scrap wood these guys have laying around but it looks like they have a lot of excellent wood.  My scraps or plywood or short lengths of oak - very short.<br /><br />Like most books I did get a few ideas out of reading it, but I did not like the projects and I didn't like the approach of the book.	2005-09-07
US	52504161	R1BIWFM4MPD8SM	0823032698	729155653	Oil Painting for the Serious Beginner: Basic Lessons in Becoming a Good Painter	Books	1	27	48	N	N	Nothing New	This book was a big dissappointment for me.  I was looking for something that was beyond the normal how to paint book, something that isn't in every one of the 100 plus other books on the same subject.  This book is not advanced in any way, and it covers one kind of painting technique.  The direct painting approach is covered, not glazing or other kinds of painting.  Very little discussion of the use of mediums or other advanced techniques.<br /><br />All in all, if you have any other how to paint book you have everything that this one offers.  For glazing and other advanced techniques try How to Paint Like the Old Masters - available here on Amazon.com<br /><br />AD2	2005-01-13
US	52504161	R212M8BRO8C7O2	1581803761	383077449	Watercolor Painting Outside the Lines	Books	1	114	135	N	Y	No Good	I don't know who wrote the other reviews on this book, but I paint and draw and I have purchased a lot of books on art instruction, and this is one of the worst I have ever seen.  I sent the book back to Amazon because it was so bad.  I have only sent one other book back to Amazon and that includes over a hundred I have purchased over the years.<br /><br />This book offers nothing to the artist.  The book is a presentation of the artist's work and not much more.  All the glowing reports of teaching you how to paint negative space are fine, but that is about all the book shows the student.  And you can learn a lot more about negative space in Drawing On The Right Side of the Brain and Keys to Drawing than you can learn here.<br /><br />If you want to look at paintings by this artist (Linda Kemp) go ahead and buy the book, but if you are looking for art instruction look elsewhere.	2004-12-27
US	52504161	R96ZZAQPEOXTC	1585422193	899261702	Color by Betty Edwards: A Course in Mastering the Art of Mixing Colors	Books	5	120	127	N	N	Learn Color Here	If you paint and use color, or just want to appreciate color in painting, this is the book.  What makes Betty Edwards a wonderful teacher is her ability to question what she is doing as a teacher and then find ways to introduce new ways to study the material so as to bring the essence of the lessons home to the student.  In this book she explains that her students were not grasping the essence of color and how to render it effectively.  After some thought she developed new lessons that explained to the students how to understand and use color.  These lessons are now brought to us in the form of this tomb.<br /><br />I have executed the lessons, and they work.  Even though I have been painting for 10 years I learned a lot from this book and doing the exercises.  Doing the exercises is key, but they are very straight forward to do and one can learn even in \\"failure\\" (I had to do a couple of them more than once).<br /><br />So there you have it.  This is an instructional book that works in that it communicates to the reader (student) lessons about color and color usage that are invaluable.  The lessons are clear and the results of doing the lessons are an increased understanding of art and color.<br /><br />Highly recommended.	2004-12-27
US	52504161	R34174FSMEL0BG	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	5	23	43	N	Y	Great Book	This is a wonderful and entertaining book to read and enjoy - IF you like politics and IF you are a conservative.  Liberals will hate it, bash it, trash it and otherwise abuse the content and the author.  Let's face it, Ann is no shrinking violet.  She is up front and very forceful about what is wrong now, and has been wrong for decades, with the very liberal Democratic Party and its mainstream media elite support group.<br /><br />What I like most is the way Ann takes on the liberals on facts.  She attacks them directly on their facts, which she says (and proves) are false.  Ms Coulter is able to show that the liberal interpretation of history rests on distortion after distortion.  For example, she destroys their love of communism and she attacks the liberal elite on their ability to totally ignore the slaughter of mass populations by the communist in the name of social progress.<br /><br />A lot of this book focuses on the attack of 9/11 and its aftermath.  She excoriates the Democrats on quickly forgetting that we were attacked by a cruel and merciless group of thugs that controlled nations and extracted or obtained open cooperation from governments in the Arab world including Iraq.  Ann is able to trash Clinton and his administration for its unmitigated failures to protect the United States, to find and punish the terrorist who had staged numerous attacks on US interests throughout the world and here in our nation prior to 9/11 and the inability or unwillingness of the Clinton administration ( and Democrats and their liberal mainstream press supporters) to see that our nation was at war and under constant threat of attack.<br /><br />I hope Ann sells 10 million copies of this book and all her other books.  I want her to get rich printing the truth, maybe others will follow her lead and the truth will eventually be widely known.	2004-10-22
US	52504161	R1NPUM718OC3R0	082302671X	933045346	How to Paint Like the Old Masters	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Critical Information for Realistic Painters	How To Paint Like The Old Masters is a must have book for any serious artist.  Mr. Sheppard covers the greatest artist of all time and gives both a verbal and pictorial description of how it was done.  He is especially good at showing the importance of mediums and glazing in painting.  He also gives reasonable time estimates of how long it takes to create such a painting.<br /><br />What he doesn't do is show how impressionist, and other modern, painting is done.  He is showing how to paint realistic pictures and there is next to nothing on more modern painting methods.  When he says Old Masters he means Rembrandt, Vermeer, Rubens, et al.<br /><br />The cover shows how some of the Old Masters did it.  They started with a very detailed under painting in grey tones and then advanced to color.  This book illustrates that kind of technique - for the most part.<br /><br />Some say this book isn't for beginners.  Perhaps a person brand new to painting would find the text difficult; however, for anyone who has been painting for any length of time I think this book would be helpful IF you want to try for realistic paintings in the style of the old masters.  If your style is more impressionistic or if you feel you must advance away from the realism of Direr, and others, then this book would not be worth the money.  I will say without reservation that the under painting in grey tones will immediately improve your paintings.  It takes a LOT more time, but the results are hard excellent.<br /><br />For the artist looking for realism and trying to depict the world as the old masters did this book is a wonderful find.	2004-10-04
US	52504161	R2HMPSYGET1PFS	0823003035	95149309	The Artist's Complete Guide to Figure Drawing: A Contemporary Perspective On the Classical Tradition	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Good Idea and Well Presented	I purchase books for ideas.  In the drawing category I have many books and most of them espouse a rather common idea of drawing which involves making an overall shape, such as an oval, and then working to improve the shape into a face or feature into which the eyes, mouth et al are added.  In Ryder's book he starts out stressing that the artist should use a method that allows the overall production of the figure to proceed in distinct steps which stress the total development of the work rather than just one area at a time.  He wants the artist to try to use an \\"envelope\\" to start out with that embodies the entire figure including the gesture and the energy of the pose.<br /><br />This is a new idea - at least to me - and it is worth trying.  The author doesn't say it is the only way to draw but he does say it will improve your drawing to try this method and work at it consistently.  Of course it isn't for everyone.  There are many methods of drawing.  Contour is only one.  Mass is another.  This author uses what is basically a contour method and he adds in the mass (light and dark areas) after the contour is perfect.  It shows in his art.  Some will like it and some will not.  But that isn't the point.  The point is he has a method of producing lifelike figures that is different.<br /><br />Thus, I give the book 4 stars, because Mr. Ryder introduces this new idea in a straightforward fashion that allows the artist to try it out to see if it suits them.  The illustrations could be a little more complete but they are good enough to introduce the concept and by trial and error the student can see if it is something that works for them.	2004-09-20
US	52504161	R4BFUZLM63AT7	0486417263	510667017	Methods and Materials of Painting of the Great Schools and Masters (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	1	10	24	N	Y	Much Too Hard to Read	This book was so hard to follow I sent it back, and I have read and enjoyed a lot of books that are technical in nature or historical in nature.  As I tried to go through this book I was bogged down at once in jargon fit for AD 1600.  Not the kind of thing I want to wade through for reference material or anything else.  There are a lot of other books out there which cover this material and are a lot easier to read.	2004-09-16
US	52504161	RMS9QNUNQLWKG	0060009764	571997989	The Blitzkrieg Myth: How Hitler and the Allies Misread the Strategic Realities of World War II	Books	4	6	16	N	Y	Causes One to Think	The Blitzkrieg Myth, by Mosier, is an excellent book, fun to read and does cause one to think about the thesis.  I think the thesis is wrong, and I think the author supports his thesis with carefully chosen battles (excluding battles that do not support the thesis).  None the less, the book deserves 4 stars because the ideas are clear and concisely presented, and because the ideas cause one to think about what happened in World War II from a different perspective.<br />Mr. Mosier makes the argument that blitzkrieg really means breakthrough as the concept is espoused by Fuller and others.  Breakthrough means getting behind the enemy lines and running amok in his rear areas destroying command and control centers, reserve formations, supplies and the like.  This breakthrough would then cause the collapse of the opposing army and end a war rather soon.  He then argues that the fall of France and other famous panzer battles do not fit the breakthrough description and argues that the \\"new\\" warfare wasn't so new after all.<br />The author has a lot of facts to back up his position.  The German army really was not mechanized but relied mainly on horses to do the work.  The breakthrough really never occurred unless someone make a huge mistake, and the armored advances could always be met with a swift retreat by the enemy therein negating the \\"breakthrough\\".  Mosier makes it clear that he thinks the advances that worked were made on a broad front where the entire enemy army breaks down.<br />The largest problem is the lack of analysis of the eastern front.  The Soviet destruction of Army Group Center (German forces) was a breakthrough in the classic sense and did cause a real shortening of the war.  The same can be said for the Stalingrad encirclement.  These are not analyzed.<br />The other problem is the analysis of the covered actions seems to overlook a very obvious fact.  The entire point of armored warfare was to avoid the gridlocked stalemate of World War I where the defenses overpowered the offense to the point that no real offense was possible for years.  In WW II it is obvious that no such stalemate took hold.  The rush of armored vehicles negated the trench warfare or stalemated combat of WW I.  That WAS the point of Fuller and the other advocates of armored war.  And it worked.  The lines were not static, the defense did not overpower the offense and movement was the key to victory.<br />Did fortifications work?  Yes, they did stop attacks in many instances; however, they did not determine the outcome of the war.  The Atlantic Wall was one example of how fixed fortifications failed that Mosier did not examine.  Other instances of fixed fortifications (Rommel's \\"Devil's Gardens)  doing some good are not deeply examined, but it is clear that movement is what won the day in WW II, not digging in.  Thus, the advocates of armored warfare were correct.  While the defense did adapt to the new war, it adapted with movement of its own, not fixed fortifications.<br />Even though I disagree with the author I like books that cause me to think, and this one does.efenses overpowered the offense to the point that no real offense was possible for years.  In WW II it is obvious that no such stalemate took hold.  The rush of armored vehicles negated the trench warfare or stalemated combat of WW I.  That WAS the point of Fuller and the other advocates of armored war.  And it worked.  The lines were not static, the defense did not overpower the offense and movement was the key to victory.<br />Did fortifications work?  Yes, they did stop attacks in many instances; however, they did not determine the outcome of the war.  The Atlantic Wall was one example of how fixed fortifications failed that Mosier did not examine.  Other instances of fixed fortifications (Rommel's \\"Devil's Gardens)  doing some good are not deeply examined, but it is clear that movement is what won the day in WW II, not digging in.  Thus, the advocates of armored warfare were correct.  While the defense did adapt to the new war, it adapted with movement of its own, not fixed fortifications.<br />Even though I disagree with the author I like books that cause me to think, and this one does.	2004-05-26
US	52504161	R44DFZ5HXAF2Q	0757001637	993813716	The Second World War Asia and the Pacific Atlas (West Point Millitary History Series)	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	Good Maps	These maps are designed to go with the companion volume concerning WWII in the Pacific and must be considered with that in mind.  The maps fit very well with the actions described in the WWII in the Pacific book.  As the maps try and cover the entire Pacific war they cannot give a blow by blow account of each battle; however, they provide a very good overview of the situation as it developed in the Pacific and the key terrain features are shown along with the importance of certain locations.<br />I liked the maps and I like the binding as it allows the maps to be laid out flat for easy viewing.	2004-04-01
US	52504161	R23J3M5U0YTZVQ	1400034620	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	1	123	222	N	Y	Speculation Only	This is not the book to read on the Kennedy assassination.  The author makes so many ipse dixit statements that he destroys what truth there may be in his book.  He makes statements over and over again which reach into the mind of Oswald, and this is a reach he cannot legitimately make.<br />For example, Mr. Posner states that Oswald \\"liked\\" a certain name he was referred to by other Marines, or \\"internalized\\" his anger over a certain event (such as being fired) and other remarks that he has no way of knowing.  I would not mind this lapse if it occurred once or twice and involved insignificant subject matter; however, the author uses these phrases constantly and he interjects them at points where the misinformation is critical.  This make the book nothing short of propaganda.<br />The entire premise of Case Closed is that Oswald was a solid gold nut who was capable of anything.  To reach this conclusion Mr. Posner lets nothing stand in his way.  Even rational conclusions and actions by Oswald are played out as somehow showing he had an infirm grasp of reality.  At one juncture in Case Closed the book relates the story of a debate between Oswald and a member of an anti Castro group in New Orleans.  In this radio debate Oswald was torn to shreds (says the book) and then Oswald returns home and admits to his wife that he was not properly prepared and he totally lost the encounter.  In this instance Oswald reacted in a perfectly rational manner.  Most people who are living in a dream world do not see that they have been bested in any intellectual encounter and they would never be able to admit to others that any failure was due to their lack of preparation.  But in Case Closed the story is related in such a way as to attempt to cause the reader to believe that Oswald was acting irrationally.<br />Other areas are just inconsistent.  According to Case Closed Oswald very carefully prepared a notebook on how to kill Gen Walker (who was speaking in New Orleans) complete with the number of windows in the house, photos of the neighborhood, photos the house, detailed maps etc.  A complete operations manual on how he was going to carry out the task.  None of this was ever located (his wife said he burned it).  But note that in this instance Oswald was a very complete and almost compulsive planner.  Later, when he decided to kill the president, he apparently neglected to accomplish even the most basic plan.  Case Closed never explanes this change of style.  Mr.Posner only goes into the very detailed plan Oswald completed in order to &quot;prove&quot; that Oswald tried to shoot Walker.  The author contends that there is no doubt that Oswald did shoot at Walker, from about 100 feet into a brightly lit room, but through a small miracle managed to miss.  And he only shot once.  The author never compares this course of action to his later alleged actions of killing Kennedy.<br />According to Mr. Posner Oswald was mistreated as a child and he goes on at length to show how bad it was.  But he never says Oswald was beaten, or starved or locked in a closet for days on end etc.  By concentrating on the \\"facts&quot; that support his points the author can, naturally, seem to prove anything.<br />One extremely bothersome point is the discussion of the weapon allegedly used by Oswald to shoot the president.  Posner says a scope can be easily sighted in on a rifle and can the job can be accomplished in 10 shots.  Anyone who says this has no experience with firearms or scopes.  It can take 50 shots to get a scope on target so a person can hit a bulls eye at 100 yards with consistency.  And 100 yards is close.  With a cheap scope it can be even harder.  Before he purchased this weapon there is no record of Oswald having used a scope before.  Sighting in a scope isn't an intuitive process.  There are a number of important steps that must be taken.  When I read that the scope on Oswald's rifle was out of alignment when discovered at the book depository I caneasily believe it.  And an out of align scope is just worthless when trying to hit something.<br />Case Closed claims the weapon used by Oswald had been used to kill elephants!  So has a .22.  The point is to hunt an elephant with such a weapon would be insane.  The speed of the bullet is somewhat low, the round has a low striking energy (compared to other rifles) and the accuracy isn't good.  To compare the rifle to an M-14 (as Posner does) is just outrageous.  No one who knows anything about rifles, especially sniper weapons, would make a favorable comparison between the M-14 and Oswald's weapon.<br />Thus, the book is an exercise in argument and not factual reporting.  The author ignores or misstates evidence not favorable to his conclusion, distorts known facts (like the weapons discussion), and puts thoughts and ideas into Oswald's head that the author could never have known.  Very poor in every aspect.easily believe it.  And an out of align scope is just worthless when trying to hit something.<br />Case Closed claims the weapon used by Oswald had been used to kill elephants!  So has a .22.  The point is to hunt an elephant with such a weapon would be insane.  The speed of the bullet is somewhat low, the round has a low striking energy (compared to other rifles) and the accuracy isn't good.  To compare the rifle to an M-14 (as Posner does) is just outrageous.  No one who knows anything about rifles, especially sniper weapons, would make a favorable comparison between the M-14 and Oswald's weapon.<br />Thus, the book is an exercise in argument and not factual reporting.  The author ignores or misstates evidence not favorable to his conclusion, distorts known facts (like the weapons discussion), and puts thoughts and ideas into Oswald's head that the author could never have known.  Very poor in every aspect.	2004-03-17
US	52504161	R3IMMC2B07CPHZ	0757001602	536028003	The Second World War: Europe and the Mediterranean (The West Point Military History Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Outstanding History	The West Point Word War II series is one of the best sources of history on the Second World War.  The Atlases associated with each volume are a must because the text refers to them frequently.  The writing style is not overly technical and explains the foundations of military doctrine followed by the respective combatants in prosecuting the conflict.<br />The authors are able to point out the fundamental errors made by each side, the results of those miscalculations and what adjustments (if any) were made.  The correct deductions are also put on display for the reader.  And the authors manage to make the conflict dramatic in a professional way.  For example, at the battle of Midway the Americans had put all their critical assets at risk.  If all the US carriers were lost the situation in the Pacific would have been ruinous.  The authors clearly point out that the Japanese fleet was overwhelming, and properly used could not have lost that battle.  The American command was counting on Japanese mistakes, and the Japanese made them.<br />Thus, the West Point historians have injected the true drama of the situation in June of 1942.  A lot was on the line and the history of WWII would have been far different if the US admirals had made the mistakes instead of the Japanese.<br />The entire series is filled with this kind of drama.<br />The background sections which cover the road to WWII is thought provoking and shows how the outcome of the war, in many respects, was determined prior to the start of hostilities.  The books cover the mental attitudes that contributed to the start of the war and the course of the conflict.<br />The series isn't perfect.  The US Army writers find a little time to subtly criticize some actions of the US Navy and US Marines.  They seem to like implying the Marines were getting a lot of publicity for doing the same thing the Army was doing.  This is a very minor criticism and such minor diversions do not detract at all from the superlative standards set by this very complete history.<br />Anyone interested in WWII, its causes, conduct and outcomes, must read this set (one book covers the Pacific war and the other the European war - and there is an atlas for each of these volumes for a total of 4 books).ards set by this very complete history.<br />Anyone interested in WWII, its causes, conduct and outcomes, must read this set (one book covers the Pacific war and the other the European war - and there is an atlas for each of these volumes for a total of 4 books).	2003-10-03
US	52504161	RI4NEPIVI8E9	0757001629	615168624	The Second World War: Asia and the Pacific (The West Point Military History Series)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Outstanding History	The West Point Word War II series is one of the best sources of history on the Second World War.  The Atlases associated with each volume are a must because the text refers to them frequently.  The writing style is not overly technical and explains the foundations of military doctrine followed by the respective combatants in prosecuting the conflict.<br />The authors are able to point out the fundamental errors made by each side, the results of those miscalculations and what adjustments (if any) were made.  The correct deductions are also put on display for the reader.  And the authors manage to make the conflict dramatic in a professional way.  For example, at the battle of Midway the Americans had put all their critical assets at risk.  If all the US carriers were lost the situation in the Pacific would have been ruinous.  The authors clearly point out that the Japanese fleet was overwhelming, and properly used could not have lost that battle.  The American command was counting on Japanese mistakes, and the Japanese made them.<br />Thus, the West Point historians have injected the true drama of the situation in June of 1942.  A lot was on the line and the history of WWII would have been far different if the US admirals had made the mistakes instead of the Japanese.<br />The entire series is filled with this kind of drama.<br />The background sections which cover the road to WWII is thought provoking and shows how the outcome of the war, in many respects, was determined prior to the start of hostilities.  The books cover the mental attitudes that contributed to the start of the war and the course of the conflict.<br />The series isn't perfect.  The US Army writers find a little time to subtly criticize some actions of the US Navy and US Marines.  They seem to like implying the Marines were getting a lot of publicity for doing the same thing the Army was doing.  This is a very minor criticism and such minor diversions do not detract at all from the superlative standards set by this very complete history.<br />Anyone interested in WWII, its causes, conduct and outcomes, must read this set (one book covers the Pacific war and the other the European war - and there is an atlas for each of these volumes for a total of 4 books).ards set by this very complete history.<br />Anyone interested in WWII, its causes, conduct and outcomes, must read this set (one book covers the Pacific war and the other the European war - and there is an atlas for each of these volumes for a total of 4 books).	2003-10-03
US	52504161	R2624PNEOHSRK2	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	1	55	143	N	N	Worse than Worthless	The Guns of August is one of the worst history books ever written.  B. Tuchman displays an arrogant and absolutely violent anti German bias in her examination of the war.  This isn't history in any sense, it is pure propaganda.<br /><br />The Germans of WWI were not the Nazis of WWII.  The Germans did not fight like beasts and they did not murder, torture or otherwise disobey the rules of warfare as understood at the time.  No reputable author who has reviewed the war accuses the Germans of anything like the depravity Tuchman ascribes to them.  Keegan, SLA Marshall and numerous other key historians simply do not report the war as Ms. Tuchman does because they do not swallow propaganda as truth.  What Tuchman has done is adopt British propaganda, published during the war, as truth.  In fact, what the English were reporting was pure fabrication set forth as an unbiased government study of German actions in Belgium.<br /><br />A truly worthless book that slants and taints history in the worst possible way.  The author's motivations for such drivel cannot be known, but the fact that it is there is not disputable.  Historians do, by the very fact that they are human, slant history to fit their unstated and often unexamined assumptions.  But no historian should ever willfully bend the truth to fit his or her world view, or be so dumb as to not know they are doing it.  The best historians strive to avoid bias, but openly admit that it is there.  The key is making one's best effort to avoid it.<br /><br />If you really want to know about World War I read John Keegan.  Save your time and money and avoid this trash.<br /><br />March 2013: I am updating this review to add several books on WWI that I think are very good,<br /><br />[[ASIN:0757001580 The Great War (West Point Military History)]]The West Point Military History Series The Great War, Strategies and Tactics of the First World War; excellent professional discussion of the combat; and [[ASIN:0757001599 West Point Atlas for the Great War: Strategies and Tactics Of The First World War (West Point Military History Series)]] this Atlas will allow the reader to understand the Great War and the movements of armies during the conflict as no other book can.  Both these books are indispensable for anyone wanting to understand WWI.<br /><br /> [[ASIN:0199976279 The Great War: A Combat History of the First World War]] The Great War by Peter Hart, published in 2013 this is an excellent description of how the combat evolved over the course of the war;<br /><br />[[ASIN:0345375564 Dreadnought]], Dreadnaught by Massy is THE book for understanding the run up to WWI - a MUST read for those really interested in the war and the era that led up to the fighting.  Anyone reading Dreadnaught will understand that it took years of missteps and poor leadership to trigger the war.  The book is also a great read.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0375700455 The First World War]]  Keegan's The First World War is an essential history for those interested in how the war came to be and how it was fought.  Keegan is excellent in making observations concerning \\"the obvious\\" which isn't obvious at all until he points it out.  The complete loss of communications with the troops after they went over the top for example, is brought out by Keegan, and few if any others, but explains so much about why combat on the Western front killed so many.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0375760458 Eleventh Month, Eleventh Day, Eleventh Hour: Armistice Day, 1918 World War I and Its Violent Climax]]  Persico's book the Eleventh Month, Eleventh Day, Eleventh Hour is a must read to understand, or at least attempt to understand, the mentality of the leaders (generals) of WWI.  It is a complete condemnation of the thinking process of the \\"leaders\\" sending men into battle in that era.  If you have not read this book, you do not know WWI.<br /><br />There are many other worthwhile books on WWI.  These are the best of them, I think.  The Guns of August is among the worst of them, perhaps the worst.<br /><br />AD2orst of them, perhaps the worst.<br /><br />AD2	2003-10-03
US	52504161	R30Y63PJFQNFHO	081352783X	408628364	The Riddled Chain: Chance, Coincidence and Chaos in Human Evolution	Books	2	2	17	N	Y	Problems with Principles	The Riddled Chain has problems that impact the message of the author.  The first problem is math.  In the book the author states his chance of being born a boy was 12.5 percent.  He reasons that the first child has a 50/50 chance of being a boy, and - if it is a boy - the next child has a 25 percent chance of being a boy etc.  This is totally wrong as at each stage the chance of a boy is 50 percent.  Like tossing a coin, after 100 heads the chances of the next toss being a head is 50/50.  Thus, the author makes a basic error in math and this causes one to think he may have made other serious errors.<br />His computer program for example.  How can we be sure he programmed the machine correctly if he makes such basic math errors?<br />Another problem is his \\"proof\\" that evolution is choas based.  His computer models \\"prove\\" the elimination of even one person from the gene pool may result in the elimination of the entire population.  Then he points out that evolution is much more complex than the computer models because two or more modifications may have to take place in the organism at the same time (human brain enlargement and pelvis enlargement in women for berth purposes).  After all this he says we know it occurred because we are here.  This is blind acceptance of a theory.  His own models show how unlikely it is that we are here and how unlikely it is that evolution explains our presence, yet he goes no further in his reasoning.<br />This type of reasoning is why little advance is being made in evolutionary thinking.  One cannot look at the results and then say something must have happened according to a theory because we can look at the results.  Ancient societies had good explanations for how the solar system worked.  They were wrong, but if all they had to say was \\"look up at the sun, it is there, so you can see we are right\\" no challenge would ever have come along.<br />What is really needed is some scientific study on new pathways to explain how we got here.  Evolution is filled with problems that \\"science\\" fails to explain.  Dogma is not an explanation.  Perhaps nature itself has invented man to fill a void other mechanisms have not filled.  Nature abhores a vacuum.  Go to Death Valley and even there life abounds.  Perhaps nature has a built in mechanism that will try to create a living creature that will build machines to leave this planet and fill the void of space.  Like a plant reaching for the sun, nature may reach for the stars and the sole purpose of human beings may be to fill the planets that are avilable and able to sustain life.  If such a mechanizm exists I doubt anyone is looking for it because it does not fit evolutionary models.<br />Who knows?  As long as no one is looking for other explanations no research or analysis will take place that may lead to a better understanding of how we arrived at our current set of circumstances.  Darwin may have been wrong.  The debate on other solutions has been mired in the evolution vs creation debate for too long.  This book does not advance any really new solutions or ideas, and that is its major failing.Evolution is filled with problems that \\"science\\" fails to explain.  Dogma is not an explanation.  Perhaps nature itself has invented man to fill a void other mechanisms have not filled.  Nature abhores a vacuum.  Go to Death Valley and even there life abounds.  Perhaps nature has a built in mechanism that will try to create a living creature that will build machines to leave this planet and fill the void of space.  Like a plant reaching for the sun, nature may reach for the stars and the sole purpose of human beings may be to fill the planets that are avilable and able to sustain life.  If such a mechanizm exists I doubt anyone is looking for it because it does not fit evolutionary models.<br />Who knows?  As long as no one is looking for other explanations no research or analysis will take place that may lead to a better understanding of how we arrived at our current set of circumstances.  Darwin may have been wrong.  The debate on other solutions has been mired in the evolution vs creation debate for too long.  This book does not advance any really new solutions or ideas, and that is its major failing.	2002-04-23
US	52504161	RNN4C8A4KZ35R	0304350834	27592248	Military Errors of World War Two (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Strategic Overview - Well Done	This is an excellent book that covers the major errors of military operations in WW II.  Mr. Macksey does a good job of seeing the strategic errors of all sides in the war.  He goes far beyond the tactical evaluations and points out the principal thinking errors that resulted in key outcomes in the various campaigns.  The author is not shy about saying someone was a dunderhead.  On the other hand he is objective about why that person was making tremendous errors.  \\"Bomber\\" Harris, for example, is castigated for his handling of air operations and his misguided belief in how the bomber forces were to be used.  He (Harris) did not value scientific evidence as to how to achieve the best results at the least cost.  Harris was apparently motivated by the desire to expand the air force and make it the decisive factor in the war.<br />Macksey does not point out often enough how correct action on one side lead to errors on the other.  He does discuss this factor at length, but he often omits it in the analysis of key events.  The battle of Midway for example, which he covers very well, omits any discussion of the risk taken by Nimitz in committing his entire carrier force to one battle in one area against a clearly superior enemy force.  It should also be remembered that Nimitz did this after the US Navy and its allies had been taking a terrible beating for six months.  The Japanese had blasted the US Navy at Pearl Harbor, destroyed the allied fleet at the Java Sea, hammered Port Darwin and embarrassed the US Navy in the Philippine landings and other places.  After this unending spate of disasters Nimitz still remained confident he could beat the Japanese at Midway.  And he put all his resources into one attack.  Macksey correctly points out that if the US has lost big at Midway (which it well could have) the result would be Japanese hegemony over the Pacific for at least another year with all the attendant problems that would bring.<br />So the outcome at Midway went far beyond the Japanese doing things wrong, it also meant the US Navy had to do a lot of things right even after the series of defeats and setback of all kinds that it suffered.<br />One other matter should be noted.  Mr. Macksey's writing style is hard to follow.  His book is not an easy read.  His sentence structure is very complex and his serpentine prose makes his conclusions hard to follow.<br />Still, it is an excellent book with a good deal of stretegic thought analyzed and compellingly set forth.yond the Japanese doing things wrong, it also meant the US Navy had to do a lot of things right even after the series of defeats and setback of all kinds that it suffered.<br />One other matter should be noted.  Mr. Macksey's writing style is hard to follow.  His book is not an easy read.  His sentence structure is very complex and his serpentine prose makes his conclusions hard to follow.<br />Still, it is an excellent book with a good deal of stretegic thought analyzed and compellingly set forth.	2002-03-12
US	52504161	R175W1N1R9454R	0813336759	877529619	The Last Neanderthal : The Rise, Success, and Mysterious Extinction of Our Closest Human Relatives	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Lavish Photography and Illistrations	The Last Neanderthal is a lavishly photographed and illustrated book.  Ian Tattersall covers the Neanderthal finds with great detail, and a lot of the book is devoted to the history of discovering and analyzing the Neanderthal finds.  Mr. Tattersall is a pure evolutionist - as one would expect - but he is very careful to identify his opinions verses the actual findings at Neanderthal sites.  This is a refreshing change from the usual \\"scientific\\" approach by other authors on such subjects who present their opinions as fact.  This careful technique adds a great deal to the book and speaks well of Mr. Tattersall's mind set.  A lot of authors cannot distinguish their opinions from fact.<br />The book is very interesting, well written and a lot of fun to study.  There are some unanswered questions, because the cannot be answered, that should have at least been mentioned.  For example, what role did disease play in the eradication of the Neanderthals?  Perhaps the \\"invading\\" humans brought diseases that managed to end the species without any overt aggressive acts.  In any event many such questions go unaddressed, but that is a minor complaint in an overall impressive effort	2002-03-11
US	52504161	R3L5G1NVFRH897	0812932021	187071102	How Hitler Could Have Won World War II: The Fatal Errors That Led to Nazi Defeat	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Excellent Review of Strategy in WW II	I liked this book for several reasons.  The most important reason was Mr. Alexander's ability to raise strategic issues that may have been decisive in the prosecution of the war and clearly point out what the alternative courses of action might have been.  For example, with complete control of the sea and the ability to control the air over at least a chosen part of the battlefield why didn't the allies land at Tunisa rather than further away?  The author considers this a key error, and it at least raises the issue as to why the allies acted as they did.<br />I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to those who enjoy looking at the larger strategy picture and considering what might have been.	2002-03-11
US	52504161	R1P0GSYOJFBCJO	1879181428	862418308	Cataclysm!: Compelling Evidence of a Cosmic Catastrophe in 9500 B.C.	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Thought Provolking	I read this book about a year ago and I still often think on its theory and talk about it with others.  The theory is one that causes a person to think about what may have happened in terms often not considered by conventional wisdom.  Cataclysm is easy to read and makes a number of excellent points about physical evidence not usually written about by mainstream thinkers.<br />A wonderful book and a lot of fun to read and consider.	2002-01-18
US	52504161	R1PH35QJMTCS78	0452010713	652873235	Strategy: Second Revised Edition (Meridian)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Essential	If you like to read military history, or any military subject, this book is essential reading.  Hart explains why victory depends on doing the unexpected.  The author has discoved the why behind so many military successes and failures.  This book is simple to understand and the concepts are put forth in an easy to understand manner.  Hart uses history to explain how his ideas work and how history confirms them.<br />A must read for everyone interested in military history or military thinking.	2002-01-18
US	52504161	R1T8FL48JGBAKL	0873491548	141831878	Airgun Digest	Books	2	6	7	N	Y	Too Old	This publication came out in 1995 and most of the air rilfes and pistols reviewed are out of production.  A lot of good basic information is there, but if you are looking for up to date information this book is not for you.  Also, the prices of the airguns are not listed.  And all the reviews are old.  Too bad, because there is not a lot of good and up to date information on air guns available.  They need to publish another edition.	2001-12-28
US	52504161	R2LG4H5QL27F01	0740721909	954766786	God's Debris: A Thought Experiment	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Not New Thoughts	A good thought provolking book, but the concepts are not new.  Many of the questions presented are the same philosophical arguments that have gone on in western philosophy for hundreds of years.  Very little new information is presented.  Some dis-information is presented and that is something one would not expect in a thought provoking work.<br />The final argument, that the universe is no more than God's Debris reassembling themselves and this accounts for gravity et al doesn't strike me as being a sound basis for anything.  The explanations as to how this accounts for many of the physical attributes of our world is strained to say the least.  The delievery man asking the questions does not ask the type of questions one would expect from a reasonably well informed person.  Rather, the questions are the type one would expect from someone without a solid foundation in science and the answers to such questions can easily be misleading because the person doing the questioning is ignorant of basic scientific facts.  In fact, the answers are misleading and ignore a lot of scientific findings in physics, chemistry, astronomy et al.<br />So, while some of the throught processes are fun to follow, the book does not achieve the purpose of adding to a geniune philosophical debate over the nature of the universe or the nature of man or God et al.  It is a book filled with questions that are more a matter of unstated assumptions and the distorted use of words than the advance of knowledge.	2001-11-27
US	52504161	R3S3P99ADU01TV	0918339510	555341178	Unheralded Victory: The Defeat of the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese Army, 1961-1973	Books	4	25	36	N	Y	Good Overview of Actual Victory and Perceived Defeat	I liked this book.  I did not give the book 5 stars because it could have been written in a more organized style which would allow the reader to follow the story of the war in Vietnam better.  I also disliked the constant review of small unit actions.  One or two would have been enough to get the author's point across.  The book does come through with its point, the United States totally defeated North Vietnam and simply slaughtered its armies in the field.  The author claims that General Gaip admitted to over 1 million killed in the battles with the United States.  As the US lost about 50,000 this translates into not only a US victory, but a tremendous victory on the battlefield.  In fact, if the North Vietnamese are admitting to 1 million dead the total is probably closer to 2 million.<br />The author makes it clear that the major reason for the perception of defeat is the American news media.  In fact, he basically proves they were (and are) no less than trators.  The media was responsible for the perception of defeat, and then the resulting refusal to come to the aid of our ally and defend the Paris peace accords.  In my opinion he makes a good case for this point of view and does show that the anti war &quot;fever&quot; which gripped the US was fabricated by the press.<br />This is an excellent time to read Unheralded Victory because of the war in Afganistan launched in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.  Once again we see the press being used as our enemies greatest weapon.  Every report from the Afganistan rulers is treated as true and beamed into every American home without any censorship by the press.  The press has become the pipeline for Taliban propaganda into the minds of every American who looks at TV news or reads the major news publications.  American leaders are questioned at every turn and yet the enemies of the US are not only not questioned, but their claims are put forth as facts.<br />Have hospitials been bombed by the US?  Have &quot;innocent&quot; people in Afgainistan been killed or hurt by the US?  These claims are never questioned.  US reporters roam about enemy territory and film the horrors of our bombing campaign (according to our enemies), but none of this is ever questioned by our press.<br />Just like Vietnam.  The enemy has a ready audience with our press corps and an audience that accepts thier claims without question.  The author has made a valid point.  Can we fight any war where the US press is a part of our enemies propaganda machine?<br />A must read to understand what is going on in Afganistan today.itials been bombed by the US?  Have &quot;innocent&quot; people in Afgainistan been killed or hurt by the US?  These claims are never questioned.  US reporters roam about enemy territory and film the horrors of our bombing campaign (according to our enemies), but none of this is ever questioned by our press.<br />Just like Vietnam.  The enemy has a ready audience with our press corps and an audience that accepts thier claims without question.  The author has made a valid point.  Can we fight any war where the US press is a part of our enemies propaganda machine?<br />A must read to understand what is going on in Afganistan today.	2001-11-03
US	52504161	R22ROX4500E8SE	007135817X	257952292	Dave Zobel's Bent Book of Boatspeak: How to Sound Like a Sailor and Know Just Enough to Be Dangerous	Books	1	1	4	N	Y	Not Funny Enough	This book is supposed to be funny; however, it isn't funny enough to justify its price.  The book uses word phrases and plays on words to try and attempt its humor.  It fails in every respect.  Dont' get me wrong, there are a FEW funny parts to the book, but it simply repeats the same joke (using new words) over and over.  Thus, it isn't funny enough.  Don't buy it.	2001-11-03
US	52504161	R3KZK1FO3LDU5D	0812572580	759523281	The Lockhorns: "What Do You Mean You Weren't Listening? I Didn't Say Anything"	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Funny	I love the Lockhorns.  Larry and Loretta fight their way through married life like two champions who just will not go down with a punch.  Bill Hoest has a really good look at life in all its inexactness and irony.  And we can laugh.  There is a lot of Larry and Loretta in every relationship and it helps to see the real pros going at one another and still managing to stay together.  If Larry and Loretta can stick it out, so can we.<br />There is real fun here, and that is the main reason to visit with Larry and Loretta.  Fun.  You will laugh with each turn of the page, and be truely sorry for the end of the book.<br />I highly recommend the Lockhorns by Bill Hoest.	2001-10-22
US	52504161	R3PSNV5HHUPZ2A	0812510208	335973253	The Lockhorns: It's A Letter Inviting Mother To Come Visit With Us I'll Mail It Mys	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Funny in Every Way	Bill Hoest is one of the best funny men around. And Leroy and Loretta (the Lockhorns) are his champions. These two blast one another in every possible way, and their marriage counselors as well, while delivering tons of laughs.<br />If you want to have a really good time, lift the cares of the world off your shoulders for awhile, and enjoy a tremendous laugh or two along the way, turn to the Lockhorns. It is a book I have read more than once, and I laugh outloud every time.<br />I highly recommend this book and any book by Bill Hoest about the Lockhorns.	2001-10-22
US	52504161	R35PTBCJCN6P4V	007024233X	396009860	The Nature of Boats: Insights and Esoterica for the Nautically Obsessed	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Lots of Information	This is a book filled with detailed information about boats and boat design.  What is covered is well explained; however, the overall approach is scattered.  The initinal chapters just seem to wander about from one boat design story to another, and then the author even diverts to &quot;mystery&quot; story telling in the style of Mike Hammer.  The author uses a lot of math, but it is not presented in a high flown manner which is often done by those who are good at math.  The math explanations are not only straight forward, but they are always set up in a way that applies the math to the real world of boats and boat design.  The math helps the reader see why certain boats behave in certain ways.<br />Overall this book will enhance the knowledge of anyone who owns a boat but does not have a degree in boat design.  Very useful.	2001-10-10
US	52504161	R1CJLB202188FD	0140159096	656167052	Pearl Harbor: The Verdict of History	Books	5	23	32	N	N	Background to the Attack	This is an excellent book that examines the background to the Pearl Harbor attack, and does not detail the attack itself. This book takes an in depth look at the men and the assumptions that made Pearl Harbor. It searches out the flaws in the American communication system, and the flaws in the commander's thinking which determined the outcome at Pearl. The reader will be surprised at the bureaucratic stumbles that pleagued the American effort. And the reader will quickly recongnize that these same flaws exist in every government (and private) institution today. The authors take great care to quote from the hearings and documents to show their points and leave little room for argument about their conclusions. The research and the analysis are excellent in every way. And the Japanise side of the issue is examined as well. The Japanise pulled off a great feat in surprising the US at Pearl, and they managed it in large part because the US Navy recognized it would be so hard to do; thus, Kimmel and Short (the two US Commanders on the spot) thought it would not be attempted. They also thought it would not be a smart move for the Japanise, and so they assumed the Japanise would play it &quot;smart&quot;. The Japanise, for their part, did not think the US would hesitate to fight once Japan moved toward Southeast Asia; however, they also thought the Americans would not fight for long being weak willed, and too comfortable to risk much. The interplay of this thinking makes the Pearl Harbor story compelling. What makes the book so good is the interplay between all the assumptions made by the US and its commanders and Japan and its commanders. How different the outlooks and assumptions were. It is also interesting to see how even within the US Army and Navy men of intelligence and candor could totally miscommunicate their intentions. Knowing about the details of how the attack took place is great, and one would want to read several books, including At Dawn We Slept, to discover this information - however, unless you know the information in this volume one would have missed the biggest part of the Pearl Harbor story. The &quot;why&quot; it happened. I highly recommend this book. AD2this information - however, unless you know the information in this volume one would have missed the biggest part of the Pearl Harbor story. The &quot;why&quot; it happened. I highly recommend this book. AD2	2001-08-27
US	52504161	R2MXLEUG3GENOH	0809224291	245301801	Power Factor Training Logbook	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Not Useful	Please see my review of Power Factor Training (the book).  I pointed out the power factor training program did not work for me.<br />This log is made to assist a person on the power factor program.  It has the workout routines ( A and B) plus a host of specialized programs.  In addition it has charts you can fill out to mark your progress.  It also has an overview of power factor training that is nearly as informative as the books you can buy on the subject.  From the point of view of inclusiveness the manual succeeds; however, from the point of view of usefullness it fails.<br />The manual has blocks that are too small to write in, and the charts are very small.  The book needs to by 81/2 by 11 to write in well, or at least much larger than it is now.  Sections could also be added for warm up, stretching and cool down as the authors recommend these need to be included in every workout routine.<br />My largest complaint is in the amount of pages devoted to the normal power factor program.  After all the other material is considered the area for the normal power factor training routines A and B comprise about 1/3 of the book.  Maybe less.  The specialization routines take up a lot more of the book.  Why include the specialized routines in this manual?<br />Thus the manual does not have enough space to write in easily, does not have enough pages for the normal power factor workouts, includes too many pages for the specialized routines, and does not include fundimental information in the pages used for the workouts.<br />All in all a substandard effort.	2001-07-03
US	52504161	RMC99IMRYHBI1	0071351507	753109432	Boating Magazine's Insider's Guide to Buying a Powerboat: Featuring Tips and Traps for the Smart Boat Buyer	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Excellent for Boat Buyers	I have never owned a boat and this book opens the eyes of the new comer to boating when it comes to buying a boat.  Lots of good tips for the buyer, and even someone selling a boat could be helped by this book.<br />The writer is concise, and he puts in lots of lists to help with the buying project.  Follow the list and you will do a lot better in looking over the prospective boat.  Simple terms are used, and the terms that are common to boating are explained in an easy to read fashion.<br />The best part of the book is how the author explains the insiders tips for buying a boat.  The title isn't kidding.  The writer really lets you in on the scoop of how the boating dealerships work and how they get you to buy a boat a their price.  He warns the reader that there are no standards in the boating industry (at least nothing comparable to the auto industry) and he points out how to arrive at a competent buying decision.  What to look for in the sea trial is an excellent portion of this buyer's manual.<br />I recommend this book to anyone new to boating who is even thinking about purchasing a boat.	2001-07-03
US	52504161	R92P9D89YUYDD	0809230712	480393753	Power Factor Training : A Scientific Approach to Building Lean Muscle Mass	Books	1	60	70	N	Y	It Did Not Work	Since the beginning of February of 2001 I have used the Power Factor training method described in this book.  I purchased the Power Factor Training Log and used it, and the full body exercises therein, to train.  Prior to starting on the Power Factor program I had been using free weights.  During the program I followed the directions, and my Power Factor numbers did increase with each passing week (I worked out twice per week).  The numbers for the partials I was doing were impressive, at least for me.  By May I was doing squats with 330 pounds and bench presses with 230.  I was doing two sets of each exercise listed in the A and B workouts in the Training Log.  The exercise routines were intense.  Because of the time factor, and the push to finish each exercise quickly and move on to the next, the exercise routine was demanding.<br />On May 19th, 2001 I did a full range test of my lifting strength.  It had not improved.  In most of the exercises the numbers remained static.  I had some small improvement in the squats.  After the full range test I was muscle sore for three days.  Something is definitely different between the full range exercises and the Power Factor partials.  And that something does not favor the Power Factor training method.<br />I think the training method was a failure.  The charts I was keeping in the book showed a strong increase for several weeks followed by a plateau.  After some rest the numbers improved marginally once more.  After a rest of 5 days I took the full range test.  The results were disappointing.<br />Because of my results I cannot recommend this book or any of the Power Factor publications.  It seems many of the trainees have had my disappointing results.  The authors need to do more testing to discover why some people are able to advance on this program and others are not.  After 3 and one half months on the program it seems I would have shown some improvement; however, there was none.	2001-05-21
US	52504161	R1CFY3JEEK0QEW	0345401956	833729860	Ancient Mysteries	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Balanced View of Ancient Controversies	This book accurately compiles the various arguments for and against the ancient mysteries that it covers.  The Orion controversy is well handled (for example) as it puts forth a good summary of the theory that the ancient Egyptians aligned the pyramids at Giza with Orion's belt.  The authors cover the arguments against the theory and point out that no other pyramid structure aligns with the rest of the stars in the Orion pattern.  Then the authors point out that the ancient Egyptians often used the belt alone to designate the constellation Orion.  The writers  let us know that the Orion theory goes too far in its claims that many pyramids align with the stars of various constellations, but may be right on point with the necessity to look to the stars to explain a lot of what the ancient Egyptians were doing.  Current scolars of ancient Egypt simply do not use astronomy to try and understand how the dwellers along the Nile in 3000 BC may have been thinking.<br />Thus, according to Ancient Mysteries, both sides have good points to make.<br />The entire book is filled with the pro and cons of those proposing the theories and those holding to the traditional ways of viewing history.  It is the balance the authors bring to the discussion that makes the book so noteworthy.  Direct quotes from  key passages of the various books supporting or opposing the theories help bring home the essence of each point of view.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the theories of the past being proposed by Handcock and others as a fair view of the proposed theories (summarized of course) and their opponents attempts (often successful) to undermine them.	2001-05-14
US	52504161	RO07KCOPSU1UI	0345320298	653037578	Ancient Engineers	Books	3	17	24	N	Y	So So History, and Not Enough Engineering	This is a well written book, easy to read and filled with fun information; however, it holds a lot of built in assumptions about history and sticks to views that are out of touch with new information.  The engineering information is good, as far as I can tell, but there isn't enough of it.  The book lacks illustrations that are critical to understanding engineering details and concepts.	2001-05-14
US	52504161	RL3N06STIB37Y	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	5	38	66	N	Y	Excellent Review of Evolutionary Problems	I found the Icons of Evolution to be an excellent book, well written and easy to understand.  The book is not, as some reviewers have stated, a re-hash of Christian creationism arguments.  It is a well thought out, organized and factual attack on some of the most cherished proofs of evolution.  The area of the book which had the greatest impact on me was the fact that even disproved &quot;proofs&quot; of evolution continue to be used in textbooks and national science publications.  The author cites textbook after textbook using known false evidence to show evolution is true.  How can anyone claiming to be an impartial scientific observer use false evidence to show that something is true?  The Icons of Evolution proves that some &quot;scientists&quot; will go to any lengths to press their ideas as the truth.  Not a good sign for science.<br />In my opinion the book pulls the covers on the evolutionary arguments being made by a large number of authors today.  Dogma is not science.  The answers to challenges should not be &quot;Darwin's theory is proven and there is no need discussing it any longer.&quot;  A number of reviewers to this book have written the same thing.  Those who support certain theories should welcome the chance to defend them, and should be open to new studies and new ideas about how the facts fit the theories.  When all challenges are dismissed with a waive of the hand something is wrong, and it is probably that the theory cannot stand the challenge.<br />It seems that so called scientists are afraid that if Darwin's theory falls the only remaining answer is God created life as we know it and they simply cannot stand to face that answer.  They defend Darwin, in spite of the terrible pounding it is taking on all fronts, because they have no scientific alternative.  But they are wrong.  It is already being argued by some that nature itself may have a design that is inbred.  Like instincts in an animal, it acts without interference or help from a god and can be used to explain life and its diversity.  While looking out at Death Valley in California I wondered how life managed to make its way into such a hostile environment.  And why.  It occurred to me that maybe that is what life always does.  It makes its way into every possible habitat.  Perhaps nature even went so far as to allow the development of an especially intelligent life form that would build the machines needed to carry life to other planets.  Perhaps life &quot;decided&quot; that chance occurrences such as asteroid strikes throwing microbes into space was not good enough.  So nature &quot;invented&quot; the super intelligent human life form for the main purpose of spreading life to the outer reaches of the universe.<br />I am not proposing this as an alternative to evolution or God, but I am saying that by changing the thought processes scientist can stop arguing with Christians and start thinking about alternatives to Darwinian evolution that enable the search for truth to continue rather than be mired in dogma and false evidence.<br />This can be the real contribution of such works as the Icons of Evolution.  It destroys the false evidence so the discussion can take place over evidence that is real.  I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in science or evolution.nd can be used to explain life and its diversity.  While looking out at Death Valley in California I wondered how life managed to make its way into such a hostile environment.  And why.  It occurred to me that maybe that is what life always does.  It makes its way into every possible habitat.  Perhaps nature even went so far as to allow the development of an especially intelligent life form that would build the machines needed to carry life to other planets.  Perhaps life &quot;decided&quot; that chance occurrences such as asteroid strikes throwing microbes into space was not good enough.  So nature &quot;invented&quot; the super intelligent human life form for the main purpose of spreading life to the outer reaches of the universe.<br />I am not proposing this as an alternative to evolution or God, but I am saying that by changing the thought processes scientist can stop arguing with Christians and start thinking about alternatives to Darwinian evolution that enable the search for truth to continue rather than be mired in dogma and false evidence.<br />This can be the real contribution of such works as the Icons of Evolution.  It destroys the false evidence so the discussion can take place over evidence that is real.  I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in science or evolution.	2001-04-23
US	52504161	R2UL2D861A7P3W	0809298791	439171669	Tapping the Healer Within : Using Thought Field Therapy to Instantly Conquer Your Fears, Anxieties, and Emotional Distress	Books	2	105	129	N	Y	It Did Not Work	I purchased this book with high hopes after reading about thought field therapy in another book (When Working Out Isn't Working Out).  The book is well written and easy to understand.  After finishing the book I began trying the methods described therein right away.  At first I wasn't too disappointed with the lack of results because I thought I might have done something wrong.  I read the book again and tried the methods again.  Still no results.  I still did not give up.  For weeks I have tried to make thought field therapy work for me.  As of yet the results have been entirely negative.<br />I cannot say that the method will not work for others.  Perhaps I have, in some unknown way, missed something.  But the methods are simple and it is hard for me to imagine what I might be doing wrong.  I have to conclude that thought field therapy simply does not work for me.<br />The method involves tapping various point of the body after thinking of an event that causes one anxiety.  It is also supposed to work with physical pain, depression and other problems; however, it has not worked at any level for me.  The book has clear illustrations about when and how to go about tapping (and humming, and counting) so one can easily follow the instructions.  There is nothing complex about it, other than identifying the specific problem then going about the specific routine described in the book for that problem.<br />All in all I would have given the book one star (and I do not recommend the book) because of the ineffectiveness of the program in my case; however, as the book was well written and illustrated and might work for someone else I have given it two stars.	2001-03-27
US	52504161	RTQE6M1C96FYU	0736000895	944324053	Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning	Books	5	28	31	N	Y	The Best Overall View of Weight Training	I have read several weight training books over the past few months and this is the best one I have seen so far.  It is rough going in spots because of the techinical language used by the authors; however, the explanations are wonderful and the pictures are nothing less than outstanding.  Numerous charts and graphs help the reader understand the text.  So much of what is written about bodybuilding and weight training is fluff, not backed up by true research.  In this publication the authors are careful to use only the best research findings and they are excellent at saying when something is thought to be proven verses actually proven.<br />I highly recomend this text to anyone interested in weight training.  I read it from cover to cover and was not bored.  It is excellent as a reference tool as well.	2000-10-19
US	52504161	R38YTHCBE10S25	0966916832	855321	Understanding Body Building Nutrition & Training: Practical, Quick Reference, Answers to Common Bodybuilding Challenges	Books	1	47	51	N	Y	A Different View of How to Lift	This book is not a long one, but the first 80 plus pages are not  nutritional advice, and the final pages (past 100) are definitions of terms  used in bodybuilding.  The approximately 20 pages in between are the ones  with nutritional information.  If you want a book focused on bodybuilding  nutrition please look elsewhere.  IF you want a book that tells you about  bodybuilding and has some nutritional information as an aside this may be  for you.  Many other books are much better; however, they take a different  approach to the bodybuilding subject.  Bodybuilding 101 by Wolff is  excellent as an introduction to bodybuilding; however Bodybuilding 101  endorses the Weider methods which Mr. Aceto does not.  This book will give  you a different view of the endevor and might serve to round out a  beginner's education on the subject.  At least it will let a person know  that there are different approaches to the sport.<br />I would not recommend  this book to a first time bodybuilder or someone who has not read  extensively on the subject.  Anyone purchasing the book should know a lot  of the information will be contradicted in other publications.	2000-09-13
US	52504161	RFC74MP19KC65	1559721847	987288529	Hearts in Conflict: A One-Volume History of the Civil War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great Reading	I found this one volume book on the Civil War to be excellent reading and  thought provoking.  It is concise and easy to read, but filled with  interesting detail about the people who made the era what it was.  The only  failing is the lack of detailed maps showing the battlefields and the troop  movements which are so important to understanding the outcome of the  various battles.<br />The author quotes extensively from letters and other  writings of the era to help the reader climb into the minds of those who  were doing the fighting and the making the decisions.  He is not afraid of  looking into controversy.  The loyality of Gen. McCelland is carefully  called into question for example, but in a balanced fashion.<br />I highly  recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War.  It does not  have the detail one finds in multi volume works on the war, but it is well  done and filled with enough detail to hold the reader's interest from first  to last.	2000-07-07
US	52504161	R294A889J4B2IL	0679446095	665422023	The Way of the World: From the Dawn of Civilizations to the Eve of The Twenty-First Century	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Thoughtful Review of History	The author attempts the near impossible: to summarize world history in a quick easy to read volume.  What is interesting is the author manages to reach the goal.  I have read a very large number of history books, but I have seldom read one so pithy. The author hits home again and again with  thoughtful summarizing concepts that attempt to put history into a larger  perspective - one that pulls history together in a comprehensible fashion.  The book manages to show how the beginnings of history tie into the  present.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in history, and  especially those who want to know how all these seemingly unrelated facts  and events fit together.  One can decide the framework does not really fit  the facts, but it is undeniable the framework pulls the facts together in a  cogent way.  A way that makes history approachable and interesting.<br />A  thought provoking book.  A must read for any history enthusiast.	2000-05-09
US	52504161	RC29IWSTKG5DQ	1861081162	785094440	Pyrography Designs	Books	4	32	33	N	Y	Good Overview of Subject	The book offers a good overview of the subject of woodburning.  The types of tools needed are discussed; however, it was short on explanation here.  The author should have spent more time examining the different types of  tools and the qualities of each type.  The book discusses the best types of  wood for pyrographic efforts and this was useful.  The book has a wide  variety of designs from birds to seashore items.  All are well drawn.  The  disigns are complex, and they are printed in the book very lightly.  The  problem in reproducing them comes from the lightness of the picture and the  complex design.  They do not reproduce as well as disigns I have found in  other books.<br />Overall I found the book informative and the designs  excellent.	2000-04-21
US	52504161	R2TML3NU0L3CZ1	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Good Theory but Too Long	The author has an excellent theory about why world history took the course it did, with the western world taking control and then subjecting the rest of the world to its ways.  It is well thought out and the documentation is excellent.  The writing style makes it an easy book to read.  The major  problem I have with the book is it should have been half as long. Page  after page is devoted to sideline discussions and irrelevent facts that are  not important to the main theory being presented.  I enjoyed the book but  the thesis could have been explained and documented in less than 100  pages. Still, the thesis is sound and should have an important impact on  historical analysis.	2000-04-21
US	52504161	RMSOIQUE0RYG2	0684842548	62503323	Vietnam the Necessary War: A Reinterpretation of America's Most Disastrous Military Conflict	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	Geopolitical Assessment of Vietnam	The author does an excellent job of reviewing the geopolitical importance of the Vietnam war and the various theories of geopolitical power that explain the conduct of nations.  The book attacks the views of both  liberals and conservatives on the reasons for military and political  failure in Vietnam.  While the reasons for failure and the possible  solutions are subject to attack themselves, at least they pose a new way of  looking at the war and its aftermath which should lead to a better way of  examining our current foreign policy.  The book asks the right questions  and it helps develop answers to current and future problems of a  geopolitical nature.  The author's writing style is excellent.  The book  reads quickly and the concepts are well explained.  I highly recommend  this book for anyone interested in history or politics.	2000-03-23
US	52504161	R35K8MZYS0ZGF8	0306807645	920017776	Memoirs: Ten Years And Twenty Days	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	Excellent Overview of U-Boat War	This is an excellent summary of the U-Boat war from the man who ran the German side of the conflict.  He admits his errors frankly.  His writing style is direct and factual.  An outstanding book for any student of World  War II.	1999-03-16
US	52504161	R3795YW3S0PT4V	0684828154	416559835	The Landmark Thucydides:  A Comprehensive Guide to the Peloponnesian War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A War to Learn From	This is an excellent book, although it is hard to follow.  The numerous  maps and side bar comments are an enormous help.  This book will help the  reader learn about war, and the fickle nature of war and leadership in war.  Could Athens have won? Yes, but poor leadership and fate decided  otherwise.  Should Athens have won?  The author forces the reader to admit  that Athens was not so good and Sparta was not so bad; thus, it is hard for  the reader to choose one or the other as a favorite.  The real winners were  the Persians who carefully kept the war going through various devices.  Any  reader of ancient history will enjoy this true work of art.	1998-10-08
US	52504161	R7O0Y7AXUL15N	0393312763	682012032	Black Holes and Time Warps: Einstein's Outrageous Legacy (Commonwealth Fund Book Program)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best of Physics for Everyone	A great book for understanding the theories that are driving physics  today.  The history lessions are invaluable and allow the reader to  understand how modern physics evolved.  The authors style is easy to read  and his ability to explain the most complex concepts makes reading  enjoyable.  I highly recomend this book for anyone with an interest in  physics.	1998-09-25
US	52504161	R2WA66AOZ1S9D1	0880118342	163353933	Serious Strength Training	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Book on Periodization Training	This is an excellent book for explaining the concept of periodization  training.  The tomb is loaded with graphs and information to help the  weight lifter enter into the world of cycle training.  Some of the graphs  and concepts will be difficult to understand and apply for newcomers to the  weight training field.  All in all it is a great book and I highly recomend  it to anyone interested in weight training.	1998-09-23
US	52504161	R1SOJD2VJ8JFXE	0345308239	162225088	The March of Folly: From Troy to Vietnam	Books	1	24	107	N	N	A Poor and biased History Lesson	The overall idea of the book is excellent; that is, decisions of the past  must be judged in the light of the times.  We cannot judge past  civilizations and their decisions by our standards.  While the idea of how  we should view history is excellent the execution of the concept in this  book is horribly flawed.  The author allows her bias to overflow into every  passage.  Nowhere is this retelling of history accomplished from a neutral  point of view.  This destroys the good premise behind the book.  Anyone  reading this book and agreeing with it will simply be agreeing with the  liberal point of view of the author who adopts modern liberal western  thought in reviewing the decisions of the past and condemns those who did  not think like modern western liberals. The author fails to follow the  basic premise of the book and thus destroys her credibility.	1998-09-03
US	52504161	R2LYOOCSAPUGRI	0312186347	84867597	Never Be Lied to Again: How to Get the Truth In 5 Minutes Or Less In Any Conversation Or Situation	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Lie to Discover Lies?	This book has received five stars from many reviewers; however, it cannot  rate five stars in my opinion because the author encourages the reader to  engage in lies to catch others lying.  In one instance he recounts a story  in which the boss is attempting to get a suspected embezzler to tell the  truth.  To do this the boss promises a great reward (the big office at the  end of the hall) if the truth is told and bad circumstances if it isn't.  The boss is telling the crook a lie to get the crook to come clean.  The  crook will be fired if he confesses.  The author gives many examples of  this type where the reader is encouraged to lie so the offender will tell  the truth.  But is this a morally correct position?  I think not.  This  book encourages the very activity it condemns.  And encourages it in a very  big way. Most of the examples fall into the catagory of lying to catch the  lier.  Bad show overall.	1998-09-02
US	52504161	RKKUSVT765G3N	0764550365	620183464	Weight Training For Dummies	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Good Overview of Weight Training	I enjoyed the chatty approach of the authors who are obviously very well  versed in weight training and fitness in general.  The book communicates  the fundimentals of weight lifting well, and encourages the reader to seek  additional information.  The authors are careful to instruct the reader in  the correct form for the exercises and strive to protect the athlet from  injury.  This is an excellent book for anyone involved in weight training.	1998-08-25
