US	52506680	R3401ZJMZ9JN71	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	making exceptions:	I will begin by stating a personal prejudice: In general I find myself biased against fiction written by women.  This is not because of a perceived lack of talent, a derth of ability in sculping carefully written prose, but based upon a seemingly endless repetition of subject matter, that is 'how hard it is to be a woman' that does not consider changing times or fluctuating social trends and merely comes across as 'poor, poor me' whining, a sort of hateful stereotyping in its own right, dating back to Saint Teresa all the way up to any number of drivilous 'hip chick' trash peppering the bestseller lists.<br /><br />But, as with any bigot, I am willing to proudly make exceptions, celebrating the so-called 'good ones' and with Gilead Marilynne Robinson surely gets that not-intended-to-be-condescending note of praise.  This is a wonderful novel, gently sly and slyly gentle, that speaks of the importance of faith alongside the singular inadequecy of organized belief.  Dealing on the surface with relationships between fathers and sons and how one influences the other, often destructively, frequently by inspiring equal and opposite radicalism as a form of rebellion, what this novel really deals with is the very urgency and power of belief, regardless of what it is.<br /><br />Religion, politics, social causes ad infinitum, these are the gospels that various people hold as their idea of or even their substitution for God, something this book repeatedly defines as 'beyond comprehension'.  And here we listen to the voice of a man at the end of his life wishing to distill this lesson into a personal narrative for his young son who will never truly know him.<br /><br />It is a sweet story and it is gorgeously written, moving, stark and somehow containing that rare air of absolute straight-forwardness.  It is what it claims to be and any diversion is more just another facet of the same meaning.<br /><br />Very highly recommended and, although there were several books I may have liked better from this past year, certainly worthy of the fancy prizes bestowed upon it--may have liked better from this past year, certainly worthy of the fancy prizes bestowed upon it--	2005-04-14
US	52506680	R3B85DLW3XP2TR	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The truth of the matter:	It isn't really all that curious why so many reviewers violently disagree as to this novel's worth.  On the one side there are those who enthusiastically praise, rave-rave-rave about a book they may even blushingly call 'a masterpiece'.  Now I am among this group but do not wish to generalize the reasons (a point we will get to shortly) and so I will state that I found the story funny, vicious, intentionally nasty at times and overall a statement that attempts to explore a fundemental truth about American college society in the present day.  Now of course his conclusions will lead to debate.  Some people will find their feathers ruffled and thus will over-react in their denunciation of what is basically an otherwise believable example of irresonsible student behavior (this is a novel and so what the author's character's do, so long as the realistic concept is maintained and we avoid the ludicrious and melodramatic, this is rather easily achieved.)<br /><br />Now what I want to discuss is the not surprising vehemence of several of this novel's detractors.  First of all there are the college age students, basically those the novel targets; here is a group of people (again, I don't wish to generalize but only state facts so understand that there is a wide range of individual oscillation on this scale) who are traditionally hyper-sensative, self-righteous and who take themselves and their opinions far too seriously, schreeching all of it out in an absolutist rant.  Now many of these students, or those essentially in the age group Mr. Wolfe is exploring, find dispute in the norms and mores that he applies to this group of people based wholly on the divergence of their own individual tastes (someone disputed that college kids listen to Brittney Spears while numerous others didn't comprehend why he would be criticizing the open and often desperate sexuality of his characters simply because they themselves have accepted certain behaviors as the norm or themselves indulge in them without guilt).  This, to me, is one of the key things this book is satirizing, this self-obsession, this everyone-thinks-and-is-exactly-like-me-only-I-know-better attitude of the young of any generation.  This idea that nobody really understands me so to hell with them is a concept seen apparent in every character in this book and just as clearly in many of its detractors.  It comes across, frankly, as a sort of whining, the sort of the easily offended when some muddled truth hits too close to home, or the shriek of a wannabe individual cawing that 'at least I'm not like that and so therefore he is wrong--'<br /><br />The book also skews academics (something, I suppose, I must be regarded as) and nowhere is he more dead on than in these portions.  The sports-obsessed faction, the anti-sports, embittered factions, the imposed political righteousness of one portion of the faculty and the vehement, dismissive, equal and opposite politicial righteousness coming from the other extreme of the political spectrum.  Wolfe paints college campuses as battles of equally misguided (and equally refers to far more than two) social, political and moralistic ethical philosophies, all hoarded to like religions by devoted, fanatical followers.  He explains how difficult it is for the individual young student with their individual plans and individual dreams to stay exclusively on that single-minded track when exposed, often drowned in that sea of self-importance and newfound freedom from restraint.<br /><br />This is a devastatingly accurate picture of college life yesterday AND today and no doubt very true of tomorrow as well.  Pull out and twist and take apart any of the momentary political or pop cultural references as they tend to change weekly while the behaviors themselves will essentially remain the same.  There will always be some new craze, some new social concern, some newly enforced ideology that some loud and easily offended group of people will devote themselves toand there will always, always, ALWAYS be some fly on the wall pointing out the hypocrisies of those who deem themselves the heart of our way of life.<br /><br />Congradulations, Mr. Wolfe.  Once more you have gotten things just about and almost perfectly right--ves to and there will always, always, ALWAYS be some fly on the wall pointing out the hypocrisies of those who deem themselves the heart of our way of life. <br /> <br />Congradulations, Mr. Wolfe.  Once more you have gotten things just about and almost perfectly right--	2004-12-17
US	52506680	RO262WS9EIOWE	0375753206	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	surprisingly fluid and entertaining:	Generally I don't care for books written by anyone with an agenda.  Now of course most self-serving and overwhelmingly too serious tomes aren't particularly worthwhile, those of partisans attacking their equal and opposite extreme.  This book was surely written in a heightened and urgent time of deep disgust for the author.  She had recently been divorced, ending a loveless marriage to someone history tells us (now, in hindsight and considering the superior accomplishments of his former wife) was something of a jerk.  Edith sat down in those moments of disillusion mired in a confusing, overwhelming state of newfound personal freedom and ranted out this smart, funny and throughly entertaining book about how stupid and petty she believed some of her contemporaries and ancestors to be.<br /><br />It doesn't matter whether we agree with Wharton's viewpoint or not--that isn't necessary to enjoy this book.  One of the criticisms of male authors of this era (and prior as well as today) is that they are unable to represent realistic female characters.  In most cases this is true, but it is also true with their male characters--self-serving drones who stand in for self-important authors.  It was the rare author who was frequently overpraised for somehow 'understanding' women (I am thinking specifically here of Henry James) as if the author-as-God would be otherwise unable to know the thoughts of their creations.  The truth is that someone like James and, more to the point here, someone like Edith Wharton, were wonderful character profilers.  Wharton's male characters are very true-to-life considering the limitations of the world they exist in.  Her female characters seem more to be like cardboard with the obvious exceptions of the primaries.  Wharton's agenda, here, regardless of what various generations of literary types of forced onto the meaning of this novel, appears to be quite simply an attack on the world she grew up in.  Now this is of course the usual path for self-conscious and self-important writers struggling over their first or second novels and using the often fragmented premises of their own lives as some sort of baited self-therapy exercise, but with Wharton there is something different in her execution.  Perhaps it is because she managed to lose herself in the varying paths of her characters and understood the realities of telling a story that she was able to get away from many of the excesses of this usually annoying genre of self-exposure.  Maybe she was just a better writer than all of these whining and silly ladies who worship/imitated her repeatedly and timelessly only in their own vision they supplied a shrill sort of political statement believing that their godmother would somehow approve.<br /><br />I know that I somehow got off track of reviewing this mostly excellent book--four and a half stars more likely for its constant and beautiful evocation of a world gone by, rounded down, simply, because so many other people attempt to prove the validity of their own inhibitions based on a personal connection to something vague they misread in a book that had nothing to do with them.<br /><br />Recommended with a huff of enthusiasm and an irritable reply to anyone who imagines they truly understand the rage Ms. Wharton was speaking of--f-conscious and self-important writers struggling over their first or second novels and using the often fragmented premises of their own lives as some sort of baited self-therapy exercise, but with Wharton there is something different in her execution.  Perhaps it is because she managed to lose herself in the varying paths of her characters and understood the realities of telling a story that she was able to get away from many of the excesses of this usually annoying genre of self-exposure.  Maybe she was just a better writer than all of these whining and silly ladies who worship/imitated her repeatedly and timelessly only in their own vision they supplied a shrill sort of political statement believing that their godmother would somehow approve. <br /> <br />I know that I somehow got off track of reviewing this mostly excellent book--four and a half stars more likely for its constant and beautiful evocation of a world gone by, rounded down, simply, because so many other people attempt to prove the validity of their own inhibitions based on a personal connection to something vague they misread in a book that had nothing to do with them. <br /> <br />Recommended with a huff of enthusiasm and an irritable reply to anyone who imagines they truly understand the rage Ms. Wharton was speaking of--	2004-10-18
US	52506680	R2E1VYMBI8YR77	0060722282	265537154	The Falls: A Novel	Books	4	7	15	N	N	a comment on joyce carol oates as an author:	Joyce Carol Oates is a phenomenon.  Here is a wonderously prolific monster who seems to enliven her body of work by the sheer intensity of her vision.  There can be no doubt that she has a fertile imagination--think of someone always thinking and modifying a concept as they wander aimlessly through the midnights of their lives watching how other people live.  Now there can be problems with such a submersion into conceptual reality: it can make the concept devour the mode of its telling and thus make it come across as a ramble.<br /><br />Such is the case with virtually all of this otherwise 'genius'' books.<br /><br />Now there is a lot to admire in The Falls, as well as in most of those other sloppy excesses.  The ideas Oates comes up with are dazzling.  She certainly knows the ins and outs psychologically of all of her character's minds and is about to announce clear distinction between the perspectives of her human identities.  This makes for a fully peopled world filled with deeply flawed and self-absorbed characters.  Now this is no doubt quite true too and I challenge anyone to pick up a book like The Falls or one of her many,longer novels and not recognize some of the motives several of her characters justify themselves with.  But the fault lies in the execution and here's what the ultimate enjoyment derives from:<br /><br />Joyce just ain't that good a writer.<br /><br />Now I realize (at least to the enthusiastic initiate) that this might seem a puzzling remark given the immense acclaim and, at times, popular success that has greeted nearly all of this 'modern master's' works, but I stand behind it as the one thing keeping me skeptical after all the insight she has provided me with through the years.  Often her tone is pretentious--academic, in the worst of these lapses--and the fact that her characters are pompous jerks doesn't do much to subdue the at times ponderous details about already throughly explored characters.  In her touchier-feelier days of the late 1960s/early 1970s Oates would even make announcements in dedication to her readers establishing her intention and attempting to tell the class in advance what to look for.  Take, for example, Wonderland's dedication:<br /><br />\\"This book is for all of us who pursue the phantasmagoria of personality.\\"  Huh?  I have just picked up the book and haven't yet started it.  This book is for me . . . or is that purely a technical distinction making the book for shrinks?  Is it for those with what she believes are 'open minds' or simply for fellow writers who seek to undermine the soothing notions that man is essentially good?  At other times she takes religion to task prior to initiating her narrative (the otherwise excellent Son of the Morning) to the reader: \\"For One Whose  absence is palpable as any presence--\\"  But is she renouncing God (as the capitalized 'One' seems to imply)?  Or is this merely some private, sentimental way of saying \\"I miss you\\" to a loved one, or even some broach in between that wonders if even direct proof of The Almighty's existence countered by an outright dismissal of every single gospel could even make a dent on the fragmented rivalries the constitute our many human belief systems?<br /><br />Later Ms. Oates reverted to a rather ambiguously stuffy 'In Memorium', no doubt intended as an honor to some late loved one.  But it lacks the human impact of 'In memory' and the Latinization of such smiling recollections seems to close some former identity into a folder (read: coffin, urn or dust) and file them away as over and done with after completion of this book.<br /><br />Oates has a lot to over and has provided me with a great deal of insight through the years as she's attempted to grow and perpetually remained the same.  Her ideas are still every bit as revolutionary as they were with Garden of Delights, Expensive People and Them and her prose is every bit as worn out and bloated as with Blonde and Foxfire and What I Lived For.  She is a worthwhile author and no matter the strain required to get there in every story there is a juicy root waiting to be snatched by the ambitious reader.  The Falls is simply more of the same . . .or.  She is a worthwhile author and no matter the strain required to get there in every story there is a juicy root waiting to be snatched by the ambitious reader.  The Falls is simply more of the same . . .	2004-09-30
US	52506680	RU0JBPIES5QXX	0140432337	596716152	The Ambassadors (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	13	N	N	somewhat consistant and occasionally engaging:	I don't really care for Henry James.  I have read several of his books, from the atrocious Portrait of a Lady and the even worse Washington Square to the bland muddle of The Awkward Age and The Spoils of Poynton.  The Turn of the Screw was all right, if only because the subject matter seemingly inadvertantly held my interest.  The Wings of the Dove I actually remember liking, but I can't say that I remember much else about it.  So it is with The Ambassadors, another terrifically engaging book that I will forget all of the characters names tomorrow.<br /><br />It really is a pretty good book, written, frankly, with a brilliance I have yet to encounter in this over-rated author's ouevre.  It is beautifully written: psychologically acute and even at times interesting in spite of itself.  The characters are all--and that includes every one of them, from the fleeting passersby to the central focus--astutely articulated creations.  The trouble is that they all seem to be less human than cogs in the machine James called 'narrative'.<br /><br />This can get annoying the deeper one gets into it: everything and everyone is a set piece, a prop thrown out there to move the story along instead of giving the reader the idea that these are real people having things happen to them.<br /><br />This is not--not by a long stretch--the book an initiate should enter James with.  That being said, however, this is (and I imagine will remain) my favorite of all his books.  It is really quite moving when the point (frequently hammered home to us) is made aware to the primary characters.  I am tempted to proclaim that I give this book four and a half stars because there was about a 200 page stretch in the middle when I was throughly and completely engaged in the story.  Be that as it may, I round it down to four because I really, still, don't like Henry James . . .	2004-09-30
US	52506680	R2DJT7RM0D76J0	1400053153	492598168	Treachery: How America's Friends and Foes Are Secretly Arming Our Enemies	Books	1	23	160	N	N	an absolute disgrace:	Yes, some of what the author states is true, in a sense.  However, what he does not state tells much more of the story.  This book reads more like a guy seeking to blame anyone but ourselves for everything and anything.  Sure, there are foreign military and munitions contractors with no loyalty to anything but profit, but of course that is primarily an American market, peopled with those who sold most of the 'weapons of mass destruction' to Iraq, those that The President claims he knew existed, during the Iran-Iraq War that his idol, Ronald Reagan, and his father sold to Hussain themselves (it was his father in particular involved in the arms trading).  Now this book reads like a justification for renaming a fatty snack 'Freedom Fries' and a further justification for the current administration's go-it alone policies that will lead to an isolated America than anything throughly researched (which, no doubt, it probably was).  It is a one-sided political discussion that does not take into consideration the flaws of his own argument, the long, pandering flows of illogic and the ultimate hypocrisy of discussing and condemning international arms dealers (villains, all of them, to be sure)without even bothering to discuss the entire 20th century history of America leading the way to the arming of virtually every nation, virtually all of the people who are currently waging war with us.<br /><br />I do wish to apoligize for the seemingly partisan politicizing I have made in this review to those not wrapped up in their own political ideology, but my review's tone is basically the same tone (from an equal and oppositely aggressive stand point) you will get reading this irresponsible book.  Try something like Kevin Phillips' work on the subject for a far more balenced (think Republican anti-Bush, anyway) take on similar issues.  Nothing you will find will be truly 'fair and balenced' on these potentially and usually, finally either jingoistic or anti-American arguments.  Good luck finding the truth.  Only a tiny fragment, written as a pro-Bush advertisement, will be found here--luck finding the truth.  Only a tiny fragment, written as a pro-Bush advertisement, will be found here--	2004-09-08
US	52506680	R1D5SD0K3F9AN1	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	85	91	N	N	a legitimate and very human tragedy:	I liked Tender is the Night even more than I expected to.  As a fan of a few of his other works (notably The Great Gatsby, This Side of Paradise and The Collected Short Stories), I went into this book with a healthy enthusiasm. . . What I discovered was a story that was painful to watch unfold and one that kept me engaged and interested in what was happening from the first page to the end.<br /><br />It tells the tale of Dick Diver, his wife Nicole, and numerous other equally complicated individuals who sway in and out of their lives over the years following World War One and just prior to the rise of Adolph Hitler.  Americans living in or around Paris and the resort spots of France, these are rich people, people so rich that their money has literally destroyed them.  They have become those rare people who don't have to wish for anything physical, whether it comes in the dream of a mansion on a hill in some far away country, a group of friends that includes royalty and movie stars, or sexual conquests with anyone you can even momentarily desire.  All their dreams have, or could possibly on a whim, come true.  And so there is nothing in this life left for them . . .<br /><br />It is a sad tale of likable people coming unglued, of seeing their lives destroyed and watching nobody care, regardless of their goodness.  It is a story of absolute and utter desolation, finally, as the almost journalistic ending comes at you.  It is like falling out of touch with someone who was once the most important person in your life, hearing vague stories about what they are up to and realizing they are getting fainter and fainter and fainter . . .<br /><br />This was quite obviously a very personal book for its author, a disillusioned man who saw many of his own dreams come true early on and who was left to watch his own joy turn into boredom and finally complete indifference.  This book is the nightmare that all of us hope never comes true.  It is somewhat comforting, in the end, to realize that in spite of his own early death, his crazy wife and his alcoholism, F. Scott Fitzgerald's story isn't anywhere near as terrible as this one.<br /><br />It is, among a multitude, one of the better books I have ever read., to realize that in spite of his own early death, his crazy wife and his alcoholism, F. Scott Fitzgerald's story isn't anywhere near as terrible as this one. <br /> <br />It is, among a multitude, one of the better books I have ever read.	2004-08-28
US	52506680	RX8ZGVC7VNOHX	0486264645	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Lies of God:	That may very well be an apt alternate title for Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness.  There is something so intense about the legend of Kurtz, about the mythologized rumor of a White Man of heightened civilization plunging headfirst into the purest and most naturalistic of the human abyss.  The Jungle, that lost and unexplored place where all the benefits of wealth or education are washed away in the murky hindsight of the thrill of survival.  Heart of Darkness explores that taste, that bitter residue left in the mouth after struggling up to our feet and building a modern world around all this unchanging nature.  It speaks far into the past of that natural root, that call it poison or call it cure which once grew so feral on the yet to be tamed planet earth.  God was more of an idea then, not so much a broken apart and compartmentalized Super-Being that ruled benevolently over a variety of chosen faiths.  Here is the bubbling foundation of the beginnings of organized belief.<br /><br />For Kurtz is God, or at least 'a god', who's myth has grown so spectacular that even reality will not crush his lingering worship.  Heart of Darkness is a story of words put into action (Kurtz is a preacher who has somehow mastered the technique of converting his listeners).  The words are The Idea, the marginalizing of God into a single aspect, with a face plastered on and a motive and agenda made perfectly clear.  Kurtz is this God, this Holy Messiah and pained Anti-Christ.  Conrad is attacking not religion but belief itself.  He attacks humbling one's self, attacks humility at the core by exploring the myth of a man who struggles with neither.  Marlow merely questions (Marlow always questions) and tends to seek ways to expose the foul stench of the absolutes of faith.<br /><br />Kurtz is not a hero and yet is to be admired.  He comes across, at times, as a cross between a benevolent slave-master and a bloody-thirsty ivory trader.  He is every good and every bad of all the extremes combined.  Such is not the very middle but is a world waiting to explode.<br /><br />Heart of Darkness is not about blasphemy, is not about tragedy or sadness, about darkness and light.  Heart of Darkness is about the death of the human soul.  It only seeks to discover what caused the destruction of humanity.  Conrad seems, in most of his work, to take no sides with anything and so cannot be said to be suggesting a new way to live.  All he does is expose, in a frequently crippling fashion, many of our modified or wholly mythologized most sacred and holy beliefs.es combined.  Such is not the very middle but is a world waiting to explode. <br /> <br />Heart of Darkness is not about blasphemy, is not about tragedy or sadness, about darkness and light.  Heart of Darkness is about the death of the human soul.  It only seeks to discover what caused the destruction of humanity.  Conrad seems, in most of his work, to take no sides with anything and so cannot be said to be suggesting a new way to live.  All he does is expose, in a frequently crippling fashion, many of our modified or wholly mythologized most sacred and holy beliefs.	2004-08-09
US	52506680	R2JLU8E3EW1QZL	0316926108	605334526	Scoop	Books	5	8	8	N	N	genuinely and consistantly funny	I throughly enjoyed Scoop.  It isn't that this book is some sort of hallowed masterpiece nor one of those brilliant, brutal satires that summarizes the absurd actuality of a particular state of being or belief.  No, Scoop is just, quite simply, pure fun.  The story becomes rather obvious after a while, but 'obvious' not in a cliched or predictable manner, but in keeping within the consistant vein of Waugh's narrative voice here.  Oh, sure, there are some still relevent statements made regarding the incompetence and petty biases of newspaper men and their dictatorial bosses and there is a clearly put case to be made about how newspapers are run by wealthy industrialists who use their ownership of the media to advance their own selfish agendas, but all of this ultimately falls by the wayside as we follow the adventures of Boot, a disinterested chronicler of seemingly important events he finds himself unable to even bother trying to understand.<br /><br />This is a very good book, more like 4 and a half stars, rounded up, in this rare instance, just because it made me laugh out loud more than a few times.  Enjoy--	2004-07-29
US	52506680	R1CTMTKM5R7ZH9	0451518829	990924494	Sons and Lovers	Books	3	16	21	N	N	yawn . . .	--Oh!  Pardon me for that rather undignified opening.  Although (yawn) when I get to reflecting back on this book it seems somehow an appropriate response.  It is a book about selfish and spoiled people, about elitists imagining their ideas as somehow relevent to the larger world around them and about how a little bit of education can lead to a great deal of contempt for the society in which someone is raised.<br />Now, of course, these are valid and even potentially interesting points, but the method Lawrence chose to tell this, what I gather is a deeply personal story, is basically condescention and self-absorbsion.  After about 100 pages I started dreading what was to come, which was basically more of the same alongside some predictable, tacked on melodramatic tragedy.<br />The complication comes from Lawrence's genuine ability as a writer.  There are lines--sometimes, albiet rarely, pages of pure beauty.  These words came from a powerful and passionate writer who was too personally involved with the story he was telling to make it universial.  I can appreciate the venting, the often conflicted outrage of the elitist scholar and budding psychoanalyist that Lawrence was later to become, but if this is a modelled story of the man's life it will ultimately take away some of the respect my reading of The Rainbow, Women in Love and a handful of his short stories had previously inspired.  I can forgive the late, great author for this childish and selfish book, a mama's boy trying as hard as he can to show off how clever people have always told him he was, but I have trouble comprehending the innumerable critics and casual readers alike who boast and gloat over this story as if the triumph of personal arrogance related within somehow validated their own wavering sense of intellectual accomplishment.<br />Two and a half stars rounded up because of some pretty writing and the apparent lasting relevence of this mostly frivilous work--	2004-07-17
US	52506680	R3C4M2ZKAXIFL6	0151009996	532587120	Why Lincoln Matters: Today More Than Ever	Books	4	7	10	N	N	a valid argument in spite of a clear political bias:	Call this a good book with a number of obvious problems.  The first issue I would take (and my four star review is quite sincere, regardless of the spate of criticisms to follow) is the fact that many of these essays were clearly written at different times.  The editorial process, or what there is of it, has managed somewhat admirably to keep the issues up to date (or at least to the time of its publication as so many things are happening so quickly it is impossible to avoid an ensuing irrelevence).  What is wrong is the fact that so many points are repeated--endlessly, it seems at times--and this makes the reader sometimes wonder if they hadn't just read or overheard the exact same thing elsewhere.  Now there are positives and negatives to this impression.  A positive, certainly, would be the implied rational logic of the argument--yeah, I've heard that before so this guy really makes sense.  The negative (and this probably affected me more specifically) is that you will read the same idea over and over again.<br />Now Cuomo has some good things to say, some interesting parallels to make between Lincoln's time and the present moment in history and he argues passionately and forcefully.  He didn't necessarily need to convince me as I likely already agreed with much of what he is saying.  But as a reader I try to avoid applying my own personal biases and look at the issue at hand objectively (although if I disagreed with his points I bet my review would have dropped a star or two).<br />What is ultimately at hand, after the eloquent sling shots of President Bush and his supporters, is a minimal hypocrisy on the part of Mr. Cuomo, a man I admire and respect tremendously.  He condemns certain politicos of the past for &quot;quoting Lincoln out of context&quot; or for applying his words to their own issues.  Unfortunately he does the exact same thing here, assuming Lincoln's opinions regarding issues a mid-19th century politician, a radical or otherwise, could not possibly grasp.<br />Again, I agree (if not wholeheartedly than essentially) with many of Cuomo's criticisms of the way the Bush administration is running the economy, the 'war on terrorism'--even the murky religious/moral issues at hand throughout the world.  This is a worthwhile book if only to get an intelligent man's opinions, stated clearly and persuasively, regardless of what you may actually believe.  This is not the angry ranting of some spoiled and frustrated 'liberal' nor the embittered mumblings of a professional contrarian, but a well thought out screed and ideology about how to improve not just America but the very world itself.<br />This is, in spite of its temporary contemporary relevence, a celebration of Lincoln's brilliance in statesmanship and his greatness as a communicator.  It is a history book applied to the present.  I would whole-heartedly recommend Cuomo's ideas to anyone--to consider, to talk over, even to debate prior to dismissing.  I would just warn that the author is guilty of much of what he seems to disparage in his own political opposition, regardless of his greater ability to communicate his ideas.bly grasp.<br />Again, I agree (if not wholeheartedly than essentially) with many of Cuomo's criticisms of the way the Bush administration is running the economy, the 'war on terrorism'--even the murky religious/moral issues at hand throughout the world.  This is a worthwhile book if only to get an intelligent man's opinions, stated clearly and persuasively, regardless of what you may actually believe.  This is not the angry ranting of some spoiled and frustrated 'liberal' nor the embittered mumblings of a professional contrarian, but a well thought out screed and ideology about how to improve not just America but the very world itself.<br />This is, in spite of its temporary contemporary relevence, a celebration of Lincoln's brilliance in statesmanship and his greatness as a communicator.  It is a history book applied to the present.  I would whole-heartedly recommend Cuomo's ideas to anyone--to consider, to talk over, even to debate prior to dismissing.  I would just warn that the author is guilty of much of what he seems to disparage in his own political opposition, regardless of his greater ability to communicate his ideas.	2004-07-17
US	52506680	R1BMV4871PI85L	0802133886	326070094	Airships	Books	4	9	13	N	N	all-in-all very good, yet something irked me . . .	I admired this collection a lot.  It is filled with beautiful, mostly inventive writing that features a collective whoop of good humor.  Hannah is a sharp and strong and quite powerful writer and he has an ability to strip away characters until they are a raw,bloody pulp.  He sees and knows and condemns these people too well, like he knows too much of this stuff and has spent all his life in contempt.  This isn't, necessarily, a bad thing, and in Hannah's able hands many of the stories are legitimate treats, comprehension be damned!<br />But the sore root of this collection (aside from our individual tastes) is the sometimes clamouring of a drunken voice (probably legitimately drunken and occasionally veering into misunderstanding) that has some great things to say but too often finds itself distracted by an irritating minutiea.  Sure, the blood and the sadness give several of these tales a needed visceral edge, the kind of voice that drags you there into the eye of the beast that is man.  At other times the figures are too literal parodies, muscousy germs that struggle in the petry dish of the frequently cruel author's imagination.<br />In the end I would definately recommend Airships for the consistantly far-reaching attempts that these little stories of nobodies set out to explore--four or five of them I thought were absolutely wonderful.  I would just offer a casual warning that a certain stretch may come when you're tired of trying so hard and find yourself simply not caring about what happens next.  This is a very human reaction and one that is usually offered with the sometime forgiveness of a desire to someday return to such potential.  This is a book to look over when in a mood of focused patience when you are willing to spend a week or two starting and stopping through a few pictures of hilarious misery that are warped at the edges by an ambitious refrain.	2004-07-08
US	52506680	R9VHKK8W6N5R2	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	3	6	49	N	N	an encouraging sign:	It is encouraging to see the equal vehemence with which an opposition mindset can simaultenously challege the other verdict directly, or to pout and whine.  Any review of Moore's books and pictures essentially engage in the same sort of absolutist banter that brands the left-wing afficienados (in other words: The Followers) more of a 'cult-like mess fallen victim to one person's version of the truth, in this case an imaginative, serious and fervently self-righteous voice that serves to justify (and impregnate--) the conflicting ideals that range across the sides.  On the far side (in those cases . . .) the right-wing luminaries who pocket the anti-Moore rap seem to cling more to a mantra--&quot;liar, Communist, scuzz; Liar, Communist, scuzz&quot;--that rant about this fat kook's comedy sketches, even going so far as to dub them &quot;Obscene&quot; (or some other frivilous individual taste--For example, check out the unnecessary stress over the rating of Fahrenheit 9/11.  The content is certainly far more disturbing than our coroporate-sponsered nightly newscasts, but not in the ways in which movies are ordinarily scored.  The violence is repeated, in endless refrain, on a nightly newscast and the language--oh the language!--that Moore's fervent rivals are now in a standstill over condemning.  Other than that it is a stockpile of footage, cleverly cut and molded into a fascinating story by a talented man with an open jest on his pride ).<br />Now--here!--in this wonderous tome that market's itself as &quot;a schorching attack!&quot; or some other regionalized definition of &quot;I am right and here is what's wrong with--&quot; In this book we have a wave of accusations (including some that are so obviously true that no one really even cares, any longer) we have a frightful cry of outrage (similar, no doubt, to the early days of Michael Moore's formitive time as a high school trouble-maker, something that, on a personal note, I can easily sympathize with . . .) that is so entirely focused to a single point that it finds itself lapsing into a coma over the furor of a single-minded idea.<br />Sorry, folks, but this is a miss--this whole trite little book that gives us some interesting facts and some occasionally clear, brief slabs of logic.  In the end the true blame must be hatched on the writers--guys who are certainly adept at a cyncial turn of phrase or some violently accute personal admission that makes us understand a trace of where these guys are actually coming from.  Other than that, they are lame, they are sodden and repetitious, constantly repeating the same boring facts as though they needed a Rosetta stone to remind them they were on a mission.<br />The present result is that Mr. Moore is just a whole lot better at this game than these guys.  As for the independant reader, for the individual reviewer: Great job folks and keep it up.  One of these days a real forceful guy is gonna rise up and reduce Mr. Moore, in the end, to just another rich, left-wing Hollywood star.  But for now, for the frieghtening impact, Mr. Moore is still around and is the champion cynical and sometimes heart-shattering fact compiler going, still winning in his home state.<br />  It is encouraging to note that this book arrived so suddenly, as a political fender defense.  Come Oscar time (or who knows--MTV Movie Awards time . . .?), something more defensible is going to come out that will slap this murmuring culture war people such as Moore and his fanatical arch-rivals have been yearning for into pure, censorous mania!  It will make this hit-or-miss effort something for 'Future Nostalgia', some book the young second generation conspiracy theorists will seek out (knowing there will millions of them!) and laugh at the lack of identity in the much better known story of the future theorist, and that they will actually 'use' to help form their regrettably INACCURATE and FANTASTICAL ideas that will change the future in SOME VERY REAL ways . . .<br />Almost four stars for the 'future nostalgia', down to three because it is such a half-hearted job..<br />Almost four stars for the 'future nostalgia', down to three because it is such a half-hearted job.	2004-06-30
US	52506680	R23MRU6Q1WY79D	0375752501	841170407	The Magnificent Ambersons (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	feeling sorry when bad things happen to awful people:	Here is a fascinating book.  We start off essentially empathizing with the scornful people who look on at the main character, root root rooting for his demise.  As the story progresses it is difficult to not go on truly hating George Amberson Minifer, if only because of a natural distaste for the self-important and the snobs that roam around unenchanted but clearly not aware of this.  However, as the story reaches its end, I found it impossible to not actual feel something for this jerk, for his oblivious family and more all the mistakes they made that were obvious to everyone except for themselves.  Perhaps this is the truest merit of this wonderful book: such a capable and compassionate understanding of even the worst people (to my mind) that we cannot help but humanize the villains and grow to understand some part of their desperation and yearning for what could never be.<br />A wonderful, truly affecting novel that will linger for a very long time--	2004-05-18
US	52506680	R3FJI7S6YIUGDU	0140188282	843633553	Sister Carrie (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	surprisingly engaging and fascinating	Sister Carrie is a lovely book.  It tells a rather profound story--placed specifically in its time, which was of course the 'Modern Day' for the time it was written.  As a result a book that was once a critical document of patterns of behavior of some of the author's contemporaries has become, for better or worse, an important historical chronical of the dangers of selfishness and uninhibited personal ambition.  Oh, the story is no longer anything unfamiliar, but the grounding and the character studies make this book very affecting and, true to the ideals of its unfortunate literary designation of 'Naturalism' (a meaningless term which limits instead of explains a readers' expectation, much in the way that science-fiction or horror classify something as not necessisarily what it in fact is), this is a very believable and realistic story.<br />The writing itself, as other readers and critics throughout the past one hundred years or so have repeated when attempting to find fault with Sister Carrie, isn't the most impressive thing about the book.  However, in its defense, the cut and dry, occasionally pasted on moments of philosophical conversation and the rugged and perhaps at times inconsistant speech patterns of the various characters somehow, for me, created an even more believable picture, zoning in on those people who attempt to speak both above and beneath their social class and educational backgrounds for either personal gain or in a futile effort to 'fit in'.<br />A wonderful book, because of its flaws, in fact, that reads like a quick-paced and absorbing tale always on the verge of tragedy.  That tension, that what-will-happen-next feeling pervades throughout the book and concludes by providing quite an impact indeed.	2004-05-10
US	52506680	RHCJGXH29MX5A	0679732268	161451712	Light in August	Books	5	1	1	N	N	comparatively straight-forward:	This is a fine book; a character study of numerous characters and a representation of how the demons of the past can come to consume those living today.  I do not wish to rhapsodize on the story of race--that is evident within the text and, honestly, is not the main point or the actual sin of the story.  Race is less concept then consciousness in this book and the idea of 'racism', here, is more inbred than an actual physical hatred: a part of tradition and learning than something violent people go crazy about.  Joe Christmas is someone torn, who is constantly choosing sides until he can no longer be anything.  This, as a result, makes him an actual individual, a person outside such superficial considerations and therefore not really qualified to exist in this world.  All of the primary characters are outsiders of one sort--all of them are equal and all are fundementally the same in their yearning.<br />A very powerful book with a unique vision of the way the world works . . .	2004-02-26
US	52506680	RFVYCL4BPIE34	0060088877	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a quiet study of lives lived	There is not much to The Bridge at San Luis Rey.  In the opening chapter the entire premise is undone, telling of one Brother Juniper and his quest to prove God's motive in a terrible accident that claimed five diverse lives.  The narration of this part goes on to tell us that Brother Juniper was unsuccessful in his quest and was eventually charged with heresy for this undertaking and burned at the stake.  We then go back in time and learn about the distinctive lives of these five victims, both of their lives and their affect on those around them.  It is a quite beautiful story, sweet and hopeful at the end, an enduring picture of lives having meaning and, regardless of the abandonment of the story's initial premise, really quite effective and engaging.  Four and a half, rounded down because the book a read immediately prior to it was something held very special in my heart.	2004-01-19
US	52506680	R2R6OW87VD5XX5	0811202151	283617845	Miss Lonelyhearts & the Day of the Locust	Books	5	3	5	N	N	when tragedy becomes hilarity	Both Miss Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust are miserable stories about optimism crushed by the heartlessness of the real world.  Miss Lonelyhearts sees a good-hearted man overwhelmed by his required, professional commission over the desperate squawks of the truly hopeless.  People write anonymous letters outlining their most unspeakable unhappiness and literally plead with the faceless voice writing an entertainment column for a local tabloid to solve the urgent emptiness of their lives, usually with trite, hopeful cliches.  Miss Lonelyhearts himself is hardly better off than his readers, a young guy unwilling to commit to anything and therefore mostly confused and unhappy.  Here is a brush with the underside of hopeful reality: those despensing advice are often just as wayward as those most in desperate need of any sort of help.  As the cries get louder and human outlook become completely mundane Miss Lonelyhearts finds himself both unwilling and unable to muster even the faintest idea of concern.  He even suggests suicide to one reader if only to get himself fired from his hateful job.  As with everything else, he is unsuccessful.<br />The Day of the Locust is a different sort of monster.  Here is a story so harsh, so utterly hopeless and bleak that it is easy to overlook how grounded in reality it truly is.  Take this story out of its 1930s historical context and the face of the tale would not change.  Here is a story of the dreamers flocking to Hollywood usually with unrealistic and terrifyingly desperate hopes of their own future success.  These dreams are not even well thought out, based solely on the unreal idea of a 'celebrity culture' entertainment press and studio propaganda build around their handful of stars.  But here everyone believes in their own superstardom, everyone imagines their buried talents becoming public property and every ranging idea they have is absorbed into the unreality of their increasingly hopeless dreams.  Even the parody of Hollywood cults is contemporary, of these flighty ideas that the desperate flock to when things aren't going their way; these opportunistic religions, translated today into Scientology, Kabbalah and several other currently in vogue practices that ravage the West Coast nightlife in a mingle of true faith and a drug-induced party atomosphere.  Is The Day of the Locust an exaggeration, exploiting legitimate weaknesses in character in the name of satire?  Perhaps, although I tend to think of it as a much truer picture of those not quite making it, of those growing tired from their ceaseless efforts and daily failures and how they rattle apart under the pressure of their dreams.  This book is honestly one of my favorite of all books, all its brutality, misery and cruelty notwithstanding.  It paints a very delicate picture of the fragile human soul being consumed with reckless abandon by the self-serving greed of all aspirants who need to somehow make themselves greater than they are.  There are all sorts of psychological explanations one could give to explain away this horror, but even this becomes sort of cultish at its extreme, some terrible excuse that ignores individual human motive.  West has written a masterpiece undermining all of these futile ideologies while at the same time telling a swift-moving, entertaining story about something given birth to by the American cult of celebrity.  A very important and perpetually lasting fable, The Day of the Locust is happening every day.ollywood cults is contemporary, of these flighty ideas that the desperate flock to when things aren't going their way; these opportunistic religions, translated today into Scientology, Kabbalah and several other currently in vogue practices that ravage the West Coast nightlife in a mingle of true faith and a drug-induced party atomosphere.  Is The Day of the Locust an exaggeration, exploiting legitimate weaknesses in character in the name of satire?  Perhaps, although I tend to think of it as a much truer picture of those not quite making it, of those growing tired from their ceaseless efforts and daily failures and how they rattle apart under the pressure of their dreams.  This book is honestly one of my favorite of all books, all its brutality, misery and cruelty notwithstanding.  It paints a very delicate picture of the fragile human soul being consumed with reckless abandon by the self-serving greed of all aspirants who need to somehow make themselves greater than they are.  There are all sorts of psychological explanations one could give to explain away this horror, but even this becomes sort of cultish at its extreme, some terrible excuse that ignores individual human motive.  West has written a masterpiece undermining all of these futile ideologies while at the same time telling a swift-moving, entertaining story about something given birth to by the American cult of celebrity.  A very important and perpetually lasting fable, The Day of the Locust is happening every day.	2004-01-19
US	52506680	R54WB00MYZNOP	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Overlooking bias:	...  The first thing I can say about Ragtime, which is a fictionalized story about things that essentially happened in one way or another, is that Doctrow manages to get beyond his clearly socialistic sympathies (evident foremost in the narrative voice) and tell a wonderful and moving story.<br />Ragtime crisscrosses around east coast America to tell three different interlocking stories about three distinctly American families: Old World white and rich, ambitious immigrant Jews and up-and-coming sophisticated black circa 1902.  These three families represent three distinct social classes and, being archetypes to the Nth degree can therefore be used to represent a much larger group of Americans.  The story itself, as others readers have stated, is very simply told.  Ragtime is quite easy to read and very quickly paced.  The urgency of the technological and political advances, the rapid social changes and the human inability to reconcile itself with this too swiftly moving world makes up for the bulk of the narrative, consisting mostly of characters struggling to catch up with the latest play of events.  Most of these characters are well-meaning idealistics, constantly disappointed or undermined by the larger, antagonistic world and seeing their great hopes destroyed by the impatience of the world around them.  It makes for a wonderful and compelling read, biases be damned!--and, if one can overlook the subtle moralizing of Doctrow, there is a great deal to be learned about the importance of America in the 20th century.	2004-01-14
US	52506680	R26M5PHCAKYU93	0141186615	836526677	Parade's End	Books	5	14	17	N	N	quietly sad and fully realized:	Parade's End isn't the swiftest moving of epics.  Comprised of what are supposed to be four seperate novels, it appears unlikely that any of the subsequent chapters in the story could stand alone.  It is a powerful book, the story an inevitable tragedy, the results more of an afflication than anything truly humbling.  The idea is very precise: tell of what could happen to a brutalized, perhaps incestually based feudal family of the ruling sort when confronted with the Modern Horror of the quick-paced, revolutionized ideas of the roving, buzzing, continually at war world.<br />The Age of the Teitjans is coming to an end--the age of the Old Rich and the Founding Fathers controlling and manipulating everything they come in contact with.  The generation of today is gentle and much more soft--Freudian psychology and the threat or embrace of Socialism having done away with the undeniable hope that is the forces of Organized Religion.  Women's Liberation, the freedom of serfs and of slaves and the rampant attack of the Colonialists on their governing masters has made a man like Christopher unable to side with anyone other than those most against his past.  Parade's End is a story of the future--not just the future in the eyes of the past (this book was published in enstallments from 1924-1928), but the future of any generation of today following the end of a devastating World War.  We hear tell of the moral degradation of a nation, of the changing expectations of the populace and the aroused suspicions of everyone, both those who fought in the war and are therefore accustomed to viewing others as hostile and those who remained at home or went abroad to escape the immediate consequences of a world gone mad with rage.  Parade's End tells of exactly that: the end of the human celebration and, in the words of Ford's sometime friend and collaborator, seeing \\"even the most justifiable revolutions (being) prepared by personal impulses disguised into screeds.\\"  For, as even the elite wealthy must compete with the common man for sustinance, human nature inevitably takes over, with all its crude biases and sexual fixations, giving blood to politics and fostering a climate simply devouring itself for spite and for fun.<br />This book is a grand telling of the doom of empires.  It is a story forever of the future as those of any age settling into an accustomed life start seeing the next generation foundering and no longer regret their own mistakes.  Now they start to live in the memory of some distant and frequently misremembered past triumph.  At the end I found myself struggling to remember my own name . . .ite wealthy must compete with the common man for sustinance, human nature inevitably takes over, with all its crude biases and sexual fixations, giving blood to politics and fostering a climate simply devouring itself for spite and for fun.<br />This book is a grand telling of the doom of empires.  It is a story forever of the future as those of any age settling into an accustomed life start seeing the next generation foundering and no longer regret their own mistakes.   Now they start to live in the memory of some distant and frequently misremembered past triumph.  At the end I found myself struggling to remember my own name . . .	2004-01-10
US	52506680	RH5ACLO1A7O92	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a beautiful story of love and war among the inarticulate:	I liked this book much more than I'd expected to.  The prose was quite familiar, knowing and being somewhat indifferent to some of Hemingway's other work.  The difference is with the story itself, one of the historical documentation of World War I and the possible varities of emotional crippling such a wide and vast conflict might inspire.<br />Our main characters, a battle-scarred ambulence corps leiutenant falls in love with a damaged nurse who cares for him both before and after his injury.  The romantic scenes are rather sweet, if also ominous in the childish simplicity these two express their innermost feelings to each other.  Here is a story less of blissful true love (in itself far too fantastical to occur within the gritty realism of this narrative) and more of co-dependancy, that of two people who genuinely need one another and then seperated by the chance of death of one versus the opportunities for astrangment of the other.  Each of these two characters are involved in both of these dialectics, each taking one side versus the other at random times.  I was surprised by the force and the power of a story chronicling mostly the 'down times' of men-at-war.  The scenes of battle themselves are almost a blur, no doubt rather reprsentitive of the actual confusion among participants in any sort of battle, whether organized offensive or defensive or coming under fire without actual warning.  It is a brutal, raw, at times desolating book that dares you to care about these characters and then forces you to endure the ultimate failure of even their most noble of causes.  Here is a book that must have made a forceful impact when it was first published, for alongside the man other famous works of fiction dealing with WWI, this one tells a story all the more straight-forward, ignoring much of the political complexities and social disorder of the era and focusing on the effects of this on one man's broken and hopeless heart.  It is a thing of beauty, a fine example of a passionate opposition to war from one who has run out of justifications for fighting for human and individual freedom and who is barely able to function outside of another person's order.<br />Hemingway, never one of my favorite authors, has gone up unquestionably in my estimation and this particular experience will, if not get me to re-read previous books and stories I have read, will certainly inspire me to pick up something else sometime in the relatively nearby future.passionate opposition to war from one who has run out of justifications for fighting for human and individual freedom and who is barely able to function outside of another person's order.<br />Hemingway, never one of my favorite authors, has gone up unquestionably in my estimation and this particular experience will, if not get me to re-read previous books and stories I have read, will certainly inspire me to pick up something else sometime in the relatively nearby future.	2003-12-23
US	52506680	RLI61XCSVXP6D	0140183523	256512938	Kim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a mild but quite thorough story of initiation:	Kim is honestly a fun book.  This is not to say that there aren't lapses, tedious mirings that swirl around the overall ebullient excitment, but these stem more from an excess of the author's wordplay than from anything else.  The story is on the surface rather quaint: Orphaned British tyke grows up alone in India, has the internal wits and capacity to learn basic survival skills and has the ambition and sense of humor to make something of a name for himself.  From there he meets a 'holy man'--not one in the traditional sense of Western (or even Eastern) literature, but here is more of a true seeker, someone not pulled down by the conventions of organized religiousosity, but one moreso looking for a one-on-one understanding of God.  There is a great deal of subtle and transmogrified mythologizing--the traditional fables bowled over by reality, the high, idealistic hopes often stunted in birth by more rational and everyday life concerns.  Kim, street-smart and wise before his time, is fascinated by the holy man's honesty and feels some compelling need to accompany the man on his random journies.<br />Kim is the story of two journies, certainly the holy man's as well as Kim's own, the reckoning with cultural identity and the east/west clash in a time of subterfuge and war.  It is really a quite powerful story, dulled down at times by the author's seemingly ceaseless wonder, but for a tale marketed as being about a white European lost in the maze of turn-of-the-century India, there is a great deal that is very contemporary and an enormous amount of action and even betrayal.<br />Give it a go and read it to your kids.  There are many valuable life lessons Kipling makes an attempt to teach and many wrong paths he explains to us all about taking.	2003-12-20
US	52506680	R2EUBR6TLSCQDX	0940322153	135715379	A High Wind in Jamaica	Books	5	67	69	N	N	merciless	This is a wonderful book.  Short, swift and very bloody, Hughes tells a story of children as seperate from adult human nature and explores the ways in which children can cope with danger and catastrophe in the light of the usual adult nervous fumbling.  It is a psychological portrait, but is so much more as well.  An exciting action-adventure; an epic on nature and the sea; a ruthless story of pirates in the age of their decline; a terrifying masterwork detailing the lies all people must tell themselves in order to survive.<br />It is difficult to sum up exactly what is going on throughout the book, event leading to action leading to betrayal leading to another fun game.  In the end the book might even be read as a comedy--that of a pessimist attacking both human nature and the world--and I must admit that throughout several of the more harrowing scenes I found myself laughing in self-defense.<br />Great, great stuff, beautifully written and compelling.  I wouldn't presume to guess how any one individual might take it and that, to me, the unexpectedness of the whole thing, is what constitutes some of the greatest masterpieces.  Very highly recommended--	2003-12-20
US	52506680	R2JWQA1ICGHVXW	189381808X	931861639	Cleaning Up the Mess: Stories	Books	1	0	5	N	N	(a side note--)	I know absolutely nothing about this book.  Here I am, a browsing customer, and I inadvertantly stumble across a page with this undefined collection.  There is no advertising at all other than a gibbering, unlimitedly praiseful wash of two-bit cliches.  From the early comparison to other authors (the seeming randomness of the selection perhaps intending to emphasize the current author's range), to the ridiculously limiting reference to a mere 31-flavor fanchise, the author of the the book is clearly not included in the discussion of his art.<br />Now I was reading a review (or perhaps one of this guy's lists), so my guess is that some of our tastes are mutual, thus making me consider the possibility of picking up his book (currently ranked somewhere beyond 875,000 in the sales ratings).<br />There is little hope of this comment ever making it to the Amazon website at large, although there is little doubt that if it had surely the author and perhaps some well-intentioned straglers would stumble across this, one of them getting outraged enough to actually make a purchase.<br />Clean it up--give us a book description and perhaps I will hop on this train.  But for now there is only the gloom of a one-time aspiring writer trapped by the word-of-mouth of his either over generous or just plain stupid companion who thinks that rave Rave RAVE! is what's gonna sell some more copies of a product by somebody nobody's ever heard of--	2003-11-25
US	52506680	R1EX243N47DJYE	031230644X	372306096	The War Against the Terror Masters: Why It Happened. Where We Are Now. How We'll Win.	Books	4	8	26	N	N	Here's the trouble with extremism:	Ledeen is right about one thing: These folks are 'tyrants' and their greatest passion is to destroy a different way of life.  Of course our author hardly says it this way, focusing solely homeward, seeking to undermine a vindictive opinion with one equally vindictive and distructive one of his own: America is better than you.<br />We are better than you; Our God is Better Than Your God; Your way-of-life does not compare with the grandiose success of Our Idea of Making It In The World.  Now of course that may be true (I certainly believe it--what \\"self-indulgent\\" American wouldn't, living in a general luxury, internal economic issues and poverty notwithstanding in a broader, civilizationwise comparison  \\"The present generation have hit the civilization jackpot!\\" to subtextualize a statement another great patriot, Bill Mahar, made in his own hilarious, logically argued screed.  This is a very accurate statement, I believe, one that marvels at the ease of our comfort, and the freedom to mostly avoid a random, roving fear threatening to break in outside of our own family environment.<br />Most folks in the Middle East have got hard lives.  A history of 800 generations scaping the level of survival, madmen and billionaire tyrants laughing while turning a whole nation into their ideas of a pornographic pleasuredome; or worse--do-gooder foreigners who tell civilizations what the true way of living is; who is their True God, ultimately daring to insult the only clinging belief that has kept so many of these desperate people dreaming of a future.<br />Belief is the forerunner of reality.  Some leader of some nation makes their dreams come true with an imposed Rapture based on some Organized Gospel's nearing-the-end tale.  The author of this book, feeling insulted by the arrogance and presumption of a band of fanatical anarchists (for reforming civilization in a twinkling image is always an act of utter chaos, whether Wonderland Afterlife or the faintest hint of a coming Democracy), he has turned around and spat back in the radicals' faces: \\"Oh yeah?\\", he seems to be saying, breathing with a huff, stamping his feet in a growing rage, \\"Well I say we're gonna use our wealth and use all our opportunities and shove it down your throats and then rattle you until you submit, killing anyone who doesn't swear that our way is best for you--!\\"<br />Honestly, is that any way to talk to someone whom we have just forced our way into the problems of with the honest, initial intention of actually trying to help?  The Equal and Opposite fanaticism of the author is a very telling flaw, stating the hypocrisy of his argument and thereby making him nothing more than another raving fanatic, no matter the political persuasion.cracy), he has turned around and spat back in the radicals' faces: \\"Oh yeah?\\", he seems to be saying, breathing with a huff, stamping his feet in a growing rage, \\"Well I say we're gonna use our wealth and use all our opportunities and shove it down your throats and then rattle you until you submit, killing anyone who doesn't swear that our way is best for you--!\\"<br />Honestly, is that any way to talk to someone whom we have just forced our way into the problems of with the honest, initial intention of actually trying to help?  The Equal and Opposite fanaticism of the author is a very telling flaw, stating the hypocrisy of his argument and thereby making him nothing more than another raving fanatic, no matter the political persuasion.	2003-11-18
US	52506680	R18CFXT702QOSV	0140444173	727808181	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	history is the story of lies people told each other:	There is much to say about War and Peace.  Now of course most people know it to be the legendary, thick and therefore classic Russian work--something to do with something about a war and chances are relating to some sort of protest movement (perhaps) as well as a homefront resolution.  Now such historic recognition granted to a novel must imply that it provides for some theorhetical insight, something important no doubt stated over and over again--it's a classic, am I right?<br />Now such generalized presumption as to the majority's presumption relating to this ungodly heavy tome is of course a matter of opinion but the real point to be made is that War and Peace is an exciting and rather smooth and easy read (translations are generally undertaken by someone so confident of themselves in their understanding of the Russian language and also so awed by the task of re-imagining what they are convinced is another person's genius that no doubt any of them will be poetical in the right spots and only occasionally ponderous or dull in several of the sequences that might not attract an individual reader's interest--)<br />But the majority is striking and bold, written with a keen understanding of the differences in character and a more than patient willingness to explore every possible insight that might just be spreading around society.  It is a marvelous and powerful epic depicting Napolean at the head of the post-revolutionary French nation, ready to overthrow yet another king and equally prepared to remain in a constant battle.  Here we have Russia under the optimistic young Czar Nicholas, surrounded by contrary and contradictary viewpoints of so many frightened and arrogant men that the choices he makes have little to do with any of his personal ideas.  War and Peace is a book that picks apart the portrayed reality of the true act of humanity and proves to us that by inserting his well-realized fictional characters into the lives of the celebrated truth, a different view of humanity can be instantaneously seen.<br />War and Peace is about the glory of exploring humanity.  Of people at a perilous time and how society both shifts and tears itself apart and of how a common idea of an enemy in fact pulls nations and the entire world together in an effort to state what the majority might define as 'right'.  It deals with a troubling fallacy in our understanding of past events by relating exaggerated and familiar details of both home, the service, battle and the pleasures and pains of those falling in and out of love, and in these exchanges it seeks to prove that everyone takes the same thing very differently and that there is no absolute truth, not in the heart, not in the mind, not even in the soul.<br />There is an ongoing debate with both God and with man (and let us strip this text of Organized Faith and allow the grander glory of the very concept of a Universial Center to hover over these wars of men and beasts), a sometimes smug effort to disprove popular beliefs and an at times agonized inquiry into just what is it that everything means.<br />All this in only 1,455 pages and a story with lots of blood and guns and sex as well as some genuine evil, some moral collapse and a great deal of pettiness, bickering and hurting.  Needless to say, I loved my time spent reading War and Peace and, while I would never proclaim it 'The Greatest Thing I've Ever Read' (and who knows, chances are all our opinions differ radically, even if we felt it was appropriate to judge one single text higher than all of the others), I will declare this book 'among them' and do away with such historical sub-referencing as is required for making lists--	2003-09-02
US	52506680	R15I0JLWLL3YN2	0192834835	655554658	Don Quixote de la Mancha (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	silly, serious, funny, tragic, exciting, tedious and sad	I adored this book.  Very long, at times very slow, Don Quixote basically tells us that the noble delusions of a madman can create a far more satisfying example of life than the bleak, grounded and urgently seriously expectations of scholars, the religious and politically minded as well as the everyday drone who keeps a tight reign on what they will allow themselves to believe.<br />Don Quixote himself (as so many other reviewers either trumpet and proclaim or allow themselves to admit) is a flat out wonderful creation; a man so clearly out of his mind and yet one we cannot help but root for and hope to be never disuaded from his insanity, that he becomes something of an aspiration for all of us dreamers and imaginative souls.  Here is a man who believes on in good, in what is noble and decent (let us ignore the occasional lapses into seeming intolerance, taking the early 17th century into account and contrast that with both Don Quixote's treatment of the so-called scourge as well as the identity of the fictitious author of this work within the work) and in an essential love for all of humanity.  None of us--and that includes no one--can ever hope to even reflect the nobility of this grand character.  His truth, filled with wizards and monsters and dreams coming true, is more like a place we all wish we could be than the sad and head-wagging tragedy it might be in our own realities.  This book is a thing of beauty, a hope screaming in a bottomless well of scorned dreams that make up all of our lives and to condemn such flights of fancy and such obvious ranting lunacy makes one resemble the sad, defeated figure at the end of this book.  The lesson to be learned is that once we give up on our dreams, all that is left is death.<br />Recommended very highly.  The length should not intimidate or put one off as it is a quick-paced narrative filled with adventures and excitement and all told with a cool-headed satirical view.  Give it a chance and do not take anything like logistical errors and clear and obvious mistakes to heart as Cervantes was wise enough to catch himself later on and comment on all the misunderstandings that any academic and humorless mind might see fit to whine about and then tell that person they are a fool because they cannot relate to the Don's point of view.logistical errors and clear and obvious mistakes to heart as Cervantes was wise enough to catch himself later on and comment on all the misunderstandings that any academic and humorless mind might see fit to whine about and then tell that person they are a fool because they cannot relate to the Don's point of view.	2003-07-29
US	52506680	R2D6HVR20IO41I	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	4	6	6	N	N	how a boring book becomes great:	The Sheltering Sky is pretty dull.  The action and events of the story are mostly angst-based, anxiety and uncertainty providing much of the motive force that get its characters through their adventures.  After a wonderful start, complete with some passages of rather detailed psychological insight, we are taken along with these hardly exotic American strangers through lands that seem every bit as alien to us as they do to them.  And the tension of being a stranger in strange lands crosses the boundries of fiction and somehow invades us in our homes.<br />It is a slow to appreciate book (at least it was for me), with a desire for something to happen and a continuing frustration when nothing does.  Near the end of the novel I began the see the power in this particular approach: to put the reader literally there with them, seeing that the character's romanticized delusions and high-minded ideas about themselves are a large part of the reason they are all so unsuccessful in their endeavours.  And, what's worse, that the boredom we might experience when winding through the occasional meandering, exhaustive passages describing for pages on end the windswept sub-structures of the calcified desert sand is also what these characters are feeling, kind of a helplessness under the power of something they cannot comprehend, much less control.<br />Here is a book about being pushed to the limits.  It tells of the numerous personal failures a traveller might accomplish, of the ways in which they respond to crisis and of how ultimately futile all of this is if you're more interested in what a foreign land says about you than what it actually says about itself.<br />Beautifully written and only slashed down to four stars (on the four-and-a-half I give it) because anything under five has to get rounded down.  This was a book that I actually contemplated over when reaching this superficial decision, one that each of the main characters would no doubt have taken even longer to come to.	2003-07-10
US	52506680	R3RVF5HCPAKETB	0812967194	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	better than I'd expected . . .	It's easy to get overwhelmed by the joy an author takes in their subject.  Certainly Henry James had but one: The innocence and naiveity of young America getting seduced, transformed and all-together changed by its confrontation with an old world Europe that is more brutal and desperate than all the regularly criticized American vulgarities.  Now James was a consummate stylist--a brilliant writer of carefully diagrammed and constructed sentences and an, at times, of needless and excessively subtle growing menace.  This can make for an often turgid, frequently dull narrative--the work of a man far more interested in style than in the substance of anything actually going on in his shrouded characters' lives.<br />Fortunately The Wings of the Dove is a better example of James at work: a plot that is outlined from the very beginning and a consistant approach to his theme that hardly ever bogs down with over-explanation.  It is a good book, an at times even brilliant book, with a story that is clearly inevitable but with enough emphasis on its character's individual humanity to allow for disclosure of independant diversions.<br />I had little interest in this book when I started, my experience with James ruined in the past by the pretention of college professors and a sodden girth of contrary critical study, each promoting a specific agenda more concerned with condemning one view than with promoting another.  This book is no doubt open to just as furious a debate as, say, Portrait of a Lady or The Bostonians (although with such a tame story, as with all, that I have considerable doubt that enough of today's readers can be inspired to even care--), but it remains more focused on telling its story than in confusing the reader by expressing the confused frame of its characters' perceptions.<br />Better than average stuff from that still school of dialectitions who seem somehow so nervous and rigid when relating all those dark urges they know are buried underneath.	2003-07-04
US	52506680	R2ZUXSXU8I8IC	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a masculine take on Henry James	The Sun Also Rises is a rather low-key book.  Written in a terse, almost hard-boiled style, it tells the story of a wasted group of Americans and Brits living and caring for nothing in Europe after World War I.  The events, some of them rather traumatic, never seem to touch the core of these people thus giving that idea that, more all their self-worship and high-faulting ideas regarding man, nature and the way things ought to be, there is really nothing to them.<br />It is a good book, a swift read that carries you along through a series of aimless adventures that have a great deal of depth.  The exploration of what is missing in these people makes up the bulk of the story, events getting worse and worse while the characters remain stangely unaffected.  Events even seem to repeat themselves, again and again, in different circumstances and locales, something with even differing participants (although there is really no reason to tell them apart).  One gets the feeling, in later years, of a fushion of a Henry James morality tale crossed with the heartless indifference of Bret Easton Ellis' monsters--it really does go that far in explaining Hemingway's influence on the generations of writers that followed him in light of those dismissed that came before him.<br />It is a book that, for me, discounts a little of Hemingway's claim as 'a stylist that changed American writing forever' as I see much of Dashiell Hammett modified into something attempting to paint a picture in black and white instead of with a blood-splashed gray.  It truly is a fine book but one (if this critique can be regarded as anything) that leaves one a little uncertain of comment and that gives the impression that, perhaps, it may very well be forgotten three pages into the next book undertaken.	2003-07-04
US	52506680	R1ODUFL8Y28ICN	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	understanding . . .	Now we all know something about this book.  Upon publication Rushdie was condemned to die by certain secularist fundementalists, those domineering moral voices who would loudly proclaim what is and isn't right for other people to hear.  Now this sort of rhetoric has taken on numerous forms throughout the ages, from the pre-historic days when man was first learning to communicate and some opposition movement undertook its quest to form a new sort of leadership, through the crusades and the counter-crusades and every other political action that has disguised itself as biblical righteousness.  But the book, this book, this throughly imaginative novel that is more of a modern-day re-envisioning of the 1001 Nights taking place in the lives of two entirely modern men, is something all stripes of narrow-minded fanatics, from the furtherest caves of the right-wing to the hazy-clouded smog of the far left, should pay close attention to if they wish to understand a little more about themselves.<br />It becomes obvious why the fatwah was assigned, the harsh satiric voice of Rushdie going so far as to boldly thinnly veil who it is he's targetting.  Certain scenes can even be called prophetic, at least where the author is concerned, as the statements of characters and the actions of their rivals mirror the absurd reality that unexpectedly came into fruition.  Also there are bold questions asked about the reality of biblical narrative--and not just of the Koran.  There is a point when it is stated outright that from generation to generation whichever ruling political party it is that runs a portion of the world (and here things are intentionally non-specific, thus including all of us) that gospels will be manipulated and changed to benefit the strength of the party and to control the populations with a fear of disbelief.  Now this has been manifest in innumerable forms throughout the ages, from witch burnings to holocosts to the outright outlawing of a certain style of faith.  I have no doubt that Rushdie knew what he was in for with the publication of this book.  One must admire such an artist who puts the story first, even before his own personal well-being.<br />As far as the story goes--and what a story it is!--it is a magical and fascinating journey through the Arabian Nights and the possibilities of the real world of the Koran and into the jarring and utterly corrupted worlds of Western civilization.  I can think of very few books I would rate higher for sheer enjoyment, for the grandiose fun of the adventures that has at the same time provoked so much deep and troubling thought.<br />An absolutely wonderful book, thankfully destined to last because some prickly lunatics decided the time was ripe for a nationalistic book burning.  But all of this aside, and it is now impossible not to encounter this book without some sort of suspense as to what, exactly, sent the zealots over the top, The Satanic Verses has value for its own merits.  All the rest is merely public relations . . .have no doubt that Rushdie knew what he was in for with the publication of this book.  One must admire such an artist who puts the story first, even before his own personal well-being.<br />As far as the story goes--and what a story it is!--it is a magical and fascinating journey through the Arabian Nights and the possibilities of the real world of the Koran and into the jarring and utterly corrupted worlds of Western civilization.  I can think of very few books I would rate higher for sheer enjoyment, for the grandiose fun of the adventures that has at the same time provoked so much deep and troubling thought.<br />An absolutely wonderful book, thankfully destined to last because some prickly lunatics decided the time was ripe for a nationalistic book burning.  But all of this aside, and it is now impossible not to encounter this book without some sort of suspense as to what, exactly, sent the zealots over the top, The Satanic Verses has value for its own merits.  All the rest is merely public relations . . .	2003-06-08
US	52506680	R2GD93PUP08VIT	0449907643	357474860	Promiscuities: The Secret Struggle for Womanhood	Books	1	26	53	N	N	a very slight commentary:	Why do people care so much what other people think about them?  This book is more of a whine and a moaning lament on what the author imagines other people think about this and that and so-and-so.  I believe a true liberation of spirit would come from simply stating: Who cares what you think?	2003-06-03
US	52506680	R1LK089W0E7WU9	0670031720	28976631	Drop City	Books	5	0	2	N	N	thus far boyle's best novel	Now of course this opinion is subjective, but I believe it to be true.  I have been a rather huge fan of Boyle's going back quite some time.  Anyone familiar with him will readily acknowledge that he is a terrific short story writer, but Boyle's novels, while generally excellent, always seem to provide some problem or another, be it ostentation or an over-extention of a premise.  I know that as far as my own experiences with his novels I have always found myself excited by the idea of them but somehow disappointed in the end.  Specifically with World's End, Riven Rock and The Road to Wellville (the three best prior to this one) I had been very excited to undertake them but found something lacking, if not in character or plot, but in the overall tone of the presentation.  Here there was something deeper, a greater understanding of the characters having the adventures and perhaps a less aloof and condescending view of their actions.<br />Drop City is a lovely book, a story about the unpreparedness of hippie culture for the shock of really living.  The philosophies of any sort of radicalism (be it political or generally philosophical) are slowly chipped away at and undermined and what is left is the confusion of a person desperate to belong to something but confronted with the fact that there is more to being alive.  Survival, eventually, outweighs every generous inclination and taking such woefully unprepared people and plopping them into the minus forty degree winter of the far reaches of the Alaskan wilderness gives Boyle an opportunity to explore the sincerity of basic young party animals on a proclaimed quest to 'live off the land'.  There are several surprises in this story and the usual satiric tone is more subdued, the struggles and the drama of having nowhere else to go infusing this story with a deeper understanding of humanity than anything I have previously read by Boyle.<br />A wonderful novel that makes a rather apolitical statement about the fusion of everyday life and political activism and a haunting and powerful family drama about life on the edge of civilization.eryday life and political activism and a haunting and powerful family drama about life on the edge of civilization.	2003-05-21
US	52506680	R89XKL3KJZIRE	0486292738	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	anti-anti-everything:	Considering the topic of this book, I feel it necessary to discuss some of the stated perceptions regarding it:<br />--Apparently some people believe this a children's book, sort of like the cutesy, toned down puppet shows that have passed for adaptations.  A question of no doubt: This book was intended as an attack.<br />  I see in Swift something like an anarchistic mind--a man so revolted by every tribal persuation that passes for religion or for politics (often equally consumed, the two supposedly seperate ideas fused and bunched together, every contradiction in tact--!) and yet so disillusioned with every so-called 'independent movement', (be they political, social, or that stale haven of the two of them: Someone's brand new church--)that really all the poor man could see left was No hope--<br />  Whether this is a lesson for children, whether it's appropriate to allow them to see all of the horrors and the insanity of our secualarized community filled with warring faiths and the greed and the snivelling of a competitive open party system, this is for the parent(s) to judge.  If nothing else Gulliver's travels is a shattering portrait of a wide-ranging variety of communities all against both each other and themselves, all living together in a community defined by dicisiveness.<br />  Other comments I saw were purely academic: the charts and the lists, the textbook schemata of some condescending mind seeming to boast that they 'get it', when all that they really come across as having gotten is someone else's rather passionless point of view.  The quoting of others, the application of philosophies that have today become so common place towards human understanding that these cyrpto-psycholo-intellectualticians undermine Mr. Swift (not to meant pre-date themselves in guess of who represents whom) in their praise, giving the man no credit for intuitive insight.  Certain people rank this book as the 'best ever', or--worse yet!--as the compartmentilized 'best SATIRE ever'.  Now surely this book is a work of the satiric art.  To put it a better way: the whole present concept of satiric intent would not exist without the pulsing heart of Jonathan Swift's works.  But to apply a ranking to something that can only be taken subjectively is meaningless.<br />  Swift was a man truly without fear.  In an age when people could be excommunicated and possibly executed for making fun of those in power, this angry monk scribbled out bitter complaints about the self-serving absurdity of nearly everyone in power.  Then, to judge in all fairness, he turns the blame on the victims, telling them that they don't have to take it, that after a while there is no one left to blame for their suffering but themselves.  This satire is all-inclusive and can therefore not be conceived with an agenda.  It is poking fun.  It is the narrative of progressive exaggeration.  It is a masterpiece--<br />  Now of course we all need to justify our opinions by naming and accepting who or what we represent, but Swift acknowledges that this is just opinion, the one sacred thing to all of mankind.  We create our own reality by applying our beliefs to our surroundings  And if the whole world is out to get you, ultimately, you must be doing something terribly wrong to be so hated.<br />  I urge you--all of you, even those who much prefer an outlook able to provide for happy endings--read Gulliver's Travels.  Take your time.  And see who you are, taken to the logical extremes relating to your religious, political and community affiliations.  And then laugh at the folly of the individual trapped in this world.ver'.  Now surely this book is a work of the satiric art.  To put it a better way: the whole present concept of satiric intent would not exist without the pulsing heart of Jonathan Swift's works.  But to apply a ranking to something that can only be taken subjectively is meaningless.<br />  Swift was a man truly without fear.  In an age when people could be excommunicated and possibly executed for making fun of those in power, this angry monk scribbled out bitter complaints about the self-serving absurdity of nearly everyone in power.  Then, to judge in all fairness, he turns the blame on the victims, telling them that they don't have to take it, that after a while there is no one left to blame for their suffering but themselves.  This satire is all-inclusive and can therefore not be conceived with an agenda.  It is poking fun.  It is the narrative of progressive exaggeration.  It is a masterpiece--<br />  Now of course we all need to justify our opinions by naming and accepting who or what we represent, but Swift acknowledges that this is just opinion, the one sacred thing to all of mankind.  We create our own reality by applying our beliefs to our surroundings  And if the whole world is out to get you, ultimately, you must be doing something terribly wrong to be so hated.<br />  I urge you--all of you, even those who much prefer an outlook able to provide for happy endings--read Gulliver's Travels.  Take your time.  And see who you are, taken to the logical extremes relating to your religious, political and community affiliations.  And then laugh at the folly of the individual trapped in this world.	2003-05-10
US	52506680	R1SB1VN7HU4PSX	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	15	21	N	N	one cannot help but be impressed . . . (incommunicado--)	I want you to decide for yourself.  Ulysses, to some the masterpiece of all 20th century works, a glorious, sun-ravaged inspiring that is open to all nooks and encompasses all passion.  Others call it ludicrious, pompous and dull; overlong; a frustrating exercise in pieceing together symbols.  I want you to look over some of the other reviews and see for yourself the division between the pros and the cons; the academic justifications and the confused, ennerverated whining.  The fans overpraise with unspeakable delight: believing themselves in the know--a fan of another person's excellence, a seer of all there is to know.  You can scan the pages and glean all sorts of terminology, from the label of 'modernism' to the execution of 'stream-of-consciousness' (two indescribible approaches that cannot be so singularly defined as to explain just what, exactly, is going on).  There are references to other experts' reviews, and the almost outraged frustration with which it is bespoken tells the person who couldn't get into it that somebody else out there has written about all the things you didn't like in the book and therefore it must be brilliance.  The haters are less uniform in their scorn, although most of them summarize 'it didn't make any sense' in one form or another.  There are rat-tat-tats of 'boring(s)' and machine gun slogans writing off this unquestionably influencial opus as something not even worthy of remembering.<br /><br />Me?  I fall less in the middle and more to the side of scorn.  It is a techically dazzlingly display--a rip-roar of English-Latin-Gallic with the cantor on fire and the rhythm in flames.  Boom-boom-boom goes the glory of this lover of language who plays and who plays and who plays--trickling insight with the tickle of a feather and bringing the house down with a terse yet finely tuned phrase . . .<br /><br />The biggest problem is the story--a legitimate babble of voices talking over one another with a transformative center that can't keep anyone focused on what any of the characters is actually saying (the characters notice this too).  The dialogue goes on for pages--twenty--fifty page stretches!--where no one seems to have the interest or attention span enough to keep things settled for a moment to even decide if any of them know what they're talking about.  The topics shift abruptly--aloofly, it would seem--and the range of all of their interests is predictably limited.  I can respect (and even admire) the effort to invoke this mindless clamor of Babel, and appreciate the consistancy that can redeem by none of them ever learning anything, but the end result is a story that no one can follow unless they had written it themselves.<br /><br />Ulysses is a book Joyce wrote for himself.  No doubt it was joy--an endless experimentation from a frustrated (and rather pompous) author who finally felt justified at the publication of his previous two books.  Ulysses, to me, reads as more of a show-off work.  A man with great genius who wanted to prove to everyone just how great he could be.  The problem is that he was boasting to himself.  Here is a book about me me me!  All passing to 'naturalism' or the 'realistic aspect' related in numerous grinding scences, are valid, certainly, but merely another label that cannot begin to describe the monster Joyce created here.<br /><br />In the end, an endlessly unpleasurable read that causes one to stop and think often, some of that time about setting the book aside and reading something better--on what any of the characters is actually saying (the characters notice this too).  The dialogue goes on for pages--twenty--fifty page stretches!--where no one seems to have the interest or attention span enough to keep things settled for a moment to even decide if any of them know what they're talking about.  The topics shift abruptly--aloofly, it would seem--and the range of all of their interests is predictably limited.  I can respect (and even admire) the effort to invoke this mindless clamor of Babel, and appreciate the consistancy that can redeem by none of them ever learning anything, but the end result is a story that no one can follow unless they had written it themselves.    Ulysses is a book Joyce wrote for himself.  No doubt it was joy--an endless experimentation from a frustrated (and rather pompous) author who finally felt justified at the publication of his previous two books.  Ulysses, to me, reads as more of a show-off work.  A man with great genius who wanted to prove to everyone just how great he could be.  The problem is that he was boasting to himself.  Here is a book about me me me!  All passing to 'naturalism' or the 'realistic aspect' related in numerous grinding scences, are valid, certainly, but merely another label that cannot begin to describe the monster Joyce created here.    In the end, an endlessly unpleasurable read that causes one to stop and think often, some of that time about setting the book aside and reading something better--	2003-03-08
US	52506680	R1PO7Z1JOHVK9K	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a grim, stark, hilarious book	Toss out all the high-faulting chatter on 'modernism' and 'symbiology' and other meaningless semantics academics use to justify their own misunderstandings.  All that really serves to do is to stun an author's humanity into intellectual encryptions that serve only to bring their originality down to the presumed levels of the student who wishes to generalize all style into an accessible genre.  No, Faulkner was more than a contributor to some mechinized stylistic that was rampaging through the imitators, but a brazen and unique story-teller who was interested in individual perspectives (of his characters and, more to the point I am making, of his readers as well . . .)<br />As I Lay Dying, I believe, surpasses The Sound and the Fury in this approach, taking a far more exciting premise and spreading it out into the minds of every character who rambles along to form an opinion on what and why the Burden family is doing what they're doing.  While The Sound and the Fury was a dense, often confusing piece (trying spending 80 pages in the winding maze of a not just retarded but deranged character's mind and, no matter how impressed with the reality of the words, it becomes increasingly difficult to understand anything, contradictions with the other character's thoughts notwithstanding), As I Lay Dying is very straight-forward, a complex attempt at 'high-literature' written as a low-brow, lower-class Southern crime story.<br />The book is at times unexpectedly moving and at other times horrifyingly funny with scenes you find yourself laughing at as much from discomfort and disgust as from the antics and absurdity being described.<br />My favorite of Faulkner's books (thus far, as I intend to bleed the well until I hate him), it was the first time I'd been more than just impressed and felt myself graduated into the realm of being something like a fan--	2002-11-24
US	52506680	RTQDU40Q6NYF0	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a vile story told with such style it becomes perfection	That is not enthusiastic enough.  Lolita, genuinely, is one of the very best books I have ever read.  From the very start, where words cascade like a violent leaf storm, the winds cluttering the world around and blocking out everything with falling debris, Lolita takes off and never ceases, the cunning and the absolute clarity of gorgeousness filing the words back down into the free flowing story so many people have grown to have varying opinions about.<br />For, if nothing else, Lolita is about language, about the power of words over action, of thought over reality and the admitted lunacy of the narrator makes his voice all the more compelling: a lucid madman giving free reign to the truth as he sees it regarding not just his past misdeeds, but the very meaning of his life itself.<br />There is nothing out of place in Lolita, a creepily intensifying and hilarious story that gets more and more urgent as the action grows increasingly numb (perhaps an invokation of Humbert's utter despair) and frequently too absurd to believe.  The coincidences that fitfully help point A get to point B are not, in the case of Lolita, a contrivance meant to speed the action along, but baffle poor Humbert certainly more than the lax reader peering voyueristically into his life as these ridiculous ordeals appear to have actually happened to him--or at least that's how his fevered brain remembers them.<br />This book proves a powerful point regarding individual human perception.  Perceptions of good, perceptions of evil, ideas of beauty and true love and neverending hatred are all variable, are all open to interpretation and any singular excuse one could employ (psychological, moral or otherwise) is just another generalization to explain away an opinion another doesn't happen to agree with--	2002-11-18
US	52506680	R1Q80LZ28797RM	0802137954	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	4	4	5	N	N	gorgeous and, ultimately, rather tedious	But nonetheless I go away with a high opinion of The Ginger Man.  For the first 150, 200 pages the rollicking adventures are a great deal of fun and told in a unique, very original style, more of a flourish of drunken pride than a tale to tell.  The events of the book aren't really necessiary to relate: self-absorbed rich kid who's honestly quite intelligent but such a lazy wastrel he imagines his charm will keep him functioning throughout life.  Take that and make Sebastian's charm manifest and you have a fine little read you can burn through quickly.<br />The real problem I encountered was that events seemed to keep repeating themselves.  Now this is not to say I am criticizing the character's inability to learn from his mistakes--no, it would be inconsistant if he did--but that after a while there is only so much tripe one can swallow and the antics turn stale--or flat in the case of this particular tale.  By the time Sebastian winds up in England to basically start all over again and pray for his father to die so he can have money to continue to do the same thing over and over and over and over and over and over again I frankly lost interest.<br />Again, the language of the book is wonderful, a glorious and inspired style that winds you around and around until you, the reader, begin to feel a little hung over.  In essence the story is a long drunken stupor with memories vague and reality no longer of issue in re-telling.	2002-10-28
US	52506680	R1V898S7JPKNL	0141186739	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	agonizing misery without pity	Of course there is self-pity, but too much of this amounts to contempt.  Studs Lonigan is a stark, murderous story of things going wrong and continuing to go wrong until life seems too hard and one is pushed to the limits of giving up.  What made this book even more powerful for me was that I didn't much care for it after about 70 pages.  The characters seemed cardboard, the dialogue is a frazzled series of cliches of punks trying to imitate tough guys in books and in movies and their own personalities don't seem to fit.  And it goes on like this, for 800 more pages.  But the change comes when you see these lapses for what they are: genuine lapses in the character's imaginations; an inability to be anything real, to have true thoughts or actual ideas other than trying to imitate people who never were (or, if they were, have become so mythologized as to be unrecognizable).<br />Studs is a shy, brooding boy with a head full of dreams and no conception of responsibility.  He wanders around waiting for something to happen to him yet being unable to initiate anything.  He passes through his life hoping things will improve.  They don't, nothing improves, life continues to get harder and harder and things grow worse and worse.  There are the prejudices, easy excuses for what went wrong that crop up when one refuses to blame themselves for their failures, but even in this Studs remains true, if not to himself, than to the expectations we have for him from the very start of the book.<br />A stark view of realism Studs Lonigan, I believe, outshines some of the more celebrated examples of this style such as An American Tragedy or Babbitt simply because nothing extraordinary ever happens to Studs.  He is a boring person, a complete failure who for the scant thirty years of his life never moves out of his parents' home, never pursues a career and never ceases to see himself as someone other than who he actually is.  He is a dreamer, sure; a romantic dreamer with the best of intentions and not a single idea in his head.  Constantly people are blathering their contrary opinions to Studs and he finds himself agreeing with everyone, waiting for someone to explain how things truly are.  And he continues to wait, continues to yearn all the while growing older and coming to realize that nothing he hopes for will ever come true.<br />The prose is lingo-heavy, filled with scattered phrases from the era in which it was written which adds greater verasimillitude to the situations.  The emotional intensity of the story builds progressively and I found myself growing increasingly moved by the multiplying disappointments and the ruin of everyone involved.  What comes as the sharpest stroke of the novel is that Studs, for all his failings, comes across as fundementally the most decent person in the world of the book.  He doesn't truly love or hate anything, only focuses his interest on people long enough to see how they fit in to his view of reality, but this is not so much from selfishness but from a need to be told how to live.  He joins in with hating blacks or Jews or Communists or anyone causing apparent trouble to any of his friends but also can turn around and sympathize with the plight of the underprivilaged and the down-on-their-luck.  He is a contradiction, fundamentally, as it is as a result of this, as a result of his timid acceptance of everything that happens, that keeps him in the same place he was when he was an ignorant child dreaming of being the toughest kid on the block.<br />A wonderful book that will leave me depressed for quite some time, no doubt.ntions and not a single idea in his head.  Constantly people are blathering their contrary opinions to Studs and he finds himself agreeing with everyone, waiting for someone to explain how things truly are.  And he continues to wait, continues to yearn all the while growing older and coming to realize that nothing he hopes for will ever come true.<br />The prose is lingo-heavy, filled with scattered phrases from the era in which it was written which adds greater verasimillitude to the situations.  The emotional intensity of the story builds progressively and I found myself growing increasingly moved by the multiplying disappointments and the ruin of everyone involved.  What comes as the sharpest stroke of the novel is that Studs, for all his failings, comes across as fundementally the most decent person in the world of the book.  He doesn't truly love or hate anything, only focuses his interest on people long enough to see how they fit in to his view of reality, but this is not so much from selfishness but from a need to be told how to live.  He joins in with hating blacks or Jews or Communists or anyone causing apparent trouble to any of his friends but also can turn around and sympathize with the plight of the underprivilaged and the down-on-their-luck.  He is a contradiction, fundamentally, as it is as a result of this, as a result of his timid acceptance of everything that happens, that keeps him in the same place he was when he was an ignorant child dreaming of being the toughest kid on the block.<br />A wonderful book that will leave me depressed for quite some time, no doubt.	2002-10-24
US	52506680	R24KT6E6A8RZ5T	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	an interesting scribble	Jack London was a wonderful sort of writer.  He was master of nothing, not of tone, nor of language, pacing, character or plot.  But he was honest, he was familiar with the world surrounding the actions of his cartoonish creations and he knew enough tricks to paste them into some genuinely exciting and vivid experiences.<br />The character of Buck is actually quite strong.  Who cares that its a dog--all criticism of the personification are pointless and all assumption of a dog's inability to function as such are superfluous in the telling of the story.  Too much has also been made of perceived philosophies, from Darwin and Nietzsche through the Communist doctrine of some and the fascistic impulses of others.  Sure, perhaps if one were to try hard enough to justify some linked meaning it could surely be derived, but the actions are in the moment and the ideas deal more with survival than with any encrypted motive for desiring to do so.  The story is what it is, harsh and frequently silly, enhanced by an enthusiasm of description and a consistant interest in the telling.<br />A pleasent book to read before bed when feeling bored and perhaps sullenly apathetic.  Three and a half stars rounded up because its violence is not tamed by the passing of a century since publication.	2002-09-08
US	52506680	R2AXZTVWRBTCF9	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	intense and powerful	Here's another book I once avoided, an arrogant young student impressed with my collection of bitter satires by bitter, younger writers who thought just as little of humanity as myself.  Surely my decision to drift through a test and a paper on other people's discussions (ranging from 'greatest book ever' to 'a tiring, endless bore')was appropriate at the time for my cynical inexperience had not yet adjusted me for the sheer force of humanity of this titanic struggle.<br />A story in pictures and abbreviated words, The Grapes of Wrath paints an honest vision of crushing defeat endured through hard times when visualized hopes were the only things required for living.  We are swept in to a duststorm, a cascade of brief apocaylpse that batters our eyes shut only to force them open to see what is going on beneath the howl of the wind.  This is what calamities cause and here is how man will always scramble for survival.<br />The world opens up and becomes filled with people, beginning with the solitary wandering of a just-released inmate ambiling through the dead, dried out land, to search for his family.  People join and surround Tom--later the Joads--and the dazed survivors all travel, bringing customs, and search the wide world for a new place to make a living.  Their dreams and ambitions mix and then expand, groups are formed, families split apart and multiply, the crush of the storm has infected the people and now they go forward and tear up even more of the land in the search for a home.<br />The book ends in the rain, all pain and dryness washed away into the mud, the dreams coming to an end, situations grown more desperate but at least temporarily endurable--the truth about where hope lay shining and glistening before them, lost in the bible or dreams of wealth or hopes for the future or the nucleus of a loving family surrounding them.  Something is planted in that rain, finally, the milk of human kindness mixing with the mud to burst forth flowers and dew and yet another new chance to make something out of survival.<br />It really is a wonderful story told with great wisdom, dignity and style.t another new chance to make something out of survival.<br />It really is a wonderful story told with great wisdom, dignity and style.	2002-09-06
US	52506680	R1006JBTWGFNTH	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	quite lovely . . .	Angle of Repose is a rather dull book.  The events are often detailed to the point of inertia and the particular focus of much of the narrative could honestly be said to appeal to a rather specialized audience . . .<br />This notwithstanding I absolutely adored this beautiful novel.  It is gorgeously written--gorgeously!--and describes the base encampments and the procedures for digging mines and irrigating fresh land with a painstaking, lovely composed sense of human understanding.  The characters begin as almost secondary concerns, people of mild interest and slightly extraordinary significance who faded into the dusk of America expanding weatward and were in fact consumed by the great glory that was beyond them.<br />Wallace Stegner can make you love the land--even a cynical urbanite (such as myself) and put you in place with the slowly building blocks of a union and a nation, taking it all apart piece by piece with loving slow-motion until the emotional pay-offs creep up on you, overwhelm you and plant you in the isolated depths of individual shame and regret, of guilt not to be forgiven and life soon-to-be-ending.<br />Stegner's writing puts me in mind of Peter Taylor, another regionalist with a gentle approach to gritty, sometimes brutal stories of selfhood and the effects of singular ambition on the periphery made up of all of us.<br />A wonderful reading experience, do not allow the slow, sometimes dripping pace of this wonderful novel to distract you from the interest in what you must somehow suspect might be coming.  It is also a terrific, satirical take on the bias and prejudice that historians and editors exhibit when compiling the details of someone else's life.	2002-08-21
US	52506680	R2MI2K6VU4HBOS	0375701966	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	4	2	6	N	N	a nicely written, uneventful episode	The characters are uninteresting or annoying and the delicately built pay-offs are mostly juvanile and obvious.  But this is not to say that The Moviegoer is a bad book.  It is genuine, sincere, a study of unimaginitive people in the years past the Southern gentry cliches who are in one sense or another trying to hold onto the ideas of a world that no doubt never existed.  The character of Kate, in particular, is irritating, one of those humorless, hyper-sensative morons who people for some reason pity and make a great fuss over with 'there, there(s)' and 'poor girl(s) . . .'  My hopes were that she actually would kill herself and give the other characters the motivation to stop walking around so tender-footed and in anticipation of what she might do or say.<br />The prose is very good, simple, rather nostalgic--perhaps overly polite, but it tells the story with ease and (again)obvious understatement and understanding while making too much of a fuss over philosophical and theological underpinnings that finally serve no purpose to the plot or characters and gently guide you along to the pre-ordained happy ending.  Recommended highly for those who like their angst on the tame side and their outcomes to be filled with warmth and easy resolutions.<br />Three-and-a-half stars rounded up because Percy is such a fine writer.	2002-07-29
US	52506680	RI0B3MKZ6NIBV	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a nimble, gentle comedy transformed by grueling horror	I'm reviewing a second reading of this book.  Fifteen or so years have gone by since I first picked it up with unreal expectations and a teenager's misunderstanding of many of the key ideas Vonnegut attempts to set forth.  The first time I was amused and occasionally moved by the poignancy, drama and rather offbeat satirical insight of aspects of life I couldn't yet hope to have a grasp on.  Now, this time, after a day and a half of plowing through this remarkable (and remarkably easy to read) novel I feel as though I have been touched to the very core of my being . . .<br />Now of course this praise is a bit high-faulting, based more on my mood at the time of the undertaking, but it is a powerful and educational experience nonetheless.  A story of time and key moments lived in jump-cut fragments, Slaughterhouse Five relates the key memorable moments in a man's life, a man so harrowed and scarred by irrational realization and recognition of the horrors of the world he lives in that he literally becomes 'trapped in time'.<br />Not so much a 'science-fiction' novel as a study of mental degeneration, Vonnegut tells the story of Billy Pilgram, a man who witnessed the greatest massacre in the history of warfare and lived through it to become a productive, happy and successful member of American society.  But he is haunted by the past and his witness has allowed him to not just to expect the worst from the future, but to accept it, to allow these events to crash down upon him (plane crash killing all but him, death of a wife, the increasing indifference and resentment of his children as he grows older, et cetera, ad infinitum).  The statement of 'time' as a concept lived all in the same moment, of life existing spontaneously in elliptical cycles, past merging with future and the present never truly mattering relates how desolately unhinged this victim of circumstance has become.  I do not believe that Billy has truthfully become unglued and randomly travels through time, back and forth, throughout his life, but that his life simply stopped at the bombing of Dresden and the shattered reflections and memories of his overwhelming terror and moral approbriation have haunted him throughout his life, so much so that the rest of his existence is spent waiting to die; simmering, forever experiencing the past as his life forms and decontructs in the present tense.  The addition of an alien society actually take the place of God, a once loyal concept that ceased to hold meaning for him.  These aliens have simply given him a new gospel to preach, a new understanding to base his life upon and, whether real or imaginary (like any conceptual 'higher power') they have a profound affect on his life.<br />It is a deep, very personal look (Vonnegut repeatedly refers to himself throughout the novel, opening with a very significant autobiographical chapter that outlines his own ideas on witnessing the massacre) and even goes so far as to include a fictional recreation of himself shuddering right there in the slaughterhouse beside all these products of his imagination, imagination, it seems, saving his own life.  For all its simplicity, for all its good-natured and often dark comedy, there is no laughter in this book.  There are smiles, there might be the occasional titter, but the ultimate effect, for me at least, was one of aching, heart-rending movement, stirring even my own black heart of pitilessness into a genuinely humane feeling of honest human empathy.<br />And the best part is, reading over several of the other reviews, is that it seems to affect each reader in a dicisively different manner . . .back and forth, throughout his life, but that his life simply stopped at the bombing of Dresden and the shattered reflections and memories of his overwhelming terror and moral approbriation have haunted him throughout his life, so much so that the rest of his existence is spent waiting to die; simmering, forever experiencing the past as his life forms and decontructs in the present tense.  The addition of an alien society actually take the place of God, a once loyal concept that ceased to hold meaning for him.  These aliens have simply given him a new gospel to preach, a new understanding to base his life upon and, whether real or imaginary (like any conceptual 'higher power') they have a profound affect on his life.<br />It is a deep, very personal look (Vonnegut repeatedly refers to himself throughout the novel, opening with a very significant autobiographical chapter that outlines his own ideas on witnessing the massacre) and even goes so far as to include a fictional recreation of himself shuddering right there in the slaughterhouse beside all these products of his imagination, imagination, it seems, saving his own life.  For all its simplicity, for all its good-natured and often dark comedy, there is no laughter in this book.  There are smiles, there might be the occasional titter, but the ultimate effect, for me at least, was one of aching, heart-rending movement, stirring even my own black heart of pitilessness into a genuinely humane feeling of honest human empathy.<br />And the best part is, reading over several of the other reviews, is that it seems to affect each reader in a dicisively different manner . . .	2002-07-26
US	52506680	R357BELP13HAPG	0385333641	580864553	From Here to Eternity	Books	5	12	14	N	N	an epic study of masculinity	The Army serves as microcosm in this novel--not a particularly original or inspiring technique--but the probing depth of the character study displays a profound understanding of human capacity for love, hatred, violence, cruelty and self-destruction . . .<br />Okay, the itemizing of theme and ordeal in this satisfyingly unpretentious work of art makes commentary like my ponderous opening as pointless and muddled as it comes across: a cold, barren critque of a book far too vast to write off so condescendingly.  From Here to Eternity tells a story of men in that very hotbed of macho cliches: the military on the eve of World War II.  All of your classic stereotypes are re-imagined: the hard-boiled individualist, the tough yet sensative sergeant, the drunken fools and lascivious pigs, the violent, self-doubting brutes, the high-faulting, arrogant officers and the long-suffering army wives and miltary brats--each one of these characters is either given birth to here or expanded and humanized so deeply that you cannot help but experience all their carnal lusts and hopeless longings right alongside them.<br />Taken back and pulled forward to the present one begins to see through the encrypted miltary codes and notices men of every walk of life wandering passionately through each situation, locked up inside their doubts and too proud to stop trying to become what they can never hope to be.  For all the history, for all the drama (and sometimes melodrama) of Jones' searing vision, the true picture of life he exhibits here is striking.  It is a massive portrayal of man under strain, trapped in jobs they are loyal to and love, but can never hope to get ahead at due to the snivelling incompetence of superiors or the selfish agendas of men so far out of their class and league that the very indivudual understanding the book so boldly expresses is not taken into their consideration.  Apparently such is Army life . . .<br />Jones wrote a masterpiece, a truly gargantuan book that deploys its rage at every target of masculine emotion, from the petty prejudices that are justified simply by living to the rainbow of dreams that we all know will never come true.  It exposes the lies that we tell ourselves when we need something to hope for and the outcome of such tragic delusions.<br />If there is one criticism to be made it relates to something that frankly helps to express certain situations more convincingly.  There are sometimes long, rambling, ultimately nonsensical passages of drunken joy and drunken loathing, written so convincingly drunkenly that the reader just knows that Jimmy was plastered, giggling no doubt over the sheer authenticity of his character's ambitions.  These are not necessarily poorly written scenes (nothing is poorly written in this book and neither is anything so achingly profound that you find yourself remembering one single line that defined your own understanding of some larger issue), but they are sometimes distracting, particularly when you are so caught up in the action that they occur around the 200th page you've read in a single sitting, mournfully flipping ahead to realize you're not even halfway through.<br />And yet the length is required, pouring more and more of the same thing over and over again until it is no longer a story but an epic of life being lived out before your eyes, telling you the reasons for living and the reasons for dying.  It is a prayer, ultimately, a blunt, harsh prayer for mankind that swoons its serande of mutual understanding in a blunt, harsh manner of impatience.  It will stay with you for a very long time . . .ploys its rage at every target of masculine emotion, from the petty prejudices that are justified simply by living to the rainbow of dreams that we all know will never come true.  It exposes the lies that we tell ourselves when we need something to hope for and the outcome of such tragic delusions.<br />If there is one criticism to be made it relates to something that frankly helps to express certain situations more convincingly.  There are sometimes long, rambling, ultimately nonsensical passages of drunken joy and drunken loathing, written so convincingly drunkenly that the reader just knows that Jimmy was plastered, giggling no doubt over the sheer authenticity of his character's ambitions.  These are not necessarily poorly written scenes (nothing is poorly written in this book and neither is anything so achingly profound that you find yourself remembering one single line that defined your own understanding of some larger issue), but they are sometimes distracting, particularly when you are so caught up in the action that they occur around the 200th page you've read in a single sitting, mournfully flipping ahead to realize you're not even halfway through.<br />And yet the length is required, pouring more and more of the same thing over and over again until it is no longer a story but an epic of life being lived out before your eyes, telling you the reasons for living and the reasons for dying.  It is a prayer, ultimately, a blunt, harsh prayer for mankind that swoons its serande of mutual understanding in a blunt, harsh manner of impatience.  It will stay with you for a very long time . . .	2002-07-23
US	52506680	R15GEUXHAQ5I3W	0312265050	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	9	11	N	N	formalized structure versus the individual	This appears to be the theme of Norman Mailer's writings.  Time and again we revisit this construct (although the points of view, as in this novel, are wide-ranging and diverse): The Executioner's Song (an individual stand taken for self-interest and justice against the rigid laws and dictates of the prison and legal systems), Harlot's Ghost (which has much in common with The Naked and The Dead, portraying a member of the establishment, in this case the CIA, battling his personal instincts and opinions versus the cluttered organization of internal government) and this book, Mailer's first, shoving all sorts of personalities into the Army at a time of war.<br />The book's action takes place in the moments of perception, the ideas that men at war have over the dull, teeming nights when they can't sleep and the chirp of a cricket can panic a man to shoot his machine gun or to reflect on how they resent being where they are.  They think of how things could be better, of how the mistakes of their lives have led them to this moment, of the possibilities for the present and the future, and we witness their reactions to all this selfish yearning.  They recall their pasts, their boyhood aspirations; they recall brief moments of happiness and reimagine their memories until even the worst things that have happened to them are recalled with the amber-coated sheen of romanticized fantasy.  We race through the endless tasks of ritual and anxiety, hear the resentments, breathe their endless dissatisfaction and can almost relate when a man who's just slit another man's throat thinks first 'what is the next thing I have to do?'<br />It is a powerful, passionate statement, a sort of grace Mailer rarely achieved later as his ambitions were realized and the brilliance of perception that was evident grew comfortable and condescending, more vexed by a need to be annoyed by another's lack of knowledge than aware that different minds see everything individually.  This behavior is even precursored in the characterizations of the divergently unique personalities of the officers and clerks and generals and gods that each person sees and presumes they know based on rank and the whispered rumors about what someone else of the same rank once might actually have said.<br />A war book, a great war book, like Tim O'Brien's Going After Cacciato, that gives the combatant and non-combatant alike a grave lesson in the dreams and realities of soldiers.  All contrary opinion aside, this is a towering achievement in human understanding . . .ursored in the characterizations of the divergently unique personalities of the officers and clerks and generals and gods that each person sees and presumes they know based on rank and the whispered rumors about what someone else of the same rank once might actually have said.<br />A war book, a great war book, like Tim O'Brien's Going After Cacciato, that gives the combatant and non-combatant alike a grave lesson in the dreams and realities of soldiers.  All contrary opinion aside, this is a towering achievement in human understanding . . .	2002-06-18
US	52506680	R95S6BBVOX9M4	1883011140	902631932	USA (The 42nd Parallel / 1919 / The Big Money)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Literally The Great American Novel	Now this is not to say that USA is relatively 'the best American Novel' (alas, it is only among them within the unique tapestry of Great American Writers), but when defining the concept as 'American Novel', what more could anyone aspire toward?<br />These three novels are brilliant seperately (in my college days I was asigned 1919 by itself in a course on 'the radical novel'; nevertheless I recall being immensely impressed), and yet seem even more overwhelming taken as a whole.  The structure provides a random consecutiveness--as in one long story chronicling the stages of life of numerous fully developed characters, the random swirl of existence buzzing in the text never content to stop introducing another.  At nearly 1300 pages (shortened immensely by a short-story detail sped up by experimental prose poetry and detailed biographical editorials on life and the times of the American world spinning around both character and reader from the turn of the 19th century until the economic collapse of 1929, as well as frequent, crudely effective illustrations that serve more as a break, as a magazine article complete with pictures) the quick pacing and exciting narrative will blaze you through to the end of each section, hungry to scrape in just a few more pages before the inevitability of unconsciousness.<br />The politics of the book are varied: clearly opinionated yet with a rational outlook that includes the validity of opposing belief.  As a result it comes across as remarkably open to human experience and the ways different people take the same things happening to them.  I found it endlessly fascinating and have annoyed several people (no doubt by this time including several of you)with endless, endless raves . . .<br />Okay--I don't take it quite as seriously as that, but more as a document of a time from as many possible angles as a human mind could presume about others.	2002-05-31
US	52506680	R10AHFDUG2XJG7	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	4	0	1	N	N	great story; a beautifully written propaganda effort	The introduction got me worried.  Here was a gorgeously realized essay that basically outright states that the effort of the book was to cause a change in society.  That is fine, I suppose, as a means to an end when a skilled writer takes up a cause and seeks to expose the world to his home truths, but in a novel, which historically needs a great story to sustain its relevance, such a nobel or ignobel (depending upon your persuation) goal might ruin a potentially thrilling narrative.<br />Parts one and two are marvelous; searing, insightful long passages of identity, understanding and crisis, wrecked by social considerations and two-way prejudices that force all scenes of life to become mutual misunderstandings.  The story is vivid and told with an uncommon force, growing and expanding in range and vocabulary as the situation tightens and all hope boils into steam and breaks up . . .<br />And then . . . part three.  Here is an attempt at justification, complicating the situation (most particularly in Bigger's mind) by imposing political explainations and making suggestions of possible reasons behind the acts of horror that frankly come across as vapid excuses.  And while humanizing the oppressed and the criminal in a nobel manner, giving insight into character and the personal anguish caused by shame, guilt and rage, the explainations also seek to excuse individuality by stating that people can never make choices and are only forced to live the lives they struggle to lead.  At the time this was written, just prior to WWII, many of the concerns were far more on the front line and opportunities weren't as plentiful for anyone.  The evolution of society has made Wright's powerful story more prophetic than valid.  The imposition of such a blaring interruption as a twenty-page lecture on the reasons the Socialists are right that ultimately seeks to exploit the cause of racism to justify its own denial of individual humanity is a tiresome, ponderous mistake that subtly undermines the psychological insight of everything that comes before.<br />It is a shame Wright seemed more moved by politics than the genuine passion and realities of his riveting character.  He claims otherwise in his introduction (which, frankly, contains some of the finest passages within the entire book), but he appears to have become distracted by partisan consideration when telling the story of someone who couldn't possibly care about his concerns, no matter how much we seek to pity him.dermines the psychological insight of everything that comes before.<br />It is a shame Wright seemed more moved by politics than the genuine passion and realities of his riveting character.  He claims otherwise in his introduction (which, frankly, contains some of the finest passages within the entire book), but he appears to have become distracted by partisan consideration when telling the story of someone who couldn't possibly care about his concerns, no matter how much we seek to pity him.	2002-04-30
US	52506680	R36GDUN2ZG9XH9	0451527674	115107087	Lord Jim (Signet Classics)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	a delicate picture of rough brutality	After reading this book (along with several other of Conrad's books) I am under the impression that Joseph Conrad may very well be my favorite author.  Here is another masterpiece, a deeply incisive study of character of the motivation and the ultimate failure of all high-minded ideals.  Granted my own personal world view falls directly in line with this realization and therefore prejudices me towards anything the man might write, but, when considering such a lofty title as 'favorite author' one must regard other aspects of the novelist's creation.  As with the others, Conrad wins by the power of his stories.<br />Lord Jim is my least favorite of the the four books I have read by Conrad.  The story is rather scattered: a righteous young man does something wrong that he holds himself far too accountable for and the public shame the action brought him exaggerates the reality of his failure and makes him believe the rumors swirling around about his so-called cowardice.  He spends the remainder of his life trying to reclaim his self-regard, mostly exaggerating his own importance in matters he hardly understands.  His goal is to liberate the primitive people of the jungle paradise he inadvertantly finds himself in (due to an effort to escape every particle of the world he once inhabited) and his once high-minded ideals and regard for himself lead him to allow those people to consider him almost a God.<br />Jim likes being a God and considers himself a just and fair one.  He treats everyone equally and gives to his people the knowledge of modern science and medicine as well as the everyday archetecture and understanding of trade that those primitive folks would otherwise be years from comprehending.<br />Of course everything ends in failure and misery and of course Jim's restored name will be returned to its demonic status, but the whole point of the novel seems to me that one can not escape their past.  Jim, for all his courage in the line of fire has tried to avoid all memory of the once shameful act of his former life and by doing so becomes destined to repeat his mistakes.<br />Lord Jim is far more expansive than the story it sets out to tell, ultimately giving a warning on the nature of history and general humanity that only a writer of Conrad's statue could hope to help us understand.<br />If there is a flaw it is not one to be taken literally.  Conrad was a master of structural experimentation and with Lord Jim he starts with a standard third person narrative to relate the background and personalities of his characters and then somehow merges this into a second person narrative of a man, years from the events he is relating, telling of the legend of Jim.  It is a brilliant innovation that starts off a little awkward and might lead to confusion in spots as the story verges into its most important parts under the uncertain guidence of a narrator who, for all his insight into others, seems unwilling to relate his personal relevence to the story he is relating.<br />Nevertheless (with a heartfelt refrain), one of the best books I have ever read.memory of the once shameful act of his former life and by doing so becomes destined to repeat his mistakes.<br />Lord Jim is far more expansive than the story it sets out to tell, ultimately giving a warning on the nature of history and general humanity that only a writer of Conrad's statue could hope to help us understand.<br />If there is a flaw it is not one to be taken literally.  Conrad was a master of structural experimentation and with Lord Jim he starts with a standard third person narrative to relate the background and personalities of his characters and then somehow merges this into a second person narrative of a man, years from the events he is relating, telling of the legend of Jim.  It is a brilliant innovation that starts off a little awkward and might lead to confusion in spots as the story verges into its most important parts under the uncertain guidence of a narrator who, for all his insight into others, seems unwilling to relate his personal relevence to the story he is relating.<br />Nevertheless (with a heartfelt refrain), one of the best books I have ever read.	2002-04-16
US	52506680	R2UPMXUDN4RMMD	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	4	2	6	N	N	tries too hard to be a masterpiece, thus imposing flaws	Now don't get me wrong: All The King's Men is a great book, a gorgeously, sumptuously written narrative of great interest and compelling action.  The problem lies in the utterly self-referencial nature of the narrator, which sometimes obscures the fascination of every other character save himself.  Of course this is meant to be part of the point of the book, but to me it just emphasizes my conviction that Warren tried too hard with this novel.  He had everything working but for some reason decided to blur the facts (perhaps as an intential obscuring of history) in the muddled numbness of someone who has distanced himself from his own life and relegated himself to an observer.<br />Second person narration is a difficult goal to maintain (one inevitably thinks of The Great Gatsby, helped out a great deal by its brief length) and Jack Burden ultimately comes across as a gloomy, arrogant, pompous jerk, so self-obsessed that the legitimicy of the tragedy and greatness of others is numbed, dragged down, trapped in the lowered expectations of his own world view.  This brash imposition of reality is to be commended--as highly praised as anything that has been highly praised in this book.  Jack is miserable and for good reason.  He'd never expected anything of anyone in his life and can be satisfied that no one can disappoint him (until the betrayal of a long since ended romance comes along, but I should be honest--this sub-plot contains most of the parts I found boring and 'self-reflective'--I guess I don't imagine liking the author personally very much--).<br />The prose, clearly, is confidently assured, a guy never struggling with style and language.  Even the characterizations of others is profound, dense with meaning and the full force of graphic realization.  But when he gets to himself, despite Jack's boasts to the contrary, he backs off and grows defensive, merely covering up, seeking not only to prove but to justify every wrong turn he's ever taken in his life.<br />I don't like Jack Burden.  I think I love this book . . .>I don't like Jack Burden.  I think I love this book . . .	2002-04-06
US	52506680	R14MELBEBX6KNL	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a spectacularly entertaining scandal sheet from the inside	There is no valid criticism I can make of I, Claudius.  Certainly it isn't the most beautifully written nor by far the most profound book I've read, but the density of its subject matter grabs you from the start and continues to build until you can't wait to read the sequal.  Here is ancient Rome told from a modern perspective (regardless of the 1934 publication date).  This is a fascinating book.<br />What the novel ultimately deals with is history, as told in the present for future generations and the perversions each subsequent generation amends to the past for political or self-glorifying reasons.  Claudius himself remains mostly aloof, never truly regarded as worthwhile but a member of the interior cabal nonetheless through the dark pains and curse of his bloodline.  Having been considered an imbecile since he was born two months pre-mature he is able to function mostly at will in his shadowy corner of anonymity.  And he stays there and watches, chronicling the horrifying goings on of his superiors, brothers and sisters and cousins and aunts--every member of his ruling family.  And the story he tells is meant to be the absolute final word in truth.<br />Of course the truth is also shaded by opinions, perspectives and the individual prejudices that makes the past into a variety of valid opinions and Claudius himself is fully aware of this.  This gives his story even more veracity as he turns his rigidly historical hindsight equally onto everyone, certainly unwilling to save himself from the reader's potential scorn.<br />A great, great book of historical imagination, world literature is enhanced by its lesson of the insincerity of all serious history.	2002-03-29
US	52506680	REQARBMW23J6Q	0679736379	385024829	Sophie's Choice	Books	5	4	9	N	N	coming-of-age melodrama becomes stirring work of art	William Styron is a beautiful writer.  The langauge of this book is diverse, an expanding pool of currents and dips and waves that all gets straight to the point with a rattling fierceness that draws you down the shimmering wave of the barren, heartless truth: It's a great novel.<br />History through the voice of a naive young Southerner in the Jewish part of post WWII Brooklyn and he's there to write the great American novel.  He sees and meets the people around him, all strange and overly chatty and everything seems somehow dipped with the darkness of secrets being told.  It doesn't matter what the people talk about: death, the holocost, religion, sex, general annopyances and hatred--everything comes down to the horrifying center of existence.  Or at least that's what our narrator is trying to learn to believe.<br />Then there's Sophie, the non-Jewish Pole who suffered horrendously in a concentration camp, pulled from her life of wealth, love and family (which she later found out was more of a plot than a romance) and forced into the life of people she'd been told were sub-human.  She holds the key dreadful secret our narrator wishes to discover and isn't truly one for talking about her past.<br />Then there's Nathan, a rich, crazy, angry young American Jew.  He missed the war and stayed at home growing bitter, defiant and resentful of not experiencing the trauma of people the wants to believe are his breathren.  He's grown radically smart and blathers on with drug-induced enthusiasm about triumphs he has solved in his head and hasn't yet gotten around to committing to righting the actual wrongs.  He blames Sophie, the non-Jew and his lover, for hijacking an experience rightfully belonging to himself.  He blames the narrator for being from the South and therefore having a geographical connection to more forms of bigotry and oppression (regardless of his uncertain but staunch and perhaps intentionally cliched left-wing pronouncements from time to time).  He blames other Jews for not being as militant as himself, the ostricized, banished Jew who can only feed off of other people's tragedies.<br />Take this mix and wrap it around a sometimes ridiculous soap-opera romantic entanglement and the result is Sophie's Choice.<br />Enjoy.other Jews for not being as militant as himself, the ostricized, banished Jew who can only feed off of other people's tragedies.<br />Take this mix and wrap it around a sometimes ridiculous soap-opera romantic entanglement and the result is Sophie's Choice.<br />Enjoy.	2002-03-21
US	52506680	R3MDOVZJ3EUFBO	082031661X	300765205	Tobacco Road: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a brooding black comedy on being poor	Erskine Caldwell has more in common with James M. Cain than John Steinbeck and this, by far his most famous book (he wrote an awful lot of them) is a vastly entertaining pulp novel about the worst of the wretched.<br />Things are so bad for this family that it has surpassed the epic tragedy of the under-privilaged 'farmer class' of the Depression and into the deserving squalor of hell reserved for the lazy, the ignorant and the spiteful.  The story begins with a well-rounded plot to steal a bag of turnips from a man everyone is trying to convince to marry one of the daughters--his much younger cousin.<br />Things do not improve and you'll find yourself growing to enjoy the increasing absurdity of the miserable things that happen, and enlightened by the consistant hopes and failures of each of the many characters.<br />Much better than I'd expected, I blazed through it in a workday and a half, just prior to taking a trip I had planned to read this book en route to.	2002-03-07
US	52506680	RJO9XGL9C41UG	0553213237	187732421	A Room with a View (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	a beautifully written, not very intesting drone	I didn't like this book.  Short, written as gorgeously as anything else Forster wrote, there just isn't anything worthwhile going on.<br />A comedy only because you laugh at how annoying everyone is, the story verges on outrage because nobody seems to matter.  Oh, sure, they care desperately about everyone and everything they're supposed to be involved with, but the characters are pompous, the resolutions are forced or indifferent, and I can't say I recall much of anything that actually happened shortly after completing the text.<br />Another thing to draw it down is the fact that I tended to think of other things while still reading this book.  Not while it was set aside, waiting to be vaguely experienced, but while it was in front of my eyes going on.<br />In spite of all this, three stars is accurate because sometimes Forster comes up with an accute anatomization of why these people act this way.  A stirring, psychological portrait of people I couldn't care less about.	2002-03-05
US	52506680	R4JVV7KRNER6E	0375707166	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas	Books	5	2	6	N	N	I can't--	Despite the tears, nobody ever says this thoughout this long, fascinating book.  A story of generations, of family dispute and disparity, A House For Mr. Biswas is a stirring, masterful dispiction of life going on.  It tells of one man's humble independance that he keeps private, not realizing how such subtle virtue affects those he comes in contact with.<br />Never dull, always anticipatory, one of the greatest books ever written--	2002-03-05
US	52506680	R3GNV31LO15OR9	0140153179	396357930	The Alexandria Quartet	Books	5	7	12	N	N	a spectacular sequence that will temporary obsess	Of the four books in this series you will finish realizing that you've read one.  Justine, the first, is my favorite, but that isn't really saying anything.<br />The story is visual and oddly cyclical, the same events being restated from confused, conflicting perspectives that keep changing their minds.  Basically there are love affairs, heightened by anxieties that sometimes lie outside of passion.  Here we have artists and diplomats and natives and religious fanatics all waiting to burst, all too important to set aside.<br />Everyone matters in the Alexandria Quartet and no one understands where anyone else is coming from.  This is a tense, rapid, confusing story about pinnicle moments and the guilt that follows.<br />Great stuff.  Take your time.	2002-03-05
US	52506680	R1Z6MCTEE4HV1J	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Here's the problem with icons:	You know what happens when something becomes too famous, too utterly successful that everyone has heard about it?  People stop caring, the significance that gave this book its importance grows boring, overused.  All the young writers who identified with this book keep re-telling the \\"Holden Caufield philosophy\\" because they stopped being individuals like their hero and sucked up something somebody else said.  Holden is too familiar.  We all know him.  What's gonna happen when somebody says 'Who cares?'<br /><br />Nevertheless The Catcher in the Rye is a wonderfully well-written and entertaining novel about a self-absorbed little punk who thinks he is--and probably is--smarter than everyone else.  But he's too young, too inexperienced, too unsure of himself to survive on his own.  He questions everything until nothing has an answer and increases his frustration until he's completely unable to do anything but dream, imagine he were something else--a protector.  He imagines he was somebody's savior.<br /><br />All subtextural religious nomenclature aside, this dream delves more deeply into the personality of the character, not some unattainable dream as the cynical and lacking in self-confidence narrator tries to tell you it is.  It is about someone frustrated because he is unable to change the world around him and a quest he already knows will end in failure of escaping himself and retransforming his life into something more profound.<br /><br />Yes, this is an extraordinarily powerful book, filled with the split cadences of lingo and slang to give you the feeling of having an actual conversation.<br /><br />And yet the problem of over-exposure cannot help but influence the outcome of experience.  I remember hearing teachers and older siblings rave about this book when I was eight or nine or ten years old and when I got around to being assigned it high school myself, I skipped it arrogantly and somehow got an 'A-' on the paper just by copying down the hearsay and over-emphasis other people gave to the ability of someone else's story to change your own life.  The fiction I submitted as my then analysis was lauded not because it was an accurate expression of opinion, but because it justified the teacher's own overwhelmed ideas regarding the novel's importance.<br /><br />It's a great book, truly.  Just don't get bogged down by canonization.the ability of someone else's story to change your own life.  The fiction I submitted as my then analysis was lauded not because it was an accurate expression of opinion, but because it justified the teacher's own overwhelmed ideas regarding the novel's importance.    It's a great book, truly.  Just don't get bogged down by canonization.	2002-03-03
US	52506680	R29NM6UCX5761Z	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	0	0	N	N	heavy, heavy--light, light	I don't wish to repeat other's already well-articulated praise on style and language and brilliance. The narrative flow and the story itself are confoundedly magnificent. Yes, I too love A Clockwork Orange.<br />Here is a story of free will versus society; a devastating critique onindividual human nature and an even harsher attack on the ultimately Fascist attitude of any organized system of justice.<br />In a mildly Science-Fiction-style plot we go forward to the parallel near future where politics have taken over ever aspect of human life. Even thoughts can be controlled and the punishment shall always fit the crime. We, the reader, are forced to choose sides between a violent, anarchist, sociopthic rapist-murder, and the oppressive State Government that will force the mind to suppress thoughts, to suppress all human desire in an effort to make certain that everyone will be safe in their homes, out-of-sight--<br />The arguments are beautifully placed and here, ten years after I've read it, the passion and power of the debate still lingers, fresh. (On a brief side-note in relation to Kubrick's wonderful film adaptation: I love Stanley Kubrick and A Clockwork Orange is, depending on my mood at the time, perhaps my favorite of his flicks; but the book diverges into even more decadent and intense realms, and forces one to actually experience the events in your mind, not transposed on a visual plate, and you experience the horror even more viscerally than the romanticized extravagence of the film)	2002-03-03
US	52506680	R2BKNC5X2E12QM	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	quite possibly the most entertaining book ever written	And yet it isn't Hammett's best (Check out Red Harvest, plot to many movies both high and low).  Here is a swift, brutal, cutting and cold mystery featuring truly heinous people doing truly awful things, all being watched and investigated by Sam Spade, a man hardly better than any of them.<br />If you've seen the movie you know the basic structure of the story and the film, while great, is unable to express the brass tacks interior monologues of the many characters who no matter what is happening are always plotting some form of betrayal.<br />Dashiell Hammett is certainly one of the great detective novelists (as I'm sure you're aware if you're actually still reading this review) and you'll blaze through this book about tough guys and ruthless villains and come away thinking you've read one of the finest novels you've ever read.  You'll find little argument to refute your initial entusiasm and it will stay with you, leading you to like the movie just a little less because of all the great things it left out and the rather inaccurate depiction of Spade.	2002-03-01
US	52506680	RAAVGNW3F1MD5	0679738991	445034729	The Wapshot Chronicle	Books	5	33	36	N	N	often overwhelming	I've got a thing for John Cheever.  Surely one of the best American authors of the 20th century, Cheever has written several books that I've never stopped raving about (see the following for confimation . . .)<br />The Wapshot Chronicle is essentially more of the same, more of the short story magic that established Cheever as what he was (and at least to me shall always remain): a magnificent story-teller and stylist who weaved brutal honesty into his poetic tales of tragedy and disillusion.  There were passages--pages--of this book that I turned back to and reread not out of confusion or misunderstanding of identity, but simply for their beauty, for the firm, strong images that glimmered in the splitting of the waves crashing in my brain.  I couldn't get it out of my mind for a while after reading which caused the next thing I read to suffer in comparison.<br />Absolutely one of the best books I have ever read.	2002-03-01
US	52506680	RMY7P5G0EIO9M	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	4	4	5	N	N	I kept wanting to hate this book	But I couldn't.  There is something very charming about such blunt, spare-no-feelings honesty.  Tropic of Cancer is a brave, moving book that sweeps you in and carries you along through numerous ghoulish, unpleasent and ultimately hilarious episodes of wayward life in France in the late 1920s/early 1930s.  These are experiences you would generally never have (regardless of futile efforts to try and recreate them).  Here is a story of promiscuous sex, over-indulgence, vice, sin, love, hatred, art and any other obsession that temporarily occupies Miller's mind.  It's really a great deal of fun.<br />The writing is sometimes stunning, although at times it seems a bit too self-consciously hard-boiled and the usual monologue quality of the narrative scatters a little, becoming overly literary and therefore undermining to the otherwise spectacular consistancy of the confession.<br /><br />Four and a half stars, rounded down because once upon a time I wanted to hate it . . .	2002-02-28
US	52506680	R3QOYOP910T6Q4	0140188134	359278790	The Rainbow: Cambridge Lawrence Edition (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	7	13	N	N	a certainly beautiful, underwhelming novel	Or call it missed opportunity.  Now The Rainbow is, of course, a glorious masterpiece and blah blah blah, mostly as a result of its 'passion and intensity of vision'.(or quote any Lawrence critic particularly in love with what someone else said about him) If you are at all familiar with the author its likely you'll know what to expect: gorgeous, twisting passages of intense interior monologue where every question is asked and an uncomfortable number are answered.  There is no space for lies or delusion as a nobel and frequently brutal honesty must underlie any such personal thoughts.<br />The story is actually often rather interesting, particularly the earliest section, the beginnings of this family and the comparitive subdued nature of their once scandalous passion.  I found myself most interested by the patriarch and matriarch and felt the children's defiance and mistakes were inevitable.  The problem is that this theme is hammered home in such an ongoing blaze of fury that the very similarities of each subsequent generation becomes a superfluous point thereby rendering the whole construction numb.<br />By all accounts a worthwhile reading experience, those of a mind for(or with tastes running to) passionate inquiry into the nature of life might quite possibly love this book.	2002-02-28
US	52506680	R3TTT1JEQSVZWA	0451526821	559841412	Main Street (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a pinprick story of suburban or small town conformity	This book is better than four stars but remains beneath because the story is at times uninteresting.  But the story is important nonetheless and it has a lingering and lasting relevence to community life at whatever time one might be living.<br />Here is the tale of a bright, ambitious young girl with a clear mind and higher, more 'artistic' thoughts and the grumblings of a society that doesn't have enough respect for its own diverse individuality to exert the energy to focus on anything other than getting by and not have bad rumors spread about them.  We see that even this becomes impossible as others will always find something suspicious in the most ostentatious of decent veneers.<br />Main Street is a story of hypocrisy and disillusion, a brutally realistic tale of other people's misguided envy and their sense of inadequecy infecting and influencing even the purest of hearts.<br />It's pretty grim reading and the frequent tedium of the sometimes excessive visceral detail helps to impart a sense of the numbness and monotiny poor Carol must suffer with daily.	2002-02-28
US	52506680	R1R0ZRC3SS3YZ3	0451524160	283328506	The Secret Agent (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	withering	Surely one of the greatest books I've ever read, The Secret Agent is a horrifying, oppressively bleak, vastly entertainly masterpiece that sets out to explain the absurdity of any form of political fanaticism.  No one is justified in this novel and the pathetic results of the high-minded ideals of every character in the book underlines the nature of both enforced order and violent anarchy.<br /><br />For all the horror and intense drama of this novel is reads to me as somehow hilariously funny.  At the moment when the worst of all possible things happens (leading to the worst of all possible results for everyone) I actually laughed out loud not just in shock but in my own sense of applied justice (a disquieting reaction that made me realize I was actually no better than any of the depicted grotesques, at least as far as allowing my personal sense of morality to pre-judge the humanity (or lack thereof) of anyone.<br /><br />To give away some of the twists and turns of the plot (despite the Dostoyevskian tone of hopeless doom, this is truly a taut and absorbing spy novel) would be a disservice and so I shall leave off here with the highest of recommendations.	2002-02-27
US	52506680	R212L7LMK3SWVZ	014018371X	751067545	Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	tragedy becomes comedy	There is a point in Nostromo where everything has gone so terribly wrong for everyone that you stop feeling sorry for them.  This is not a bad thing.  This novel is a lesson of when tragedy becomes pathetic and you find yourself laughing at the situations of someone even worse off than yourself.<br />This is a bleak and bitter story of corruption and revolutionaries and the greed and self-interest involved in creating society.  Conrad here displays the sorrow of what happens when people of differing faiths (religious, political, social and intellectual) fall out of touch and stop believing in anything.  Here's what happens when greed devours itself and there is nothing left to strive for beyond complete self-obsession.<br />Another one of the 'greatest books I've ever read' . . .	2002-02-27
US	52506680	R2DGJXI0S74IWH	1564781313	401276288	Point Counter Point (British Literature)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	a pompous and irritating book that somehow draws you in	After 100 pages I hated Point Counter Point.  It was pretty nicely written, witty and urbane and filled with mildly amusing ponderings of people who like to show off how smart they imagine themselves to be.  After the first 100 pages my vague recollection of reading Brave New World sometime years and years ago made my already underwhelming opinion nosedive. I hated the characters: hated their smug, self-righteous, utterly condescending self-importance and I was annoyed with Huxley for creating them.<br />But I kept going, for an as yet uncertain reason compelled to at least finish it.  And nothing changes . . .<br />The turnaround comes in the slow, very subtle humanizing of these pompous jerks followed by a rapid and all-consuming anatomization of the nuance and flow of their personalities.  Regardless of their lofty identities and superior postures, these people are flaked away, pulled apart, itemized and discarded with an ambitious and often roaring insight.<br />I suspect many of Huxley's other novels resemble this slow-to-appreciate mumble of ramblings, often in dispute, of various social issues as seen by people who hardly care.  Having ventured this one I might wish to avoid many of the others.  Regardless of this eventual respect I still find myself irritated.  Call it three-and-a-half, rounded up because it ends rather cruelly.	2002-02-27
US	52506680	R3NC3SDQKESZ5W	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a good novel--has lost the power to influence the world	Lord of the Flies is generally read by students new to high school being slammed in the face with the shorter works of English that have been revered by academics.  Such an introduction will often sour the reader's interest; deflate their desire to pursue a discourse with the fragile reality the author has set up.  To those who enjoyed it the text can sometimes grow to take on a biblical veracity, spawning a cult of appreciation by the more pretentious of the youngsters who feel as though they'd accomplished something by getting something out of it.  This is the perception of Lord of the Flies today . . .<br /><br />When I was assigned to read this book in school for some reason I decided to skip it.  Who cares, I think I got a B on the test, and we moved on to Of Mice and Men or Death of A Salesman.  Nevertheless, I found myself searching out this book again years into the future, possibly inquiring into the past over something I felt I'd missed.<br /><br />The result?  A strong, swift book, sometimes beautifully written.  On occasion a point is overexplained into the discussions and mired by the efforts of young boys speaking with an Oxford Graduate Student dialect.  In other words, it sometimes gets pretty dull.  The unreality of their speech is irrelevent, mostly, if only because Golding usually uses this technique to explain much of what is going on.  It is a fine book among a long list of fine books about isolation, exile, lonliness, acceptance, faith, hope and civilization.  If the book hadn't been so overwhelmingly sub-referenced I likely would have never picked it up and missed out on an enjoyable and profound--but perhaps getting tired as you begin to age--interesting little book.	2002-02-22
US	52506680	RRG93GSQGO1QV	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a gloomy tale on the expiation of sin	Graham Greene is one of the most entertaining writers I have ever read.  So why is it that among my favorite of his books ranks this sodden and eventless wreck?<br />Because the smallness of the events is major; the insight into the mind and the problems therein is revelationary and the pain and confusion of the characters is truly affecting.  Nobody is bad in this book; evil comes in a far more natural and random way and the only problems people cause is by talking or drinking just a little too much.  Of course the world is a mess: the stirrings of war in Europe and the constant pressures of society that demands you give your life to someone else's order.  Scobie is an honest and loyal man, one of the faceless ambassadors most people have forgotten about, and he lives his life in exhausted comfort with a nagging wife he'd long ago lost affection for.  When the exotic romance of a rescue gives him a moment of glory all of his buried ambition rebells against the tightly ordered character he had imposed upon himself.  Add to the fact that as a born-again Catholic he is still very passionate about prayer and the literalness of The Word.<br />Things go quitely wrong and then we close our eyes and feel for the tragedy of such wayward and innocent people.	2002-02-20
US	52506680	RGUX1WHMLQAA3	0440330076	421670874	Go Tell It on the Mountain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a harsh young book brimming with confidence	I liked this book much more than anticipated.  My initial expectation was a nicely written and overly poetic jumble about religion and identity crisis, probably a little too sentimental.<br />Half right--Go Tell It On the Mountain is a powerful study of boyhood and parental expectation as well as the glories and the horror of religious conviction.  It's more of a song, really, with dense, rhythmic prose that sings its song in a ramble that comes across almost like preaching.  The effect is intended I would imagine, and produces results that are frequently stirring.<br />This book transcends any mundane consideration of justice or political justification and breathes out a far more individualistically human story.  A very quick read--	2002-02-20
US	52506680	R3M24U2I4W2YCW	0316926051	253013485	A Handful of Dust	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a gleefully vicious and indifferent book	I wanted to give it five stars.  It might as well be.  Why not?  No good reason . . .<br />Here is a story of atrocious things happening to horrible people.  It is cleverly written and the characters certainly give you an in depth idea of who they are and what they believe in.  You can't quite come to hate them but one must admit to enjoying watching them suffer.  I found this book similar in theme if not in tone to the somber Appointment in Samarraha by John O'Hara, but the final pitch of this novel is rather cheerful.  It seems as though Waugh himself was enjoying their suffering until he finally got so fed up and annoyed with them that he exiles them to their appropriate hells, be it a repetition of cycles or an absurdist nightmare that becomes ultimately rather numbing.<br />I found the final affect on me to be really quite similar.  It is a very entertaining book . . .	2002-02-19
US	52506680	R1HLMU8XAZY5GI	0679722556	966622039	Howards End	Books	4	2	8	N	N	a pretty, often dull, stale little tragedy	Perhaps that is too harsh, for Howard's End truly is a beautiful book.  It is sharp and cunning and written with craft and texture in unearthing the suppressed emotions of its characters.  Gorgeously written, simmering throughout with a subtle and witty prose, sometimes briefly alit with the whoosh of a roaring epiphiny.  The grace of the character study is a worthwhile experience . . .<br />But the story . . . So have ya heard this one before?  Some guy wants to get married but he's already married or he's engaged to another he's fallen out of love with.  The details just don't matter and the constant refrain of the character's endless longing is quiet acceptence complicated by questioning questioning guestioning.  The interactions are trivial and often uninteresting, propelled by the unspoken commentary, subdued by the spoken words amounting mostly to rejections.  This premise is at times intriguing, coaxed into narrative by the awareness of each of the speakers, but then dims out as they try to change the subject, leaving forever buried that one shimmering moment of light.<br />This is the refrain of this novel, for better or for worse--	2002-02-04
US	52506680	R3T1NEY2YU38IA	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	1	N	N	a brief epic	For those without much time to spare might I suggest Animal Farm, a vicious little satire on the pros and cons of government and society.  As always Orwell has a lascerating wit and a smooth narrative pacing that makes everything important and nothing dull.  Despite the short length there is a great deal of information imparted in glowing, shivering language, simple and yet dignified; chatty and yet sometimes overwhelmingly lofty.  And yet the pace of the story will have you racing through it like a 600 page crime novel where everything just keeps getting uglier.  Read it in a day, over a weekend, during quiet time on a several day beach vacation.<br />The metaphors aside, this book relates a profound understanding of the very human motives that make community government always aimed toward personal corruption.	2002-01-26
US	52506680	R2FOSHNXCKMMZE	0679722181	385796084	The Good Soldier	Books	5	8	10	N	N	the essence of natural story-telling	It's like hearing a story from someone still workin' out the details, ya know?  Something happened and so-and-so said or did what and all of the sudden . . . wait, let me think about this . . . okay--No!  It went like this!--this is the start of this marvelous, tragic novel, certainly more elegent in language, but the innovative narrative style gives a similar emphasis on someone figuring out the past through relfection.  It tells a consistantly mournful story, the doom not so much shadowing the action as we are given the details of the outcomes pretty early on.  But the narrator's efforts at understanding interfere with a course of events and sometimes forces him to rearrange them to capture the ideas he's sudden had.<br />This book has just about everything that I like: a unique perspective, a dark sense of humor, extraordinarily well-developed characters and an inescapable misery percolating the text throughout, keeping emotions on edge and perception fragile.  It is a glorous masterpiece . . .	2002-01-14
US	52506680	R29GFOE9990HL	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	4	2	3	N	N	elegent	This is an accomplished novel.  Beautifully written and interesting, it portrays a very believable world of people who quite probably no longer exist.  Everything is visualized, from the tedious monotiny of the 'proper British sort' of the early 20th Century to the haunting menace and lingering sense of doubt that such a shallow and repressed existence must struggle with.  Add to that the mysterious and incomprhensible alien nature of a foreign society the lead characters never imagined and the force of the book can take on a fascinating sociological spin.<br />Of what I've read, this is my favorite book by Forester, an author whom I regard as a pretty and absorbing writer of generally dull moments.  This book simply succeeds in keeping the reader rivited on numbness in the face of catastrophe more consistantly than Howard's End or A Room With A View.	2002-01-14
US	52506680	R1DUM3R04MS0RX	0375753133	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a beautiful series of character sketches	This is a wonderful book.  Quiet and unassuming, it profiles the humble lives of a number of unassuming characters in a small town, not as far as it thinks from the great cities of America.  It is the early 1900s and everyone is far less cynical than in modern times.  But fear, doubt, self-reflection and the questions of right and wrong haunt these people, sometimes forcing them into paralyzing inactivity or acts of irrational fear and rage.<br />Published in 1919, before most of the formative events of the last several generations, the experience of life contained herein seems eeriely timely, a portrait of human understanding that will likely never go out of style.	2002-01-10
US	52506680	R1E1JDIEC6SCLF	0679601104	462911655	Appointment in Samarra (Modern Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	hits painfully close to home	I didn't know what to expect when I began this book. John O'Hara--wasn't Paul Newman or Elizibeth Taylor in some flick I might not have seen, based on one of his books or short stories, sometime in the late 50s?  I think he wrote some big bestsellers and the guy on the front cover looks like an interesting drunk . . .<br />A first novel . . . hmmm . . . I suppose he is well worth remembering.  I can think of few books I'd put in the same class with Appointment in Samarra, a stirring, absorbing tragedy of unrealistic aspiration and retreat into self-destruction.  Being of the bitter and resentful sort I found definitions of behaviors I'd experienced and a frighteningly accurate explanation of actions I had considered and feelings I had suppressed.  The dialogue is blunt and true, the sorts of slangy toss offs people said in the early 30s when they were through with being polite.<br />As far as a limited perspective can see, this is a perminant picture of life in 1930s America going horribly, horribly wrong.	2002-01-10
US	52506680	RI27500GL0ZXT	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I entered with low expectations . . .	Perhaps this explains my enthusiasm for this book.  It's odd, really, a curious text not so much poorly written as blunt, barrenly blunt, an underhanded mumble of sorts that drones out a story that is really rather shocking.<br /><br />The events aren't particularly new, or not really: a dumb but innocent jerk runs away from his parents ideas about life and finds a small success at first, not so much financially or socially, but with the unexpected enjoyment of his absolute freedom.  Things run along for a time and then life changes, something happens, things or people change and nothing can ever be the same.  Sometimes we pick ourselves up, usually we don't.  This is the progress of inevitable plotting that made Drieser a master of a rigidly formated style called 'naturalism.'  For make no doubts: this book is realistic.  Regarding the insight into character the revelations of this book are profound, the work of a master.  Every squeak and detail is ushered out of the mind of nearly every character in the book; the ones who are not explained are explained away with a reason why they aren't important.  Every flake of ice and the reason for wearing their hair such a way is considered and itemized into the certain conviction that you are following the lives of people you might actually know--<br /><br />It's a long, slow and turgid book that I found to be utterly engrossing and completely enthralling.  Pardon me for simplifying a point with the resurrection of this variety of over-used cliches.	2002-01-09
US	52506680	R1TUPWJLB8J6QB	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	I love saul bellow . . .	Not allow me to clarify: This is the fifth book I have read by Mr. Bellow,following his career in some twisted, obsessively patterned quest to read his published work in order of publication.  Luckily, this is his fifth book.  Each novel, from Dangling Man up here to Henderson, are great.  It is difficult being so blunt in praise, being unable to relate the details and intricacies of this varying character study.  It is a funny, exciting adventure story of the profound, philosophical type.  It details the bumbling, absurd adventures of a man nearly unable to care for himself, and using an crazy sense of logic to piece the shattered aspects of his life together.<br />Saul Bellow, at least from the start of his career, was a consistant and far-reaching genius who studied human nature to a pinnicle extent, understanding much and offering interesting ideas in answer to the questions he raises.	2001-12-24
US	52506680	R1NJERWH3DLPZE	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	2	5	N	N	a personal footnote*:	I rarely re-read books.  Generally I'm one of those hoarders--a collector who stocks up on all the variety of books I could ever want to read.  Granted a collection grows overwhelming and eventually out-distances your time and capacity for reading, growing ever-expanding and pushing some once desired treasures to the back shelf.<br />Anyway, when I was in college, at present nine years ago, there was a time over two semesters when I was assigned to read this book three times.  Well, I read it twice (the one semester providing the benefit of teaching the novel at the same time).  A few years later I tried again and left once more burning with the conviction that I had read one of the very great novels of the 20th century.<br />Sure, such high-handed praise goes around and comes again, mixing and swirling between genres and styles and tastes.  But here is an experimental satire disguised as a somber discussion of race, complicated by the family/romantic troubles any ambitious young man encounters, then consumed with post-religious, aimless guilt and desperation brought about by isolation and madness and the fear of failure that can crush the spirit and flatten out the will to live until even the desire for suicide is destroyed.  It is a complicated, dazzling, entertaining book that is a noble and devestating account of a man beset by doubt and inner turmoil, often still lingering from wounds others inflicted over an uncertain past.<br />The absolute gibberish of this review should relate some of the overwhelming exuberence memories of reading it has evoked.  Nevertheless, I hope I haven't deterred you from reading the book . . .	2001-12-24
US	52506680	RL6Q18LYO5CJX	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a nice, humble book--rather over-rated	I don't wish to be harsh in my criticism of this fine novel.  It is a sweet, rather warm and intimite book where we focus mostly on the internal dialogue of numerous characters brooding.  This in itself tells us we are on an exploration of human emotion, as well as the thoughts, dreams, fantasies and excuses people tell themselves while contemplating their lives.  It is an honest story told with a passion so earnest you almost can't help but smile at the cute little girl who wrote such a pretty little story . . .<br />The writing is quite good in spots, adequete elsewhere and sometimes frequently awkward and uncertain.  One gleans that the author lacked confidence in her writing at times and overwhelms this lingering doubt with the repeated anxieties of everyone trying to bust out over the course of the novel.  This makes the book sometimes droning and dull, filled with gentle critque followed by panicked apologies.<br />Nevertheless it is a worthwhile read, a clear and blue-skied window into the heart of someone who can turn pain into sympathy right before your eyes.	2001-12-18
US	52506680	R27OM46GYZWTX3	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a concentrated narrative . . .	1984 is a lovely book.  In it we find bland descriptions choreographed with a rhythmic, powerful force of language and an internalized graphic depiction of a mind on the brink of rebellion.<br />It is false to claim that this is a 'probable future', as many of the issues and threats of the time of the prophecy have come and gone and been resolved by the evolution of society.  But the meaning is lasting, regardless of your meaning of oppression.<br />There tends to come a time in life when everyone feels oppressed, trapped by the state of the world and angered over their perceived restrictions.  In the case of this novel the specifics of the dictatorship are agonizingly detailed, the interest maintained by Orewell's natural story-telling abilities and spectacular wit.  But the meaning is meant to go deeper, filtering away the extremist exaggeration of the satirist and searching for clues in the muck of human nature.<br />These issues are timeless and therefore the threat of 1984 will never likely go away.  There will always be either a real or perceived oppressor and there will always be a basic human instinct to rebell.  Nowhere is this principle more lucidly articulated than in 1984.	2001-12-18
US	52506680	R1ZBHB6QT53P8S	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	you cannot deny it	Here's one of the most read American novels.  Sure, it's been heaped with praise since the critics of the mid-1920s were thinking about worshipping a new messiah.  But let's face it: their enthusiasm was on the right mark.<br />The Great Gatsby is a swift, gorgeously written story about people we don't seem to have anything in common with.  These are confused, wandering, sub-stratispheric members of an even more deeply ingrained sub-culture that, for the modern reader, also has no bearing on anyone they will ever encounter.  And yet the prose and the narrative force of this novel imbues these alien characitures with the sweet and stunning glow of life.  They transform into very human beings caught up in much of the youthful pain and torment of anyone who ever dreamed of success.  It is a tragic, heart-rending story of broken-hearts and insincere love as well as an epic portrait of nearly an entire generation of people embodied in the character of their greatest ambitions.  This book soars higher and higher with the passage of time and continues to force students, sometimes, to realize that they can enjoy reading a novel.<br />A wonderful, extraordinary book that tends to stay with you for a long time.	2001-12-15
US	52506680	R60UC8E4D0YK2	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	a bleak, desolate, entirely mournful novel	This is epic tragedy over a period of a few days.  Malcolm Lowry was possibly one of the greatest writers of the 20th century--who knows?  He wound up similar to the main character of this novel, who wanders around Mexico remembering that his ex-wife once loved him as he awaits her showing up with her new fella to celebrate the Day of the Dead.  Now of course our guy's a drunk: a washed away wastrel who had once quite probably been on the verge of being an important man.  Busted romance created side-tracks and then sent him over the edge of concern and into a void of emptiness and giving him an increasing desire to taste death.<br />The action is sparse and is related in a rambling, poetic language that gracefully lifts these sorrowful musings of a drunken failure into a fascinating insight into the very nature of self-destruction.<br />One of the best books I have ever read.	2001-12-15
US	52506680	R2V8TT0CWJW8CR	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a frightening if not always interesting novel	This is a pretty vivid picture of paranoia and persecutorial madness.  It tells the story of a party leader who has been arrested by the party he has loyally served for his entire life.  He's a legend, really, one of the original uprisers who'd helped pave the way for a successful revolution.  His arrest seems more to have something to do with a concept of 'out with the old . . .' than any specific crime.  And we sit in a cell with this one, panicked man who relates his excuse for being who he was.<br />It is interesting and far from a surrealistic, Kafkaesque haze of uncertainty and fear of death.  It is rather direct and to the point in its outlining of the seeming inhumanity of the entire apparatus of justice.  And herein lies the tragedy, the understanding that the true crime against humanity to the party--any party--is individuality.<br />Great stuff written almost as a list of incidents.	2001-12-15
US	52506680	R19P5MYW30TJ8J	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	0	0	N	N	strong and forceful, without movement	Mr. Faulkner wrote a hell of a book.  Here is a perspectivist masterpiece that essentially defined the man's entire career.  And yet something today is lost . . .<br /><br />The voices carry us through much of the same events, then chronologically extend time, and each with its own way of looking and private obsessions.  This, sadly, makes for an at times confusing read.  The force and the feeling of these seperate identities is strong and perhaps the confusion was intended, evoking, in the end, such an exhausted and outraged huff of air that you can feel the essence of the final narrator's frustration.<br /><br />It's a great story told in minutia too.	2001-12-12
US	52506680	R286IQTQ1LZU43	0140186832	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	worthwhile for obvious reasons	Jimmy could write.  Before there's any comment on theme and subtext and ideas, it is important to acknowledge the form and the style.<br />This is incredible, the overwhelming passion and the rhythmic dances that bleat their rosy horns so loudly even the staunchest athiest is gonna be thinking 'voice of God . . .'<br />The story is full and vivid, a tale of youth and important decisions about life.  On a more profound level it questions private moral judgment and alligence to God.  The choices are priesthood or independence, ultimately, as the boy doesn't 'abandon' the church so much as walk outside and try to find something else in life.  This is the basic arc of the story.<br />Realization, sadly, is often a dull and irrelevent experience in the retelling no matter how much you spruce it up with moo-cows and tuckoo.	2001-12-12
US	52506680	R188P7XFW4NYM1	081121186X	524179095	Laughter in the Dark (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	smooth and reletively evil	This is a fun book.  While it isn't quite as lovely as some of the previous (and I suspect later) works of Nabakov, here we have an immediate and entertaining novel.  It's a very quick read and the plot, while something you've likely seen before in many respects, keeps the ordinariness of the story waffled behind the savage hysterics and growing horror that occur to all the characters.<br />The prose, as usual, is beautiful (it becomes superfluous to state this about one of Nabakov's books I've become convinced), but it's not quite as flowing and rhythmic as in the five previous works--perhaps because this one was first translated much earlier in Vladie's career, before, in fact, he'd even settled fully on English.<br />But it's good, it's good, and a great deal of enjoyment can be derived from the cruel and hopeless pleasures of seeing someone helpless falling apart.<br />Really four-and-a-half stars, but rounded down because it is slightly lesser than Glory, Nabakov's previous novel.  The last forty pages or so are well worth wading through the occasional flights of tedium.	2001-03-23
US	52506680	R19VSYF31Q48VN	0679727248	196467006	Glory	Books	4	4	6	N	N	farewell to childhood	This was Nabakov's fifth novel.  This is the fifth book of his I've read.  Vladie is starting to sound like a grown-up.<br />His first three novels were alientating stories of brilliant youth, bitter and obsessed over their awkward superiority to others.  The Eye was a kid's afterlife story, all cute and smug and everything racked with some sort of glory.<br />Then comes Glory.<br />The protagonist is an arrogant, shiftless swan, kind and naive, but convinced he's worth something special.  In point of fact, he isn't.  All of his friends seem to be proving their worth and rising to the glorious peaks everyone always seemed to think he was supposed to attain.  A sucker for grunt work, Martin decides to outdo everyone with a physical feat.  But he's dumb, he's too self-absorbed, he's so full of himself that there is no idea of consequences or the future.<br />Nabakov tosses off his previous experimentation and forges ahead to what looks to be an open door of brilliant, brilliant ideas.  Each passing chapter builds more excitement and enthusiasm as you wander along just as aimlessly as poor, benighted Martin himself.  I believe this to be an honest book--the first honest book of Nabakov's career--and the menacingly self-depreciating tone of everyone towards everything gives us an ideal perspectivist slant on the narrative, feeding along in a world where, regardless of private likes and dislikes, everyone pretty much reacts exactly the same.  Life proves to be competitive and each player attempts to one up everyone else in the world.<br />It's actually a 4 and a half star book, and I feel guilty about words stated in my previous review for The Eye, but I STILL round it down because of the obnoxious, tedious, and wantonly swaggering introduction Vladie scribbled in a self-congradulatory way to tell you that his idea is just too brilliant for you to appreciate fully.  Perhaps so.  What have I lost?	2001-03-16
US	52506680	RWCXZDY31JSC4	0060196785	858189910	Emerald Germs Of Ireland: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	it continues . . .	I get giddy when I hear Patrick McCabe has a new book coming out.  For years now, ever since by chance I was browsing in a book store and caught a glimpse of the interesting looking cover of a single, obscure copy of a novel called The Butcher Boy, I have been wrapped up as a huge fan.  His subsequent books, The Dead School, Breakfast on Pluto, Mondo Desperado and now this, The Emerald Germs of Ireland, have all been wonderful.  This is a clever, brilliant lingual writer with a harsh comprehension of Irish, American, ethnic and other sorts of English slang as well as a gorgeous, modifed and tightly retrained knowledge of moving and hilarious storytelling.<br />Each book by McCabe is a string of adjectives: brilliant, wonderful, funny, tragic, sad, moving, joyous, inventive, imaginative, amazing, heart-rending and silly.  The Emerald Germs of Ireland is more of the same.  It's a bit more difficult a read than his previous works, frequently going off into the surrealistic and understandable incomprehensible delusions of the protagonist, but you quickly get used to this so transfixed are you by what might or might not be happening next.  This is both the saddest and funniest of McCabe's always sad and funny books and no author I have ever read (honestly!) has even been able to merge such suffering with such hilarious 'they-deserve-it--Good!' reactions from the reader.<br />This is another masterpiece by an author seemingly only capable of writing masterpieces.  McCabe is not the sort of author I smilingly recommend to friends, but the type of obsessively beloved writer I urge, push, force and demand they read.  I leave off doing the same to you . . .	2001-03-05
US	52506680	R1TIWNUZK3ZD1D	0684836122	698155584	Scapegoat: The Jews, Israel, and Women's Liberation	Books	3	14	37	N	N	Her Kampf	Andrea Dworkin has been building to this book for quite some time and now, with Scapegoat, we finally get to see the depths of her dementia.  Like Adolf Hitler, Ms. Dworkin scapegoats a hated group and blames everyone but herself for all the problems she has helped to perpetuate upon the world.  There really isn't anything of value in this propagandist's nightmare, other than the fascinating use of Jews and Isreal to make her frightening point: Dworkin seems to think 'liberation' and 'seperation' are synonymous and essentially calls for a bloodbath to reason her private, petty delusions.  I suspect the title of this book was almost the title of my review.<br />I give Scapegoat three stars because Dworkin finally seems to come into her own here, stating her long running point more eloquently, and more lucidly kicking off her gender war.	2001-02-15
US	52506680	R1EXHLINQBRM9X	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	4	5	7	N	N	history as drama	This is an exciting book.  Here are many of the details summarized and set along the chronology, easily accessable to everyone.  We are not buried (and bored) with seemingly irrelevent details of conversations so-and-so might have had with so-and-so, and all the most important individuals and events are given enough explaination to give the reader at least a superficial understanding.<br />This is a beautifully written book, almost novelistic in its approach to character and narrative, and we can actually see those vague ideas we thought we once upon a time learned something about.  The events seem to be accurate (although now, more than 200 years later, how could we possibly know?), and for anyone wanting to learn something about the American Revolution, this book should probably be the first place to turn before branching off into more specifics and more politically astute forms.<br />Another reason this book is personally appealling to me seems to be a shared interest between the author and myself, namely in detailing the causes leading up to the war (beginning some fourteen years prior to the outbreak), and less so on the heroic details of battles and seiges.  There is a specific early focus on the conventions and political debates flooding throughout this book before the war itself overtakes events and here the author seems to lose just a little interest and rampages into an action-adventure narrative.<br />The only primary criticism I could make of this book is with its tone: It is rather rah-rah in its relation of the individuals and battles and seems to occasionally veer away from objective history and into the mind of the 'patriotic radical' that makes up so much of the early events of the war.  This in and of itself isn't really a problem for a proud American content to sift through the numerous delusionary hero-worship tomes written about the war, but for the more serious student of American history this can sometimes (although not frequently as far as this book is concerned) get annoying.is book is concerned) get annoying.	2001-01-05
US	52506680	R751217UIOU8G	0451628810	78796814	The Federalist Papers	Books	5	25	29	N	N	a still accurate and relevent prophecy	It's frightening how accurate this book is.  All throughout the 85 papers that make up The Federalist, Hamilton, Madison and Jay state their points complete with warnings of what might happen should things go in a different direction.  Certainly they were standing up for their opinions and beliefs and of course they understood (and supported) the fact that not everyone would agree with their proposals, but something that we have today that they couldn't experience is hindsight.  The fears of a civil war for the reasons articulated came true almost to the number, the reasons why and how and what the ultimate end-result would probably be.  The warnings against abusive state and federal governments have, time and again, been bled out with remarkably accurate assumption.  The troubles of even so far a distant future as today were thought about and discussed and every effort was made to counter such obstacles with the sheer ugency of ideas.<br />It is tragic that this book has become something of a forgotten classic for the people of today, shrugging their shoulders and presuming that the founding fathers have nothing new to teach us.  Read on, young America.  Understand your nation.	2001-01-05
US	52506680	R3P7IEHYOA7XHW	0394717953	36470461	America at 1750: A Social Portrait	Books	5	27	29	N	N	a sadly incomplete yet fully realized work	This is a magnificent work of historical imagination.  Hofstadter's last book, it was what was to begin a much larger, possibly three volume epic on the social conditions of America at distinctive periods in our history.  And while this book is missing the fuller vision of a more articulated society, the chapters that are present are truly alive with insight and understanding of the way things probably were.  Here we see the slave trade not just from a one-sided arcadia, but from every side, from the profiteers and the oppressed, from the African kings selling their nation to the early-day abolitionists mildly arguing their case.  We see the white slaves too, the pains and humiliations of indentured servitude to the hearts and minds of men believing themselves at the very least a step up from inhumanity.<br />Then there is the middle class of the pre-revolutionary colonies, filled with religious fanatics and patriotic zealots, all of them looking to make a buck.  We see that this class formed the basic foundations of the nation to come and how the politicians of the day catered mostly to this hardly regal, far-reaching group of normal, everyday folks.  This chapter, perhaps, gives the fullest picture of the society that was that went on to create the society we are today.<br />And then there is a long discussion of the church and the 'Great Awakening' that plundered through the minds of so many post-witch hunting citizens.  These chapters explain the foundations that led not just to a seperation of church and state, but to the required need for religious diversity and how this principle, above all else, came to found our subsequent ideas on American freedom.<br />A glorious, neccessary book, it makes one mourn for this already celebrated historian and wonder what might have been (and regardless of that annoying cliche, one can't help but think in such basic praise dialect when finishing).	2000-12-18
US	52506680	R88FA19Y92XM9	0306807971	363906660	A Delusion Of Satan	Books	4	10	15	N	N	a weakly written yet fascinating account	I'm not one of these 'witch folklore' nuts.  In fact, this is the first and probably the only book on the Salem ordeal I'll likely ever read.  Now this is not because I had any problems with the book, nor because I imagine I've learned everything there is to know.  Those reasons are personal and have nothing to do with a book review.<br />Anyway, Ms. Hill is not a particularly strong writer.  Her sentences are weak and the prose is frequently boring.  But she has such a fascinating approach to the events that the reader can't help but follow along with an almost manic grip to find out  if what they might already know happened happened.<br />In spite of what some of the other reviewers say, the psychological re-evalution of the girls and events seems pretty sound to me.  Of course she might be applying a modern day sensability to the case, but so is everyone living and thinking about it today.  Ms. Hill simply tries to do so from a more objective standpoint.  It is clear that some of the previous reviewers have some sort of agenda of their own in the overly harsh and, frankly, incorrect statements made on this book.  For example, one individual states that Tituba is condemned as a liar because 'she was not a Puritan'.  This simply isn't true.  Truth be told, she isn't condemned at all, but merely held up as a frightened slave in the days of slavery accused of witchcraft and doing anything she can to keep herself alive.  She is not labeled a sinner or a heretic or anything any of these mordern day witch hunters might imagine the author to be.  She is only depicted as a troubled and terrified woman who needed to latch on to the popular fear and craze of the moment to better herself in the uncertain and hopefully hopeless future.<br />This is an informative and entertaining book without a single sentence of lingual wizardry.  The more I think about it (regardless of my personal love for gorgeous prose) the better that seems for this particular tale of British Colonial history.istory.	2000-12-18
US	52506680	R2YR52JGYB9G3M	0375500812	566914518	Martha Peake: A Novel of the Revolution	Books	3	7	10	N	N	the tragedy of beautiful writing	You know, I really like Patrick McGrath.  This is the fourth of his books that I've read and each one has taken a distinctive path in my admiration and disappointment.  As a result, Martha Peake is nothing new.  Let this be known: the prose stylings of this novel are brilliant; full of twisting mazes of language, spinning (almost) out of control around the winding dark corners of predictable gothic dialect, the book is a near smashing success and, ultimately, a tragic failure.<br />It's a shame when an author of such impeccable talent comes up with a great idea for a story and bogs it down with his already done narrative format.  I wish Mr. McGrath would outgrow his still adolescent 'gothic' pretentions and come into his own with a story (perhaps much like the one told in this almost great novel) that shows not just lingual superiority, but a true sense of storytelling and narrative innovation.  I know you can do it, Paddy.  Please don't let your still lingering fans down.	2000-12-18
US	52506680	R31CF65ZBVGBKS	1567920969	417648554	The Newton Letter	Books	5	9	11	N	N	written almost too well	You know, I have a thing for Irish writers.  Call it a fetish, call it an obsession, but I think I'll settle for an enthusiastic appreciation.  Banville is an author I've been familiar with since long before I seriously  got into reading and whom, for some reason, I had never gotten around to.  When The Newton Letter was reprinted, I went out of my way to aquire this  (I think I pre-ordered this book here on Amazon something like six months  before it was published, then got annoyed at a delayed date and picked it  up elsewhere).  Anyway, it's possible that there isn't a better writer in  English than Mr. Banville.<br />Now let me go out of the way and say that the  story of this book isn't very compelling.  It's about some guy finishing  some long and dull sounding book about Isaac Newton and all the things that  went on in his life during the many years of composition.  All this in  under a hundred pages.  But, of course, there is a very deep and very dark  subtext lingering about, dealing with all those private torments and  suicidal thoughts going through a boring, self-absorbed man while his life  falls apart around him.  And he's superficially indifferent to his personal  failures, pouring his everything into his dry book on a crazy genius from  300 years before.  It is a very sad story.<br />But the prose, the language,  the rhythmic flow of every word inside this small masterpiece keeps the  reader riveted.  It seems that virtually every human emotion is explored  (or explained) in this book.  Jealousy and envy and hatred and deep,  never-ending love swirl around and around and slap you in the face and make  you feel, make you tear out your hair in anger and dry your eyes from  ever-present tears (sometimes from laughter).  And while this is far from  Banville's best book (something that makes aspiring authors go through much  of what the hopeless narrator goes through while dealing with someone who  is his infinate superior), it is probably the best introduction to his  style.  Banville's best books are The Book of Evidence, Ghosts, Athena and  The Untouchable, another depressing fact considering those are his four  most recent efforts.  I see Nobel Prize, finally deserving, going back to  Ireland.  God bless the Queen . . .duction to his  style.  Banville's best books are The Book of Evidence, Ghosts, Athena and  The Untouchable, another depressing fact considering those are his four  most recent efforts.  I see Nobel Prize, finally deserving, going back to  Ireland.  God bless the Queen . . .	2000-08-13
US	52506680	R1Q5IB2AQUTT6G	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	5	61	64	N	N	one of the best debuts of any writer, ever	Philip Roth is a great writer.  Yeah, we've all heard this at one point or another (at least those of you taking and wasting time to read a review of one of his books).  This was Mr. Roth's first published work, a short novel  and five short stories that forced us to realize this man had arrived  violently on the scene as a powerful literary force.  Let's talk about the  stories in this collection:<br />&quot;Goodbye, Columbus&quot; is, honestly,  without the standard hyperbole so many people slab into reviews such as  this, one of the best novels I have ever read.  It was written by a  twenty-five year old man who was only going to get better (as his work from  the mid-1980s to the present firmly establishes) yet here we have the  wisdom of our great American gods.  It is a beautiful story, funny and  painful and filled with truths anyone in those recent post-college,  still-not-finding-one's self perspective could learn and grow from.  I love  this story, and it is filled with agonizing self-analytical material that  shows who it is we are dealing with, the intellect and the passion, the  savagry and the wit.  There are not too many single stories of American  authors I could recommend more highly than this book, in particular the  five page sequence from which this story gets its title.  It is haunting  and true, one of the rare glories of English in narrative form.  If for  nothing else, get this book to read this lovely novella.  It is,  profoundly, a masterpiece (not a term I use lightly either, being the  bitter cynic I am--check out other reviews I've written--I can get rather  mean)&gt;<br />Among the other stories, the most celebrated is  &quot;Conversion of the Jews&quot;, and for good reason.  This is another  gorgeously written tale about self-discovery and the agony of those  questions all beginning with 'Why?'  Here is a story questioning faith,  questioning the idea of God or a higher power that has been transformed  into such a makeshift mythology by all the varying faiths, why bother, it  asks, what is the point and is it real and who are we and why are we here  and why why why why why?  This is a great story.<br />Sadly, this collection  is begun with the two tales I have so widely praised.  The remaining  stories are good--very good, in fact, but following up &quot;Goodbye,  Columbus&quot; and &quot;Conversion of the Jews&quot;, something is lost as  they are unable (quite understandably--what 25 year old author is going to  maintain such sustained greatness?  It took Roth 27 years to return to this  passion in &quot;The Counterlife&quot;, and then he expanded from there,  getting better and better progressively, and never looking back)to keep up  the fascination.  Now this is not to say there is anything wrong with these  other stories.  Had they been all there was in this collection I would have  looked back with nodding approval and said, &quot;Hey, this guy is going  somewhere.&quot;  But they are not the first two stories and are almost  awkwardly placed as an aftermath of a developing great author.  Get this  book urgently, and read them all.  Just don't allow yourself to be soured  by the slightly lesser material following the first two masterworks.y all the varying faiths, why bother, it  asks, what is the point and is it real and who are we and why are we here  and why why why why why?  This is a great story.<br />Sadly, this collection  is begun with the two tales I have so widely praised.  The remaining  stories are good--very good, in fact, but following up &quot;Goodbye,  Columbus&quot; and &quot;Conversion of the Jews&quot;, something is lost as  they are unable (quite understandably--what 25 year old author is going to  maintain such sustained greatness?  It took Roth 27 years to return to this  passion in &quot;The Counterlife&quot;, and then he expanded from there,  getting better and better progressively, and never looking back)to keep up  the fascination.  Now this is not to say there is anything wrong with these  other stories.  Had they been all there was in this collection I would have  looked back with nodding approval and said, &quot;Hey, this guy is going  somewhere.&quot;  But they are not the first two stories and are almost  awkwardly placed as an aftermath of a developing great author.  Get this  book urgently, and read them all.  Just don't allow yourself to be soured  by the slightly lesser material following the first two masterworks.	2000-07-06
US	52506680	R1NILK2QWBUP15	0140189378	105415017	Seize the Day (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	27	36	N	N	a grim little entry	This book is a lovely piece of painful truth.  As I go through each of Bellow's novels one thing that stands out progressively is the assured confidence that grows and grows each time we cross through similar terrain.  This is not to say that he repeats himself--certainly not as the on-going  philosophy matures through both personal life experience and a further  understanding of human nature.  Seize the day is, as usual, extremely  well-written but with this short novel I believe that Bellow began crossing  into that phase of maturity that makes an author ever-lasting and forces  his vision upon the world at large.  It is no wonder that when Bellow won  his Nobel Prize twenty years after the publication of this book that it was  singled out for special notice.  Basically your middle-class everyman is  portrayed (with, of course, the particularities related to Bellow himself  to give the human reactions more sincerity) at one of those mid-life  boiling points when the decisions made will effect everything that comes  later.  You read along with a similar urgancy, rooting yet never hoping,  aware that many of Tommy Wilhem's mistakes are similar to your own and  breathlessly hoping to find an answer to your own questions.<br />Four books  into Mr. Bellow's career I am now convinced that all the high-handed praise  is, for once, truly justified.  This guy is one of the true American  wonders, one of the gods of our literature.	2000-06-29
US	52506680	R2WCR4RNPJQ7PW	0375724427	253343732	The Stories of John Cheever	Books	5	13	16	N	N	the American short story defined	John Cheever was the best American writer. No, I'm not just talking about of his era; I mean ever. It's true. Sure, glancing over his novels, you might find yourself checking ahead occasionally, enjoying yourself, caught up in the vivid lives of his creations, then going back and marvelling over the absolute perfection of his language, of the narrative structure, of every single itty bitty word chalk outlined around these actual lives. Then there are his shorter works.<br />In this book failure exists only to the characters of the stories. John Cheever was and still remains the quintessential American short story writer (and no matter what trends pervert society in unimaginably futuristic ways, pompous or well-read people will still try to copy his style). This book, in my aloof and often condescending opinion, is the second finest collection of short fiction I have ever read (behind the still thriving William Trevor's endless Collected Stories which is only superior because its nearly twice the length). I am an American and American lives, American incidents, American dreams and failures are what finally interest me because I know no other way. This is not a book of fiction but a cleanly scrubbed window into reality of place and time and day to day to day to day of people like you, people like me, people like that jerk across the street and that unattainable sweetheart down the lane. Here is America without the slam bam rhythm of our exaggerated selves. Here is America unable to fall asleep from rumination of its uncertainties and shame.<br />Don't say I didn't warn you--	2000-06-14
US	52506680	R2QG103GJSQM00	0140189416	956359818	The Adventures of Augie March (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	as irrelevent as calling a book 'over-written', here we are	This is one of Bellow's most highly regarded novels and there are plenty of reasons why. It's wonderfully written, maintains the interest throughout a very honest, human story that few people won't be able to relate to. It focuses on its time and place directly and gives the reader deep insight into the people who are living, turning the narrative into a seperate dimension, dragging you into this universe and keeping you there, forever, trapped, unhappy after a long time of joy. Augie keeps talking, keeps telling you his story, and after a while it seems like he has used himself up. Oh, sure, all these additions allow us to know the boy/kid/man, and he tells it with intriuging insight; but sometimes things he tells us about himself are repeated, Augie loses focus and when he gets nervous or unsure of himself, he details the shattered, minute details that serve to distract us.<br />Yeah, it's a terrific book, but among Bellow's first three novels, I believe it is the least of them. Read it anyway, get what is to be gotten, then move on, keep it in your mind, allow Augie to haunt you for a while, then forget all about that person who bothered you like hell but just couldn't stop trying to help--	2000-05-25
US	52506680	R1N60DDGKRS94V	067972723X	586150064	The Eye	Books	4	2	10	N	N	more fun than his previous three novels, overly cute	I get the impression that Nabakov began shifting directions with this brief novel, a wild farce about disillusion and indifference to the world and one's protective ability to seperate yourself from reality.  Certainly  there is more of a plot than in Mary, King, Queen, Knave or The Defense,  and it is just as gorgeously written.  It's really quite entertaining and  filled with what (I suspect) grew to become Vlad's unique voice.  The only  criticism I could give The Eye is the clear swagger of an extraordinarily  arrogant author who is basically showing off his talent with the wrong  story.  Hey, yeah, we know (knew) he could write well, but such a minor  work is not the best showcase for the unrestrained pretentiousness I'm  beginning to fear as I continue along my path of reading each one of  Nabakov's novels.  Basically this is a pleasent chuckle followed by a  disconcerted 'uh-oh'.	2000-04-26
US	52506680	R1ZB5ONU1VE2YU	0192820281	916996744	The Defence (Twentieth Century Classics) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	again, clever and wisping, but still not perfection	This is Nabakov's third novel, a moving and bleak picture of a self-obsessed man who decides to obsess on anything but himself.  It is wonderfully written, beautiful, an obvious indication of just how marvelous  a prose stylist Vladimir was, but I sometimes found myself wondering if I  really cared.  Of course, I find chess to be terribly dull (perhaps my own  lack of ability at the game having something to do with this), but that  didn't stop me from admiring the compelling structure of the narrative--the  world reduced to a chess board and the people taking on the individual  characteristics (including the methods of movement) of the various  pieces.<br />I'm sticking with Nabakov, continuing on, hoping that he was more  than just a nifty stylist and eventually blossomed into that rarist treat:  A stylish author who understands how to tell an engaging story.	2000-04-23
US	52506680	R3AT7MHVJF63FJ	0140189386	747930181	The Victim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	a tight, beautifully composed narrative	Surely this is not Bellow's best work, but it's deeply affecting nonetheless.  Okay, I'll admit it: I'm an enormous fan of Mr. Bellow's and had this been written by another writer I was less familiar with, I perhaps  would have gone the three star route (three and a half--but that isn't an  option, so Saul gets rounded up), but there is still a lot to admire here.  The prose is gorgeous and, while the story sometimes falls off track,  anyone reading should be able to identify with one of the two main  characters (or, in my own case, with both of them at different times).  It  deals with the struggles of the modern world and blaming your own mistakes  and misfortune on others to keep up the thin stirrings of hope and an  optimistic idea of the future.  There is also a lot to say about conformity  in a modern world (regardless of the 1947 date of publication, the focus on  these elements seems to have become 'modern day timeless', lasting forever  as the days and seasons change), and how we are dehumanized by the swift  pace and grubbing filth and greed of inhuman business, automated people  shuttling to and from whereever it is they for some reason need to be.  The  way these themes are expressed humanizes this sort of fear and explains the  way many people feel as their lives settle down and the sky darkens, with  an ominous future of nothing left to look forward to.  Now if only Asa  weren't so irritating (and believe me--I perfectly love unlikable  protagonists, but this guy is kind of grating at times and you often find  yourself wishing his nightmare could get worse and worse and worse and  worse . . .)	2000-04-23
US	52506680	R1X9DMW125FXRL	0140189351	623648507	Dangling Man (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a wonderfully honest novel	Yeah, I know it's a work of fiction, I know the people are made up, the events are all varied figments of Mr. Bellow's imagination.  Certainly these things never quite happened in exactly this way, but I still think this book is about the way Saul Bellow felt at the time of his own draft  board frustrations.  When someone as skillful and gifted as Mr. Bellow sets  down to slide out a crystalline picture of the truth, the world should take  notice.  It's rather comforting to know that a wider than expected portion  has.	2000-04-19
US	52506680	RSFKLA0K4NGVO	0679723404	44839279	King, Queen, Knave	Books	4	1	5	N	N	a stirring, yet sometimes overwrought, silly little book	Oh, the style certainly is sweet, and I agree with the previous assessment that Martha is a wonderful invention, and the mastery of language already displayed in Mary crackles with pyrotechnics.  This was a field day that  got a little bit carried away by an author confirming his genius to  himself.  In other words, the joyous display of lingual gymnastics  contained in the vague and rather eventless story comes off a mite bit  swaggering.  Of course Vladie had something to swagger about.  He sadly was  never given the opportunity to re-invigorate Russian prose (banned and  everything in the Mother Land), but the first play could outshine the  re-telling like the glow of heavenly magic.<br />The story goes from A to B  in an offhanded manner and certain passages of gorgeous prose don't really  need to be there.  Four stars out of five for the enjoyment of the  language.	2000-04-15
US	52506680	R34PW0ZO8I0385	0679726209	616949871	Mary	Books	4	6	10	N	N	a lucidly crafted pearl	I'm not quite as enthusiastic about this book as the glistening and hyperboletic praise of the previous passages, but it is beautifully constructed nonetheless and composed (even in translation) with thunderous  and lurking prose.  I forgot everything else not too much later, but the  style, the riffs of language certainly stayed behind.  I am at present in a  personal sort of 'study' period with my own hopeful career, and decided to  alternate every novel Vladie here ever wrote, and some stories and plays,  screenplay and criticism (even one of the translations), with other  historical or just general reading.  I'm going in order of publication.  A  promising start to a career.	2000-04-15
US	52506680	R1AXN60C4MB4DB	0060194618	899090623	Mondo Desperado: A Serial Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	this is getting serious now	I have to admit, I've been a huge fan a Patrick McCabe's for quite some time.  Now I'm not one of those folks you sometimes read here who is painful with their glorious heapings of praise on their favorite authors, but McCabe (to me anyway) has become something of a unique spark.  Everything (and I mean EVERYTHING--please publish Music on Clinton Street  in the US--please?) I have read by this man is magnificent.  From the grim,  bleak and hysterically funny Carn, through the utter magnificence of The  Butcher Boy (perhaps my favorite book), through The Dead School and  Breakfast on Pluto, there is not a single thing I can say against this man.  Then he comes and slams home a wonderful short story collection with this  book.  Okay, I'm not going to get into particulars (as my glowing,  glorifying praise might imply), but this a just a wonderful book.  Everything, everyone, every story is perfect.  There is nothing more to  add, nothing to take away.  Everything is pure, everything is as it should  be.  Is this book sad like many of his others?  Yes.  But there is a darker  comedic edge herein.  The best, the best, the best book availible this  year.  Start picking up Patrick McCabe.  Here is a future Nobel Prize  winner (wait and see!)  Here is the grand glory of Irish writers.  Here is  the single best writer in the world.  For all of you would-be and wannabe  and actual writers out there who might stumble across this superfluous  praise, pick this up, read it, then brood over the fact that you will never  be able to quite match McCabe's ability.  I did.  It hurts and then you try  harder.  This book is honesty, it is the truth.  (I understand that I'm  adding on the the ultimate irrelevence of this review, but it is just that  wonderful.  How many books have you read recently that you just can't stop  praising?)<br />One side note: I hope McCabe doesn't write subsequent books  under the heading of the fictitious author persona of this one.  Not that I  wouldn't gobble it up, but simply that it would be difficult to provoke the  same passion for a place we've been before.gobble it up, but simply that it would be difficult to provoke the  same passion for a place we've been before.	2000-03-17
US	52506680	R1DGTPJKXUYE9T	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Riveting	This is a marvelous book, brutal and cold, with a bitter wind of universal loathing.  Here we have a  story of an almost unspeakable evil and the coarse, boorish thugs involved with carrying a reign of terror to the end.  Like many of McCarthy's other novels (especially Child of God and Suttree),  it is gloriously composed, featuring a writhing prose style, rousing and  rhythmic and directly to the point.  There is a wonderful, matter-of-factly  written dialogue of two of the scalp hunters realizing they are eating  tacos made out of cat meat.  They can only shrug their shoulders and chow  down, starving and with nothing else around for miles.<br />Of all  McCarthy's works, this is my favorite, but be forewarned (if, for some  reason, things like this bug you): Here is truly one of the most violent  novels ever written.  Of course, sheer, murderous depravity has never been  recorded with such precision and style, the same energy given to McCarthy's  celebrated scenic descriptions in The Border Trilogy, repeated for  atomizations of an agonizing death and the wounded maraduers creating some  sort of apocylpse.	2000-01-26
US	52506680	R1BCPL2B5D5NHJ	0679734503	755691955	Crime and Punishment: Pevear & Volokhonsky Translation (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	30	40	N	N	an outstanding example of understanding personality	You know, for years I avoided Dostoevsky.  What had I heard about this guy, this looney, Christian fanatic that some pompous jerk in a university somewhere anonymous proclaimed as, &quot;The greatest author--ever&quot;?  Hell, I'm an American and we got our pride, right?<br />So everything I knew  about Dostoevsky is that he wrote long books that dissect every minute  detail of every character, no matter how small.  Sounds dull, right?<br />But  this book (and all the others I have thus far read: The Brothers Karamozov,  Notes From Underground, The Idiot, The Eternal Husband--the list goes on,  but I'll spare you) is formed by the plot, by the actions and activities of  its so dissected characters.  Crime and Punishment is the rare book when  we, the reader, can truly understand the character.  We see the germ of a  thought forming and how this affects Raskolikov, how he acts on it and the  consequences for him personally, both physically and, moreso, emotionally.  Dostoevsky had initially planned this novel as a shorter work (perhaps half  its length), a chronicle of the psychological ramifications of a crime.  He  succeeded with this probably better than he had set out to do (though of  this I can't be sure--I've heard Fyodor was a tremendously arrogant guy).  So here, take this, pick it up, buy it right now.  It is not some lofty,  unaccessable work of 'high art' (although it is a work of art), but a  slam-bang, thrilling, action-packed study of a crazy guy getting crazier  until he finally gets sane, understanding himself, what he's done and why.  Also, the translation by Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky is  wonderful, far more lucid than the still good but dated version by  Constance Garnett.	1999-11-11
US	52506680	REZ7LT9KB8PVE	0670887579	200647078	A Star Called Henry	Books	5	1	3	N	N	better and better	Roddy Doyle started out as a talented, extremely promising young novelist with The Commitments.  He got better with his follow-up, The Snapper.  Then came The Van, the final story of his Barrytown Trilogy and now he was a  major novelist.  The movies of those three novels were coming out, each  better than the last, and he was writing the screenplay adaptations too.  But he wasn't finished.  Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha blazed out in 1993 and went  on to win the Booker Prize, a true, shattering masterpiece.  He took a step  backward with the lovely little The Woman Who Walked Into Doors, but it was  a great book nontheless.  And now . . .<br />A Star Called Henry is a  wonderful book, a stunning, stirring fictionalized history of hard times  and revolutionary activity being run by savages and monsters fighting an  arrogant and oppressive dictatorship.  It is hard, it is fast, it is  extremely violent and is only part one of another proposed trilogy.  There  likely will not be a finer novel released this year.	1999-09-16
US	52506680	R24LWP9CA7KVWG	0679733086	325881000	Recoil	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a thrilling novel with a weak, tacked on happy ending	This book speeds along almost as an afterthought.  The plot is slick and sharp and a great deal of fun.  The characters are the same somewhat stupid lowlifes that Thompson always wrote about.  They have a subtle uniqueness  that certainly separates them from the protagonists of many of his better  know works.  It is 178 pages long.  170 of those pages are wonderful.  Then, likely at the insistance of some lamebrained publishing house who  didn't like all the darkness and sordidness of what was happening in the  story, there is this absolutely unrealistic ending in regards to everything  that has happened before and the logical direction such useless people's  lives would take.  It ends on an up note (something that in general I am  not a fan of, but even for those who are, at least a happy ending should  make sense  in the lives of these characters we have gotten to know).  There is even a somewhat cynical epilogue two page final chapter that wraps  things up so neat and nice and tidy for the hopeless, slimy  &quot;heroes&quot; of the book.  It doesn't make sense.  It should have  ended with the likely outcome of any scumbag in such a situation.  Life  goes on, they are fogotten and nothing good will ever enter their lives  again.	1999-08-22
US	52506680	R3PPAOTFB3UBYR	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	a much more literary effort	Okay, I admit it: I love Thomas Harris' work.  Black Sunday, Red Dragon, The Silence of the Lambs, each has been better than the last.  But Hannibal is a different novel altogether.  It is better written, certainly.  It has  a deeper narrative, a much more character driven plot.  It is a wonderful  book.<br />I have read many of the pervious reviews for this novel and get the  impression that many people are basing their opinions on the movie and not  the previous novel.  Fact: Harris DID NOT view the acclaimed (and  magnificent) film of his last novel because he did not wish to be unduly  influenced by the movie in his next effort.<br />This book is not so much a  suspense novel as it is a dark probing of the psychological make-up of  characters that have become mainstay's of American popular culture.  There  is also a subtle, bitter attack on the many lunatics that have made  Hannibal Lecter some sort of patron saint and hero.  Much of this book's  subtext deals with the commercialization of psychopathic killers who have  turned into figments of popular entertainment.  Here within there is talk  of how artifacts from these awful, evil indiviudals have become revered  collecter's items.  Think about this as you bitch and moan about how your  precious images have somehow gone astray.<br />Chapter 21 of Hannibel, pages  132-138, is one of the most beautifully written chapters in all of  literature.  Harris has pulled away from the story, involved us directly in  the psychology of people we could never understand.  The story falls away  as the reader is taken on a ride inside the mind of a genius who also  happens to be a madman.  It is a wonderful example of atmospheric  psychology, the surrounding and the mental make-up of a character even  Harris must admit has become something more than he ever intended.  It is  almost satirical yet within the structure of the story he is presenting.  There is almost nothing more fascinating than entering the mind of someone  whom we can never understand.  This brief fragment of the novel succeeds  almost beyond comparison (check out most anything by James Ellroy for  further examples.)<br />Yes, the final section of the book gets a bit silly.  Yes, it is a bit of a cartoonish ending for such a sustained and horrifying  narrative.  But by this point I was well past caring as Harris had given me  much more than everything I had anticipated.  Do not take these  misunderstood attacks on this beautifully written literary effort to heart.  Quite simply, they are wrong.  They don't know what they are experiencing.  They have never read anything that is truly about the characters.  All  they want is action.  They are wrong.  You are right for buying it and  seeing for yourself.om we can never understand.  This brief fragment of the novel succeeds  almost beyond comparison (check out most anything by James Ellroy for  further examples.)<br />Yes, the final section of the book gets a bit silly.   Yes, it is a bit of a cartoonish ending for such a sustained and horrifying  narrative.  But by this point I was well past caring as Harris had given me  much more than everything I had anticipated.  Do not take these  misunderstood attacks on this beautifully written literary effort to heart.   Quite simply, they are wrong.  They don't know what they are experiencing.   They have never read anything that is truly about the characters.  All  they want is action.  They are wrong.  You are right for buying it and  seeing for yourself.	1999-06-25
US	52506680	R11H5FNDMKHQ6A	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a difficult, occasionally overwhelming complication	A tale of play-acting turned into mind-games, The Magus is a fine example of the dark-side of formalized and experimental psychology.  Basically we have an over-wrought and often ludicrious tale of exotic locals and mysterious romance that is complicated by a harsh and endless critique of the new gospel of psychology.  Considering that this book was published in the early days of the 'blame everything on anything but the self' theories of modern psychotherapy The Magus could quite possibly be considered prophetic, but that would undermine the basic concept.<br />Since I don't wish to ramble on with my own personal propaganda, I will end here, stating that this novel ultimately helped me to formalize several of my own opinions on this topic and certainly gave me time for self-reflection . . .	1999-06-02
US	52506680	R1RD09GTNYDEQ0	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	mesmerizing	John Fowles is something of a forgotten author these days.  This is a mistake.  Everything he has written, from this, his first novel, to the non-fiction of Wormholes, is a shining light.  This is the story of a  psychotic obsession and the shallowness of the art world, combined, mixed  and measured for the most horrific effect.  The prose is lovely, the story  flows like a machine gun and everything that happens is somehow  fascinating.<br />There are few authors in existence that I could recommend an  entire body of work so enthusiastically.	1999-05-28
US	52506680	R1J9DPAKM6FLXT	0385490526	870907281	The Comedy Writer	Books	5	6	6	N	N	vastly under-rated--needs to be taken seriously	I have to admit, when I decided to start this book, my expectations were  not at an all time high.  Perhaps my subsequent delight with such wonderful  novel clouds my opinion a little, but five stars is five stars and I loved  this book.<br />Farrelly is best known as a successful screenwriter and  director of such over-the-top comedies as There's Something About Mary and  Kingpin.  Now I really enjoyed both of those movies (as well as Dumb and  Dumber), but they are hardly the stuff of a brilliant story-teller.<br />Or  are they?<br />Having recently re-watched all three of Mr. Farrelly's films,  one thing stands out beyond all else.  The stories themselves are the most  important thing.  Sure, sure, you can write their stuff off as  &quot;gross-out&quot; comedy, but look at the plots.  A could-have been's  life stops mattering because of one childhood mistake, something it takes a  lifetime of humilation to get past.  A man  embarrasses himself on prom  night and spends the next ten years mourning that one day when his whole  life could have been turned around.  In The Comedy Writer, there is a  similar fixation with that one moment in time that has shaped a life.  Something bad or sad or mortifying happened and now the person has become  set on a path, no way out, this is who he has become.  The Comedy Writer  deals, much the way There's Something About Mary and Kingpin do, with a  loser's effort to make something  of himself--no matter what.  It's not  like he can get any lower--take the risk.<br />This novel has a depth and  emotional resonance that might come as a surprise.  It is dark and tragic  in spots, light and silly elsewhere, with wonderful Hollywood dialogue and  a perfectly timed  first person narration.  More than anything else,  perhaps, if you are an aspiring young writer (or filmmaker) this book will  speak truths you may already know, but try hard to supress.  Deal with it.  This work can even inspire you to continue	1999-05-15
US	52506680	R2T8MIWR5TOX6B	0312146957	873574527	The Old Forest and Other Stories	Books	5	32	33	N	N	a luminous, clear-sighted book	This lovely collection of stories presents some of the most complete short  fiction ever produced.  Each story (averaging around thirty pages) tells  everything that needs to be said about their characters.  Their lives are  there in their entirety.  These are real stories of a simplier time, in a  pleasent,more docile place.  And what happens as modern day begins to seep  in, casting a gloom on all the old glories of the past.  These  people do not understand what is happening.  They are upper class rich  white folks of the near south, clinging to an old way of life that is  somehow becoming irrelevent.  It's the coming and,later, the going of The  Great War, when Hitler was making it life or death, and the ole red white  and blue is gonna die fighting.  This is how life seems to these privilaged  folks, and their uneasy relationships with their Jim Crow servants is  starting to show signs of wear and tear, and even the good ones are acting  all uppity and haven't they always been decent to their HIRED HELP?<br />  Attitudes like this were very much in existence during the eras where these  narratives take place.<br />  Now I usually don't go in for stuff this  tame, but the emotion is true, the stories are wonderful and any aspiring  writer could learn more  from this book than any creative writing class  could teach (unless they taught the book--then, good job.)  This is how you  want to tell a story.  Not style, not mood or tone or pitch or pace--this  is what a beginning, a middle and a climactic end should look like.  It is  a model of short fiction.  You know how plays have acts and novels have  chapters?  Here is the short story	1999-05-14
US	52506680	R1GGHAHA4NWDM3	0440164176	320314095	The New Centurions	Books	5	38	40	N	N	a rough and surprisingly beautiful novel	I have to admit that Wambaugh's subsequent books (with the exception of The Onion Field) have been major disappointments.  Perhaps that is because this, his first novel, is such a wonderful and complete book.  Everything  else seems to be a valient yet failed effort to recapture to wonder and  confusion of this bristling masterwork.  It deals with the trials, triupmhs  and personal failures of three young cops, the now stock characters of the  confused kid, the inept failure trying to make something out of himself and  the brainy, yet physically weak intellectual who tries to out smart every  situation.  It takes them from academy training up through the Watts riots  of 1965.  The characters are real, innately believable and sympathetic and  abhorrent and cruel.  I loved this book.  With the exception of the brutal  novels of James Ellroy, there is no better &quot;cop&quot; fiction  available, and it is infinately more realistic than Ellroy's work because  we get the sense that Wambaugh truly was there at these events, that he  honestly understand s what it is like to be young and scared with a gun and  a badge when the whole world is falling apart.  It took about four or five  books before Wambaugh became just another second rate crime novelist.  This  is the finest of his almost true-crime fiction.  Likely you will burn  through this absorbing novel in the shortest time possible.  Compelling,  funny, action-packed and sad, this is a wonderful book that, within its  ever growing sub-genre, will likely never be equaled.	1999-04-29
US	52506680	RMCQPWSIEWOK4	0140232451	326397181	William Trevor: The Collected Stories	Books	5	33	34	N	N	the greatest of all short story collections	This is, perhaps,the finest of all books.  With 85  magnificent stories, virtually every one a solid masterpiece,William Trevor stands at the ultimate heights of his genre.  Each story is a compressed gem and,while I  have to admit that not every one is the greatest thing ever written, when  you are blown away by about 1100 pages of a 1261 page opus, it is worth it  in the end.  Even the lesser stories have their merits, beautiful writing  and sincere exploration of character.  This is a book that everyone should  read.  I understand that this  is a bit of an ethusiastic cliche and it is  not a statement I have made before.  But the sometimes comedic, usually  heartbreaking tales contained within this book are just about all anyone  needs to learn the wide range of emotions suffered by humanity.  Do not  pass up this unique offer.  You will never have a better opportunity to be  entertained while learning everything about human nature.	1999-04-24
US	52506680	R1KFD7P6F76JST	0375404120	939433309	Glamorama	Books	5	9	11	N	N	a shockingly mature novel	You start this book and think, &quot;more of the same old Ellis.&quot;  Now I'm essentially a fan of Mr. Ellis.  I'm not one of the ill-informed crackpots raving on endlessly about American Psycho being the greatest book  of all time.  I liked it.  I wrote a review for it here.  But let's  admit--it has a lot of problems with plotting and the overall writing.  This book, however, is the first of his novels that appears to have been  slaved over.  It is the same, yet different (a theme present within this  dark fantasy.)  The characters are more human, less the yuppie automotons,  and moreso just despicable, self-absorbed semi-celebrities who have no  self-control, no real talent, and, ultimately, no confidence in anything  they do, regardless of how blustery and obnoxious they can get.  There  is a lot happening in Glamorama.  It is composed mostly of dialogue, and  the narrative itself is a questionable first person, something that really  is an extention of the remarkable, tape-recorder accuracy of how people  such as this speak.  This is probably Ellis' best book.  It grows leaps  and bounds chapter after chapter as you get more and more absorbed in the  horror being played out before you on the page.  There is maturity here,  perhaps indicating that Ellis is finally growing past his early success and  popularity, rattling off the fame all contraversy causes, and realizing  that he is, finally, a writer.	1998-12-30
US	52506680	R3NF2BX1RZWL5A	0060193409	876694899	Breakfast on Pluto	Books	5	3	3	N	N	another grim and tragic masterpiece	Patrick McCabe sure knows how to depress you.  Every book he has ever written is filled with characters who either are no longer in control of their own lives, or never had much of a chance to begin with.  This book is  about a psychologically crippled transvestite prostitute who somehow gets  involved in late 70s IRA political conspiracies, and is so unable to  understand what is going on that his own life becomes a graphic farce,  something that were he in his right mind he would cackle and puke about in  some bar he was out picking around for the next Sugar Daddy to take care of  him for a while.  It is a story that takes a little while to get in to, the  language weird and seemingly disconnected from the actual events of the  plot. But bear with it, as the overall quality of the prose, the story, the  idea, will soon come to overwhelm you.  And while this book isn't quite up  to the magnificence of The Butcher Boy (possibly the finest book I have  ever read),there is nothing wrong with anything within.  It is a  masterpiece, a wonderful, sorrowful novel from an author who can write  nothing but.  I urge you to give this book a chance to move you, to return  you to the more innocent times when the sheer tragedy of some made up story  could make you break down and weep over the sheer hopelessness of the human  condition.	1998-12-24
US	52506680	R3OQYM1ST16XXD	0553211951	25098900	Complete Short Stories of Mark Twain (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	49	61	N	N	a wonderful and diverse collection	This is an important book in American literature.  This collection truly shows off the massive range that Mark Twain had.  From the author of books as divergant as Huck Finn and Joan of Arc, to the humorous travel writings  and all the way past the bitter, hateful scribblings of his later life.<br />  These are some of the highlights, as I see it:<br />  &quot;The Story of  the Bad Little Boy&quot;, an early version of Twain's comprehenisive  pessism and it proves that there is really no such thing.  There's optimism  and there's realism.  &quot;A Day at Niagra&quot;, an obvious parody of his  own early newpaper feature writing.  Perhaps it was an abandoned assignment  on a trip to the falls and Twain had such a bad time he wrote this vicious,  sarcastic piece. There are numerous other wonderful stories along the way,  hilarious, mean-spirited, touching, beautiful, gently humorous and smile  factoring.  After the dreadful 1890s of Twain's life (lost a wife, a  daughter, a fortune and another kid got sick), sometimes a few of the  stories are near-misses.  Still always amusing, but something is missing.  Then, at recurring times over the last decade of his life, Mark Twain got  angry.  He popped the blister that became &quot;The Man That Corrupted  Hadleyberg&quot;, a brutal profile of mankind's inate greed and selfishness  and how there will always be someone out there to laugh and enjoy your  misery.  &quot;The $30,000 Bequest&quot; is a heart-breaking tale about  delusion and wasted lives, and how even the thought of money corrupts  absolutely.  &quot;Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven&quot; is a  mercilessly blasphemous account of Heaven being no different, really, from  the earth, the same classist behavior, the same tragic dreams of a better  life never to be had.  It shoots a hole the size of, well, Heaven in this  shaky mythology.<br />  Finally, we visit with &quot;The Mysterious  Stranger&quot;, a categorically violent attack on the idea of God.  It  demystifies so many absurdities organized religion tells you to take for  granted, don't be surprised if you lose your faith after reading this short  novel.  It is one of the ultimate masterworks of satirical tragedy ever  produced by a writer and is desperately in need of some ingenious filmmaker  to produce an R-rated animated movie.  Hell, anyone out there who may  chance across this add, I'm willing to write the screenplay or assist in  production in some way.  I have some experience and can do this one TOP  NOTCH.<br />  Enough advertising--all in all, a beautiful, necessary book.od.  It  demystifies so many absurdities organized religion tells you to take for  granted, don't be surprised if you lose your faith after reading this short  novel.  It is one of the ultimate masterworks of satirical tragedy ever  produced by a writer and is desperately in need of some ingenious filmmaker  to produce an R-rated animated movie.  Hell, anyone out there who may  chance across this add, I'm willing to write the screenplay or assist in  production in some way.  I have some experience and can do this one TOP  NOTCH.<br />     Enough advertising--all in all, a beautiful, necessary book.	1998-10-30
US	52506680	R3304101B7F7XN	0345379659	717495154	Harlot's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	2	5	N	N	fascinating	I understand there has been a lot of criticism of this book by some of Mailer's old counter-culture enemies.  His Nixon hate list rivals, hired by some angry politician who will stop at nothing to absolutely destroy Norman no matter what and oh goddamnit, get him out of my sight oh get him out of my sight--his vision burns me!<br />  Well, anyway, this is some of the sense of horror of the seeming, ultimate motivation for writing this book--Mailer has always loved to cause trouble.  And what we get is a wonderfully written book, smoothly plotted along with twists and turns and about faces and it goes on and on and on--now we know what Norman was thinking when it he made it so long.  He had taken many years off--his previous book Tough Guys Don't Dance, a so-so take on tough-guy, crime drama.  Some hard-boiled plot that's really violent and goes off to--really nowhere.  This book, on the other hand, is endless.  Mailer finished in on page 1410 with &quot;To Be Conti! nued . . .&quot;  A frightening thought I immensely look forward to.	1998-08-04
