US	52505885	R3HJFS26I2FGCR	080213064X	353044516	Citizen Tom Paine	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Don't Know Much About History?	Let's play word association. Thomas Paine. Did you say Common Sense? So did I. In fact, that's about all I knew of Paine before picking up Howard Fast's piece of historical fiction about the revolutionary. It's not surprising that this should be what Paine is best remembered for. The \\"small book\\" appears to have been a bigger hit than the Da Vinci Code and was read by people across the intellectual spectrum. Paine became known to American soldiers and militiamen as \\"Common Sense\\". Paine was perhaps America's first motivational speaker. <br /> <br />There is more to Paine than Common Sense, however, and Howard Fast does a marvelous job leading us up to the point that Paine writes his masterpiece and beyond to his eventual demise and ridicule until his death. Along the way, Paine wrote a series of \\"Crisis\\" papers that picked up where Common Sense left off and re-inspired discouraged fighters. It is to Paine that we owe the line \\"these are the times that try men's souls.\\" Paine later tried to become a revolution mercenary, trying his hand (unsuccessfully) in England and (arguably more successfully) in France. He was so well received in France that he became a deputy to the National Assembly. <br /> <br />A better historian -- or high school student -- would probably already know all of this about Paine. If you fall into that category, Citizen Tom Paine may be a waste of time. But if your knowledge of this gruff, intelligent, less-than-handsome revolutionary is as shallow as mine was, Citizen Tom Paine is a worthwhile read that has become a classic piece of historical fiction.	2005-07-24
US	52505885	R8QEA9VCPC5FI	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Son of a Preacher Man	Gilead currently has the dubious honor of being number 16 on the New York Times bestseller list, placing it at the top of what the NYT calls its \\"extended list\\" but putting it just out of reach of being included on the list printed in the newspaper itself.  It also has the (much less dubious) honor of having won this year's Pulitzer Prize for fiction. <br /> <br />Marilynne Robinson may not be a household name, but (although few would admit it) she was known in literary circles for being a one-hit-wonder with her highly acclaimed 1981 novel Housekeeping.  Sure, there were essays and book reviews and non-fiction publications, but a good second novel following a well-received first novel is a difficult achievement.  (What was it that Salinger wrote after Catcher in the Rye?)  With Gilead, Robinson defied expectations by producing a brilliant novel that is so well written that it is practically a 250-page poem from father to son. <br /> <br />Gilead takes place in Iowa (which, by the way, is where Robinson teaches at the Writer's Workshop).  It is the 1950s and Reverend John Ames, in his 70s, is coming to the end of his life.  He decides to write a letter to his seven-year-old son to pass along his family's history and whatever words of wisdom he can muster.  These themes - family history dating back three generations and musings on life, goodness, and religion - make up the first half of the novel and there is a beautiful observation, insight, or phrase on almost every page.  Ames is a good man who does not know bitterness.  He believes in the greatness of God and the goodness of people, even if people cannot always get along with each other. <br /> <br />By the second half of the novel, Ames gets sidetracked from his philosophical discussion and begins to discuss his concerns about his godson John Ames Boughton.  Boughton has always unnerved Ames, and his sudden reappearance at the end of Ames's life brings suspicion and fear into the pastor's otherwise calm and poetic writing.  While the Boughton storyline creates a plot where there might otherwise be none, it crowds out the perfect phrases and gentle compassion abundant in the first half of the novel. <br /> <br />Gilead is a tribute to mid-western America, to religion, and to life.  Robinson's narrator - and Robinson herself - has a knack for discovering and describing beauty in what most would see as banal and common.  Would that we all could have the patience and wisdom of Reverend Ames and that we could have a father willing and able to pass along lessons from his mistakes for us to ignore.  Gilead lives up to its potential almost fully and deserves all of the rave reviews it has received.  Perhaps Salinger will be inspired.	2005-06-14
US	52505885	R3UILZ6SE7BI4B	044921978X	388376334	The Gift of Asher Lev	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Don't Judge It By It's Cover	In my review of Chaim Potok's My Name is Asher Lev, I admitted that I was reluctant to read the sequel out of fear that it could not be as satisfying.  My fear was unfounded.  The Gift of Asher Lev is a wonderful novel and those who enjoyed My Name is Asher Lev will be happy to find Asher twenty years later with a wife and two children living, if not happily, at least contentedly in southern France.  That is until page 6.  Coming off a successful but poorly reviewed art show in Paris, Asher learns that his uncle has died and takes his family with him back to Brooklyn for the first time. <br /> <br />Unlike the first Asher Lev novel, where Asher was shunned by the leaders of his Hasidic Jewish community because of his controversial painting, the tension in The Gift of Asher Lev revolves around the Ladovers wanting him - or part of him - back.  Asher's parents get to know his wife and children, and everyone except our hero is happy with this arrangement.  Asher, however, has trouble exorcising his old demons: he fears another anonymous death threat, he can't find the inspiration to paint, and he just doesn't feel comfortable in Brooklyn anymore.  Asher's father still does not understand him or his art, but anger and frustration have subsided to a sort of resigned sadness. <br /> <br />The Gift of Asher Lev introduces the importance of riddles in Hasidism, which seems as much a suspense-building technique by Potok as a true Jewish tradition.  Frustratingly, Potok does not give answers to some of the riddles the characters evoke.  But the biggest riddle of all - the heart of the story - is rather clear early on, making the book more readable rather than less suspenseful.  Though he puts them off throughout most of the novel, Asher ultimately has some important choices to make.  He makes them in the final ten pages of the book, keeping the reader engaged to the very last page. <br /> <br />Now, about that cover: it's awful.  It looks like the cover to some sci-fi/romancefusion novel.  It's got a picture of a blue-eyed man with his blow-dried hair, resembling Harrison Ford in Return of the Jedi but looking nothing like any of the characters in The Gift of Asher Lev (Asher is still a Hasidic Jew, after all).  It's got smaller pictures of a pudgy young boy and an old, white-bearded man who I guess are Asher's son and father.  Are they trying to turn readers off?  If there's ever a time that the old adage fits, this may be it.  If you can get past the cover, you are in for a rewarding read.	2005-06-06
US	52505885	RY8DZDHLOD1VL	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Read On	About half way through Life of Pi, the story begins to pick up: teenager Pi Patel finds himself alone on a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger.  Up until now we have learned about Pi's childhood and in particular his fascination with religion -- Pi considers himself to be Hindu, Christian, and Muslim.  Whereas leaders from these religions represent Pi's spiritual side, his zookeeper father and his biology teacher represent Pi's rational, scientific side.  The two pieces of Pi become whole as the narrator spends months adjusting tactics in order to remain alive on a small craft with a natural predator. <br /> <br />Pi's story gets more fanciful as it progresses, sometimes just skirting the edge of the reader's suspended disbelief.  We know from the beginning that our narrator survives this ordeal, but it is not until the end that we learn the true meaning of Pi's adventure.  Rare is the ending that pushes the reader to consider what he has just read in a different light; Life of Pi succeeds in this. <br /> <br />Martel takes his time getting to the heart of the story - too long, I would argue.  Part One certainly sets the scene for the adventure to come, is essential in order to understand Martel's greater meaning, and teaches a great deal about animals and zoos to boot.  But if you find yourself slugging through this (as I did at times) and are considering putting the book down, try instead skipping to Part Two, which begins with the jarring, short sentence: \\"The ship sank.\\"  Life of Pi is worth finishing, and it would be a shame to stop early on and miss the better story.	2005-05-25
US	52505885	RIK5ZKKEGJD7P	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	3	8	13	N	N	A Seminal Work	The Economist recently suggested that September 11, 2001 is the contemporary novelist's biggest dilemma: impossible to ignore but doomed to failure if addressed.  Jonathan Safran Foer's Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, narrated by a boy whose father died in the World Trade Center that day, does not fail, but neither does it truly succeed.  The heart of the novel has young Oskar searching for months for the lock that belongs to a key his father left behind.  Along the way Oskar meets an array of characters to whom he is able to speak more openly about his father's death than to his mother or his counselor.  A subplot has Oskar's grandparents describe their childhoods, how they met, and their sad lives together. <br /> <br />Solitariness, loss, sadness, and the inability to communicate with those we love are themes throughout the novel.  Oskar's only honest conversation with his mother ends with him telling her he wished it were her, not his father, that had died that day.  Oskar's grandfather, having survived the bombing of Dresden during World War II but having lost his first love, loses his ability to speak and must carry around blank books in order to communicate.  The New Yorkers that Oskar meets on his quest all give the sense of longing to talk to someone - anyone - but of being incapable of connecting. <br /> <br />Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is about a boy, a family, a city, and a country dealing with the shock of September 11.  It is creative, well crafted, funny, and sad, and like the attacks themselves it is difficult to digest and interpret.  Foer is perhaps the first American novelist to address the September 11 attacks.  Time will tell if others are able to do it more deftly, but Foer's will undoubtedly be a seminal work.	2005-05-23
US	52505885	R12YWR92QMDRO	1576750876	646799350	Intrinsic Motivation at Work: Building Energy and Commitment	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Money Isn't Everything	Intrinsic Motivation is one of the better books on leadership and management that I have read recently.  Thomas targets both managers and employees, arguing that salaries and other extrinsic rewards are neither the sole nor the primary source of motivation in modern organizations.  In fact, monetary compensation is only a factor when making major life decisions (e.g., whether and when to change jobs) and when there is a question of fairness.  The best a manager can hope for, says Thomas, is perceived equity - that those doing the most and the best work are the best compensated.  Absent major life decisions and inequities, it is intrinsic rewards that will motivate employees. <br /> <br />Intrinsic motivation, according to Thomas, means giving employees an understanding of the purpose of the tasks they do and giving them whole tasks whenever possible.  Today's workforce is more highly educated than its forerunners.  Competition and the need for quick decision-making have reduced the reliance on middle managers and bureaucratic rulebooks.  In this environment, employees must be self-managing and they must have a sense of meaningfulness, choice, competence, and progress in the work that they do.  If they feel that they have all four of these factors, employees will feel a great sense of job satisfaction, be highly motivated, and perform well. <br /> <br />Thomas offers managers and employees suggestions on how to improve in each area if it seems that that factor is lacking.  In fact, if an employee is feeling unmotivated, Thomas suggests the employee consider which of the four \\"vital signs\\" is weak and address it accordingly.  It is important, for example, for employees at all levels to have a personal vision to boost their sense of meaningfulness.  Feeling that you have no choice in how you do your work?  Negotiate with your boss for more authority or, if all else fails, consider moving to another job that provides more choice.  A sense of competence comes from training and learning, but it also comes from patting oneself on the back for a job well done.  Progress can be measured in a number of ways, but one of the best is through contact with customers. <br /> <br />Thomas's book is only an overview into each of these areas.  He intends Intrinsic Motivation to be an all-encompassing model of employee motivation, and he generally succeeds.  Those seeking more details would need to use Thomas's notes to find articles and books on individual subjects discussed within the book.  And it is a shame that while Thomas characterizes outdated management styles as \\"paternalistic\\" he uses analogies of parents and children when describing intrinsic motivation.  Overall, however, Intrinsic Motivation is a healthy reminder to both managers and workers that there are many steps we can take to improve employee morale and productivity.  More money is better than less, Thomas agrees, but a true sense of purpose and worth can be priceless.	2005-05-15
US	52505885	R2U6QA9Y8M4GX0	0785920439	916754592	Histoire de Ma Vie (French Edition)	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Megalomaniacal fact or shocking fiction?	Two guidebooks I consulted recommended Casanova's Histoire De Ma Vie as entertaining reading during a trip to Venice.  Not only was I disappointed that most of the scenes take place outside of Venice, I found the entire enterprise pathetically self-indulgent and the editing in this abridged version (for I was not about to lug three large volumes to Venice nor spend three months of my life reading this nonsense) sub-par. <br /> <br />Early on, doubting an excuse given by a girl three years his elder, Casanova quotes Arioste: Perhaps it was true, but it was not credible.  This foreshadows Casanova's exploits as an 18th century libertine, conquering everyone from a 17-year-old chambermaid to his own daughter and then - yes - his 12-year-old granddaughter.  I don't doubt that Casanova slept with a lot of women (or should I say girls?), but it is rather amazing that in his memoirs, once he finds his prey, he is never disappointed.  Even when he tries to leave town without the satisfaction of having slept with his target, the elements conspire to bring him back where he began, only to have the young woman sleep with him, admitting that she lusted after him from the beginning. <br /> <br />I would have hoped that the unabridged version would create a better context for these vignettes to give the reader a more well-rounded picture of Casanova, including who he was and how he became famous.  Unfortunately, I doubt this is the case.  Editor Jean-Michel Gardair includes Casanova's well-documented run-in with Voltaire - one of only two chapters not dedicated to sexual conquest.  Here Casanova comes across as petty and marred by an inferiority complex, for which he tries to overcompensate.  Even endless sexual conquests are more satisfying than this exercise in self-aggrandizement.  But Gardair's choices of which conquests to include is also confusing.  He edits out what he calls in his own preface \\"the most famous of all his adventures,\\" where two women in the same convent become his mistresses at the same time without knowledge of the other. <br /> <br />For those interested in libertine literature, by all means go ahead and read Casanova's memoirs.  For the rest of us interested in a good read along the same theme, try instead Dangerous Liaisons, whose egotistical characters are at least entirely fictional.	2005-05-03
US	52505885	R30M3NNWBF6CSM	0935102175	11886417	Across Two Worlds: The Selected Prose of Eghishe Charents	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Introduction to Armenian Prose	Armenian speakers and English speakers don't always have an easy time understanding each other, even if they are speaking the same language.  The logic is different and how one makes a point, emphasizes meaning, and answers questions in the two languages and cultures varies greatly.  Armenian newspaper articles often come across as stilted and pointless in English.  I was therefore very pleasantly surprised by the flowing, engaging style in this excerpt of essays, novels, and letters from one of Armenia's greatest poets, Yegishe Charents. <br /> <br />The first chapter of Across Two Worlds is an excerpt from Yerevan's House of Corrections.  Charents wrote about it because he was sentenced to eight years there for shooting and wounding a woman who rebuffed his advances on one of the capital's main streets.  (He served just over a year of his sentence.)  From there the editors turn to excerpts from Charents's diary after his release and essays he wrote as an enthusiastic Communist.  One of the most enjoyable essays is The Deceased Gentleman, where Charents describes his somewhat antagonistic conversation with an exiled Armenian nationalist.  It is fascinating to see how both men can be right and so wrong at the same time.  The letters included in Across Two Worlds are less insightful than one would hope.  The editors speculate that the juicier ones, when Charents began to have doubts about Communism and Stalin, were destroyed lest the bearers become victims of Stalin's purges.  Saving the best for last, Across Two World closes with an excerpt of Charents's master novel Yerkir Nairi.  Based on the fall of Western Armenia to the Turks, the novel's characters are strong and the story engaging. <br /> <br />Charents wasn't the first mentally unbalanced literary genius, nor was he the only one to die, as is presumed, as a result of Stalin's purges.  He is, however, one of a very small number of Armenian-language poets whose writings have been translated into English.  Across Two Worlds is not perfect.  It suffers from the problem of all abridged works: not enough context when you need it.  It is, however, an excellent translation and a fine introduction to Armenian prose until either more works are translated or we all make a commitment to learn to read Armenian.	2005-05-02
US	52505885	R2TWGH0CCSQVWC	159017061X	221520480	The Day of the Owl (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	44	45	N	N	The Original Mob Story	Imagine a time before the Sopranos, before the Godfather, and before Mario Puzo.  The mafia, particularly in Italy, was virtually virgin territory in literature - no one dared write about it.  Leonardo Sciascia (pronounced \\"Sha-Sha\\") was one of the first to break the code of silence. <br /> <br />In the Day of the Owl -- a short, quick read that provides an excellent snapshot of a Sicilian village in the mid-20th century -- Sciascia transplants to unruly Sicily a northern Italian police inspector who has too much integrity to look the other way when a man is shot dead at dawn in a Siclian piazza.  Witnesses quickly disavow that they saw anything at all, but rumors begin to circulate.  Our hero, Captain Bellodi, is determined to see the assassin punished.  But the closer he gets to the truth, the higher the intervention from \\"His Excellency\\" and other well-placed members of society. <br /> <br />Sciascia's genius in the Day of the Owl is his subtle description of how the \\"so-called\\" mafia manages to keep its operations quiet, ranging from eliminating those who may speak up to using faulty logic to allow for plausible deniability.  Can you honestly believe, one mafiosi asks the captain, that an organization so vast, so organized and so powerful can actually exist?  Would the police not be able to discover and dismantle such an organization?  Would there not be public testimony in court cases?  The mafia is clearly just a rumor. <br /> <br />Sciascia's characters are strong, particularly fish-out-of-water Bellodi.  On leave in his native Parma, Bellodi considers abandoning what he fears is a futile assignment in Sicily.  He quickly decides to return, recognizing that Sicily has won him over, just as the Day of the Owl will win over the reader.	2005-04-26
US	52505885	RII762V0ZM0AG	0805061835	523514507	Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons from the Myths of Boyhood	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Behind the Mask	The majority of prisoners are men.  Violence is usually perpetrated by men.  Girls tend to be better students than boys.  Men are often reluctant to share their emotions.  The rate of Attention Deficit Disorder diagnosed among boys is ten times higher than among girls.  Boys are more likely than girls to commit suicide. <br /> <br />As a growing class of scholars studies women's issues and how girls learn and grow differently than boys, William Pollack has stepped forward and declared that boys, too, are different from girls.  In Real Boys, Pollack describes the \\"Boy Code\\", an ingrained set of rules among boys handed down from generation to generation that dictates that boys should not show fear, sadness, or anxiety in public.  Should a boy show any emotion aside from anger, society will shame him until he internalizes the code and follows it, thus retreating behind what Pollack calls a \\"mask of masculinity\\".  Once the mask is on, it is almost impossible to remove, and the \\"real boy\\" behind the mask all but disappears. <br /> <br />The masked boy is likely a familiar stereotype: he comes home at the end of the school day, ignores his parents, says that \\"everything's fine\\" at school and in his life, then slams the door to his bedroom to brood, listen to loud music, or punch a wall.  Only when some physical sign of trouble appears - a black eye, a suicide attempt - do parents finally have the proof to confirm their suspicions that everything is not really fine.  It need not be this way, says Pollack.  Parents and schools owe it to their boys to allow them to express their emotions in their own way.  They need to recognize that boys need many of the same things girls need, including close friendships, a family they can talk to, and the ability to share their fears and concerns with others.  Boys have their own timing and ways of expressing themselves, however.  Pollack describes the \\"timed silence syndrome\\": yes, the boy will brood, but at some point he will reemerge and want to reconnect with his family.  Unless mom and dad are prepared to interpret their son's signals, they may not spot them and miss this opportunity to get their son to open up.  The boy won't say \\"Gee, I'm really down today because of something that happened at school.\\"  Instead he will come out of his room and ask his mother what's for dinner or accept his father's invitation to fix the bike together. <br /> <br />Pollack's research is impressive and his style authoritative.  Men who read Real Boys may recognize themselves and, perhaps, their fathers in these pages.  Pollack's argument that many of men's emotional issues date back to early, traumatic separation from their mothers is a stretch, however.  And his conclusion that all boys who act out are simply deprived of love, attention, and understanding is rather utopian.  Nevertheless, Pollack's description of a \\"gender straightjacket\\" that forces men to funnel all feelings through the one acceptable emotion of anger (sometimes leading to violence) hits its mark.  His analysis that schools are failing boys by not recognizing their unique learning styles and instead tagging them as ADD or learning disabled is likewise frightening for anyone with a son. <br /> <br />Real Boys offers concrete suggestions to parents and teachers to avoid shaming boys and hardening them against a broad range of emotions.  If boys feel free to share in their own way what they are feeling, they will be more confident to stand up to peer pressure and get through their inevitable bouts of depression.  They will have stronger, healthier relationships and perform better at school.  And they will turn into real men who respect themselves and respect women.  Pollack's prescription is not a panacea, but his book is an important and useful read for any adult with a boy in his or her life.	2005-04-03
US	52505885	R2QGOBYLHPA8WR	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Heavenly	I sensed that David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas would be unlike any other book I've read when, about 40 pages into it, the storyline stopped at the end of the page mid-sentence. I flipped forward a bit, licked my fingers to unstick the pages, and counted the page numbers to determine what was amiss. Nothing, as it turns out - Mitchell intentionally stopped mid-sentence and flashed forward in time from the mid 19th century South Pacific to early 1930's Europe. <br /> <br />The back cover was of no help in trying to determine what the novel was about: \\"postmodern...Nabokovian...fiction that reveals how disparate people connect, how their fates intertwine, and how their souls drift across time like clouds across the sky.\\" Thanks. The back of the title page was a bit more helpful: the Library of Congress categorizes Cloud Atlas under \\"fate and fatalism.\\" Finally, in his acknowledgements, Mitchell hints that Nietzsche's philosophy will play a role in the novel. Now we're getting somewhere. <br /> <br />I won't give away how the six stories in Cloud Atlas, from six different times and settings, blend together. Each is presented in a unique style and voice, with five of the six reminding me of Toni Morrison, Ray Bradbury, Thomas Pynchon, Choderlos de Laclos, and a contemporary author of your choice. (The sixth is in the style of a sub-par mystery thriller.  Were the rest of the book not so brilliantly written, I would suspect Mitchell missed his mark here; as it is, it seems he intentionally low-browed this segment to add to the pulp fiction feel.) <br /> <br />Don't let any of this put you off. Cloud Atlas is neither intimidating nor obtuse. It is in fact fun to read. Amazing, then, that the novel comes across as optimistic when most segments begin after a major international conflict, racial and colonial domination is a major theme, and more than one of the major characters die before the novel's close. <br /> <br />One of the characters, evoking Cloud Altas's structure in musical terms, describes the novel thus: \\"a 'sextet for overlapping soloists'...each in its own language of key, scale, and color. In the first set, each solo is interrupted by its successor: in the second, each interruption is recontinued, in order. Revolutionary or gimmicky? Shan't know until it's finished.\\" I've finished and I can say that Cloud Atlas is perhaps 90 percent revolutionary and 10 percent gimmicky. Read it and decide for yourself.	2005-03-18
US	52505885	R1E386OELTNUFO	0393320367	224026761	The Return of Depression Economics	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not Just for Economists	The 1990s, if you remember the second half of that heady decade, was when many economies went haywire.  For a while, Mexico was the talk of the town (if that town included economists) with its currency crisis and resulting debt crisis.  Mexico soon gave way to Asia: Korea, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Indonesia were severely hit.  This was all in the context of Japan in recession since the beginning of the decade and experiencing, of all things, deflation and negative real interest rates.  And let's not forget Russia's devaluation and Brazil's economic woes. <br /> <br />The average American (and perhaps European) can be forgiven for yawning over such arcane topics as hedge funds, supply-side economics, and debt rescheduling.  But that is no excuse to ignore Paul Krugman's Return of Depression Economics, an engaging primer on how these economies went south and what governments can do to prevent similar disasters.  Krugman has always been, even before he went off the deep end in his column for the New York Times, controversial.  Vocal and egotistical, he has made a number of enemies in his brilliant career as one of the world's foremost economists.  He undoubtedly recruited a few more members to the Krugman anti-fan club with the publication of the Return of Depression Economics, where he calls supply-side economics a \\"set of silly ideas\\" and \\"a crank doctrine\\".  He argues that an orthodox free-market, laissez-faire ideology has clouded many economists' thinking, leading policy-makers to implement unsound policies that prolong developing countries' - and Japan's - recessions. <br /> <br />But forget Krugman's thesis.  His argument that Keynesian economics still has a place in today's world is less fascinating than his history of the crises in Latin America and Asia.  Krugman does his best to avoid jargon and present the subject to the layperson, writing in a casual, colloquial style.  Using the \\"Capitol Hill Babysitting Co-op\\" as a model, he easily explains what happensto economies when demand decreases and what the central government can do to stimulate this demand.  He walks the reader through how a lack of investor confidence can turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy and leave economies in a shambles.  And, of course, being Krugman, he takes every opportunity to point out when he was right in the past and others were wrong.	2005-02-24
US	52505885	R1AVV0Z2BU5NKZ	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Conspire to Read It	What would you do if you found that your rights as an American citizen were slowly, almost imperceptibly eroding over the course of two years?  If you couldn't prove that the government and society were plotting against you and others of similar background, but you knew in your gut that this was the case?  Would you ignore your instinct?  Rebel?  Integrate with the majority?  When must one fight for what one believes in and when is it time to run away? <br /> <br />Philip Roth tackles these questions in the Plot Against America, a case of truly revisionist history that has Charles Lindbergh defeating FDR in the 1940 presidential election.  The story revolves around seven-year-old Philip Roth, a Jewish boy from Newark, New Jersey.  Phillip is too young to fully comprehend world politics, but he does understand the havoc outside forces are wrecking on his family.  His father, once seen as invincible and unerring, is denied service and loses his job because he is Jewish; his brother becomes a promoter of the Lindbergh administration's program to relocate Jewish families; his cousin enlists in the Canadian army to fight the Nazis.  All Philip wants is for things to return to normal. <br /> <br />Roth's prose is sublime and his storyline almost entirely plausible.  With the Plot Against America, Roth touches upon what life must have been like for Jewish families in the early years of Nazi Germany.  He also hints at his frustration with the U.S. government today, with individual liberties being revisited in the name of security against terrorist attacks. <br /> <br />Whatever your background and whatever your politics, you will most likely enjoy The Plot Against America.  It is, so far, the best book from last year that I have read.	2005-02-21
US	52505885	RYMBQKL5KX4OJ	0375705767	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Art of the Long View	Let me start by saying that Robert Kaplan stole my idea.  Never mind that he published his book just as I began my drive from Yerevan, Armenia, to Almaty, Kazakhstan and back.  Never mind that he traveled from Budapest, Hungary to Merv, Turkmenistan from 1998-99, fully a year before my own trek.  The fact is that I was going to write a book just like Eastward to Tartary, and Kaplan beat me to it.  Fortunately for the publishing world, Kaplan did a better job than I could have done.    Kaplan's premise is that the old divides between Western and Eastern Europe, or more precisely between the West and the Ottoman Empire, still exist and that these will have a major impact on global affairs in the next decade or so.  He calls the region of the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus the \\"New Near East\\" and says that it may well be the \\"seismograph of world politics\\" in the 21st century.  By this he means the region is likely to make the headlines early this century, and it is to crises in this region that the West must be prepared to respond.  Interestingly, Kaplan leaves out of his travelogue the former Yugoslavia, Iran, and Iraq, stating that he has already written about these countries in previous publications.    Kaplan is a journalist for the Atlantic Monthly.  I was not surprised to see how well connected he was nor how insightful he was.  I was, however, surprised to see how well he mastered his history.  The purpose of his travels was to determine the effect of history and how a country's past will shape its future.  The future of a country is not a blank slate, Kaplan argues.  History, geography, and culture place limits on what is possible.  True leaders push those limits, he says, but Kaplan met few true leaders during his voyage.  He saw much that gave him hope, but he also saw much that caused him to despair.  The farther east he traveled, the greater the terrible effects of the breakup of the Soviet Union and, indeed, of the Ottoman Empire.  ThroughoutKaplan's journey, one question plagued him: should we intervene?  He offers no answers, but notes that the West intervened in Kosovo largely because of how close the Balkans are to Western Europe.  Following this logic, he concludes, there is no real interest, aside from oil and gas supplies, that would encourage the West to intervene if, say, Georgia imploded.  One feels that the Georgians and everyone else Kaplan meets understand this grim reality but accept it only reluctantly.  \\"We are European!\\" they all cry.  Kaplan himself is a bit obsessed with trying to determine where Europe or the West ends and Asia or the East begins.    Now almost five years old, Eastward to Tartary is less timely than at the beginning of the century.  In this recently post-9/11 world, it is hard to believe that Turkmenistan or Armenia would hijack American foreign policy more than radical Islam or Iraq has.  Kaplan's arguments that a NATO border that ends at Hungary and does not include Romania is both an echo of the pre-WWI balance of power and a precursor to rifts in the 21st century are now irrelevant with Romania joining NATO.  At the same time, his warnings that the economic wastelands of some of these countries are fomenting Islamic fundamentalism are prescient.    In his acknowledgements, the author thanks a young diplomat who helped Kaplan in Turkmenistan.  The same diplomat helped me on my journey through that part of the world.  Hey, maybe I can convince Random House to finance a sequel.  How does \\"Central Asian Stories\\" sound?  No?  It's one thing to travel and have the ideas; it's quite another to publish a compelling travelogue.  Kaplan has done this, and he has earned my respect.	2005-02-12
US	52505885	R8HA9FHA3VQH	0066209447	722701151	The News from Paraguay: A Novel	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Good News	The News from Paraguay won the 2004 National Book Award (NBA), a move that surprised many.  Lily Tuck is not a household name and her novel about the Paraguayan War (1865-1870), that country's dictator, and his mistress may or may not be the best work produced by an American author last year.  But the purpose of the NBA is not necessarily to recognize the best; rather it is to raise awareness of novels that might otherwise have been overlooked and to promote reading in general.  From this perspective, the NBA committee has chosen well: The News from Paraguay is worth seeking out to learn a piece of ignored history from this lost corner of the world. <br /> <br />Tuck's novel is historical fiction: the dictator Franco and his mistress Ella Lynch, along with many other characters, really did exist.  In particular, Charles Washburn, the American diplomat stationed in Asuncion at the time and accused of conspiring against Franco, went on to write a History of Paraguay that became one of Tuck's main sources for the novel.  The minor fictional characters are well crafted.  They contribute to the reader's understanding of the time and place instead of crowding out real people and events -- a flaw of inferior pieces of historical fiction.  All of the characters blend toghther well to tell a tragic tale of greed, war, and despotism. <br /> <br />Ella Lynch, the main character, comes across as both innocent and conniving.  Her breathless letters upon arrival in Paraguay back to her aristocratic friends in France and her diary entries, filled with emphatic exclamation points and urgent underlining, hint that she is blind to the sad realities of this undeveloped country.  Later, when she begins to share her uncertainties with one of her correspondents, she tears up the letter to replace it with simple pleasantries.  Tuck develops Franco as a classic megalomaniac, ruthless enough to imprison and ultimately kill his siblings and arrogant enough to cause tens of thousands to die just so he can save face. <br /> <br />The writing is simple and straightforward.  The scenes are broken up into segments of just a few paragraphs or even less than a page.  One small part is exactly one sentence long.  It is as though Tuck wrote the News from Paraguay for the harried (or young) reader who cannot focus for more than a few minutes at a time.  The entire novel, in fact, is a short 250 pages.  All of which leads me to wonder if this is why the NBA committee chose the News from Paraguay as its winner: why intimidate potential readers with short attention spans when there is a beautifully crafted novel that also happens to be easy to read?	2005-01-23
US	52505885	R3FWJ0QKI6B08I	2221090810	369140110	Et si c'etait vrai... (French Edition)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Fluff a la francaise	Marc Levy, if I remember correctly, had all four of his novels on the French bestseller list recently.  When I asked him last month which one I should read, he shrugged his shoulders as if they were all the same and replied: The first one?  As it turns out, Et si c'etait vrai... has been translated into English (If Only It Were True) and DreamWorks has bought the movie rights.  The movie, called Just Like Heaven, is currently filming with Reese Witherspoon and Mark Ruffalo in the lead roles and is scheduled for release this fall. <br /> <br />With Witherspoon and Ruffalo in the mix, you can guess that this is not War and Peace.  Et si c'etait vrai... is a fantasy about Lauren, a young, attractive San Francisco doctor who has a car accident and is pronounced dead (a lesson that young, attractive doctors should definitely wear their seatbelts).  She manages to come back to life, but only to be in a coma indefinitely.  We flash forward a few months to her apartment, recently inhabited by Arthur, a young, attractive San Francisco architect who is taking a bath.  He opens his bathroom closet to find Lauren snapping along to the music and learns that only he can see, hear, and touch her spirit while her body remains in the hospital.  Antics ensue, there is a bit of banter back and forth between Lauren and Arthur, and finally a denouement develops that is enjoyable and satisfying enough. <br /> <br />Levy sticks to what he knows in his first novel: he lived in San Francisco for almost a decade and he was an architect before becoming an author.  The novel is flawed, in particular when it gets off track from the adventure of Lauren and Arthur to delve into Arthur's past and the psychological scars it has left.  But it is light reading and a good chance for Americans to work their French and to get a glimpse of French pop culture.  Yes, there is such a thing, and Marc Levy is in the heart of it.	2005-01-23
US	52505885	R1LFO3K6HOQVO5	0787909351	95521317	The Leader of the Future: New Visions, Strategies and Practices for the Next Era	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Future Is Now	The Drucker Foundation in 1996 asked leadership experts and proven leaders in the private sector to contribute to a leadership compendium, the proceeds of which would be donated to charity.  The theme is clear from the title: what will the leader of the future look like, and what skills will he or she need?  Over 30 authors answered the call and together provide a surprisingly consistent - if occasionally contradictory - view of tomorrow's organizations and their leadership needs. <br /> <br />The benefit of this approach is that it forces the authors to cut to the chase.  Far too many leadership/management books waste space with folksy anecdotes and maddening metaphors.  These are, thankfully, generally absent from The Leader of the Future, leaving almost 300 pages of substance for the reader.  Another plus is the reader's ability to find new leadership authors that appeal to him or her that might otherwise have gone overlooked. <br /> <br />According to these experts, the business world is changing at a pace not seen in generations.  (This refrain, I admit, gets old rather quickly and makes the experts seem like leaders of the past at points.)  In order for organizations to survive and thrive, they need a new type of leadership.  Today, CEOs and heads of organizations are the leaders.  Tomorrow, they argue, CEOs will need a new set of skills, and anyone at any level in the organization will be called on to lead.  Globalization, technology, mobile jobs, and an unprecedented amount of information mean that no one person can be \\"the\\" decisionmaker.  Instead, organizations need to behave like market-economy nation-states: they need to be less hierarchical, allow internal competition, give their employees more decisionmaking authority, and train their employees to make informed decisions. <br /> <br />The idea of training is key - virtually all of the authors agree that leaders are made, not born.  At the same time, they argue that all leaders have certain qualities, including high energy, vision, and other qualities that are hard to teach.  Perhaps this is why one chapter focuses on the underanalyzed quality of followership.  Certain segments are broad and theoretical, others offer concrete proposals to develop leaders of the future. <br /> <br />What does all of this mean for the average reader?  Many organizations are still hierarchical with strict rules and regulations.  There is, one could argue, only so far we can go towards decentralizing, flattening and empowering.  But that would be yesterday's way of thinking.  The leader of the future will find ways to work within these constraints, will have a vision of the organization that will guide him or her, and will allow for the empowerment of subordinates.  This somewhat populist view of the leader of the future will at a minimum provoke the reader to consider what kind of leader he or she is and whether he or she is prepared to be a leader of the future. <br /> <br />The Leader of the Future is one of the few books on leadership that is worth buying.  Borrow it or buy it, but read it today to be prepared for tomorrow.	2005-01-06
US	52505885	R83Z9IR0BFIJY	0330427377	570121918	The Line Of Beauty	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Odd Man Out	As I write this, The Line of Beauty by Alan Hollinghurst is number 5 on W.H. Smith's paperback bestseller list.  It won this year's Man Booker prize for best fiction produced in the Commonwealth or Republic of Ireland, and it appears on the \\"Best Books of 2004\\" lists of the New York Times, the Economist, and other publications.  What, one may wonder, is all the fuss about? <br /> <br />The setting is 1980's London, and our hero is Nick Guest, a recent graduate renting a room from the wealthy Fedden family.  As his name implies, Nick is rather out of place in this arrangement and, in fact, in contemporary life in general.  At the opening of the novel, Nick has only recently come to terms with his homosexuality.  He is timid and cautious, finding himself quite daring when he responds to a classified ad placed by a man only somewhat older than him.  Flash forward to 1986.  Nick has moved on to another relationship and his confidence has grown to the point that he is picking up strangers in the men's room of local gay hangouts and inviting them back for threesomes.  He also has a drug habit, shared and supplied by his rich lover.  AIDS has become an issue, but it is still only on the horizon, not directly affecting Nick or his friends for the time being.  The story will come together the following year, with Nick never quite fitting in but always striving to find the beauty of the situation or setting.  The \\"line of beauty\\" of the title refers to a double curve, much like the letter S.  The story seems to curve from innocence to carefree hardness and finally to a sort of defiant regret.  Much like the decade itself, the novel meanders at first, picking up steam around 1986 and coming to a crashing conclusion following Black Monday. <br /> <br />Nick is a scholar of Henry James, and Hollinghurst uses James repeatedly to shed light on the decade's decadence and on Nick's reluctant willingness to get caught up in it.  Nick is asked at one point what James would think of the well-to-do guests at a dinner hosted by the Feddens.  \\"Well,\\" he replies, \\"he'd have been very kind to us, he'd have said how wonderful we were and how beautiful we were...and we wouldn't have realized until just before the end that he'd seen right through us.\\"  <br /> <br />This is not a novel to be read during stolen moments on the morning commute or just before dinner.  It should be read with concentration and time, in bed just before falling asleep, say, or on a lazy Sunday afternoon.  There is more setting than plot, each chapter a snapshot of the social milieu Nick is caught up in.  Here we are at the vacation home of the Feddens in southern France, with the upper class family trying to impress their even wealthier and unimpressible guests.  There we are in Nick's home town as Gerald meets Nick's parents and takes part in a regional fair only to show his contempt for and lack of understanding of the local residents.  And now we are at a gay swimming hangout, with men flirting with each other openly and swimming suits optional.  Early on the slowness of the plot was bothersome.  Where was it all going, after all?  I misplaced the book and wondered whether it was worth spending the money to replace it.  By the time I was two-thirds of the way through, I accidentally left the book at the office.  It was all I could do not to run out in the driving rain to retrieve it immediately; waiting until the next day to read the next chapter was torture.  Perhaps that, then, is what all the fuss is about.	2004-12-06
US	52505885	R1S2NMWU826CYF	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	4	25	28	N	N	What Me, Worry?	In high school I sometimes said that I was against the environment.  It was too easy to be for the environment, I reasoned.  Who was going to keep these people honest? <br /> <br />Enter Bjorn Lomborg and his 2001 book, the Skeptical Environmentalist.  Lomborg argues that the world is not going down the tubes, but that instead things are getting better.  He begins with a description of what he calls the Litany: a seemingly endless list of environmental concerns portrayed in the media and elsewhere, ranging from toxic pesticides to a Malthusian concern that we will eventually run out of food to feed an ever increasing population.  He says that environmental organizations, researchers, and the media all have a vested interest in scaring the general public and making it disproportionately concerned about the state of the environment.  He then moves on to what he considers the best method to measure the true state of the world: human welfare.  According to Lomborg, not only are we in a state of unprecedented prosperity, but this prosperity will continue for as far out as our models project. <br /> <br />One by one, Lomborg dismisses the most basic of environmental concerns.  Remember those population projections that showed an exponential increase in the world's population beginning in the 20th century?  Lomborg takes the UN's most recent projections and shows that the population will start to level out by about 2050.  In fact, he states that the exponential increase is not due to sky-high fertility rates in developing countries, but rather to a dramatic increase in the life span of the average person in the developed world.  Food shortages?  Fear not, the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization predicts more food for more people for the foreseeable future.  Energy?  We will continue to refine our technology so that we do not run out of fossil fuels.  Besides, solar power will be competitive by mid-century.  Surely water must be a problem?  Nope, the world has enough water for everyone.  The problem is access to water, and Lomborg argues that we need to manage our water better to allow more equal distribution. <br /> <br />Lomborg dedicates six chapters to pollution issues.  Air pollution is diminishing, he shows.  London, for example, has the cleanest air it has seen since monitoring began in the mid-16th century.  The Exxon Valdez crash of 1989 was \\"a very unfortunate accident\\" that despoiled the coastline and killed a large number of animals in their natural habitat.  Or did it?  It killed 250,000 birds - precisely the same number that die every day in the U.S. by colliding with plate glass.  According to Lomborg, \\"the [Prince William] sound has almost fully recovered or will do so within decades.\\"  Phew. <br /> <br />Discussing \\"tomorrow's problems\\", Lomborg maintains that the cancer risk of pesticides is blown out of proportion, that many fewer species are becoming extinct than most people think (between 4 and 100 species become extinct each year, he says, not the popular notion of 40,000 species per year), and that global warming is only partially caused by greenhouse gasses and in any case the models used to predict the extent of global warming aren't very good. <br /> <br />The Skeptical Environmentalist does not argue that everything is for the best in this best of all possible worlds.  In fact, Lomborg's main point is that we live in a world of limited resources and we should accurately inform ourselves in order best to allocate these resources.  For example, if pesticides cause 20 cancer deaths per year in the U.S., should we thus ban pesticides?  By doing so agriculture will be less productive, we will need to convert more land to farmland (leading to deforestation), and the price of fruits and vegetables will rise.  A price rise will encourage consumers to eat less cancer-fighting fruits and vegetables.  The result: an estimated 26,000 more people will die of cancer.  Oh, and it will cost society $20 billion to boot.How about the Kyoto Protocol's proposal to cap greenhouse gasses?  Not only will Kyoto have a minor effect on climate change (which isn't as big a deal as people make it out to be anyway, says Lomborg), it will cost society somewhere between $75-345 billion, money that could otherwise be spent on HIV screening, feeding the hungry, or reducing poverty in the developing world. <br /> <br />It is in making such comparisons that Lomborg is at his best.  Yes, there are legitimate environmental concerns, he agrees.  But we need accurate information so that we can understand the consequences of any action we take, prioritize among environmental concerns, and make proper trade-offs between investing in the environment and, say, health care.  On top of that, a richer society will have more money to spend on non-environmental and environmental concerns, so decreasing poverty and promoting growth in the third world should be our priorities. <br /> <br />Though Lomborg makes an effort to distinguish between the progress of the developed and developing worlds, he tends to look at aggregate figures that ignore real local or individual concerns.  Plus, just because we can save billions of dollars by not implementing a specific environmental program does not mean that the money will indeed be used for such a noble cause as to feed the hungry.  Indeed, Lomborg himself points out that it would be inefficient to institute an environmental tax that would be earmarked for a specific purpose.  His argument that the money can better be used elsewhere is therefore more theoretical than real. <br /> <br />Lomborg seems to confuse causality at times.  Many of the data sets he uses to measure environmental improvement only go back to the 1970's.  Why?  Because this is when environmental issues became a general concern for the U.S. and the Western world.  This is when the media and environmental groups started using their \\"the sky is falling\\" approach to educate the public about the environment - and it worked.  The EPA was established in 1970.  The UN Environment Programme was established in 1972.  These organizations were created, in part, in response to the public's concern for the environment.  Lomborg dismisses this very notion on the second-to-last page of his book: \\"No, things have gone so well because we have worked hard to improve our situation.\\" <br /> <br />Is Lomborg right in the end?  I have no idea.  But the Skeptical Environmentalist will help readers look at news stories about an environmental doomsday in a new light.  And it will certainly give me plenty of ammunition for my next high school reunion.	2004-11-14
US	52505885	R8UITU1KWJ2PV	0814470424	958595738	Managing Up: 59 Ways to Build a Career-Advancing Relationship with Your Boss	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Basic advice with few details	The basic premise of Managing Up is a good one: yes there are problem bosses, and the best way to deal with them is to be pro-active and not assume that it's up to them to recognize their deficiencies and change on their own.  As much as we want our bosses to change spontaneously, we must recognize that we can always do better in our own work.  By being a better employee, we can improve our relationships with our bosses.  This is absolutely correct. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Managing Up chooses breadth instead of depth.  With 59 tips that range from \\"do good work\\" to \\"deal effectively with stereotypes and prejudices\\", it provides few concrete details in each of its short chapters.  In one chapter, the authors suggest becoming familiar with such thinkers as Blanchard, Drucker, Weisbord, and Hertzberg (surprisingly, they omit Covey), but do not include a single one of their books in the bibliography and suggested reading list.  In another they describe four different types of bosses and suggest that you may need to adapt to your boss's style, but leave it to the reader to determine how to do so.  Perhaps this would have been less frustrating if they had included a list of suggested further reading at the end of each chapter. <br /> <br />Managing Up does not sugar-coat its advice.  It suggests mediation rather than law suits in cases of discrimination, warning that being right isn't always enough (unless you are fighting for others who come after you).  Although there is the occasional innovative tip such as writing a brief weekly report of your accomplishments, much of the advice in this book is common sense.  While it's not a bad idea to read some common sense advice every once in a while, especially if you are on bad terms with your boss, many people who take the initiative to read Managing Up will already be doing much of what the book suggests.  For the rest, reading Managing Up may be a good use of their time.	2004-10-08
US	52505885	R3EFSX1ND3QP9	1886913056	974280688	Passage to Ararat (A Ruminator Find)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Coming of (middle) age	Michael Arlen takes a very novel approach to discovering his roots.  He freely admits early on that he doesn't even like Armenians, although he himself is of Armenian descent.  Arlen's father shielded him from the burdens that virtually all Armenians bare: that of the genocide/massacres of 1915.  It is not until his father's death that Arlen begins to interact with the Armenian community and ultimately takes a trip to Soviet Armenia.  He describes the country and the people in a detached manner and with a dry sense of humor.  His research of Armenian history is rather academic at first.  Ultimately he is affected by the great suffering of his people. <br /> <br />Arlen asks many questions that he cannot and does not answer.  His references to certain Armenian qualities as \\"childlike\\" was offensive, and his attempt to examine the Armenian race using traditional psychological analysis, determining finally that Armenians are burdened with self-hate, had its limitations.  But I do not view Passage to Ararat as a scholarly treatise.  It is instead one man's journey to the land of his ancestors in order to come to grips with who he is and whether he should be proud of that.	2004-10-04
US	52505885	R1O1PMITAHAB0M	2213613206	848195091	Nouv' Elles	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quite novel	With a title like Nouv'Elles, I expected Jacques Attali's latest work to be a collection of loosely connected short stories about women.  It is, instead, a novel, and an excellent one at that.  The first chapter does read like a short story and would stand on its own against anything the New Yorker puts out.  Throughout the novel, Attali gives the characters life, creates strong women, and covers the same period of twenty-five years and many of the same events from a variety of perspectives.  All of the novel's characters are connected by a central person and defining event from earlier in their lives.<br /><br />Attali's French is very approachable for the non-native speaker.  Even if you do not pick up every word, you will easily understand the gist of what is going on.	2004-09-26
US	52505885	R1B7IZMQ9TPKC9	0071388591	633156962	The Leadership Secrets of Colin Powell	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A model to emulate	Oren Harari has pulled together some of Colin Powell's words of wisdom, many of which were already published in Powell's autobiography, and turned them into a useful leadership book.  Harari fleshes out many of Powell's ideas and gives memorable examples of what he believes Powell means when he says, for example, that \\"being responsible sometimes means pissing people off.\\"  This book is a tribute to Powell and can at times come across as interpreting the teachings of the Messiah, but since Powell is one of the few leaders in today's world that is virtually universally respected, this is forgivable.  The Leadership Secrets of Colin Powell is a valuable addition to any leadership library.	2004-09-19
US	52505885	R3064LDUWILWDA	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Read it now	Jonathan Franzen has a gift.  It is the gift of three-dimensional characters, the gift of a fascinating storyline, the gift of impressive details about a wide array of subjects.  He has written a contemporary novel that may or may not stand the test of time, but will always be a testament to the heyday, economic boom, bubble's-about-to-burst, individualist culture of the United States at the turn of the century.  The Corrections is the story of an elderly couple and their adult children.  One by one, the novel focuses on each of the three siblings and their parents, sifting through their failures, their successes, their psychoses, their psychological games with others, and, above all, their dysfunctionality.  But this is not a depressing novel; it ventures through the range of emotions that one would expect to find in a family over the course of a year and emerges with bitter-sweet optimism.  Simply put, this is the best contemporary novel I have read.  I can't wait for Franzen's next novel; it will go directly to the top of my wish list.	2004-09-19
US	52505885	R3ASHS7BDB1H4N	0785266666	716063546	Developing the Leader Within You	Books	2	49	61	N	N	For beginners	You will not be wasting your time by reading Developing The Leader Within You.  If you are new to the field of leadership, this is a nice introduction.  If you are an experienced leader, the book will remind you of some basic principles that you might be neglecting.  It does not delve deeply into any one area, and it does not really break new ground.  The quotes are selectively footnoted and many of the anecdotes are apocryphal.  Maxwell is given to cute turns of phrase that he hopes will be interpreted as words of wisdom (e.g., \\"People do not care how much you know until they know how much you care.\\").  All in all, this is a fine basic introduction, but I was hoping for more.  This should not be the only leadership book you read.	2004-09-18
US	52505885	R3UKCCLBUG4ZPU	0679777431	999153365	The Game of Kings (Lymond Chronicles, 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Break out your dictionary	Is Dorothy Dunnett the modern Rabelais?  Her combination of action, vocabulary, cultural references, and intelligence is impressive.  The Game of Kings starts with a simple phrase: \\"Lymond is back.\\"  (Actually, it starts with a list of the cast of characters, which you will need in order to follow the events of the novel.)  This is a clever beginning for what is the first of a six-volume series about Francis Crawford of Lymond. <br /> <br />At the beginning of the Game of Kings, Lymond has been outlawed from Scotland and has returned to his native country with much fanfare.  He immediately raids his mother's home, stabs a pregnant woman, and then sets the place on fire, nice guy that he is.  From there he roams Scotland and northern England to find three men who can help him with some unknown task, all the while pursued less by Scottish authorities than by his own brother.  The novel's climax is enthralling, including a poignant scene involving the two brothers and a gripping trial that reveals the denouement.  The characters, thought a bit muddled at first, are memorable and engaging. <br /> <br />Thought it took me some time to \\"get into\\" the Game of Kings, Dunnett won me over with her double-entendres and her use of chess metaphors to summarize the action.  Though I might not rush to read Queen's Play tomorrow, I am certainly anxious to read the first novel of her House of Niccolo series, which promises to be just as rewarding as the Game of Kings.  But I doubt it will be as linguistically enriching.	2004-09-18
US	52505885	R3175PANPGW050	0393963187	748070915	House and Senate (2nd edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Size matters	Baker makes one rather basic but essential point in his book discussing the differences between the two chambers of Congress: the small size of the Senate compared to the House makes it a distinct, more generalist, and more elite body.  Journalists understand this, lobbyists understand this, and congressmen themselves understand this, argues Baker.  His argument is convincing, even if he relies too heavily at times on senators who previously served in the House.  Yes, these individuals are uniquely qualified to discuss the processes and the interaction of members, but are they not also pre-disposed to consider the Senate a more prestigious body?  This is a minor quibble.  In all, House and Senate will teach the reader about the distinctions between the two bodies.  In doing so, it tells the layman much about how the legislative branch of government really works.	2004-09-02
US	52505885	R1MAYLD4Z2SC82	0312144075	719038132	The Samurai's Garden: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hidden beauty	A story of love, loss, and beauty, the Samauri's Garden is a wonderful novel about a Chinese young man who travels to a small, oceanside village in Japan to recover from an illness in the late 1930's.  The novel is written as a journal, with the main character, Stephan, revealing what he learns and feels with each passing day.  Early on, Stephan meets Matsu, a gruff servant in Stephan's father's countryside house.  There is more to Matsu than meets the eye, Stephan suspects, and he is right.  Stephan also eventually meets Sachi, a woman scarred by leprosy.  With each day that goes by, the Japanese invasion of China gains ground, but the friendships that Stephan forms are stronger than politics and transcend war. <br /> <br />There is something macabre in Stephan's fascination with Sachi's disfigured face.  Sachi is an enchanting woman, buy why is Stephan so enamored by her physical defects?  The Samauri's Garden is a fairy tale of sorts; perhaps it is one that also has its dark side to it. <br /> <br />The village of Tarumi is another world from Stephan's reality.  Like Stephan, readers will enjoy escaping from the real world and getting lost here.	2004-08-28
US	52505885	R1WUPPED6A0SI7	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Belissimo	Giuseppe di Lampedusa was himself a descendent of Sicilian royalty.  Perhaps this is why his novel, the Leopard, comes across as genuine and authentic.  This is the story of a Sicilian prince and his family during and after the unification of Italy in 1860.  Di Lampedusa manages to weave together a multi-layered story of politics, history, and love with an ironic tone that lends credibility to his words.  The leopard himself is an unlovable person but a lovable character.  He is a calculating, pragmatic man who decides to embrace the new political landscape of a united Italian kingdom lest it succeed without his support. <br /> <br />Di Lampedusa's descriptions of Italy are delicious, and Archibald Colquhoun's translation from the Italian is flawless.  In Sicily, the blazing sun reins more than any king, writes Di Lampedusa.  Anyone who has stepped foot on the island knows how true this is.  Through the courtship and marriage of a moneyless prince to a nouveau riche young woman from the countryside, the author hints at a new level of influence for the Sicilian Mafia in the mid-19th century.  Various conversations throughout the novel depict Sicilians' mistrust of outsiders and offer various reasons - some more dubious than others - as to why Sicily will always remain Sicily, distinct and separate from the rest of Italy. <br /> <br />The Leopard is a fantastic novel.  I recommend it to anyone who has been to Sicily, has an interest in the island, or simply enjoys top-notch literature.	2004-08-07
US	52505885	RBJHMJOTDGBXQ	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Slightly contradictory, but engaging and worthwhile	Longitude bills itself as &quot;the true story of a lone genius who solved the greatest scientific problem of his time,&quot; and in this sense the book delivers. Dava Sobel provides a fascinating account of the state of maritime transport back in the days when no one really knew where he was once he hit the open seas. Sure, anyone could figure out the ship's latitude by looking at the sky, but determining how far east or west one had sailed was another story entirely, and one that included many lethal shipwrecks. <br />  <br /> Two 18th century camps emerged to solve the puzzle that offered a 20,000-pound prize. One, supporters of the so-called lunar distance technique, looked to the stars. The other, which included the book's hero, looked to building better clocks. Guess which camp won? <br />  <br /> Therein lies one of the books contradictions. Sobel gives due credit to John Harrison for being the first to solve the puzzle by building the world's first seaworthy precision timepiece. Harrison had a gift for seeing what others could not and for turning his vision into durable, seaworthy non-pendulum clocks. (Just try using a pendulum clock at sea and see how long it keeps time.) Learning Harrison's history and his contributions is fascinating reading. But if Harrison solved the longitude problem in the mid to late 18th century and became so widely recognized, why then does Sobel say that the lunar distance proponents produced an almanac and tables from 1766 all the way though to 1907 that &quot;everyone agreed...provided the surest way for mariners to fix their positions at sea&quot;? <br />  <br /> Sobel's style is very accessible to the novice. The book is a quick read and packs a lot of interesting information into its 175 pages, although I wish I would have leaned more about Harrison's breakthrough clock called the H-3. I recommend Longitude to all audiences and will turn to another Sobel work, Galileo's Daughter, with anticipation.	2004-08-04
US	52505885	R12ZT9P2HNVW7F	0441000924	98079245	Knights of the Morningstar (Quantum Leap)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Escapism	Looking to leap back into the early 90's?  Don't want to spend a small fortune on Quantum Leap DVDs?  This novel won't substitute for the series, but if you're anxious to briefly rejoin Sam, Al, Ziggy and the rest, it'll do.<br />Sam leaps into the recent past to find that he's part of a love triangle during a medieval festival.  He's leaped into the body of the man who created an integral component to project Quantum Leap that may be the cause of Sam's seemingly random travel through time.  \\"This time it's for me,\\" Sam desperately concludes.  Soon enough, however, Alia, the evil leaper, appears, prepared to foil Sam's plan.  <br />Rawn captures well enough the characters and the general mood of the show, using her creativity to give added perspective on the characters' backgrounds and thought processes.  She gives us a window on what's happening in the present (or is it the future?) and how Sam's wife Donna copes with Sam's fate and her own.  I lost track of Quantum Leap during its final season and felt that the show started to meander some at that point, so it was a bit of a disappointment for this novel to be situated, chronologically, so late in the game.  I suppose, however, that my biggest frustration was that I felt I had to create a book cover to hide what I was reading.  I am a proud fan of the Quantum Leap television series, but somehow carrying a slim, TV-based volume with a picture of Scott Bakula and Dean Stockwell and the sci-fi lettering of the title on the cover didn't improve my self-image.  I guess it doesn't really matter; if I'm going to escape, I don't want anyone else around to distract me anyway.  So lock yourself in your bedroom for a few hours and enjoy a leap to the past.	2004-06-11
US	52505885	R1EVT47PJ1GSNK	0316926345	951028418	Brideshead Revisited	Books	3	9	25	N	N	What am I missing?	Typically when I finish a book, my wife jumps at the chance to read it next after having seen my excitement.  When I finished Brideshead Revisited, she declined the offer.  She said it was a boring title with a boring cover, and that I hadn't said anything at all to make her think it was a good read.  Yet Brideshead Revisited is extremely well written.  When it came time for me to write a review of my own performance at work, I tried to find inspiration from Waugh's style; I showed the review to my wife, who was blown away by how well it was written.  So where is the disconnect?<br />Perhaps it stems from the fact that there is no real story line. What is Brideshead Revisited about?  I can tell you that it touches on religion and war and homosexuality and class and family, but I am hard pressed to provide a synopsis.  (I finally concluded that it is a family portrait, which is what adorns the cover of my edition.)  More likely my dissatisfaction is a result of the dispassionate voice of the main character/narrator that gives the story a dream-like quality similar to L'Etranger by Camus.  If the narrator himself is dispassionate, that makes it tough for me to get wrapped up in the novel.<br />I fear that criticizing a modern classic speaks more to my own unsophisticated tastes than to the strengths or weaknesses of the novel, so it is it is with some trepidation that I give Brideshead Revisited only three stars.  The book sat on my shelf for over a decade before I finally picked it up.  What took me so long?  Perhaps it's as simple as it being a boring title with a boring cover.  All I can say is that it wasn't worth the wait.	2004-06-11
US	52505885	R1R2FPC9EF7Q0G	0812524721	395169680	Eagle's Cry: A Novel of the Louisiana Purchase (The American Story)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good history, fine story, poor style	Why was the Louisiana Purchase so important?  How did it come to pass, anyway?  Which one was Meriweather Lewis?  Eagle's Cry is a fine piece of historical fiction that will bring back to life many of the influential leaders of the nascent United States.  The rise of political parties and the origins of partisanship, the bitterness and animosity against Adams and his Alien and Sedition Acts, and the wisdom of Madison, the quirkiness of Jefferson, and the selfishness of Burr are all here.<br />And yet, somehow, the characters seem almost two dimensional at times under Nevin's pen.  The author tries hard - and often succeeds - to bring a level of familiarity and casualness to these exceptional men and women.  While that did not bother me, the recurrent technique of beginning sentences with verbs and completely dropping subjects (&quot;Marched into New York&quot;, &quot;Felt better already,&quot; etcetera etcetera ad infinitum) did.  And with all of these wonderfully charismatic historical figures, the introduction of a prominent fictional character detracts from, rather than augments, the novel.<br />I enjoyed Eagle's Cry and often found myself stealing a few minutes here and there guiltily to advance a chapter whenever possible.  And Nevin's history is top notch.  So why am I hesitating to read the next in the series?	2004-05-28
US	52505885	R3UUB5FM3SZPM1	0345466411	621445218	My American Journey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Inspirational	Back in the early 90's, I didn't understand America's love affair with Colin Powell.  It was only after he was named Secretary of State by George Bush that I read My American Journey, originally published in 1995.  While the book obviously doesn't provide much insight into Powell's sudden about-face in early 2003 on whether to invade Iraq, it does provide a great deal of background and context to allow Americans to understand that Powell probably felt he exhausted his options and had no choice but to support Bush's policy or to resign.  It also makes plain Powell's disdain for Dick Cheney.  Clearly, Powell did not expect to be working again so closely with Cheney when he published My American Journey.<br />Powell's lessons are inspirational.  There is a reason that Colin Powell is one of the most admired leaders in America, and his autobiography makes clear that he cares about his troops and his employees.  Strange, then, that he would have forced his Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs to \\"retire\\" in 2002 rather than stand up to the pressure he must have been under from the press and other government colleagues, including, perhaps, his boss, in the wake of numerous visa scandals.  That she was one of the most respected and successful Foreign Service Officers shows that even such bigger-than-life heroes as Powell are only human after all.<br />My American Journey includes some of Powell's setbacks as well as his achievements.  His vignette about a poor efficiency report he received at a crucial stage in his career helped me deal with a similar run-in with my boss.  I practically quoted Powell to my boss, but was a bit more active than Powell has himself come across.  (Powell essentially resigned himself to finding a new job.)  In the end, Powell's first rule prevailed: \\"It ain't as bad as you think.  It will look better in the morning.\\"	2004-04-04
US	52505885	R2VLW82COT4DFP	0380718200	162614249	Siro	Books	4	21	24	N	N	The best description of Armenia in fiction -- and much more	I read SIRO for one reason only: it was the only work of fiction I could find that had scenes set in Armenia.  Even if that leaves you indifferent, this is an excellent spy novel and well worth reading.  Ignatius's research  -- geographical, historical, and organizational -- is superb.  While his story briefly spins into something not quite believable, his underlying description of the CIA and its employees rings true.  Ignatius neither glorifies nor deamonizes them, he simply recounts what their lives must be like and what he believes they must feel. <br />And if you are one of the rare few that is interested in Armenia as a backdrop for at least part of a novel, you will not be disapointed.  Late in the novel we are introduced to Armenian character, and we are eventually transported to Armenia with some of the characters.  Ignatius gets nearly every detail right, and it was as though I had actually visited Armenia, however briefly.	2004-04-04
US	52505885	R323G21FOK65IY	0743467558	161921962	Farther Shore (Star Trek: Voyager)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	A disappointing sequel	I suppose that if you've read Homecoming you have no choice but to read the Farther Shore.  Unfortunately, I quickly felt that I was reading this sequel out of necessity rather than for pleasure.  The problem lies with Golden's emphasis on secondary characters.  I'm sorry, but I didn't buy a Voyager book to read about Harry's girlfriend and all of her cohorts that Voyager's crew hasn't seen for the past 7 years, if ever, to the neglect of the crew.  The plot eventually comes back around to our heroes, but by that point I was just about ready to put the book down and forget about it in favor of the Voyager DVD set.  And that's a shame, considering how much I enjoyed Christie's Homecoming.  Here's hoping the author's next venture follows the Homecoming model rather than that of the Farther Shore.	2004-03-05
US	52505885	R2YI84ZS1IG51X	074346754X	831914119	Homecoming (Star Trek Voyager Book One of Two) (Pt.1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Welcome back, old friends	Homecoming lives up to its name, picking up exactly where the Star Trek: Voyager series left off at the end of its final episode.  Golden knows the characters and, assuming that her readers already know them as well, wastes no time describing them.  Her tone for each character is well chosen, and I was able to hear the actors' voices in my head during each conversation.  The plot moves along quickly and the only disappointment is that the crew is no longer on Voyager.<br />This book is for fans of the series only.  Others will be lost due to the lack of character development.  Still, for those of us who feel that Voyager's return home has, ironically, made us lose contact with old friends, Homecoming is a pleasant reunion.  Too bad the sequel doesn't deliver.	2004-03-04
US	52505885	R364EVZ3WXEKWB	0316857025	299902019	Bon Appetit: Travels Through France With Knife, Fork and Corkscrew	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fawning over the French	Peter Mayle's tale of bizarre French country fairs is sure to please the amature francophile.  The festivals -- from a wine fair desguised as a marathon to a truffle celebration masquerading as a mass -- bring out the best of the French: their &quot;gourmandisme&quot; combined with their hospitality and their out-right dorkiness.<br />Have I offended you yet?  Good, because that's where Mayle's book fails.  He is so in love with everything French (or afraid to be lynched by his adopted countrymen) that he goes out of his way to avoid even the most minor of criticisms.  At times it felt like I was reading a transcript of a dinner party: &quot;I don't normally like snails because they are too chewy and bland, but these are so...interesting!&quot;  Please, Mr. Mayle, take a chance and tell us what you really think; not every Frenchman is delightful, even with a full belly and a half-empty wine glass.<br />If you are planning a summer vacation to France and you like food or colorful local flavor, you will probably enjoy Bon Appetit a great deal.  If you live in France or spend a fair amount of time there, you will undoubtedly learn a lot about offbeat traditions, regional specialties, and the Michelin Red Guide.  In the end, perhaps Mayle is right to leave out any criticisms.  After all, who needs indigestion while trying to enjoy such light fare?	2003-09-21
US	52505885	R399X14S6HDYGH	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Art Versus Culture	I was hesitant to read this book at first, but I was quickly won over.  My Name is Asher Lev is the story of a boy growing up as a Hasidic Jew who finds, to the great regret of his father, that he wants to become an artist.  This original story is beautifully told by Potok, and I found that I could not put the book down.<br />Potok uses the first person to create an air of innocence and mystery from the very first page.  Through the repetition of simple sentences and events, he captures the beauty of Hasidic and Jewish tradition.  Without defining key terms, Potok exposes us to Shabbos, Zemiros, the Ribbono Shel Olom, Krias Shema, and other elements of Hasidim, making us feel that we are part of the culture.<br />Ahser Lev himself does not fully understand what is happening to him nor, often, what is going on around him.  Sometimes Asher learns as he grows, such as when he gradually discovers what his father does for a living.  Other times he never sees the whole truth.  (An amusing example: when Asher's father is away, Asher says to his mother that he misses his father most on Shabbos.  \\"I also miss him especially on Shabbos,\\" his mother replies.  Asher never learns -- or never reveals -- that it is a tradition for married Jewish couples to make love on the Sabbath.)<br />My Name is Asher Lev has inspired me to take up drawing as a hobby, something I have been toying with for a while.  Although I never expect to match the fictional Asher Lev's talent, I do hope to be able to see things in new ways, to lose myself in my drawing, and to create something with my own hands.  Few books have inspired me so.<br />I find that I am now reluctant to read the next in the series, The Gift of Asher Lev, out of fear that it cannot be as satisfying as My Name is Asher Lev.  Will I find that my misgivings are unfounded?  For now, only the Ribbono Shel Olom knows.	2003-08-19
US	52505885	R13Y5KE65LCH7C	2070767140	730882066	La Chambre	Books	4	2	2	N	N	About a boy	In La Chambre, Franoise Chandernagor writes a moving tale of an eight-year-old prisoner whose mind and body slowly decay after he is locked away in a 36-square-foot room with neither supervision nor stimulation.  This is historical fiction, but Chandernagor hides from us whom she is writing about.  I won't spoil her game here.<br />This is not a happy tale, and I found myself wondering just how Chandernagor was going to keep my interest for 280 pages of a two-year-long death scene without making me suicidal.  Through beautiful prose, flashbacks, and creative perspectives, including conversations between the author and ghosts of witnesses, the author succeeds, and I am happy to report that I am still alive.<br />Chandornagor says that she is writing about more than just one boy.  She is instead writing about \\"everyday evil\\" (\\"le mal ordinaire\\").  She decries inaction and indifference, arguing that while no one person is to blame for this boy's death, everyone is to blame.  Yes, \\"is\\" to blame, because the same evil of inaction and indifference still exists today.  Chandornagor's novel reminds us that \\"it's not my job\\" or \\"why should I care\\" just don't cut it at any level.  It is also an example of how history-making changes can happen too quickly and those in power can be insensitive to the destiny of individuals.  But most of all it is the tale of a young boy whose life is destroyed by a people and a government run amok.  It a beautiful and touching read.  Just don't pick it up when you are already depressed.	2003-05-23
US	52505885	R2JGO8RF1ZJ080	0385252218	632815847	Larousse: Traditional French Cooking	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Is this a joke?	I am not the worst chef in the world.  Given proper instruction, I can actually make some impressive dishes.  So why is it that every dish I prepare from Curnonsky's cookbook is a fiasco?  I've tried simple dishes (Watercress Soup), accompaniments (B&eacute;arnaise Sauce), and dishes with pictures in the book (Scallops with Mussels Nantaise).  Not once have I been satisfied with the result.  The Scallops, for example, looked nothing like the picture and tasted like butter melted with more butter and laced with white wine.  Am I missing something?  Are there steps that Curnonsky leaves out that are obvious to French chefs?  With patience, I am sure that one of the 1,200 recipes would turn out fine, but I don't think I am that patient.<br />Were it not for the fantastic list of suggested wines that accompany each dish and the translation of fishes, dishes and meats into French -- a handy reference -- this cookbook would merit only one star.	2003-04-23
US	52505885	RYK3SKA1CQK8Z	0139536132	241574338	Webster's New World French Dictionary: French/English English/French	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Le Meilleur	This is one of the best concise French-English / English-French dictionaries available.  It is small enough to be portable while large enough to be complete.  The dictionary lacks a fair bit of culinary and other specialty vocabulary, but I don't expect such minutiae from a dictionary this size.  Entries are easy to read, and phrases are not difficult to find.  The Webster's New World is my primary foreign language dictionary, and I am rarely disappointed by it.	2003-04-19
US	52505885	R8JQGLKSUYF5M	0789205386	81489815	The Expectant Father: Facts, Tips and Advice for Dads-to-Be, Second Edition	Books	5	450	467	N	N	My Book About Me	A quick Amazon search reveals 3,523 pregnancy books on the market.  How many of these are written for the mother?  About 3,510.  A dozen others use sarcasm and exaggerated humor -- often at the expense of the pregnant mother -- rather than useful information to draw the heathen male into the future world of parenting.  There has got to be a better way for a father-to-be to learn what he has gotten himself into.<br />Fortunately there is.  The Expectant Father is that 3,523rd book.  It is a well-written, month-by-month explanation of what is going on both emotionally and physically with the mother, the baby, and you the father.  At 250 pages plus references, it is packed with information while still being portable.  It doesn't necessarily go into a great amount of detail on each subject, but it mentions most important things at least in passing, and you can always refer to the Internet or What to Expect... (which your partner will undoubtedly have on her nightstand) for more details.<br />Be forewarned: this book is slightly new-agey at points.  But hey, Brott is just offering suggestions that the reader is free to ignore.  Overall this is a useful reference written with the father-to-be in mind as a principal reader, not an afterthought.	2003-04-19
US	52505885	R3415OWWHHYL73	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Suspend Your Disbelief	Knights and ladies, action and suspense, science and history -- Crichton provides a perfect formula for a page-turner.  And even if, by the end of the novel, I felt that there are many better ways I could have spent my time that week, I certainly enjoyed reading Timeline and often couldn't put it down.<br />Parts of the novel read like a James Bond film, especially when our hapless heroes who get sent back in time (or do they get sent across parallel universes?) are outfitted with 14th-century-style gadgets that will come in handy at just the right moment.  Timeline's protagonists are quite naive, particularly for graduate students and professors, allowing them to get themselves into one mess after another.  And, of course, they have the perfect combination of physical and linguistic skills to get themselves right back out of trouble at the last possible second...only to find themselves in an even worse predicament.<br />Don't bother trying to scrutinize Crichton's science.  It is well researched and well presented, as is the history, but in the end the reader must simply trust the bold statement of one of the novel's characters: time paradoxes do not occur.  Can this be why 20th century Americans can travel back to 14th century France and not carry civilization-destroying diseases with them?  Or are we to dig deeper when we learn that the plague hit France less than a year after our heroes left?  Plenty of questions come to mind that Crichton does not answer, but this is a novel to get lost in and to spark your imagination, not to over-analyze.  Anyway, you'll be too busy turning pages to worry about the subtleties of quantum physics and parallel universes.	2003-04-19
US	52505885	RT9MIBZVZA3OG	0815733534	487005279	The Bureaucratic Entrepreneur: How to Be Effective in Any Unruly Organization	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A public good	The federal government is a unique place to work.  Most people agree that it is more difficult to fire subordinates there than in the private sector and, due to the government's arcane hiring process, it is often a challenge to put the right person in the right job.  Add to this mix Congressional oversight, the occasional media spotlight, the lack of a bottom line, and the big-picture question (not asked often enough) &quot;what are we doing and why are we doing it,&quot; and you have an environment foreign to many private sector employees.<br />Enter Richard Haass's book the Bureaucratic Entrepreneur, an update of his 1993 primer the Power to Persuade.  Haass has held a number of positions in previous government administrations, including at the NSC and the Defense and State Departments.  His book is packed with words of wisdom for the harried bureaucrat who at the end of the day may wonder just what he accomplished.  Although Haass's advice appears machiavellian (he argues that Machiavelli is often misunderstood) and the author does not have a firm grasp on whether his audience is the entry-level employee or the senior-level political appointee, it is worth putting up with these drawbacks for the original focus and insight on managing and leading in the public sector.  The bibliography alone is reason enough to buy the book.<br />Low-level or high, every public-sector employee should read the Bureaucratic Entrepreneur before starting his or her new government job.  They should then re-read it every few years to ensure that they are on track and using the tools Haass lays out to be effective in one of the most &quot;unruly&quot; organizations around.	2002-10-24
US	52505885	R1OL0JHAJQMSB2	076790768X	636160479	Slack: Getting Past Burnout, Busywork, and the Myth of Total Efficiency	Books	1	9	29	N	N	Proletarian drivel	Wouldn't it be great if we could all work less hard and get more done?  The heart of Tom DeMarco's thesis in Slack is that workers, particularly middle managers, need time to be less busy so that they can bring change and reinvention to their firms.  This means bringing back the extinct secretary and hiring more middle managers so that the firm can become a proactive engine of growth rather than a reactive 20th century relic.<br />Alas, much as I would like to believe it, DeMarco's argument is unconvincing.  This slim volume is self-contradictory and analytically weak.  The author advocates many of his main points simply by repeatedly asserting them as fact, and his early admission of this flaw does not make it any easier to swallow.  His assumptions about what motivates workers are nave.  In a chapter entitled &quot;When 'Hurry Up' Really Means 'Slow Down'&quot;, DeMarco states that an underworked employee in an efficient organization will intentionally slow down his or her work in order to look 100 percent busy.  Perhaps.  But DeMarco's implied corollary - that the &quot;hurry up&quot; climate of the organization needs to change in order to prevent this - is simplistic at best.  An employee with that psychology likely has the propensity to be an underperformer no matter how the organization is structured.  This is certainly an important management question, but one that needs to be addressed through supervisor-employee counseling sessions and other methods before the entire organization is diagnosed with mismanagement.<br />DeMarco says that Slack can be read cover-to-cover on a New York to Chicago plane ride.  You might find better management lessons on the emergency landing card.	2002-10-21
US	52505885	RO7MC7ORHAQM7	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	2	11	17	N	N	An amusing memoir, no more	While Lewis does a fine job as he writes a personal memoir of his time at Solomon Brothers in the mid-1980's, he soon loses focus of his main storyline. Lewis wanders off for three chapters to describe the creation of a home mortgage market and the personalities involved. It is as if Lewis or his editor suddenly decided that the amusing anecdotes of life on Wall Street were fine pulp, but needed to be framed in the context of historical substence in order for the book to be seen as respectable. (Ironically, Lewis's account of the rise to power of Michael Milken is more gripping, perhaps because Lewis was more directly affected by Milken's ambitions.) The evolution of equities as an investment is ignored almost completely, leaving the reader to wonder how, in the span of two years or so, the equities department of Solomon Brothers could go from \\"powerless\\" to surviving the layoffs started days before the crash of '87 to being the reason Solomon Brothers had its worst year in history. The author is inconsistent in his granting of pseudonyms or anonymity, naming a great many employees by name while protecting a chosen few. All in all, Liar's Poker is a quick, sometimes amusing account of Lewis's time at Solomon Brothers, but little more.	2002-09-28
US	52505885	R35EKFK1IJGTS3	0465030912	238681133	The Mind's I: Fantasies And Reflections On Self & Soul	Books	3	12	18	N	N	A Mixed Bag	The Mind's I promises more than it delivers.  Perhaps this is not surprising given the immensity of the subject, i.e., what is consciousness, what is self, who am &quot;I&quot;.  Hofstadter and Dennet wisely avoid attempting to answer these questions directly.  They choose instead to share a collection of 27 science fiction stories and scientific essays from various authors, sharing their own &quot;reflections&quot; after each entry.  The selections range from the playful (The Riddle of the Universe and Its Solution) to the analytical (Minds, Brains, and Programs), and the editors are to be commended for including a sampling of authors whose views they do not share.<br />Ironically, this is the basis of one of the book's weaknesses.  Hofstadter and Dennet quickly dismiss opposing views as being based on false analogies, yet to win the reader over to their camp they employ similarly flawed analogies.  (Of course, analogies are like false profits -- they should not be trusted.)  A number of the reflections following certain science fiction entries choose to focus on the impossibility of the plot rather than the philosophical questions raised.  Moreover, the editors' emphasis on artificial intelligence and whether machines can have souls, while occasionally helpful in pushing the reader to determine his own definition of consciousness, tends to obfuscate rather than clarify what should be the main thrust of the book: who am (is?) &quot;I&quot;?  Finally, key concepts (e.g., dualism) are not clearly defined early on, a handicap for the casual reader.<br />But there is something worthwhile in The Mind's I for most readers.  The science fiction fan will more than get his fill; the fiction writer will have fun imagining entire universes he has created; and the introspective soul will be seduced into reflecting on whether &quot;I think therefore I am&quot; is a strong enough argument.	2002-08-16
US	52505885	RGFEQ868O12AH	0312953968	233973922	The Edge of Honor	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Too Much Jargon, Not Enough Style	The Edge of Honor, written by a retired Navy captain, tries hard to bring the reader into the Navy world and capture the reader's imagination, but doesn't quite succeed.  With its stiff prose and bland characters, the novel plods along without building much suspense until two-thirds of the way through, when plot, action, and character finally combine to produce a page-turner.  Until that point, however, the military jargon is overwhelming, even with a glossary included at the back of the book.  Deutermann's attempt to have the reader learn along with the new guy simply makes the hero look unappealingly naive.  A few scenes of life aboard a ship in the Gulf of Tonkin during the Vietnam war are extraneous to the plot, do not build character, and are not strong enough in a literary sense to merit inclusion in the book.<br />Retired navy personnel may find this novel an intriguing description of an ultimately dysfunctional ship, but to the outsider it has little to offer.	2002-08-02
US	52505885	R3M9SFEVY0NL1I	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Welcome To The Family	Founding Brothers is a wonderful reintroduction to the early years of the United States and a fascinating portrait of the men (and one woman) whose conflicting, sometimes shifting beliefs came together to shape the direction of our republic.  Broken into six easily readable chapters, Ellis's narrative manages to show the founding fathers as real -- albeit extraordinary -- people, each with his own idiosyncrasies.  Historical figures that had all but merged together in my mind since high school history classes I now see as distinct individuals with separate ideals, flaws, and ambitions.<br />Ellis is at his best describing the relationships between the founding fathers: the friendships, the rivalries, and the personal conflicts.  In doing so, Ellis makes the founding fathers resemble one big dysfunctional family.  His favorite characters seem to be those who left the most for the historical record (Monroe, Adams), while Franklin plays a minor role and Jefferson comes across as something between hypocritical and schizophrenic.<br />The few weaknesses of Founding Brothers are easily overlooked.  Ellis struggles to describe the cancerous effect of slavery on the young republic, often attempting to clarify his logic in the book's endnotes.  He also has a habit of alluding to relationships or events that he only fully develops in later chapters, sometimes leading to a disjointed chronology.<br />Ellis's style is perfect for a generalist audience.  He lets the founding fathers speak for themselves, then follows these 18th century quotes with modern translations or his own interpretation.  I had gotten to know the characters so well that when Jefferson and then Adams died in the final chapter, I regretted the time they had spent angry at each other and felt a sense of loss, as if I had recently rediscovered missing relatives only to have them disappear once again so soon thereafter.	2002-07-18
US	52505885	R3NW8RPVHBV5XN	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The Joke Goes On Too Long	Foucault's Pendulum first attracted my attention ten years ago when a professor I respected said he read Eco's novel and had no idea what was it was about. It took me over a decade to take up his implicit challenge, but I finally understand what he meant.<br />Not that the plot is hard to follow. In fact, FP starts off fast-paced: suspense combined with an intriguing dose of numerology. The Templars quickly enter the story, and the history Eco provides here is engaging and approachable.<br />Then comes the middle half of the book. Eco warns that the logic to be laid out in FP will be faulty, allowing the less ambitious reader to mentally skim much of the obscure history that follows. Although part of the fun is trying to figure out what is history and what is historical fiction, wading through paragraph-long lists of occult orders is less than stimulating.<br />When not caught up in pseudo-history lessons, Eco's style is inviting and his sense of humor is engaging. Broken into 120 chapters, FP is one of those novels where you can either convince yourself you have time to read just one more chapter, then one more, or instead struggle to get through to the end of a short chapter before falling asleep from boredom.<br />The last 100 pages of the book pick up again, and the plot moves along to a satisfying ending. After putting the book down, I am impressed that Eco has provoked me to consider such topics as religion, the meaning of life, the \\"knowledge is power\\" attitude of some colleagues, determinism/free will, etc.<br />I am glad I finally read Foucault's Pendulum. Still, I won't be buying The Name Of The Rose just yet. I need a little break from Eco right now.	2002-07-10
