US	52502095	RBAD65JGE6U44	0595360726	936447983	3000 Years	Books	5	5	8	N	N	H.G wells for our time.	3000 Years by Richard Mgrdchian is an excellent sci fi; and its much more. Many Sci fi books, movies, etc.,(or ever series) are futuristic moral plays, and this book does take that track, but goes beyond that; it is a social and political commentary on our own time and well as a social and political commentary (and prediction) of our feature 50 years from now in 2055.<br /><br />The Basic plot is a Scientist named John Bennett found a way to slow down time and create a state of suspended animation (for lake of a better word). He was all set to reveal it to the world and receive the fame and accolades that would come with such a discovery; but a wrench is tossed into the gears of his life; when he finds out his one true love (Dawn Whitemore) is dying from a form of cancer with no treatment. He decides that they must go into the feature and find a cure using his new invention. The trip will be one way, for John Bennett did not invent a time machine alla H. G. Wells Time Machine, but a time suppression machine. He talked his friend Sam Tobin into going along for the ride (or Time hop) and soon enough Sam, Dawn and John were off to there first time hop.<br /><br />Before the time hop we get a look at types of people who live in our time and we are able to see how these types play out in 2055. When they arrive in the feature we see how the types of persons and trends of today play out. How the political divisions, etc., work out. Many many theories and beliefs are looked at my Mgredechian and he really makes us all think. This book gives some answers but more so causes one to have many more questions. The characters are likable and you will want to know what happens with them.<br /><br />This book 3000 years can make a great movie or series, for sure. I would highly recommend it for anyone interested in sci fi, and I would also recommend it for anyone interested in the politics, scientific advances and a cultural trends of our day. I can't wiat for the next 50 years.ears.	2005-10-13
US	52502095	R3I1Y0TMABZF72	0595335594	306802275	Bible Codes Revealed: The Coming UFO Invasion	Books	1	39	55	N	Y	Not worth a dime, or your time!!!!!	Wow where do I start, basically this book is every possible conspiracy theory blended into one huge conspiracy; and she calms that the LORD Yaway is giving her all her info. She uses bible code, but in a way like Dorsin, looking for single words in close proximity and putting them together and anyone who knows Bible code knows that you can find anything you want in this way (see the Book bible Code Bombshell for a scientific look at Bible codes). The proper use of Bible code as an authentication code is to find long code all in the same ELS, that is mathematically impossible (or non probable), not to look for single words and mix and match like Dorsin, who has been thoroughly discredited. I can only conclude that this author is a false prophet or at best deluded.	2005-08-26
US	52502095	R11WY0Y47T2QNI	0310402301	6273872	Halley's Bible Handbook	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Great Bible Study Help!!!!!	I love the way Halley's Bible Hand book starts off with a wonderful quote \\"The Bible is the most priceless possession of the human race,\\" and I would whole heartily agree. Halley also has great quotes from D. L. moody, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Patrick Henry, and many many others, all great stuff.<br /><br />Halley called his hand book \\"a handy brief manual...for the average Bible reader,\\" and it is also just as handy for the theologian. The hand book is easy to read it is not burdened down with difficult nomenclature, so anyone can get a lot from it.<br /><br />The handbook contains a bible chapter by chapter notes for the whole text, sometimes its verse by verse and sometimes chapter's on the same subject are group, but it overall is pretty comprehensive and can help one understand any difficulties they are having with the biblical text. There are also very good sections on archeological discoveries that have reference to the Bible and also a great section on Church History, that is worth the price alone.<br /><br />I highly recommend this as a great bible study help.	2005-08-26
US	52502095	R11V1JFKLFFT3O	0892216239	524253803	Bible Code Bombshell	Books	5	84	91	N	N	best Book on Bible Codes!!!!!!!!!!	Bible Code bombshell: Compelling Evidence That GOD Authored The Bible by R. Edwin Sherman is the single best book on Bible codes, by a long shot. It is a sober, scientific, and statistical look at Bible Codes. Sherman makes NO attempt to be sensational, except in reporting the facts. NOW the facts themselves are sensational (this is mathematical proof of the existence of God that is far beyond a reasonable doubt). In the world of Bible codes, some bad unscientific work has gotten out there and has brought much disrepute on to Bible codes, and that is truly terrible. Hear Sherman takes on those bad works dividing between what they got right and what they got wrong and also takes on the critics of Bible codes as well. Sherman goes on to shows some amazing clusters of Long BIBLE CODES that defy being accidental. This is a Great book for anyone interested in Bible codes, for anyone who has dismissed Bible codes and even for anyone, it might very well lead many to find God.	2005-07-02
US	52502095	R2H5AXNKS7L5R6	084235493X	902998297	Holy Bible: Catholic Reference Edition (Burgundy Bonded Leather)	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Easy to read Translation!!!	The New Living Translation is not a translation per say, but is a paraphrase; the gist of the message is still there, but there are so many GOOD translations out there you don't need this one. I perfer The Revised Standard, The New Revised Standard, The American and The Douey Versions (all cathloic Versions). Also, For easy to read and more accurate translations I would look into the English Standard Version and the Holman Christian Bible. if you like the Living for readability also get one of the aboved mentioned for study.	2005-04-29
US	52502095	RZ9TZB2H90ALU	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	5	32	59	N	Y	VERY Important Debate!!!!!	Mark Levin's theory, in Men In Black, is that the justices of the Supreme Court  (the black-robed), are subverting democracy in favor of their own liberal agenda. He proves this theory with much evidence. Such as In Men in Black, we learn: How judicial activism upheld slavery and segregation; Why Roe v. Wade not only mandated abortion-on-demand, but gutted the Constitution: How the Court imports laws from other countries to help win the culture war for extremists; Why the justices are granting illegal immigrants rights equal with US citizens; and how helping terrorists file suit against the United States is another innovation of our Supreme Court;  Mark also gives us a Surprise in that he shows the liberal Supreme Court Justice who erected the \\"separation of church and state\\" dogma was in fact a member of the KKK. Mark Shows how Decades of judicial activism have made the Supreme Court the most potent threat to American freedom. Men in Black is an extremely important book.  I urge everyone to read it!	2005-04-15
US	52502095	R3A4CITLTA94K3	0847827615	190398942	Memory and Identity: Conversations at the Dawn of a Millennium	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	A Must Read for All Christians!!!!!!!!	In \\"Memory and Identity: Conversations at the Dawn of a Millennium\\" With Pope John Paul II recently passing on to the full phases of life, we have his final, fearless words. In a sense His last will and testament. The Book is written in a question-and-answer format. In these very candid writings (answers), John Paul II tackles extremely important issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, and he fearlessly makes the case for his Church's positions. There will be some controversy hear as well the Pope compares abortion to the Nazi Holocaust. That will stir quit some debate as well as it should Our abortion holocaust is far worse then even Hitler's barbaric atrocities.<br /><br />In this book the Pope: Recalls his near-death memories after the attempt on his life, and compares abortion to the Holocaust: Denounces gay marriages as part of \\"a new ideology of evil:\\" He argues that same-sex marriages threaten society by undermining the traditional family he also writes about gay marriages when he refers to \\"pressures\\" on the European Parliament to allow them: Calls abortion \\"legal extermination\\" comparable to attempts to wipe out Jews and other groups in the 20th century (as I mentioned above). The Pope openly talks about the Nazi attempt to exterminate Jews and the wholesale slaughter of political opponents by Communist regimes after World War II (and thank God we need to be reminded of the insidious evils of Marxism and nazism).<br /><br />John Paul II Also writes about Turkish gunman Mehmet Ali Agca, who shot him in a failed assassination attempt in St. Peter's Square on May 13, 1981. John Paul II believes the gunman did not act alone, suggesting that the former USSR was probably behind the plot. The Pope says that the assassination attempt was not the gunman's initiative:<br /><br />The pope also warns us that new evils as bad the Nazis and Communism are rising, and claims that legally elected parliaments in formerly totalitarian countries are today allowing what he calls \\"new forms of evil\\" and new exterminations. Such as abortion, the growing of fetus to destroy life for stem cell, the new anti-Semitism, etc.,<br /><br />With Pope John Paul IIs death just recently; this book becomes even more important as he reveals his personal thoughts in a truly historic document; the book is a must-read not only for Catholics, but also for all Christians and in fact any and everyone concerned about the direction Western society is heading.ng what he calls \\"new forms of evil\\" and new exterminations. Such as abortion, the growing of fetus to destroy life for stem cell, the new anti-Semitism, etc.,  <br /> <br /> <br />With Pope John Paul IIs death just recently; this book becomes even more important as he reveals his personal thoughts in a truly historic document; the book is a must-read not only for Catholics, but also for all Christians and in fact any and everyone concerned about the direction Western society is heading.  <br />	2005-04-12
US	52502095	R2R6ZD4FYM82Z0	1595550062	249479332	Liberalism is a Mental Disorder: Savage Solutions	Books	5	342	520	N	N	Savage is the Thomas Payne of the 21st century!!!!!	Michael Savage's new BOOK \\"Liberalism is a Mental Disorder,\\" is a wonderful and important read. It is the third book in a trilogy of books, that I liken to Thomas Payne's common sense, which are warning of the dangers of tyranny in Payne's time and of extreme liberalism in our time. Savage's goal is to wake up all of the American People, or at least enough of them to stop the insanity of the extreme lefties who have infiltrated both our main political parties and dominate most Interests groups in the USA (like the ACLU, etc.,). In this Book Savage set's out to show and to prove that Liberalism is a mental disorder and I must say he proves his case by a long shot. Savage accomplishes this feat by laying out extremely important issues and problems facing The USA (Such as the War On terror, the War in Iraq, Border security and the alien invasion in our country; And the Attack on our businesses especially small businesses by the radical lawyers, courts, environmentalists, etc.,) And he shows how liberal solutions are absolutely insane. He also provides the solutions (read the book). Savage also shows how these Ideal and ideas of liberalism have taken complete control of the democrat party and are in much control of the republican party as well. Savage outlines how we can take back our country. besides the fact this series of Books by Savage are very important if we are to survive as a nation, and they are an engaging and entertaining read; So you will enjoy reading them and more so in learning from them.	2005-04-12
US	52502095	R1V7HE8HJGDVX5	0310240867	310947236	The Revealing: The Time Is Now (Nephilim Series Vol. 3)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Very Exciting!!!!!!!!!!!!	The two best things you can say about a Book are; One, I could not out it down and Two, I want more (I smell another trilogy coming). The reveling; The Time Is Now is the third book is L.A. Marzulli's Nephilim series. All three books (Nephilim; The Unholy Deception and The reveling) are excellent, action packed and are a very exciting read's.<br /><br />Without giving too much of the plot of the series away, lets just say that this series is the X-files meets the Holy Bible. Marzulli Bases the series on The Bible especially the book Of Genesis chapter 6; the BOOK of Jude; many of the Biblical prophecy's such as those in the Book of Daniel, Ezekiel (especially Chapters 38-39); Matthew (chapter 24) the Book of the Revelation of Jesus Christ; and on the extra biblical book, the book of Enoch. Even those this series is fiction it contains much truth and just may be blueprint of things to come. Its an exciting Sci Fi (more then Sci Fi) read and I would recommend it to all.	2005-03-07
US	52502095	RQI5Q9G4INRJR	1594678944	48483331	The Nephilim and the Pyramid of the Apocalypse	Books	5	67	105	N	Y	A great read!!!!!	The Nephilim and the pyramid of the Apocalypse is a great read. if you are interested in the Bible; Accent religions of the Hebrews, Assyrians, Egyptians, Romans, Greeks etc.; Megalithic structures such as the great pyramid of Giza; Angels, Fallen Angles and demons; Astronomy-astrology; the book of revelation in the new testament (Basically Heron does a line by line exposition of the book hear), ancient Hebrew prophecies in both new and old testaments; Other accent writings; a study of who the Nephilim were and what they did; who is God and what will happen in the feature; then this book is for you.<br /><br />Amazingly enough Heron takes on all the above subjects in a coherent and scholarly manor while at the same time, making it all understandable for all of us. This book will peek your interests in the above subjects to study farther and is a great starting point. Also the last chapter the greatest story ever told, is a key chapter and may be the most important thing you ever read.	2005-03-03
US	52502095	R2ISW7HDRJIGQX	0595316700	780111282	Catholicism Unveiled: What Hides Behind the Public Image?	Books	5	9	14	N	Y	A must read for every catholic and...	Mary Ann Collins Book Catholicism Unveiled is a must read for every catholic and for anyone interested in the catholic Church. It is very important to challenge our assumptions and our doctrine's and see if they stand up to the clean teaching of Christ and his Apostle's in the New testament. Collins explores the ecumenical strategy of the catholic Church (since Vatican II) and shows us where its leading. She also takes on many of our beliefs that have been added in over the years, she examines where they come from and if they are Biblical or not. This book really is a challenge to every catholic and non catholic alike, to examine our faith, to test the spirits, and see and cleave to what is good and discard what is not. More importantly, this book is a call to all to have a personal relationship with our Lord.	2005-01-12
US	52502095	RUO449V58EP1I	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	61	72	N	Y	Already proven right!!!!!	People who oppose what these swift Boat Veterans are doing and want to deny them there 1st amendment rights must ask themselves some questions.<br /><br />1. There are 64 eye whiteness in this book and all of them signed affidavits under oath, Would kerry sign an affidavit under oath????<br /><br />2. All 64 will take a lie dectator test, will kerry????????<br /><br />3. What about the 3 POWs, who are not part of the Swifties??? All three liars too ey????? All three said they heard kerrys speech, in front of the senate, being played to them by the Vietnamese Communists, while there were POWs,  and that it was used to demoralize them.<br /><br />4. What about the Admiral who was the treating doctor for kerrys first wound, he is lying too??? he is not a member of the swifties.<br /><br />5. What about kerrys Diary. as stated in his own book \\"tour Of Duty,\\" that he had not seen enemy fire as fo dec 12, 1968; Yet he received a purple heart for Dec 9th, which by eye whitens account turned out to be a self inflicted accidental wound??? His own diary proves the Swifties right on his first Purple Heart medal.<br /><br />6. What about Bob Dole who said How do you get three purple hearts without Bleeding?? Who do you get more medals then Audy Murphy in 4 months and three purple hearts and not miss a day. Soldiers would not take purple hearts for scratches and accidental self inflicted wounds.<br /><br />Kerry served his country, in Viet Nam, he deserves credit for that; but its pretty obvious that he doctored his report's, to get medals he even said in his senate testimony back in the early 70s, I remember filling out a lot of spot receipts, and he also said that that those reports were often not true implying others filled out the reports falsely but maybe just telling us something about himself.<br /><br />Kerry said that he personally committed war crimes in Vietnam, yet the swif boat vets all came out when Kerry was running for the senate that He did not, defending him and at the same time calling him a liar; Irony is so ironic.<br /><br />The Swift boat vet's have been proven right about the so called Christmas in Cambodia.<br /><br />If we are to believe Kerry<br /><br />1. Nixon was president in 68<br /><br />2. MLK was shot while Kerry ws in Nam.<br /><br />3. The Khmar Rough existed in 68.<br /><br />4. That he Kerry is a war criminal, that we the USA carried out systematic war crimes, and they were approved from the top.<br /><br />5. and that he was in Cambodia on Dec 24th 1968<br /><br />All five statements are and have been proven wrong. The Swift boat vet's have drawn into question 2 of kerry purple hearts, and his bronze and silver star and the evidence is compelling. The Swift Boats vets have been proven right already on at least the two things I mentioned above. I believe they have earned the right to speak and I would recommend this book to everyone who is planing on voting this year. And we should all demand kerry sign the form to release ALL his military record and also release his Diary. What is he hiding???ng him and at the same time calling him a liar; Irony is so ironic.  <br /> <br />The Swift boat vet's have been proven right about the so called Christmas in Cambodia. <br /> <br />If we are to believe Kerry  <br />1. Nixon was president in 68 <br />2. MLK was shot while Kerry ws in Nam. <br />3. The Khmar Rough existed in 68. <br />4. That he Kerry is a war criminal, that we the USA carried out systematic war crimes, and they were approved from the top. <br />5. and that he was in Cambodia on Dec 24th 1968 <br /> <br />All five statements are and have been proven wrong. The Swift boat vet's have drawn into question 2 of kerry purple hearts, and his bronze and silver star and the evidence is compelling. The Swift Boats vets have been proven right already on at least the two things I mentioned above. I believe they have earned the right to speak and I would recommend this book to everyone who is planing on voting this year. And we should all demand kerry sign the form to release ALL his military record and also release his Diary. What is he hiding???	2004-09-02
US	52502095	R2176L1V0U5PVP	0310241448	911984495	The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God	Books	5	25	36	N	Y	Just What The Doctor Ordered!!!	In The Case for a Creator, by Lee Strobel we have one of the most important Books of our time. This is just what the doctor ordered, as we enter a time of testing and choosing, in the world today. Strobel a former atheist (I don't believe in atheist's), who came to belief in God by his study of science and on studying the resurrection of Christ, takes us all on a remarkable investigation into the newest scientific information on how the universe began (remember for hundreds of years science taught that the universe was eternal-study state theory). Strobel interviews the world's top scientific experts and follows the evidence, the facts, to wherever they may lead. Strobel presents all that evidence to us in a way all us layman and laywomen can understand. Strobel's facts and evidence leads us to the confident conclusion that we can make the case for a Creator with scientific facts. I would encourage everyone to read this book. To the skeptics you may find what your looking for; To the Christian you will find a blessing.	2004-04-28
US	52502095	R3HMTMFKTIB0BX	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	14	31	N	N	A Very Worthwhile Read!!!	Its funny I have read many of the reviews hear and I see that many people aren't actually reading the book. Its obvious to me that they are baseing there reviews on Woodward's interview on 60 minutes; and that is very funny. On that interview, Woodward focused on a few &quot;negative's,&quot; Such as president Bush Believes in God, to get on the anti-Bush bandwagon. I really think he did this so that those anti-Bush people (who are buying the Moore, Frankin, etc., propaganda books) would buy his book as well; Not caring if they would actually read it; and that was a brilliant marketing tool. What we get when we read Plan of Attack is an inside account of the inner workings, of an administration, making a HARD decision to go to war. We have all the pros and cons laid out for the President by his staff and intelligence. And what we see is that the evidence is presented to a president who is on top of everything, a president who is skeptical and a president who is in charge. Also the intelligence was presented as a slam dunk (read the book). So the president decided to make the hard choice and go to war; even if we have to do it alone (of course we do have some help Great Britain, Italy, Poland, etc.). Woodward's shows President Bush in a totally different light then all the anti Bush Books, and that is because he got on the inside. While this book is not absolute truth, we must remember there are always flaws, and choicses and biases, etc., it is still a very good account of the inner working of the Bush Administration and will be a good resource for Historians. This is a good read, and if you purchased this book, I only ask one thing, Read it!!!!!	2004-04-23
US	52502095	RGUSKI2Q5SVGT	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	18	42	N	N	Very good account of the inner workings of the Adm...	Its funny I have read many of the reviews hear and I see that these people aren't actually reading the book. Its obvious that they are basing there reviews on Woodward's interview on 60 minutes and that is very funny. On that interview, they focused on the negative, to get on the anti-Bush bandwagon so that those anti-Bush people (who are buying the Moore, Frankin propaganda books) would buy the book as well (knowing they won't actually read it) and that was brilliant. What you get when you read Paln of Attack is an inside account of the inner workings of an administration making a HARD decision to go to war. We have all the pros and cons laid outfor the President. The evidence presented to a president who is on top of everything, skeptical and in charge, was presented as a slam dunk (read the book). So the president decided to make the hard choice and go to war; even if we have to do it alone (of course we do have some help Great Britain, Italy, Poland, etc.). Woodward's shows President Bush in a totally different light then all the anti Bush Books, and that is because he got on the inside (he of course has biases we all do). While this book is not absolute truth, we must remember there are always flaws, and choice and biases, etc., it is still a very good account of the inner working of the Bush Administration and will be a good resource for Historians in the feature. This is a good read, and if you bought this book, just cause you thought it was bashing Bush; Read it I dear you!!!!	2004-04-22
US	52502095	RVBO50WCPPLUS	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	1	21	130	N	N	Should be called Why I committed Perjury!!!!	Richard Clark was are tzar on terrorism for a number of years, especially during the Clinton Administration when Al Quada rose up to be the strong organization they were on 9-11. Thousands of Americans were killed on Clark's watch and finally the Bush Administration demoted him (after he kept insisting that the biggest threat to the United states of America is cyber terrorism, WHAT????). This book is a preemptive hit on the congressional committee (The 9-11 Commission) who will be interviewing Mr. Clark, about his HUGE failures, while he was tzar. Clark expects you and I to believe that President Bush after 8 months in office is responsible for the terrorism attack upon the United States (I Guess even all the attacks during the Clinton administration). Also Clark reports his subjective opinions as fact, like he says (after 9-11) Ms Rice had a look on her face like she never heard of Al Quiada, this is insane. George Bush mentioned Al Quada in speeches when he was running for the presidency and Rice was his main advisor. And that He, the terror Tzar, and the Clinton administration, are completely innocent. Heck He only had 10 years to get Bin laden (Clinton had 8 years), And Hey so what if the Sudanese Government offered Bin Laden to the Clinton Administration 3 times. Sudan offered to arrest him and hand him right over to us the USA in a neutral country. The BIG question that Clark does not answer in this book is Why He and Clinton did not accept Sudan's offers? Also there were at least 12 occasions (counting those 3) to get Bin Laden during the Clinton Administration. Remember we were lucky the 1993 attack did not take the towers down then, they the terrorists, miscalculated the amount of explosives needed, thankfully. The President at the time, Clinton, only mentioned the attack ONE TIME in his whole presidency (the next Saturday on his radio address). Clinton said Law Enforcement was handling it. Clark and Clinton are going to have to try and answer those questions when they stands under oath in front of the 9-11 commission. Well, Clark does admit the Clinton administration did little to nothing to stop terrorism, but insist it was the right wings fault for investigated Clinton's scandals that ties Clinton up. This book is not worth the waste of trees it took to print it. instead read Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11 by Gerald L. Posner; Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror by Richard Miniter (also read Miniter's interview with Richard Clark in this book, and you can catch him contradicting himself left and right); The Sword of the Prophet: History, Theology, Impact on the World by Srdja Trifkovic and American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us by Steven Emerson and you will get a balanced view about why the terrorism happened by 4 authors with no ax's to grind. One last thing the Bush Administration has been very careful not to Blame the Clinton administration for not getting Bin Laden, its a shame Clinton and his apologists do not do the same. Four last things, One:if Clark really believed president Bush was endangering Americans, then why did he NOT resign in protest (instead he seek a higher position in the Bush administration) and speak out to the press 3 years ago? two; Why in the world would anyone be thinking of Movies while the World Trade center Burned, is this guy nuts??? Three Why did his background report to the press a year and a half agao conterdict much of what is in his book. And 4: we should all demand the 9-11 commission and the congressional hearing on 9-11 should release all of Clarks testimony to the public so all of you who buy this book (I got a free copy) can see try and figure out when he was lying. The fact is he was either lying to the 9-11 commission when he was on TV or he was lying to them in private sessions. he can't have it both ways.ns when they stands under oath in front of the 9-11 commission. Well, Clark does admit the Clinton administration did little to nothing to stop terrorism, but insist it was the right wings fault for investigated Clinton's scandals that ties Clinton up. This book is not worth the waste of trees it took to print it. instead read Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11 by Gerald L. Posner; Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror by Richard Miniter (also read Miniter's interview with Richard Clark in this book, and you can catch him contradicting himself left and right); The Sword of the Prophet: History, Theology, Impact on the World by Srdja Trifkovic and American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us by Steven Emerson and you will get a balanced view about why the terrorism happened by 4 authors with no ax's to grind. One last thing the Bush Administration has been very careful not to Blame the Clinton administration for not getting Bin Laden, its a shame Clinton and his apologists do not do the same. Four last things, One:if Clark really believed president Bush was endangering Americans, then why did he NOT resign in protest (instead he seek a higher position in the Bush administration) and speak out to the press 3 years ago? two; Why in the world would anyone be thinking of Movies while the World Trade center Burned, is this guy nuts??? Three Why did his background report to the press a year and a half agao conterdict much of what is in his book. And 4: we should all demand the 9-11 commission and the congressional hearing on 9-11 should release all of Clarks testimony to the public so all of you who buy this book (I got a free copy) can see try and figure out when he was lying. The fact is he was either lying to the 9-11 commission when he was on TV or he was lying to them in private sessions. he can't have it both ways.	2004-03-28
US	52502095	R3CEVIACJN1P4	0310259320	778725307	Experiencing the Passion of Jesus: A Discussion Guide on History's Most Important Event	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Great little Study Guide.	This booklet; Experiencing The Passion Of Jesus is a great little study guide on the Passion of Jesus Christ. With Mel Gibson's Movie, The Passion of The Chris,t Doing So well, this is a great study guide for all who have seen the movie; and more a great study guide for anyone even if they have not seen the Movie. Its very much a biblical based study and is totally sound. It would be great for non Christians to explain why Christ had to die; for New Christians to gain a better understanding of there religion; and even for mature Christians, to refresh our beliefs, and to be able to express our beliefs to seekers.	2004-03-23
US	52502095	R1CSPEP71TQ1VK	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	1	18	78	N	N	opps caught Mr franken in a lie!!!!!!!!	In reading Mr. franken's book I see where he stakes the credibility of the book on telling the truth. well, well, well, Mr. franken insists that President Bill Clinton NEVER received offered from the Sudanese Government to turn over Osama Bin Ladin to the USA. Well, unfortunately for Mr. Franken former President Bill Clinton has admitted that this is the absolute truth and that he regretted this over any thing else that happened in his administration. It appears he asked Janet Reno if we should accept the offer's from the Sudan and Reno's opinion was that we did not have the evidence to try him yet. So Clinton said NO to the 3 offers from the Sudan. On the last offer he told to Sudan to let Osama go on to Afghanistan well, Mr. frankin maybe I should write a book about you lying, you got some explaining to do.	2004-03-23
US	52502095	R3HQYTBSYGMEAQ	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	10	22	N	N	I Hope We learn from History!!!!!	What Sean Hannity does in his book Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism is show us that evil does exists in the world, he uses examples from our past like the Holocaust, WW2, the USSR and there domination of Eastern Europe; and he brings the argument to the present with what Islamic terrorists have been doing. He also shows us how we (most of us anyway) use to believe in Good and Evil and that we would rally against evil and defeat it. He proves this out with the above examples of WW2 and the Cold war (both of which we the USA won). Hannity also shows us that there were always appeasers of evil in the world; Such as Nevil Chamberlain who appeased Hitler and John Kerry (and the Nuclear freeze movement) Who was (and were) an appeaser of the USSR. He shows us that the appeasers are growing in our country and these appeasers have no moral base. They are relativists and do not believe in good or evil. If the relativists appeasers were the majority in the 40s we would be speaking German now and the whole Jewish culture would have been wiped off the face of the earth (which is the Islamic terrorists primary goal of today). You would have to wonder how anyone could think WW2 and The Holocaust, Stopping Hitler and defeating communism was relative? And now they, the appeasers, see Stopping terrorists is relative. The Big problem is there ranks are growing, and Hannity is calling us all back to solid moral beliefs, and a belief in good and evil. Beliefs that would cause us to fight for our freedom and democracy again. Hannity proves his points with example after example. Hannity is totally logically consistent and I think this book is a must read for every American, a must read for every Lover of Freedom and a must read especially for anyone who thinks that terrorism is over exaggerated. We had better learn from History or we may lose our way of life.	2004-03-23
US	52502095	R17SXHX68CDFXW	1578212057	448065211	Alien Encounters: The Secret Behind The UFO Phenomenon	Books	5	52	57	N	Y	Best single Book on the UFO phenomna!!!!!!	Alien Encounters is the single best book on the UFO Phenomena I have ever read, and I have read at least 100 books on the subject (hyek's, Valle's, Hopkins, Striber's etc.,). All aspects of the UFO Phenomena are covered, from encounters of the 1st, 2ed, 3ed and 4th kind; to an examination of the History of the Phenomena; to what the Bible has to say about the subject. I don't want to get into the conclusions that Missler and Eastman reach, But what I do what to say is if you are interested in the UFO Phenomena, get this book: if you have seen a UFO, get this Book: If you believe you have been abducted, get this book: Also all Christians should read this book.  Let me just say we all need to get educated about what may be a coming gobel deception and the cause of the coming apostey.	2004-03-22
US	52502095	R3INM9NLXHUTWQ	0736908358	281488860	The Complete Bible Prophecy Chart (6-Panel Foldout)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Nice!!!	This is a nice fold out chart of the whole Biblical scenario from a dispensational view. It makes a good reference and book mark for my Bible. I would also recommend LaHaye and ice's book charting the end times, it is fully comprehensive.	2004-03-13
US	52502095	R10ZSIKBX2LZWO	0736901388	740807571	Charting the End Times: A Visual Guide to Understanding Bible Prophecy (Tim LaHaye Prophecy Library™)	Books	5	22	28	N	Y	Great job charting Biblical Prophecy!!!	Tim LaHaye and Thomas Ice do a great job hear in this book Charting the end times. Its really more then a book of charts although they are plenty of Charts included it is a book laying out the Bible prophecy's of the end time, in order; and laying out bible prophecy really from the beginning of time to the end time. The charts are a good size and easy to understand. The Book starts off the a standard dispensational chart. many Christians believe that God usus Dispensations (certain time periods) to deal with humankind. For instance we are in the dispensation of Grace right now, which followed the dispensation of the law which ended when Christ died for us. The book goes on to take a standard per tribulation rapture stand (although explains all views) and a pre millennium stance on the return of Christ (again although it explains other views as well) A pre millennium stance means that Christ comes back (his second coming) and seats up the millennium (a 1000 year rule of peace on earth). There are charts all along the way to help put into perspective each dispensation and each foretold event. The Whole book of revelation is also laid out in a chart. LaHaye and Ice prove out There Views with scripture reference (bible quotes) after scripture reference. This is a great book for anyone who is interested in Bible prophecy, may also be a good witnessing tool for non believers seeing that many prophecy's are coming true right in front of our eyes today and also this is a great book to have around for those left behind.	2004-03-13
US	52502095	R2FYJKF46FAM76	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	5	26	32	N	Y	Wonderful!!!	I went to see the Passion of the Christ and it is the most Powerful movie I have ever seen. I absoultley loved the movie and had to have the book as well. The BOOK is filled with beatufil pictures from the movie. Before I went to the movie I read many of the negative reviews and thought I was in for some kind of documentary on crucifixion, or a gory movie filled with violence; but instead it was a riveting story, and the violence fit the movie theme perfectly (I think most reviews just don't get it, cause they don't believe in sin) this movie is about GOD's LOVE for us sinners; the violence Christ suffered serves the purpose of forgiving all our sins. Also I heard all the arguments about the movie being anti Semitic, but how could it be, Jesus, the Apostles (especially John who is featured throughout the movie), Marry Jesus' mother and Mary were all Jewish. The movies shows that only some priests wanted Jesus crucified and that they stirred up a mob to pressure pilot to put Christ to death, as the scriptures say. It in no way casts blame on all Jewish people and in fact if everyone would just read ISAIHA chapter 53 in the Jewish scriptures that would see that the Christ came to die for us. Also I heard an argument that it shows Jews as ugly and hooked nosed and this is pure BS, the ugliest person in the movie was the actor who played the apostle Peter. Really the Roman's look the worst in this movie; All the priest looked normal to me. Gibson stuck to the scriptures for the most part while taking some artistic lenience. The Passion is both scripturally and Historically Accurate. The movie (all 2:06) went by fast. While I would not call this movie entertaining (it was in a way), because of the subject matter, it was emotionally gripping, and visually engrossing and I was completely transfixed by the movie. My mind did not wonder off (like usual at a movie), Not once. It garbed my attention from the first moment in the garden and kept it till the resurrection. The passion of The Christ is brilliant, Fantastic, and I think the best and most important movie ever made. the movie has a powerful soundtrack and the cinematography is fantastic. Seeing it I want to serve Christ all the more, and I want to see this movie again. The Book is a nice companion to the movie as a witness to Christ. Kudos to Mel Gibson who put his whole career on the line to make this witness to Christ, the word is out NO ONE in Hollywood will ever work with him again. This BOOK the Passion of The Christ has wonderful Pictures and scripture references as well. It would be nice to have everyone learning those scriptures. Jesus fufilled 300 prophecy's when he came as the suffering servant see (ISA 53) and soon he will come back and fulfill 500 more end time prophecies (see psalm 2 and Daniel ch 9-11in the Jewish scriptures and Matthew 24 and the whole book of revelation in the Christian scripture's). Stay tuned.sion of The Christ is brilliant, Fantastic, and I think the best and most important movie ever made. the movie has a powerful soundtrack and the cinematography is fantastic. Seeing it I want to serve Christ all the more, and I want to see this movie again. The Book is a nice companion to the movie as a witness to Christ. Kudos to Mel Gibson who put his whole career on the line to make this witness to Christ, the word is out NO ONE in Hollywood will ever work with him again. This BOOK the Passion of The Christ has wonderful Pictures and scripture references as well. It would be nice to have everyone learning those scriptures. Jesus fufilled 300 prophecy's when he came as the suffering servant see (ISA 53) and soon he will come back and fulfill 500 more end time prophecies (see psalm 2 and Daniel ch 9-11in the Jewish scriptures and Matthew 24 and the whole book of revelation in the Christian scripture's). Stay tuned.	2004-03-11
US	52502095	R29GUZRI018XXQ	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Call to action!!!	What Sean Hannity does in his book Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism is show us that evil does exists in the world, he uses examples from our past like the Holocaust, WW2, the USSR and there domination of Eastern Europe; and he brings the argument to the present with what Islamic terrorists have been doing. He also shows us how we (most of us anyway) use to believe in Good and Evil and that we would rally against evil and defeat it. He proves this out with the above examples of WW2 and the Cold war (both of which we the USA won). Hannity also shows us that there were always appeasers of evil in the world; Such as Nevil Chamberlain who appeased Hitler and John Kerry (and the Nuclear freeze movement) Who was (and were) an appeaser of the USSR. He shows us that the appeasers are growing in our country and these appeasers have no moral base. They are relativists and do not believe in good or evil. If the relativists appeasers were the majority in the 40s we would be speaking German now and the whole Jewish culture would have been wiped off the face of the earth (which is the Islamic terrorists primary goal of today). You would have to wonder how anyone could think WW2 and The Holocaust, Stopping Hitler and defeating communism was relative? And now they, the appeasers, see Stopping terrorists is relative. The Big problem is there ranks are growing, and Hannity is calling us all back to solid moral beliefs, and a belief in good and evil. Beliefs that would cause us to fight for our freedom and democracy again. Hannity proves his points with example after example. Hannity is totally logically consistent and I think this book is a must read for every American, a must read for every Lover of Freedom and a must read especially for anyone who thinks that terrorism is over exaggerated.	2004-03-09
US	52502095	R1SSVPQ2X2RB9Q	0971410038	111951205	The Lost Shipwreck of Paul	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	A great read!!!!!	I absolutely loved reading The Lost Shipwreck of Paul by Robert Cornuke. When I purchased the book, I thought It was just going to be a dry archeological or apologetics book on searching for some evidence to prove the historicity of the Biblical author Luke (who wrote the Gospel according to Luke and the acts of the Apostles). While the book is about archeological discovery and about proving the historicity of Luke, it is much much more. First off I like Cornuke's writing style, he writes in a way like an investigator (he was a policeman at one time) yet paints word pictures in a nice way, away that fills the mind with his adventures. The Book is very entertaining and I found myself getting lost in the text many times, wondering off to the places and events he was describing. I think this book may spark you interests in many things, Scuba diving for one (this part will especially appeal to us males), Visiting Malta for vacation (Love the word pictures, and there are a few color pictures inside the book, the Maltese sound like a wonderful people), getting involved in archeology (maybe in relating to the historicity of the Bible), and in seeking out the Bible for yourself. Weather you are a believer in the Bible or not I think you will find this book thoroughly enjoyable.	2004-02-16
US	52502095	R1HCHZ5728GCLL	188884843X	376743357	Vanished into Thin Air: The Hope of Every Believer	Books	5	39	44	N	N	The single best book I have ever read on the rapture!!!	This is the single best book I have ever read on the rapture and all the questions related to that subject. Lindsey does a thoroughly scholarly job in examining all the scriptures on the rapture and on the second coming. He sets out by putting aside his pre tribulation, pre wrath, and pre millennial views instead seeking nothing but the truth from the scriptures; He also examines the history of the belief (this part is a must for reconstructionists). What ever you believe about the rapture; this is a must read book; it will challenged many assumptions and also strengthen others. I won't get into what Lindsey's conclusions are, I will let you find out that for yourselves. Let me just give this book Vanished Into Thin Air the highest possible recommendation.	2004-02-13
US	52502095	R3M5L9D4619W40	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	1	87	192	N	N	More and more lies!!!	These bookas about Liars are great although hear are a few quotes and lies Mr Franken missed.<br />&quot;One way or the other, we are determined to deny Iraq the capacity to<BR> Develop weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them.<BR> That is our bottom line.&quot;<BR> - President Clinton, Feb. 4, 1998<br /> &quot;If Saddam rejects peace and we have to use force, our purpose is<BR> clear. We want to seriously diminish the threat posed by Iraq's weapons<BR> of mass destruction program.&quot;<BR> - President Clinton, Feb. 17, 1998<br /> &quot;Iraq is a long way from [the USA], but what happens there matters a<BR>great deal here. For the risks that the leaders of a rogue state will<BR> use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons against us or our allies is<BR>the greatest security threat we face.&quot;<BR> - Madeline Albright, Feb 18, 1998<br /> &quot;He will use those weapons of mass destruction again, as he has ten<BR> times since 1983.&quot;<BR> - Sandy Berger, Clinton National Security Adviser, Feb, 18, 1998<br /> &quot;[W]e urge you, after consulting with Congress, and consistent with<BR> the U.S. Constitution and laws, to take necessary actions (including, if<BR> appropriate, air and missile strikes on suspect Iraqi sites) to respond<BR> effectively to the threat posed by Iraq's refusal to end its weapons of<BR> mass destruction programs.&quot;<BR> - Letter to President Clinton, signed by Sens. Carl Levin,<BR> Tom Daschle, John Kerry, and others Oct. 9, 1998<br /> &quot;Saddam Hussein has been engaged in the development of weapons of mass<BR> destruction technology which is a threat to countries in the region and<BR> he has made a mockery of the weapons inspection<BR> process.&quot;<BR> - Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D, CA), Dec. 16, 1998<br /> &quot;Hussein has ... chosen to spend his money on building weapons of mass<BR> destruction and palaces for his cronies.&quot;<BR> - Madeline Albright, Clinton Secretary of State, Nov. 10, 1999<br /> &quot;There isno doubt that ... Saddam Hussein has invigorated his weapons<BR> programs. Reports indicate that biological, chemical and nuclear<BR> programs continue apace and may be back to pre-Gulf War status. In<BR> addition, Saddam continues to redefine delivery systems and is doubtless<BR> using the cover of a licit missile program to develop longer-range<BR> missiles that will threaten the United States and our allies.&quot;<BR>- Letter to President Bush, Signed by Sen. Bob Graham (D, FL,)<BR> and others, December 5, 2001<br /> &quot;We begin with the common belief that Saddam Hussein is a tyrant and a<BR> threat to the peace and stability of the region. He has ignored the<BR> mandated of the United Nations and is building weapons of mass<BR> destruction and the means of delivering them.&quot;<BR> - Sen. Carl Levin (D, MI), Sept. 19, 2002<br /> &quot;We know that he has stored secret supplies of biological and chemical<BR> weapons throughout his country.&quot;<BR> - Al Gore, Sept. 23, 2002<br /> &quot;Iraq's search for weapons of mass destruction has proven impossible<BR> to deter and we should assume that it will continue for as long as<BR> Saddam is in power.&quot;<BR> - Al Gore, Sept. 23, 2002<br /> &quot;We have known for many years that Saddam Hussein is seeking and<BR> developing weapons of mass destruction.&quot;<BR> - Sen. Ted Kennedy (D, MA), Sept. 27, 2002<br /> &quot;The last UN weapons inspectors left Iraq in October of 1998. We are<BR> confident that Saddam Hussein retains some stockpiles of chemical and<BR> biological weapons, and that he has since embarked on a crash course to<BR> build up his chemical and biological warfare capabilities. Intelligence<BR> reports indicate that he is seeking nuclear weapons...&quot;<BR> - Sen. Robert Byrd (D, WV), Oct. 3, 2002<br /> &quot;I will be voting to give the President of the United States the<BR> authority<BR> to use force-- if necessary-- to disarm Saddam Hussein because I<BR> believe that a deadly arsenal of weaponsof mass destruction in his<BR> hands is a real and grave threat to our security.&quot;<BR> - Sen. John F. Kerry (D, MA), Oct. 9, 2002<br /> &quot;There is unmistakable evidence that Saddam Hussein is working<BR> aggressively to develop nuclear weapons and will likely have nuclear<BR> weapons within the next five years ... We also should remember we have<BR> always underestimated the progress Saddam has made in development of<BR> weapons of mass destruction.&quot;<BR> - Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D, WV), Oct 10, 2002<br /> &quot;He has systematically violated, over the course of the past 11 years,<BR> every significant UN resolution that has demanded that he disarm and<BR> destroy his chemical and biological weapons, and any nuclear capacity.<BR> This he has refused to do&quot; Rep.<BR> - Henry Waxman (D, CA), Oct. 10, 2002<br /> &quot;In the four years since the inspectors left, intelligence reports<BR> show that Saddam Hussein has worked to rebuild his chemical and<BR> biological weapons stock, his missile delivery capability, and his<BR> nuclear program. He has also given aid, comfort, and sanctuary to<BR> terrorists, including al Qaeda members<BR> .. It is clear, however, that if left unchecked, Saddam Hussein will<BR> continue to increase his capacity to wage biological and chemical<BR> warfare, and will keep trying to develop nuclear weapons.&quot;<BR> - Sen. Hillary Clinton (D, NY), Oct 10, 2002<br /> &quot;We are in possession of what I think to be compelling evidence that<BR> Saddam Hussein has, and has had for a number of years, a developing<BR> capacity for the production and storage of weapons of mass<BR> destruction.&quot;<BR> - Sen. Bob Graham (D, FL), Dec. 8, 2002<br /> &quot;Without question, we need to disarm Saddam Hussein. He is a brutal,<BR> murderous dictator, leading an oppressive regime ... He presents a<BR> particularly grievous threat because he is so consistently prone to<BR> miscalculation ... And now he is miscalculating America's response to<BR> his continued deceit and his consistent grasp for weapons of mass<BR> destruction... So the threat of Saddam Hussein with weapons of mass<BR> destruction is real ...&quot;<BR> - Sen. John F. Kerry (D, MA), Jan. 23. 2003<br />well I guess there liars, if Franken is right they must be.	2004-02-11
US	52502095	RKQLKV3YZOCTI	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	9	19	N	N	More junk for the gullible minded!	There is No doubt the book is written well and in a manor they could cause one to become interested in the subject matter; but the information in the book is false. Let me give one example. Brown contends that the cannon of the scripture was put into existence in the 5th century AD., but the fact is, Tartillian, a Lawyer and Early church father, listed the cannon in total in the second century A.D. The truth is most early Church fathers were in agreement, this book takes a small minority opinion that was considered a hearsay at the time and makes it the dominate belief at the time. That is horrible scholarship. Most of Browns theories are not from the early church traditions, as I just sated he took a semi early heresy; but he gathered most of his information from the middle ages, when the knights Templars came up with he holy blood line BS. Really this is a rehash of a rehash, holy blood holy grail also did the same thing 20 years ago. It would be better if people sake the truth. One good way would be to read the new testament, The Apostle Paul's epistles totally blow Brown out of the water; Read the Lost Shipwreck of Paul for a great Historical book. Read Da Vinci if you must but look at is as fiction and entertainment; Read the new testament if you want the TRUTH.	2004-02-10
US	52502095	R1UU0P5H17BNU2	0937958573	168952609	The Two Babylons	Books	5	53	74	N	N	A Mixed Bag but worthwhile!!!	Alexander Hislop's book the Two Babylon's is a mixed bag. On the one hand it is meticulously researched and does a great job of showing us how the Church (Mostly Medieval Catholic church) adopted and tried to christianize pagan symbols and practices. But on the other hand it is over kill and I disagree with his eschatology. I do not believe the office of the papacy is the Anti Christ (the beast out of the sea-gentile), the Bible clearly teaches that the anti Christ is a feature person who will be the head of a reformed European empire (maybe like the EU) he will be a secular leader (religions in worshiping Satan but not a religions leader) while the false prophet (the beast out of the land-Israeli) out of Israel will be the religions leader who backs him up. As a catholic (born again charismatic verity) I would encourage every catholic and every Christian to GET this book for the research aspect of it alone. It is filled with information we all need to know. Whit that knowledge we should challenge the extraneous doctrines in our church (assembly). such as the Mother and child worship and cults of the Virgin many in the catholic church, Why are we giving the attributes of the Holy Spirit to Marry? Why we call it the mass instead of services or an assembly? Why does the wafer have IHS on it? Why is it kept in a chamber with a pagan symbol on it? We should challenge the infallibility of the pope (only God is infallible), We should challenge the rosary it was given by an aspiration and we should challenge all aspirations (did anyone bother to test the spirit or spirits like the Bible commands us to? Did anyone check out the doctrine coming from aspirations against the scripture? And least and not least the most important error of all that salvation through faith and works, the bible clearly teaches salvation is by faith alone, a glorious gift (GRACE) from GOD; all James was pointing out is that a spirit filled believer will do good works as a matter of course, we do not take one verse in the bible and let it make the doctrine against hundreds of verses, It should be the other way around. Salvation is by grace though faith it is not of works least anyone should boast. In closing this book the two Babylon's can help us to clean out the extraneous and pagan doctrine from not only the catholic church but from all churches as we approach the end times, It is time (long overdo) to reach out and let the Holy Spirit work through us, and this book will help to equip us not to fall into pagan practices.take one verse in the bible and let it make the doctrine against hundreds of verses, It should be the other way around. Salvation is by grace though faith it is not of works least anyone should boast. In closing this book the two Babylon's can help us to clean out the extraneous and pagan doctrine from not only the catholic church but from all churches as we approach the end times, It is time (long overdo) to reach out and let the Holy Spirit work through us, and this book will help to equip us not to fall into pagan practices.	2004-02-03
US	52502095	R218JUOL7K2AS8	0916938026	378692610	Great Prophecies of The Bible	Books	1	8	24	N	N	I don't buy it!	Woodrow is a historicists he believed at the time of writing this book that all the prophecies in the Bible both Old and New testament have been fulfilled except the second coming of Christ. I don't buy the Historicists position at all. They do not take the prophecies literally, they have to bend and twist the scriptures to fit there beliefs and they state categorically that the anti Christ is the office of the papacy. Something He refutes in a later work of his. I don't buy the anti Christ as being an office of anything, but an actual individual who will be tossed into Hell before the Millennium starts. You cannot toss an office into hell its a person. Also He did not take into account the false prophet of Israel (a reconstituted Israel) and blends him with Anti Christ. No historicists take the prophecy's of a reconstituted Israel literally, but try to say the Church is Physical Israel (we were graphed in as spiritual Israel but we are not Physical Israel) and Yet hear Israel is, reformed in 1948, Jerusalem reestablished under Jewish control in 1967. We see The EU Lining up to be the last reformed Roman empire based on democracy as the scriptures predicted. We see the Russia bear with all her arms arming all the Muslim nations as the scriptures predicted. We see China with a HUGE military as the Scriptures predicted and we see Israel surrounded by her enemies and being a stumbling stone to the whole world as the scriptures predicted. To ignore the prophecy's of a reconstituted Israel is to ignore Moses' Prophesy, Ezekiel's and Daniel's as well as all the major and minor prophets of the Old testament and of the Lord Jesus Himself. There were 300 prophecies of the Christ first coming and 500 of the second, there is just to much to ignore and we must take them literally. If this does not convince you read Matthew 24 and hear Christ's words. Also read all the prophecy's in the Old testament with the DAY OF The LORD mentioned and tell me when a war like that ever happened. Read the Book of revelation in the new testament and you will see that the Historicists position does not hold up. One thing historicists never seem to understand is that there are multiple fulfillment's of prophecy's and also partial fulfillment's. Jesus said this himself about John being a type of Elijah, he said Elijah was still to come (after John) but to those that can accept it John was an Elijah (so a multiple fufillment). If we take the scripture literally on salvation through grace by faith, then we must take the prophecy's of the second coming just as literally.ed. Read the Book of revelation in the new testament and you will see that the Historicists position does not hold up. One thing historicists never seem to understand is that there are multiple fulfillment's of prophecy's and also partial fulfillment's. Jesus said this himself about John being a type of Elijah, he said Elijah was still to come (after John) but to those that can accept it John was an Elijah (so a multiple fufillment). If we take the scripture literally on salvation through grace by faith, then we must take the prophecy's of the second coming just as literally.	2004-02-03
US	52502095	R29ZMJAD6BHEEH	0310918634	704726907	NIV Audio Bible Dramatized CD	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	GREAT, what I have been waiting for!!!	This is what I have been waiting for, the Bible on CD, in a great small sized CD case, in a good version-like the NIV. 64 CDs in all, organized well, in a CD holder that is only like 12&quot; long, by 8&quot; across, by 2 1/2&quot; wide. I have had the Bible on tape for a long time, but they wear out, so I am glad to get the Bible on CD (also these CDs have a lifetime guarantee). Its perfect for keeping on the desk, by the bed, or with you on the go. It can easily fit in a back pack and is perfect for taking along in the car. The CDs sound great. And Amazon has a nice price on the set (Not much more then getting the NIV Bible in print, in leather). If your looking for a good version of the Bible on CD, and in a nice small size CD holder, this is it.	2004-01-15
US	52502095	RVGQ8CSP0OHE1	9998203902	370408013	Hal Lindsey's Prophetic Jigsaw: Five Predictions That Failed (Biblical Perspectives, No 3)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Bacchiocchi proven wrong!!!	I would say ansd write that everyone read the BOOK The Late Great Palate Earth, and ignore jigsaw and other books like it. In the Late Great Palate Earth you will see that Hal Lindsey claims noting, but that he is studying Scripture; He makes NO claims of being a prophet, and makes NO prophecys in the BOOK. What he does do is look at the Bible predictions for the last days and tries to see how they fit in with current events. He makes a compelling case that we are in the last days, read it for yourselves. The Book Was written in the 1960s and hear he warned us about the Islamic Explosion in it. He shows how the Prophecies of Israel's return, from all over the world, to there land (1948), is a key sign to the end times; He also shows how they would come back into Israel first, and get Jerusalem back at a later time (1967). Hal shows how the Bible predicts how there will be four major spears of influence in the world in the end times; Including a united Europe (Europe is uniting and its Happening in front of our own eyes); an Arab and Muslims confederation (Iran, Jordan, Libya, etc.,) with the same goal of defeating Israel; The Russians and her allies in the North (Most of the -stain countries, all part or all Muslim country's) and an Asian Power base (China, India). All of this is lining up right in front of our own eyes. Hear is an example of How bacciocchi is wrong; Bacchiocchi sets out to argue that Hal Lindsey is a false Prophet because he predicted four events in his first book and five hear in his scond on this subject, that Bacchiocchi believes will never happen. Bacchiocchi claim that Europe could NEVER unite. Well, they are uniting, right in front of our own eyes. It started with the treaty of Rome that was pushed by Claude Monet, and has worked into the EU and a unified Currency. Hal shows how the Bible predicts that 10 nations would start this off and that is exactly how it is happening as Ten European nations did sign the original EU agreement. So I would say that Bacchiocchi's argument falls apart already. If you read his book you will see his other arguments fall apart as well, all you have to do is turn on the news to figure that out. All of this is lining up right as I write, are you going believe your own eyes or mockers like Samuele Bacchiocchi; Read Hal's book for your self and study the scriptures for yourselves and make up your own mind. Just remember As the Apostle Peter wrote in 2 Peter Chapter 3 remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. First of all you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own passions and saying, &quot;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.&quot; In my opinion, Case closed. I am still waiting for Bacchiocchi to apologies to Hal Lindsey for his slander.say that Bacchiocchi's argument falls apart already. If you read his book you will see his other arguments fall apart as well, all you have to do is turn on the news to figure that out. All of this is lining up right as I write, are you going believe your own eyes or mockers like Samuele Bacchiocchi; Read Hal's book for your self and study the scriptures for yourselves and make up your own mind. Just remember As the Apostle Peter wrote in 2 Peter Chapter 3 remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. First of all you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own passions and saying, &quot;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.&quot; In my opinion, Case closed. I am still waiting for Bacchiocchi to apologies to Hal Lindsey for his slander.	2004-01-10
US	52502095	R147L7XG05WKZV	0825421330	395171206	Daniel in the Critics' Den: A Defense of the Historicity of the Book of Daniel	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Still up to date TODAY!	Sir Robert Anderson set out in there late 1800s to answer the Higher Biblical Critics who wanted to reject the book of Daniel the prophet as a book of the Hebrew cannon (Daniel In the critics Den was updated in the early 1900s and also in 1955). For they did not want to admit Daniel was written when the book claims to have been, because, Daniel predicted all the major coming world empires and predicted the precise time the Christ would come to Israel and be put to death and also predicted the destruction of Jerusalem. To admit this book were true you would have to admit God is true (or else Daniel is the best guesser in History). Anderson takes apart the critics arguments and his research is impeccable and stand up to this day: And is even more so buttressed by more and more facts being discovered by archeologists all though the 20th century and into the 21st. For instance the critics calm Daniel could not have been written at the time it said cause there was no king Bleshazzer, but archeologists have found out there was a king Belshazzer. Bleshazzer was the vice regent or vice king; there were two kings at the time, one Nebonidus, was out fighting wars and he put one Bleshazzer in charge, he never did get back to take charge of the nations capitol. It is also interesting to note that Bleshazzer promised to make Daniel 3ed leader for telling him what the writing on the wall meant, not second why? Because there were already two kings so he could not make Daniel 2ed ruler, only third. The BOOK of Daniel is proven right again. Not only that archeologists have found the actually order to go out and restore Jerusalem put forth by Artaxerxes. The truth is the case is closed and Anderson was the first to close it. Daniel was written, when it was claimed to be written, and he did predict all the successive coming kingdoms of Media Persia, Grace, and Rome; and Daniel did predict the date of Christ's first coming in the 69th sabbatical week of years in Daniel chapter 11, his death and the destruction of Jerusalem, and all that is left to be fulfilled is Daniel's 70th week which you can read about in Anderson's book The Coming prince. This book is a must read for Christians and skeptics alike.death and the destruction of Jerusalem, and all that is left to be fulfilled is Daniel's 70th week which you can read about in Anderson's book The Coming prince. This book is a must read for Christians and skeptics alike.	2004-01-06
US	52502095	R2WYMUKSBZ9OBC	0385504209	503118391	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	11	35	N	N	Interesting Fiction but Historically false	There is No doubt the book is written well and in a manor they cause one to become interested in the subjects but the information in the book is false. Let me give one example. Brown contends that the cannon of the scripture was put into existence in the 5th century AD., but the fact is, Tartillian a Lawyer and Early church father (in Alexandria Egypt) listed the cannon in total in the second century A.D. Most of Browns theories are not from the early church traditions, but from the middle ages, when the knights Templars came up with he holy blood line. Really this is a rehash of a rehash, holy blood holy grail also did the same thing 20 years ago. It would be better if people sake the truth. One good way would be to read the new testament, The Apostle Paul's epistles totally blow brown out of the water; Read Da Vinci if you must but look at is as fiction; Read the new testament if you want the TRUTH.	2004-01-06
US	52502095	R2QRITAOUU80DE	1930987021	499253158	Hal Lindsey's Prophetic Jigsaw Puzzle : Five Predictions that Failed!	Books	1	27	39	N	N	His book proven wrong.	I would say and write that everyone read the BOOK The Late Great Palate Earth, and ignore jigsaw and other books like it. BUT, if you do read Jigsaw you will see that Bacchiocchi sets out to argue that Hal Lindsey is a false Prophet because he predicted four events in his first book and five hear in his scond on this subject, that Bacchiocchi believes will never happen. Bacchiocchi claim that Europe could NEVER unite. Well, they are uniting, right in front of our own eyes. It started with the treaty of Rome that was pushed by Claude Monet, and has worked into the EU and a unified Currency. Hal shows how the Bible predicts that 10 nations would start this off and that is exactly how it is happening as Ten European nations did sign the original EU agreement. So I would say that Bacchiocchi's argument falls apart already. If you read his book you will see his other arguments fall apart as well, all you have to do is turn on the news to figure that out. Lindsey wrote the Late Great Planate earth in the late 1960s and in it he also warned us about the Islamic Explosion (long before anyone else sounded the alarm bell). Lindsey also shows how the Prophecies of Israel's return, from all over the world, to there land (1948), is a key sign to the end times; He also shows how it was predicted, in the Bible, that they would come back into Israel first, and get Jerusalem back at a later time (1967). Hal shows how the Bible predicts how there will be four major spears of influence in the world in the end times; Including a united Europe (Europe is uniting and its Happening in front of our own eyes); an Arab and Muslims confederation (Iran, Jordan, Libya, etc.,) with the same goal of defeating Israel; The Russians and her allies in the North (Most of the -stain countries, all part or all Muslim country's) and an Asian Power base (China, India). All of this is lining up right as I write, are you going believe your own eyes or mockers like Samuele Bacchiocchi; Read Hal's book for your self and study the scriptures for yourselves and make up your own mind. Just remember As the Apostle Peter wrote in 2 Peter Chapter 3 remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. First of all you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own passions and saying, &quot;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.&quot; In my opinion, Case closed. I am still waiting for Bacchiocchi to apologies to Hal Lindsey for his slander.ur self and study the scriptures for yourselves and make up your own mind. Just remember As the Apostle Peter wrote in 2 Peter Chapter 3 remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. First of all you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own passions and saying, &quot;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.&quot; In my opinion, Case closed. I am still waiting for Bacchiocchi to apologies to Hal Lindsey for his slander.	2003-12-21
US	52502095	RLQJ1I4NN7J3H	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	6	12	N	N	An Exciting read.	Left Behind is a very entertaining and Interesting story; What Tim Lahaye, Jerry B. Jenkins do is take the Bible prophecy's about the END TIMES and write a fictional story about how those times can come to pass. Its almost like Tim Lahaye, Jerry B. Jenkins are teaching us Bible Prophecy 101 along with presenting the Gospel Message at the same time, in an easy to understand and coherent manor. I think this is a good book for Christians and non Christians alike, because it is entertaining and exciting. It would be a good book for anyone who may be interested in what the Bible Prophecy's say about the end times; And may cause an interests in the Bible prophecy's to one who had no prior interests. It is easy to read and an exciting and scary read. It will peek your interests and cause you to want to continue to read the series. It may also cause an interests in the Bible prophecies and cause one to research the Bible and other more serious Prophecy study materiel and books by such Authors and scholars as Sir Robert Anderson (The Coming Prince and Daniel In The Critics den). Hal Lindsey (The Final Battle, the Late Great Planet Earth, There's A New World Coming, and Vanished). And Tim Lahaye (Are We In the End Times and Beginning of The End).	2003-12-19
US	52502095	R1TZQHGHXDDGG6	0385508980	546276988	The Mad Dog 100: The Greatest Sports Arguments of All Time	Books	5	4	10	N	Y	Great Job by the DOG.	I love the way, The Mad Dog 100: The Greatest Sports Arguments of All Time, is laid out. Its 100 short chapters on what the Doggie considers the top 100 sports arguments of all time (I guess in me saying that it is kind of redundant). So you can read it one chapter a day, or a few a day or read the whole thing in one sitting. It fits in with any persons type of reading pattern. Me I like to read 3-5 books at the same time, so this one is perfect. Its some lite but fun reading in-between all the heavy reading I have been doing. Some of the arguments are; What feat was more formidable Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak, or Ted Williams .406 season? Is Instant Reply an annoyance or an educational tool? Which athletes could have been separated at Birth? a very funny chapter. Which Baseball Players get all the Glory and never back it up? What moments are the biggest tearjerkers in sports History? What can be done to clean up sports? What's wrong with the collage football's national championship system? a very timely argument. Etc., 100 in all. For those of you not in the New York area Mad Dog Chris Russo is on one of the best sports talk shows in the country with his partner Mike Fransesca; its called Mike and the Mad Dog its on WFAN 660 in the afternoon and is only simulcast on the YES network. So you may have it on your cable or it you have the DISH. One great thing about this book is the memories it will bring back to you. I thoroughly enjoyed the book and am rereading it now. It would also be a great gift for any sports fan.	2003-12-16
US	52502095	R24O5BQSVQHISJ	1931628157	59395755	The Everlasting Hatred: The Roots of Jihad	Books	5	36	51	N	N	The truth about Muslim HATE!!!	In order to Understand the NAZI like hate many (if not most) Muslims hold for the Israelis; we must first understand there religion, there belief system. Hal Lindsey does a schollarly Job of tracing this \\"Everlasting Hatred\\" from Jacob and Essau (4000 years ago) all the way to modern times. You cannot understand, this hate, unless you understand that, the fact that Israel's existence proves the Muslims religion to be incorrect and proves Mohammed to be a false Prophet. The Muslim's have only two choices, One; at all coast they must destroy Israel to keep the prophet true; or two; they can change there beliefs, and moderate. Which do you think they will chose? Unfortunately, to many of them, choose the first way, the way of hate and violence and death. When you have a religion that teaches children to hate Israel and the Jews and all others who do not accept Mohamidism, and you teach them that by killing these people (infidels) they are ding Allah's will; and that by dying in the process of killing those who are not like them (infidels), then they are rewarded with paradise and pleasures beyond there imaginations; Then you get willing individuals to kill and even kill themselves in the process. Its life long brainwashing. Also where will that choice Lead the world too? Could it possibly lead to Armageddon? Read this book and You will get a better understanding of this insane hate and where it comes from. Lindsey also does a great job of tracing the history of the middle east (in a concise Way) and presents an interesting view of the Palestinians claims. This is a must read, for anyone and everyone who want's to understand the events that are unfolding in front of our very own eyes.	2003-12-12
US	52502095	R14DX5517596BW	0895260743	350381184	Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror	Books	5	31	42	N	Y	A  must read if you want to know the truth.	I have been reading many books on Bin Laden, Al Quaida, Muslim extremist and law enforcement as it relates to 9-11. I must say this book, Losing Bin Laden, is one of the best. I see Miniter being attacked in reviews as a right winger but the fact is he is a life long Democrat, who voted for Bill Clinton twice, so he has NO ax to grind against him in that regard. Losing Bin Laden is completely documented and thoroughly sourced. Even President Bill Clinton said himself in a taped speech in February 2002, to a New Your business Group, on why he did not accept Osama Bin Laden's extradition from the Sudan, &quot;I did not bring him hear because we had no basis on which to hold him, though we know he wanted to commit crimes against America.&quot;  I Guess he and his administration did not consider the 1993 Attack on the WTC as enough to put someone in jail over? And This statement confirms 1 of the 12 chances he and his administration had to get OBL. Losing Bin Laden centers on the History of the raise of Bin Laden in relation to the response of our intelligence agency's, State department, and the Clinton Administration's actions or lack there of. Many may think, why read a book about past failures in not realizing how dangerous Bin laden was before 9-11? Well, because the book is much more then an indictment of Clinton and His administration. It's so much more than an indictment on Clinton's legacy as president. This book documents all of Al Quada's attacks on the US and American citizens all over the world; Documents the History of this declared war (Jihod) on us the US; and How each attack was handled my the FBI, CIA, And by the administration. Miniter shows us how and why the dots weren't connected before 9-11.  And how 12 opportunities were missed to get Bin Laden and Stop his organization long before 9-11. Yes, the Book is critical of President Clinton and his administration; BUT I would ask everyone to look at that and make a judgment, but also to move on beyond the question of Clinton's legacy and LOOK TO learning from our past mistake's. Also there is a good Appendices hear explaining Al Quada's connection the Sadam and Iraqi Intelligence, which is now buttressed by the recent leak Pentagon memo that documents 35 meetings between The BASE and Iraqi Intelligence from 1993 to 2001. This book is a must read if you want to know the truth.e question of Clinton's legacy and LOOK TO learning from our past mistake's. Also there is a good Appendices hear explaining Al Quada's connection the Sadam and Iraqi Intelligence, which is now buttressed by the recent leak Pentagon memo that documents 35 meetings between The BASE and Iraqi Intelligence from 1993 to 2001. This book is a must read if you want to know the truth.	2003-12-11
US	52502095	R2HF52TNK0OYO8	9998203902	370408013	Hal Lindsey's Prophetic Jigsaw: Five Predictions That Failed (Biblical Perspectives, No 3)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Blind leading the blind.	I would say ansd write that everyone read the BOOK The Late Great Palate Earth, and ignore jigsaw and other books like it. In the Late Great Palate Earth you will see that Hal Lindsey claims noting, but that he is studying Scripture; He makes NO claims of being a prophet, and makes NO prophecys in the BOOK.  What he does do is look at the Bible predictions for the last days and tries to see how they fit in with current events. He makes a compelling case that we are in the last days, read it for yourselves. The Book Was written in the 1960s and hear he warned us about the Islamic Explosion in it. He shows how the Prophecies of Israel's return, from all over the world, to there land (1948), is a key sign to the end times; He also shows how they would come back into Israel first, and get Jerusalem back at a later time (1967). Hal shows how the Bible predicts how there will be four major spears of influence in the world in the end times; Including a united Europe (Europe is uniting and its Happening in front of our own eyes); an Arab and Muslims confederation (Iran, Jordan, Libya, etc.,) with the same goal of defeating Israel; The Russians and her allies in the North (Most of the -stain countries, all part or all Muslim country's) and an Asian Power base (China, India). All of this is lining up right in front of our own eyes, are you going believe your own eyes or mockers like Samuele Bacchiocchi; Read if for yourselves and make up your own mind. Just remember As the Apostle Peter wrote in 2 Peter Chapter 3 remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles.  First of all you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own passions and saying, &quot;Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.&quot; case closed.	2003-12-06
US	52502095	R1JMN2HYERGVBX	031027771X	530273080	The Late Great Planet Earth	Books	5	18	36	N	Y	A Classic on Biblical Prophecy.	This is the classic Bible prophecy book of all time, I first read it in the early 70s and it moved me to seek out God. Hal Lindsey in the Late Great Planet Earth shows us how the Bible predicts many many things about the end times. For One Hal shows us that four great spears of Power will be on the scene in the end time. A united Europe (This is happening now, right in front of our eyes, remember this book was written in the 60s); Russia and her Allis (remember Russia is still a heavily armed nation-Russia has also, made a peace treaty with Iran guaranteeing Iran safety from attack my Israel or the USA); The Muslims nations of the middle east, Africa etc.,: and the Asian Power (which can field an army of 200,000,000. China and India can easily field an army of such size). Hal also shows us how the Bible predicted the re-gathering of Israel in the ends times (EZK 36), and how they would come into Israel first (1948) and get Jerusalem later (1967) and how this is a key to the start of the last days. Hal also talks about how the Bible predicts how two intriguing figures will rise up at the end time, the anti Christ and the False Prophet. One will be over the United European Powers and the Other will be in Israel. They will make a treaty with each other and bring in a peace for a short time (Hal also shows how this leads to war and the return of Christ). Folks if you see it happen Believe in Gods Word. Lets face it if it was 100 years ago, who would have ever thought that the Jews would be back in Israel? Who would have thought that Europe would be uniting under one from of Government? Who would have thought Russia would be aligning with Iran? Its all happening right in front of our eyes. We all need to Wake up!!!	2003-12-05
US	52502095	R1ZCHLO4BI2HVZ	1931628270	838289446	Faith for Earth's Final Hour	Books	5	71	78	N	N	A great Book About Real Faith.	There are so many false bible teachers out in the world today preaching that if you have faith you will be rich and healthy all the time. Its so far from the truth the Bible teaches us. Their God is a great jack in a box in the sky who provides everything they want or desire (they are the ones wearing 1000s suits, Rolex watches and driving expensive cars with the money that poor people send em). Its a false teaching and is causing many to lose faith. It is great to see a Bible teacher Like Hal Lindsey come forth with a Bible based BOOK on faith. A real faith that can get us through all the trials that we face or will face. A faith that is also there in the good times as well. lets face it folk's; Times are perilous; AIDS, colds that kill like SCARS, Muslim terrorists trying to get Nukes, Biological and chemical weapons, Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Increasing and worsening weather patterns, earthquakes, and other natural phenomena getting worse, should convince all of us that we are in perilous times; And MUCH FAITH IS NEEDED. Hal's BOOK Faith For Earth's Final Hour will help you and I to practice faith each day (faithing) a real faith. Not only should you get a copy and read it, you should read it many times. It is also a great gift for any and everyone you love.	2003-12-04
US	52502095	R36S5ET4CKHZF6	0375508791	832739283	Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11	Books	5	52	56	N	Y	A MUST Read!!!!	I have been reading many books on Bin Laden, Al Quada, Muslim extremist and also on the above in relation to law enforcement (CIA, FBI, INS, NSA, etc.), Our Presidential Administrations and to Congress (law makers) as it all relates to 9-11. Those books include Catastrophe by Chris Ruddy and Carl Linbacher, Jr., Breakdown by Bill Gurtz, The Sword Of the prophet by Serge Trifkovic, American Jihad by Steve Emerson, among others; and I must say this book; Why America Slept by Gerald Posner, is one of the best. It is completely documented and thoroughly sourced. It centers on the History of major terrorists attacks on the USA, and our allies in relation to the response of our intelligence agency's, State department, and the all our presidential Administration's dating from the Carter years (1976-80) to Now (2003). In Why America Slept by Gerald Posner, He details both the Political and Law enforcement's responses to Islamic based terrorism and what mistakes were made all along the way. the book does not make wild charges but details the mistakes so that we can learn from them.  This book documents all of Al Quada's attacks on the US and American citizens all over the world; Documents the History of this declared war on US; and How each attack was handled my the FBI, CIA, INS And by the administrations. He shows how weak responses to terrorism emboldened the terrorists and He also documents some of the missed opportunities to get Bin Laden and Stop his organization long before 9-11. There is also a great chapter on the capture and interrogation of Abu Zubaydah which is must reading. Yes, the Book is critical; but not in any political way, there is no ax to grind hear, against any one individual or administration, its sober and reflective and is a must read for anyone and everyone who wants to know how 9-11 happened.	2003-11-13
US	52502095	R22FVIXFQ40Q5E	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	5	22	32	N	N	a must read for anyone who loves the Constitution	Limbaugh sets out with the premise that PC Liberals are persecuting (discriminating against, etc.), Christians in the USA; He sites example after example to prove his case. I find his premise and conclusion compelling. This book is well documented and could of been 3 times longer. Limbaugh throughley proves his case. Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christianity is a must read for anyone who loves the Constitution, the USA and OUR freedoms.	2003-11-06
US	52502095	R216YZ8SMXB6W7	0895264056	369414505	Boy Clinton: The Political Biography	Books	4	5	12	N	N	A Great read for political Wonks like me!!!	While this book is a Political History it is also a psychohistory. Tyrrell tries to delve deep into President Clinton's Psyche and tell us what makes him tick. The Book Covers from Clinton's Birth through his first term and ends with the prediction he would not get re elected to a second term (WRONG), Tyrrell did not know about all the Illegal money raised from Asia that Clinton's campaign used to beef up his popularity before 96 (for More on that subject read Year Of The Rat by Edward Timperlake and William C. Triplett II). Anyway, the book besides being a chronicle of Clinton's political beliefs and where they came from, it also chronicles many crimes and misdemeanors that Bill gets away with. Its a remarkable story. This book is a must read for us political wonks and also cold be a good reference source for Historians in the feature. Find out where the bodies are buried sort of speak.	2003-10-26
US	52502095	R1G7S6PZLZD85U	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	5	20	32	N	N	A MUST READ!!!	Limbaugh sets out with the premise that PC Liberals are persecuting (discriminating against, etc.), Christians in the USA; He sites example after example to prove his case. I find his premise and conclusion compelling. This book is well documented and could of been 3 times longer. Limbaugh throughley proves his case. Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christianity is a must read for anyone who loves the Constitution, the USA and OUR freedoms.	2003-10-17
US	52502095	R355DV22WZ8Y85	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	5	13	36	N	Y	The Thomas Paine of the 21st century	I just finished reading Michael Savage's Book, the Savage Nation and it is absolutely one of the most entertaining, political books, I have ever read. I could not put it down, and I am going to read and re read it again and again. If you have ever heard his radio program, or seen his short lived MSNBC show, He writes just like he speaks; which makes this book Savage Nation extremely funny and entertaining. BUT this book is much more than just entertainment; It has so much common sense in it, I would say that savage is the Thomas Paine of the 21st century. This book is a must read for anyone who cares about keeping America GREAT. In fact I would suggest you buy many copies and give them out as gifts, especially to anyone entering our once great university system.	2003-10-07
US	52502095	R1SBCGVGBL2CVA	1928653111	581549793	The Sword of the Prophet: Islam; History, Theology, Impact on the World	Books	5	38	44	N	Y	A MUST READ BOOK!	In light of 9-11 everyone should try and get educated on the Muslim extremists and why they attacked US the USA. In Serge Trifkovic's Book The Sword of The Prophet he does the best single job of explaining why we face this war of terrorism now. He traces the extremist roots all the way back to the start of the Muslim religion in a detailed, studious yet concise way. He also offers answers on what we should do about it. If you are going to read one book on Muslim extremists views this is the one.	2003-05-20
US	52502095	R29R92A0TCUTND	1891668064	470120205	The Genesis Factor: The Amazing Mysteries of the Bible Codes	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	If you're going to read 1 book on the Bible code this is it!	To say this is just a book on the Bible code would be doing this work an injustice. It is more, much more. It is one; an exposition on the Bible code (ELS). two; an exposition on Scripture. And three; also an exposition on the Bible Numerical Value System. So we can say this book has three witnesses to back it up. One; All the Bible code found in this book checks out, You can get Bible Code software, and do it yourself. Two; all that Yacov Rambsel finds in the code is in perfect harmony with both the Scripture and 3; the Numerical system. Its all a perfect fit. Rambsel asked the most important questions about our salvation, and about the past, present and feature. He seeks and finds the answers to life's most important questions. The Factor starts off good and goes to great; chapters four, five, six and seven are phenomenal. Their in order named; THE NAME OF THE MESSIAH; THE CROWNING PROPHECY'S OF THE BIBLE; THE RETURN OF THE MESSIAH AND THE SEVENTH DAY. I would highly suggest this book to Christian and non Christian alike. And I would say to everyone to study the above mentioned chapters, thoroughly. For non Christians I would suggest you start with Page 17 (skip the forward and intro). This book may very well introduce you to the MESSIAH.	2003-04-09
US	52502095	RYAYKUO1E6J37	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	5	19	N	N	A Must Read Book!!!	Left Behind is a very entertaining and Interesting story; That is combined with teaching Bible Prophecy 101 along with presenting the Gospel Message in an easy to understand and coherent manor. This is a good book for all Christians who may be interested in what the Bible Prophecy's portend for the feature (and may cause an interests in the prophecy's to those who had no prior interests) . Also it will cause one to want to become more evangelic in spreading the gospel. And lastly It is also a good book for non believers as a warning, and as a way to a second chance. It points the way to the simple and wonderful message of Salvation, though faith in Christ, and in HIS substitutionary death for all of us.	2003-04-03
US	52502095	R26DRZ5GVL0U1B	0670032107	113215664	Bible Code II: The Countdown	Books	4	12	19	N	N	Dorsin used unscientific methods!!!!!	I received this book yesterday and could not pout it down, I finished it today. I love these kind of things, secret codes in the Bible. Prophecy of feature events, Its all very fascinating, and it may very well be true. I will reserve judgment on weather its true or not, Maybe I will wait to see if the prediction of a Small Pox attack in 2005 in Israel takes place; It even has the number of how many will die 14,700. But I must admit, I am leaning toward accepting the code as truth. The correlation between what past events, that have been predicted in the Code, which have come true and the likely reality of the feature predictions, to come true, are very convincing. If all that happened, I would be totally convinced there is a code.<br /><br />Where I completely disagree with Drosnin is in is conclusion that the Bible Code came from an alien, I am with DR Rips, if it does exists its from God. Dorsnin is asking a lot from an advance human like alien, to know all of time, that's all knowing. Something God can only have. I think Dorsnin is running from God and he is not asking all the right Questions. He should ask how to obtain salvation He should ask about the Anti Christ, the ten nation confederacy at the end times. He should also learn the Prophecy's that are in the plain text of the Bible better, many of them agree with what he is finding about the end of days.<br /><br />But having said all that I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I hope Drosnin meets the code Maker and accepts him as Lord and savior, He will be coming back soon if the code is correct.<br /><br />more<br /><br />I have now done farther study of Bible codes and Have found out that dorsin used unscientific methods in his book, not much would hold up to scientific or statistical study hear. So I would recommend instead you read R. Edwin Sherman's Book Bible code bombshell instead.	2003-03-26
US	52502095	R3MB1SP2WB4Z4Z	0310240646	700688227	The Unholy Deception: The Nephilim Return (Nephilim Series Vol. 2)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	No placidity hear, get ready for a great ride.	The Unholy Deception is the sequel to L.A. Marzulli's fabulous book Nephilim and both books are wonderful. The First book starts with a lot of background and builds up the excitement, and the second is just one heck of a roller coaster ride from start to finish. I would recommend anyone and everyone who is interested in the UFOs, ETs, etc., read these Novels. While they are fiction they are based on what very well may be fact; at least fact in that he has hit the nail on the head as to who and what UFOs and there occupants are. Weather you agree or disagree with his conclusions, you will be entertained; I could not put it down and I can't wait for part 3. There is no placidity hear, get ready for a great ride.	2003-01-25
US	52502095	R3P6BD0JX7PWL1	1582615918	905246524	Anaheim Angels: World Series Champions (includes CD-ROM)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Excellent!!...	Anaheim Angels World Series Champions is a fantastic book, It contains High lights and stories from all season long, the exciting playoff against the Yankees and Twins; and the fantastic world series. Its also filled with Great photos and a CD-ROM filled with photo galleries, stats, rosters, wallpapers and web links and cool stuff. This is a perfect keepsake for the 2002 season is a must get for any and every Angles fan; and any baseball fan; and would make a great gift.	2002-12-05
US	52502095	R10O1DTIK4BW6D	1931628157	59395755	The Everlasting Hatred: The Roots of Jihad	Books	5	62	79	N	N	This book Explains where the hate comes from.	In order to Understand the Hitler like hate many Muslims hold for the Israelis; we must understand there religion, there beliefs. How Lindsey does a great Job of tracing this \\"Everlasting Hatred\\" from Jacob and Essau (4000 years ago) to modern times. You cannot understand this hate unless you understand that the fact that Israel's existence, proves the Muslims religion to be incorrect and proves Mohammed to be a false Prophet. The Muslim's have only two choices, One; at all coast they must destroy Israel; or two; they can change there beliefs. Which do you think they will chose? And where will that choice Lead the world too? Read this book and You will get a better understanding of this insane hate and where it comes from. Lindsey also does a great job of tracing the history of the middle east (in a concise Way) and presents an interesting view of the Palestinians claims. This is a must read, for anyone who want's to understand the events that are unfolding beyond our very own eyes.	2002-12-01
US	52502095	R1Y38TP6DR2VKT	0895261480	815056968	Breakdown: How America's Intelligence Failures Led to September 11	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Read at your own risk.	You have to read Breakdown by Bill Gertz because when you see his documented facts of all the dot's our intelligence failed to connect, when you see how politically correct bureaucracy tied the hands of hard working agents and when you see how two of our presidential administration's (Carter and Clinton), as well as some key congressmen and senators, handcuffed and weakened our intelligence apparatus' your blood pressure may go way the heck up. This book is a must read for all of us, so we can understand what went wrong. It is also important so that we can fix the problems. We all need to get educated after 9-11 and this book Breakdown is a good start.	2002-11-10
US	52502095	R3LO8BE1A6ZPA0	0310220114	662371944	Nephilim: The Truth is Here (Nephilim Series Vol. 1)	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	Can't Put It Down	I have been a UFO buff since my youth (around 30 years ago) and entered a quest (then) for the truth with an open mind. I read magazines and 100s of books on the subject, before I came to my own conclusion. My conclusion is much the same as the one that is expressed in This Book Nephilim; and it is obvious to me that the Author L. A. Marzulli has read the same kind of source materiel and documentary evidence that I have over the years; he has done his homework as one of the reviewers already said. On top of that this is an excellent book, its very exciting, and is like a roller costar ride from cover to cover. It also sets out to teach and I think does a great job at that. I won't give away the plot but I will say that those who have made up thre minds that UFOs our are friendly space brothers need to read this book desperately also I would say any and everyone interested in the UFO and Alien Phenomena should read this book.	2002-10-17
US	52502095	R3SCF7I54JHIQP	0786869003	129957821	The Cell: Inside the 9/11 Plot, and Why the FBI and CIA Failed to Stop It	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Easy to read, coherent, informative, and balanced.	The Cell is an excellent explanation of the rise of the Islamists bin Ladin at all) and why our Law Enforcement could not stop 9-11; despite the clues and leads pre 9-11. Miller, Stone and Mitchell weave an easy to read, coherent, informative, balanced, can't put down tail of many terrorists actions and failed actions leading up to 9-11. This is a must read for all of us, we need to get informed about what we are facing.	2002-09-19
US	52502095	R1LWHTSQIFN6RW	0962451746	407650858	Omega Conspiracy: Satan's Last Assault on God's Kingdom	Books	5	44	49	N	Y	Very interesting	I.E.D. Thomas does a great job of tying together the Evidence for UFOs and Extra terrestrials with the Biblical evidence; And proposes a very interesting theory that the ancient Nephilim of Genises chapter 6 are our Modern ET'S. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in UFO's.	2002-09-17
US	52502095	R2Z7QJ10F3L22I	1931628157	59395755	The Everlasting Hatred: The Roots of Jihad	Books	5	108	129	N	N	A must read for understanding the Middle east problem.	In order to Understand the Hitler like hate many Muslims hold for the Israelis; we must understand there religion, there beliefs. How Lindsey does a great Job of tracing this \\"Everlasting Hatred\\" from Jacob and Essau (4000 years ago) to modern times. You cannot understand this hate unless you understand that the fact that Israel's existence, proves the Muslims religion to be incorrect and proves Mohammed to be a false Prophet. The Muslim's have only two choices, One; at all coast they must destroy Israel; or two; they can change there beliefs. Which do you think they will chose? And where will that choice Lead the world too?  Read this book and You will get a better understanding of this insane hate and where it comes from. Lindsey also does a great job of tracing the history of the middle east (in a concise Way) and presents an interesting view of the Palestinians claims. This is a must read, for anyone who want's to understand the events that are unfolding beyond our very own eyes.	2002-08-26
US	52502095	R39A37NP54MMPC	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	The real amerian diet.	Finally someone has dispelled the myth of the &quot;balanced diet.&quot; Since 1980 when our government has been pushing the Balanced Diet hard, we have become the fattest nation on earth; with epidemics in Diabetes, Obesity Heart problems and a marinade of other illnesses. For two century's Americans eat a diet high in protein and fat; and we built this great nation as a strong healthy race. Akins are others who are pointing us back to the right way to eat, are doing a great service to all of us in the USA. He is a hero.	2002-08-22
US	52502095	R3H461ORYWF5RV	0883686279	434732756	The Fingerprint of God: Recent Scientific Discoveries Reveal the Unmistakable Identity of the Creator (New Edition)	Books	5	38	47	N	N	Excellent Changle to the religion of Evolution.	Its funny, If you believe that a God (or intelligent force) created the universe you are called religious. Yet if you believe the Theory of evolution (micro evolution) you are called scientific, even though it is not proven or even a theory by the scientific definition (Read God and The Astronomers by Robert Jastrow an agnostic if you don't believe micro evolution is a religion). To be a theory it must be testable and it is not. I think Dr. Ross does a terrific job of showing how science can be reconciled with the Genesis account of creation. Without losing ones credentials as a scientists. Also this book though highly scientific is written in a way that is very easy to read and understandable for the non scientists out there like me. I would hope that everyone who has doubts and questions about the Genesis creation account would have an open mind and give &quot;The Fingerprint of God&quot; a read.	2002-08-15
US	52502095	R2DLZ3UPWM5E7V	0842300988	775448504	Are We Living in the END TIMES?	Books	5	10	17	N	Y	This Is A Must Read For Everyone!!!	Tim LaHaye and  Jerry B. Jenkins should be commended for this wonderful book on Bible Prophecy. It is a subject that has had much disrepute brought upon it (as well as Christianity in general, because of date setters, and people bending the scriptures to fit there pet theories. LaHaye and Jenkins instead give us an excellent, sober, and intelligent, line by line cometary of the Book of Revelations in an easy to read manor; they also being in scriptures from all the Great Bible Prophets (both Old Testament and New testament) as well as from the Lord Jesus Christ; and tie it all in to what is happening in the world around us. This Book is a must read for all Christians to promote Holly Living in an evil age and to spur evangelism; and IS A MUST READ FOR ALL NON CHRISTIANS AS WELL. I would challenge everyone to read this book. If you see the Prophecies happening as laid out in the HOLLY BIBLE then you can chose to Believe. What do you have to lose?	2002-08-13
US	52502095	R33R4DCJI2JW01	0842336443	775448504	Are We Living in the End Times?	Books	5	13	22	N	Y	A MUST READ BOOK	Tim LaHaye and  Jerry B. Jenkins should be commended for this wonderful book on Bible Prophecy. It is a subject that has had much disrepute brought upon (as well as Christianity) in general, because of date setters, and people bending the scriptures to fit there pat theories. LaHaye and Jenkins instead give us an excellent, sober, and intelligent, line by line cometary of the Book of Revelations in an easy to read manor; they also being in scriptures from all the Great Bible Prophets (both Old Testament and New testament) as well as from the Lord Jesus Christ. This Book is a must read for all Christians to promote Holly Living in an evil age and to spur evangelism and IS A MUST READ FOR ALL NON CHRISTIANS AS WELL. I would challenge everyone to read this book. If you see the Prophecies happening as laid out in the HOLLY BIBLE then you can chose to Believe. What do you have to lose?	2002-08-13
US	52502095	R28U3FBWNAMBYJ	0890814406	967410988	There's a New World Coming: An In-Depth Analysis of the Book of Revelation	Books	5	53	62	N	N	Excellent!	There's A New World Coming Is an excellent Line by Line explanation and cometary of the Book of Revelation. It is a great book to help anyone who want's to understand the book of The Revelation of Jesus Christ Better. Remember that there is a blessing in this Book which states that anyone who continues to read the Book Of the revelation Of Jesus Christ will continue to receive Blessings. And it is important I feel to also read some commentaries on it as well as seeking the Holy Spirit to bring us a better understanding of the book. Hal does a nice job of tying in many of the Old and New Testaments Prophecies, with Revelations, so we get a cleaner picture of what the text means. Hal also try's to extrapolate how these prophecies may come true today, and what some of the more cryptic verses may mean.  I would urge everyone to read this book, ill regardless of what there religious beliefs are, and look at the world around us. See how the world powers are lining up as predicted (Europe forming into a cohesive unit, Russia lining up with the Muslim Nations, China with an army of 200,000,000); see how the condition of man is exactly as described of man at the end of this age (Lovers of pleasure, haters of God...); Seems like the Apostle John (And all the Bible Prophet's) Had it right over 2000 years ago. Its time to get right with God; And its easy to get right eith GOD; Change you mind (repent self righteousness) and admit your sin, look to Jesus and what he did at the crucifixion for us (his death was for all our sins) ask him into your life and accept Him as your GOD, Lord and Savior.	2002-08-07
US	52502095	R3EK0M6AQQRUZQ	1896522742	507355164	From Grand Funk to Grace: Authorized Biography of Mark Farner	Books	5	11	17	N	Y	A good History of Mark Farner and very honest.	I just finished From Grace To Grand Funk and I have a few thoughts. One is that on the plus side the book is filled with info about Mark Farner's life, Mark's opinions, Mark's friend's glowing admiration for him-which is a good sign, Mark's family life, and hey some very good history and antidotes included of the Grand Funk Railroad. Another plus is it also has some good info in the back of the book about concert dates and recordings. On the negative side book is not well written in places; especially the first 1/3 of the book (the pre GFR days) which is kind choppy, after that it gets much better. The GFR days from 69-76 for instance are written very well and flow very well and there are some funny little stories about life on the road (lot's of amusing anecdotes). But then it turns to 77 to the present and the book takes on a bit of a negative tone (which is being honest). Also on the negative side, I found reading about Mark's courtship and marriage to a teenager very uncomfortable (but again its honest). But, history is history. The Book talks about Mark's involvement in \\"Holiness Christianity\\" and how Mark has swung to a position of \\"Christian\\" universal salvation. He sates that all devout believers are saved by Christ weather there Muslim, Jewish, Buddhists, etc., The book is told from Mark perspective, which at times makes it a fluff piece basically; praising Mark from cover to cover, BUT I still think its a must have for GFR fans. At least it will give you Mark's thinking about issues. And it is a very good history of Mark's life.	2002-07-22
US	52502095	R3PATU6M34R8UB	0946719322	512838446	No More Mr Nice Guy: The Inside Story of the Alice Cooper Group	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Excellent!	This is an excellent book by Michael Bruce (Alice Cooper Band Original Guitarists) and Billy James (Ant Bee) which follows the Bands History from Arizona to Los Angeles To Michigan to Superstardom. It is well written and tells the story in an engaging way with much humor and candor. This is a MUST HAVE for any Alice Cooper fan and really any Rock Fan.	2002-07-18
US	52502095	R1YU45Q01EEE60	1896522742	507355164	From Grand Funk to Grace: Authorized Biography of Mark Farner	Books	4	8	14	N	Y	a Must Have for Farner GFR Fans.	This book covers Mark Farner's whole life and is an excellent read for any fan of Mark and Grand Funk Railroad. We get glimpses of his parents, family life childhood, how he got into music, early bands he was in (per 1969) his GFR days (69-76,80-82, 96-99), his first solo work (76-80) Christian rock days (83-95) the reunion with GFR (96-98) and what has happened since all the way up to the break of this new century. The very best section of this book is about The GFR days from 69-76. They are written very well and flow very well and there are some funny little stories about life on the road. You will love all those stories.	2002-07-18
US	52502095	R32TPKA3W46BGX	0802136753	185546446	Selections from the Book of Psalms: Authorized King James Version (Pocket Canons)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Nice	A very nice size booklet which you can carry with you anywhere; and a very good selection of the Psalms. Also I really like Bono's introduction, I kind of liken him to a modern day St. Paul. The Psalms are so important in reminded us to seek God and HIS will in days of trouble, like today; and really at all times. I think giving these as gifts to friends and family would be a good way to get people to get interested in the Bible.	2002-05-31
US	52502095	RP0ATALXENH2Q	0310918634	704726907	NIV Audio Bible Dramatized CD	Books	5	65	66	N	Y	Excellent!!!	This is what I have been waiting for, the Bible on CD, in a great small sized CD case, in a good version-like the NIV. 64 CDs in all, organized well, in a CD holder that is only like 12\\" long, by 8\\" across, by 2 1/2\\" wide. I have had the Bible on tape for a long time, but they wear out, so I am glad to get the Bible on CD (also these CDs have a lifetime guarantee). Its perfect for keeping on the desk, by the bed, or with you on the go. It can easily fit in a back pack and is perfect for taking along in the car. The CDs sound great. And Amazon has a nice price on the set (Not much more then getting the NIV Bible in print, in leather). If your looking for a good version of the Bible on CD, and in a nice small size CD holder, this is it.	2002-04-08
US	52502095	R12GMC63OCN8XF	0946719411	46847831	U2: The Complete Encyclopedia	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Only for us U2 fanatics.	This is really cool, a concise encyclopedia of U2. I have only read some of it and flipped though it so far, but it look's like nothing is left out. Articles on every Album, Song, Important concerts, important people around the band, and on and on. This is not for the casual fan but for US U2 fanatics.	2002-04-08
US	52502095	R1VQF16A7BHM5E	088419793X	491848160	Walk On: The Spiritual Journey of U2	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Very Nice Histroy of U2s Spiritual Music.	I have been a U2 fan since around 81 and I noticed the Biblical references and concepts floating around in there songs right away. I though, wow finally a secular group writing some spiritual songs. I listened to a lot of Christian Contemporary Music back in those days, and I felt it was geared for the believer, and was not reaching others. But, U2 was and is cool and they were saying the spiritual things in a cool way, much like the Apostle Paul did back in the Acts.... He would learn how to deliver the gospel message in the language and symbols of each people he was dealing with. I think U2 and Bono have done more to spread the Gospel then all the \\"Christian\\" artists combined. U2 is delivering the positive message in our vernacular of Today. Steve Stockman does a nice job covering the history of U2's uses of spiritual references in there songs. The book is well written and riveting. He also outlines there personal spiritual journeys, How and where U2 (3 members) found God, why and how they change the act but still maintained the message, and how they are still relevant today. U2 is probably the most impotent massage band in rock history and its great to have a book like this to delve into there thinking. This is a must read for anyone interested in U2's spiritual songs.	2002-04-02
US	52502095	R15PSE2WU2H491	0757991769	737183801	Andrea Bocelli: Cieli Di Toscana	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Very Very Nice	First off the there are some beautiful pictures as part of the Book, the cover shot and 3 full page shots in the book as well as some smaller shots. The Book has a section for lyrics only first which is great, its much easier to read the lyrics hear then it is in the liner notes of the CD, where there too small. Following the lyric section is the chord and note section (with lyrics as well) so we can play along as well as sing along. The bonus track lyrics and music on the DVD (and also included on some of the import versions of the CD) Tornera La Neve is included as well.	2002-03-18
US	52502095	R17PTPMFNKLTMY	8882915948	201231721	Andrea Bocelli - Arie Sacre: (Sacred Arias) Arie e canti religiosi	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Nice	The Music book has what is supposed to have all the songs with lyrics and Notes and chords, (It does not have separate lyrics though). Its wonderful to be able to sing along to these beautiful and scared songs, song as fantastically by Andrea. It also has a great cover photo, two great full page photos and a great 2 page photo in a scared setting.	2002-03-18
US	52502095	R3HUISEF5JT5TY	0966053125	674619433	Tales of the American Band: Grand Funk Railroad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fun Book	This is one heck of the fun book. It contains over 150 stories from over 150 fans (edited by Sunny Quinn) about there love for the Grand Funk Railroad and experiences with GFRs music or GFR themselves. At times Tales of an American Band is funny, Moving, Informative, and at times inspiring. It also contains Sunny's storied from hear experience, being on the road with GFR (she is Don Brewer's Wife, also a Radio DJ, Teacher and Author) which are very cool. The Book is hard to put down; is a limited edition (Only 500 printed); and Its a must read for any Grand Funk Railroad Fanatic, Like me.	2002-03-04
US	52502095	R1XN72VBB4G5YW	888291304X	951815031	Andrea Bocelli / Sogno	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fine music book of a beautiful CD.	This Songo Music book serves its purpose well. It has all the Italian and English translations of the lyrics, and the music which can be played on piano from this Beautiful CD. So if you want the lyrics in a much easier to read format then in the liner notes of the CD so you can sing along then this is a must buy. And if you want to play along on Piano this is a must buy as well. The Prayer, Canto Della Terra and Songo are just beautiful songs and its a pleasure to be able to sing along.	2002-02-27
US	52502095	R3BCJK2LDHHMKG	8872076374	193463786	Andrea Bocelli / Romanza	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Wonderful to have the lyrics from this great album.	Its Wonderful to have the lyrics from this great album. If you want the lyrics in a much easier to read formant then the liner notes of the CD then this is the book for you. IT CONTIANS ALL THE GREAT SONGS; Con Te Partiro, Caruso, E Chiove, Il Mare Calmo Della Sera, La Luna Ghe Non C'e, Le Tue Parole, Macchine DaGuerra, Miserere, Per Amore, Rapsodia, Romanza, Vivere, Vivo Per Lei, Voglio Restare Cosi.  Also it contians the bounes track which is on some of the imports, FUNICULI, FUNICULA.' Also you an play along on Paino as well.	2002-02-27
US	52502095	R6IWJBKM1PGJW	0671021257	519262866	Star Trek: Preserver	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Real life inters the book	Preserver is a nice finish to the Mirror Universe Trilogy, it ties up all the lose ends and leaves a lot that can be done in feature books, It also has some surprising twists; A new enemy For the federation? A new ally in the mirror Captain Kirk? You can see that the real life death of Shatner's wife effected the plot in this book and you know he was expressing the feelings of his lose tough captain Kirk. That gives the book an emotional side it might not have oterwise had. The way Shatner does it, Lets us into his thoughts, is very tastefuly done. I Also like the way Shatner ties in Planets and events from past episodes of the original TV show intro his Star Trek Books. Preserver (and The Whole Mirror Universe Trilogy) is a good read for any Star Trek fan.	2002-02-13
US	52502095	R32G2JUAA09T6U	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Lets start the discussion	This book is a great starting point for discussion's on many issues; Immigration, Demographics, Law and Justice, Education, Culture, Religion, Children and how they are viewed in society, Only the close minded will not give it a read, there afraid they may find his arguments sound and true. You must read this book I dear you. Then lets start the discussion.	2002-02-09
US	52502095	R1BGB5M4ZY70NQ	0312253095	71396839	Andrea Bocelli: A Celebration	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Very well done	This is a beautiful book, well written and lavishly filled with wonderful pictures of Andrea and His family, surroundings and special events. This book gives a nice short history of Bocelli's life and a detailed look at his musical career, it is very much a good biography and a good history of Bocelli, it is a good sister book to Andreas auto Biography &quot;The Music Of Silence&quot; which is really detailed about Andrea youth up to his young adulthood and gives his thought's about all the important events of his life, but is not detailed about his career. Felix's book Besides covering HIS Career up To 99 in Great detail she also gives us a nice understanding about those who influenced Andrea musically (the greats of Opera) and about Opera itself. I also agree with the last reviewer it is a nice coffie table book due to the size and the beatiful pictures. Together the books (Andrea Bocelli : A Celebration by Antonia Felix  and The Slience of Music : Andrea Bocelli) give a great picture of ANDREA in so many ways, and are a must for every Bocelli fan.	2002-01-31
US	52502095	R36RDAP5CFQUJ0	0066212863	573094431	The Music of Silence: A Memoir	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	A wonderful engaging autobiography	A wonderful engaging autobiography, I could not put it down. This is a truly gifted man, one who is able to show us his thinking and emotions though his beautiful singing and now in his writing. He reveals to us (the reader) his mental processes of how a young blind boy became a man. His fears, hopes and aspiration are all hear. His love of family and friends (Typically Italian) are touching. His Love for his Homeland (Tuscany). His Blindness, His Love of Music, His Education, His Friendships, His Search for a wife and his experience of having a child and his career and how it all started are all hear. Wonderfully written and beautifully translated. A Must reader the Bocelli fan.	2002-01-26
US	52502095	RH8SN9MJV5F5G	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	a must read for news-hounds	I just finished the book Bias by Bernard Goldberg its an easy read, pretty short its general premise of left Bias in the news media is really not a revelation for anyone who paid attention to the news the last 20 years. But it is a definitely a worthwhile read; although it confirms what most of us knew about that Bias in the news media; it also brings up some IMPORTANT things many of us did not about AIDS, HOMELESS, RACE and Women's issues and the way the news media handled and handle these important issues. Goldberg documents just how the news is slanted and why. Its a must read for news-hounds like myself.	2002-01-19
US	52502095	RC5YZPLOIFCP2	1896522742	507355164	From Grand Funk to Grace: Authorized Biography of Mark Farner	Books	1	3	18	N	Y	Poorly Written.	Most poorly written book I have read since the second grade. Filled with Fluff. Maybe its best not to know to much about former rock stars.	2002-01-16
US	52502095	R2MU363P2PN1G	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	21	29	N	Y	5 stars for truth 4 for writing style.	I just finished the book Bias by Bernard Goldberg its an easy read, pretty short its general premise of left Bias in the news media is really not a revelation for anyone who paid attention to the news the last 20 years. But it is a definitely a worthwhile read; although it confirms what most of us knew about that Bias in the news media; it also brings up some IMPORTANT things that many of us did not about Such as AIDS, The HOMELESS, RACE issues and Women's issues and the way the news media handled and handle these important issues. Goldberg documents just how the news is slanted and why. Its a must read.	2001-12-19
US	52502095	R3MVEHPA1LE4XS	0946719268	840429568	An American Band: The Story of Grand Funk Railroad	Books	5	32	35	N	Y	An American Band is the most complete History of GFR.	An American Band, The Story of Grand Funk Railroad is a wonderful new book by Billy James that covers the History of the American Band Grand Funk Railroad (1969-1999).<br />An  American Band covers GFRs Meteoric rise to Rock N roll Superstardom; there  fall (due to the break up with there manager and the ensuing lawsuits) and  there rebirth and reunions. The Book Goes through an album by album and  tour by tour synopsis. It also covers Mark Farner's, Don Brewer's and Mel  Shcacher's personal lives and solo careers. An American Band covers the  origins of GFR (Bossman, ? and the Mysterians, Pack and Jazz master Days),  The critical disdain and loyal fan support, The break Ups, The 80s reunion  and the current reunion (96-98). It also covers GFR on the Internet and has  a list of all the fan based sites.<br />Grand Funk Railroad formed in 1968 and  released there first album, &quot;On Time,&quot; in 1969.  It was a first  in a series of huge selling records (&quot;On Time&quot;, &quot;Grand  Funk&quot;, &quot;Closer To Home&quot;, &quot;Live,&quot;  &quot;Survival,&quot; &quot;E Pluribus Funk,&quot; &quot;Mark, Don and  Mel,&quot; &quot;Phoenix,&quot; &quot;We're An American Band,&quot;  &quot;Shinin' On,&quot; and &quot;All The Girls in the world Beware&quot;).  GFR was an underground FM type band and received little airplay and nothing  but negative media attention (if not outright hostility). Even with all  that, Grand Funk Railroad with the support of a huge and loyal fan base,  was the largest selling Rock group in the 1970s (1970-79); they sold  twenty-five million albums in the United States and another 20 million more  worldwide. They were the first band to sell 12 straight Gold Albums and 10  straight Platinum albums. They charted many times (With a switch to a more  polished sound in 72 and the addition of a permeant keyboard player Craig  Frost) with two songs reaching #1, &quot;The Loco-Motion&quot; and  &quot;We're An American; with also &quot;Bad Time&quot; and &quot;Some Kind  Of Wonderful&quot; reaching the top 5.  In 1975, GFR won the BMI award for  having the most played song on the radio, which was &quot;Bad Time&quot;.  There were thrown off the Led Zeppelin tour in 69, cause Zeppelins manager  could not stand the fact the GFR was the crowd pleaser (GFR blew the mighty  Zep off the stage). They went on to tour on there own. They sold out Shea  Stadium faster than the Beetles, and sold out in the US and in their  worldwide tours breaking records where ever they went. All this is covered  in An American band in detail and Billy makes great use of critics reviews  (both good and bad) and also the reactions of Mark, Don and Mel, to show  what they thought about all that was happening around them. Billy also goes  on to detail GFRs later and solo albums &quot;Caught in the Act,&quot;  &quot;Born To Die,&quot; &quot;Good Singin Good Playin,&quot;  &quot;Flint&quot; (Don Mel and Craig's band), and Mark Farner's solo albums  &quot;Mark Farner,&quot; No Frills,&quot; &quot;Just Another  Injustice,&quot; &quot;Wake Up,&quot;  &quot;Some Kind Of Wonderful.&quot;  And GFR's New efforts &quot;Bosnia,&quot; A double Live CD with proceeds  going to the Bosnia war orphans and refugee relief fund, and &quot;Thirty  Years Of funk-1969-99,&quot; a 3 CD set Anthology covering the band from  the pack days to three brand new songs.<br />GFR has always been the  &quot;People's Band.&quot;  If they had something to say they did it, Mark  Farner was always very political and it came out in his songs. His Anti  Vietnam sediments were shown in songs suck as &quot;Closer To Home,&quot;  &amp;  &quot;People Lets Stop The War;&quot; His worry about the  environment issues was shown in songs such as &quot;Save The Land,&quot;  &amp; &quot;Ban The Man.&quot; Overpopulation and spiritual searching in  songs such as &quot;So You Wont have to die,&quot; &amp; &quot;Comfort  Me.&quot; Mark who was always a Christian became a devout follower ofJesus  in the 80s and Mark's God Rock albums are covered in Billy's Book as well.  Back in the early 1970s, GFR took a stand against hard drugs by doing  promotional ads urging their generation not to destroy their lives with  drugs.  This was not a popular thing to do, at that time, but they showed  the caring necessary not to worry about record sales and do what was right.  They also helped establish the Phoenix House, which started in New York  City. Phoenix House worked mostly with teens who were drug dependent.  Mark, Don, and Mel named an album after the Phoenix House,  &quot;Phoenix,&quot; in its honor and played concerts for free to raise  money for that institution. They also did advertisements for the Red Cross  to get young people to Give Blood. Billy does a great job showing all sides  of the band.<br />An American Band is the most documented and complete History  that can be found on the great American Band, Grand Funk Railroad. Billy  does a great job showing there whole history the good with the bad, the  book is excellent and a must have for every GFR Fan. Billy also documents  how the band was ripped of by the Manager Terry knight, and for this  section alone, every young inspiring musician sound read this book.  Its on  SAF publishing and its ISBN is 0 946719 26 8<br />Rick CappettoJesus  in the 80s and Mark's God Rock albums are covered in Billy's Book as well.  Back in the early 1970s, GFR took a stand against hard drugs by doing  promotional ads urging their generation not to destroy their lives with  drugs.  This was not a popular thing to do, at that time, but they showed  the caring necessary not to worry about record sales and do what was right.  They also helped establish the Phoenix House, which started in New York  City. Phoenix House worked mostly with teens who were drug dependent.  Mark, Don, and Mel named an album after the Phoenix House,  &quot;Phoenix,&quot; in its honor and played concerts for free to raise  money for that institution. They also did advertisements for the Red Cross  to get young people to Give Blood. Billy does a great job showing all sides  of the band.<br />An American Band is the most documented and complete History  that can be found on the great American Band, Grand Funk Railroad. Billy  does a great job showing there whole history the good with the bad, the  book is excellent and a must have for every GFR Fan. Billy also documents  how the band was ripped of by the Manager Terry knight, and for this  section alone, every young inspiring musician sound read this book.  Its on  SAF publishing and its ISBN is 0 946719 26 8<br />Rick Cappetto	1999-08-09
