US	52515394	R22F0V4RC03JLB	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dynamic Stability	One cannot judge a book like this on a single level.  There are both writing style and treatment of the subject matter to consider in works of this sort.  In this case, the two are interwoven in such a way that cannot be dissected.  Professor Diamond's writing style in this book is perhaps a bit too simple-minded, but it is perfectly tuned to the material, which is equally simple in its approach.  I should preface this review by saying that the book came well-recommended via a book review in Science Magazine.  Though this is the first work I have read by Diamond, I got into the book expecting it to be a scholarly work by someone pre-emminent in the field of human geography.    The overall concept is a good one, and one that I was happy to see in print.  We need to know that societies are not cast in concrete, nor is the protection to individuals that they seem to offer.  A scientific discussion of what factors limit a society's envelope in history is certainly valuable to we humans who benefit from a society's persistence.    That said, I was not completely satisfied either by the model he had put forth, or the way it as presented.  Diamond's model came across as a sort of grocery list of factors, when in truth the concept should, I feel, have been presented on a more abstract level - at least in the beginning.  The dynamic stability of the social structures we humans weave is a tenuous thing, and as societies grow and change over time, the factors influencing them change as well.  Ultimately the people who comprise a society are forced to change in response to changing environments in order to survive.  But to think that humans can consciously influence the directions history's path ultimately takes is, at this juncture, more like denial than real science.    Diamond compares anthropological data from societies of which we know the ultimate outcome, and uses that model to analyze current global culture.  Why he chose this model is not totally clear.  Normally a scientist would select multiple models, and show why one or another should be discarded or modified.  The reasons he chose the specific cultural examples he presented, or what other models may come into play, are simply not discussed.  To give an example, paleontological evidence of animal population expansion and collapse are evident throughout the fossil record.  Can we use this information to modify the model he presented?  I would have expected Diamond to use the Roman Empire as an example of a more \\"globalized\\" society, and it might have been interesting to understand why he thought this classic collapse example was not usable.  The ultimate test of a scientific model is in its ability to predict future events.  Diamond does not or can not do this, because either his model is incomplete...  Or... he simply refuses to accept the inevitable conclusion of his model.  Instead he lapses into wishful thinking.    But Diamond-the-dreamer is not as effective as getting a message across as Diamond-the-geographer.  We are left at the end with a \\"further reading\\" list - in a sense he is saying \\"I don't know what to do, so I'm leaving it up to you.\\"  I am reminded of \\"The Lorax\\" by Dr. Suess, a far less expensive book.    I still give the book quite high marks for even approaching this subject, and it certainly was readable.  Overall a moderate thumbs up.	2005-05-02
US	52515394	R3GOOJQWKEXHZ3	1420819992	9040961	Descent to Avalon: The Coyoteman Chronicles - Book Two	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Adventure Continues	I am the author of this charming sequel, and I guarantee you will enjoy it.  In this, my second book of the Coyoteman Chronicles, Taine and Joanne are welcomed into the thriving Morongo Valley Indian tribe.  Coyoteman appears during the welcoming ceremony, and offers a mysterious gift of his own.  The two soon find themselves on a search for some missing young braves in the ruins of post-Change Los Angeles.  The City of Angels is a dangerous place, and barely a day passes before the two adventurers become separated. Taine is captured by fanatics who have built a massive wall around their colony in San Pedro.  Their leader, the Charismatic \\"Uncle Christ\\", is planning to refloat the steamship Queen Mary, but takes the time to brainwash Taine.  Meanwhile Joanne runs for her life through the burned-out city.  She finds safe haven in the home of Darth Shadi, scientist, and friend of the enigmatic Coyoteman.  With Coyoteman's reluctant help, Joanne and Darth puzzle out a rescue plan for Taine.  This plan includes a \\"State-of-the-art\\" flying ship (a blimp), and a little Coyote-ish slight of hand. But with Taine in the hands of the powerful Uncle Christ, he travels a tortured path that could ultimately turn him against his old benefactor, Coyoteman. <br /> <br />And what of Coyoteman's gift?  In the astonishing conclusion, the purpose of the gift is revealed.  But the door is still wide open to clean up manifold loose ends.  Look for \\"Fallow Fields of Wisdom,\\" the third and last book, to tie these up.  This book will be completed late this year. <br /> <br />\\"Descent to Avalon\\" contains its share of adult scenes, and reader descretion is advised.  But if you liked \\"Las Vegas Rite,\\" you will love \\"Descent.\\"	2005-02-05
US	52515394	R1S2XD5HJS7CX1	0743479165	23531771	Enigma: Book2 of the Trigon Disunity (Book Two of the Trigon Disunity)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Challenging Mystery	Overall this book is quite good.  Its flavor is a tad more subtle than the previous book in the series, and marks the difficult middle ground between the dramatic Emprise and the conclusive Empery.  As a yarn, I place it rather high, and Kube-McDowell manages to hold onto his audience in this one, better than say, Inherit the Stars did with its sequel.  The story here is quite clever:  Humans went to the stars thousands of years ago, but how did they get there, and why did the initial attempts at interstellar travel fail.  Good stuff!	2004-04-13
US	52515394	R263N8K9LB1S3	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Real Problem, Poorly Presented, No Solution Offered	Yes we are a many-headed hydra, with our fingers in every pie.  Through generations of administrations, we prove time and again that our foreign policies are written to favor our own, unenlightened self interest.  Blowback is a single word to describe how we don't even look out for ourselves very well.  This book is loaded with real examples of how we shamelessly manipulate markets, and, to a lesser extent, how these machinations come back to haunt us.<br />However, the real fish in this book are often cloaked in a sea of misinformation, unnecessary rhetoric, and unprovable innuendo.  The author would almost have you believing that the USA is the only political entity that engages in such sport - that if we just left poor China alone, everything would work out great.  What's worse, Johnson offers no real solutions.  In fact, I suspect he doesn't have any.  I liken this book to the man on the streetcorner announcing that the end of the world is near.<br />There is information here that all Americans should know.  There is also good writing.  So it's not a waste of time to read this.  Use a critical eye if you do, and be sure to let us all know if you find the solution to a problem which is ultimately one of human nature - not politics at all.	2003-06-16
US	52515394	R1OEO44QFP0RY0	0684801280	168753818	Driven to Distraction: Recognizing and Coping with Attention Deficit Disorder from Childhood Through Adulthood	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Valuable Resource For We Who Are A Little Different	Ah!  If only this book had been written 30 or 40 years ago.  Then when my parents and teachers came at me with &quot;You're so smart, why can't you concentrate and get good grades.&quot;  Or &quot;Listen to me, stop drifting off!&quot; - I would show them this.  As it was, as with so many of us, those around us became frustrated, and ultimately came to set their expectations lower.  While we came to be our worst critics, and often drowned in depression, guilt, and disarray.  <br />Sound like your life?  This is the book for you.  Not only does it show that this is the result of a specific set of brain hardware configurations, but it provides real solutions for coping with and even lifting away the fog that pervades our lives.  <br />If you think you or one of your loved ones may have this problem, this is a very good book to get.  It sets a useful perspective, and is a great resource.	2001-03-29
US	52515394	R3926PSWU0340Q	0441699111	581685791	Quiet Pools (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Humanity Goes To Seed	This is a work to be proud of.  Just the right combination of action and character development, with a believable setting at the beginning of the 22nd century.  Kube-McDowell chronicles the end of the Diaspora project - an ambitious program to send humanity to nearby star systems.  The first ship has already left, and a second of five total is about to leave.  <br />But wait!  There's more here than meets the eye.  Diaspora project geneticists have discovered that there's a genetic sequence in life that actually calls us to the stars.  We no more have choice in the matter than the salmon moving upstream to spawn.  The web of human activity unfolding in this engrossing tale is overprinted by a genetic pre-destiny, which drives some to the skies, and others to oppose any such venture.<br />Ultimately the opposers, lead by the shadowy Jeremiah, succeed in halting the project, but not before the second ship leaves.  And behind the backdrop of the personal dramas, earth quietly goes to seed, casting its precious packages to the cosmic winds.<br />An engrossing tale.  Compare this to my review of Hogan's &quot;Cradle of Saturn&quot;.	2001-03-29
US	52515394	R35FSW2UVTSPIM	0520010558	25905585	The Rise of Scientific Philosophy	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Mysticism on the rocks	Reichenbach pulls no punches.  By the time he's finished, traditional, speculative philosophies are dead, buried and left without a headstone.  (That these &quot;undead&quot; philosophies continue stalk the land, well, that's another story...) <br />According to Reichenbach - and his logic is impeccable - while the rationalist philosophers painted their mystical canvases, the parallel development of science, and scientific method handed the empiricists the tools they needed to produce the first grounded philosophic view.  The search for certainty had the classic philosophers barking up the wrong tree.  And meanwhile, the exploration of the microscopic world, coupled with the creation of a new mathematical tool - statistics - bootstrapped the scientific community into a model of the universe that was not causal, but probabilistic.<br />And what of ethics?  Just as there are no absolute answers to the physical world, Reichenbach leaves the moral bucket empty as well.  Your ethics, he argues, are ultimately what you choose to posit for yourself.<br />There is much more, lurking in this dense and difficult book.  Published in 1951 - two years prior to his death - this is a tour-de-force of a man who was a contemporary of Einstein, and a participant in the famed &quot;Weiner Kreiss&quot;  (Vienna Circle) which  included such mighty minds as Kurt Godel.  (See my review of D. Hofstadter's &quot;Godel, Escher, Bach...&quot;)  Reichenbach was one hot potato, armed with superior weaponry, and ready to take on the world.<br />The tragedy of this pursuit of consistency, which is the trademark of the scientific view, is that it probably will never come to guide society at large.  Empty as it is, it is unacceptable to the majorities, whom Reichenbach was certainly not writing to, and who have no working concept of the scientific method.  Most people do not want to hear that there are no ultimate answers.<br />One very big problem I see with this philosophy lies not with its truthfulness, but in its usefulness.  We humans have a tough situation all around.  We have a state of awareness which far exceeds that of our animal brethren, but we are bound with all the other animal traits, including mortality.  Therefore, since we became aware of our frailties, we have consistently sought a coping mechanism.  The rationalist view offered some hope - be it a blatant lie - but scientific philosophy, alas, does not.  In truth, it runs counter to any coping mechanism one might choose to create.  It is certainly not a philosophy for the weak and sick.  This is the largest difficulty I see with its acceptance.   As correct as Reichenbach may be, how can we stomach sending our children into a world where there's no intrinsic good or bad?  How can we prepare them?  The search for an easy answer may be wrong - but it's easy!  And like water, humanity will likely take the easy path.  There are many sweeter smelling flowers out there.  Why choose this one?  The author could have spent some effort making this philosophy more appealing to the masses, but he chose not to.<br />So is it just for scientists after all?  The implications of scientists, blindly searching for more empty knowledge, as pawns of the capitalists, guided by a philosophy of blind greed, creating new and better tools and toys for the rest of us, yields a rather uncomfortable image in my mind of the future of the human race.  But, after all, it truly doesn't matter what we do.  And even though the truth is sometimes a bit scary, I do like the concept of creating my own vision and values.<br />Now it's true that humans created both traditional and scientific philosophy, and however different their origins may have been, they are both here to stay.  Are there any implications for the future of society in general?  After reading this book, I would have to say:  &quot;Probably&quot;.<br />Very interesting book, but not for everyone.	2001-01-29
US	52515394	R2X7WGLU3WFNSZ	1568497067	198870493	Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Teetering on the precipice	Dillard's problem is that she is a self-avowed &quot;Anchorite&quot;, but she is indeed anchored in more than one place.  This is strongly evident in her writing pattern - the words and their placement.  Here is someone - correct me if I'm wrong - with high intelligence, encouraged as a child to develop a strong curiosity about the natural world, but still attended sunday-school without fail.  Her religious paradigm is colored deeply by questions largely focused on what is &quot;fair&quot; in nature.  The descriptive text is well-made, and Dillard's wit is tight - her observing eye keen; all of which makes for good reading.  But it is this conflict between observed nature, and the pre-packaged but deeply-rooted mythos, that keeps Dillard teetering on the precipice.<br />Her faith pulls her back again and again.  The words of praise for her god that pepper the book seem strangely disconnected from the rest of the writ, and I can't follow her there.  So there's a level of disappointment on my part.  I want to see what pulls her back from the cliff's edge, but I can't see it from my perspective, (here at the bottom of the abyss).<br />The natural world is indeed full of wonders.  And not too little of this book focuses on those that Annie reads about and discovers first-hand for herself.  People have been writing about parasites with some level of knowledge for hundreds of years, but Dillard puts it so personally - it is affecting - and her affectation is communicated so well.  That must be a part of the equation, as much as the actual observations themselves.  I give her high marks for that.<br />In case you miss it, there is a profound level of separation from the world of people in this book.  I could find only one instance of actual conversation with another person, near the book's center.  This is, I believe, intentional, but it is only a half-truth, in that although humanity is abandoned, its tools are not, and pursuing this environment with the intent of writinga book takes one full circle.<br />From my perspective, I look at this story of a year's passage, and wonder why the truth seems so difficult for the author to claim.  The tale of killing a bee with an echo should be more than enough to convince one that, although a grasshopper can change to a locust, the mechanism to change wine to blood is not there through ceremony.  You have to drink it, my friend.  And the body will do the rest.<br />Ultimately we have no pilgrim here.  Though in the mind, Dillard attempts to journey, in truth, she never actually leaves the station.  I therefore give four stars, because there's room for improvement, and it is not too late to begin the journey.  You have the eyes, Annie.  Oh what strange manner of temples you could feast them on!  <br />Do I recommend this book?  How could I not?  In fact, I challenge you to read it!	2000-12-14
US	52515394	RG3D1VJ89MNXS	0316004162	648230914	Confessions of a Barbarian: Selections from the Journals of Edward Abbey 1951-1989	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Life is precious	Ever since I decided to try my hand at writing, I've been curious - more than curious really - driven, to determine what makes us write.  I may not be any closer to understanding this after reading &quot;Confessions&quot;, but I do know that the need to express oneself this way is shared by many.  Edward Abbey was one of those afflicted with the need to write.  And in addition to all his many public works, Abbey kept a series of journals.<br />And so now we have &quot;Confessions of a Barbarian&quot;, a compendium of Abbey's journals, gracefully and affectionately edited by David Petersen.<br />Here is a very rare opportunity to see into the mind of (at least near) genius - a graphic picture of a life, captured from young adulthood to until Abbey's death at the age of 62.  (I say &quot;near genius&quot; because how one measures genius is certainly varied.  I don't believe that Abbey thought of himself as a genius, and heaven knows, I sure don't want to offend him - not even now!)  Here was a life richly experienced, analyzed, self-criticized, and most of all, transcribed - on and on, until the &quot;kows&quot; finally came home.<br />Contrast this with my review of &quot;One life at a time, please&quot;, where I accused Abbey of not being quite honest.  I stand by that statement, but here, in &quot;Confessions&quot;, at least one mask comes off.  Instead of one merely critical of the external world, we finally see the man critical of himself.  He did write to make a buck.  He wrote for many reasons.  The point here is that he wrote.<br />Call Abbey what you will - environmentalist, philanderer, curmudgeon - all true from time to time.  But Abbey was a writer, first and foremost.  That is the one thing you can say about him that always holds true.  He couldn't stay married.  He couldn't take adequate care of his children (a self-confession - of sorts).  His vision of paradise, such as it was, was inconsistent and self-defeating.  He had racist, and anarchistic tendencies. (How common to have them - forgive us all - but how rare to find them in print!)  But always he wrote.  He wrote to himself.  He wrote to the world.  He wrote at times when he should have been taking care of the problems he was writing about.  Books, letters, articles, and of course this journal.  Abbey had the heart of a writer.  He was, as they say, driven.<br />Abbey's favorite place was the western frontier.  That's where he wanted to be with all his heart.  And it was his favorite writing topic.  It was more than a place and subject matter.  It was his obsession.  The West taunted Abbey like a seductive, young woman.  (And we all know now how Abbey was attracted to young women!)  The West's rich colors, profound relief, and intense climate were like an addiction, and Abbey soon mainlined himself.  But as far as I can tell, that is the one thing no one seriously tried to talk him out of.<br />The West is big - or was anyway.  Big enough to fill a young man with big dreams.  As Abbey matured, his public works were driven toward a single theme: to communicate the tragedy of the closing frontier - the end of dreams.<br />In &quot;Confessions of a Barbarian&quot;, this loss of dreams is finally overshadowed by the loss of the dreamer himself.  I literally wept when I read the postscript (which was somewhat embarassing for me, being in a public place).  But I share a sense of pride and dignity, because even though I never met the man, I know him.  I know him well enough to understand the loss that Petersen feels.  Yes, I know it.  I dare you to read &quot;Confessions&quot; and not love this man.	2000-11-22
US	52515394	RGCTT44Q5JNR7	0966765907	549101715	The Four Shields: The Initiatory Seasons of Human Nature	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Rites of Passage	Many years ago, I took the trail to the top of Mt. Whitney.  Leaving my older, less confident companions behind in the predawn hours at Whitney Portal, I moved quickly up the trail.  By mid-morning I was cooling my heels at Trail Camp, a campground of sorts, in a barren glacial basin at 12,000 feet.  With another 2500 feet of climbing ahead of me, the trail lead off into a steep jumble of cobbles and boulders.  I could see a notch in the ridge above, where the trail was likely headed, but it was not at all obvious how it got there.<br />I had no guide, but from training as a scout, I knew how to evaluate subtle trail sign, and before long, I was nearing the top of the ridge.  From there, the final leg to the top of the mountain was much easier to follow.<br />A surprise lay below me.  Looking back down the slope that I had just climbed so tediously, the trail was laid out like a map.  I could see every switchback and turn.  Invisible from below, but completely obvious from above.<br />Human life is more than mirrored in mythology.  Each individual's adventure has a potential of mythic intensity and proportion.  Our personal experiences are greater and more mysterious than we can often bear, without overlaying those experiences on the framework of mythology.  But by properly framing our life's journey, paths once invisible become remarkably clear.<br />Foster has chosen the cycle of the seasons, and the wealth of mythos surrounding this cycle, as a model for the human life experience.  And he uses his model to assist others in making difficult but necessary life transitions.  His model, much more so than how he uses it, is the basis for this book.<br />Looking back, it's as obvious as the back of your hand - or my trail up the mountain - the truth of this model.  Yet modern, mechanistic humanity cannot easily envision this model, because so few of us have actually made the transitions.  We as a society, with all our complex tinkertoys and petty battles, are a world of children.  We have forgotten how to grow up.  Those of us that do, have largely done so by ourselves unaided.  But for most of us, our core personalities cannot mature in a world that offers us nothing but a cacophony of media mainlining  and pseudo-cultural posturing.  There's not much chance of escaping this chaotic nightmare.  <br />The vision of the &quot;Four Shields&quot; offers some hope amidst all of this.  In truth, this is more than just a book describing a philosophy.  It is a way of life - Foster and Little have been living it for decades now - which finally has found its way to paper.  Conceivably it could be a blueprint for expanded consciousness.  It is highly likely that this book was written with no thought of financial recompense. It was written personally for you - and everyone.  For now the only thing I can say is: this book must be purchased, read, and if at all possible, understood.  It may not change the path you are on, but it will make that path much clearer.	2000-10-16
US	52515394	R14QM9IBXZSXIN	0805006036	566418772	One Life at a Time, Please	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Abbey reveals some weakness in his character and writings	I had great expectations after reading the first essay: Free Speech.  I feel like the book went downhill from there.  Abbey seems particularly fond of wandering off by himself, but frankly, when he's part of a white-water rafting excursion, I have serious doubts that they would even let him do that.  I'm certain now that he's taking considerable &quot;artistic license&quot; in some of these essays.  For me the low point was &quot;Writer's Credo&quot;.  I felt a strong level of insincerity in this piece -  How can a writer feel it's his duty to criticize everyone around him without first subjecting himself to the same standards.  Frankly, at best, &quot;Credo&quot; is just a justification for Abbey's misanthropic tendencies.  At worst, it's a lie.  <br />&quot;Krutch&quot; was just plain boring.  &quot;Sex&quot; was somewhat redeeming.<br />I'm not sure what to say about &quot;Sportsmen&quot; - which as Abbey puts it, is simply excerpts from a printed leaflet.  It sure was scary.  The question is, with the questions raised about Abbey's honesty of description, and sincerity of purpose, how factual is this piece titled &quot;Sportsmen&quot;?  I don't want to believe it, and Abbey spent the whole rest of the book crying wolf.  I don't know.<br />I absolutely love some of Abbey's books.  We all love &quot;Desert Solitaire&quot;, and the charicatures of &quot;The Monkey Wrench Gang&quot;, etc., are wonderful.  But this patchwork of rehashed essays seems just like a cheap way to make some extra cash.  In summary, a careful read of this bookwill likely expand your image of this writer, but leave you with questions about his veracity.  I guess the next book for me will have to be &quot;Confessions&quot;.  Don't make this your first foray into Abbey's world.  You're likely to miss the best.	2000-10-01
US	52515394	R1RNE1P7FQ8CWP	1887178570	416663138	Mountains and Rivers Without End	Books	4	16	25	N	N	And Rivers End Without Mountains	I have some ambivalence about giving Snyder 5 stars for this work.  I come  to this collection of poems after reading &quot;Turtle Island&quot;, which  I liked better overall.  It had a bit more of the wide-eyed innocence that  makes the poetry more heart-felt to me, even with that whole section at the  end dedicated to prose on how to make the world a better place.<br />I found  several poems in &quot;Mountains...&quot; that I like better than the ones  in &quot;Turtle Island&quot; - particularly pieces like &quot;Ma&quot;,  which takes the form of a letter from a mother to son.  What I didn't like  so much was the pervasive use of East Indian and Oriental terms, much of  which had little meaning to me.  Recognizing a certain desire on Snyder's  part to &quot;disorient&quot; a traveller through the literature helped  somewhat.  But often I felt Snyder was abusing his &quot;superstar&quot;  status to make these foreign phrases seem more important than they actually  are.  How difficult can it be to just say what you want to say without  resorting to another language?  Snyder certainly has many tools at his  disposal - the sum of which comes under the heading of &quot;Poetic  License&quot;.<br />Admittedly, languages are not solid, and new words creep  in all the time.  Perhaps Snyder feels he is just doing his part to force  the issue with regard to some patterns of thought he wants insinnuated into  western english.  But I don't think it comes off that way all the time.   Many times it just sounds like: &quot;Aren't I clever to come up with this  deep-meaning foreign phrase that you don't understand&quot;.  This  detracted some from the total effect in the book.<br />Ultimately, that's just  me of course.  One must do one's own thinking on these matters.  And since  I gave the thing 4 stars, it obviously still comes highly recomended from  my viewpoint.	2000-09-07
US	52515394	ROB2R32BBAZV9	0811205460	674604412	Turtle Island (A New Directions Book)	Books	5	10	28	N	N	Warm steamy wood, a spicy stew, clear running water, ...	...And a message for you.<br />I've never reviewed a book of poetry before.   Short of &quot;Roses are red...&quot;, or &quot;There once was a man from  Nantucket...&quot;, I'm not sure I could recognize good poetry from bad.   And other than a bit of exposure to Emerson, Poe, and Jeffers, I haven't  been everywhere that poetry can take you.  But this stuff seemed pretty  good.  It was full of playful imagery, flowed well, and it wasn't so  experimental that I got completely lost.<br />In summary, consider it a  pinnacle of 70's hip-thought.  If you read &quot;Sleeping where I  fall&quot;, you'll realize that not a few people wanted to be where  Snyder's head was at.  I'm not sure how many made it though - too much  baggage.  I'm not all with Snyder's way of thinking either.  But I  appreciate his choice of medium, and his attempt to get past expressing the  unexpressable.	2000-09-03
US	52515394	RTFRZIR6CC8TR	0062512943	86029220	It's Easier Than You Think: The Buddhist Way to Happiness	Books	3	22	30	N	N	Reader's Digest Buddhism	A lot of the basics of vanilla buddhism are here, in a form palatable to the shortest of attention spans.  I found Sylvia Boorstein's work  personable, though somewhat dull (perhaps I should say  &quot;peaceful&quot;).  If you are one with little time free for deep  thought outside of your current focuses, this is an easy way to gain a  snapshot of western Buddhism.  It might even be helpful, for in the manner  of the three-word phrase, &quot;Buddhism is Buddhism&quot;.  Those of you  with more time and more interest have many more choices for your reading  pleasure, such as Suzuki's &quot;Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind&quot;.  Ms.  Boorstein is not to be discounted, and although this isn't the best book  I've ever read, it is a labor of love.  So if you're flying cross-country,  this definitely beats airplane movies.	2000-09-01
US	52515394	R2S7T1DEQL9W4G	0380725231	573028455	Coyote Blue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The joke's on us!	The author's challenge is to get us to read a story that has been written  countless times before.  Is the public ready for yet another novel about  someone's not-so-carefully hidden past catching up with him?  Why not  invoke the Trickster of Native American legend?  Let's see:  A little  shape-changing here, a few jokes there.  Throw in some buckskin, and  PRESTO!  A brand new novel that everyone loves.<br />This Coyote, though,  seems strangely attached to his human cohort.  Moore paints a Trickster  bent on leaving a wake of legend behind in the human world.  He lives in  the stories people tell.  <br />Perhaps we're seeing a little of Moore's own  philosophy here, leaving his own footprints on humanity's tapestry of lies.   Or maybe behind everything else, Coyote himself has enticed Moore to  write, because he truly does need his stories told, and only people can  tell them.  In that case the joke's on us.<br />Coyote, in true form, comes  off as a parody of himself.  No matter.  If the Trickster wants to swindle  and beguile a little reverence away from us, then so be it.  If we can  laugh a little on our short drive from womb to tomb, so much the better. If  you're gonna make the trip, may as well take the big blue car.	2000-08-29
US	52515394	R9AQTXXOURRF2	0805017305	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Original American Tragedy, and more	This well-researched piece is more than just a record of the original  American tragedy.  What Dee Brown has provided here is a carefully written  account of a terribly one-sided clash of cultures - one Stone-age, the  other in the throes of an industrial revolution.  There was never any  question about who would win.  The sad thing is in how the cultural  collision played itself out.  For ultimately a cultural clash is an  amalgamation of individual stories.  In each case, Europeans and Native  Americans alike, for better or worse, played out their conditioning to an  end that was all too tragically clear.<br />The natives died defending their  way of life, victims of superior technology and organization, as well as  dehumanizing propoganda.  They died on the reservations, victims of neglect  and political invisibility.  They died by the thousands, and soon no one  was left to carry the cultural banner forward.<br />In the early 19th century,  the plains and western tribes wandered at will (or some would say, as  needed) over their homeland.  By the early 20th century, native culture was  completely disposessed; it's representative peoples either locked up on  reservations or absorbed completely in &quot;white&quot; culture.  This  book provides an answer as to how this transition occured, as painful as  that answer might be.<br />Dee Brown's technically accurate and artistically  rendered account is emminently readable.  Yet chapter by chapter, the  recurring theme becomes almost morbidly familiar.  One begins to be able to  predict what is ultimately going to happen after a while.<br />Don't be fooled  into thinking that the native culture was any better or worse than that  which displaced it.  The real message is that we can't blame ourselves for  what happened.  We can however, take responsibility for what is happening  now.  See humanity through Brown's eyes, and realize that such things as we  have witnessed here can and do happen over and over again.  The best we can  do is to become aware of this capacity, do our best to overcome it -  generation by generation, and follow a more honorable path.<br />The great  tragedy is that, in the European's single-minded quest for land and  freedom, something precious and irreplacible was lost forever.  Read this  book, and learn something about yourself.  It is the very least you can do.st we can  do is to become aware of this capacity, do our best to overcome it -  generation by generation, and follow a more honorable path.<br />The great  tragedy is that, in the European's single-minded quest for land and  freedom, something precious and irreplacible was lost forever.  Read this  book, and learn something about yourself.  It is the very least you can do.	2000-08-27
US	52515394	R2EOSLXEPOHBR7	0689100132	680105694	African Genesis; A Personal Investigation into the Animal Origins and Nature of Man	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Historic beginning of a trend in popular science writing.	I feel like I'm being a little generous giving this one four stars for two reason: (1) It's quite dated - So much has been learned and written, both in formal and popular science circles, since this book was first published  in 1961, the arguments Ardrey puts forth are not quite as true to the mark  as they once appeared to be, but more importantly (2) Ardrey's style of  writing is much less suited to today's readership than it must have been 40  years ago.  He ceaselessly anthropomorphosizes his animal characters far  past where it's proper.  This tends to detract from his overall arguments  in today's more savvy readership.<br />Still, Ardrey had a point to make.  And  it's a good one.  The struggle for survival in the natural world is the  game our ancestors played as well, and we're here because we were good at  it - better than our ancestors competing for the same niche.  That's why  we're here and they're not.<br />This book is also a starting point from which  popular anthropology has its base.  It was very shortly after this point in  time that the Leakeys came into the public arena in a big way.  So it's  interesting to see where the forefront of the public view was at this point  in time.  There's a fairly decent summary of the work done up to that point  as well.  Fellows like Dart, who pioneered the field of modern physical  anthropology, tend to get forgotten in the frenzy of activity that followed  in the 60's and beyond.  For these reasons, the book is worth  getting.<br />Finding Ardrey's &quot;African Genesis&quot; may be a chore.   But the Amazon book search worked for me, ...	2000-08-26
US	52515394	R31ZG6O9LR4SAE	0684855801	592158495	The Lost Civilizations of the Stone Age	Books	3	12	20	N	N	Could have been a contender...	If Rudgley has a point to make, it is that modern human beings have been  around for at least 40,000 years, that they have changed very little during  that time, and the evidence of this truth is richly evident - more being  found every day.<br />This is one of those books I bought at a bookstore  because I liked the cover.  I decided to take a chance on it, even though I  had no reviews of it to guide me. It did appear to cover topics I had  interest in.  I'm full of questions in this area:  What specifically  defines civilization?  Is it the existence of cities?  Or evidence of the  exchange of ideas?  And how does one find the evidence of such an esoteric  concept in the blinding snowstorm of the past.  And there was that cover  picture... So I picked it up.<br />I came away fairly disappointed.  I tend to  be a visually-oriented person, and I was expecting lots of pictures.  I  like maps, charts, drawings, and other visual clues.  Seeing as how most of  what we learn of our past tends to be visual in nature, my expectations  were high in this area.  However, this was not to be.  Instead we get bland  - and I mean bland! - text, which fail to drive home the point, when he  gets around to making it.  I absolutely do not care how many boxes of  artifacts were found at a site.  Show them to me!  In the very beginning  there is talk of &quot;Paleolithic&quot; versus &quot;Neolithic&quot;, and  the author explains that these terms are only widely used to discuss the  timeline in Europe and parts of Asia. Why not show me a chart?<br />There is  some good stuff in here.  All the photos and drawings that Rudgley did  include are worth a gander, and the text does flow and inform at intervals.   But as a popular science work, it's boring.  And if intended as a  scientific treatise, it's, well, in the &quot;stone age&quot; compared to  the real work being done.<br />Though I'm sure Rudgley is right about  language, the supporting evidence is not present in the book, (covered in  other reviews).  I'd have to say that, in summary, Robert Ardrey (African  Genesis), or Richard Dawkins could probably have done a better job of  popularizing this topic.  Rudgley picked too wide a field, displayed too  little evidence, and ultimately fails to spin an entertaining yarn.	2000-08-24
US	52515394	R3ASNVVQGF2T6J	0679724656	862001785	Beyond Good & Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future	Books	2	10	31	N	N	Ravings of a disaffected and estranged intellect	Recognizing that this is a translation from not-quite-modern German  doesn't much help.  Nor does it help that the man is quite often right on  the mark, (once he gets around to making a point).  What really turned me  off about this work, (and Nietzsche's work in general), is the subtle and  not-so-subtle ways that he puts down women.  For Nietzsche, displaying what  he considered feminine qualities is a bad thing, for men or women.  Insults  to women are rampant throughout the book.  I found it difficult to square  my sensitivity to this issue with the philosophy that Nietzsche was trying  to describe.  But I now understand the subterranean relationship between  certain interpretations of this philosophy and the later rise of Fascism in  Europe.  For that, I'll the book two stars rather than one.<br />If you are  willing to tough it out, you'll find yourself at least conversant in the  philosophy of a key player of the early twentieth century.  Hardly seems  worth while for anyone but a student of Philosophy or History,  though.<br />Frederick, if you were still alive, I'd have to say that, though  you may be right about Christianity, you still have a lot to learn about  the human equation (as do we all).  Thanks, but no thanks.	2000-08-23
US	52515394	R3I6EV5QX9LJU2	0520064984	988983112	The Pinnipeds: Seals, Sea Lions, and Walruses	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A Remarkable Treatise on a Fascinating Subject	I know, I know.  People would rather read about movie stars and other  famous people.  I know this one's not on Oprah's reading list.  Initially I  was captivated by the cover of the book, but even though I didn't know much  about Pinnipeds at the beginning, I found it a highly pleasurable and  informative experience to scoot myself right through this book.  <br />I'd  like to step past the obvious positive features of Riedman's lovingly  created product - lucid, readable, interesting, well constructed - and  focus on something a little more subtle.  Riedman steps outside the main  topic of the book frequently, with illustrative and textual hyperbolations  into animal and plant life closely associated or analogous to the  Pinnipeds, presumably in an effort to provide a more three-dimensional view  of her subject matter.  But there's more to it than that.  The picture of  the dead Great White Shark at Ano Nuevo - winter home to the Northern  Elephant Seal - brought home to me the almost innocent wonder with which  Riedman views her subject matter.  I imagined Riedman pouring over  thousands of photographs, and on finding this one, saying &quot;Boy!  I've  got to put that one in!&quot; I have to admit that, by the time I got to  this picture, I was thoroughly hooked as well.  And thinking about it  further, I could see that the world these fascinating creatures inhabit is  truly a different and marvelous place.  <br />To think that before I read this  book, I couldn't tell a Seal from a Sea Lion - both dark, blobby bodies  floating around in the surf or sunning themselves on a tidal rock.  And  after reading &quot;The Pinnipeds&quot;, I find that this image has  expanded so very much more that I feel I can almost picture what the world  must be like through the eyes of that Seal Lion on the cover.  Now, to have  written the book that got me there...  Well all I can say is that Marianne  Riedman is one lucky person to have been given the opportunity to write  this book, highly competent to have take the challenge so well, and above  all so very much aware and so keenly fascinated by her subject matter.   Well done!<br />I also want to say a brief word about the talented artists  that provided illustrations for this book.  Pieter Folkens is a highly  skilled technical illustrator, with a love for marine life, and an eye for  the detail.  He can truly bring his creations to life.  I'm less familiar  with Irene Campagna, but her efforts in &quot;The Pinnipeds&quot; are also  excellent.  Both deserve mention here.	2000-08-20
US	52515394	R2WHO5Z0U5TH5B	0553573322	851694553	Sailing Bright Eternity	Books	3	6	6	N	N	...And then, a miracle happens.	This final novel in the &quot;Galactic Center&quot; set proves that even on a bad day, Benford can still whip out a fairly decent yarn.<br />Not up to  his usual caliber, this novel seems even more disjointed than the previous  few, and so much less lovingly spun than the &quot;Ocean of Night&quot;  which started the series off.  The changes in font are positively annoying,  and the character development - or lack thereof - reduces the believability  and likability of the people we're supposed to be rooting for.   Particularly implausable is the dangerous, tin-man Mantis, whose mysterious  and compelling behavior in the earlier novels is reduced to trying to find  a &quot;heart&quot;.  I was sorely disappointed in this outcome, and I  won't even discuss what a pitiful, sex-starved moron that Nigel Walmsley  has become.  It's just too painful.<br />Despite these and other  disappointments, I have to give Benford credit for leaving this capstone  open-ended, and providing the glorious, off-beat energy that makes his  works so readable.  I've never even written a published novel, and Benford  has managed to pull together so much in this series, despite the reduction  in degrees of freedom that the previous novels require to hold the story  together.  I can't help being reminded of Arthur C. Clark's  &quot;2010&quot; where they somehow managed to change planets from Saturn  to Jupiter.  Sequels can be tough to pull off.  We backed Benford into a  corner, (or maybe he did it himself), and he performed well enough to merit  a moderate &quot;thumbs-up&quot;.  I have definitely read worse	2000-08-18
US	52515394	R6E7476RJAOQ9	0671761897	822256346	Book Of Vision Quest	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Vision  Alone, Wisdom Apart	There is a mountain we all must climb.  Some of us never see the mountain.  Some of those that do see cannot make the climb.  This is a very personal  collection of stories of individual journeys - journeys that attempt to  solidify the bond between the body and the mind.  It is also a universal  pattern, as we begin to see in &quot;Vision Quest&quot;, that we who call  ourselves &quot;human&quot;, must find and connect with our personal  mythos.  Always different in its instantiation, always the same in its  requirement.  And always there.<br />This book is published by Fireside Books,  a part of the Simon&amp;Schuster empire.  They are also the publisher of  &quot;Coyote Medicine&quot;, which I panned pretty heavily in a review last  year for being unsubstantial and largely anecdotal in its evidences.  &quot;Vision Quest&quot; is also anecdotal, which means that Foster and  Little could have cut and paste, publishing those stories they saw fit to  tell their side, and leave out the rest.  However, there are two things  that are quite different about their style which makes this book a smashing  success.  First, they held nothing back, so far as I can tell.  Some of  their customer's journeys weren't success stories at all.  Some were clear  failures, and some were still just hanging on to bare existence.  Their  message still came through.  The second point is that these stories can  only be told in this fashion.  Science is not clearly in the picture here -  skirting the edge.  There's no way one can publish statistics on this  topic, saying &quot;of so many voyagers, x percent achieved total  succees&quot;.  No, this book is about mythology.  And as false as the  stories are that comprise mythology, their lessons are deeply engrained in  the body - no, the spirit - of every one who dares to be human.<br />Reading  &quot;Kinds of Minds&quot;, by Daniel Dennett, may make some of what I  speak of more clear.  Humans differ from other animals because of our  recursive patterns of thought.  This recursion - the ability to subject the  mind to analysis by that same mind - is both a blessing (in that it helped  with our survival), and a curse (in that endless recursion into a black  hole of despair is a definite possibility).  Your mythos is the terminator  to this endless analysis.  Some call this &quot;God&quot;. Some of us have  no name for it, but all the same, it must be there.  Foster and Little  recognize this, and at the same time, they are quite sensitive to the lives  on the edge of our grand society who need, but do not have, this  connection.<br />Knowing full well that the connection itself does not assure  a comfortable place, they nonetheless have created a venue for people to  make this voyage of self discovery.  This book is a brief recounting of  many of those voyages.  It is also an invitation to the rest of us to  follow wherever that path leads.<br />Read this book.sive patterns of thought.  This recursion - the ability to subject the  mind to analysis by that same mind - is both a blessing (in that it helped  with our survival), and a curse (in that endless recursion into a black  hole of despair is a definite possibility).  Your mythos is the terminator  to this endless analysis.  Some call this &quot;God&quot;. Some of us have  no name for it, but all the same, it must be there.  Foster and Little  recognize this, and at the same time, they are quite sensitive to the lives  on the edge of our grand society who need, but do not have, this  connection.<br />Knowing full well that the connection itself does not assure  a comfortable place, they nonetheless have created a venue for people to  make this voyage of self discovery.  This book is a brief recounting of  many of those voyages.  It is also an invitation to the rest of us to  follow wherever that path leads.<br />Read this book.	2000-08-03
US	52515394	R2TC9RZ6G1OP9A	0465073514	585974657	Kinds Of Minds: Toward An Understanding Of Consciousness (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	9	17	N	N	Smart Talking Heads	All around, I'd say this was a pretty good book. I learned a few things, listening to what Dennett has to say.  In a nutshell, the quandry of &quot;How can I tell if a dog is intelligent if he can't talk to me and  tell me one way or the other?&quot; is answered with, &quot;A vast amount  of what we consider intelligence is bound up in the that very speech  issue.&quot;  I don't know why it took a whole book to get around to that,  although the discussions on what comprises intelligence were interesting at  times.  Perhaps I'm just not used to looking at the world through the eyes  of a philosopher.<br />My deepest criticism of this book lies in way the term  &quot;design&quot; was used, over and over, to explain the evolution of the  body and mind.  Maybe I failed to truly grasp the &quot;Intentional  Stance&quot;, as Dennett puts it, but I cannot fathom how DNA strings as a  genotype can possibly know the larger characteristics of the resulting body  (holotype).  The success of a particular genotype is dependent on the  survivability of the holotype, but the connection ends there.  There is no  strategy on any level or &quot;stance&quot;, as far as I can tell.   Conscious adaptions made by one creature must also be made by subsequent  generations of offspring, as long as a more survivable mutation fails to  arrive.  There is no connection between these two physical acts, other than  the capacity of a certain genotype to permit flexibility in the behavior of  its holotype.  Here's a quote from Chapter 4, talking about a baby not  wanting to crawl across a glass floor, overlooking what appears to be a  great abyss: &quot;Even though the mother beckons it from a few feet  away..., the infant hangs back fearfully, despite never having suffered a  fall in its life.  The experience of its ancestors is making it err on the  side of safety.&quot;  Unless Dennett is refering to the death of potential  ancestors that failed to fear heights at an early age, I can't see howexperience relates in the slightest to the behavior the baby is  exhibiting.<br />Metaphorically, though, I can make some sense of it.  And  despite this systemic error, the book is a good, relatively easy read.   There are things to be learned here.  The language, however, makes this  book vulnerable to the same attacks by fundamentalists that I have  described in my reviews of books by Richard Dawkins.  (This criticism  doesn't count for much in my overall rating - as I'm not exactly certain  what kind of langauge it would take to resolve that issue.)  I'm looking  forward to taking in some of Dennett's recommended reading, and I give this  manuscript a solid thumbs up.	2000-07-28
US	52515394	R2ZJHXIQ963KQZ	0671578669	329662424	Cradle of Saturn	Books	2	8	13	N	N	A Scientific Embarassment	You know, I really enjoyed &quot;Inherit the Stars&quot;, and the sequel &quot;..Gentle Giants..&quot; was okay.  Both had a scientific authenticity that made the stories ever so much more enjoyable.  But apparently Hogan  has fallen off the wagon, and fallen in with the Crystal Healers in this  improbable tale that debunks practically every major accepted scientific  theory, from astrophysics and orbital mechanics to evolution and isotopic  geology.  Clearly motivated by previous nutcase Velikovsky, Hogan literally  villifies institutional science, as he scrapes together every half-baked,  anecdotal pseudo-scientific story he can find.  At times, I would swear  this story was being written by a Biblical Creationist - they are so good  at ignoring the intricate web of interconnected and supporting scientific  evidence.  Ironically, this is just the argument that Hogan uses to trash  the world's scientific institutions.  Predictably, I got pretty mad.<br />I  won't bore you with the details, but the astronomical aspect of this story  involves a protoplanet spewed out from Jupiter that just happens to be  destined for a close encounter with Earth, after going around the Sun.   According to the story, this has happened before in Earth's recent history,  and all the &quot;real&quot; evidence points to this bizarre conclusion,  but none of the powerful figures in the scientific community believe it.  I  can safely say that the odds of a single ocurrence on such a scale is,  quite literally, astronomically low.  And two such events in a six thousand  year timeframe is ridiculous! (And that's assuming that Jupiter actually  does hock up these planetary spitwads!)<br />Edgar Rice Burroughs wrote of a  mysterious and unknown island called Caprona, somewhere in the Southern  Ocean, and the story was fine for its time.  If written today, in the  current era of multiple orbiting observation platforms, the author would be  laughed right out of the publishing houses.  And that'sexactly what should  be done with this piece of literary junk.<br />Admittedly, the action in the  second and third parts was riveting at times.  But every spare moment our  heros had, they'd be patting themselves on the back for being right.   Despite the obvious conclusion the book was headed for, I found myself  rooting for the meteors, hoping for a miraculous dead-on strike.  Hogan  seems so good at that.<br />If you want to read something by Hogan, read  &quot;Inherit the Stars&quot;.  Don't bother with this one.	2000-07-15
US	52515394	R2RXDVE5X7J7CE	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A noble try, but not up to the task.	What kind of evidence would it require to dislodge one of your  strongest-held beliefs?  Some very interesting stories can be told about  how geologists have made large shifts in commonly-held beliefs.  Not too  long ago, it was widely believed that all rocks were material deposited out  of a primordial sea.  It took repeated visits to watch Mt Etna erupt in  Sicily to convince scientists that there were indeed rocks that formed from  cooling melt.  This century, a preponderance of evidence mounted in favor  of Plate Tectonics and Continental Drift, but again some scientists had to  be dragged kicking and screaming into the camp.  Interpretations of Lunar  Geology are still subject to some rather acidic debate.  The point is, even  to someone who supposedly gives observation priority, paradigm shifts are  immensely difficult.  Imagine how difficult the times must have been for  Darwin: Evidence was pointing in a particular direction, and almost  everybody else is his life was pointing the other way.<br />Most laypersons  (nonscientists) are not so burdened by such Hypocratic adherence to  scientific method.  They come into adulthood with a firm set of beliefs,  and may not be interested at all in your observations.  They would rather  use any tactic at all to bolster their own position, including nitpicking  your grammer to outright shouting down your voice.<br />Maybe I'm being to  harsh with Dawkins - Perhaps no book could shake firmly entrenched  creationist thought process.  But this book is definitely not the one to do  the job, if any book could have that capacity.  This one just reaffirms the  beliefs already held by the majority of the scientific community, while  providing ample cannon fodder to the Creationists - (oh, excuse me,  &quot;Intelligent Design Theorists&quot;) - to counter the arguments most  any way the feel like it.  The points Dawkins makes are not concise or  strong enough.  This is a ball-peen hammer - here to do a pile-driver's  job.  Arethere enough fence-sitters left where this book might be useful?   Maybe, but I think that the hyperbolations that come out in the last  chapter will lose most of them.<br />I benefited from this book by seeing a  certain &quot;poetry&quot; to evolution and the evidence that supports it.   For that I'll give it three stars, and say that it might be worth reading  by someone with a scientific bent.  Creationists, don't bother - I get very  annoyed with the stupid reviews that don't address the content or style.	2000-07-09
US	52515394	RHXK2E221F07	0824014391	159274892	TIME STREAM (The Garland Library of Science Fiction)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	How easy to get lost in the stream of time...Or is it?	Here's a fascinating tale by John Taine, who is actually mathematician  Eric Temple Bell.  As I read this, back in the Sixties, the book contained  two other stories: The Purple Sapphire, and The White Lilly.  All these  stories are somewhat dated, but quite original pieces, that stand by  themselves.  The Time Stream follows several travelers, who make use of  some rather interesting properties of time - apparently it behaves like  water flowing, and thus has eddy currents that can be used to move both  forward and back if you know how.  The Purple Sapphire is an adventure tale  set in the wilderness of Tibet, and assumes there are places on this earth  that are remote and mysterious.  It's a good yarn, and well spun, if you  can set yourself back to those times.  The White Lilly is a fairly dated  &quot;jekyll-hyde&quot; piece about the good and not-so-good aspects of  experimentation with radiation, (something that has been done to  death).<br />Still if you can find them, you'll find them well-written and  fun.  Well worth trying to find.	2000-07-08
US	52515394	R2FIK32KJ7K291	067157826X	946394457	Sixth Column	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent for its time.	I first read this book back in the sixties, and it is representative of  the &quot;WWIII/Invasion&quot; genre of stories that were quite common at  the time in print and on the screen.  This is a good one, because despite  the racial overtones (perhaps a tad less acceptable now), it is close to  believable.  I like that in a SciFi book.  All too often, the author will  make some stupid mistake or leap of faith that renders the rest of the  story completely unreadable for me.  Heinlein almost never did that.  He  either had his facts straight, or went somewhere where there weren't so  many facts to trip him up.<br />This is vastly different from the  &quot;stranger in a strange land&quot; style, but it is definitely Heinlein  all the way.  And I personally found it difficult to put down.  I recommend  it as an excellent representative of a specific mid-century style, as a  representative of Heinlein's early writings, and as a good though dated  read.	2000-07-08
US	52515394	R3RB3ZUX1JLPHU	0553265784	647530636	In the Ocean of Night	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Delicious Facts	Though this book turns out to the be the opening shot in a six-novel series, it stands remarkably well by itself as a peak in Benford's writing style, and a monumental achievement in the Sci Fi genre.  The series spans  a significant period of Benford's career, and major changes in his writing  style are quite noticable over its timeframe.<br />Walmsley, the main  character, is an aging astronaut with an interesting homelife. (He shares a  flat with two women - this could fill a book all by itself!)  The  interactions with alien intelligence, the primary focus of the story, seems  almost secondary to the personal changes that Walmsley goes through.  And  when an alien computer &quot;re-arranges&quot; his mind, one of the more  interesting ideas comes to the fore: what happens to our interpretations of  reality simply by modifying our carefully build sets of observations?   Reality isn't as clear-cut as it appears to be.<br />If you are prepared for  Benford's subtle style, you will love this book.  (And if you can find it,  of course.)	2000-06-26
US	52515394	RYU0ZE05E98L5	0553297090	154082397	Timescape	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A possible future	I like this novel.  Benford is very good with character and situation development.  He weaves interesting and complex characters.  He does make certain demands of his readers though, expecting us to fill in the gaps  with our imagination, in order to understand some fairly complex  decision-making.  This style is not for everyone.  <br />Briefly, the story  tells of a dialogue between a possible future and its past; one direction  of the communication is with a time-independent particle stream, the other  direction with messages left in a safe-deposit box.  <br />This is, I believe,  one of Benford's earlier works, and has a rough-hewn quality to it, but the  story is quite good, and portends of great things to come.  I really feel  his writing style reached a peak in &quot;The Ocean of Night,&quot; and I  view that as a better novel than this one.  This book stands on its own as  an exciting and well-written work.  I won't give away the end, but you need  to be on your toes to pick up on what's happening in both worlds - skimming  is not allowed.	2000-06-26
US	52515394	R3IBAE8T0TBLLH	0879979933	714111841	Gameplayers of Zan	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A superb piece of work	There is so much to this novel, it's hard to decide what to talk about.  I must summarize up front by saying this is Foster's best work, and as a writer, he is right up there with the best of the rest.<br />In  &quot;Gameplayers,&quot; centuries have passed since the experimentation  with human genetics produced the Ler, and the Earth is now shared between  the densely-populated humans and their highly-intelligent but less fecund  offspring.  The Ler have built a complex, and largely incomprehensible  society, but all this is in jeopardy, as the humans covet most of what  space the Ler have.<br />The Ler, impeccably described by Foster in a most  entertaining way, are, in secret, in the process of creating an  interstellar ship that will take many of them off-earth.  This ship is like  nothing you've ever heard of: evolving as the Ler tend it.  And when it  unexpectedly comes to life during the watch of a young and unprepared  cadet, she must bend her mind in order to save the project.  Something  breaks in the process, and only a former lover (our hero) can save her, the  ship, and the Ler race.  <br />The climax is astonshing, but getting there is  even more fun.  This is a &quot;must get&quot;.	2000-06-26
US	52515394	RWKII8740TDVU	0879978198	109824241	Waves	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Not bad for a first effort	I think this is probably one of Foster's first, if not the first novel.  For that, he gets a sympathy vote, and for those of you exploring the history of a rather decent SciFi writer, it won't hurt to read this  one.<br />Bear in mind though that the characters are not as well-developed or  enjoyable as those in later works.  And the plot is so subtle, you may  accidentally pass right over the climax.<br />You can already see, though,  Foster's view of the universe, whose denisons and inhabitants are so varied  and strange that discovering who and what they are can be the basis for a  unique and readable story.<br />Look for this and other of Foster's books in  used bookstores.  They do show up ocassionally.	2000-06-26
US	52515394	R37JUM3SPQ6TL2	0316004138	277863557	Hayduke Lives!: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A slow start, but the blood doeth flow...	I think this book could have used a little more help from the editors, or perhaps the author.  But in Abbey's defense, time was running a little short.  This is classic Abbey, and the story does get rolling after a  while.  It got my blood flowing, and there's no lack of action.  I'll say  that.  Abbey's ever-present push for anarchy is in full bloom, and it  sometimes gets a little wearing.  (The man seems to have a one-track mind.)   His characterizations verge on comic-book, and holy cats and bananas, can  this guy hyperbolate!  Nevertheless, money well spent, and a good read.	2000-06-22
US	52515394	R3RIORM1U3SZNR	189508203X	878595840	Mountains and rivers: Zen teachings on the San sui kyo of Dogen zenji	Books	5	5	6	N	N	How close can words get?	Can a transcription of a translation of words from the San Sui Kyo by Dogen Zenji, in the venue of a seminar/class, bring the concepts of Zen Buddhism closer to your own heart, just by reading?  It seems intrinsically  unlikely, doesn't it?  And yet, this book is a prolific energizer, and is  ripe with the concepts that surround the thing we call Zen. <br />Reading this  book is like being a central figure in a gigantic koan.  I recommend being  out in a park while reading this, preferably in the company of laughing  children, greenness, and gently-moving water.  The real test will be to see  if you can put the book down and just be where you are.  If you can do  that, you don't need to read it.  (Otherwise you may end up like me:  writing reviews of books about Zen.)  If you can find this book, you will  enjoy it	2000-06-14
US	52515394	R38033UVGEZVJ0	0865474745	658798733	Cultivating the Empty Field: The Silent Illumination of Zen Master Hongzhi	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Finding the invisible colors	Journey with translator Taigen Daniel Leighton (with the assistance of Yi Wu), as he explores a collection of thoughts from the mind of a brilliant 12th century philosopher, Zen Master Hongzhi.  Clearly this is a labor of  love, from many perspectives.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend this book  as a first foray into eastern philosophy, but it is wonderful to see how  rich the lives of humans can be, even when they lived 800 years ago.  And  how rich your own life could be.	2000-06-13
US	52515394	R1A6ZN2N1AG50M	1561840734	318724813	Zen Without Zen Masters	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Short and to the point	It's all here.  This is the Funny - Cartoon - Western approach to the gate, but it's the same gate.  Look for this book.  If you can't find it, email me, and I'll loan you my copy.	2000-06-13
US	52515394	R32ICQYSHPH77G	0805203516	610162313	The Trickster: A Study in American Indian Mythology	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Coyote on the couch	Although occasionally dry, the connection between myth and psych is touched on here - distinguishing this material from more conventional anthologies of Coyote/Trickster legends.  I might suggest the more readable  Joseph Campbell, and indeed there's a bit of a connection between the two  writers, and Carl Jung.<br />There's new material here, even if a little too  intellectual for some.  Some of the legends were new to me, and the  valuable tidbits made it worth wading through.  Jung's contribution is  unique.  In summary:  It's a slower read, but worth the effort.	2000-06-13
US	52515394	R3CABOTQ7CKFQ8	158243011X	628684651	Sleeping Where I Fall: A Chronicle	Books	5	21	24	N	N	&quot;In search of the lost chord...&quot;	It's difficult for me to rate this book - difficult for me to read it without crying.  Although Peter's story wasn't my story, it was close enough for me to take it extremely personally.  His time was my time, even  though it took us in far different directions professionally.<br />I thought  there were problems with the story:  The writing seemed amateurish at  times, and there were certain logical conflicts.  For instance: I had  trouble with why, if the vehicles were so lovingly taken care of, they were  always breaking down; or how Peter could descend into a cold-call  investment scheme.  These things lead me to believe there was more to the  story than was being told.  Based on what I read, I perceive that Peter  didn't (and perhaps doesn't) know himself quite as well as he thought he  did.<br />From the read, it is never clear what kind of world the  &quot;Hippies&quot; (for lack of a better word) thought was better.  And am  I supposed to believe that Heroin was going to make me a better parent?   With all the discourse about how this or that action was either for or  against the group goals, it's hard for me to justify on any level how drugs  could be considered a positive thing.  In many ways, Peter and his  associates were still tightly attached to the main stream - more resembling  a flock of refugees, than delegates of an alternative path.  Much like  reading Carlos Casteneda's &quot;Teachings of Don Juan,&quot; I became very  frustrated at times, waiting for Peter to wake up and see what was standing  right before his eyes.<br />What were the positive things this movement had to  offer, and how have they influenced, say, my life?<br />One thing that serves  to separate us from the preceding generation is a distrust of the status  quo, gained largely due to the Viet Nam debacle.  Since that time, I  haven't seen or heard one thing that would lead me to believe that those in  the high echelons of government are anything other than pathological liars.   But it wasn't the Hippie movement per se that set me free.  It was books  like &quot;The Pentagon Papers&quot;, and other literary tidbits from  disaffected insiders.  And although I found something of an identity from  the counter-cultural movements of that time, I never ended up swallowing  their view of the universe either.  It's easy, though, to imagine that,  without the counter-culture, most of this information would never have seen  the light of day.  Over time, I did come to see that there are many world  views, and ultimately this was a vital step on the road to my present  philosophy.  The environmental issues, so plainly evoked in this book, were  representative of the opening skermishes of a paradigm shift that  (hopefully) continues to this day.  My pet peeve, population, wasn't  addressed in this accounting, even though it was a profound discovery of  that time as well.  I was surprised it wasn't brought out more, although it  has occured to me that Peter and his cohorts may not have dealt with it at  the time.<br />Despite all my bemoaning the details, this is a &quot;big&quot;  book about a big time.  Closest to my heart were the friends and  aquaintences that fell by the wayside.  I know about that, and I know that  reliving those moments was hard for Peter.<br />My motivation for reading this  book is simply that &quot;It was lying in my path.&quot;  As a result of  the reading, I learned that a certain experience I had was not unique.   ('Can't tell you what it is, though.  The importance of this particular  message is not for everyone.)<br />As an affecting, personal accounting of a  troubling time in our nation's history, I am driven to give this book my  highest rating.  You will have to decide for yourself if you agree with my  judgement.	2000-06-12
US	52515394	R3RHKY14ICFUTQ	038071339X	571510645	The Monkey Wrench Gang	Books	4	3	10	N	N	&quot;We have met the enemy, and he is us.&quot;	I view Abbey the writer much as I would view Hitchcock as a director.  Both always seem somewhat amateurish when I look at their products the their final form.  Abbey provides only the character development he deems  necessary to get his point across.  (That issue alone could spark the  writing of volumes - see &quot;Coyote in the Maze - Tracking Edward Abbey  in a World of Words&quot;).<br />That most reviews here seem to have missed  the point may indicate a weakness on Abbey's part, (as well as the  reader's.)  Even so, it doesn't detract from the message itself.  There are  important things to be learned in this work about the relationship of human  with machine, but I'm not going to tell you what they are.  I will say  this: If you think this book is strictly about a battle between  environmentalists and developers, you need to go back and read it  again.<br />This book comes packaged in a suspenseful, exciting yarn, that  entertains on several levels.  And it's no surprise that for some, the  question of &quot;Why rage against the machine?&quot; is not adequately  answered.  For those of you interested in exploring further, I recommend  reading some other works by Abbey, in particular &quot;Desert  Solitaire&quot;, before reading this one.  You won't regret the time spent.	2000-06-09
US	52515394	R3GSTFWV15Q4A1	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	3	2	13	N	N	Thoughts become thoughtless stone	So many books have been written about Zen, and so many reviewers have waxed prolific on the values of Zen, I'll not waste my time doing that myself. Suffice to say that this particular book was never intended by  Shunryu Suzuki to be a book, and as such, it's probably close to the  perfect book for anyone wishing to delve into the awareness of mind that  Zen represents.  This book could easily represent the spearhead of the  invasion of the western world by a unique, eastern thought process.  It is  also the comfortable image of warm wood and wisdom at your door.<br />At  first, when I touched on &quot;Right Practice&quot;, I was disappointed.  For my interpretation of Zen requires no practice.  It's not about  practice.  And yet, I understand after reading what Master Suzuki was  getting at.  In order to break the back of your old practices that lead to  the busy, reactive world, you need other mechanisms.  They could be  anything, so long as they lead down the path of self-awareness and  balance.<br />He says it: chanting and meditation will not get you there.  Yet  I suspect that &quot;practice&quot; will always get more publicity than the  intended result.  In this capitalistic age, meditation classes sell, but  having a Zen state of mind is totally antipodal to making money.<br />Still,  reading this book cannot hurt.  Perhaps in your case, thought will not  become thoughtless stone...	2000-06-08
US	52515394	RPG0BNLDXNDK3	0380711117	304604713	Giving Birth to Thunder, Sleeping with His Daughter: Coyote Builds North America	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Hairball &quot;Roots&quot;	Lopez heralds a message to our so-called &quot;modern&quot; Judeo-christian culture from the stone-age past:  You can't separate the good from the bad.  Coyote resembles nothing short of an agent of Bacchus,  welding god-like powers of creation, with basal human desires and  weaknesses.<br />In his anthology, Lopez has focused strictly on the Coyote of  Native American lore, and thus has attempted to filter out most of the more  modern interpretations and spin-offs, as well as removing any european  influences.  The observation that Lopez was not entirely successful in this  effort shows the difficulty of such a task.  The last story, &quot;Coyote  Finishes His Work&quot;, shows a distinctly &quot;Euro-christian&quot;  influence.  However, Lopez was at least successful enough to distinguish  this piece from Bright's &quot;Coyote Reader&quot;.  Both are excellent  works, and deserve your eye.	2000-06-08
US	52515394	R1DD0UJ0UQL78H	0879979941	651244783	The Warriors of Dawn	Books	4	1	1	N	N	deeper than you know	This was my introduction to the works of M. A. Foster.  His depth of character construction, and interweaving of complex yet believable patterns is a style I would like to emulate as a writer myself.  As highly as I rate  this book, &quot;Gameplayers&quot; is even better, and the Morphodite  series is absolutely fascinating.  You won't be disappointed, unless you  have failed as a reader to plumb the true depths of this fantasy.  It is  deeper than you know.	2000-06-07
US	52515394	R2YNN9L41CWWSW	0886770955	31369202	Preserver	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of Foster's best	See reviews of \\"The Morphodite\\".  This is the end game of the Morphodite series, as our assassin, morphed to a form too young to remember, gradually becomes aware of his unique identity and power.  His  ultimate awareness of motivating forces beyond human ken, and how he decides to play out the final scenes, are moving.  And they hint at a depth of  writing talent far exceeding the genre of \\"Sci Fi\\".  This book  will make you think as well as dream.	2000-06-07
US	52515394	R1F2BG5TV6NGRS	0345326490	316822403	Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Read it and weep	Abbey receives a sympathy vote from me for several reasons:  This is one of his first works, and it's also the first one of his that I read.  But my review here is based upon re-reading the work almost 20 years  later.<br />Edward Abbey is a man at home with himself.  One gets the  impression reading Desert Solitaire that he is always by himself, even  though he was married, and had several children.  I've no doubt he was a  loner, and the ideal world he portrays is one where Abbey travels the world  alone with nature - talking to snakes, chasing wild horses and cows, and  observing nature's interplay, far from the meddling influences of humanity.   As a ranger in utah, he views the intruding, artificial world of we  termite-people with disdain.  As a writer, he builds on this and other  themes in a matter-of-fact, yet deeply challenging way.  This is the style  of writing he came to be known so well for in his later  works.<br />Environmentalists like to claim Abbey as their spokesman, and  Abbey definitely gave the appearance of a nature-lover.  But I'm more  inclined to think of him as a &quot;human-hater&quot;.  I think he knew  deep-down that humans are nature's spawn, and nature has always been  powerless to be pro-active in perserving its various features.  Nothing is  sacred, including the wonderful architecture of the Colorado Plateau.   Abbey was deeply in love with the alone-ness that the area represented to  him, and was every bit as deeply angered by the ever-increasing ranks of  people intent on despoiling it.  If that's an environmentalist, then so be  it.  But in Desert Solitaire, there is never any pretense that man and  desert could ever be compatible.  Indeed, if there is any point to be made,  it is exactly the opposite.<br />You'll find it tough being the bad guy.  Nevertheless, it'll be every bit as hard to put this book down.  Read it  and weep.	2000-05-30
US	52515394	R9CTKI5306T0Y	1573226564	99488062	Buddhism Without Beliefs: A Contemporary Guide to Awakening	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Does Buddha Have Buddha Nature?	Stephen Batchelor makes a strong case for agnostic Buddhism.  According to Batchelor, the Buddha himself probably would not recognize his modern-day acolytes.  Batchelor's research turns back the clock to Buddha's own time,  and finds a documented case of a man subjecting himself to psycho-analysis.   &quot;What are the causes of human suffering, and how can I avoid  them?&quot;  These kinds of questions bear little resemblance to the  mysticism we associate today with Buddhism.  Nontheless they are timeless  and profound.  And Buddha's answers are, as Batchelor suggests, something  we can all apply to our own lives, regardless of our various mystical  adherences.<br />As this and many of the reviews here suggest, this book is a  great read.  Now, if only Jesus had kept a diary...	2000-05-30
US	52515394	R2ZAZAHHMQK97A	1568492596	763906632	Journey to Ixtlan	Books	3	38	46	N	N	You can never go home again...	The question with regard to Carlos Casteneda is this:  If we accept the premise that this book is largely fiction, does that in turn trivialize the message he is trying to impart?  Just what is his message?  If the message  is that the world is full of witches, sorcerers, irridescent coyotes,  allies, and phantoms, then the answer must be an unqualfied  &quot;yes&quot;.  These entities are no more real, and have no more  importance than angels and miracles, zombies, ghosts, or anything else  whose existence cannot be objectively observed.  However, despite the cult  that has grown up around these writings, I don't think this is what  Casteneda had in mind.  Don Juan warned against being trapped in the world  of sorcery, just as he did against getting trapped in the world of everyday  concerns.  It was when Carlos, the character, realized that he and the dung  beetle were on even terms, even though their sensory worlds were profoundly  different, that he was finally able to &quot;stop the world&quot;.  The  warrior, says don Juan, takes responsibility for his life, and interacts  with every event as if it is his last.  Moreover, once one makes the  transition to the path of knowledge, one can never go back.   &quot;Ixtlan&quot; is by definition childhood's home that one can never  return to.  These are timeless and profound concepts, that transcend the  venue of leaping shadows and bridges in the fog.  <br />Casteneda is an  unusual writer, and his insistence on portraying his character as an  annoying whiner gets a little wearing after a while.  The two messages I  found in this work - that the world is much more than appears, and that it  is important not to sleepwalk through our lives - these concepts never wear  thin for me.  And the observation that our modern man can learn these  lessons from a superstitious old Yaqui is endlessly gratifying to  me.<br />There are many ways to get to the place that Casteneda is trying to  show us, and therefore I can't place this volume in the &quot;must  read&quot; category.  But the concepts have value, and you won't regret the  effort in getting to the last page.	2000-05-28
US	52515394	RXIDJSP4T7TG9	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	5	26	37	N	N	&quot;Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain...&quot;	I'm tempted not to bother writing a review here, simply because most of what I would say has already been said:  The true value of a myth lies in the lesson imparted behind the words; If you believe the words of a myth,  you destroy it; All myths have a common origin in the complex behavior  patterns that are humanity.  It would be quite human of me to lavish praise  on Campbell, and say that he is one of the great minds of the 20th Century,  and I might even be right in doing so.  But ultimately I don't think that's  what Campbell would have wanted.  More, I think that he, along with other  great minds, wish to impart an understanding that reason can never be found  within words, only behind them.  Only by being on that path can we gain  something meaningful from the book, but then we are forced to say also that  the book itself is meaningless.  And it's true:  There are many books that  can teach us the same things, and yet there are many who will never learn  this lesson, no matter what they read.<br />The real value this book had for  me is that I know I am not alone.  There are others who have travelled the  lonely path, and I can do nothing better than to examine their footprints  in history.  Don't iconize Campbell.  Pay no attention to the man behind  the curtain.  But do follow his signposts, of which there are plenty in  this well-written manuscript.	2000-05-26
US	52515394	R3P6UU3IS0Z85Q	0684802716	35033942	Coyote Medicine: Lessons from Native American Healing	Books	3	30	52	N	N	Is there a doctor in the house?	Let's not get too mushy about this book.  I agree that it has its message about spiritual aspects to healing, and that modern medicine ain't the godsend that seems to justify all the faith people put in it.  But I want  to  point out a couple of things:  First of all Mehl-Madrona's spirituality  is not pure native american by any stretch of the imagination.  I would be  generous if I said it was a combination of native american and christian  beliefs.  Second, and more important, the &quot;healing&quot; that he  claims occured was never proven medically.  There's no official results  shown before or after the &quot;treatment&quot; that indicates there was  indeed a sick person that became well.  You're just taking Lewis's word for  it, and the truth of the matter is that I doubt it - I read it and I doubt  it.<br />I'm all in favor of getting in touch with our spiritual nature, and I  do believe that good medicine requires strong direction from the patient as  to the course of the cure.  The kidney patients in the beginning of the  book are a prime example of how &quot;medicine&quot; can go bad when it  takes it's own unmanaged course.  I applaud Mehl-Madrona for writing about  that.  But oddly, he exudes powerlessness throughout the entire book.   There are many such inconsistencies here, so be forewarned.<br />I think that  in summary I have to say that the Coyote he claims to know is not the one I  am familiar with.  Nevertheless, for what it's worth, I liked it.	2000-05-26
US	52515394	R1YL9TEY21K5Y4	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	178	191	N	N	A view from a high peak	As a novice in the world of formal philosophy, I was entirely grateful for the existence of this book.  Russell offers not only an expansive view of western philosophy within rigorous historical context, but manages to  convey much of his own philosophy within his critiques.  I came, over time,  to look at this book as more an expression of Russell's philosophy in  relation to the entire course of western thought.  How could it be anything  different?  Russell's perspective is, however well-informed, quite  one-sided.  So much so that the individual philosophers he takes on have no  hope of a fair trial.  However much I agree with him about Nietzsche,  Russell does not even attempt to be fair.  Better to appreciate this book  for what it is:  a personal view.  As such, it is quite expansive, and if  you need to know more about western philosophy, you'll easily fill in the  missing pieces if you start here.  But don't run away hurt if your favorite  philosopher gets short shrift - I also find myself disagreeing with Russell  in many areas.  Instead, as you read, try to keep what he accomplishes here  separate from how he does it.  This is truly a great work, and downplaying  its importance because of skipping or riding some particular fellow would  be like criticizing the Great Wall of China because they used sub-par  mortar.  Here is a journey through history through the eyes of one great  man.  Keep yours open and you may learn something.	2000-03-06
US	52515394	R2MH33VJDZWNO5	0874805635	786909894	Coyote In The Maze: Tracking Edward Abbey in a World of Words	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Like Flame...	Here lies proof of the theory that the soul of a writer propogates beyond into the heart of the reader.  It's rare that I give a book 5 stars, but this anthology, a picture taken some years after Edward Abbey's death, show  his ideas and methods are still very much alive.  Some of the authors  herein have chosen the path of analysis, and Coyote slips by.  He's hard to  find, but not for lack of trying.  Others have chosen to 'become' rather  than to 'seek', and here's where the real fun begins.  <br />I'll not give all  the secrets away.  It's much more enjoyable to find them for yourself.  But  I will say one thing:  I had a revelation while reading this book, and  despite Abbey's Nietzshean roots, I hold him closer now and with greater  respect, after reading this book.	2000-02-25
US	52515394	RV5JARU76ZDOW	0520080629	159833933	A Coyote Reader	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Coyote, Straight - No Chaser	As Bright samples the spectrum of Coyote tales (tails?), in his &quot;no punches pulled&quot; fashion, one becomes aware of a continuity of spirit, pervasive in the telling, from the ancient native legends to the modern Zen  adaptions.   Perhaps with knowledge aforethought, Bright has surfaced a  grey feature of humankind, dogging us through the ages:  As we try to be  &quot;good&quot;, Coyote assures us that there is no such thing.  Watered  down versions of these stories would entirely miss this connection, and it  is to Bright's credit that we receive our Coyote &quot;Straight - No  Chaser&quot;.<br />Other more familiar aspects of the Coyote folklore, such as  the &quot;everything-you-do-will- come-back-to-you&quot; moral, are  intelligently presented here in a very readable fashion. Bright attempts to  present the stories in as much of an original form as he can.  He rightly  believes that form here is as important as content.  The resulting mix of  commentary, prose, and poetry is hard to put down!<br />I gave Bright 4 stars,  because there's room for improvement, and I can only hope that an updated  version of this book may someday appear.  I felt that the Zen portion was  handled too lightly, but it may simply be that the Coyote legend progresses  a little too fast to be captured properly at any given time.  Let this book  begin your journey into discovering the true Coyote, which lies within you.	2000-02-11
US	52515394	R2YT7AR4AR8683	026216180X	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence against the New Creationism	Books	4	19	25	N	N	A well-written book in search of an audience	This book has been something of a wake-up call for me.  Having grown up within the scientific community, I've always ignored the creationist movement, thinking it to be backward, rigid, and generally unwilling to  accept a future with the changing face of humanity.  In other words: headed  for extinction.  Pennock shows the battle creationist are waging in its  complete form, outside the venue of the scientific community, in the courts  and the schools.  The threat to our children and to society at large, is  not one to be taken lightly.  The point Pennock makes here is not lost on  me.  And in this arena, the book is clearly targeted toward those such as  myself, who accept the theory of evolution as a powerful and  well-integrated part of the scientific view of the universe, but may be  unaware of the color and scope of the attacks being made against it.<br />But  as interesting as the chapter on language evolution was, I wondered why it  was there.  Indeed, I believe Pennock is preaching to the choir here.  I  think his time would have been better spent showing us how to deal more  effectively with this menace to freedom.  Pennock is far too passive.<br />I  also feel that he missed a couple of great swipes at the creationists.  He  could have investigated their motivations from a psychological perspective.   This is, after all, a territorial dispute - science is making incursions  into areas once held by religion, and some people must feel very threatened  by that.  Another point he failed to hammer home is the relationship  between science and technology.  Without the scientific method in its  present form, technological advances would be profoundly impacted.  And  with the creationists use of modern technologies, such as  telecommunications, they appear as parasites on the back of  science.<br />Perhaps in the name of political correctness, Pennock made some  small sacrifices in the hope of expanding his audience to those who might  be sitting on a fence withregard to this issue.  I can only hope that this  is so.  To those of you who are fence-sitters, I can only promise that  Pennock has gone out of his way to speak as truthfully as possible about  the scientific position.  Everything contained in this book can be backed  up by observation, which is something that Phillip Johnson, representing  the creationist camp, cannot claim.  Everyone's best interests can be  served by reading this book.  And I sincerely recommend it.	2000-01-03
US	52515394	R3TSDW7WFZMY18	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	266	300	N	N	Escape from predestination	It seems highly appropriate that Douglas Hofstatder should re-release his epic work now.  His central theme plays so eloquently in this place and time: Every system folds in on itself, be it physics, mathematics, or any  form of language.  All these systems are inherently self-referential, and  as such, take on a life of their own.  A life their creators could never  imagine. Many reviewers have focused on the explicit messages of the book,  their likes or dislikes, but the great beauty of this work lies within the  realm of what it does not say.  It is, no doubt, the most difficult book I  have ever read, and I have to admit it took me several false starts to  finally get through the thing.  It is so incredibly deep - one cannot  simply wade through it like a sci-fi novel.  But if you take your time,  spend, say about a year on it - work through the TNT exercises, discover  the hidden messages the author has left, read the bibliography - and at  some point it will strike you; the incredible richness of the message.  The  book, you, the world, all of it IS open.  The pages of this universe are  blank, unwritten.  Dr. Hofstadter has woven a message of eternal optimism,  one that transcends even the infinite depth to the tapestry of topics  spread before us:  The great freedom that we, nature's most remarkable  matrix, are part of a future without destiny.  Even if we were created, any  purpose impressed upon us is lost in a cacophany of unexpected  relationships.  Deterministic, yet infinitely complex and unpredictable.   We can never understand anything completely, and thus every life can  experience the magic of observing that which cannot be explained.  This is  a book of wonders, and you will never regret the time you spent on it.	1999-12-14
US	52515394	RV4E4RI1RHRVX	0345430093	495583167	Rocks of Ages - Science and Religion in the Fullness of Life (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	11	29	N	N	&quot;NOMA&quot;n's land	Try as I might, I can find no redeeming features to this book.  In the best of all worlds, I can imagine wise and thoughtful spiritualists peacefully coexisting with sensitive scientists, each honoring the part the  other has to play in the grand scheme.  But I am completely ignoring human  nature when I do, as is Gould in this apparently shameless bid to capture  our dollars.<br />We live in a world dominated by institutionalized everything  - specifically institutionalized science, and institutionalized  spirituality (which we call &quot;religion&quot;).  If Dr. Gould left these  institutions behind, and focused on the basic inquisitiveness of the human  spirit, he might find opportunities for peaceful co-existence if not  outright co-habitance.  But this book is not about that.  Gould sets  science and religion side-by-side, and places an arbitrary wall between  them - an invitation to conflict.  Both these institutions consider the  entire universe to be their rightful property.  <br />So-called  &quot;NOMA&quot; might work as a personal choice, whereby scientists raised  in an orthodox religious environment can create, if they desire, a  semblance of peace in their schizophrenic view of the universe.  But to  apply this model to group behavior is indefensable.  And Gould doesn't even  try.<br />One is left wondering, &quot;Is this truly one of the great minds of  our time?&quot;  But I'll be kind and simply say that this book is unworthy  of the author's capabilities.	1999-12-14
US	52515394	R2KZOCVT6VJOWL	0671724991	535220274	LUCY: THE BEGINNINGS OF HUMANKIND	Books	3	15	22	N	N	A Cautious &quot;Thumb's Up&quot;	Dr. Johanson shows both his strengths and weaknesses in this largely enthralling look at risks and rewards of paleoanthropology.  His expertise in hominid development comes well-wrapped in the role of storyteller.  And  his experiences in the field are a story worth telling.   Johanson  disappoints when he steps outside his field of expertise.  For instance,  his chapter on radiometric dating is riddled with inaccuracies.  And  &quot;Is It A Matter Of Sex?&quot; is intrinsically flawed in its  discussion of evolutionary &quot;strategies.&quot; Overall a great book and  a good read!	1999-07-07
