US	52510659	R2ZWJ055ZZ38IZ	0451215885	22216867	Twin Peril (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Excellent character driven romance... BUT	Briefly - this Regency romance develops the courtship of Lady Deborah(daughter of the Marquess of Kesteven and one of a pair of identical twins) and Michael Winslow, Duke of Fairfax, a somewhat diffident, average looking man who has agreed to marry to placate his grandmother who has raised him after his father's death. A very standard plot, however I was charmed to find that Deborah and Michael had both decided to marry someone who cared for them as a \\"person\\". In Deborah's case, this means a man who can tell her apart from her identical twin, Diana. In Michael's case, this means a woman who can see the man behind the title and wealth. The social situation is very realistic: both hero and heroine are looking for a \\"peer\\" in social status terms - no tricked up Cinderella story challenging believability; the courtship takes place with a full complement of chaperones as appropriate. All in all a very enjoyable read until the end....when I was left wondering \\"what happened\\" ??? <br /> <br />The problem is that Twin Peril takes place in parallel with the events in a previous novel which I have not read (I figured this out from reading the reviews of A Rake's Redemption), I kept thinking that I came into the middle of the situation and was expected to have more knowledge of the various friends and relations of the heroine and hero. For the most part this was only a vague thought that did not detract from my enjoyment until the ending of the book where the reader is left hanging without a clue as to what happens to the bad guy, the heroine's friend, and even the heroine's sister. It really spoiled what would have otherwise been a solid 4 star read. I also would have loved to have a description of the musicale....It's a great pity that due to page length constraints in this genre, the ending had to be so rushed and unsatisfactory. <br /> <br />My recommendation, if you have read The Rake's Redemption - you will very much enjoy this book, provided you like character driven romances. There is very little \\"action\\" in the plot. If you haven't, then you will, like me, enjoy the main part of the book and be disappointed by the ending.	2005-08-22
US	52510659	R3LRPZ5ILMV608	082177851X	258546044	Just Say Yes (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Delightful debut	Thanks to Amazon's review system and \\"Friends and Favorites\\", I bought this delightful regency novel, when I might otherwise not have done so. <br /> <br />Although the plot is basic and not filled with much action, the well written and developed main characters, a beautifully drawn setting, some humor, and a fair amount of realism on the part of the hero, Geoffrey, and heroine, Cassie make this novel a delight to read.  <br /> <br />Geoffrey Dorrington, Earl of Cheriton and heir to the Duke of Passmore, has been rescued from a life of dissipation in London by his brother-in-law Lord Marchbourn, who has taken him back to his country estate and interested him in learning proper estate management. Now Marchbourn has inherited an estate, in the parish of Vicar Hartwell, Cassie's father. Geoffrey, wanting to prove his capabilities, goes to set it order; and because he wants to see what he can accomplish without the deference due to his title, styles himself plain Mr. Dorton, land steward.  <br /> <br />Neither Geoffrey nor Cassie is expecting the attraction they feel, and the plot develops as we watch them cope with it. The tension arises because Geoffrey knows that Cassie, as a country vicar's daughter is \\"unsuitable\\" as a potential bride for the heir to a dukedom and does his best to behave in an honorable fashion given this reality. Cassie, believing that Geoffrey is a land steward, sees no impediment in developing her acquaintance with him, except for the interfering ways of her mother. Her mother is pushing the claims of the local squire's nephew and heir, Rodney who Cassie knew as a teenager and disliked intensely; Rodney has not improved with age!  Throw in a few dogs, and several interesting secondary characters and proceed to enjoy. <br /> <br />Highly recommended for those who enjoy their romances centered around character and not ACTION. I look forward to subsequent efforts by this author.	2005-08-22
US	52510659	R158U7068P3PRT	0821770438	893168130	Rules Of Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Great historical fiction, not  a romance	If you have an interest in the Regency Period and are looking for a novel set in the middle of the war in the Peninsula, this is the one for you. The time period covered is from the fall of Badajoz until the battle of Toulouse. <br />The author paints a vivid picture of life in the train of Wellington's army - especially for those in the lesser ranks and also of the state of medical practice of the period. Read it for that, and don't expect too much of the romance which is more like the thread tying it together than the main focus of the book. If you are expecting this to be a typical historical romance you will be disappointed. The personal/romance aspect is used to give us a terrific perspective to what would otherwise be dry history.<br />Highly recommended for the history buff.	2004-07-07
US	52510659	R23GJUM2SQOFM7	0451211839	152389042	Skylark (Company of Rogues)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	It all depends	Whether or not you like this book or are disappointed in it all depends on why you like Jo Beverly's books in the first place. If you are a fan because you like her somewhat swashbuckling heroes who are involved in intriguing plots, unusual situations and solve problems for the heroine with derring-do - then you will be disappointed. As you can tell from previous reviews, this is true of a lot of readers who rushed to buy Beverley's latest effort in the Rogue series.<br />However, take heart, those of you who admire Beverley for her well drawn characters and well written prose - you will be pleasantly surprised. Although not her best, it is still a pretty good book and far superior to a lot of Regency stuff being put out these days.<br />The hero of this book is Stephen Ball, MP - one of the Rogues who has only appeared around the edges of several previous books. Given his background and profession (law) he is not given to extravagant actions and showy heroics; just careful plotting and steadfast love for Laura Gardeyne who he nicknamed Lady Skylark based on her life in society with her first husband (fairly recently deceased). <br />The plot of this book is fairly well summarized by wmr-uk's review so I will not repeat it here - and it is correctly characterized as a \\"dramatic\\" one. However the pace of the book is fairly slow and I, for one, found myself a bit impatient for the next step of unraveling the mystery of the missing heir. The strength of the book is in watching Laura develop as a character and in enjoying the cast of secondary characters, especially HG and Des. It is nice to see Nick and Eleanor again; but I could barely remember who David Kerslake was (maybe I didn't finish that book, it being a bit too extravagant in plot for me).<br />My assessment: 3 and a half stars - read the reviews carefully and decide WHY you like Jo Beverley's books before getting this one...	2004-07-02
US	52510659	R3NHM3GCE4FOLH	0060531231	291945801	When He Was Wicked (Bridgertons)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Great character driven romance!	This is the first Quinn book in a long time that I could not put down! Compelling characters wrestling with significant personal issues - no mystery sub-plot or stereotype villains to get in the way of a wonderful romance!<br />Michael Stirling and John, Earl of Kilmartin are first cousins - their fathers were twins. They have been raised almost as brothers because Michael's father dies when he was very young. They were not only raised - as brothers - they have a very strong and deep bond of friendship. Michael has never envied his younger cousin, even though (given the inheritance laws of the period) John has a title and fabulous wealth and Michael is son to a younger son and is destined for a career in the army. That is, Michael has never envied John anything until he meets Francesca Bridgerton and falls instantly in love with her - because she is John's fiancee and will be his wife in a day and a half! <br />The book begins by giving us a glimpse of John and Francesca's extremely happy married life and their mutual friendship with Michael; we also get some insight into his strategy for keeping John and Francesca in ignorance of his feelings (his Merry Rake persona). Quinn makes us really care about John so that when he dies very suddenly we can feel the depth of Francesca's grief and Michael's difficulty in offering her comfort. Far more effective than just reporting something that happens about 4 years before the main part of the book begins. Overwhelmed by grief and guilt Michael takes himself off to India for four years, allowing Francesca to run the estate. <br />Finally Michael returns from India - still very much in love with Francesca, and still convinced that there is something basically &quot;wrong&quot; or &quot;immoral&quot; in courting her himself when she announces that she wants to remarry; it would be a betrayal of his regard for John. These feelings of guilt on both Michael's and Francesca's part are what keeps them from a happy future together and the main body of the book is a tour-de-force of character development as we watch both of them work through their grief to acceptance and peace. All I can say is WOW!<br />The Publisher's Weekly review states that the book is &quot;weighed down&quot; by the grief of the two protagonists. I do not agree! Without the need to work through the grieving process there wouldn't be any tension or barriers to overcome - this is the whole meat of the book!<br />You don't have to be a fan of Quinn's Bridgerton series to love this book, in fact maybe it's better if you are not, then you won't have all these high expectations of what Francesca's character is supposed to be like.	2004-07-02
US	52510659	R1LBKEO9LEQSBV	0385338112	961067040	Slightly Dangerous (Balogh, Mary)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	More than slightly great!	Wulfric's story is Mary Balogh at here best. I loved it!<br />If you want your romance spiced with adventures and high drama, this book is not for you. However it does fit Wulfric perfectly. I would have been very disappointed if he had stepped out of the character and way of life that was established in the earlier \\"Slightly\\" books - he doesn't. <br />In order for Wulfric to meet someone so different from the normal \\"society miss\\" he has to enter a different milieu; Mary Balogh makes his decision to attend a summer house party, something he normally would not do, very believable. There he encounters Christine Derrick, widowed daughter of the local schoolmaster and from the lesser gentry - pretty vivacious, full of humor and love of life - very disconcerting and very attractive. The story of Wulfric and Christine is one of characters that we gradually get to know better as they struggle to understand the attraction between them and decide what to do about it. I was so tied up in enjoying their relationship that I was taken by surprise that there is an actual \\"bad guy\\" in the plot!<br />I also liked the fact that the events in the book took place over a longer period of time - that makes them far more realistic. If I have any quibble it is that the book is not longer - I might have enjoyed knowing what Wulfric and Christine were up to in the months after the house party ended - before they meet again at a Society wedding.<br />You will also very much enjoy catching up with the Bedwyn siblings and their growing families.	2004-06-09
US	52510659	R3GN3FV16KBOH6	0345461983	38213846	Dragon's Kin	Books	4	9	10	N	N	And the beat goes on	As a loooooong time fan of Anne McCaffrey and Pern (I read and loved Dragonflight when it was first published as a novella in Analog, I won't say how many years ago!) I am delighted to read this latest installment and have high hopes of Todd McCaffrey's future efforts. If you are a fan, you will enjoy it; however I do NOT recommend reading this as the first of the Pern books if you are new to them, you will be left scratching your head about a lot of the references.....<br />That's not to say that I can't see some of the flaws that have been mentioned by other reviewers; however they did not detract from my enjoyment. <br />Those of you waiting for a \\"next installment\\" of the main storyline will be disappointed. The setting is a totally new time frame from any of the previous books - after the sophisticated technology of the first colonists has been lost but before the Long Interval so that much knowledge of the original colony still exists. For example dolphins and fire lizards are taken for granted. It takes place during an Interval and although there is no preoccupation with fighting Thread, everyone is quite aware that Thread is coming and what the implications are to the settlements. The main setting is a new mining Camp - where the mining craft is learning to undertake successful deep shaft mining operations as all the surface deposits are depleted.<br />We are introduced to new intelligent animal; the focus of the book is the watch-wher; the descendents of Wind Blossom's failed attempt to duplicate the bio-engineering of dragons. The interaction of man (or in this case young teenagers) and animal and their discovery of each other is vintage McCaffrey style and substance. <br />The two main protagonists: Kindan and Nuella - who are 11 going on 14 in the time span of the novel. The plot involves their \\"coming of age\\" while nurturing and training the Camp's new watch wher. More detail is included in the editorial reviews.<br />There are some fascinating new people to meet besides In my order of preference for wanting to know them better: M'tal, Weyrleader of Benden, Master Harper Zist, J'lantir bronze rider from Ista Weyr. There are several very well drawn minor characters, as well, such as Renilon the wherhandler from somewhere in Lemos. I do not agree with previous reviewers who say the characters are not developed - what I will say is that there are quite a few other minor characters who I wanted to know a lot more about: Miner Natalon (Nuella's father), Christov (son of the bad guy), Dalor (Nuella's brother) and Kindan's friend Zenor and his sister Jenna. The young age of the protagonists is nothing new - e.g  Menolly, Piemur (Harper Hall novels), Readis (Dolphins of Pern), or even Lessa way back when it all started with Dragonflight. <br />Here's what I didn't like:<br />There are several continuity errors that a good editor should have found - towards the end a couple of the youngsters are said to have been born at Camp Natalon - when it was established only six months before the novel opens. The worst of these continuity problems is the knowledge, or lack thereof, about whether or not the whers can go between; this subject was treated in a very fuzzy fashion. <br />The book feels a little \\"thin\\" in places. I wanted to know more about what had happened before this novel opens - we were given hints but no details about what had happened to Tarik's mine or Master Zist's wife and daughter. Very unsatisfying. Also there could have been more details sometimes as the plot unfolded. Other books in the Pernese series have been written from several varying points of view - this one could have benefited using the same technique - for example, I would have liked to read about the dragon riders efforts at watch-wher education as they took place and not hear an account after the fact. Yes, I know that some readers find the multiple viewpoints very distracting; I've always loved the technique and wish this book had more of it.<br/>In summary - a must for fans of Pern; keep writing Todd and Anne, please!	2003-12-24
US	52510659	R24CZ796IGUFHJ	1551666510	989112521	The Harbor (MIRA)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Very average - the town is the star here	This is the first book I have read by Carla Neggers and it may be my last. The story has been pretty well summarized by previous reviewers so I won't repeat that here.<br />I found Ms Neggers creation of the little harbor town in Maine (not Vermont) to be very compelling. It was almost like being there on a terrific visit. This and the fairly fast paced mystery kept me reading to the end.<br />Unfortunately, I found the characters sort of static. Both the hero, JB and the heroine, Zoe were drawn very well - with lots of unresolved personal issues that had tons of potential for development; alas, that's all it was: &quot;potential&quot;, very little character development took place.<br />I also enjoyed watching the mystery unfold, although I twigged the probable villan early on - due to lack of believable alternatives. There were lots of potential suspects, but most - to me at least - were too sterotyped to be the real bad guy. <br />What really turned me off - and why I probably won't read any more books by this author - is that the motive for the crime came out of &quot;left field&quot;. Unless I missed something pretty subtle, there were no clues to be followed. Which is pretty ironic, when Zoe muses on why she enjoys her deceased Great Aunt Olivia's books so much: the &quot;basic premise&quot; behind them is that &quot;Jan Periwinkle&quot; - Great Aunt Olivia's fictional detective - solved her mysteries &quot;by following clues&quot;!<br />Ah well - at least I finished it; I have no desire whatsoever to re-read it though and for me that's what makes a keeper.	2003-10-08
US	52510659	R6OQ4I0R5YB4F	0821775324	481291058	One Night With A Rogue (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A little reality please -	Generally I enjoy anthologies and am willing to forgo deep character development which is not something that is easily done in the shorter format of 90 to 120 pages or so. Also, I am partial to \\"rogues\\" - so why the two star rating? I found myself very bothered by the lack of understanding of the Regency period displayed to some extent by all the authors! <br />**Lady Jane's Lover - Candace McCarthy**- Jane Graham, niece of an Earl, acting as his daughter's companion, is stranded when said daughter runs away with the \\"coachman\\"! Ambushed and then rescued by a passing horseman who is wounded in the action- the rest of the story involves Jane nursing her rescuer back to health in a convenient (and unexplained) well stocked empty \\"cottage\\". Turns out she knew him from her childhood. I actually liked Jane and Broc and enjoyed their relationship - however I found it impossible to believe that 1) Broc (son of a Baron) had been cast off by his father because of an amorous adventure (his father might have paid her off IF he believed her) that 2) Jane would not have been severely blamed for her cousin's actions by her aunt and uncle and 3) that said cousin would expect ever to be forgiven for her action, let alone be accepted..... ah well. Plus titles were a bit muddled. (one star)<br />**Beyond Temptation - Linda Madl** - Eden Roseby youngest of seven daughters of a clergyman has (as the youngest) been Chosen to care for her clergyman father in his old age. Arranges a single night of passion with an initially reluctant \\"rake\\" - Anthony, Viscount Romleigh. The romance between Anthony and Eden is well done; Eden's father is unexpectedly intriguing and likeable. Problem? Mr Roseby is the brother of a Duke - so he is really the Rev Lord James Roseby - why doesn't he use his title? Never explained. Also the villain of the piece is the local baronet who controls the vicar's living and threatens him with losing it. I don't think so!!! If one's brother was a Duke, the ducal familywould have arranged the living! Just do away with this connection and the story would be a lot more believable. The \\"duel\\" is a treat!!! (two stars)<br />**Night of Seduction - Debbie Raleigh** - Charity Malone, spinster daughter to a scholar, long time friend to Anthony Lord Caldwell - occasional neighbor (when he wants to escape society) wants to find a way to comfort him when he starts drinking heavily and threatening suicide on blaming himself for his younger brother's death. She accidentally catches his attention when he finds her in his garden \\"veiled in the mist\\" and doesn't recognize her.... Once I could get beyond the improbability that Charity and Anthony had ever developed a friendship - this is a pretty good read. Charity's background and situation (as daughter staying at home to care for her father) are realistic and matter of fact; also Charity recognizes her feelings for Anthony are largely (in the beginning) based on the fact that she has met no other really eligible gentlemen. She also has a perfectly good reason for sneaking through Anthony's garden in the dead of night! (three and a half stars)	2003-06-20
US	52510659	R2MJGKCFODALK8	0440241057	429766150	Slightly Wicked (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Not sure it is a keeper	Second in the Bedwyn series, this is the story of Lord Rannulf, third sone of the Duke of Bewcastle and Judith Law, soon to be \\"poor relation\\" in her aunt's house. <br />Somehow I didn't like this book as much as Slightly Married. There's nothing wrong with the plot; even if it's a bit predictable. Poor heroine meets hero \\"on the road\\" in unusual situation - night of passion ensues with assumed identities - and we spend the rest of the book sorting things out as the H/H discover themselves in their true personas. <br />However, I tend to judge a book by it's characters and character development and I didn't find what I was looking for in this book.<br />Unlike a previous reviewer, I can understand Judith's dilemma as the poor relation (her situation was far too common at that time); and I enjoyed reading about the interplay between Judith, her aunt and her cousin Julianne and especially her grandmother. I also enjoyed watching Judith discover her own appeal and beauty (suppressed by her family). Her brother, however, is a stereotypical spoiled brat.<br />Rannulf, however, came across to me as somewhat shallow. I do not understand why he had been allowed to carry on in such an irresponsible manner during his twenties. As the third son, he was expected to enter some profession and it is mentioned in passing that he had been destined for the church but decided against it - OK, I can understand that he might be allowed to do that, but why wasn't he made to choose something else; at the very least he should have been learning how to care for his presumed inheritance. And yes, he finally wakes up to this responsibility in the course of the book - but he's 28 for heaven's sake! (I expect I'll have just as much trouble with Allyene who doesn't seem to do anything either!)  So, although he's handsome, honorable (once he discovers Judith's true identity) and very loving to h is grandmother, I just never \\"took\\" to him.<br />I enjoyed reading this book, but I'm not sure it's akeeper.	2003-06-11
US	52510659	R1FYX8RVXZXRFB	0440241111	729777684	Slightly Scandalous	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best Bedwyn book so far	Wow - I wasn't sure that even Mary Balogh could make Lady Freyja Bedwyn someone I would like as a heroine; but she did it in spades!<br />We have seen Lady Freyja in 'Summer to Remember' and the two previous Bedwyn books and know her as a tomboy (hoyden), not pretty (how can she be with the family hooked nose) and we have had hints that she is far more vulnerable than surface appearances might suggest. 'Slightly Scandalous' lets us enjoy watching her deal with her past and her insecurities, this kind of character development the Balogh does extremely well and which I thoroughly enjoy.<br />Briefly, the book starts when Lady Freyja is on her way to Bath - to escape the family home during the celebration of Kit and Lauren's (Summer to Remember) first child - and meets the charming and bold Joshua Moore (Marquess of Hallmere) who is escaping the clutches of a fortune hunting \\"young miss\\" who is trying to compromise him. This hilarious (to us the reader!) encounter ends with considerable misunderstanding on the part of our H/H. Watching them meet again in Bath and get acquainted is delicious. I especially liked the \\"big scene\\" in the Pump Room. Besides learning about the people, we get an excellent \\"portrait\\" of Bath as a slightly passé summer retreat for Society.<br />Enter Joshua's aunt (the villain of the piece) and her grand scheme to coerce her nephew into marrying his cousin Constance (her eldest daughter) just to keep control of the estate and money.  Joshua and Freyja enter into a mock betrothal to foil her plans, with all sorts of ramifications! ( I found it a bit hard to swallow the characterization of Lady Hallmere - but was able to suspend  judgment to further the \\"plot\\".)<br />Our protagonists then move back to the Bedwyn family home due to the intervention of Wulfric, the Duke (who else).  Here we are treated to a glimpse of family life and see Freyja begin to face her true feelings about Kit.  Further machinations on the part of Lady Hallmere (she dreamsup an accusation of murder against Joshua) move Joshua, Freyja, Lord Alleyne and Lady Morgan all to Cornwall and Joshua's estate. There is not a great deal of tension or mystery involved; Joshua pretty competently sorts everything out. There are, however, some excellently drawn secondary characters in this part of the book for example, Joshua's younger cousin Prudence (who is mentally handicapped) and even the deceased Albert.<br />All in all a book rich in character -best of the three Bedwyn books so far.  I recommended it	2003-06-11
US	52510659	R35FF5FEG34WPV	0821774212	207526336	Just In Time (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Timely return to form	Just at a time when I had almost given up on Judith Lansdowne along comes this book. Gone are the multiple confusing plot lines and incomplete characterizations that marred My Fair Quiggly and Shall We Dance.  Although not as good as Amelia's Intrigue or Camilla's Fate - two of my favorites by Lansdowne, this one is well worth reading.  I'm not sure it is a keeper - though. The book seems to me to be \\"setting a stage\\" for the next in the series, painting a background of a location and introducing us to the characters.<BR><BR>These characters are very well done, especially the Duke and his much younger sister, Hannah; although you should be aware that the primary romance in this book involves the older couple, the Duke's recently widowed mother and the newly appointed clergyman, Richard Dempsey. My favorite of all is Theophilous the hound!<BR><BR>I found that the plot - which involves solving the mystery surrounding the late Duke's death to be less than engrossing, although it served as a device to show the growth of the characters. I like books that tell the story from multiple points of view, as this one does; however, the switches are occasionally abrupt. The motivation of the villain (who is pretty obvious) is one dimensional, in my opinion. I also would have liked a bit more background about Richard's life between when he was a child and the \\"present\\" as represented by this book. For more details on the plot see the review by tregatt below.	2003-05-02
US	52510659	R3T434C29NBE16	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	5	28	31	N	N	True to form	I am a fan of Mary Balogh's books in general and very much like those that are interrelated; thus, I am very pleased to be starting a new series - this one that involves the Bedwyn family: The Duke of Bewcastle and his 2 brothers and 2 sisters.<br /><br />First in the series, the hero is Colonel Lord Aidan Bedwyn the second son; he has served in the army since age 18. We first meet him making a promise to a dying subordinate to see that his sister is protected \\"no matter what\\". The promise sends Lord Aidan off to Ringwood Manor where he meets Miss Eve Morris. Daughter of a coal miner (who bought his way into the landed gentry) she was raised as a lady, is fiercely independent, and collects \\"lame ducks\\".  Eve needs to be \\"protected\\" from her small-minded rather nasty cousin Cecil - and to do that Aidan must marry her to fulfill a condition in her father's will. So begins a \\"marriage of convenience\\".<br /><br />In Balogh's talented hands, this well used \\"plot\\" becomes the vehicle whereby we watch the two main characters discover the depths of each other's character and gradually fall in love. Unlike another reviewer, I did not find this book to be \\"light hearted romance\\" but something a lot better. As I very much prefer romance stories that are character driven to those that depend on an \\"exciting\\" (and too often improbable) plot, Slightly Married is a definite winner for me. Don't get me wrong, there is tension and conflict here, but it mainly involves Eve and her learning to cope with the Bedwyn family and their mode of life. Balogh's firm grasp of the Regency time period is a definite asset here.<br /><br />Along the way we meet and learn a few things about the two youngest members of the family and learn quite a bit more about Lady Freyja and the Duke. I must admit that I am already wondering how the Duke's story will unfold! In the last chapter we are introduced to Lord Ralf who will feature in the next book - unlike a previous reviewer, I was not bothered by this.<br /><br />In summary - if you want your romance story driven by an exciting and fast moving plot with a clear cut villain, then you will likely be somewhat disappointed in Slightly Married. However if you, like me, prefer romances featuring multi-faceted characters with depth, faults as well as virtues, then I highly recommend this book.In summary - if you want your romance story driven by an exciting and fast moving plot with a clear cut villain, then you will likely be somewhat disappointed in Slightly Married. However if you, like me, prefer romances featuring multi-faceted characters with depth, faults as well as virtues, then I highly recommend this book.	2003-05-02
US	52510659	R3TLJZFCP96BY6	0451168747	912841957	Autumn Rose (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Excellent Regency - with a minor annoyance	If you are looking for a good Regency genre author - look no further - too bad these are out of print. This is the second book in a group of related novels - the first is \\"Miss Ware's Refusal\\" and \\"Lady Barbara's Dilemma\\" comes after this one. I don't know if there are more - I'm still looking. I strongly recommend reading them in order if at all possible.<BR> Let's get my minor annoyance out of the way - it's one of my pet peeves - why don't they get the title's right? This one is a bit more subtle than some - one of the heroes is Jeremy Whitford, Earl of Alverstone. However he is referred to throughout the book incorrectly as Lord Whitford instead of Lord Alverstone (and his mother as Lady Whitford). In contrast the other hero is Marcus Samuel Vane, Viscount Alcand and MOST of the time he is CORRECTLY called Lord Alcand - though I think he becomes Lord Vane in the next book!!! Arrrgh! I finally had to put this aside and enjoy the people - and they are well worth it.<BR> <BR>This is the story of Honora (Nora) Dillon and her daughter Miranda who live outside London (in Hampstead) where Nora supports herself by writing popular novels - they live simply, and the description of their home, etc is very well done. We are privy to Nora's background of privilege and her emotions and actions (running away with Miranda's father) when her mother dies and father remarries through a short prolog, though her daughter is not. Enter hero number one, Jeremy, who assists Miranda home after she is shaken up rescuing a child from a carriage accident. Jeremy and Miranda become friends and then secretly bethrothed - when Jeremy tells his mother, she goes to his guardian (Jeremy is only 20) and godfather - enter hero number 2, Sam. Of course mother and guardian immediately think that mother (and maybe daughter) are scheming and vulgar! and will be easy to buy off; when Sam meets Nora, he immediatly realizes this is not the case, but finds out that Nora, herself, is - for unknown reasons- as much opposed to the match as he is. <BR> What ensues is a charming plot where the adults conspire to allow the young folks to meet each other on their contrasting \\"home turf\\" in an attempt to show them how all \\"impossible\\" it all is. Of course, nothing works out that way... we see that Jeremy is a very thoughtful and mature young man with  a good awarenss of what the \\"problems\\" may be, and how to go about solving them. We follow Nora as she comes to terms with the lonliness of losing a daughter (to marriage) and her past. All the characters, including the secondary ones, especially Jeremy's mother are extremely well rounded. <BR> No mystery or mayhem here - just excellent characterization, highly recommended.	2002-10-11
US	52510659	RGC3TENLLHG44	0451173589	453296452	Lady Barbara's Dilemma	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Terrific characters	If you are interested in discovering a new (even if out of print) Regency genre author I highly recommend Farrell - I was led to her by a terrific review of the first book in this group of connected stories \\"Miss Ware's Refusal\\" - it's top flight and I recommend reading that one first. This one is the third (I think, I'm still looking for others) after Autumn Rose.<BR> This is the story of Lady Barbara Stanley - best friend of Judith Ware - and her search for a husband. Her best friend and her brother have excellent loving marriages, so her standards for a future spouse are high. She thinks she has found him; he is titled, wealthy, NICE, and has a terrific and supporting mother. She even really likes his kisses. What more could a girl ask for? Well, someone who supports Lady Barbara's passion for music perhaps? Alec Gower is that violinist - however he is totally unsuitable from a social point of view.<BR> However, the real sticking point comes over Lady Barbara's platonic friend Sir David Treves whose own romance is not without problems. What is wrong with him? He's Jewish. Marjorie Farrell is to be congratulated on her well researched presentation of the Jewish \\"problem\\" in this time period in Britain.<BR> How all these problems are presented and then resloved makes for a highly enjoyable read, with thoughtful intelligent characters and no stereotypes- also no outside mystery and mayhem plot devices - just people trying to get their lives in order. Enjoy!!!	2002-10-11
US	52510659	R1V25P77ECOH14	0451164725	64803078	Miss Ware's Refusal (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Wish more regencies were this good	I discovered this author by reading the review that appears below this one and how glad I am to have discovered Marjorie Farrell. I won't repeat the plot description that is well covered by the other reviewer - I just want to add my enthusiatic praise for well drawn characters and quiet plots (no mystery, murder and mayhem). The secondary characters are especially well done - I loved Mr. Wiggins. This is one that will go on my keeper shelf and will be re-read with pleasure. <BR><BR>Connected books are \\"Autumn Rose\\" and \\"Lady Barbara's Dilemma\\"; this is my favorite of the three.	2002-10-11
US	52510659	R2VLR94L30PXA1	1551669587	839024248	Uneasy Alliance	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Sure wish re-issues would be identified - still a goodie	It's a good thing, this is one of  my favorite JAK books, because of that I remembered that I own the original Harlequin edition and saved myself some money!<BR><BR>That said, this is one JAK that I have read it a number of times and that says a lot about how  well the main characters are drawn. The suspense is pretty good, too! <BR>If you haven't read it before in it's previous edition, I highly recommend it.	2002-10-11
US	52510659	R3HCVSHP16BSV7	044922340X	302720336	The Adventurers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Lovely adventure - weak on history	I have to agree that with the other reviewers that the characters are delightful and that the adventure carries you along - I even finished the book! I say this because I found a lot to annoy me along the way. The book takes place from late in 1803 until early 1804 - and while there is reference to the war going on, never is the short lived Peace of Amiens mentioned (1802-3) in relation to travel on the Continent by: 1) the lawyer 2) the hero or 3) the wicked uncle (who claimed to have been in France). Plus nothing about how the rival claimant may have got out of Europe.<br />I was also annoyed that the author couldn't make up her mind if the inheritance was a barony or a baronetcy - plus the villain could not have been disinherited in favor of the cousin who shouldn't have been able to inherit trhough the female line, etc, etc.<br />So 4+ stars for the characters and the adventure and 2 stars (or less) for the historical inaccuracy - at least the period is early enough that men still wore long hair -else the heroine would have had a problem.	2002-09-24
US	52510659	R1B4C11T6QB0EX	0451206789	653598974	Lady Sparrow (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Not in her usual style and better for it!	Although I enjoy humor in Regency novels, I usually find Barbara Metzger's usual style something of a distraction and frivolous - so I bought this one on the strength of the review that said is was &quot;darker&quot; than her usual fare. True! and I liked it for that reason. <BR>This book features a couple of complex characters not from the usual background - Minerva(Mina) daughter of a wealthy Cit, recent widow of a truly apalling old man who left behind a string of illegitmate children  and Lord Lowell (younger son of a duke) still living with his mother (who is NICE) and with not a lot of money - doing detective work to add to his income and have an interesting career (NOT hobby). Through their search for the lost children we watch them grow to like and respect each other as well as fall in love. <BR>Although there is humor aplenty with the antics of a mongeral dog and a dieaway cousin, there is also plenty of a serious nature - conditions in the orphanage come immediately to mind - drawing a picture of Regency England not usually shown in the books of this genre.<BR> Recommended! However, fans of a lighthearted romp - avoid this one - you won't like it!	2002-09-18
US	52510659	RWASRZVCEV5HI	0451204735	890319899	Labor of Love (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	On the fence with this one	Looking for a new author I bought this book because of the two previous reviews, both by reviewers whose tastes match mine. I can't make up my mind if I liked it or not. The plot is pretty well described by them, so I will not repeat it here. Instead here's what I liked and what I didn't.<BR> Liked: the characters are well drawn and mostly quite believable - including the secondary ones; plus we get to &quot;see&quot; through several points of view. The plot is different and depends on the interactions of the characters to make it move forward - not on some outside villain or unbelievable coincidence.<BR>Didn't like - I really had a hard time with the heroine's behaviour - sneaking around, questioning the servants, etc - and that made it hard to buy into her romance! Especially as we (the readers) were privileged to what &quot;really happened&quot; through the hero's point of view.<BR>All in all - I'll probably buy the sequel...	2002-09-18
US	52510659	R2WEGWK6XPAM4W	0451187458	725326716	The Colonel's Lady	Books	1	2	2	N	Y	On my unfished shelf	I bought this book a couple of years ago because of its place in the series of Oliver's Corinthian books. I started it but never finshed it - except for skipping to the end to see how it came out. Why - I thought the heroine's behaviour was so childish and self-centered that I lost patience. I find that  my enjoyment of any book - but any romance most of all - depends on the development of the principal characters. If I don't like the people, then... so long. I have lots of other books waiting to be read. <BR>PS - I was reminded how much I disliked REgina when meeting her again in Oliver's latest - about Daphne (another loser, sorry to say). <BR>PPS - Please don't be put off the entire series by these two books - the first ones are excellent!	2002-09-11
US	52510659	R1VHQWPCNFVJYN	0312848838	999000197	Bearing Witness: A Rachel Gold Novel (Rachel Gold Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely a Gold medal	I discovered Rachel Gold through a short story in EQMM - thank heaven, as I don't think I would have found them otherwise; for anyone who is looking for a terrific mystery, interesting characters and courtroom drama - run don't walk to buy one of Michael Kahn's Rachel Gold books. <BR><BR>This is, by far, the best of the lot; full of history (Nazi treasure), present day issues(age discrimination and excellent sleuthing. The plotting and the characters are so well drawn that  I find I have re-read this book several times even though I know \\"who dun it\\" and enjoyed it all over again.	2002-09-11
US	52510659	R3D8ZCLOV8SBGH	0451203992	206018944	Daphne's Diary (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	What a twit	I bought this book on the strength of my previous enjoyment of Oliver's Corinthian series and on the interesting premise of the &quot;dear Diary&quot; device. However - I'm surprised I bothered to finish it. I can't believe in a heroine who is such a twit, nor in her equally silly relatives - it's as if they didn't really ask her what happened to her at 15; in these day's of realism and with many other authors tackling difficult subjects, I would have found this plot a LOT more interesting and believable if anything bad had acutally happened TO Daphne, rather than her just witnessing something shocking to her upbringing and expectations. Plus Alexander is a real jerk with his search for &quot;beautiful&quot; women. I found I didn't care at all what happened to the two of them. I read this book to the end to find out what happened to the secondary characters (from previous Oliver books that I enjoyed).<BR>Don't waste your time and money on this one.	2002-09-09
US	52510659	RRS8D51SLHJ6T	0451405986	354284501	Angel Rogue: Revised Edition (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	It grows on you	When I first read this book, it was not my favorite in the Fallen Angel series - I liked Michael's story best. However, this book is one I keep coming back to and enjoy reading over again, which I did recently - hence the review.<BR><BR>I agree with several other reviewers that the strength of this book is in the depth and development of the characters and their relationships. I especially enjoyed that between Robin and his brother Giles and the romance between Giles and Desdemona!<BR><BR>It is refreshing to have characters with doubts and flaws and watch them deal with them; it is refreshing to have a very different heroine and watch her reaction to a &quot;familiar&quot; (to regency era fans) environment. Meeting characters from the other books once Robin and Maxie get to London, added greatly to my enjoyment.<BR><BR>The plot line is not as action filled as the other books in this series, nor do outside events bring historical interest - so if that is what you seek in an &quot;historcial&quot;, this book might disappoint.<BR><BR>I do agree with another reviewer that the title is wrong - I always thought this book should have been titled &quot;Listen to the Wind&quot;.	2002-05-24
US	52510659	R15PEFYGUIF266	0515132799	141840463	Ride the Winter Wind	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Totally archtypical evil villain	If you can get past the concept of a villain so totally evil, greedy, etc as this one is depicted, and a heorine who only realizes the depths of his perfidy much too late, then you can enjoy this book. It's plot is fast paced with a reasonable amount of suspense and the main characters capture your interest. Having not read the other books in the series I was a bit lost by certain references, though.<BR><BR>I prefer more time spent on character development and less extravagant more everyday plots (and much more subtle villains) so I only gave it 3 stars. Enjoyed reading it but won't keep it.	2002-05-09
US	52510659	R2NWIB7TEJCAJF	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Unrealistic but lots of fun for fans	I was looking forward to the continuation of the Cynster series and also to the notion of a female Cynster. If you are a fan of this series, and I am, then you will enjoy this one even with its flaws. The biggest problem that I found is one several other reviewers remarked upon - the ability for a young woman of Amanda's class to venture safely through the less savory edges of society is highly unlikely if not practically impossible for the time period. There was just enough explanation/excuse offered to enable me to suspend judgement enough to enjoy the plot. However, the larger fault to me was the lack of character development and the dependence on the sex scenes to carry the day -Laurens can do better than that, and has! <BR> So although I enjoyed Amanda's story and will buy and read (an hopefully enjoy Amelia's) I'm fairly sure that I won't want to re-read it down the road!	2002-04-09
US	52510659	R10LAXEPWJF456	0345434250	701455766	Nimisha's Ship	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Better than expected	I put off buying this book based on all the negative reviews and picked up a hardcover at less than paperback prices just a few weeks ago... read it in one sitting which I hadn't expected after all the comments about no conflict/suspense....and found it very enjoyable although not my favorite book by Anne - and I've read most of them. <br /> I enjoyed reading all the background provided in the first part of the book and getting the feel of a new SF society  - these were up to Anne's usual high standard in my opinion. I also did not think the characters are one dimensional or flat as some other reviewers have mentioned, maybe more subtle. Perhaps it is because this book is meant to be the first in a series - and more development will occur later. Regardless, I enjoyed meeting all these new people although I'd have like more on the Sh'im individuals. <br /> This book is not for someone who likes SF books with lots of violence, running battles and other ACTION to make it move along, but it should satisfy otherwise.	2001-08-04
US	52510659	R1FIU8FBBC8JCE	0345434684	343656718	The Skies Of Pern	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Preparing for After	What a wonderful surprise - I was not expecting another book in the Pern series and was delighted to read this one. I disagree that the introduction of technology into the Pern culture makes the books worse; instead this trend is one of the main &quot;problems&quot; that the wonderful continuing cast of characters must deal with. Reading how they cope (or don't cope) with all the innovations makes for alot of interest. Add a natural disaster and a new love interest and this book is a winner.  <br /> Yes, there are a few problems with chronology but they don't get in the way of the enjoyment of the book. I do agree that if one is not familiar with all the various personalities, the many threads (pun not intended) of the plot could be confusing. For followers of the series, however, the involvement of so many old friends is a delight. <br />I very much enjoyed the development of F'Lessan as a character and the introduction of a new heroine with Tai. I can see lots of possibilites for them After. Although the future work for the dragonriders (as implied) may not be as exciting as fighting Thread (as one reviewer mentioned) I will enjoy reading how the Pernese learn to live and conquer new challanges After. Keep writing, Anne.	2001-04-17
US	52510659	RU6WZ8L774RES	1551664704	298085509	Once In Paris	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Where is the continuity editor????	I hadn't read a recent Diana Palmer book - she used to be one of my favorite series romance authors - but bought, read and really liked Lord of the Desert. Felt I was missing someting about &quot;what happened before&quot; so made a point of buying Once in Paris to find out Philippe and Brianne's previous history.<br /> I liked the two main characters and their interactions; I especially liked the fact that there was a very believable reason to keep the hero and heroine apart - Pierce's love for his first wife.<br /> That said, I'm a bit tired of the much older man/much younger woman theme. I also found Kurt Brauer a bit inadequate as a villian.<br /> What REALLY annoyed me was the breaks in continuity - how can Brianne be told Pierce's age early in the book and later say she doesn't have  any idea how old he is? Also going from Savannah to Virginia by private jet on page 298 and then to Charleston SC on page 302-303 when driving by limo to Washington DC was so incredible that I almost tossed the book out - except I wanted to know how it ended.<br /> In summary, a good romance between likable characters made less enjoyable by annoying errors.	2000-11-15
US	52510659	R1RHTLU6SLILPO	0451195450	712626498	Miss Milton Speaks Her Mind (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	The mill owner has a name - use it.	This was the first Carla Kelly I read and it was almost my last, which would have been a great pity as almost every other book of hers I have read gets 5 stars. Why 3 for this one? If the hero was referred to as &quot;the  mill owner&quot; once or twice that would have been OK, but almost  constantly? I wanted to scream. He has a name! use it! It got to be so  distracting I almost didn't finish the book and that would have been a pity  as the characters are terrific and the plot much better than average. <br />If  you reacted the way I did about this book, don't be put off (as I almost  was) - try to find other books by Carla Kelly and ENJOY! I highly recommend  them.	2000-02-11
US	52510659	R219VTKA9D69DI	0425158624	151274310	Silent Melody	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Wonderful characters and plot, BUT....	Didn't anybody else have a problem with the heroine's ability to &quot;read lips&quot; when she only vaguely remembered sounds (from her early childhood) and couldn't read or write? (which she only learned to do  at 16). Unfortunately this bothered me so much, I couldn't get into the  book - and this one has a great deal to offer otherwise. Mary Balogh's  strongly developed characters and wonderful plot couldn't quite rescue this  one for me.	2000-02-01
US	52510659	R1REBZTEHEH71X	0821764497	228664938	Lord St. Claire's Angel (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Good new author with excellent characters.	I am VERY pleased to have happened on this book by a new Regency author. The plot is a bit predictable with the &quot;poor governess/rich nobleman&quot; theme but don't let that put you off. This book is full of  interesting people you identify with or want to get to know better. <br />All  the characters have exceptional depth for books in this genre, and I  especially enjoyed the secondary ones: the details  given about the  heroine's aunt Emily make you long for the author to give her a book of her  own. Even the antagonists in this book have lots of interesting personality  traits. No one dimensional characters here!    <br />My only complaint - and  it is not unique to this author - is that she needs a crash course (or a  better editor) in English titles. It was especially irritating to me that  even the title of the book is wrong. Her hero is NOT Lord St. Claire, as  the younger brother of a Marquess, he is Lord Justin.	1999-12-22
US	52510659	R3CRB8WZKLHBWF	1893337006	151271676	Letters from Pemberley, the First Year: A Continuation of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Please! Tell a friend.	Echoing the comment of the reader from Billings Montana, if you enjoyed Letters from Pemberly, tell a friend! And what better way of doing it than through Amazon reader reviews! I bought this book on strength of its  reviews and was completely delighted! If you are an Austen fan, and even  more a Pride and Prejudice fan (as I am), this book should be  &quot;required reading&quot;!	1999-11-23
US	52510659	RW633RPSAOFHS	0821750135	945816297	Amelia's Intrigue (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Grab this one if you find it!	I bought this book in the Auctions on the basis of the previous review and the fact that I have liked other Judith Lansdowne books. I was not disappointed. This book is a keeper! A wonderful and heartwarming story  that just happens to be set in the Regency period. The relationships  between Geordan and his extended family are a delight and the glimpses of  well known names such as Gentleman Jackson and Beau Brummel as well as  Trevithick as they interact with our heroes just add that little extra.	1999-11-19
US	52510659	R1XH9Z9BJVC803	0821752960	195842908	The Bedeviled Duke	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of Lansdowne's best	If you like this author this out of print book is worth looking for. Judith Lansdowne creates such likeable characters. This book has some of her best. I very much enjoyed a heroine who was quite content with her  &quot;lot&quot; as an on the shelf spinster, until she got involved with  the hero, of course. And talk about unusual and humerous heros - this is  the first Regency hero I can remember &quot;encumbered&quot; with 8  children. I loved the entire family, they all come alive in this  heartwarming story.	1999-11-15
US	52510659	RUEMONVQJ349A	0821763881	722983287	Mutiny At Almack's (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lot of fun, if a bit unrealistic	First let me say that I enjoy Judith Lansdowne's characters and humor very much and this book was no exception - it's up to her ususal high standards. However, I do agree with the reader that says it's a &quot;bit over the  top&quot; - those of us who read Regency period novels and get impatient  with the stuffiness of Almacks and its patronesses will enjoy how it and  they get treated in this book, even if we have to suspend belief.	1999-11-15
US	52510659	R33Y9SI714FD0O	0312200234	339093152	Stiff News	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Not her best stuff	I welcomed the return of C.D. Sloan and even the lead-footed Crosby, and I was quite intrigued by the mystery; however, the thread seemed to fizzle out and the denouement left me cold. It all seemed much ado about nothing.  An enjoyable read for fans of this sleuth, but newcomers to Aird should  read some of her older books. My personal favorite is &quot;A Most  Contagious Game&quot;. It does not feature C.D. Sloan, although it is laid  in Calleshire and mixes a delightful historical mystery with a modern one  in masterful fashion.	1999-11-15
US	52510659	R3MNEYWBA40CRG	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best since Devil's Bride	I loved this installment in the Bar Cynster series! The development of the relationship between the two central characters was very realistic. I found Flick trying to understand and cope with the transformation of Demon from  her childhood hero/ideal into a real life potential husband a delight and  far more believable than Patience trying to cope with her  &quot;distrust&quot; of Vane's sincerity in &quot;A Rake's Vow&quot;.  Readers wanting a lot of suspense might be disappointed, but those who  enjoy well drawn characters will love this one.	1999-11-15
US	52510659	R1HCM93VX4B7BA	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A strong link in the Bar Cynster series	Love the characters and the development; plot a bit farfetched; I prefer a plot that doesn't depend on the mystical. I very much enjoy this series and how all the various members of the family keep appearing - it is one of the  elements that makes this series so appealing. I do have one caveat about  this in &quot;Scandal's Bride&quot; however. There is NO WAY that a message  could get from Catriona to Devil and get Devil and Honaria to Scotland in  the time frame the plot demands - even express couriers and fast carriages  didn't travel THAT fast - in winter, too! Regardless, a good read.	1999-11-15
US	52510659	R1QD0YQZCCDK0J	0399144706	763909406	River's End	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Not a keeper.	With Nora's best romantic suspense books, it doesn't matter if I know &quot;who done it&quot; - I reread them many times because I love the characters. With River's End, I couldn't get involved with these people and only read to the end to enjoy the solution to the mystery. Now it's no  longer a mystery, I have no reason to keep it around. Sorry, Nora. In  contrast - I just LOVED &quot;Hidden Riches&quot;, have read it several  times and would recommend it to anyone!	1999-11-15
US	52510659	R1PFX2KXU2U8I0	0399145621	830818607	SECOND WIND	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	What an unbelieveable plot	I've been a Dick Francis fan for years and agree with several reviewers that recommend going back to his earlier books for good plots - you can drive a truck through the holes in this one, plus I've never met so many  inept villains in a Francis thriller before!  I'm not bothered by the  de-emphasis on horses and racing, because whatever the field (in this case  meterology) it's always well researched and presented.  I was very  intrigued by the characters (Perry's grandmother was a delight) and the  interaction between Perry and Chris; but the bad plot spoiled this one for  me.	1999-11-15
