US	52512259	R1SK4KEF4H92XG	0451206002	828611048	Over the Edge (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A frantic psychological whodunit.	When Dr. Alex Delaware is woken up in the middle of the night by an incoherent, frantic call from a former patient, he suspects that not all is well with the world. Things take a decided turn for the worse when said patient is found in the midst of a bloody murder scene, what appears to be one of a long series of sexually-motivated murders. Thrown into the middle of the fray by his desire to find the truth out about his patient, Dr. Delaware once again must put his experiences as psychologist and a sleuth to the test.<br />The third of Jonathan Kellerman's Dr. Alex Delaware novels, readers will find a cast of familiar characters amongst the throngs of the new and the suspicous. In addition to the good doctor himself, we also have the return of Detective Milo Sturgis as well as luthier and love interest Robin. The familiar characters are comforting, because the rest of the cast of characters are a frantic mess of psychological problems which leaves the reader dizzy.<br />I found the pacing and the character development in this book to be odd, and somewhat off. It's nothing that I can really quantify, but something didn't feel quite right throughout the work. That being said, Kellerman has once again produces a psychological thriller that is compelling and leaves a couple of bits of mystery left until the end, even for those who can unravel the threads of the tale before the denouement.<br />Definitely worth reading if this is your genre, though I still find Kellerman's first Alex Delaware novel (When the Bough Breaks) to be my favorite in the series thus far.	2002-09-13
US	52512259	R1HSHV8NHOKB61	0553569619	276823831	When the Bough Breaks (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	4	76	83	N	Y	Introducing Dr. Alex Delaware.	Child psychologist Dr. Alex Delaware seems to have it all. A beautiful home, a loving woman, a luxurious car, and retirement in his early  thirties. There aren't many that can claim the bounties that Dr. Delaware has in his life. However, all is not well with Dr. Delaware. With a psyche still scarred by the horrors brought to his doorstep by a lonely and sick man, Alex finds himself adrift, simply existing and not really living.<br />That is, until his friend and LAPD detective Milo Sturgis comes to him and asks for help. Milo is working a double homicide case, and the only witness they have at this time is Melody Quinn, a quiet, troubled, 7-year-old girl. Milo wants Alex to dust off his couch and talk to Melody. Little did Alex know that this simple favor would set off a chain of events that would have dire consequences on his life.<br />This is the first of Jonathan Kellerman's highly popluar Dr. Alex Delaware series, and I can see why this first book has led to many more. Dr. Delaware is an interesting character with several different - and often conflicting - aspects to his personality. Milo Sturgis, the slovenly LAPD Homicide detective with a heart of gold and unique personality foibles all his own is Alex's co-star, and is a fascinating character in his own right.<br />I enjoyed this book quite a bit, and look forward to reading the further adventures of Dr. Delaware.	2002-08-11
US	52512259	R2LJQVC2BGP9J3	0553569635	145267347	Blood Test (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Not as satisfying as one would hope, but still an ok read.	In this second novel by Jonathan Kellerman featuring Dr. Alex Delaware, the good doctor finds himself drawn into the midst of a mystery involving a  horribly sick child, a strangely shut-off family, a reclusive religious cult, and a whole town that seems to have a pall cast over it. When five-year- old Woody Swope disappears from the hospital where he is being treated for life-threatening cancer, Dr. Alex Delaware does everything in his power to find the missing child. Can he dig up the truth behind the mysteries surrounding Woody before it's too late for the boy?<br />While Dr. Delaware and his LAPD Homicide detective friend Milo Sturgis continue to be interesting and compelling characters, I found that I didn't enjoy Blood Test as much as I did the first of Kellerman's Delaware novels, When the Bough Breaks. I didn't feel that the supporting characters were as well fleshed out as they could have been, and that many of them were in the story simply to fit an archetype or to neatly be a necessary foil for some aspect of the plot. This isn't to say that the book wasn't enjoy, but it simply didn't feel as natural as When the Bough Breaks. I will certainly continue reading the Kellerman series, and hope that this book's lack of polish is the exception to the rule.	2002-08-11
US	52512259	REHFM8H2NQOY8	0380812916	369928451	Tokyo Suckerpunch : A Billy Chaka Adventure	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yakuza, murder, arson, religious cults, geisha, and Purple.	It isn't easy being the top reporter for Cleveland's number-one Asian teen magazine. Billy Chaka travels the world in search of the hip, the hot, the happening, and somehow always manages to find a little trouble along the way. This trip is nothing different. In Japan to cover the Handicapped Martial Arts Championship, Billy finds himself embroiled in a mystery that involves the yakuza, youth gangs, a religious cult, and a geisha with a hazy background. And that's before you count the murder, the arson, and the movie that's (apparently) being made of his life.<br />Such is the life of the jet-set reporter.<br />Tokyo Suckerpunch is a simply stunning tour of Japanese pop culture, told with a combination of cynicism and awe that seems highly appropriate for the amalgamation of weird that is modern-day Japan. Isaac Adamson appears to have done his research, a problem with many of the tales of Japan told by westerners. This book will have you laughing - and gaping - at the antics of both the hero and of those he encounters. A fast read well worth the time you put into it.	2002-08-10
US	52512259	R32WQEOGNAULDJ	0671886665	93183988	A Cry In The Night	Books	4	1	2	N	N	How well do you know your husband?	What more could a woman want? A handsome, talented, famous, wealthy man swoops into your lonely and hectic life, where you are doing everything you can to keep your career and your life as a single mother on an even keel, and saves you from the babysitters and the walks home in the snow and the busses and the unforgiving bosses. This man comes into your life, and adores you, and loves your children as if they were his own, and asks you to marry him. Any woman who spent a night as a girl tucked under the covers having fairy tales read to her would hardly be able to believe that maybe, just maybe, fairy tales do come true.<br />This was, indeed, the case for Jenny MacPartland, single mother of two struggling to make ends meet in New York. Just when things were looking their bleakest, Erich Krueger comes into her life. Handsome and charming, and up-and-coming name in the art world, Erich sweeps Jenny and her small family from their cozy existance in New York and takes them to the vast beauty of his family's home in Montana.<br />And then, things start going horribly wrong. Jenny starts to realize that maybe she was hasty, marrying this man so quickly. How much does she really know about him? About his past? And can she ever help this man that she loves exorcize the demons that have been following him for years? Or will they, in turn, come to haunt her - and her children - as well?<br />Mary Higgins Clark once again presents a solid piece of suspense that will leave you checking over your shoulder and making sure all the windows are locked.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	R54939A2PSYE5	0440236053	51290485	Writ of Execution (Nina Reilly)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nina Reilly strikes again.	Nina Reilly seems to have a singular talent for finding trouble, or rather, for letting trouble find her. Just when Nina is ready to take that next step on the road to getting on with her life following her husband's death, to moving on to a new life with long-time paramour Paul, trouble comes knocoking on her door in the form of a scared but tough young girl with a somewhat befuddled and entranced programmer trailing after her.<br />The O'Shaughnessy sisters come back with another winner starring single mom Nina Reilly. In the now-familiar setting of Lake Tahoe, Nina's has a client with a unique problem: Jessie has won the lottery, but is unwilling to give her name or social security number to the media or even the casino. Once Nina starts digging into Jessie's past, it becomes clear that there Jessie was right to be concerned... and that she may have made some new enemies along the way.<br />A good read, though some of the byplay between Paul and Nina may be getting a bit repetitive. However, I think that anyone who's read the previous Nina Reilly books will enjoy this one, and those who haven't may want to go read the back catalog prior to reading Writ of Execution, as there is some character interaction that would certainly benefit from knowing the history behind it.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	R29MF72854PE2A	0943151341	128562547	Gloom Cookie Volume 1 (v. 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Gleefully dark and lonesome.	Wow. What an amazing foray into the world of the ultra-hip goth with an immensely appealing cast of characters. Lex, with the hair that curls under just right, who is deeply in love with Max, who does not love her (though he will share her bed). Instead, Max loves the dark queen Isabella, who loves no one but herself, but has darker secrets than that to harbor. Sebastian, with a past that he only knows the most tintillating bits about, and his girlfriend, who has even more secrets. And we mustn't forget the Monster Under the Bed or the others cast in the dark and lonely world of Gloom Cookie.<br />With beautiful dark (and yet somehow simultaneously cute) artwork, Serena Valentino and Ted Naifeh present a story of loves unrequited, loves requited that perhaps should not have been, and the machinations people ... and others... will go to get what they want. I wonderful foray into gothic (no, really) comics, with more yet to come.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	RB9VP7F05DXQ9	1550225480	574502061	Ghost Rider: Travels on the Healing Road	Books	5	157	174	N	N	The story of a man determined to save his own life.	In the interest of full disclosure, I admit to being a long-time Rush fan, which by extension makes me a long-time fan of Neil Peart, the author of this work and drummer and lyricist for Rush. I had been aware of the tragedies that he and his family had experienced, and knew that it was the reason behind the several-year gap between albums (Test for Echo released in 1996. Rush's next album, Vapor Trails, would not release until 2002.). However, I didn't know the story of what brought Neil back to Rush, and thus Rush back to the world until I picked up this book at a concert in July of 2002.<br />When Neil Peart lost his daughter to a traffic accident in the fall of 1997, and his wife to cancer (though, really, he knew it was a broken heart that took his wife), he was an empty man, a man with no reason to live, and little desire to do so. To save himself from the loneliness and the emptiness of a life alone, Peart took to the roads on his motorcycle on a journey that would cover Canada, much of the western United States, and parts of Central America. As he wrote:<br />&quot;My little baby soul was not a happy infant, of course, with much to complain about, but as every parent learns, a restless baby often calms down if you take it for a ride. I had learned my squalling spirit could be soothed the same way, by motion, and so I had decided to set off on this journey into the unknown. Take my little baby soul for a ride.&quot;<br />This book is a compelling combination of travelogue, literary journal, sarcastic wit, and honest soul- searching. It provides a number of insights to a complex and intriguing man, one who would be interesting even without his fame. His humor, his pain, his reflections, his irritation, his impatience, his fear... All of it presented for the world to see, and to learn from.<br />I recommend this book not only to Rush fans, but to anyone interested in seeing how someone survives the losses Peart experienced and emerges a whole person on the other side.her side.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	R3OBDTOJIVBUL9	0671028375	840593809	Fatal Voyage (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Tempe Brennan strikes again.	Kathy Reichs' latest Tempe Brennan thriller takes place in the lesser-visited half of Brennan's two homes, North Carolina. When a commercial jetliner crashes into the mountains of North Carolina, Tempe Brennan answers the call to help dig through the devastation. Little does she know that even the horrors involved in this gruesome task will not be the worst she is going to face in the coming days and weeks.<br />Always one to take great pride in her work and her professionalism, Tempe is devastated when charges are brought against her and she is thrown from the DMORT investigation and recovery team. Determined to clear her name, Tempe soon finds herself in a web of deceit and corruption with a history - and a present - that will rock the state to its core.<br />As always, Reichs presents a crisp story with compelling characters and a beautiful tangle of mysteries. Readers often compare Tempe Brennan to Patricia Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta, and I can't say that I disagree with the assessment. However, I find that I am more willing to relate to Tempe Brennan than I am Kay Scarpetta, though I'm not sure why. Perhaps Reichs has not yet put Brennan in quite as many personally harrowing and extraordinary situations as Cornwell has placed Scarpetta in. Maybe it's the lack of multiple professional degrees (Scarpetta having both law and medical degrees). Or maybe it's just that Brennan is (marginally) closer to my age. Whatever it is, as much as I love Kay Scarpetta, I'm finding that I like Tempe Brennan even more.<br />I found Fatal Voyage to be very interesting, fast-paced, with believable characters and a plot that left your mind racing. I do think it would be of benefit to read Reichs' previous Brennan works to get a more complete feel for the characters and for Tempe's history, some of which plays into the plot of this novel. All in all, a great read, and does nothing to dissipate my overall admiration of Kathy Reichs.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	RW19B5WC3RJST	0671004530	362049018	On the Street Where You Live	Books	4	1	1	N	N	You might not want to read this one at night...	In this spooky mystery, defense attorney Emily Graham finds more than she bargained for when she bought her ancestral home in the small resort town of Spring Lake, New Jersey. Instead of a feeling of comfort and coming home, she is faced with skeletons in her backyard and the return of a stalker thought vanquished to the state mental institution. Not exactly the relaxing situation for which Graham had been hoping.<br />Mary Higgins Clark strikes again with another spooky mystery that will have you checking the locks on the doors and leaving the lights on. There are so many twists and turns, so many seemingly random characters that pop up when you least expect them, that the reader will be left guessing until the final pages. Well worth reading.	2002-08-05
US	52512259	RNH0SJS7LEADV	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tight, fast crime story.	In this tight, fast-paced police thriller, Chief of Police Jeff Talley would like nothing more than to start a new existance, leaving the shattered pieces of the life he once loved behind him. However, there were bigger forces at work, and Talley would soon find his quiet little suburb in the midst of multiple homicides, kidnappings, and hostage takings. Even more disturbing, however, is that these are the least of his problems.<br />In Hostage, Robert Crais takes his second stab at the 'damaged cop with a painful past' story (the first Demolition Angel), and does a credible job with the tale. The characters are a decent combination of primary characters with emotional and literary depth and secondary characters of sufficient variety to keep them all from blending together. A coupld of the plot twists felt a little contrived, but not so much as to ruin the credibility of the story.<br />All in all, a worthwhile read. Fast and engaging, with all the right elements for a crime thriller.	2002-07-29
US	52512259	RBTZFSNILMTTW	0743439775	455946528	Flight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Frank Harriman moves into the spotlight.	As a fan of Jan Burke's Irene Kelly novels (most recently, Bones), I was quite prepared to take a chance on her with a new primary character, Detective Frank Harriman. This isn't quite the leap of faith that those who aren't familiar with the Irene Kelly works might imagine; Detective Harriman certainly played important roles in those previous novels. This time, however, the story was almost all his, and any concerns I might have had about the change in lineup were allayed in the opening pages.<br />Detective Frank Harriman is stuck with a hell of a case, actually, a hell of a set of cases. The Las Piernas Police Department is convinced as to the long-borne guilt of one of their own in a heinous case of murder and betrayal, and nobody is interested in hearing other theories, until Harriman won't let them ignore the growing pile of evidence. Harriman's doggedness doesn't win him any friends, on the force or in the shadowy recesses of some of the darker elements of the city. But even Harriman wasn't prepared for where his investigations would take him or the degree to which a madman would go to fulfill his destiny.<br />Like the rest of Burke's works, Flight combines compellling characters with an attention to detail that is to be admired. It is fairly rare to be left feeling like you've been left with a pile of loose ends after a Burke denouement. In fact, my main gripe with Flight was the departure fairly on in the novel of a pair of characters I would have like to have had a chance to get to know better.<br />As always, Burke presents an exceptional \\"who done it\\" procedural mystery.	2002-07-29
US	52512259	R3KYCMMP7RROU7	0252068297	143290565	Leopold and Loeb: The Crime of the Century	Books	3	61	63	N	Y	A fascinating story told in a rather disjointed manner.	When I was a sophomore in college, I took a criminal sociology course which touched on a number of famous cases of the 20th century. One of the cases the class reviewed was that of Leopold and Loeb, the two genius, well-bred, affluent Jewish teenagers who murdered a neighbor for intellectual thrills. I didn't think much of the case after the class, until recently, when it suddenly came to mind again for some inexplicable reason.<br />When I went on my search for a book about the case, I originally was looking for \\"Compulsion\\" by Meyer Levin, as that was the title I remembered from my class. However, it seems that work is out of print, and so I went with \\"Leopold and Loeb: The Crime of the Century\\" by Hal Higdon. I think this was, in the long run, probably the better choice, more firmly rooted in the world of fact than the based-on-true-events stylings of Levin's work. That is not, however, to say that Higdon's piece does not have its own issues.<br />I found this book to be very hard to work through, despite being interested in the subject matter. While it did, for the most part, provide a very complete picture of all of the pertinent details, I felt that the narrative was very disjointed. Higdon would often seem to switch thoughts mid-paragraph, including details seemingly unrelated to the topic being discussed. I also found it maddening that the book would often seem to be working up to a comclusion regarding some particular point, and then would abruptly stop. Names of various persons and locations were thrown around with abandon, with no hint as to whether or not the reader should recognize the name from earlier in the tale or if this was a new, separate non-sequiter. It was a very frustrating way to read a book, and this jarring writing style would often derail me from my interest in the book.<br />But, despite the distracting writing style, the tale told remains fascinating. Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb seemed to have every advantage. They were both from well-off and well-respected families, they never wanted for any material good, they were even - in their own ways - well-liked. Combined with their superior intellects (Leopold had an IQ of 210, Loeb of 160), these two young men should have been able to achieve anything they wanted... and apparently, they felt the same way. Unfortunately, what they set their sights on was the kidnapping and murder of a neighborhood youth. The investigation and the trial to follow would hold Chicago in its thrall for months on end, with the media doing their best to spur on the public's fervor for anything to do with the case.<br />This tale does not lack for interesting characters. At the core, of course, are Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb. Why would two young men, just 19 and 18 years old respectively, take it upon themselves to perform this bizarre act? What possible motive could they have had? But in addition to these two young men who would find themselves at the center of the \\"Crime of the Century,\\" there was also Clarence Darrow, one of the pre-eminent attorneys of his day. Darrow's staunch opposition to the death penalty would play an enormous role in the course the trial would take. There were any number of other players in the game that would have roles of varying importance, and many of them proved to be quite interesting in their own rights.<br />All in all, I would say that this book is very interesting... despite the writing. There may be other works out there that tell the tale of Leopold and Loeb with a more readable writing style, but I do give Higdon credit for completeness. I learned a great deal about the primary participants in this sad tale as well as much about what was historical fact and what was simply myth that had been built up around the case over the years.well-off and well-respected families, they never wanted for any material good, they were even - in their own ways - well-liked. Combined with their superior intellects (Leopold had an IQ of 210, Loeb of 160), these two young men should have been able to achieve anything they wanted... and apparently, they felt the same way. Unfortunately, what they set their sights on was the kidnapping and murder of a neighborhood youth. The investigation and the trial to follow would hold Chicago in its thrall for months on end, with the media doing their best to spur on the public's fervor for anything to do with the case. <br />This tale does not lack for interesting characters. At the core, of course, are Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb. Why would two young men, just 19 and 18 years old respectively, take it upon themselves to perform this bizarre act? What possible motive could they have had? But in addition to these two young men who would find themselves at the center of the \\"Crime of the Century,\\" there was also Clarence Darrow, one of the pre-eminent attorneys of his day. Darrow's staunch opposition to the death penalty would play an enormous role in the course the trial would take. There were any number of other players in the game that would have roles of varying importance, and many of them proved to be quite interesting in their own rights. <br />All in all, I would say that this book is very interesting... despite the writing. There may be other works out there that tell the tale of Leopold and Loeb with a more readable writing style, but I do give Higdon credit for completeness. I learned a great deal about the primary participants in this sad tale as well as much about what was historical fact and what was simply myth that had been built up around the case over the years.	2002-07-18
US	52512259	R1THC02MYIJV71	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	4	7	8	N	N	One last summer...	So, you're a despondent teenage girl, fresh out of high school, and you and your best friend in the world have little to do beyond hang out at coffee shops and mock your fellow humans while hovering on the fringe of acceptable society. Our heroine Enid Coleslaw and her best friend Rachel Doppelmeyer are not glamour girls, are not part of the popular crowd, but seem quite happy with their roles of caustic observers.<br />Ghost World covers that simultaneously fragile and empowering period of life immediately following graduation from high school, before having to head off to college or a job or whatever the future may bring. While it would be easy to dislike Enid and Rachel for their sarcasm, their overactive imaginations, their snide cruelty, Clowes does an excellent job of bringing out the insecurities and the fears behind the girls' bravado.<br />In some unquantifiable way, Clowes's artwork matches the story and the characters perfectly. A little off, a little oddly out of proportion at times, sometimes beautiful, sometimes awkward. All in all, a great mix, and certainly worth a read.	2002-07-16
US	52512259	R1FRM348Q6CT95	1929998007	419572631	The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not your everyday neighborhood kid.	This volume collects the first three issues of The Adventures of Barry Ween: Boy Genius.<br />Barry Ween is not the boy next door. At least, you'd better hope he's not. If he is, chances are you probably don't want to know, because you probably have radioactive waste stored under your house, have had your entire life history scoped out, have had your future pre-determined, and your cat is probably a clone.<br />Barry is not your typical 10 year old. As he says, if his IQ could be measured, it'd loom somewhere around 350. He remembers his time in the womb. He has, however, hidden his staggering intelligence from his family and from most of his 'peers.' The only one who seems to know the truth about Barry is his best friend Jeremy. The attraction there is certainly not because Barry recognizes a kindred spirit. While not dumb, Jeremy would rather spend his energy thinking about [breasts] and food than world domination.<br />If you're familiar with The Tick, you might remember Charles. Barry reminds me of Charles, except not as manic, more intelligent, and with a much more ... colorful ... vocabulary. But, despite the conniving, calculating, impatient, overbearing nature of our boy hero, he has a soft side (though he'd never admit it). Whether working to change Jeremy back into a human (long story), or saving his classmates from a group of Austrian art thieves, Barry generally finds a way to do 'the right thing' to get his friends and himself out of sticky situations, swearing up a blue streak all the while.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and am looking forward to reading more.	2002-07-14
US	52512259	R172LAG5C7APYA	1569716110	976324589	Domu	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's always the quiet ones...	Wow. Just... wow. Once you pick up Domu, you'll find that you blaze through it very quickly, but that at the same time, each scene will leave a marked impression on you.<br />Domu takes place in modern-day Tokyo, and is centered around a monolithic housing complex which has had more than its fair share of mysterious deaths. Suicides, accidental deaths, murders, and deaths which have not even been able to be classified... an inordinate number of people seem to meet untimely ends at the Tsutsumi Public Housing Complex. The police are stymied, as well they should be when faced with exceedingly violent suicides and building jumpers who somehow manage to get onto the roof through a locked door. And the residents are increasingly uneasy.<br />What nobody knows is that senile little Cho Uchida, abandoned by his family, living alone, with the mind of a child, is the force behind these mysterious deaths. Possessing great extrasensory powers, Uchida sees the tenants of the Tsutsumi Public Housing Complex as his toys, to torment, or to kill, as his childish whim dictates. That is, until a little girl by the name of Etsuko moves into the complex. Armed with powers of her own, Etsuko is appalled by the things she sees (and senses) Uchida doing, and declares war.<br />Soon the entire complex is trapped in the midst of the battle between these two mental giants, and between the death of innocents and the destruction wreaked in offensive and defensive measures by the two combatants... the housing complex, and some of the people investigating the mystery deaths, will never be the same again.<br />Though Katsuhiro Otomo is probably best known for his work on Akira, Domu should definitely stand out as a meaningful, powerful work in its own right. Gorgeous artwork and a story made all the more chilling by the childlike temperaments of the main characters make Domu a story well worth reading.	2002-07-07
US	52512259	R14PT91SR1ALQC	1569315442	25679544	Banana Fish, Vol. 4	Books	4	4	4	N	N	On the run in LA, enemies behind every palm tree.	After trouble finds Ash and his friends at their Cape Cod hideout, they continue their quest to find the truth behind Banana Fish by heading to Los Angeles, following a lead given to Ash by a dying man. After a less-than-cordial welcome from Max Lobo's ex-wife, the crew heads out to find an address that they think has something to do with the ongoing Banana Fish saga. Little do they know that Papa Dino has worked with his Chinese associates to stage a welcome for Ash and company.<br />After fending off the would-be kidnappers, and finding a few surprises inside the house, Ash and his friends settle in to do some research into Banana Fish, and what exactly it is, and why everybody seems to want it. Meanwhile, Shorter has problems of his own, what with the Young Master being not quite what he seems. And how about Eiji and Ibe, who are now in the country illegally since their visas have expired?<br />As usual, all is turmoil, but Ash, Max, and their friends are determined to find the truth behind Banana Fish, and finally put to rest the ghost of Griffin. The story continues to unfold quickly, and new mysteries spring up left and right, drawing you further in. Another fine volume in the Banana Fish series.	2002-07-06
US	52512259	R2AP87VBEL9XD5	1569316953	131999033	Banana Fish, Vol. 6	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Never back a Lynx into a corner.	Volume 6 of Banana Fish is full of suprises, the largest (to me) being that this is not the final volume of the Banana Fish series. (I thought it was, and was quite surprised when I encountered the dreaded \\"... to be continued ...\\") Of course, this means that there is more of Amiki Yoshida's wonderful story to come, but it still came as quite a surprise.<br />The time has come for Ash to face his enemies once and for all. Papa Dino and Arthur have captured everyone he holds dear to use as toys in their own particular brand of torment for Ash. Run-of-the- mill torture won't suffice for Ash's enemies, however. They have other plans; plans that involve the mind-altering drug code-named Banana Fish. Forced to do the unthinkable, Ash is ready to die himself, when he receives help from an unexpected ally.<br />While Ash is plotting his escape and revenge, Ash's and Shadow's gangs are making their own plans to storm the Golzine mansion. As for Arthur and Dino, they have some very special guests to entertain...<br />An exciting story that moves at break-neck speed, Banana Fish Volume 6 continues Akimi Yoshida's gritty story of a New York gang youth who never wanted anything more than to live his life and solve the mystery behind his brother's past. While I was disappointed to not see the culmination of the sage in this volume as I thought I would, I am eagerly awaiting further installments to the tale.	2002-07-06
US	52512259	R24RWGAK5QAYDS	1569316732	84548268	Banana Fish, Vol. 5	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Trickery, betrayal, and treachery.	Ash and his friends continue their quest to find the truth behind Banana Fish, but if they thought they would be left to do their research in peace, they were sorely mistaken. Holing up at Dr. Alexis Dawson's house might have worked, had 1) the house not been under surveillance and 2) there not been a traitor on the inside. When Ash and Max rush off to try to save Max's family, a treacherous plan is set into motion, whisking Shadow and Eiji off to New York to face Papa Dino, and the rest soon to follow.<br />With the truth of Banana Fish out in the open, all the remains to be seen is how Ash will find a way out of the clutches of Papa Dino and Arthur while saving Max, Eiji, Shadow, and the rest of his friends. And stop Papa Dino from becoming one of the most powerful men on the planet and turning over the horrible power of Banana Fish to the US Government. Oh yes, and the revenge. You can't forget the revenge.<br />Five volumes in, Banana Fish is still going strong, and still has enough allure to keep you wondering what's going to happen next. With only one volume left in the series, I am very eager to see how Yoshida wraps up the story. This has been another excellent installation in the Banana Fish series.	2002-07-06
US	52512259	RLGHF12SCPFBQ	1569314381	84548268	Banana Fish, Vol. 3	Books	4	4	4	N	N	On the run and searching for the truth.	It seems that trouble follows Ash, though he does leave a trail for it to follow. Volume 3 starts with Ash still in prison, where he's being held for a murder he didn't commit, and where he's being dogged by minions of the man who framed him. Fellow prisonmate Max Lobo has declared himself to be Ash's protector, and Ash doesn't seem to have much say in the matter. Once Ash learns about his brother Griffin's fate, however, he is happy to take Lobo's (and his lawyer's) help to get out of prison and on his way.<br />And that, of course, is when the real fun begins.<br />Determined to help, Eiji finds new and interesting resources in himself and helps Ash make his escape... and his assault on the enemy. When things fail to go as planned, a newly reunited crew finds themselves on the run and looking for answers. Where their search takes them opens up more of Ash's past and gives us a better idea of how Ash turned out the way he is, and why he is so loyal to Griffin.<br />There are still lots of secrets left in Banana Fish, however. For instance, what, exactly, is Banana Fish? What is the connection to the man who died at Ash's feet in Volume 1? Why is Ibe so protective of Eiji? And what about those suspicious suicides? What is Papa Dino going to do now?<br />Like the previous two volumes, Volume 3 of Banana Fish leaves you wanting more and wondering about the future of the characters. A great read all around.	2002-07-06
US	52512259	RSNF32S75AI67	1569313695	84548268	Banana Fish, Vol. 2	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Our hero goes to prison...	If you thought that Ash's station in life was tenuous in Volume 1 of Banana Fish, you'll find that it's taken a distinct turn for the worse in Volume 2. His best friend is dead, killed by a monster from Ash's childhood, who himself turns up dead, and Ash is framed for the murder. In prison for a crime he did not commit, Ash must find a way to survive the dangers of prison. What Ash learns about his unwanted prison protector does nothing to help him come to terms with what has happened to his brother, or to finding the truth about the elusive \\"Banana Fish.\\"<br />The second volume of Banana Fish continues the tale of Ash and the tumultuous life he leads in his attempts to survive life in the youth gangs of New York City and to find out what happened to his brother in jungles of Vietnam. Ash has a number of people looking out for him, much to his dismay, but he's going to need all the help he can get, as there are an equal or greater number of people who'd like to see him dead. Character conflict and mystery drive this story, and I suspect I will remain hooked throughout the rest of the series.<br />Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to read Volume 3.	2002-07-05
US	52512259	R21XKP44O5N0PW	038079294X	129263486	A Signal Shattered	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Chemistry, physics, metaphor, with a bit of zen thrown in.	I think the first thing that you must know about this book is that you should really read the book that came before it, Signal to Noise, also by Eric S. Nylund. Without the backstory, I think that this complex book would become even more confusing, and the first book was a good read on its own.<br />This book starts with all of humanity reduced to a handful of refugees scattered across space (I did say you should read the first book first, didn't I?). The catalyst who brought about the end of the world is Jack Potter, mathematician, cryptographer, and middle-man. And it is now up to Jack to save what remains of the human race. As if this task wasn't daunting enough, Jack must do this while battling such trifiling details as lack of oxygen, planets with insufficient rotational power to be of use (you'll see), two former best friends who seem to want him dead, a bizarre neurological disorder attacking everyone he knows, one or more fellow refugees who seem to want him dead, and oh yeah, at least one exceedingly power alien who wants him dead... or enslaved.<br />If you're going to read this book, be prepared to give it a careful read. It's certainly a worthwhile novel, but it demands attention otherwise details will slip by that will prove to be important later. The central theme of metaphor and illusion can make the story confusing and chaotic at times, though I believe that is the intent, and it reflects character turmoil well. I'm not entirely sure how I feel about the ending, but that is something that you'll have to learn about and decide for yourselves.	2002-07-05
US	52512259	RX6B6E49W6A26	1569313202	854039462	Banana Fish, Vol. 1	Books	4	9	9	N	N	What is the Banana Fish?	Volume 1 of Banana Fish is certainly an intriguing introduction to a series involving youth gangs, an all-but-comatose Vietnam vet, the NYPD, a pair of Japanese reporters, the mafia, and a series of mysterious suicides. What more could you want from your manga?<br />This volume doesn't do anything in the way of answering questions, but it certainly does a good job of asking them. How is Papa Dino connected to what happened to Ash's brother in Vietnam? What's the deal with the mysterious suicides? What does Arthur think he's going to get out of all of this? What is Marvin's real interest in Ash? What is Eiji going to do now?<br />Even though Banana Fish is technically a shojo manga (girls' comic), I don't see it. The themes are very masculine (street gangs, police, and the mafia), and there's certainly enough violence to keep any adolescent male happy. In addition to the rough-and-tumble world, however, there is a storyline with enough mystery to keep you wanting more.<br />I am looking forward to Volume 2.	2002-07-05
US	52512259	R1KN4GZYIVBZAF	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tragedy at the top of the world.	I think that, like with all of the extreme, high-duration sports, climbing Everest takes a certain kind of dogged insanity, a focused intensity that goes beyond the edge of normal. While the average person may understand the climber who looks at Everest and thinks, &quot;I must climb that,&quot; I don't think that many of us understand the compulsion to carry through with it. The tens of thousands of dollars, the training, the physical and mental rigors of not just the climb, but also the lack of oxygen. And, of course, the danger. I'm sure that the danger is part of what draws some of these alpinist to tackle Everest, though I think it would be vastly and unfairly oversimplifying things.<br />In 1996, John Krakauer was commissioned by Outside Magazine to do a piece on the commercialization of Everest and to join renowned high-altitude guide Rob Hall's commercial expedition. While an accomplished climber, Krakauer did not have any significant high-altitude experience, and (like the rest of the high-altitude neophites) found the transition difficult. Krakauer writes both of his personal experiences and of his observations of his fellow teammates and of the other expedition groups on the mountain.<br />The tale told in this book is harrowing, and has stuck with me. This was my second reading of Into Thin Air, and it still has a profound affect on me. The combination of physical exhaustion and mental dedication combined with the high altitude (and thus low oxygen), bitter cold, and blinding sun would have been near enough to break most people. But then throw the emotional difficulties of this particular excursion into the mix, the choices that each person had to make, and having to live with the outcomes of those choices, up to and including the loss of life... I don't know how one recovers from something like that. I think that Krakauer expanded his article into this book to try to find closure, but I think it's equally obvious that he can't attain peace.<br />This is more than an book about adventure on the world's tallest peak. This is a story of human fraility, and fallibility, especially when placed in one of the world's most unforgiving settings.is more than an book about adventure on the world's tallest peak. This is a story of human fraility, and fallibility, especially when placed in one of the world's most unforgiving settings.	2002-06-30
US	52512259	R1BLIG5509Q6YW	092999812X	103664542	Frumpy the Clown, Volume 2: Fat Lady Sings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Alas, poor Frumpy. I knew him well.	There isn't much more that I can say about Frumpy the Clown: Volume 2, that I didn't say in my review about Frumpy the Clown: Volume 1. It's more of the same, wonderful, caring, sarcastic, understanding, slovenly, compassionate, bitter clown. The major difference between Volume 1 (Freaking Out the Neighbors) and Volume 2 (The Fat Lady Sings) is that, sadly, Volume 2 is the final Frumpy the Clown volume. So get your fill.	2002-06-23
US	52512259	R1TSJ6HGURA66	192999818X	573477603	The Adventures of Barry Ween Boy Genius 3	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Barry Ween, Friend to Apes	Barry Ween's at it again. Rather, the world around Barry is at it again, and the time has once again come for him to save the day, in one form or another. (It's tough being the world's smartest entity. It's even worse when you're a ten-year-old boy.)<br />First, Barry finds that the unusually large ape in the local zoo is not entirely what he seems. In the process of finding out exactly what's going on, Jeremy once again commits Barry to a course of action he otherwise would not have followed. But then, that's what Jeremy's there for, right? Once that crisis is averted, Barry must save his family from the terrors of the woods. (Haven't you always wanted to know the truth behind bigfoot?) And if that isn't enough, there's a school dance in Barry's future, and something about an ebola-infected monkey.<br />As with the rest of the Barry Ween series, this volume has all the craziness surrounding a foul- mouthed, world-dominating, charmingly insecure, arrogant, 10 year old genius and continues to hold on to those solid bits of humanity and sympathy that make Barry such a loveable character.	2002-06-22
US	52512259	R13FEGN32KIH87	1891830198	803391257	Box Office Poison	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great example of the "Day in the Life" genre.	At 602 pages, Box Office Poison may seem like a big reading project to tackle, but once you start reading, you'll find that the pages just fly by and that time passes in leaps and bounds.<br />This book follows the lives of a variety of characters, most of them in some way related to or otherwise attached to the lives of our hero, Sherman Davies. Sherman is a 23-year-old aspiring writer living in Brooklyn. To support his aspirations, he works at Matthew's Bookstore, a job he despises but is unwilling to leave for any number of reasons. While learning about Sherman's life, you are introduced to any number of people, including his girlfriend (Dorothy: slob, editor, possible alcoholic, vaguely mentally unbalanced), his roommates (Jane: comic book artist,<br />long-time significant other of Sherman's other roommate, Stephen: history professor and nut), his best friend (Ed: aspiring comic book artist, virgin, assistant to cartoonist Irving Flavor: crotchety old man, down-on-his-luck cartoonist), and innumerable other characters, big and small.<br />While Box Office Poision is one linear story, it is told in a series of vignettes, each embodying some small part of the overall story arc. I am particularly fond of the \\"question pages\\" where a single question (What was your worst job ever? What is your secret talent?) is asked, and various characters respond in a single panel. The sub-division of the story facilitates the speed of the read and leaves you constantly wondering what happened next. I very much enjoyed this format.<br />As for the story itself? It's great. With the wide cast of characters, most anyone can find someone to relate to, made all the more easy by the fact that most of the characters are very real. We've all known an Ed, or a Stephen, or a Dorothy. Maybe not in those &lt;i>exact&lt;/i> incarnations, but certainly close enough to provide a deeper level of understand to the whole saga. The story takes a rather up-front view to most of the topics it covers: love, break-ups, sex, jobs, friendships, contracts, alcohol, infidelity, obsessions, and more.<br />Box Office Poison is definitely worth reading, and I think that I'm going to find that it's worth even more: a re-read. It's easy to get lost in something the size of this work, and part of the joy of something like that is that you can go back and reread and find things you missed the first time. I'm looking forward to it.break-ups, sex, jobs, friendships, contracts, alcohol, infidelity, obsessions, and more.<br />Box Office Poison is definitely worth reading, and I think that I'm going to find that it's worth even more: a re-read. It's easy to get lost in something the size of this work, and part of the joy of something like that is that you can go back and reread and find things you missed the first time. I'm looking forward to it.	2002-06-22
US	52512259	R1Q6EN60ZXFJMT	0295961902	469886734	Desert Exile: The Uprooting of a Japanese American Family (Classics of Asian American Literature)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	For those who think "things like that can't happen here."	While everyone has heard of the Holocaust and of the horrors inflicted upon the Jewish peoples during World War II, fewer people seem aware of the shameful treatment of the Japanese and Japanese-Americans in the United States following Pearl Harbor. While the American 'internment camps' did not play the same role as the concentration camps of Germany, and while the Issei and Nisei were not exterminated en masse as the Jews were, the actions taken by the American government with regard to \\"enemy alien\\" Japanese was nonetheless deploreable, and should not be forgotten, lest such a thing happen again.<br />Yoshiko Uchida had been living a fairly normal life with her Nisei sister and Issei family in Berkeley, California. Though she was aware of her Japanese heritage (sometimes moreso than others), Yoshiko never considered herself to be anything but an American. So when the American government tells her and her family that they have 10 days to report for relocation, Yoshiko suddenly finds her entire identity thrown into turmoil. If she isn't American, and she isn't Japanese, then who is she?<br />Much of this story was familiar to me, because I have read The Invisible Thread, another book by Uchida covering the same topic, but written for children. In each book, she speaks with anger, with sadness, and with fondness. She speaks of the confusion felt by the Nisei at being treated as criminals - actually, with less rights than criminals - by their own country. She speaks of the horrific living conditions at Tanforan and Topaz. She speaks of the fortitude of the Issei and Nisei, who meet the challenges present to them with typical Japanese aplomb.<br />There are any number of books out there by survivors of the Japanese internment during World War II. Uchida's is particularly well told, and should be read by anyone who think that \\"things like that couldn't happen in America.\\" This is particularly pertinent now, when we seem to be in danger of following the same slippery slope.lope.	2002-06-22
US	52512259	R3C6W7TXVC74LU	1929998058	235623976	The Adventures of Barry Ween: Boy Genius 2.0	Books	4	2	2	N	N	No rest for the genius.	This volume collects issues 1-3 of the Oni Press comics series The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius 2.0, and continues with the themes set forth by the first volume in the series. These themes are, of course, &quot;Barry Ween is a genius. Jeremy is a fool. The first is a secret. The second is not.&quot;<br />Ok, ok. There's more to it than that. Barry Ween is not your average 10-year-old. He is, in fact, the smartest person on the planet. Understanding that, were the truth of his genius be revealed he would likely spend the rest of his life being researched and doing the bidding of the government, Barry has taken great pains to hide his true nature from his peers. In fact, the only person who knows about Barry's staggering intellect is Barry's best friend, Jeremy. Jeremy is... not a genius... and is responsible for complicating any number of the situations the boys find themselves in. But, you know, they do say that opposites attract.<br />In this collection, Barry and Jeremy work on doing 10 impossible things before breakfast. First, they must help an alien who has crash- landed in Barry's back yard before the feds or the alien's employers find them. Then, as if saving all of humanity weren't enough, an unfortunate accident with a matter transporter sends Jeremy (and thus, Barry) back in time to the un-romantic days of the Old West. Finally, Barry has to subdue the government when they take undue interest in him.<br />Really, all in a day's work when you're a boy genius.<br />Barry Ween, Boy Genius is not for the faint of heart. There's a great deal of violence, and even more in the way of colorful language. But, underneath the foul-mouthed, light-saber-weilding, world-dominating exterior, Barry Ween is a 10 year old boy who loves his best friend and wants to be accepted by his 'peers.' A fun read, all around.	2002-06-22
US	52512259	RAV8FF9PAZ1CM	1892597152	892252088	Strangers In Paradise Book 10: Tropic Of Desire	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Should I die before I wake...	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 10: Tropic of Desire compiles the following issues into one collection: Volume 3, Issue 39: You're a Loser, Freddie Femur; Volume 3, Issue 40: Lily; Volume 3, Issue 41: Something About You; Volume 3, Issue 42: When Dreamers Wake, and Volume 3, Issue 43: If I Cry Before I Wake.<br />I very much recommend reading the first nine volumes of this series (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, It's a Good Life, Love Me Tender, Immortal Enemies, High School, Sanctuary, My Other Life, and Child or Rage) as they provide vital backstory. I'd go so far as to say that, without reading the first nine, this volume will be completely incomprehensible. And, besides, all of the previous volumes are entirely worth reading.<br />Wow. Tropic of Desire has something in it to hurt everybody's head! From Freddie Femur's Charles Schultz daydreams to Katchoo's soul searching to Francine's conversations with her mother's preacher to the final chapter... Wow. The final chapter. I won't ruin it for you, but suffice it to say that I don't know whether I'm angry, eagerly anticipating more, or just confused.<br />Tropic of Desire fails to answer a lot of questions that have been raised in the past nine volumes of Strangers in Paradise, and in fact seems to set into motion and declare as fact story elements which are completely contradictory to what we've seen before. This is not a volume which ties up loose ends. Instead, it takes all of the raveling strings that are flailing about, selects the most beautiful strands, and ties those together, leaving the rest to trail behind and annoy those who care about such things.<br />But wow. If you've read this far into the Strangers in Paradise series, then nothing's going to stop you from reading this volume. Not that I think you should be stopped. But don't expect all the answers.<br />(And I decidedly am eagerly awaiting the next collection.)	2002-06-16
US	52512259	R2H69CB3PIXONL	189259711X	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 8: My Other Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	How will they recover from this one?	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 8: My Other Life compiles the following issues into one collection: Volume 3, Issue 25: Bikini Beach; Volume 3, Issue 26: Running Late; Volume 3, Issue 27: Dark the Sun; Volume 3, Issue 28: A Field of Lions; Volume 3, Issue 29: My Other Life; and Volume 3, Issue 30: I'm Open.<br />I very much recommend reading the first seven volumes of this series (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, It's a Good Life, Love Me Tender, Immortal Enemies, High School), and Sanctuary as they provide vital backstory (and are well worth reading in their own right).<br />Katchoo, David and Francine head to the beach to relax and recover from their recent misadventures before heading to New York so David can take the mantle of the Parker legacy left to him by Darcy. But things aren't all so well with the three pals. Francine feels more and more the third wheel, and decides to let Katchoo and David go on their own.<br />When the worst happens, Katchoo and Francine realize that all they've ever wanted was to be with each other, but again, Katchoo's past rears its ugly, powerful head. Determined to protect Francine at all costs, Katchoo finishes what she started, widening the rift that has been growing between them that will lead to their decade apart.<br />Francine is left alone with her mother, to start a new life, without the one person who has always been by her side. Katchoo, too, has choices to make. What will they do, these two best friends suddenly alone?<br />My Other Life deftly carries on the story of separation started in Sanctuary. I found this collection to be less tense than Sanctuary, but no less powerful. The last pages leave you aching for more, wondering what else is going to befall these people you've grown to care about. More wonderful drama and art from Terry Moore.	2002-06-14
US	52512259	RRP963F7AMUGB	1892597136	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 9: Child Of Rage	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This couldn't be the end of the story, could it?	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 9: Child of Rage compiles the following issues into one collection: Volume 3, Issue 31: The Black of Your Heart; Volume 3, Issue 32: Kings and Queens; Volume 3, Issue 34: Crossroads; Volume 3, Issue 35: Pretty Maids All in a Row; Volume 3, Issue 36: Requiem; Volume 3, Issue 37: Child of Rage; and Volume 3, Issue 38: Shhh!. (Volume 3, Issue 33: Not With My Cape, You Don't! is a special issue and is not included in this compilation.)<br />I very much recommend reading the first eight volumes of this series (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, It's a Good Life, Love Me Tender, Immortal Enemies, High School, Sanctuary, and My Other Life) as they provide vital backstory (and are well worth reading in their own right.<br />David's on the road to recovery. Casey's still in love with David. Francine has lost thirty-three pounds and is engaged to Brad, the loving intern. Everything is well, except... where's Katchoo?<br />The time has come for Katchoo to face her past, time to do or die. The road before her is short, dangerous, and full of emotional and physical terrors. But if she can make it, then maybe, just maybe, she can escape the horrors she's spent the last seven years of her life running from. Along the way, we'll learn about secrets she would probably rather not share about her past, about her family, about her soul.<br />Tagging along for the tempestuous ride are, of course, David and Francine. We learn some of their secrets, too, and they learn much about themselves, more than they probably wanted to know. Sometimes the worst thing you can learn about yourself is the truth, especially when you find it in a moment of rage, when you thought you had buried the past, and forgotten your own secrets.<br />In a whirlwind tale of betrayal and backstabbing, double-crosses and deadly arguments, we learn the answers to many of the questions we've had about Francine, David, and Katchoo from the beginning. I'm eager to read the next compilation, to find out what happens from here. It couldn't possibly lead to ... peace?the next compilation, to find out what happens from here. It couldn't possibly lead to ... peace?	2002-06-14
US	52512259	R3DT76RRL9KBQW	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	4	4	9	N	N	There's a little bit of Tracey in every woman.	Tracey Spadolini is a remarkably believable person. She's 24, overweight, awkward, running low on self-esteem, stuck in a dead-end job where she gets no respect, and worried about her lukewarm lovelife with her long-time boyfriend Will. She's not completely alone in the world, however. Her best friends Kate (the ultra-stylish) and Raphael... would do anything for her... if they remember.<br />Tracey finds her life turned upside down when Will heads off for three months to work summer stock theater... without her. Alone in the stifling summer New York City heat, Tracey takes stock of her life, and decides to make some changes. Lose weight. Unclutter. Read the classics. You know, the usual. What she discovers about herself, and about Will, along the way almost makes up for the lack of air conditioning in her apartment.<br />I found Markham's characters to be mostly believable, though you don't get any real depth on any of them except Tracey. While this isn't any great work of literature, I think that Tracey's plight will resonate with many women, who share many of the same concerns. As such, you might take strength from Tracey's triumphs, but take care with her low points.<br />This is a quick light read with more humor than tension, though you may find yourself wincing at some of the humor if it hits too close to home.	2002-06-12
US	52512259	R3SZJYRN0I6TRQ	1892597098	68461041	7: Strangers In Paradise: Sanctuary	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Some of the best Strangers in Paradise yet.	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 7: Sanctuary compiles the following issues into one collection: Volume 3, Issue 17: My Old Addiction; Volume 3, Issue 18: If I Wake Up; Volume 3, Issue 19: Nothing Gold Can Stay; Volume 3, Issue 20: Talk to Me; Volume 3, Issue 21: The Silence of Friends; Volume 3, Issue 22: Years to Go; Volume 3, Issue 23: Fear of Swimming; and Volume 3: Issue 24: I, Me, Mine.<br />I very much recommend reading the first six volumes of this series (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, It's a Good Life, Love Me Tender, Immortal Enemies, and High School), as they provide vital backstory (and are well worth reading in their own right) (check my profile for reviews of these other collections).<br />Wow. Sanctuary is, in my opinion, the most powerful, most emotionally-charged Strangers in Paradise collection yet. You know that something has gone horribly awry when the book starts and you see Francine, much older, much more broken down by life, and without Katchoo. (If these scenes look familar, don't worry, you're not imagining things. They're much the same opening scenes as used in Strangers in Paradise: Volume 4: Love Me Tender.) There is something deeply wrong with Francine, a soul-searing emptiness that is slowly killing her spirit to live, and to love. Seeing her only daughter wither away, Francine's mother does the only thing she can do: she calls in the big guns.<br />The majority of this collection is spent reviewing the events leading up to the ten-year schism between the best friends. As you can imagine, there's a lot of pain, a lot of anguish, a lot of misunderstanding, a lot of violence (well, Katchoo is involved...), and a lot of stubbornnes. And in the midst of all this, Katchoo gets famous, Casey finds a new love, Freddie Femur once again proves himself to be slime, Francine learns something about herself, and David gets a surprise (or three) of his own.<br />One thing I did find disconcerting throughout Sanctuary was the apparent slight change in artwork. I found the changes in Katchoo most disturbing. She didn't... feel... like Katchoo to me. In fact, there were several times where I thought Casey more resembled Katchoo than Katchoo did. Very odd.<br />I highly recommend Sanctuary to any fan of solid storytelling about more-or-less believable characters (well, believable characters who have lead unbelievable lives?) with strong passions and strong loyalties.arent slight change in artwork. I found the changes in Katchoo most disturbing. She didn't... feel... like Katchoo to me. In fact, there were several times where I thought Casey more resembled Katchoo than Katchoo did. Very odd. <br />I highly recommend Sanctuary to any fan of solid storytelling about more-or-less believable characters (well, believable characters who have lead unbelievable lives?) with strong passions and strong loyalties.	2002-06-11
US	52512259	R38R787QJ2LVET	0425182878	853678814	Chosen Prey (Lucas Davenport, No 12)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A calmer, more cerebral Lucas Davenport.	The twelfth book in John Sandford's Prey series, and Lucas Davenport is at it again. When some erotic drawings start turning up in unusual places, and when similar drawings are dug out of a long- dormant homicide investigation, Lucas mobilizes his team of misfits and starts looking for the pattern. Twelve books haven't changed his methods much; he's still brash, still headstrong, still prone to leaping before looking. What has changed is his love life, in that it seems to be limited to one woman... maybe on a permantent basis?<br />But even romance takes a back seat when Davenport is on a case. He finds some unlikely allies from out of state, and finds more than he ever wanted buried in a remote hillside. Who is choking these women to death? Why the obsession with short blonde women? And what's the art connection? Can Davenport find out before another life is lost?<br />For those who have read the Lucas Davenport / Prey books before, this book has a couple of differences from the previous books. Far less flirting for one. Not nearly as much attention paid to the female form... at least, not by Davenport. Also, there's less action throughout the novel as there have been in previous books in the series. This installment is much more cerebral and thoughtful, which may not be a welcome change of pace to Prey fans.<br />For those who have't read the series, it isn't really necessary to read the previous books. You'll be missing backstory, but it's not hard to figure it out. These aren't great works of literature, but they're fairly solid supermarket-bookrack mysteries.	2002-06-11
US	52512259	R3GXXAI2N1TZC6	1892597071	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 6: High School (Strangers in Paradise (Graphic Novels)) (Bk. 6)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ah, high school.	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 6: High School is the next trade paperback collection in Terry Moore's comic series about Francine Peters and Katina (Katchoo) Choovanksi. This book collects the following issues: Volume 3, Issue 13: Prosody; Volume 3, Issue 14: Passion Cry; Volume 3, Issue 15: Cowboys and Cowgirls; and the inexplicable Volume 3, Issue 16: Princess Warrior.<br />Francine and Katchoo have always been a study in contrasts. Francine is soft, chubby, and flighty, prone to fits of giddiness and a constant worrier. Katchoo is hard, lean, and dangerous, prone to fits of violence, and constantly vigilant. That these two should be best friends baffles, until you delve into their high school years.<br />Does anyone remember high school fondly? At least, anyone real? The jocks and the cheerleaders may remember riding high, but for the rest of us, high school was one long unending study in awkwardness, humiliation, and inadequacy. The same holds true for Francine and Katchoo, though in wildly different ways.<br />For Francine, torture came in the forms of being a klutz, always being the odd one out, being the starry-eyed romantic when she's just a chubby girl on the fringe. Francine has a family who loves her, a mother who feeds her whenever something goes wrong, a father who spends an awful lot of time at the office, and a brother more interested in college life than his little sister.<br />Katchoo, on the other hand, is a self-declared outcast. She smokes, she rides a motorcycle, she is just as likely to punch you as to acknowledge you, and generally has no use for the people serving the same four-year term at puncture high. But where Francine's family provides (in their own way) comfort when the chips are down, Katchoo's family is likely to be the reason the chips are down.<br />Maybe it's not so surprising that these two girls find one another, and take solace in beig outcasts together.<br />It's interesting to finally see in print some of the things that have been referred to in passing in the earlier issues of Strangers in Paradise. It seems that we well and truly can't escape our pasts (which all good SiP readers should know by now, anyway). And, you get to see Francine as Xena, and Katchoo as the sidekick (don't tell her that).<br />Another winner from Terry Moore!have been referred to in passing in the earlier issues of Strangers in Paradise. It seems that we well and truly can't escape our pasts (which all good SiP readers should know by now, anyway). And, you get to see Francine as Xena, and Katchoo as the sidekick (don't tell her that). <br />Another winner from Terry Moore!	2002-06-08
US	52512259	R1N0X4ZWL3EL5M	1551668033	194529307	Delayed Diagnosis	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Good solid medical mystery.	I bought this book because I had read its sequel (Prescribed Danger) without realizing it was the second book in a series. I was intrigued enough by the characters and the backstory that I went back and got this book, even though I already knew 'who done it.'<br />As the blurb describes, Rhea Lynch is a doctor who has not much in the way of biological family, but she is fiercely loyal to her informally adopted family. That's why, when Rhea comes home to find her life-long friend Marisa all but dead and oddly isolated, there's nothing that can stop Rhea from finding out the truth about what's happened to Marisa.<br />Delayed Diagnosis was published by Mira Books, which is a division of Harlequin Romance, so it should come as no surprise to anyone that Rhea has a love interest or two in her life. However, affairs of the heart are not the focus of the story. Instead, the mystery and the medicine and the bonds of friendship and family come to the fore. And the dogs. Don't forget the dogs.<br />I found the Hunter's characters to be brash, colorful, and charming, often all at the same time. Granted, there is a certain level of cliche, but I don't know of many books with Southern characters who don't suffer from that sort of thing. Hunter conveys the concern and the anger and the fear of a close-knit family and community when faced with such personal horror fairly well.<br />Like I said, I already knew who the culprit (or culprits) was before I read this book, but I still felt that the denouement was well handled, though it was possible for a careful reader to have ascertained the ending well before the book ended.<br />All in all, I found this to be a fairly good medical mystery of the bookrack variety.	2002-06-08
US	52512259	R2HMN6P74D8KEE	1892597047	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 5: Immortal Enemies (Bk. 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What's a girl to do?	Strangers in Paradise: Volume 5: Immortal Enemies is the next trade paperback collection of Terry Moore's wonderful comic. This book collects the following issues: Volume 3, Issue 6: The Elephant Graveyard; Volume 3, Issue 7: The Very Thing That Makes Her Rich; Volume 3, Issue 8, I Believe You; Volume 3, Issue 9: The Loneliness of Madmen; Volume 3, Issue 10: Suddenly; Volume 3, Issue 11: Immortal Enemies; and Volume 3, Issue 12: The Danger of the Night. (If you have not read the first four volumes (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, It's a Good Life, and Love Me Tender), I recommend you do so, or you'll be missing vital backstory.)<br />What's a girl to do? It seems that no matter what Katchoo does, she can't win. Never one to have many friends, Katchoo realizes that she's lost one of the few people she's ever felt she could trust (slow though that may have been in coming), and, worse, that it was her fault. How can she expect David to open up to her when she never tells him anything about herself? Determined to set things right, Katchoo goes to find David, the only way she can... by asking the dreaded Darcy Parker for a favor.<br />How far will Katchoo go to find David? How far will Darcy go to bend Katchoo to her whims? How far will David go to save Katchoo? And how far will Francine go just to find out what's going on?<br />Immortal Enemies continues the stories of Katchoo's attempts (and failures) to escape her past. It seems that there's nothing she can do to get away from mistakes that continue to haunt her, and endangering her friends. As with the rest of the series, the book is rife with emotional conflict and physical violence, and puts our heroes and heroines in any number of impossible situations.<br />If you've enjoyed the previous volumes of the series, you're sure to love Immortal Enemies.	2002-06-08
US	52512259	R1O79PEEG161A9	1892597039	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 4: Love Me Tender	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More of the characters you've come to adore.	The next installment of Strangers in Paradise, Volume 4: Love Me Tender contains the following comics: Volume 3, Issue 1: Love Me Tender; Volume 3, Issue 2: A Beautiful Day; Volume 3, Issue 3: She Has Reasons; Volume 3, Issue 4: Dance; Volume 3: Issue 5: Stranger in Paradise. If you haven't read the first three volumes (The Collected Strangers in Paradise, I Dream of You, and It's a Good Life), you should do so before reading this book. At least, I hate jumping into a story mid-stream.<br />The beginning of this comic really threw me for a loop. I mean, I think that's Francine, but ... maybe not? Or maybe she's the kid? What? Where are my beloved characters! Oh. Wait. There they are. Panic averted, persistence pays off.<br />Katchoo and Francine, back from Hawaii (see It's a Good Life and evicted from their home, move into a teeny garage apartment provided - free of charge - by Margie McCoy (who you might remember from Volume 1). It's time for life to get back to normal for these two, and they take their best shots.<br />Francine re-enters the working world, which turns out to be anything but normal. Between the manic, stress-loving boss, the artiste director, and the conniving co-worker (you remember Rachel, don't you?), and the wardrobe (oh my), Francine is in for more than she had ever anticipated. And she can take little comfort in the fact that Katchoo's life isn't settling down any more readily.<br />Katchoo, who is singularly unsuited to working life in the regular world, decides it is time to go back to her art. And David would be the perfect subject... even if he doesn't think so. But turmoil sets in when David has second thoughts, and it may be too much for their relationship to handle. What will happen there?<br />All in all, this is more of what we've come to expect from Terry Moore: Tight storytelling with interesting characters who get into situations that make your head spin. Good stuff!	2002-06-02
US	52512259	R1O5Q0D6A7VM3P	1892597020	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 3: Its A Good Life (Bk. 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Defining relationships and setting boundaries.	This is the third Strangers in Paradise trade paperback, and compiles the following issues into one volume: Volume 2, Issue 10: The Homecoming; Volume 2, Issue 11: Queen of Hearts; Volume 2, Issue 12: Goodbye; Volume 2, Issue 12: It's a Good Life. If you have not read the previous two volumes (Volume One and I Dream of You), I recommend you do so before reading this volume, otherwise you will be missing vital backstory.<br />This collection continues with the stories of Katchoo (the tempestuous blonde with a heck of a past), Francine (the neurotic brunette with self-confidence problems), and David (the keeper of the torch for Katchoo). All three are in need of some peace and quiet and recovery time from their adventures in I Dream of You, but the world isn't content to let them get it.<br />Above all else, this issue is about defining relationships. Where do Francine and Katchoo stand? How about David and Katchoo? Can Katchoo forgive him for the role he played in her betrayal and injury? What about Freddie, who's decided that he can't live without Francine? Does Casey even figure into all of this? And what is it with these people's fascination with Hawaii, anyway?<br />If you're reading Volume Three because you enjoyed Volume One, you'll probably be pretty pleased with the story. If you're looking for more of the over-the-top intrigue and violence and mystery of Volume Two, this book is significantly more calm (at least, in that sense) from the previous volume. All in all, however, it's a great continuation of an interesting story.	2002-05-30
US	52512259	R3PSE816J9KJYW	1892597012	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 2: I Dream Of You	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Learn more about Francine, Katchoo, and David.	While the jacket blurb does a decent job of describing the general gist of Strangers in Paradise: Volume 2, I don't know that it covers a lot of the tone of the book. There is a lot of material covered in this book, which makes sense, since it compiles nine comics into a single volume: Volume 2, Issue 1: I Dream of You; Volume 2, Issue 2: Someone to Watch Over Me; Volume 2, Issue 3: Echoes of Home; Volume 2, Issue 4: Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?; Volume 2, Issue 5: Something I Can't Hear; Volume 2, Issue 6: Tic Toc; Volume 2, Issue 7: I Talk to the Wind; Volume 2, Issue 8: Do You Remember Yesterdays?; and Volume 2, Issue 9: A Good Night's Sleep.<br />(For those who have not read Strangers in Paradise, Volume 1, I recommend that you do so before reading this.)<br />The book starts with Katchoo returning from a mysterious prolonged trip about which she will not speak to find that Francine has been coping with the rather explosive breakup with her ex-boyfriend Freddie by eating. And eating. And eating some more. And it seems that, as far as David is concerned, absence does indeed make the heart grow fonder, and his unrequited love for Katchoo has not abated.<br />But Francine's ballooning weight and David's infatuation are the least of Katchoo's problems. The world seems to be conspiring to make sure she never forgets her past, and that she - and her friends - will pay for her sins. First, the mysterious trip to Canada. Then, she appears to have acquired a follower, one who doesn't have her best interests in mind. But even more frightening than Katchoo's follower is the mysterious dark woman for whom he works: Mrs. Darcy Parker and her minions, Bambi and Samantha. They will stop at nothing to bring Katchoo back into the fold, including using her friends as bait.<br />But before that, a whole slew of other problems pop up. For instance, if you think Francine is neurotic, you should meet her mother! And running into Freddie and his new fiancee doesn't help her state of mind much, either. And who says that Katchoo can be the only one with secrets? There may be more to David than meets the eye. And do you remember our friend Detective Walsh from Volume 1? Well, if you're a fan, never fear! You get to see more of the moustachioed investigator as he tries to track down the trackers. And what's with Emma and this house in Hana, anyway?<br />All in all, this volume is much more action- and emotion-packed than Volume 1, and also has a much higher allocation of violence. You get to know the primary characters in this tale (Francine, Katchoo, and David) much better this time around, and begin to feel their pains. If you enjoyed the first volume (you did read the first volume first, right?), I suspect you'll be completely hooked by the time you're done with Volume 2.of mind much, either. And who says that Katchoo can be the only one with secrets? There may be more to David than meets the eye. And do you remember our friend Detective Walsh from Volume 1? Well, if you're a fan, never fear! You get to see more of the moustachioed investigator as he tries to track down the trackers. And what's with Emma and this house in Hana, anyway? <br />All in all, this volume is much more action- and emotion-packed than Volume 1, and also has a much higher allocation of violence. You get to know the primary characters in this tale (Francine, Katchoo, and David) much better this time around, and begin to feel their pains. If you enjoyed the first volume (you did read the first volume first, right?), I suspect you'll be completely hooked by the time you're done with Volume 2.	2002-05-30
US	52512259	R2KN9IAWDX5D7L	1892597004	397982582	1: The Collected Strangers In Paradise	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A tantalizing introduction to three intriguing characters.	This first compilation of Terry Moore's Strangers in Paradise collects the first three issues of the comic (Volume 1, Issue 1: Breaking up is Hard to Do; Volume 1, Issue 2: Katchoo's Revenge; and Volume 1, Issue 3: Busted!) into one volume. We are introduced to two long-time friends, Francine Peters and Katina \\"Katchoo\\" Choovanski, as well as assorted other characters such as Francine's boyfriend (well, at the start) Freddie Femur and the smitten David Qin. So many relationships! Francine is in love with Freddie, Katchoo is in love with Francine, David is in love with Katchoo, and Freddie is mostly in love with himself.<br />The volume revolves around Francine's relationship with Freddie. The sexual tension, the infidelity, the breakup. Then, there's Francine's reaction to the situation, which spurs Katchoo's reaction to the situation, which spurs Freddie's reaction to Katchoo's reaction. It's all very cause-and-effect.<br />The interaction and by-play between characters tends to be fairly fast-paced, with everyone reaecting to the world around them. The one exception seems to be David Qin, Katchoo's unwanted admirer, who seems to take on the role of observer in all of the drama unfolding around Francine and Katchoo.<br />What strikes me about this comic is that it's about normal people in (mostly) normal situations. Francine tries to deal with a breakup. Katchoo and David deal with unrequited love. Freddie is a jerk... There are no magic powers. There are no fantastic worlds. It's just about ... people, living their lives.<br />The exception to this rule seems to be Katchoo herself. Her methods of dealing with alarm clocks must make the alarm clock manufacturers of the world very happy. She seems to be unnaturally strong. She has what the politically correct might call 'anger issues.' But underneath it all, she is a friend, and a protector, willing to do anything she can to keep Francine safe, and happy, and sheltered from the ugliness of the world. Oh yeah, and she also has a felony record that the FBI won't release.<br />Interesting.d she also has a felony record that the FBI won't release. <br />Interesting.	2002-05-28
US	52512259	R1RVAEB58KY2PO	0446610607	818147619	Raveling: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	How well do you know your family?	In this jarring mystery, a psychologist by the name of Katherine DeQuincey-Joy (with a hyphen) finds herself embroiled in the tragedies and mysteries of a broken family. She quickly finds herself stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place. Pilot Airie, her patient, obviously needs her. Having suffered a psychotic episode and being diagnosed with schizophrenia, Pilot's not an incredibly reliable source. Or so Katherine continues to tell herself, because if he was, then Katherine certainly shouldn't be getting involved with Pilot's older brother Eric, whom Pilot accuses of murdering their younger sister years ago.<br />... And that's that. I don't know what to really say about this book. The writing style and perspective shifts were rather disjointed, confusing, but then, I think that was intentional. I had a gut feeling about all but the most minute details of the ending about halfway through the book, and I don't think that that came from any special talent of mine. I found myself constantly distracted by little details which were ceaselessly referred to but never explained, even as the book ended. I honestly hoped for a sloppy epilogue where the half dozen details that had been pestering me would be ironed out.<br />I can't honestly say that I would recommend this book to anyone, even readers of grocery store rack mysteries. I don't know that I would go so far as to say that my time was wasted with this book, since the style was actually unique and interesting for a while, but it's certainly not going to be reread.	2002-05-27
US	52512259	R3EUAJRLYSB4UI	1929998112	939786419	Frumpy the Clown, Vol. 1:  Freaking Out the Neighbors	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Social commentary with laughs.	I picked up this collection for two reasons. One, I really enjoyed Barry Ween, Boy Genius, which is also by Judd Winick. Two, I was working off of a friend's recommendation. Since he's the one who steered me to the aforementioned Barry Ween, I figured it was a safe bet.<br />And indeed it was.<br />As described in the back cover blurb, Frumpy is not your typical clown. He isn't jolly. He isn't ... clownish. Instead, he is a cynical, chain-smoking, vegetarian (though, this seems to waver), animal-loving, motorcycle-riding clown. And, don't forget, a favorite of every child he encounters. &quot;Sure, of course they like him. He's a clown,&quot; you might say. But that isn't it. Kids love Frumpy because Frumpy remembers that they are people, perhaps a bit on the short side, but people nonetheless.<br />There are plenty of antics in this comic, both on the part of Frumpy and on the part of the children, but there are also great human moments to remind you that not only is Frumpy not your typical clown, this isn't your standard rambunctious kids comic.<br />(Not to say there isn't plenty of rambunctious kid action. I promise you, there is.)<br />A great read, though you might want to be careful about giving this to a precocious child, as there are entirely too many pranks in the comic, which might plant seeds of ideas. =)	2002-05-26
