US	52525539	R2W7RI5FPTE2ID	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Here Come the Gods	Though immigrants brought their hopes, dreams, fears, and, yes, Gods to America, changing times have caused the once-venerated to slowly fade into obscurity. Lack of currency of the pantheon of old in this, the information age, has left the Gods in a desperate struggle to retain their relevancy. The new kids on the block, the Gods of the highway and the Internet (think that's impossibly weird? I recently read an article where Google declared a new hire their \\"Internet evangelist\\"), are drunk on their newfound popularity, want to put a squeeze on the old-school Gods and monopolize all the worship for themselves. A la Stephen King's \\"The Stand,\\" the book slowly builds to an apocalyptic showdown between both factions. Our protagonist, Shadow (guess what deity he embodies?) comes to learn that he may have a more important role than he originally thought.<br /><br />Although, on the surface, the novel treads on areas explored in many of Gaiman's previous works (dream and myth, the inverse and counter-intuitive relationship between worshipper and worshipped), the book is a serious study of the nature of faith and belief in modern America.<br /><br />There are so many `in-jokes' and hidden references here that the book demands a second or third reading to be fully appreciated. Gaiman expertly has us sympathize with even the most seemingly diabolical of characters; his cunning use of the narrator-function frequently tricks and misdirects. Much as Shadow's ever-present coin tricks, Gaiman's own sleight of hand with the story forces the reader to constantly re-evaluate their grasp of the story. And, like a true master, Gaiman isn't revealing his secrets.	2005-10-08
US	52525539	R19IP8GRQQU9IU	1563898586	702953874	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 1	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Alan Moore....Lite	With The League, Moore shows that he can put aside the overt socio-political concerns that take centre stage in some of his other writings (From Hell, V for Vendetta) and construct as good an adventure story as anyone else in the comix genre. However, as Jess Nevins' indispensable Annotations can attest (which are freely available on the Internet), there is still a tremendous amount of depth and referentiality here. This is a simultaneous homage and indictment of the nineteenth century: a paradoxical time of innocence and exploitation. Moore, as usual, proves why he's the best, by doing what others don't. Foreign languages (Arabic, Chinese) are written in foreign characters, and clever puns and double entendres are generously sprinkled throughout the text. He also cuts and pastes some of the more famous storylines of the era and reinvents them to suit his purposes. The narrator's affectations completely nail the tone and attitude of the era. A book is never just a book with Alan Moore; he always stretches the limits of the traditional graphic novel, introducing such elements here as a novella, games, and biographies of people having nothing to do with the narrative.        Truly, the artwork here is nothing short of amazing. Kevin O-Neill's colours brilliantly match the flow of the narrative, running the gamut from drab to dazzling. His full-page illustrations are immaculately detailed and very pleasing to the eye. O'Neill is no mere comix illustrator: he's a full-blown artist. His ability to effortlessly move from the abstract to the concrete is remarkable.     Pick up this book. As bizarre a conceit as a 19th century version of the Justice League of America stacked with England's more famous fictional heroes/heroines of the time merits a look. The fact that it's Alan Moore quarterbacking this experiment makes things all-the-more interesting.	2004-11-11
US	52525539	RZGS3V3MOWXI5	1563897156	46430639	Preacher VOL 09: Alamo (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Apocalyptic Revelations	\\"The end of laughter and soft lies/The end of nights we tried to die/This is the end.\\" <br /> <br />Of course, with its title, you know there will be plenty of blood and guts and death and guns (lots of those) before the conclusion. There are a lot of angry people here, and a lot of scores to settle. Interestingly, the end is not as much a finality as it is a suggestion of new beginnings.   <br /> <br /> The `Jesse as Jesus' motif is finally realized, with the notable difference, of course, of the real Jesus never having wanted to exact revenge on God. Oddly, as Jesse himself acknowledges in this book, it is precisely because of his religion, because he still thinks of himself as a preacher, that he hunts God to seek an explanation as to why He abandoned humankind.  <br /> <br />I liked the drawings by other acclaimed artists (featuring such heavyweights as Dave Gibbons and Carlos Ezquerra) at the end of the book. Not to take anything away from the quality of their work, but it really goes to show how Steve Dillon's understated and clean approach really added to the feel of the series. Though he may not be the most technically gifted of artists, Dillon has a great feel for what works and what's appropriate.  <br /> <br />This was undoubtedly one of the best long-run series in the D.C. Vertigo line, if not in all comics. However, although I found The Alamo to be very good, and definitely in keeping with the spirit of the series, it left me feeling a little flat. Ennis seemed to be treading water with the past few volumes, and this was no exception. The first couple instalments were nothing short of brilliant and set the tone of the series. Fortunately- or not- Ennis pretty much used them as his template. Not that I'm complaining, but I felt the series never really grew, and became somewhat predictable by the end.  <br />  <br />Nevertheless, I've got to say that the Alamo does what Preacher is known for: blowing you away. The Alamo contains all of the humour, despair, pathos, and hope that Preacher is so rightly celebrated for. Both a party and a bummer, the Alamo is a fitting bookend.    <br />	2004-10-25
US	52525539	R3NELCJW8CQUPY	1563896176	639556681	Preacher VOL 08: All Hell's A-Coming (Dc Comics Vertigo, Book 8)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Calm Before the Storm	In this, the penultimate instalment to the remarkable Preacher run, Garth Ennis sets the scene before it all comes crashing down in The Alamo. An interweaving of narrative focuses on things that were: the younger lives of Tulip and Cassidy; the last story, `Tall in the Saddle,' looks at a younger Jesse, Tulip, and Amy, and shows the extent of Jesse's moral imperatives. Jesse's Texas-style justice borders on the sadistic in much of these pages. Nothing new there, I suppose, but there's some pretty graphic stuff, which further makes difficult the ability to unequivocally embrace Jesse as 'the hero.'If Preacher can 'mean' anything, surely the interrogation of whether good people can do bad deeds must be one of its hallmarks.  <br /> <br />There's an undercurrent of themes here, most notably, the grand vision of America as the home of second chances and fulfilled dreams. That such a nave suggestion could even be seriously articulated in as cynical and dark a text as Preacher (particularly when it's delivered by an ex-porn actor), shows  the broadness of the canvas with which Ennis paints. Although Ennis clearly does believe in the notion of redemption, as witnessed by Jesse's spiritual rebirth in the appropriately-titled `Salvation,' and Tulip's deliverance from her own personal hell in these pages, our good buddy Arseface, though, is a living example of what happens when we too-openly trust and believe in goodness and decency. And people like Cassidy demonstrate the morality of people who manipulate that trust for their own benefit...   <br /> <br />All in all, this is a good read. I would have liked more plot and less background (did I really need to know all I did about Tulip? And why is her father's hand inexplicably replaced by a hook?), but I can see Ennis playing the role of maestro here, having things quiet down before the finishing crescendo.   <br />	2004-10-16
US	52525539	R7F9Q355RVI4B	1563895196	467048679	Preacher, Vol. 7: Salvation	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Back in Texas	For the first time in the series, the Jesse-Cassidy-Tulip team is broken up, where Tulip and Cassidy are pushed completely into the background. \\"Salvation\\" focuses solely on Jesse Custer's experiences immediately after the cataclysmic events as depicted in \\"Tears in the Sun.\\" Describing, appropriately enough, Jesse's stay in the racially polarized Salvation, Texas, Jesse's brawling talents land him the peachy job of town sheriff. Of course, being on the right side of the law for once only further encourages young Jesse to reach out and touch somebody. His rough and tumble ways seem to work, though, as his good conscience guides him to physically discipline only those who `deserve' it. Salvation eventually becomes a more just and humane town. Ennis is to be saluted for introducing the politics of race, here, and exploring small-town interracial relationships. As is unfortunately too often the case with other comic titles, African-Americans either don't exist or are the bad guys.  <br /> <br />One thing I didn't like about this book was Ennis' excessive use of deus ex machina that makes the narrative creak - some of the volume's tenser moments are resolved rather dubiously (a fortuitous bolt of lightening, Jesse's dog Skeeter does his best impression of Lassie on several occasions). Also, there is one rather amazing coincidence/revelation that occurs soon after Jesse rolls into town involving one of Salvation's citizens. The sheer improbability of it really rubbed me the wrong way, and seemed like lazy, overly sentimental writing (which Ennis is almost never guilty of). Even more amazing was how this coincidence wasn't realized by the person even earlier than it was.  <br /> <br />However, as always, this is immensely likeable reading. Ennis keeps churning out the freak show characters that demonstrate the diversity of the human condition. Although the stories have been better, Ennis nevertheless manages to confound, amuse, and perturb.  <br />	2004-09-15
US	52525539	R3I7DTZ1YOF5KH	1563894904	611507173	Preacher VOL 06: War in the Sun (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	There Goes the Neighbourhood	Most welcome in this volume was a first person chronicling of Herr Starr's meteoric rise within the ranks of the Grail - an omnipotent, ubiquitous organization enjoying worldwide political influence (fans of Michael Moore's `Fahrenheit 9/11' may recognize elements of The Carlyle Group at play here). Herr Starr's unique psychological profile is also explored, explaining much of the otherwise bizarre behaviour that surfaced in previous volumes.  <br /> <br />To add some Southern spice, Ennis throws in some wonderfully off-kilter characters in the mix: a failed wannabe astronaut with a rather substantial chip on his shoulder, a creepy hillbilly trio living in an abandoned mineshaft with particularly disturbing culinary tastes (and possible knowledge of Jimmy Hoffa's disappearance). And, considering the motley crew of characters that regularly grace the pages of Preacher, I use the adjective `bizarre' fully aware that `normal' in Ennis' world equates to Jerry Springer territory in ours.  <br /> <br />Anyways, Ennis is fully back on track here with a captivating storyline that is wonderfully broken up with little subplots. There's a huge revelation at the end of this book that completely changes the dynamic among the `good guys' (and girl) that ought to leave you looking forward to the next book. There's some other  - literally- earth-shattering stuff that goes on here, propelling the cataclysmic ending.  <br /> <br />Six volumes in, Ennis continues to shock and awe with his unique blend of humour, violence, and pathos. There's really nothing like Preacher out there, and `War in the Sun' further bolsters Ennis' elevated standing in the graphic novel pantheon.         <br />	2004-08-17
US	52525539	R1AJYB0MKJGB5Y	1563894289	871196333	Preacher VOL 05: Dixie Fried	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Southern Discomfort	With this instalment, we return to real-time in the series. The fearsome threesome find themselves deep in the Lousiana bayou; historic N'awlins, to be precise. Jesse hooks up with a witch doctor with a mind to jumpstart his buried consciousness. Lucky for us, things aren't quite so simple. The gang manages to quickly upset the baddies, resulting in the usual decapitations, burnings-to-death, and human shish kabobs we've come to love with Preacher. In the subplot department, Arseface becomes a celebrity and Tulip meets up with an old friend (after having hogtied her poor hopeless beau). The intro story, a stand-alone feature, stars Cassidy and his (mis)adventures in New Orleans. Cassidy comes to learn later in the series that his actions have consequences; not just to him, but to those in his circle, too.       <br /> <br />While the plot moves somewhat laboriously at times (the interchange between Tulip and friend really did not need to be that long) this is offset by the fact that there are some big revelations here, and some interesting plot developments. Many critics find this to among the weakest of Ennis' efforts in the Preacher canon. While certainly not up to par with the first two books, it manages to do the job and get you itching to read the next instalment. <br /> <br />Slightly disappointing in this volume was the lack of a Forward; I was getting accustomed to the excellent introductions that prefaced each book and contextualized the series (Ennis' own introduction to Ancient History was especially noteworthy). Dillon continues to surprise here, managing to create iconic images with ease. His deceptively simple style effectively reinforces the stark and brutal violence that underscores this world.           <br />	2004-08-07
US	52525539	R3FCT9PGVUQ8M9	156389405X	69617634	Preacher VOL 04: Ancient History	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The trees instead of the forest? Works here	As some of the longer graphic novel series are wont to do at times (see Sandman, for example), Ennis introduces a `break' to the Preacher arc with \\"Ancient History,\\" temporarily halting plot development and placing several Preacher characters outside the timeline. \\"Ancient History\\" contains two origin stories, one of Saint of All Killers and one of Arseface, respectively, and a broad-brush satire of the action movie genre, featuring those rapscallion down-home boys, Jody and T.C.<br />The two origin stories speak to the past pain and anger that the Saint and Arseface experienced, and how these emotions molded their desire to mete out vengeance. Saint is the `simpler' of the two characters. As Ennis himself acknowledges in his excellent Foreward, Saint is the virtual embodiment of the Clint Eastwood movie-western archetype, an innately violent man unable to contain the demons within when the good in him vanishes. Arseface, however, is painted with a subtler brush: a sad and isolated loner whose physiological transformation `triggers' (pardon the pun) a paradoxically sunnier and more violent outlook on life. Note also how Arseface comes to relate and sympathize with the things he most fears. Although these tales are both downers, the book finishes with a rousing send-off, thanks to the fanciful \\"Good Ole Boys.\\" The unlikeliest of heroes save the day and get the girl, and, er, dog. A bumbling Middle Eastern terrorist who utters a constant stream of scatological malapropisms `leads' the bad guys. People (and animals) are killed, mutilated, and abused. Hilarious, violent, offensive, politically incorrect; in short, Ennis at his crackling best.  <br />For the first time in the series, Dillon is not involved with the art. However, Steve Pugh's rich illustrations, the masterful Carlos Ezquerra's evocative imagery, and Pamela Rambo's skillful colouring, among others, ensure the visuals are up to par with the story.<br />Although I'm not generally a fan of graphic novels thatwander from the series arc, I have to admit that the book was very well written and a heckuva lot of fun to read.	2004-06-22
US	52525539	R322YJFN0AQBR5	1563893274	360924016	Preacher, Vol. 3: Proud Americans	Books	3	1	2	N	N	good	After two inspired efforts, Mr. Ennis finds himself in the unenviable position of trying to catch lightening in a bottle yet again with \\"Proud Americans;\\" capturing that delicious combination of over-the-top pathos, humour, and violence. Does he succeed? Well, not entirely, but that doesn't mean \\"Proud Americans\\" isn't deserving a respectful place on the Preacher bookshelf; it's just not that great. The book has its moments, though: a colourful, emasculated hitman (don't ask); an impossibly obese leader of the Grail; a `chosen child' given to obsessively exclaiming, \\"humperdido.\\" Ennis, by this point, knows how to create interesting characters and how to insert them in interesting scenarios. However, the book is missing a bit of the flair with which I was becoming accustomed. I think this is because of the retrospective feel of the book and that little plot is actually advanced; we have the intro story that details Jesse's father's experiences in Vietnam, and the book's latter half that comprises of Cassidy's origin. Granted, \\"Gone to Texas\\" and \\"Until the End of the World\\" were heavily retrospective, as well. However, they contained stories that, to me, were much more gripping. Honestly, Ennis' construction of Vietnam is nothing I haven't seen a thousand times before, and the Cassidy feature wasn't overly impressive. Although the part dealing with the Grail was Preacher-quality, there frankly wasn't enough of it to make this a great read.<br />Dillon is good as usual. Not overly flashy, but really conveys the moods Ennis is hinting at. Check his depiction of the Allfather; hilarious stuff. One small gripe: my edition (4th printing) had relatively poor quality paper, not the bright sheen of the earlier editions. This correspondingly gave the art a rather drab and muddy look. Unfortunate choice, really, since Dillon's art plays such a crucial role in the whole 'feel' of Preacher.	2004-06-18
US	52525539	RGM8UO9HM8E9J	1563893126	969819683	Preacher VOL 02: Until the End of the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ain't it fun	Hard as it is to believe, this second installment to the Preacher series is even better than the first. While \\"Until the End of the World\\" again relies on the formula that made \\"Gone to Texas\\" so unique - intriguing story-lines, extreme and disturbing violence mixed-in with equally in-your-face humour, a fascination with language- it manages to juice the volume to 10 on all of these elements. The first half of the book dealing with Jesse Custer's childhood rates as some of the most gripping (and horrifying) reading I've done in years: my eyes were literally glued to the pages well into the wee hours of the night. The second half was equally enjoyable, with Ennis building on the story arc and introducing the shadowy international organization, \\"The Grail.\\" Only someone as twisted as Mr. Ennis could make sodomy so darned hilarious, and provoke us with such difficult issues as child (sex) abuse, drug addiction, and mental illness. Kudos to Steve Dillon for keenly depicting the cruelty of child abuse and the evilness of some of the darker characters e.g. the freaky looking Gran'ma, who Glenn Fabry also has a hand in illustrating.  Ennis never takes the easy way out, preferring to discard the boring cookie-cutter superhero protagonist we all intrinsically root for, challenging us with a `hero' who is a recidivist criminal, violent and cruel towards people (and a particularly curmudgeonly feline), and subject to bouts of insanity. Ennis' keen take on the human condition enables him to create such a character that we nevertheless care about.     <br />As funny as \\"Until the End of the World\\" can be at times, the truth is, at its heart, the book is actually quite poignant. If Ennis can be said to be conveying anything as hokey as a \\"central message\\" here, my interpretation is that while our worlds are constantly intruded by loss and loneliness and death, our only chance is to have faith in ourselves and be lucky enough to have those who reinforce that faith. Otherwise, we'll wind up like the umpteen discarded and tortured souls that grace the pages of this masterful series.	2004-05-31
US	52525539	R1LYMYRQWC6B42	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastic start	There's a Tarantino-esque quality to Preacher. Beyond the most obvious similarity- the gratuituous violence- there's also a fascination with dialogue. Note the coarse language; the raw, edgy humour; the emphasis on storytelling; and it's almost like you've entered a down-home version of Pulp Fiction. Ennis is clearly concerned with replicating the words as we would actually hear them. Particular speech patterns are inserted into the text, making the characters' words more credible (particularly noteworthy is Ennis' insistence on having us read a speech-challenged character's words as they would actually sound. The words are `subtitled,' though). I think that Ennis' usage of dialogue is what makes this a great work. One small fault is that, as other reviewers have noted, Ennis occasionally misses with his characterization of the Texan accent. Nevertheless, he should be applauded for his intriguing and unique construction of dialogue, a too often overlooked feature in the medium. <br />Ennis is clearly a very gifted storyteller. He uses the archetypal figures of movie westerns we all know (the John Wayne type, the bad-guy gunslinger, the stern, tough-as-nails cop) and places them in absurd situations. How he came up with such unique characters as Arseface or the Saint of Killers I'll never know. They certainly added to my interest in the story. The 'hints' section really made me want to pick up the next installment to figure out how the tale develops.  <br />A tip of the cap should also be given to Steve Dillon. His clean and detailed lines were sometimes touching, sometimes disturbing, but always tastefully done. His visual interpretations of the characters are right-on: I couldn't possibly imagine a more appropriate looking Jesse Custer or Cassidy.   <br />In short, this is a brilliant start to a brilliant series. This is one very rare case where you can actually believe the hype.	2004-05-19
US	52525539	R1J0AMQGDPWSR9	0930289560	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Could have been much better	On paper, you'd think that Arkham Asylum had all the ingredients to be a brilliant read: a talented cast (writer par-excellence Morrison and the peerless and trailblazing Dave McKean) with a fascinating premise: what if Batman was assaulted by others'- and his own-insanity? Is Batman a mentally stable person to begin with; is his persona created and defined by his own inner psychological turmoil? While previous graphic novels have previously raised these questions when confronting the Batman mystique (the penultimate example being Miller's seminal The Dark Knight Returns), none ever placed them at the heart of the narrative.<br />I particularly enjoyed the first half of the book that traced the growth of both Amadeus Arkham and his Asylum. The latter seems to be the alter-ego of the former, the embodiment of his buried fears, much as Batman is the embodiment of Bruce Wayne's (and our?) innermost insecurities. Morrison is at his best here when he plays with the heavy symbolism of the themes involved; when he takes his time as a storyteller and enriches the world he's creating. It's only when things progress to the second half that he loses me. Without giving too much away, the narrative descends to a typical good guy vs. bad guy dualism where Batman has to battle the big, bad Joker. We're not provided any enlightening insights into any of the characters. The uninspiring resolution of this battle also ends rather awkwardly. By this point, I felt rather disappointed and empty.  <br />It's all really quite a shame, too, because McKean seems at the top of his game. His visual renderings of Arkham Asylum and Joker are particularly noteworthy, brilliantly capturing the menace and pathos of both. Had it not been for his efforts, I would have liked the book even less than I actually did. <br />The fact that this is one of the most popular graphic novels ever created demonstrates that there are quite a few things that Arkham Asylum did right. For me, however, there are far too many things that went wrong.	2004-05-13
US	52525539	RFDG9NMIF14X4	1563892057	757601286	Sandman, The: The Kindly Ones - Book IX	Books	5	5	5	N	N	We do what we do because of who we are.	Simply put, \\"The Kindly Ones\\" is a study of Morpheus' collapse, and, as such, follows the conventions of tragedy. And in true tragic fashion, Morpheus' downfall is precipitated from within: in this case, an unerring commitment to his office and the responsibilities contained therein, even when adhering to those principles ensures his inevitable demise. Clever as he is, Gaiman never truly indicates why Dream so resolutely marches towards this fate: is Morpheus punishing himself for the sins of his past; does he believe we all have predestined ends, and his particular position obligates him to make choices consistent with it, consequences be damned; is he simply not as insightful as he appears, and naively making choices that are destroying him? Although, by this point, he has appeared in nine volumes, Dream continues to elude facile generalizations of his character and remains deliciously enigmatic. Even the lot of Morpheus at the end of this volume is uncertain; death and life appearing to be rather fluid and interchangeable concepts, much like the ankh symbol worn by his adorable, and equally paradoxical, older sister, Death.   <br />As Mikal Gilmore notes in this insightful Introduction to \\"The Wake,\\" the title not only points to those 'kindly' ladies, the Furies, but others whose acts of kindness (Hippolyta, Thessaly, even Morpheus) similarly precipitate Morpheus' fall, either purposely or not. It is remarkable Gaiman has constructed a character whose humanization and kindness eventually destroys him. You certainly won't find this level of psychological sophistication in your average run-of-the-mill comic title or novel. <br />This volume gets my vote for the pick of the series; not an easy task when you consider the immense quality of its predecessors. But there's a sense of urgency in the unfolding of the plot, a self-awareness that things are coming to an end, leading to the inescapable conclusion that this title is the crescendo of the Sandman library. All the unresolved plotlines in the earlier volumes flourish here and result in the climactic conclusion. We learn that the fate of Morpheus is intertwined with the fate of the series itself, and I for one can't think of a more appropriate ending.	2004-02-29
US	52525539	R1EJR3121ONAJC	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Batman grows up	Along with The Watchmen and Daredevil, The Dark Knight Returns was part of the \\"new wave\\" of comics in the 80's that introduced new possibilities to the staid comic lexicon: adult themes, complex storylines, and, most radically for the time, a blurring of the line between hero and villain. These new approaches not only became core attributes of the burgeoning graphic novel genre, but also helped to modernize comics and introduce the medium to a new -and more mature- audience. <br />Miller's at his best here when he explores the many paradoxes that inform the Batman; clearly, the past constructions of Batman as mere `superhero' did the character a great disservice, since he's much more interesting here as a morally ambiguous and complex person. The expert television commentaries sprinkled throughout the narrative not only poke fun at the shallowness of contemporary news programs, but also well exemplify Batman's nebulousness and how he symbolizes different values (social deviant, victims' rights crusader) to different agendas.  The dramatic, full-page illustrations also add to the richness of the book. <br />Clearly, Miller is no slave to tradition. He kills off some rather important comic characters in this text, nearly does away with others, and re-imagines Batman's trusty sidekick, Robin, as a young woman. Entire pages go by without any dialogue: Miller positions us inside the mind of the characters where we're privy to their innermost thoughts. The Dark Knight is nothing if not unpredictable, a refreshing change from the \\"good guy wins, bad guys die\\" formula of the comics of old. This really was (and still is) a groundbreaking and important work. Miller deserves accolades not only for having written an engrossing story, but for also having paved new and exciting directions for the modern comic.	2004-01-29
US	52525539	R11GIJLI2CNUMA	1563891719	598252683	8: Sandman, The: World's End - Book VIII	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Gaiman does Chaucer	Like Fables and Recollections and Dream Country, World's End is a collection of individual stories that have little do with the Sandman arc. Unlike its predecessors, however, there is greater continuity between the stories, negating the impressions I had (particularly in Dream Country), that Gaiman just threw together a bunch of cool - but unrelated- ideas and constructed a book. The stories within World's End are all linked to a singular event: travelers gathering 'round and exchanging their weirdest, most interesting tales (admittedly, an almost done-to-death literary device). Gaiman breathes new life into this convention by inserting a dizzying amount of layers into the storytelling function. In a wonderfully witty Introduction, Stephen King compares the collection to \\"nested Chinese boxes:\\" stories existing within stories within stories. Gaiman really flexes his writing muscles here, constructing highly imaginative parallel universes that eerily mirror our own world (fans of Gaiman will note that \\"A Tale of Two Cities\\" borrows heavily from the essay he wrote for the SIMCITY 2000 game). He also inserts his most shocking plot twist to date at the end of the book, which forms the basis of the last two books on the Sandman collection and is guaranteed to pique the continued interest of the Sandman readership.  <br />I really enjoyed the diversity of the art; to note, the visually arresting rectangular and vertically arranged panels done by Alec Stevens in the aforementioned lead story \\"A Tale of Two Cities;\\" John Watkiss' crispness and use of clean lines; the tasteful, subdued tones of Michael Zulli and frequent Sandman collaborator Dick Giordano in \\"Hob's Leviathan.\\"  <br />My only wish would have been for the book to be a little longer. Obviously, that's not a critique at all, but a compliment to Gaiman's skills as a writer. But, when you're plunking down $32.95 (Canadian) for a book, it's a little disappointing to get a relatively slim volume.	2004-01-23
US	52525539	RSRTBOMOTRZ8M	0805209999	969973930	The Trial: A New Translation Based on the Restored Text (The Schocken Kafka Library)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Welcome, my son, to the machine	Kafka crafts a sometime eerie, sometime funny, but always fascinating work that details the criminal legal system's prosecution/persecution of a &quot;Josef K.&quot; The book's famous first sentence ominously forebodes the grinding machine that slowly devours Josef: a nameless, invisible bureaucracy that is omnipotent in its reach and accountable to no one. Although many novels written in the 20th century have appropriated similar versions of totalitarianism (1984, Brave New World, etc.), it should be noted that The Trial provided the template and, if you ask me, continues to stand without peer in its brilliant construction of terror caused by absurdity. Indeed, this book is, unsurprisingly, the prototypical example of the 'Kafkaesque:' feelings of guilt and alienation triggered by menacing forces that are bound by their own impenetrable logic. Anyone interested in 20th century literature ought to do himself or herself a favour and read The Trial, since the Kafkaesque informs so many of the themes and approaches to writing adopted by the century's top stylists.	2004-01-06
US	52525539	R359Z4Y4DTO83X	1563891387	611047719	The Brief Lives (Sandman)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gaiman raises the bar yet again	A rather simple premise: for all her muddled state, Dream's younger sister, Delirium, demonstrates a surprising amount of constancy in determining to find her errant brother, Destruction. Although Dream had agreed to help her find Destruction (after Delirium has been rejected by two of her other siblings, Desire and Despair), he initially lacks much of Delirium's resolve. The narrative that ensues takes a surprising amount of twists and turns before it settles on an ending in tune with the tenor of the book.     <br />Not surprisingly, this collection is generally esteemed as the best of all the Sandman books: not only are the central characters (Delirium, Destruction- who is possibly the most likeable and paradoxical of the Endless) exceptionally well constructed here, Gaiman reaches a high point in his abilities as a storyteller where each of the stories fit perfectly well within the book as a whole. Without revealing too much, Gaiman resolves several important questions in this collection that had been previously lingering. There are no 'filler' pages or plotlines here: each of the stories contribute to the book's meditations on change (note Gaiman's pun on the various meanings of 'change' throughout) and death, including the frailty and brevity of life. While Gaiman's at his most philosophic and raises some particularly thought-provoking questions (is having all knowledge a burden; need we continue with our responsibilities once we realize our roles in life are replaceable?), never does he sacrifice the quality of the stories by soapboxing. Peter Straub's Afterword is well written and ably discusses the various themes of Brief Lives. <br />I'm not a big fan of Jill Thompson's artwork; I didn't like her sparse style in Fables and Reflections and I generally don't like it here, either. However, because there is only one artist in Brief Lives, there is a continuity that lacked in some of the previous Sandman titles that often had four or five artists. Thompson doeshave her moments, though: I enjoyed the change in inking style she employed in Chapter 5 when the events of the story shift to a strip club (yes, Gaiman's quirky imagination runs the full gamut).     <br />One can see with Brief Lives that Gaiman is starting to wind the series up and this is rather bittersweet. While Gaiman is clearly reaching his zenith as a writer, one realizes that the ride that created the greatest graphic novel series ever will be over soon. Nonetheless, I'll take such mixed emotions anytime. Well done, Neil.	2003-12-30
US	52525539	RUOAOHB4TCUY8	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Still watching the Watchmen almost twenty years later	Moore brilliantly deconstructs the medium's traditional interpretation of the superhero- fearless, mighty, zealous defender of the good- and reconstructs him/her by asking, quite rightly, what kind of person would ever want to dress up in tights, cape, and/or mask under the auspices of fighting crime? Before Watchmen, this question was completely ignored. Consequently, comics focussed more on the external battles between 'good' and evil' at the expense of studying the internal psychodynamic battles attending all superheroes.<br />The great part about reading any of Moore's stuff (V for Vendetta, From Hell, etc.), is that he's so obviously brilliant; unlike a lot of the other guys writing comics, his works contain a breadth of current societal/economic/political issues (although feminists could arguably point out that Watchmen reinforced gender inequality and traditional sex roles). In this way, the characters of Watchmen interact in a living, breathing, complex world: a 'realist' world. Moore also enjoys telling two stories at once through the use of intertextuality: in a vein similar to Shakespeare, a minor sub-plot informs the major storyline (note Moore's usage of the fictional 'Tales of the Black Freighter' as well as the clippings concluding each chapter) Watchmen's enduring contribution to the medium was his intersection of the comic world with the real world. So many complex themes and plots appearing in today's comics (the morally problematic hero, the sympathetic villain, drug addiction, rape, etc.) derive directly from this great and important work that dared to imagine how superheroes would really fare in the present time.<br />It should also be noted that Dave Gibbons' art had a lot to with the boldness and brilliance of Watchmen: his clever use of close-ups/fades, morphing, and cut-away techniques hearken to mind the approach of a film director rather than a traditional comics illustrator. Gibbons ably brought to life the multifaceted world envisioned by Moore and in the process greatly opened up the possibilities available to the comics illustrator.<br />Almost twenty years later, Watchmen continues to astound readers and stands heads and shoulders above anything preceding or succeeding it. I am yet to read a single graphic novel that astounded me in its scope and originality as this one did. I cannot say more other than this is the single best graphic novel I have ever read.	2003-12-28
US	52525539	R1TTWZ6SIUE6LC	1563891050	632343866	6: Sandman, The: Fables & Reflections - Book VI	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gaiman Continues to Impress	Echoing Dream Country, Neil Gaiman's Fables and Reflections is a collection of stand-alone stories that have largely little to do with Sandman's multi-volume story arc. As was also the case with its predecessor, this collection boasts an impressive assortment of characters and eras. Gaiman's freedom from narrative sequence allows the reader to embark on a whirlwind tour of all that Gaiman's delightfully bizarre mind can manage to cram into a 250-odd page book: quite simply, you never know where Gaiman's imagination will take you one page to the next. Despite the apparent lack of cohesiveness between the stories, however, one can clearly see there are some overarching motifs linking the tales: themes of power, family, storytelling. Gaiman's great gift is that he's able to contrive these fantastic scenarios yet remain firmly in control by constructing a cogent story.<br />While the book's format accomodates Gaiman's strong points as a storyteller, there are some drawbacks, as well. At times, Gaiman appears unwilling to map-out, even at some basic level, who the characters are and their motivations. A case in point occurs in \\"Thermidor,\\" where the protagonist, a Lady Constantine, appears to have had a past relationship with Morpheus, but we're never blessed (at least in this book) with an explanation as to the depth or relevance of this connection. One wonders, therefore, whether there was any real reason to bring it up. This phenomenon re-occurs, to a lesser extent, in \\"The Hunt,\\" where the central character, who is apparently a nice guy, scares the pants off of a palm-reader, who appears to think she read for Satan himself. The meaning of this scene is never expanded upon, and, consequently I felt somewhat confused throughout the rest of the story. Although these are admittedly trivial points which did little to detract from my enjoyment of the book, they point to the fact that the book's format makes it incumbent upon Gaiman to create a coherent world that we really care about; a task that felt a little lacking, at times.<br />With the exception of the disastrous imagery provided by the introductory story (Morpheus, for example, looks like a Gothic hillbilly, if such a blend is capable of existing), the art was of consistent high quality. I particularly enjoyed the imagery, inking, and lettering styles employed in \\"Ramadan\\" to accompany the 1001 nights-influenced story.<br />All in all, Gaiman earns high marks for his flair and creativity. It is a testament to Gaiman's greatness that, six books into the series, he continues to churn out a product without equal in the graphic novel world.ly care about; a task that felt a little lacking, at times.  <br />With the exception of the disastrous imagery provided by the introductory story (Morpheus, for example, looks like a Gothic hillbilly, if such a blend is capable of existing), the art was of consistent high quality. I particularly enjoyed the imagery, inking, and lettering styles employed in \\"Ramadan\\" to accompany the 1001 nights-influenced story.  <br />All in all, Gaiman earns high marks for his flair and creativity. It is a testament to Gaiman's greatness that, six books into the series, he continues to churn out a product without equal in the graphic novel world.	2003-12-01
US	52525539	R3K0Y9INJZQTF8	1563890895	287740469	5: Sandman, The: A Game of You - Book V	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pure Magic	Never content with telling Sandman from one fixed perspective for too long, Gaiman again turns the collection on its head and has yet another character (this time `Barbie,' a supporting player in the Doll's House), provide the orientation to the text for us. Gaiman seems to be at his best when Morpheus plays more of a supporting role in the narrative. As was the case in the stellar Doll's House, A Game of You focuses on human relationships. Although Morpheus is certainly an interesting character, in the end he is, as his sister Death previously remarked, \\"an anthropomorphic personification:\\" an idealized abstraction. Gaiman's human characters, however, are fully rounded: capable of the myriad -and often contradictory- emotions that make us flesh and blood. It's Gaiman's probing exploration of humanity that really sets the series apart from other graphic novels that choose to focus on the wearisome `superheroes and bad guys' formula. How many other graphic novels, for example, detail the ups and downs of a lesbian couple or the anxieties of transvestism? This is ground breaking stuff, to be sure, and provides much needed realness to the medium.   <BR> <BR>Barbie's adventures in dreamland bear an eerie resemblance to Frodo's in the Lord of the Rings and Dorothy's in the Wizard of Oz, and for good reason. All three works are manifestations of what Joseph Campbell terms the \\"hero cycle:\\" a rite of passage that chronicles the hero's departure and eventual return. The hero cycle is a fundamental aspect of mythology, and Gaiman's skilful usage of it affords the tale a feeling of timelessness, a structural connection to the process of myth making.  <br />The art in this series is fantastic and probably the best in the collection to date. Shawn McManus does a wonderful job of bringing out the mood of the text: note McManus' usage of nearly pure white and black cells in the first chapter to underscore the starkness of Barbie's \\"dream country.\\" Somewhat jarring, however, is the fact that Colleen Doran drew the art for only the third story. Her less detailed style essentially interrupts the atmosphere created by McManus in the five other stories. <br />Although this is the fifth text in the Sandman series, Gaiman demonstrates he has plenty of gas left in the tank. His imagination continues to propel him to new and strange places, and I'm more than willing to sit in the passenger's seat and enjoy the view.	2003-11-03
US	52525539	R5O4UE3BLQXBO	1563890410	772511764	The Sandman; vol. 4: Season of Mists	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Where Dream Meets Myth	With this fourth instalment to the Sandman series, Gaiman finally takes the time to introduce us to Dream's elusive siblings, the Endless. Although we briefly encountered several of them in The Doll's House, Gaiman allows us to spy in on the family dynamics as all six (or is it seven; note the one empty chair) sit around the table together and bicker and argue as most families are wont to do. The brief little write up for Desire, Despair, Destiny, Delirium, and Dream in the introductory chapter is most welcome, but why not one for Death? <br />Although the art was generally good, I found it a little off, at times. In particular, I didn't like the depiction of Dream or Death. I much better preferred how they appeared in Preludes and Nocturnes. To compound this problem, the text oftentimes had inconsistent images of both Dream and Death. I'm not sure why Dream sometimes appeared strikingly different in different cells on the same page, and I must say I found such occurrences distracting.  <br />I have no complaints on the story, however. Gaiman raises the bar here, and deeply immerses the text with the various myths held by civilizations past and present. Gaiman is obviously very familiar with these themes; his firm control of the narrative and adept insertion of these various complicated mythologies provides the reader access to people and places no other graphic novel does. Further, only someone with as puckish a sense of humour as Gaiman could contrive a situation where the Norse God Thor would put the moves on the Egyptian cat Goddess, Bast. Thor appears to be quite the party animal, too: drinker, swearer and maker of rowdy jokes.  <br />Like the other texts in the Sandman canon, I highly recommend Season of Mists. It is with this tome that Gaiman flaunts his `literariness' and proves that comics are capable of high art, too.	2003-10-18
US	52525539	RYO0VFZVHMCD9	156389016X	479375672	The Sandman Library, Volume 3: Dream Country	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"Mythologies Take Longer To Die Than People Believe."	Although this volume of the Sandman series has technically nothing to do with the main Sandman story arc, and can therefore be ignored , I daresay anyone doing that would be missing a whole lot. For my money, this is the best instalment of the entire series. While containing 'merely' four issues, each instalment is so brilliant and original that only the very cantankerous would quibble with the relative thinness of the volume.<br />It is perhaps because this collection is sequentially out of keeping with the Sandman arc that Gaiman can give himself free-reign to explore storylines and motifs. Enslaved muses, dreaming cats, Shakespeare, and depressed Metamorphs take centre stage and completely 'de-centre' the established characters and plots of the Sandman pantheon. The fascinating sidebar that is \\"Dream Country\\" demonstrates just how far Gaiman's imagination is able to take him.<br />Altough Gaiman's take on Shakespeare's classic \\"A Midsummer Night's Dream\\" is what most pundits rave about (and deservedly so - it won a World Fantasy Award), I elect \\"A Night as a Thousand Cats\\" as Gaiman's masterpiece. Beautiful, sublime, moving. Cats frame the tale for us, and we sympathize with their lot in life. Dreams become the repository of their lost hopes; a repository that is consciously designed to actualize an old mythology that will help change their faded status as pets.<br />The first story, \\"Calliope,\\" has some particularly great art in it. I particularly enjoyed the last page, where a struggling writer attempts to hold onto his memory of Morpheus; Kelley Jones does a marvelous job of graphically representing a fading memory. <br />\\"Facade\\" is a tongue-in-cheek attack on our obsession with physical appearances. It certainly puts a new spin on the expression \\"putting my face on.\\" <br />Each read reveals new layers; a true sign of great writing. There's no getting bored with this collection.	2003-10-07
US	52525539	ROAYP6JF7J7A8	039309880X	502423608	The Sufferings of Young Werther	Books	2	3	4	N	N	I wanted to like this book...	But I didn't. Widely considered a literary classic, I honestly didn't get what the fuss was about.  <br /> Granted, Goethe is a man of towering genius; his understanding of human nature is very much in evidence here. However, reading the book, I feel it is very much a product of its time. The narrative format (letters written by the protagonist) as well as the excessive sentimentality, were products of the \\"Age of Sentimentality\\" that swept through much of Europe during the latter half of the 18th-century. One's take on the book, therefore, correlates highly with how one reacts to the features of this period. The constant snivelling and braying that occurs throughout the book is unendurable, and the unlikeliness of the events is compounded by the artifice of the narration itself (the epistolary novel). However, because, it's Goethe writing, there is the occasional timeless observation (\\"When we feel inadequate to ourselves, everything seems inadequate to us\\") that only Goethe can put into words. Its moments such as those that salvage an otherwise uninteresting read.<br />As is common with Norton editions, the text is packed with useful annotations, biographical notes, and critical studies. The translation is also good, maintaining the tenor of Goethe's words but updating them for modern ears. <br />Since this text was a crucial contributor to the \\"sturm und drang\\" (storm and stress) movement, one perhaps would be best served by appreciating the historical value of the text, and discounting its \\"factual content\\" (to steal from Benjamin). Otherwise, I fear one might run into the same problems I did.	2003-09-05
US	52525539	R1258Q5OXFJ8K	0930289595	670576164	The Sandman Library, Volume 2: The Doll's House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A big step forward	It is finally with this collection that Gaiman demonstrates his (immense) potential and the Sandman series deserves its acclaimed reputation. Gone are the awkward - and sometimes boring- story arcs and borrowed characters from other titles. &lt;The Doll's House&gt; takes place almost entirely in a parrallel universe constructed by the imagination of the narrator: a fascinating place where dream and day are closely intermeshed. Each narrative in the collection adeptly stands on its own, unlike some stories in the previous collection (&lt;Preludes and Nocturnes&gt;), which seemed to demand a prior knowledge of the DC comic universe; an unfortunate circumstance, really, seeing that none of these references had the complexity and originality of Gaiman's own creations. &lt;The Doll's House&gt; is ample proof that Gaiman works best with an empty canvass. <br />I generally agree with many of the other reviews that complement the complexity of the characters, or applaud Gaiman's ability to tell a great story. However, one feature of the Sandman series that is often overlooked is Gaiman's wicked sense of humour. Indeed, Gaiman is often at his funniest when he really has no right to be - when describing moments of horror. In &lt;Preludes and Nocturnes,&gt; &quot;24 Hours&quot; adeptly balanced horror with humour, and Gaiman does the same in this collection with &quot;Collectors,&quot; a story which concentrates almost exclusively on serial killers. While, on the surface, mass murder wouldn't appear to be particularly amusing, Gaiman contrives a scenario where famous serial killers attend a &quot;Cereal&quot; convention at a hotel. The story is a hilarious send-up of the features of conventions as well as the cult of serial killers. His usage of humour at such times is a brilliant rhetorical tool that questions and interrogates what is funny. Unlike other writers in the genre, Gaiman skilfully uses humour to underpin the motifs of many of his narratives.<br />At times, however, the narrative seems to assume that we're on the same page as Gaiman, and able to navigate our way throughout his universe as adroitly as him. Complex ideas are barely explained, or not explained at all. Although some of my difficulties were resolved near the end of the collection (especially what constitutes a &quot;dream vortex&quot;), others never were. Whether this was a failure on my part or a flaw of the narration, I can't tell for certain. Perhaps the narrative was even meant to disorient and overwhelm us, as strangers in a strange dream. <br />That small (potential) criticism aside, this is great literature, no mere comic book. Gaiman transcends the graphic novel medium with this collection and delivers a terrific and brilliant read.	2003-09-05
US	52525539	R363FGCF7B8O26	0691027773	530664077	Modern Tyrants	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An essential study and explanation of evil	Chirot's text is a study of various tyrannies that took root during the twentieth-century. Although his primary focus is on those regimes most would not rationally have difficulty accepting as tyrannies (Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot), he does accept that there existed various government regimes throughout the last century (Pinochet, Ataturk, Franco) sitting on the `periphery' of his classificatory scheme: depending on whether one chooses to critique the states' ultimate accomplishments or the means they used to get there, one could make a strong argument either way. A fuller discussion of these borderline regimes and their corresponding features would have been enlightening, but Chirot, understandably, explains that these considerations needlessly broaden the text's project. I also note a reviewer's commentary that s/he wished there had been less concern with the tyrants' personal lives. Although I agree that this practice sometimes veers into the tabloid-esque and challenges the seriousness and scholarly tone of the text  (anyone want to know how many ties Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo had in his personal collection?), it is instructive to see that tyrants were, in fact, people capable of the same personal failings as the rest of us. With respect to tyrannies bent on realizing a given ideology, the fact that even the ruler deviated from the very standards that his/her subjects was forced to observe demonstrated the impracticability and inhumanity of their rule.     <br />More than a plodding historical survey of twentieth-century tyranny, Chirot seeks to ask why the Hitlers and the Stalins arose when they did. This question prompts him to consider tyranny not as a unique and static phenomenon but, rather, a result of emerging ways of thinking that materialized out of the West during the nineteenth century. In particular, the superiority granted to the discourse of science and its findings led to a chain of circumstances (decentring of God, social Darwinism, colonialism) that informed not only how nation-states were governed, but also the rationalizations for governance. Chirot makes a strong case that since the rise of tyranny in the twentieth-century nation was largely a product of identical emerging discourses, many tyrannies shared not only the same features, but also evolved in similar ways. <br />Buttressing these features is the discourse of science; its emphasis on logic and absoluteness compels the (potential) despot to rule according to the `tyranny of certitude.' For example, Marxism, which many influential thinkers believed was the science of history, provided the impetus for Stalin, Pol Pot, Chairman Mao, Kim Il Sung and many others to construct a brutal, rigid and unyielding understanding of social organization. No matter the countless atrocities they committed in following their road map, such rulers `knew' that their scientific construction of politics would eventually give rise to a social utopia and allow a formerly great people to realize their place in the world. That these policies left the countries in much worse shape than when the leaders assumed control is a cruel and poignant irony. <br />Pick this book up. It is a fascinating and enlightening read.	2003-04-23
US	52525539	RZT652TEAT1CF	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	3	9	10	N	N	When Dream and Day unite	What happens when a group of mystics ensnare the King of Dreams and keep him imprisoned for over seventy years? <BR>So begins Neil Gaiman's epic, sweeping vision that constitutes the Sandman series. The first book concerns itself with Morpheus's eventual escape and quest to find the accoutrements with which he used to rule his dream kingdom. This is no ordinary comic series; Gaiman brilliantly exploits the sequential art medium to provide us with provocative- and often disturbing- images that underline the thrust of the words. \\"24 Hours,\\" for example, just wouldn't be the same if it was produced as your normal, everyday novel. Actually seeing, in Dr. Dee's eyes, the products of his warped fantasies in graphic form adds a layer to the narrative Gaiman wouldn't ordinarily have. And these are visual characters; Morpheus and the celebrated Death, with their Gothic, ultra cool look are so easily identifiable and indelibly imprint themselves in the reader's mind. Their visual representation also reinforces their uniqueness; Death's Ankh talisman, for example, perfectly enscapulates the paradoxical nature of the wearer, where death is a positive, life-affirming state.    <BR>Notwithstanding the consistent high quality quality of the art (I especially love that astounding, two-page image in \\"A Hope in Hell,\\" where Dream, Lucifer, Azazel and Beezelbub stand atop a summit overlooking all of Hell's denizens, and Lucifer, with the slightest touch of humour, asks Morpheus if he can pick out the creature that stole his helm) and some very good stories(\\"24 Hours\\" and \\"The Sound of Her Wings\\"), I can't help but get the impression that, as a whole, _Preludes_ is a forced effort. As Gaiman himself later acknowledged, and many are quick to critique, Gaiman's attempts at intertextuality fall flat. The bringing in of characters from other storylines (Cain and Abel, John Constantine, Scott Free, J'onn, etc.) gives the narrative a campy, tawdry look. It's a ridiculous marketing ploy thatreally robs the narrative of its uniqueness. Gaiman is at his best when the tenor of _Sandman_ matches that of its protagonist; dark, brooding, enigmatic. To Gaiman's credit, this \\"failed experiment\\" never went beyond _Preludes_ and helps to explain why subsequent titles are so much better than this one. <BR>I think that it's necessary to start with this title, however. The summary of _Preludes_ at the beginning of _The Doll's House_ robs the reader of some important contextualizations and impressions that can only be made by actually reading the book. Despite its faults, _Preludes_ is better than 95% of graphic novels and comic books out there. And it only gets better....	2002-06-15
US	52525539	R29H6S6WKPQMHB	0140186867	26816434	The Marrow of Tradition (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An engaging inquiry into turn-of-the-century race relations	This near-forgotten novel really doesn't get the attention it deserves. Although written over a hundred years ago(Chesnutt has the distinction of being the first African-American professional writer of fiction), the novel anticipates many of the approaches leaders would later employ in their attempts to better the plight of African-Americans. Josh Green, for example, is a dead-ringer for the &quot;by any means necessary&quot; rhetoric of Malcolm X, while Dr. Miller seems more emblematic of the accomodationist position adopted by Booker T. Washington and later modified by Martin Luther King. Although Chesnutt seems to imply preference for the latter, the text never falls into a redundant good/bad binary. Chesnutt skillfully demonstrates the strengths and weaknesses of strategies designed to address the systemic disenfranchisement of African-Americans. Like many black writers interested in such issues (most notably Patricia Williams in &quot;The Alchemy of Race and Rights&quot;), the text reinforces the importance of rights discourse and a well-functioning legal forum as the keys to ensuring black freedom and autonomy from coercive hegemonical practices. <br />Although the text, as some commentators have noted, sometimes wildly veers into melodrama, the power and vision of the narrative trumps whatever small stylistic quibbles I may have with it. A great read.	2002-02-09
US	52525539	R2EVVSXV8K2O8G	0941423883	281707958	Mercy: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A public baring of the soul	This is a greatly misunderstood work. Oddly enough, <Mercy's> most ardent opponents seem to be the feminist intelligensia (who Dworkin depredates as those waving the \\"intellectual feminism\\" banner) who understand this book as a reckless and irresponsible call for violent retributivism against all men. Dworkin writes powerfully and passionately, and it is easy to fall into the trap of thinking that the novel's narrator (\\"Andrea\\")replicates Dworkin's personal views of justice. Rather, this novel interrogates conventional notions of justice and mercy and asks us, the reader, to consider the circumstances of Andrea's life in understanding her conduct at the novel's conclusion. <BR>The novel's feminism is not achieved by baldly inciting all women to violence. Rather, Dworkin points out that: 1) the violence that has been, and is, perpetrated against women is genocidal, and that men have engaged in literal war against them. 2) The judicial system takes litle note of women's experiences in sexual assault, child custody, and other such hearings, and reinforces gender-biased interpetations of women. Dworkin interrogates judicial practice by positioning the reader as the trier of fact whose sole referrant is Andrea, herself. We judge 'her' conduct according to 'her' story. It is only because the legal system fails women that the latter must employ more martial means in defending themselves.<BR>Whether you agree with her or not, Dworkin pens an extremely provocative work that will certainly challenge your assumptions regarding gender relations. The novel's liberal use of stream-of-consciousness techniques reinforces the immediacy and \\"story from the frontlines\\" feel of the narrative. I strongly recommend <Mercy> to anyone interested in feminist discourse.	2002-02-02
US	52525539	R3FAJOXAR1O31Y	0767902149	168098533	Taekwondo: The State of the Art	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A great book	This book covered all the aspects of taekwondo as both a martial art and sport. The illustrations were great. The poomse section  beautifully explained the WTF forms. My favorite part, though, was the footwork  section. My prowess in the ring improved almost immediately after having  read it. The authors scattered many helpful tips throughout the book, as  well. I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in Taekwondo.  Well done!	1999-09-13
