US	52522278	R64PCYWCA1FEV	185367611X	206649579	Luftwaffe Victorious	Books	4	23	25	N	N	A plausible, well written alternative history	Many alternative histories suffer either from the author's axe to grind, or simply an excess of determinism:  X country lost due to lack of whatever.  If they had \\"only\\" done something else, the outcome would certainly have been different. <br /> <br />Most descriptions of war-losing mistakes by the Luftwaffe revolve around two, maybe three precepts:  no development to production of a four-engine strategic bomber; lack of long range drop tanks for the Bf-109 lost the Battle of Britain (and by extension the war due to two fronts), and Hitler missed a golden opportunity by not accelerating production of the Me-262.  These ideas are based either on what is known in the intelligence community as \\"mirror-imaging\\"; the tendency to see yourself in the actions or intentions of the enemy, or else on one book.  Lack of a strategic bomber must have doomed the Luftwaffe's war effort as it could not strike at enemy warmaking because the Allies did so-and they won.  Ergo, a strategic bomber was a must-even though strategic bombing did not do anywhere near the economic disruption claimed at the time, or postwar for that matter.  Adolf Galland's bio \\"The First and the Last\\" was enormously influential in many historians' views of the Luftwaffe and its strategy.  One of his claims was that if only his crew's had drop tanks they could have stayed with the bombers for a tactically significant time and inflicted unacceptable losses on the RAF.  The second was that Hitler's bungling prevented the effective employment of the Me-262 which would otherwise have ended bombing raids over Germany.   None of these theses take into account the old military adage that the enemy always has a vote, and the allies would have responded to each threat. <br /> <br />\\"Luftwaffe Victorious\\" takes a less deterministic view based on research of the last 10 -15 years.  In this story, nothing is truly decisive in and of itself.  Four engine bombers are put in production, but due to actual economic conditionsonly a few hundred are constructed.  They play key roles in the Battles of Britain and the Atlantic, plus the airwar in the East, but the Allies find countermeasures.  Drop tanks are employed, but the actual problems with them, leakage and the tendency to hang instead of drop, are enough to keep single engined fighters from overcoming a flawed strategy.  As far as the Me-262 is concerned it is immediately put into production, but is more effective as a low-level bomber over the invasion beaches than as a fighter.  In essence, Hitler was actually correct!  Such a revolutionary aircraft demanded changes to air combat tactics.  Tactics take time to develop and teach, time the Germans just do not have due to overwhelming Allied numbers and increasing technological sophistication.  The Allied response is to accelerate B-29 production and deploy their jet prototypes.   <br /> <br />This book is a pretty decent summation of the current views on the German Luftwaffe, and actually an interesting alternative history.  Recommended. <br />	2005-09-02
US	52522278	R2PA5T8ZLUPYP1	1857332059	417079270	Culture Shock! Greece: A Guide to Customs and Etiquette	Books	2	17	17	N	N	Somewhat useful, but desperately needs an update	The Culture Shock series describes customs and courtesies for primarily a British readership.  Usually the books are written by expatriates and/or tour guides, probably the best subject matter experts one could find.  Unsurprisingly, Culture Shock Greece aims to give the tourist or potential expat an overview of Greek culture and society to better assimilate.  Greek culture being almost 3000 years old, certainly some aspects will change slowly if at all; this makes the \\"currency\\" of the book less of issue than, say, a travel guide.  Nonetheless, although I did in fact find some of the book useful, there are some serious limitations here. <br /> <br />First, although my copy says \\"New Expanded Edition\\" and a copyright date of 2001, without a doubt some of the material is at least ten years old.  Euros are called \\"ecu's\\", nor mention of the move from drachmae to Euros, which totally changed the pricing of commodities (crucial information for someone who may be doing business, or planning to move to Greece).  Athens information is painfully inadequate and basically useless for anything except the touchy-feely impressions of the author.  More importantly, zero mention of resources available on the internet.   <br /> <br />Second, is the snide tone the author takes with American influences (considering there's almost as many Greeks living in the US and Canada as Greece he shouldn't be surprised.)  Frankly, I couldn't care less what the author's views of American language and culture are-even less in a book about GREEK culture.  I believe part of this attitude is present as well regarding food and drink.  My experiences in Greece/Crete were that wine is considered a special treat, and the beverage of choice for most meals is beer.  The author insists that wine is a standard, and beer is \\"outre\\".  I've encountered wine snobbery before, and this feels like it again.  Well, again, maybe ten years ago that was true-not now.  The worthwhile parts of the book are the societal insights, and if one takes the infrastructure information with a huge grain of salt-is worth reading. <br />	2005-09-02
US	52522278	R32T3NCQRDHA7O	1568983972	257031098	The Games We Played: The Golden Age of Board & Table Games	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Overview of Nineteenth Century American History through board games.	Board games as we understand them in the 21st century, really began in the early nineteenth.  Before then, children were really considered to be junior adults: time not spent in school was for work on the farm, or in a factory.  Of course there was chess, checkers (draughts) or games like Go, and Senet.  But these were primarily played by adults.  With growing prosperity, and corresponding disposable income and spare time, came a realization of the value of play for children.  This play could be used for socialization:  instill values, increase literacy, and develop dexterity, without the kids knowing it.  Since board games had this mission, as well as entertainment they make a unique window into the social history of the Victorian Era.       \\"The Games We Played\\" does an excellent job of showing the changes wrought in American society reflected in board games.  The rise of urbanization, development of a transportation infrastructure, and the nascent consumerism all are described via the illustrations.  This is not an in depth social history, but association of major nineteenth century events, and how they affected games is pointed out.  The illustrations alone are almost worth the price of the book, as they are practically works of art (in an era before lithographs, game art was hand painted by factory workers).  The only weak areas of the book are the two chapters about travel; neither is more than a few pages, and the narrative is not of the level of the others in this work.  Overall, if one has any interest in games, or social history this is worth considering.	2005-08-22
US	52522278	R2FR25DNG34X5F	1584793279	363546242	It's a Wonderful Christmas: The Best of the Holidays 1940-1965	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Great Holiday Book for the baby-boomer on your list	The subtitle of this book is \\"The best of the Holidays 1940 - 1965.\\"  That's certainly true.  What one discovers is that many of the traditions we associate with Christmas:  wrapping presents, visiting Santa etc aren't that old-most started in the last 80 years or so.  Specifically, the chapters cover the evolution of Christmas trees, (artificial trees have a much longer legacy than most people, including me, know), decorations, lighting shopping-of course, food and Santa Claus.  Anyone who remembers that time, will certainly enjoy reading about Bubble Lights and Green Bean Casseroles.<br /><br />The author makes the point along the way, that those who decry the \\"commercialization of Christmas\\", are first:  missing a crucial point that the secular part of the celebration helps to socialize those who aren't Christians and second: complaints about commercialization go back to at least 1837 for the US (and I believe the 18th Century in the UK.)  This short (about 100 pages all told) book would make an excellent gift to the baby-boomer on your list.	2005-08-22
US	52522278	R1L6WVTQ7TFQUI	0963263773	479261400	Toys of the Sixties: A Pictorial Price Guide	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Excellent Baby-Boomer Nostalgia	\\"Toys of the Sixties\\" is primarily a collector's tool, but in being so has a considerable listing of toys manufactured from the late 50's through 1970 or so.  Without a doubt, if you grew up in this time, some of your toys will be listed here- and some toys you wanted but never received.   All this said, even though my copy says \\"4th Edition\\" and the copyright is 1996, what prose there is, and the ads for additional material seem out of the 1980's.  I couldn't find websites or email addresses for any of these catalogs, and no specified method of payment either.  I would be cautious about using this book for collecting given the fact it's almost 10 years old, but a lot of memories will come back while reading it.	2005-08-22
US	52522278	R1CVZVZXVKI0TR	1841768448	601044852	Crete 1941: Germany’s lightning airborne assault (Campaign)	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Good illustrations, but entirely conventional discussion of the battle	\\"Crete 1941\\" is one the Osprey Publishing's Campaign series.  As such, it's profusely illustrated with good photographs, 3D computer generated maps, and paintings.  The maps are outstanding, showing how terrain shaped the battle.  The units are captioned to show the battle's flow and clearly describe the German plan, and the Commonwealth defenses.  However, the narration is entirely conventional, with very little of the latest research on this near-disaster apparent.  The best section is probably the analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the opposing forces; as good as in any more in-depth work.  Ultimately I would suggest Anthony Beevor's excellent \\"Crete The Battle and The Resistance\\" for the battle's analysis, and this book for supporting illustrations.	2005-08-22
US	52522278	R2EJZX4KLZCJB3	1886705348	381803328	Streetwise Athens Map - Laminated City Center Street Map of Athens, Greece - Folding pocket size travel map with metro map	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Useful, but needs a Metro Update	This map is typical of the \\"Streetwise\\" series:  Easily folded , LAMINATED (which makes it easy to write on, and keeps the map from falling apart when wet), and with handy stuff like metro stops, hotels.  All landmarks the tourist needs to navigate around the town.  The Athens one concentrates, naturally on the area around the Parthenon; the rest of Athens is on the other side.  However, a new edition is certainly warranted as the metro now extends out to the airport, and the important hub of Syntagma Square isn't listed, and some Lat/Long lines would be great for us GPS-geeks. <br />Overall worth taking with you.	2005-05-23
US	52522278	RTP784W9DBJ1K	0760741344	74202214	A Guide to the Ancient World: A Dictionary of Classical Place Names	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great reference material	The subtitle is \\"A Dictionary of Classical Place Names\\", and that's exactly what this book is.  Let's face it, we all don't know exactly where the heck Halicarnassus was, let alone what other cities or empires were its neighbors (SE Asia Minor, interdicting the sea route to Cos, in case you're wondering). Entries range from Abdera to Zeugma, each with a concise history describing its significance, along with several pages of maps and cross-indexed names.  This makes it extremely useful for a student or as a companion to a general interest reader.  Naturally, any history book requires a focus, and this one is the Classical World of Greece, Roman and the Etruscans.  I found it especially useful for looking up the Roman names of modern European cities.  Highly recommended.	2005-01-31
US	52522278	R2IG7X89N54SU6	0060977108	887109454	The Physics of Star Trek	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Simply Great Stuff	\\"The Physics of Star Trek\\" takes a critical view of the science, specifically well physics as they exist in the Star Trek universe.  Every iteration of Star Trek from the \\"classic\\" first series up to Deep Space Nine is addressed in this very readable book.  This is not a snotty ivory-tower \\"Comic Book Guy\\" treatment:  the author makes very clear his respect for the series, and the fact the shows do get some things right.  Dr. Kraus takes the reader from warp drives, and phasers to the transporter and cloaking devices, with some time travel thrown in.  His explanations of special and general relativity are, I think, some of the best in print.  (They even drove me to dig out my copy of \\"The Meaning of Relativity\\" by Einstein-which I quickly put back on the shelf realizing there was a time I actually could follow the equations...)  The bottom line is while some of the technology is theoretically possible i.e. warp drives, just ain't no way Scotty's ever going to/did? Beam anybody anywhere.  The material is written in such an approachable way, that this would make a great supplement text for a high-school physics or calculus class.  Highly recommended-even if you're not a Star Trek fan.	2005-01-28
US	52522278	R7EPDRLUBH1Z0	9612010919	259799554	A brief history of Slovenia: Historical background of the Republic of Slovenia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Concise, but sometimes distracting	Certainly, \\"A Brief History of Slovenia\\" lives up to its name:  the story takes us from pre-Roman settlement to potential EU/NATO membership in less than 250 pages.  Each chapter clearly hits the high points, plus includes some details about the people who figured prominently in Slovenian (and to a lesser degree Yugoslavian) history.  The translators did a great job overall, the narrative has pretty good flow.  At times though, the book assumes the reader is already familiar with Slovenian notables, omitting some biographical detail and confusing the reader (well this reader at least).  In other spots, there are almost Biblical lists of names-again without having some background, these names don't mean much.  This book could be an additional text for a Balkan/Yugoslavian history course, or research for a tourist heading to that part of Europe.	2005-01-28
US	52522278	R3URZIV8FBJW6L	0935039813	701226468	Streetwise Vienna (Streetwise)	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	The only map you'll need for Vienna	This map has the mosted visited sections of Vienna clearly printed -on one side (bonus!), along with a pretty comprehensive street index on the back.  Additionally, like all \\"Streetwise\\" maps, points of interest, landmarks for tourist navigation and major hotels/restaurants are also clearly marked.  Great whether it's your first trip there, or have some experience in the city.  Certainly the best part about this map, heck the whole series, is the maps are laminated. This makes 'em easy to fold, and is particularly useful in the rain; no small advantage over a paper map in Europe.  I suggest using them with an alcohol pen to trace routes and ID spots you want to visit that aren't already printed.  When Streetwise starts producing maps with Lat/Longs on them (for GPS), these maps will definitely get 5-stars from me.	2004-09-29
US	52522278	RHPYP9TEVM5C8	1886705208	636954346	Streetwise Prague Map - Laminated City Center Street Map of Prague, Czech Republic	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	Great resource	I have to admit, I'm biased towards the \\"Streetwise\\" series.  Having spent a great deal of time in Europe both on my own and as a tour guide, I learned quickly to appreciate the value of these maps.  The Prague version naturally has most of the tourist areas:  Mala Strana, Karlovy Most, the Jewish Quarter, Hradacny Castle plus landmarks, points of interest and major hotels/restaurants on one side:  great for navigating around the city.  Also, it has an overview of the Metro system, and street index on the back.  The single-sided plan saves having to switch back and forth while maneuvering around tourists/traffic.  But the lamination is the greatest idea:  waterproof and easy to write on and erase.  I would suggest an alcohol pen to mark routes etc on your copy.  All this map needs is a Lat/Long grid to be an ideal tool for visiting Prague.	2004-09-29
US	52522278	R34IGSHY41MUL2	0679746641	606133912	Fields of Battle: The Wars for North America	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Summary of North American Military History	John Keegan is one of the most respected military historians writing today.  \\"Fields of Battle\\" is his surveyof of wars, and warfare, in North America:  from European settlement up to the Civil and Indian Wars; ending with WW2.  The connecting thread of these differing conflicts is due to the hugeness of the land, at least to Europeans, fortifications took on an importance totally unlike that of Europe.  These \\"centers of gravity\\" in a wilderness naturally pulled opposing forces toward them, spawning battles and campaigns throughout the late 18th and 19th Centuries.  Moreover, this reality of settlement and conflict has vestiges in the American Way of Warfare into the 21st Century. <br /> <br />I think only a non-=American historian could have written this book.  As a transplanted American living in Germany, my sense of wonder in the village I lived in (founded AD 800) was amusing to my German neighbors.  When it's all around you and you are immersed in it, sometimes we become too jaded to our own history.  Mr Keegan has an affection for the land and people of the U.S., without becoming sentimental or naive.  In fact his introductory chapter, \\"An Englishmans' America\\" is possibly the best one in the book.  Clearly aimed at the general reader rather than a military historian, this book might be good additional material for an undergrad US military history course.  Recommended.	2004-09-26
US	52522278	RDCUOFOAE92J2	0195205286	329123902	The Oxford Book of Military Anecdotes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Diverse collection for the historian or average reader	Max Hastings has compiled a truly stellar group of personal stories of campaigns dating from the Bible to the Falklands War.  Each item is briefly introduced, with any background needed to understand the context of the story as it relates to the battle or campaign.  It being the \\"Oxford Book of Military Anecdotes\\" the emphasis is on British history, but there's also a fair number of French, and American stories thrown in as well. Active or retired military members of most countries will especially enjoy the fights against bureaucracy going back to the Napoleonic Wars-plus ca change I guess.  Anyway, it's too bad though, that almost no German or Russian stories are included-but any anthology requires some fairly tough editing to make publication.  In fairness, Mr Hastings explains that there just weren't \\"that many\\" German anecdotes, and I expect that linguistic difficulties and sources (my copy is dated 1985) excluded the Russians.  A more surprising omission is a lack of ancient Greek military stories, a few of which are almost common knowledge (at least in military circles.) <br />The publishing date is, I think, the only real issue I have with the book.  After almost ten years, a new edition with Ancient Greece, plus maybe the Vietnam, and Gulf I/II would further enchance an excellent book.  Highly recommended.	2004-09-08
US	52522278	R182H1KPU3KX02	0850528348	258154195	A Tour of the Bulge Battlefield	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Take this book with you when you go	I was a battlefield tour guide in Europe for over three years.  One of our most popular tours was the Ardennes Offensive aka \\"The Battle of the Bulge\\".  Since we only had a day, we would drive up from Luxembourg City, paralleling the 3rd Army's relief route, and tour the Bastogne perimeter.  If I had this book, I would've recommended this to my customers who wished to visit other sites of the battle.  \\"A Tour of the Bulge Battlefield\\" is designed for the tourist who wishes to tour the battlefield(s) for himself/herself.  Well researched and written, one could almost use this book as a secondary source in itself.  The six chapters cover the entire battle, from the north around Stavelot, to the south in the Ettlebruch/Diekirch area.  Each chapter is in itself an excellent capsulation of the battle and movements, both German and American.  However, this is not a guidebook  in the traditional sense, there is nothing about lodging, and very little regarding food, and other questions most tourists have.  Also, what few maps there are inadequate, surprising considering this book is designed for auto-touring.<br /><br />If you get several maps, the excellent Michelin series comes to mind, plus a traditional guidebook, and some `net research regarding transport, renting a car in Belgium/Luxembourg/Germany, this book would make for an outstanding historical vacation.	2004-08-16
US	52522278	R1X6KAHRLMUKI8	0806526092	788583235	The World War II Bookshelf: 50 Must-Read Books: Fifty Must-Read Books	Books	5	23	24	N	N	This list is indeed a "Must Read"	WW2, according to some estimates is arguably the most wrote-about subject ever.  (Jesus Christ and Napoleon being good bets as well.)  For the average person, or heck the historian, the hundreds of books one finds even in the local bookstore beg the question, \\"So what's worth my money, and what's bogus?\\"  Mr. Dunnigan attempts to answer this question with a short list of fifty books, covering the strategic aspects of WW2.   The work includes popular history as well as scholarly books; the author's view being if you want to study the war, you're going to have to plod through some primary source material.  I'm not normally a huge fan of Mr. Dunnigan.  IMHO, he tends to dismiss inconvenient details in presenting his thesis.  But overall, the choices and evaluations of the author are pretty good- not much to critique here.  With two exceptions:  he touts his previous works, \\"Dirty Little Secrets of WWII\\" and \\"The Pacific War Encyclopedia\\" in an appendix.  Well, issues of ego aside, neither of these works is authoritative enough in my mind for inclusion in a list like this.  That aside, this is a great reference for anyone to start independent research in what is probably the most significant event, ever.	2004-08-16
US	52522278	R141263JN5FCFO	0684865106	627941369	Lone Star Rising	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Worthy Companion to "Three Roads to the Alamo"	This work is an outstanding history:  scholarly with extensive footnotes, but written in accessible manner for the \\"average person\\".  This book is timely, with the release of the movie \\"Alamo\\" after the holidays, popular interest in this siege and the Texas Revolution as a whole is rising.   The standard cast of characters is here, but Mr. Davis goes much farther than a retelling of the interaction of these American icons-for that, \\"Three Roads to the Alamo\\" is outstanding- and shows how the influence of the American and French Revolutions affected the Spanish colonists in \\"Tejas\\".  As American colonists, \\"filibusters\\", moved into Texas territory, they refused to integrate into Mexican culture, and soon became a problem.  With the Mexican Revolution against Spain diverting government attention, the American colonists demanded more and more autonomy.  A liberal army officer, Santa Anna, managed to defeat the royalists and try to gain some control over a huge land and heterogeneous culture.  Surprisingly, Stephen Austin and others recommended allying with Santa Anna, petitioning his government for said greater autonomy (leading ultimately to independence for the more radical colonists).   After putting Austin in prison, combat actions begin as the colonists protest this and other actions.  For his part, Santa Anna realizes that Texas is more than a threat to his power:  it may be the beginning of a Mexican disintegration.      What the author reveals is something more than a revolt against \\"tyranny\\" with mythic heroes, and something considerably less than a mere Anglo land-grab as some revisionist histories claim.  This book, in conjunction with his previously mentioned \\"Three Roads to the Alamo\\" gives both the average reader, and the historian a detailed discussion of this part of Texas history, and a social history of the US in the early 19th Century.  Highly recommended.	2004-08-16
US	52522278	R16YW11BXH9GO8	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Subject deserves something better	\\"Pegasus Bridge\\", describes 6th Airborne Division's planning and execution of the seizure of a crucial bridge near Caen in the British invasion sector.  Originally written in 1984 in time for the 40th anniversary of  Neptune/Overlord, it is a straightforward retelling of this mission, relying extensively on participant's reminisces and memoirs.  The most interesting part of the book is the first few chapters, where the commander Major Howard relates how he overcame the personal and institutional obstacles to train his company, and get this mission.  In short that mission was to seize the bridge in a coup-de-main operation, and hold it until relieved by ground forces moving forward from the beaches.  Otherwise, the story is really not much more than an extended magazine article in terms of what we learn about this operation, and the 6th Airborne Division's role in D-Day.  While there's nothing quite like first-person accounts to give immediacy and personalize the action, they are always fret with dangers for historians.  Memories fade (especially after some 40 years), chronologies can get confused, and sometimes one's own participation becomes somewhat more important than it was historically.  (We're all the stars of our own lives-deservedly so.)  At least two other popular histories, \\"The Longest Day\\" and \\"Overlord:  D-Day and the Battle for Normandy\\" describe this battle and its relevance much better.  The work itself is idiosyncratic as the author, an American historian, adopts British expressions and terms throughout his narrative-not just in the quotes and citations.  Maybe his publisher insisted on this to aim the book at a British audience, but this seems like pandering to sell books to me.    As a way to get a post-\\"Saving Private Ryan\\"/\\"Greatest Generation\\" American readership to realize that the Allies also had a pivotal role in this campaign, and capture some oral-history it succeeds well.  As far as adding anything significant to the battle or campaign, it's a mediocre work at best.	2004-08-16
US	52522278	R3EGNKWQT79WE	0806524154	870116089	The Perfect Soldier: Special Operations, Commandos, and the Future of Us Warfare	Books	3	27	27	N	N	Not Definitive, but a good survey with reservations	Dunnigan's book is certainly timely.  Special Operations Forces (SOF) from all US services (USCG included), and allies have been making headlines in Afghanistan and Iraq for almost two years.  The &quot;Quiet Professionals&quot;, contrary to US Media propaganda, generally eschew ANY sort of public attention.  For the reader with an interest, and little background, in Special Operations then, finding surveys/histories is problematic. After giving a history of special operations forces and their derivation, the author shows how some of the selection methods are applied to many first-world nation's volunteer forces; thus making them also &quot;perfect soldiers&quot; into the 21st Century.  His best work is the short history of warfare, where &quot;warrior cultures&quot; are bested by military professionals (US military bureaucrats spouting about &quot;warrior ethos&quot; take note).  His descriptions of operations in Vietnam, the Gulf I/II and Afghanistan are quite good as well.  The &quot;reservations&quot; I refer to above have to do with some of his linkage and conclusions.  While it's probably fair to link the fieldcraft of neolithic hunting parties with that of SOF (John Keegan's belief is that the arduous selection and training is designed to reinstill those skills that our ancestors grew up practicing.), it's going too far to consider them &quot;commando/SOF&quot; units in any sense.  WW1 Stosstruppen were simply line-infantry given some retraining in tactics and new weapons, no special selection or skills in operating behind enemy lines was given or expected.  Also, the author gets some details wrong, details that could've easily been corrected had the manuscript been reviewed by someone with SOF experience-but this is minor.<BR>Overall,some good information, but some stretching of history to fit his thesis, keeps me from recommending this book completely.	2004-03-28
US	52522278	RNW768LC2SR6W	0929712714	55989596	Cult Vegas: The Weirdest! The Wildest! The Swingin'est Town on Earth	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Unique City requires a Unique History	\\"Cult `Vegas\\" is not a history of Las Vegas per se, rather a history of casino entertainment from the rise of the Strip and Fremont Street in the 1950s up to the \\"family destination\\" of the early 21st Century.  From the earliest days of legalized gambling, entertainment of one sort or another was key to get gamblers in the establishment.  Later, the Rat Pack stimulated the aura of a \\"cool swingin'\\" Las Vegas.  As Mr. Weatherford points out this was probably a reputation that the city held on to way too long.  The rise and decline of the Lounge Singer, showgirls, Elvis and the Rat Pack are described with a clearly nostalgic eye.  But the author doesn't hesitate to show the faded polyester leisure suit image of Las Vegas during the locust years of the mid 70's.  He points out that holding on to the schlocky comics, and warmed over crooners moved the entertainment of Las Vegas away from the tourists with the most disposable income:  singles and couples.  Films about Las Vegas are also part of the \\"Cult\\" and those with the city as subject or backdrop are listed and critiqued.  The book itself is quirky, with lots of sidebars and anecdotes but this fits the overall tone of the prose.  This is a great anecdotal history of postwar casino entertainment, that would make a great souvenir or as another reviewer wisely suggested, cool reference material for your next trip (whether you're a local or a tourist).  If you're at all interested in Las Vegas-get this.	2004-01-28
US	52522278	RPVVK6R5W0EKE	0156005492	198406169	Under the Black Flag: The Romance and the Reality of Life Among the Pirates (Harvest Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Reasoned Survey of Pirating in the 17th/18th Centuries	Under the Black Flag is a history of Pirates during the era when they entered the popular imagination.  For Europe and America this is from 1650 or so until government action essentially eliminated them in the mid 18th Century.  Additionally, the book outlines activities of some of the more successful Asian pirates; not often see in a \\"Western\\" work.  While historians normally pursue \\"truth\\", the sometimes unpleasant reality is that History is basically perception.  The enduring image of pirates in the public:  Long John Silver/\\"Aargh matey\\" etc, etc, is also a part of their history, and the author takes this seriously in his work.  The notables are here Edward \\"Blackbeard\\" Teach, Captain Morgan, Captain Kidd, Annie Bonney, and Mary Read.  But there are also some lesser known (and much more successful paradoxically) characters including some excellent coverage of piratical operations in and around China.    The book is not just a collection of bios, but has chapters concerning the social and economic realities of going \\"a pyrating\\".  Unlike some earlier works on piracy that have a revisionist axe to grind, this author confronts \\"issues\\" straight on without fanfare:  Homosexuality?  In an era where \\"sodomy\\" was a death sentence there is no evidence of greater homosexual activity than in the population at large.  Prototypical feminist pirates?  There were some female sailors and pirates sure, but their careers were frankly not overly successful-no better or worse than many others.  Captain Kidd's buried treasure?  Well pirates were after ANYTHING they could get, molasses, timber, slaves, supplies.  X marks the spot is pure legend generated by legions of authors and films.   For anyone interested in this subject, \\"Under the Black Flag\\" is a great resource.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-27
US	52522278	R39CPA5TMG84N3	0786707593	97041690	A Scandalous History of the Roman Emperors	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Guilty Pleasure that really isn�t	\\"A Scandalous History of the Roman Emperors\\" probably makes you think of a work that drools over the purported sexual, gustatory, and social perversions of the Julio-Claudians.   (Not that there's anything especially wrong with that.) Well, fortunately it's much more than that.  It actually is a fairly scholarly (despite the author's disclaimer) social history of Rome for the early portion of the Empire.  Chapters are devoted to Sex, naturally, Food, Politics and bios of three of the Emperors.  The downside is the previously mentioned three bios only.  Strange, given the title.  However, the space given to Roman society would be the strength of the book even with sketches of all the Julio-Claudians.  The tone of the book is conversational, with some excellent parallels and contrasts with late 20th century European society.  If you are looking for a book that discusses Roman society without a hefty dose of quotes from Livy, Juvenal, Suetonius et al; and one you could finish in a day or two, by all means read this book.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-27
US	52522278	R35EDWD5KIU291	0618057064	329852487	Controversies and Commanders: Dispatches from the Army of the Potomac	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating essays on the Civil War	&quot;Commanders and Controversies&quot; is a series of essays, some previously published, on issues and personalities that still leave enthusiasts, and some historians, shaking their heads.  Dan Sickles, the &quot;General's Revolt&quot;, and thoughts on the infamous lost orders 191 are just three of the chapters.  As with any collection like this, some of the essays are more interesting to this reader than others.  The chapter of the court martial of Fitz-John Porter being one of the latter.<BR>Perhaps the most interesting chapter is &quot;Fighting Joe&quot; Hooker's.  Sears thesis is he was/is unjustly condemned after Chancellorsville.  His subordinates, who frankly varied widely in simple competence, worked against him and his plan, turning what should have been a battle of annihilation into another defear for the Army of the Potomac.  Sears made this point as well in his outstanding &quot;Chancellorsville&quot;, but here he adds a little more background and detail.  Overall, this is a great read, like all Sears' works and good history as well.  Recommended.	2003-09-22
US	52522278	R68IPHZ17OWX0	0684859793	531000691	Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Milestone in Civil War History	&quot;Lee's Lieutenants&quot; was for many years, the seminal work on the Civil War.  This series of volumes almost single-handedly defined Civil War military history, and was a textbook in military academies throughout the world.  In fact, it was so authoritative that it focused academic and popular attention on the Army of Northern Virginia and the Eastern Theater; almost denuding the Western and Trans-Mississippi theaters of any mention at all either in the classroom, or popular histories.  Although originally published in the early '30's, it is still &quot;required reading&quot; for Civil War historians in the early 21st Century.  The current edition in a single volume retains the power of the original series, but without the extraneous appendices and footnotes.  The result is a scholarly history that moves quickly, and holds your attention.<BR>That being said, the book certainly reflects the agenda of its author, even with (or maybe because of) skillful editing.  Growing with the propaganda of the &quot;Lost Cause&quot; permeating his home and surroundings, Mr. Freeman wanted to capture many of the storis of the ANV he heard as a youth, supported by original research.  In areas, this desire almost turns the prose into a Confederate Iliad, with perfect physical specimens joyfully lusting for combat.  Certainly no discussion of the higher rights and wrongs of the rebellion will be found here (unusual considering that R.E. Lee opposed both secession and slavery and would've made an interesting sidelight into his pysche).  That caveat in mind, this is STILL required reading for anyone seriously interested in the ANV, or command as practiced by Civil War armies.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-22
US	52522278	R11EU7EUXUPC3D	1590170172	255337606	The World of Odysseus (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The &quot;Odyssey&quot; and &quot;Iliad&quot; in their historical contexts	&quot;The World of Odysseus&quot; is a book with a unique intent:  use archaeology and what historians have pieced together about pre-Classical Greece to describe the society that Odysseus (and the other characters of the Odyssey/Iliad) would have known at the time of the Trojan War.  From theorizing about Homer's identity, to speculating on the relationship between Penelope and Odysseus, the author succeeds in a sotry nearly as interesting as the Odyssey itself.<BR>In any discussion about Homer and the epics, invariably questions arise about their historicity.  Whole forests have been felled, and TV programs of varying (to say the least) accuracy have been broadcast about this point.  The autor contends that such discussion is tangential to the real issue:  the myth itself is important in what the content tells us about Greek society of the time-roughly 1200 BC.  Thus, considering that Homer is relating actual locations and personages, but assuming the tales about the Gods were satire totally misses the point of the poems.  All aspects of society are covered:  customs, religion and class all get well written chapters.  A pretty solid social history of Bronze-Age Greece.  What tells against the book though is its age.  Naturally the latest archaeology and theories don't appear here.  Recommended as excellent background to the study of these two epic poems.	2003-09-22
US	52522278	R2KPEQ6G82Z704	030680509X	284121103	Military Memoirs Of A Confederate	Books	5	70	71	N	Y	A Civil War Classic and powerful Memoir	This book is the work of one of Lee's Lieutenants, General Edward Porter Alexander.  Alexander was Longstreet's artillery commander for most of the Civil War.  As such, he saw action in the Eastern Theater from 1st Manassas, through to the surrender at Appomattox Courthouse.  After the war, he was encouraged by General Longstreet to write a history of his Corps.  Unfortunately after completing most of the primary research, very few of the officers he contacted were willing to give him the first person authoritative accounts he wanted.  What he instead was to write a memoir that almost 100 years later is still the model of historical writing.<BR>For historians the danger of memoirs is twofold.  First, many authors have an axe to grind and will suffer from &quot;selective memory&quot; in retelling their experiences.  Also, but less deliberately, we are all the leading stars of our lives (if you aren't you oughta be).  Taking center stage, authors can appear to have a larger role in the subject than they should otherwise have.  With General Alexander's book though, there is no romanticism of the &quot;Lost Cause&quot;, nor hero worship of the Lee/Jackson pantheon.  Alexander dispassionately relates the campaigns he saw, with insightful critiques of the leaders of both sides.  He doesn't spare himself from criticism either; you don't often see that in a memoir.<BR>Anyone with a serious interest in Civil War campaigns should have this book in their library.  However, if you are looking for a Confederate mea culpa, or a social history you should look elsewhere.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-22
US	52522278	R3C4RN0HWE6T5D	0807847224	835980474	Fighting for the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward Porter Alexander (Civil War America)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Must-Read for anyone interested in the Civil War	General Alexander's &quot;Military Memoirs&quot; saw great commercial and critical success when it was published shortly after the turn of the century.  His children were constantly asking him for more of a &quot;what it was like&quot; memoir, without all the scholarly overtones.  To satisfy them, he drafted a 1200 page manuscript while away on a job in Nicaragua.  It disappeared over the years, and was only rediscovered about 10 years ago.  With some excellent editing to fill in the blanks in the author's memory, &quot;Fighting for the Confederacy&quot; should be required reading for every Civil War enthusiast.<BR>Compared to his other work, this book is much more personal and informal.  He includes some great detail on what military service was like in Utah Territory and California immediately before the war.  Like his other book though, he is neither a romantic about the Confederacy (or apologetic for that matter), nor sparing of his views of commanders North or South.  If you have an interest in the Civil War, but not especially details of the campaigns, this is probably the better book by Alexander-praise indeed.  However, the military historian would benefit from this book as well as &quot;Military Memoirs&quot;.  Highly Recommended.	2003-09-22
US	52522278	RGRULQZXO0K8E	192963109X	565412879	Hitler and His Generals: Military Conferences 1942-1945	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An important primary source for WW2 Germany	This book is a compilation of conference transcripts from the daily military conferences between Hitler, his staff, and other members of the Nazi hierarchy.  Unfortunately for the reader, many of these conference minutes exist in a fragmentary form.  Primarily, this was due to destruction after the war, but also that these were taken down in real time; and whatever the stenographer heard is what was recorded.  The editors have done an impressive job with filling in the gaps where possible:  adding background information on personalities and operations often referred in an off-hand manner.  (Not surprising given that the attendees would have the continuity of background from ongoing discussions not recorded here.)  <br />The gaps are the real drawback here:  conference minutes for the most critical of times such as Normandy and immediately after the 20 July 1944 assassination attempt are missing.  Also, following the flow of discussion is sometimes problematic at best.  Additionally, one cannot often tell whether the conference is discussion or Hitler's infamous rants.  But for someone determined to slog through, Hitler's control of even the most trivial issues, (for example which unit should get the next tank replacements) is brought into focus.    His yes-men, Halder and Jodl also clearly show their support of even the most idiotic of decisions.<br />Obviously such a primary source document isn't for someone with a general interest in World War II.  But a reader with familiarity with Hitler's Germany and military operations would find this worthwhile.  Highly recommended.	2003-04-25
US	52522278	R2PYAPFO6RP9VC	0609808443	187071102	How Hitler Could Have Won World War II: The Fatal Errors That Led to Nazi Defeat	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Some good analysis, but ultimately not satisfying	\\"How Hitler Could Have Won the War\\" takes as its basis Hitler had basically won the war in 1941, and through poor strategic decision making, lost it by 1943.  Churchill's famous comment about \\"the terrible if's\\" not withstanding,  the author does some excellent  political-economic analysis, basically concluding that not \\"finishing off\\" Britain before turning on the USSR doomed him to defeat.  In the author's estimation, pursuing the war in North Africa would have brought Britain to its knees, thus freeing up German forces to concentrate on obtaining \\"Lebensraum\\" in the East.<br /> Such analysis was fairly commonplace in the West in the mid-1980s, especially from British historians.  With the opening of archives in former East Germany and the USSR though, a different proposition for German victory is apparent-and this author doesn't discuss it.  One needs to look at the strategic situation in 1941, not through Anglo-American but German eyes.  Most of Europe is directly allied, occupied or politically associated with Nazi Germany.  Britain has NO military forces that may directly threaten either German operations in theater, or the homeland (British strategic bombing killed more aircrews than civilians and did negligible damage to German industry in 1940-42).  The only continental threat remaining IS the USSR.  A war with the Soviets, before the US could enter in strength, would achieve German aims for European (not World despite Allied agitprop) domination.  As far as the 1941 campaign in Russia, it DID in fact achieve its aims: Stalin tried to negotiate a \\"Brest-Litovsk\\" in 1941, and offered to cede territory conquered in the Winter War back to Finland.  Only Hitler's strategic intransigence and obsession with Aryan racial supremacy prevented a settlement.   <br /> In North Africa, staff studies commissioned in 1940 showed that to maintain a mechanized operations tempo and achieve a strategically viable result, i.e. seizing the Suez Canal, would require at least 4 Panzer/Panzer Grenadier divisions plus Corps-level assets.  The study further revealed that existing supply infrastructure could not adequately sustain such a force for any length of time.  The harsh reality of geography and British naval supremacy in the Mediterranean made such a campaign unlikely at best.   <BR>\\"How Hitler Could Have Won the War\\", is well-written with some very good analysis of Hitler's political objectives, but ultimately falls into a familiar \\"Hitler fought a two-front war\\" theme, and doesn't examine contemporary evidence to the contrary.  Recommended for anyone looking for background in counter-factual WW2 subjects.	2003-04-25
US	52522278	R1JXVJFV3E0YBS	0670030406	595178284	The Battle of Alamein: Turning Point, World War II	Books	2	20	24	N	N	Well written, badly researched popular history	The Battle of Alamein is actually more than a retelling of that battle (hardly THE turning point of WW2; but in fairness to the authors this is the US title), rather it's an overview of the desert war. As an overview of the British and Italian armies of the period, it's acceptable: as a military history it is less successful. This work suffers from a typical problem authors encounter (usually unwittingly) when they use interviews almost exclusively. This is naturally the fallibities of human memory. After more than 50 years events can become clouded, rearranged or distorted. <BR>Errors of fact especially regarding equipment and tactics, are rife in this work, revealing the authors' lack of research. German tanks are described as diesel-powered and superior to British equivalents-wrong on both accounts. Additionally German ranks and unit designations are flat wrong; and are ascribed to interviews with German veterans. An example: A german veteran supposedly calls his unit's weapons \\"Schmeissers\\" and \\"Spandaus\\". No German veteran would ever do so. Either he was editing for his audience, or his interview was recast for the book; both are unacceptable for a history. But the most spectacular mistake is that the authors seem to be blissfully unaware that Winston Churchill was First Lord of the Admiralty before he became Prime Minister!  They also go easy on Montgomery where he is most subject to a dispassionate critique. Namely, his lackluster pursuit of Panzer Armee Afrika as it retreats across Libya. Here we read a version of the \\"Great Man\\", where Montgomery is well intentioned but badly served by his subordinate commanders, and a worn-out Eighth Army. Frankly, that IS a commander's job-to drive his forces if required to find, fix and destroy the enemy. If his forces were exhausted, then the under-fueled, under-fed and under-armed Axis forces were the walking dead. <BR>For a casual reader the information on the Italian Army in the desert might be enlightening, howeverif the authors submitted this as a history paper to me I'd give them a C+. Not recommended.	2003-02-21
US	52522278	R1ZGV1F14U0W9C	1572492600	86928537	Hawaii Goes to War: The Aftermath of Pearl Harbor	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Not enough social history	This book is essentially a manuscript of memoirs, (the impression I had was a thesis) written by the daughter of a Naval officer stationed at Pearl.  The day-to-day details of pre-war life in Hawaii (considered an exotic location to most Americans in the early '40s) are well described.  The civilian impressions of post-attack Honolulu are also the strengths of this work.  The book is less successful as it attempts to describe the progress of the war.  It probably would have been better to relate the war news &quot;as heard&quot; at the time, and the ups and downs of civilian morale dealing with the news, and the thousands of servicemen descending on the islands.  <BR>All in all, a fairly good read, but not an in-depth memoir of civilian life in wartime Hawaii.	2003-02-21
US	52522278	R3NTJL9SF10UE3	0517378108	677137820	Complete Encyclopedia Of Battleships	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Best single reference source on Battleship development	This work not only details every Capital ship class from ca 1870 to the 1980s, it also has an excellent narrative on the history of ironclad development.  The famous are here:  Dreadnought, Bismarck, Yamato, the Iowa class.  Additionally, the lesser known:  Capital ships from nearly every country that sailed a coast defense ship, plus such naval powers as Austria-Hungary (yes Austria actually had a sea-going battle fleet), Brazil, and China.  <BR>Each reference is listed by displacement, armor, armament and disposition, along with powerplant and top speed.  Perfect for naval wargamers to develop their own campaigns.  If you are such a person, or just have a general interest in these &quot;ultimate weapons&quot; of last 150 years by all means acquire this work.  Highly recommended.	2002-10-20
US	52522278	R18G4Q3JWK4D4U	0060936142	826438700	Mike Nelson's Mind over Matters	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Great successor to &quot;Movie Megacheese&quot;	Mike Nelson was the host of one of the longest running comedies on TV, MST3k.  After its passing he took his writing talents directly to print.  The previous book was not surprisingly related directly to TV/film.  This one is more of a semi-random collection of essays about daily life.  Whether pointing out that it's teenagers in mall focus groups that REALLY censor a movie director's vision, or that &quot;lunch is a pretty good meal&quot;, MOST of the chapters will have you laughing out loud.  Others, well, it IS a random collection of essays after all.  Certainly the hits greatly outnumber the misses. Anyway, if you were a fan of the MST3k-style of humor, and don't mind mentally shifting gears from chapter to chapter, you probably oughta pick this up...	2002-10-19
US	52522278	R3HIMMESS1DC4F	0425176428	539869630	What If?: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Uneven at best	\\"What If?\\" has a great thesis: Allow historians to speculate on alternative outcomes to pivotal events in (primarily military) history. While some of the essays are thought provoking: What if the Persians had won at Salamis, making mainland Greece a Persian satrapy?; most are spectactularly uninspiring: Suppose the Confederate States of America won the US Civil War ...Britain had stayed out of World War I, and the Western Allies are defeated in Normandy. The general premise behind the UK staying out of the events of 1914, is completely at odds with Britain's foreign policy since Napoleon-maintaining a balance of power in Europe so no one power/alliance can gain dominance and threaten Britain. The author spends much time on the \\"scrap of paper\\" when Belgium is invaded by Germany and next to NO TIME on the strategically unnecessary naval challenge that the Kaiser provoked. Realistically, to keep Britain out of that conflict would have taken a Kaiser very different than Wilhem II. <BR>As for D-Day, naturally the late Stephen Ambrose and his trumpeting of the \\"most important day in history\\" would take the position that a failure would cost the war. What he failed to consider would be the rethinking of strategy: Churchill had all along favored a Med strategy and protested over sealift assets being diverted to France. With a failed NW France thrust, his arguments would make sense and a reinvigorated Italian/Balkan strategy might seem advisable. Additionally, he completely ignored Operation Dragoon an invasion in the South of France in August 1944! <BR>Unfortunately, the more famous historians seem to have simply \\"gotten the publisher of my back\\" and just put something together that is not fully counterfactual.  Disappointing...	2002-10-19
US	52522278	R31EW04TWZ6OVJ	0375759719	833939554	The Travel Detective Flight Crew Confidential: People Who Fly for a Living Reveal Insider Secrets and Hidden Values in Cities and Airports Around the World	Books	3	4	5	N	N	So, ask someone...	like the flight attendant, or even better the person at the car rental stand.  Many of the tips here are okay, I guess, but certainly anyone's who's an experienced traveler already has a few &quot;gems&quot; that they frequent whenever they find themselves in a certain city.  If you are an infrequent traveler, or are simply a little shy about asking advice from others; you might benefit from this book.  Also, its size is ideal to fit into a carry-on bag/backpack.  Worth reading.	2002-10-19
US	52522278	R1C0H61GJ2ITLP	1562613774	126431710	The DEL-World's Top Retirement Havens	Books	3	22	22	N	N	Good for General &quot;Wishing&quot; or to start planning	This guide has general tips and contacts for what are the top overseas retirement destinations for Americans.  For each country there are suggested locations and real estate options that would be of use to retirees.  Locations that have substantial US/UK populations are also noted, for the not-quite-so adventurous.  As stated above, this work is most useful for someone who's maybe thinking about living overseas, and wants to look at the pro's and cons.  OR, convincing your &quot;Significant Other&quot; that yes you can actually live at that great vacation spot on Crete....<BR>Anyone who's already deep into planning for such a move, or has spent considerable time overseas would probably already know most of the information provided here.	2002-10-19
US	52522278	R2A6M9A3LT23XV	184176096X	968069895	The Osprey Encyclopedia of Russian Aircraft (General Aviation)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Best Single Reference source in English or Russian	Many books tout, &quot;new information never before seen from the Soviet archives&quot;, but few really deliver anything substantial.  Mr Gunston though, has achieved what many historians hoped would happen with former Iron Curtain material coming to light: a truly enlightening book.  Many of the details of the Soviet design bureaus, let alone some of the experimental aircraft have never had their stories told before.  The depth of this work exceeds anything I've seen in the West, or Russia.  The listings of aircraft before 1917 are almost worth the price alone.  However, the prose is terse to say the least, one would have thought an additional few pages could have been spared for descriptions/tech data.  Also, some of the comments are, well if not quite from the sales brochure, they're close.  Mr Gunston has a reputation for taking manufacturer data at face value.  Certainly his comments on the MiG21 and 29 don't give the reader the full story of real combat limitations of these otherwise fine designs.<BR>That said though, this an encyclopedia no aviation enthusiast, or Russian historian should be without.  Well worth the money.	2002-07-17
US	52522278	R23ROINUUHB641	1854091271	213270810	Richthofen: Beyond the Legend of the Red Baron	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Good bio, but frankly not much new ground here	&quot;Richtofen&quot; purports to &quot;use the newly released archives of the former East Germany&quot; to add some detail to basic outline of Manfred von Richtofen's life.  The book does justice to its subject; no doubt about that.  The narrative has many first-person accounts, and copious footnotes.  But for all that, there's frankly not much REALLY new here at all.  Most of what is new is minutae:  this victory is not RE8 S/N 05638 but RE8 S/N 61645-type statements.  <BR>The author does include the latest research on the Fokker Dr1 and demythologizes that aircraft at least.  (Richtofen wasn't overly enchanted with it, contrary to legend, but the fighter he really wanted the DVII wasn't ready.)  I was frankly surprised to see a serious gap in the research that I read while living in Germany.  The Luftwaffe Surgeon-General pulled Richtofen's medical records out of the archives and made a possibly crucial psycho-physiological profile of him ca 1917/18.<BR>This profile concludes that his head injury sustained in 1917, was serious enough to permanently ground him (even at the time; German medicine in WW1 led the world).  He also found evidence that the famous nurse who attended him, Kaetie Obersdorf was a compromise between the Surgeon-General's office and Richtofen/High Command.  Finally, and most relevant for Kilduff's book, the profile's author proposes that chronic symptoms from the injury may have impaired Richtofen's judgement: leading to his fatal mistakes on 21 April 1918.<BR>If you have a casual interest in Richtofen or WW1 fighter aviation, this book might be worthwhile.  Serious students/enthusiasts of Richtofen will learn nothing substantially new.	2002-06-21
US	52522278	R26HQ6WQ6B174D	0786706260	451055080	The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One-volume intro to Ripper literature	If you have an interest in Jack the Ripper/Victorian London, but are somewhat overwhelmed by the flood of theories, counter-theories and media sensationalism (like myself), this book is essential.  The authors have laid out the Chronology of the five murders (the &quot;accepted&quot; Ripper killings), along with bios of the victims, and their autopsies.  The most interesting part though is the chapter relating theories of Jack's identity, by the Ripperologists themselves.  The authors don't critique these theories, simply provide them for the reader's edification.  A small criticism might be that the theories aren't cross-referenced.  Some of the Ripperologists destroy other theories published in the book, and it becomes confusing to determine what the &quot;current&quot; theory is regarding Jack's identity.<BR>Overall though, for those with that general interest noted above, or simply want a single-volume compendium of Ripper literature, this book is highly recommended.  I would suspect that those with a deep knowledge of Ripper theories, and the details of the murders might find this a rehash...	2002-03-24
US	52522278	RCAI7B1LSWSBN	0684824477	475254826	Capone: The Man and the Era	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Good overview, of the Capones for a popular history	\\"Capone\\" not only details the life of Alphonse Capone, and the gangs of Prohibition-era Chicago, but also his family members.  The author makes the point, well almost his thesis frankly, that Capone was more than a common thug; he went to great pains to ingratiate himself with Chicagoans (and Floridians when he bought his estate there).  This is not a revisionist history, though:  the author clearly reminds us that Al had murdered others personally and ordered others to kill, and also profited from prostitution and protection rackets.  He was not simply a bootlegger as some romanticized bio's have made him.  <BR>An aspect of the Capone legend that must be addressed is his nemesis, at least in the popular conception, Eliot Ness.  Bergreen dispatches him to the relative obscurity that Ness historically deserves; it was the IRS quietly working behind the scenes that brought down Capone-not Ness' showboating.  The IRA agents who were the real heroes, get their story told in full.<br />Having said this, there are some shortcomings.  Too much space is given to his elder brother \\"Two-Gun\\" Hart.  As has been pointed out, his reputation is much exaggerrated, and the chapters devoted to him do not show the same research as Capone.  Speaking of sources, the author is probably a little too accepting of some statements made by those who were related or simply knew the subject.  All in all though, a good overview of Capone's life and death, and the machinations of Prohibition-era Chicago.	2002-03-23
US	52522278	R2MNNYF1PPYO78	067499101X	765032803	Xenophon: Anabasis (Loeb Classical Library) (English and Greek Edition)	Books	5	81	83	N	N	A Military Classic that's also a good adventure story	Xenophon wrote several books that survive: &quot;A History of My Times&quot; and &quot;Cavalry Tactics&quot; to name two, but the one he's most famous for, and arguably the best read is &quot;Anabasis&quot;.   A detailed accounting of moving 10,000 troops through hostile country, ulimately extracting them back to Greece.  The fact that this is a &quot;Classic&quot; shouldn't put off any readers who've plodded through ancient literature.  Xenophon wrote in an informal style, with much detail about the areas and peoples he encountered.  It's almost as much travel story as a study in military leadership; but it IS ultimately a recounting of leadership under the most deadly conditions.  <BR>There are some timeless lessons here for military and civilian leaders.  Xenophon fully explains his decisions (when he can), and ALWAYS asks for advice from other generals.  This was critically important in an army of mercenaries whose loyalty was to themselves.  Getting other leaders to &quot;buy into&quot; his decisions gave them a sense of empowerment (to use TQM jargon) and a stake in the outcome.  He tries to be fair and cares for his troops-though he doesn't hesitate to risk lives if the mission calls for it.  In battle he uses what might be termed asymmetric warfare: always pitting Greek strengths against enemy weaknesses; avoiding fighting the way his enemy fights best.<BR>This is a great memoir of an amazing feat of arms and personal leadership.  Highly recommended.	2001-12-14
US	52522278	R1H8KBMWD467EH	0517884046	840590768	Food in History	Books	5	96	99	N	N	Great Synopsis of Food, and also World History	Food in History is an excellent introduction to a piece of human history that is probably so obviously important it's not widely researched:  the crucial part that food played and plays in human society.  Sure, everyone learns about how the spice trade was a leading factor in the Age of Exploration, and the discovery of crop rotation in the early Middle Ages, which &quot;killed more than one child's interest in history&quot; as the author rightly points out.  This book goes much farther than that, showing the development of eating habits from neolithic man up to the early/mid 20th Century.  Along the way, the author points out some truths that will be unpleasant to the food faddists of the early 21st Century:  Humans ARE omnivores by evolution, and salt is also an evolution-induced craving, are just two of the basic points in the story of humans and food.  (Speaking of food fads, these aren't limited to our Century and the US, fruit was considered dangerous by more than one culture and for reasons that sound depressingly familiar concerning dietary recommendations today...)<BR>In a survey like this one, it can't do justice to EVERY culture's cuisine, but it does come close.  Roman, Arab, Indian, Asian, and the influence of the Americas on European foods are well covered.   The prose is lively, much wittier than I thought it would be given the subject, but also scholastic.<BR>Is this a &quot;popular&quot; history?  Yeah, I would say so, but there is also great material in here for the student and  historian. So much so, that Food in History would make a great supplemental book for a World History course.  Highly recommended.	2001-12-13
US	52522278	R1JNI5J9H2RYQA	0380017229	419595190	Annotated Christmas Carol	Books	5	9	9	N	N	"A Christmas Carol" in its proper historical context	Charles Dickens almost singlehandedly rescued what we in the early 21st Century consider \\"traditional\\" Christmas celebrations from extinction. His crusade against the Industrial Revolution's Utilitarianism, and Mammonism (Scrooge is the archetypal Utilitarian) is part of the reason behind this story. Some folks who know something of early Victorian England see that when they read this classic. But for most of us this underlying theme, plus the colloquial 19th Century English are a mystery.<BR>The \\"Annotated Christmas Carol\\" neatly solves this issue by fully explaining the story behind the story, and defining some of the more obscure contemporary references. Dickens basically wrote the story because he needed money quickly: his previous novel was only lukewarmly received by the public. Additionally, his desire to awaken a social consciousness in the British upper-class led him to a short story format. Given his long standing committment to keeping the celebrationsn of Christmas alive, the result is, for the English-speaking world anyway, as much a tradition as a tree and presents. <BR>The format is exactly as that for the first edition published in 1843, along with reproductions of Leech's original illustrations. Well researched and written notes in the columns allow the reader to follow along with explanations of terms, identification of likely locations, and the development of the ongoing theme. The book could likely benefit with a new edition, as the commentary seems to be written around 1975 or so. Even so, this is a book that any Dickens enthusiast will want to own, any Christmas Carol enthusiast for that matter...<BR>Highly Recommended.	2001-12-03
US	52522278	RC89BFDQ1GA3J	0821407015	74126815	Convivial Dickens: The Drinks of Dickens and His Times	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Background information on Dickens' Victorian England	One cannot help but notice that in 19th Century English literature a lot of drinking (and eating) is the order of the day.  Especially in the works of Charles Dickens, one is either in the local, gin shop, or having a &quot;cordial&quot; in a character's house.  Convivial Dickens is the reference guide to the waxing and waning popularity of beer, gin and mixed drinks in Victorian England-specifically the England of Dickens.  Each chapter covers a specific drink, beer or gin for example, gives the story of its popularization/decline, and includes recipes taken directly from 19th Century bartending guides.  These allow the reader to do some &quot;research&quot; on their own, to fully enjoy the atmosphere of the times.<BR>A pretty useful companion to any of Dickens' works, recommended.	2001-12-03
US	52522278	R2ZLJAXZQLKW94	0736648836	938818504	The Battle Of Arnhem	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Good &quot;read&quot;, but not the definitive accounting of Arnhem	This audiobook is a well detailed retelling of the planning, execution and ultimate outcome of the Arnhem/Oosterbeek battle-the &quot;Bridge Too Far&quot; of Operation Market-Garden.  The book adds new perspectives into the initial conception and attempts to answer the question, &quot;would it have worked?&quot;  These interesting insights,however, don't overcome some of the &quot;been there, read that&quot; impression one receives, along with some surprising errors in its historical research.<br />For example, early on the audiobook recites the bio of Wilhelm Bittrich, then commander of the II SS Panzerkorps.  It erroneously states that he was studying music and hoped to become a conductor.  This was refuted as long ago as 1975 in Ryan's &quot;A Bridge Too Far&quot;-an otherwise loose history itself. Other errors that reflect a manuscript that is older than the copyright date are the repeated use of the terms &quot;Schmeisser&quot; and &quot;Spandau&quot; for German SMGs and MGs respectively-both are inaccurate.  In discussing the history of 1st Airborne's Parachute Brigades, the author mentions the &quot;elite&quot; Hermann Goering Division. Another error, as this unit's training and combat record were average Wehrmacht.  These may seem trivial issues, but the fact the author didn't update his work to reflect recent scholarship limits the usefulness of this work.  A more significant lapse is a lack of comment on Gen Browning's desire to airlift his Corps HQ into the battle; where it had no combat role.  This 30 glider effort diverted resources from the most critical drop: the 72 hours to get 1st Airborne to Arnhem.  Another crucial omission is the veteran 6th Airborne Division Commander's comments concerning the drop and landing zones.  His view was Urquhart should have pressed harder on the RAF to move the DZ/LZs closer to the objective-a critical piece of information for someone who wishes to evaluate the 1st Airborne Commander's performance on this op.  <br />In fairness, the author does explode one of the &quot;Bridge Too Far Myths&quot; of Market-Garden: that of the tactical communications.  In truth, planners knew that due to the size of the landing zones that they would be out of communication for some time. This was not the surprise that some have made it out to be.  The audiobook also goes on to make the interesting point that even if more powerful radios were available (which they weren't, at least not in the 9 days of prep), the crews probably couldn't have properly used them anyway-in fact they had diffculties properly using their issued equipment.<br />As to the tape itself, the quality is satisfactory, but the reader's British upper-class drawl is of a nature guaranteed to annoy an American audience at least (though again in fairness, this audiobook is probably directed at a British audience). All in all, it's good but some old assumptions, and omissions keep me from completely recommending it, especially compared to Martin Middlebrook's &quot;Arnhem 1944&quot;.	2001-07-31
US	52522278	R33SU4CXJ9XKRF	0345436172	785008012	Hunting Warbirds: The Obsessive Quest for the Lost Aircraft of World War II	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Who's the Audience?	&quot;Hunting Warbirds&quot; primarily relates the story of the location and extraction of an RB-29 lost in Greenland in 1947.  As a story about modern archaeology it's fairly interesting, as a story about warbirds and collectors, it's superficial.  Other reviewers have clearly outlined the rambling nature of the prose: we go from Greenland, to the States for an interview with a &quot;unique&quot; collector (that doesn't really shed insight into Warbird Enthusiasts, except to say that some are obsessed. Anyone's who's been to a gaming or Star Trek convention can observe the same behaviors in the minority of attendees), back to Greenland.   But as I said above, &quot;Who's the audience here?&quot;  One of the concepts I was taught in my undergrad days was to write to the knowledge base of the target audience.  Mr Hoffman, seems to have ignored this advice in this work.  His NUMEROUS inaccuracies regarding WW2 aircraft, and aviation are enough to put off aviation enthusiasts, (the logical target audience) while the narrow scope of the book would discourage general readers.  The inaccuracies themselves always leave that &quot;what else is missing, misquoted or just plain wrong here?&quot; notion in the back of your mind.  This is frankly surprising since his resume includes &quot;Air &amp; Space&quot; and &quot;Smithsonian&quot; magazines.   Finally, a better book would have at least summarized the efforts in Finland, Germany, and Russia to recover some of their warbirds from WW2.  Operations that in ethnocentric America, don't get their deserved attention. If you are an aviation or WW2 aircraft enthusiast, you already know this story-the book offers no addtional insight-certainly none into WW2 salvage as a whole.  If you have a slight interest in the subject matter, the documentaries about the salvage operation are a better medium.	2001-05-30
US	52522278	R1W4ZBJ7AUY00V	0964225417	44585169	What the Hell Do Women Really Want: A Guide for Men in the 90s	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	Yes, it IS a curse to be called &quot;a nice guy&quot;	Men have joked about this for years:  &quot;Ugh, she called me a NICE GUY&quot;, knowing that this killed one's chances for any woman.  Well, it's true-a simplification maybe, but basically true.  This book is filled with much research based on evolutionary biology and presented in a direct manner.  If you are looking for a Touchy-feely, I'm OK-You're OK, Let's sing Kumbaya, relationship book; look elsewhere.  Personally, I find this type of directness refreshing.  For some readers who may fit the molds she describes, this book will be disturbing.  I believe that's the author's intent: shock therapy for complacent readers.  Read it, think about how it applies to your situation, and try it.  If the book doesn't work for you, Dr Clark is willing to do over the phone consultations-she's listed her office number and email.  Not many authors will do that. All in all, an impressive book for &quot;jerks&quot; and &quot;nice guys&quot;...	2000-11-27
US	52522278	R3MGK2JXP2A75H	0306803712	325929602	The Generalship Of Alexander The Great (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Unbiased critique of Alexander's military ability	JFC Fuller's book is a tightly focused analysis of Alexander's military campaigns.  He scrutinizes his strategy and tactics, and offers an insightful view of his successes and failures.  The author considers, rightly, that military operations and politics are closely integrated.  Some the discussion centers around Alexander's politcal strategy but is related to goals: did it assist or hinder his operations?  This is not a social history, anyone looking for discussion of Alexander's drinking habits, sexual preference, and meglomania would be advised to pass on this work.   The only aspect that is not of the caliber of the rest of the book, is the last chapter where Fuller assesses the Second World War using Alexander as a model.  Fuller was an outspoken critic of Churchill and the US during the war; in this instance he uses Alexander as his axe to grind.  His comparisons here are fatuous:  political structures of 300 BC bear no relation to those of 1945 AD. This aside, for anyone interested in a refreshingly un-biased view of Alexander this book is one to have.	2000-11-27
US	52522278	R2QBAKBZ8GKENU	0425166899	163667157	The Murder of Tutankhamen	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Interesting Theory but no more than a guess, really	In this work, the author claims that Tutankhamen was murdered, in fact the subtitle of the book is &quot;a true story&quot;.  Well, emphasis on the &quot;Story&quot;.  Using a single piece of evidence, allegedly a swelling on the base of the mummy's skull, he spins a tale of palace intrigue and political assasination.  This is certainly a good read, and a good introduction for someone to Egyptology, but it's not history.  There are some details that the author has left out or altered to make his point: first, he uses the funeral portraiture on Tutankhamen's tomb to hypothesize that Ay was setting himself up as successor.  Actually, in many tombs the &quot;opening of the mouth&quot; ceremony has the son of the deceased present.  If anything, Ay is showing his dedication to the king, portraying himself as the loyal subject-the arranger of the funeral.  By putting his face on the wall, he reminds Tutankhamen who performed the burial.  This may well be a way to ensure that &quot;Tut&quot; will remember Ay when he is dead. Secondly the author uses the term &quot;true of voice&quot; in describing on of Tutankhamen's names.  Not true, well not true while the king was alive.  &quot;True of voice&quot; is used when meeting Anubis, Thoth, and the heart is weighed against Ma'at; it's strictly funereal.  Speaking of Ay, there's simply no way to know what his motivations were, if any.  He left no record, and no other record has yet been found.  Finally, the comments of another reviewer concerning efforts to review the xrays and analysis raise suspicion.  Any scientist who refuses to release his data for scrutiny by colleagues must make one skeptical about any conclusions drawn.  I think the best analysis that could have been made would have been to take samples from the mummy for forensic exam.  If testing showed that Tutankhamen did not die from disease, then the author could have moved from that premise to the one he espouses here.  The strengths of the book are in the fusingof several different disciplines to attempt a solution of an ancient question.  The description of day-to-day life plus the details of Akhenaten alone make the book worth reading.	2000-10-09
US	52522278	RCV64E367TN0V	0275965465	680165985	From Confrontation to Cooperation: The Takeover of the National People's (East German) Army by the Bundeswehr (Praeger Studies in Diplomacy and Strategic Thought Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Required Reading for Contact Teams (and the S. Korean Army)	This book was orignially a doctoral dissertation that investigates the  processes the Bundeswehr developed to assimilate the National VolksArmee  (NVA) when Germany was reunited in 1990.  That the plan was an outstanding  success is attributed to Auftragstaktik (Mission Oriented Orders) and the  idea that equals work with equals.  There is a wealth of detail on the  mindset of the NVA and what education needed to be in place to assist their  transition to a western democracy and market economy, plus one of the best  definitions of Auftragstaktik I've ever seen in military literature. Also,  the rationale behind disposing of an immense amount of NVA equipment is  illustrated. Interestingly, the author makes the point that the former NVA  absorbed into the Bundeswehr have probably made that organization more  mentally prepared for out-of-area operations than it would otherwise be.   Anyone working with the new NATO or PfP countries, and especially those on  a Joint Contact Team will benefit from the insights the author gleans from  the Bundeswehr participants in the &quot;Take Over&quot;.  I would highly  recommend that members of the S. Korean military read this book, as they  may well be dealing with these issues in the coming decade.  The work  would, however, benefit from an update-it's been 10 years since  reunification:  has the Take Over worked well, or are there &quot;two  Bundeswehrs&quot;?  Given the Bundeswehr's draw-down is the influence of  the former NVA correspondingly greater?  Or, were former NVA targeted for  separation/retirement under the current reduction?  These questions would  make an already superb resource even more relevant to the socio-political  events in Germany and Europe.  Highly recommended for military analysts and  students of international relations.	2000-08-28
US	52522278	R1MAI5OM4DQA95	0393047342	80979257	Too Good to Be True: The Colossal Book of Urban Legends	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	It's a great read but sadly not much analysis	This book would make excellent summertime reading.  Certainly the author's dedication to dispelling urban myths is laudable. What caught my attention was the repeated instances of the media parroting these legends in popular  print and TV.  To my mind this shows the real bias in the news industry-not  a left-of-center political bias, but a strong tendency to substitute  &quot;human interest&quot; and entertainment for research and critical  reporting. What I was surprised to find was the lack of analysis explaining  why certain myths keep returning and why the public insists on believing  them.  Sure, there are capsule summaries after each story, but these mainly  consist of &quot;see my book xxxx for the story behind this myth&quot;.  I  could be a cynic and say this is a blatant attempt to sell more books;  however I think it is the annoying (to me anyway) practice of authors using  themselves as sources.  If I have to see &quot;book xxx&quot; to find out  about a legend, why should read this book in the first place?	2000-07-20
US	52522278	R12Z2T79MAL0IE	0750910593	846054825	Death by Design: The Fate of British Tank Crews in the Second World War	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Good information in a confusingly edited book	This book explores a little researched area of the Second World War:  armored fighting vehicle design.  The thesis in and of itself is nothing new to students of the conflict:  namely that British tanks were inferior  to their German opponents in armor (Quality and thickness), firepower (main  tank weapon, and fire control) and reliability.  What is new is the  perspective from a crewman and his contemporaries.  The narrative is a sad  story of official indifference and political infighting that cost  unnecessary lives during the fighting in the ETO.  Unfortunately, these  insights are somewhat clouded by a confusing and contradictory work.  For  example, the 75mm medium-velocity gun on the Sherman series is rightly  derided for its lack of penetrating power; however, later it is lauded for  its overall usefulness (due to the effective HE round it fired) without  reservations.  The reader is left to wonder, &quot;did crews think the  weapon was effective or didn't they&quot;?  The text is unclear on this  point and often repeats its assertions although they are reworded.  This  doesn't normally bother me in larger books, but in a work of only 200+  pages it shows some inattentive editing. The author's opinions of the  British leadership in the armored branch at this time, that very few  understood armored warfare, are impassioned and validated by other research  and make interesting reading. If you are a serious student of WW2 armored  warfare you will find some value here.  A general interest reader may wish  to wait for another edition.	2000-07-19
US	52522278	R34GUOFVRW5W7V	0486259285	91805765	The Mummy: A Handbook of Egyptian Funerary Archaelogy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Tough Going....but worth it	This handbook is a good reference to keep on one's desk about ancient Egypt.  Good overview of hieroglyphics, funeral practices and the fundamental tenets of Egyptian religion.  Be warned that is not a  &quot;popular&quot; history; it's clearly aimed at the graduate  student/professional level.  That being said, the book could definitely use  a new edition-the one I have says first edition 1893 second edition 1925.  The prose reflects this as well:  long passages in Greek and French,  indicative of British scholastic writing at this time.  I'm thinking  there's an excellent project here for a doctoral candidate- a new edition  reflecting scholarship from the last 75 years, along with appropriate  translations (original texts could be appendices so the pedantic can  perform their own translations).  All in all, the results are worth the  reader's effort.	2000-07-17
US	52522278	R38XLOVSJJM0LW	0195123328	344735750	Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Reference	This book is a single-volume encyclopedia of the Roman Empire from Rome's traditional founding in 753 BC until the &quot;fall&quot; of Rome and the Western Empire in 500 AD. Chapters on the military, government, private life, and literature are comprehensive and very readable. There's even an excellent overview of the Latin Language as well as a list of common abbreviations used on inscriptions and statuary. Equally important, after each section there are recommended books and articles for further reading. Whether you have a serious interest in Roman history, or even if the movie &quot;Gladiator&quot; sparked an interest in reading about Rome and its Imperium, this book will be invaluable to you.	2000-07-17
US	52522278	R3JUEF9T0RSQ	1570425116	70276169	Lost Civilizations: Pompeii	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Great Production needs more depth	This one was tough to rate.  The audiobook has excellent production values; Blair Brown and David McCallum turn in their usual superb performances.  A well written script clearly describes the immediacy and  poignantcy of the disaster.  But still, I would have liked at least another  tape's worth of details about Pompeii/Herculaneum and what archaeologists  have been able to piece together about Roman life in the first century  AD/CE.  Also some allusion to the controversy in archaeological circles  about conservation of the sites vs tourism might be in order.  Given this  is an audio version of a Time/Life book that's probably too much to ask. I  think that 5 stars for the cast and production and 3 stars for content is  about right.	2000-07-10
US	52522278	RRQOYNZHB0BAE	0922233217	33082279	Mental Hygiene: Better Living Through Classroom Films 1945-1970	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Funny, but also a good ancedotal social history of the 50's	I have to confess:  I did not read this book because I'm interested in the social mores of the late 40's-50's.  I read it because of these shorts being shown on Mystery Science Theater 3000.  (Oh yeah, I also suffered  through some of these as a tail-end baby boomer.)  The author matches the  history of &quot;Mental Hygiene&quot; films and studios with the ongoing  social concerns of the time.  As you might guess this would be the 50's;  the golden age of educational shorts.  The underlying emphases on  conformity and consumption are well illustrated, but the counterculture  influence in the shorts of the late 60's/70's is criticized as well.  The  book also has &quot;plot&quot; summaries for many of the films mentioned as  examples in the narrative.  The downside for me was none of the educational  films done by Dr Frank Baxter are in the book.  His monotonal &quot;Roll  Five Bill&quot; and anthropomorphic manifestations of FUSION and  &quot;Hemo&quot; still haunt any kid from Utah in the early 70's...	2000-07-05
US	52522278	R37AP7NM3WNGOX	0850521130	789015173	A Spy's London: A Walk Book of 136 Sites in Central London Relating to Spies, Spycatchers & Subversives from More Than a Century of London'Ssecret H	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Both an Outstanding Guide and pretty good history	Mr Berkeley has accomplished what few guidebooks do well, in my opinion.  That is to combine the sights with a narrative tying them together.  Over 130 places are divided into short walking tours taking in most of London.   The narrative itself is authoritative and, just as important in a book like  this, entertaining.  If you have an interest in Intelligence/Special  Operations both during the World Wars and Cold War, and are looking for an  unusual tour to do yourself,this is a book to consider.   I probably ought  to mention that it is unlike traditional guidebooks in another sense as  well:  there are few recommendations on eating-certainly none on lodging.   But, another inexpensive guidebook should suffice to cover those areas. NB:   Although published in 1997, I used the book July and November 1999 and all  the sites I wanted to see are still there.	2000-06-07
US	52522278	R3SFEAE1OBLHKP	0967130204	103399322	Traveler Beware! An Undercover Cop's Guide to Avoiding: Pickpockets, Luggage Theft, and Travel Scams	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	No-nonsense Discussion of how to stay safe when travelling	When I opened the box and saw only 1 cassette I thought for a minute this was nothing more than an audio info-mercial to sell security items.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The single 90-minute tape packs a  wealth of information about personal and luggage security when traveling  domestically and overseas (of course it is slanted towards an American  audience).  I've traveled extensively in my career and as a part-time tour  guide in Europe and Russia.  I'm pretty savvy about maintaing situational  awareness, not being distracted etc.  If you also are an experienced  international traveller, you might know some of these hints as well; this  tape is great as a refresher.  If you don't travel often-well you  DEFINITELY need to acquire a copy lest you become a victim.   Highly  recommended, especially for someone who is an infrequent traveller.	2000-05-24
US	52522278	R3MA9W638JAMNT	0140146687	616918783	The Nuremberg Raid: 30-31 March 1944 (Penguin History)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	In depth snapshot of Bomber Command in 1944	Mr Middlebrook has done more with this book than chronicle what was arguably the costliest raid the RAF staged during WW2.  More importantly,  it's a look at the daily operations of RAF and German aircrews late in the  war.  The RAF had standardized their tactics, and the Luftwaffe switched  from a rigid to a fluid system of control for its nightfighters.  Excellent  first-person accounts illustrate the points the author makes throughout the  work.  <br />The original edition was published in the early '80s with a short  update concerning rumors that Ultra revealed the raid was compromised; to  protect this intelligence source the raid was allowed to proceed.  This  &quot;conspiracy theory&quot; is as untrue as the persistent myth that  Coventry was destroyed for the same reason.  In actuality there are a  myriad of reasons why a mission might be cancelled; it's extremely unlikely  that the Germans would have connected a cancellation of the Nuremberg Raid  with intelligence concerning their defenses.  <br />The only area where the  book is wanting is the chapter(s) concerning &quot;Butcher&quot; Harris.   Research since the book was written has shown that he was obsessively  committed to bombing cities-to the point of insubordination on several  occasions.  Anyone else would have, and should have, been fired.  The book  doesn't address any of these issues.   Contrary to what other reviewers  have said, the Bombing Offensive was not &quot;propaganda driven&quot;.   Bomber advocates such as Harris, as an extreme example, felt that the  sacrifice their crews were making would definitely shorten the war-maybe  even end it without the need of invasion.  Sadly, they held to these views  even when events were showing that the offensive was not causing the damage  expected, and a re-think of the entire bombing strategy was in order.   Highly Recommended.	2000-05-15
US	52522278	R8ADR1DJSYUSJ	1569750602	529647163	Secrets of Sexual Body Language	Books	5	29	33	N	Y	Psychology without the Psycho-babble	This book was written by a clinical psychologist.  However, unlike many other books of this type, there is no pop-psychology jargon or grating &quot;feel the love -let's sing Kumbaya&quot; tone either.  I got the  feeling reading this that it was originally a textbook for an undergrad  college class-no bad thing, the author clearly has taught this subject  before and knows how to communicate it.   This is NOT about manipulating  people or making someone become attracted to you who otherwise would not.   Instead, it's more of a decoder-ring intrepretation of visual cues people  make when looking at someone whom they find attractive (or not).  You  really can observe the behaviors the author discusses in any social  situation; it really does work.  Be warned though, that the blurb in the  Amazon writeup is a little misleading; the book does not laundrylist  gestures and meanings it's simply not laid out that way.  Worth getting if  you're single, or simply interested in people watching.	2000-05-11
US	52522278	R12FKXH1Y4ESJ4	0890097585	694662390	Hitler's Luftwaffe: A Pictorial History and Technical Encyclopedia of Hitler's Air Power in World War II	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Oustanding Historical Reference Volume	This work is an exhaustive study of the Luftwaffe's inventory from 1931 - 1945.  Naturally the famous are here: Ju87, Me109/110/262, Fw190, He111/162, but the obscure as well: the Bv40 Interceptor Glider(!), the asymmetric Bv141 observation aircraft, and the He100 fighter.  The entries  (with drawings or photographs) of these one-off variants and technological  near-misses make the volume worth owning.  Over 150 fixed-wing aircraft,  gliders and helicopters are combined with an excellent overview of the  Luftwaffe from creation to destruction.  Additionally, appendices contain  the Luftwaffe's chain of command, and a glossary of Luftwaffe-speak.<br />If  you are a student of WW2, and particularly the airwar, then you should  definitely try to pick up a copy.  Highly recommended.	2000-05-03
US	52522278	R3RXTST8NS5TKK	185532783X	464508307	Finnish Aces of World War 2 (Osprey Aircraft of the Aces No 23)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Overview of the Finnish AF in WW2	This book is one of the Osprey Aviation Series.  Osprey books are aimed at the model enthusiast and wargamer, with good photos, some color plates, and a concise overview of the subject.  This volume is an excellent addition to  the series.  Well writtend accounts of the air war in the Winter,  Continuation, and Lapland Wars are matched with the aces that flew in those  campaigns.  Appendices have the aces' scores sorted by aircraft flown, 1/72  scale line drawings, and thumbnail unit histories.  <br />All in all, this  book delivers exactly what it promises.  Since the book concerns itself  with aces, only the fighter arm is considered.  Almost no mention is made  of the recce, or bomber units in the Finnish AF at this time.  If you are a  modeler or wargamer and need details about aircraft camoflauge, uniforms,  or air battles, this book is recommended.	2000-05-01
US	52522278	RNFUVKGBW5ERC	0816615276	633601779	14: Mannerheim, Marshal of Finland (Nordic Series) (English and Swedish Edition)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Short, but still useful account of a Soldier/Statesman	Stig Jagerskiold does a an excellent job capturing the life of Mannerheim in an English version of his work previously written in Swedish and Finnish.  From his childhood, through his service as a Russian cavalry  officer, the author clearly documents his evolving sentiments toward his  country and her aspirations for independence.  Also, the experience he  gains in leadership under fire with Russian troops foreshadows his stellar  performance during the Winter and Continuation Wars.   After the First  World War, Mannerheim is asked to take command of the &quot;White&quot;  forces who, with German assistance, are battling the Finnish Communists and  their Russian Bolshevik allies.  His attitudes toward Germany are formed  here and again the author illustrates later how his impressions affected  his conduct when Finland and Germany were co-belligerents.  Mannerheim's  command during this period is somewhat controversial:  debate continues on  whether he knew, much less approved, of atrocities committed by White  forces.  The book unfortunately doesn't investigate these allegations as  deeply as it could have, and still maintained the focus of the work.   However, the chapters concerned with his leadership in the Winter and  Continuation Wars are well done, with examples of his command style clearly  written and contrasted with those of his staff.  The author rightly gives  equal weight to Mannerheim's political beliefs expounded when he became  President in 1944.  His insight into both the psyche of the Soviets and  their Western Allies was vital in concluding a surrender that left Finland  unoccupied.   As an introduction, or as a basis from which to conduct  further research this book is a superb resource.  Highly Recommended.	2000-04-13
US	52522278	R323ZQ6SL18KBE	0520213076	938664959	In the Footsteps of Alexander The Great: A Journey from Greece to Asia	Books	4	21	23	N	N	This is what history is about...	Michael Woods is a journalist and historian, who in past works has shown an aptitude in taking history out of the books and conveying rather pedantic research to the average person without insulting intelligence nor  overwhelming with a wealth of detail (something a lot of historians, this  one included, sometimes do).  He does another stellar job with this work.   Mr Woods example is one worth emulating for would-be historic tour guides.   History is NOT dates and names; it's people, geography and events.  By  literally following &quot;in the footsteps of Alexander the Great&quot; he  not only takes the viewer/reader to the actual sites of some of the most  famous places in western history-Mr Woods also gives Westerners a glimpse  of vibrant, ancient, and colorful societies in Syria, Iran, and  Afghanistan.  Places that the Western media usually stereotype as raving  Islamic lunatics.  These glimpses into societies where Alexander  (&quot;Iskander&quot;) is still a folk hero/devil, are fascinating, and  worth the price of the book/video alone.  The trip itself was historical  research in that it contributed answers to some of the mysteries regarding  Alexander's campaigns.  Mr Woods is also an excellent writer, the prose is  lively and reflects the author's enthusiasm for the subject. Is the work an  exhaustive, authoritative history?  Probably not and that's why I gave four  instead of five stars.  As another reviewer aptly put it don't use this as  your only source.  But, it is an excellent introduction and secondary  source to a man who literally changed western (and middle eastern)  civilization by the age of 33.  Highly recommended.	2000-03-02
US	52522278	R2LS1Y82W0XD0D	0844225134	610641279	The German Way : Aspects of Behavior, Attitudes, and Customs in the German-Speaking World	Books	5	85	88	N	Y	A must-have for travelers and business people	I lived in Germany for over three years.  My German acquaintances in general liked Americans; but they greatly disliked our cultural ignorance.  I also did part-time work as a tour guide and a portion of &quot;tour  guiding&quot; is to educate people on the culture, and saw the extent of  this ignorance first-hand.  While German/Austrian/Swiss society is in a  &quot;big picture&quot; sense similar to American, (guilt vs shame-based  culture, individuality vs collectivism) there are major differences in  personal and business relationships.  Anyone who really wants to know  Germany or succeed in business dealings with Germans ignores these  differences at their peril. This book does an outstanding job of clearly  explaining all aspects of German society from Government through economy,  consumerism, to social relationships.  It also spells out the contrasts  between German and American ways of thinking, and between German and  Austrian/Swiss world-views. Bottom line is if you want a better vacation  experience in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, a better business trip, or are  just interested in other cultures, get this book.	2000-03-02
US	52522278	R1Y0EIEYDTGBUK	080389368X	423041235	Daytrips Holland, Belgium, and Luxembourg (2nd Edition)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Excellent way to see a Western Europe that is undervisited	Daytrips has everything you need to be a do-it-yourself tourguide.  Trips are based on major cities in each country with estimated distances and times, so you can see what you want on your schedule.  Each trip has at  least one, and more often several, walking tours all of which begin at the  train station (or bus stop if the area doesn't have one).  The maps are  detailed and clear; although I would recommend stopping at the local  tourist information center and acquiring a map-locations for information  centers are always highlighted. Each tour has some historic background on  the area, places to visit and some dining suggestions.  As a previous  reviewer has noted, take prices and opening times with a grain of salt-they  can and do change.   I was a tour guide in this region (including Germany)  for three years, and this book was always in my backpack.  Without a doubt,  Luxembourg, Belgium, and rural Holland are under visited by tourists.   Luxembourg is probably the best-kept secret in Western Europe. The people  in Benelux are friendly, especially towards Americans, prices are not  outlandish and the scenery is excellent.  HIGHLY Recommended.	2000-01-11
US	52522278	R67P22Z6VA0IB	1853672807	678328388	Soviet Casualties and Combat Losses in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Good source data.  However...	This book edited by Col-Gen Krivosheev is an excellent example of the history we can expect as historians work through the voluminous Soviet/Russian (and E. German) archives.  In one volume we have  authoritative figures on losses due to all causes-not just combat.  Even  more interesting than the WW2, are the Korean and &quot;Assistance to Other  Countries&quot; sections.  I would point USAF historians to the losses  reported of aircraft and pilots during the Korean Conflict.  Having said  this, as other reviewers have commented on, there are some sections that  raise one's eyebrow.  For instance, on the chapter including the Winter War  we read, &quot;[Finnish]military airfields built with [German help] had  capacity for ten times more aircraft than were operated by the Finnish air  force&quot;-blatantly untrue.  Elsewhere: &quot;The Finnish Army had]  600,000 men including reserves, supported by approximately 900 guns...270  aircraft and 29 ships&quot;.  The real numbers are:  some 350,000 men fully  mobilized, 120 or so guns, 100 aircraft and 14(!) ships.   Finally, all  readers should keep in mind that the enormous sacrifice in lives and  material was partially self-inflicted due to poor leadership, and Stalin's  interference/paranoia.  Sustaining heavy casualties is certainly no  indicator of military excellence.  Which makes the Great Patriotic War even  more tragic for the Russian people.   Recommended for military historians.	1999-12-09
US	52522278	R34YLBKSM5LYF8	0879518502	673488793	Churchill and the Secret Service	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Groundbreaking work on Churchill	&quot;Churchill and Secret Service&quot; documents the life long connection between him and secret intelligence.  The author traces this back to Churchill's experience as a journalist in the Cuban revolt against  Spain.  His romantic nature, combined with the undisputed effectiveness of  the guerillas, instilled in him a faith in guerilla warfare and its  requirement of good intelligence. The book continues through Churchill's  association with &quot;room 40&quot; during WWI, and his continued receipt  of intelligence reports during the years &quot;in the wilderness&quot;.   Naturally the bulk of the work concerns itself with the Second World War,  the creation of SOE and the secret armies.   The author delves into the  &quot;special relationship&quot; between the UK and US and reveals in  detail the serious conflicts between SIS/SOE and the OSS-an area that often  does not receive much attention by historians.  Churchill's second term as  prime minister,and subsequent retirement conclude the work.  What it shows  is that Churchill, probably more than any other political leader,  understood the value and the dangers of secret intelligence, and knew how  to employ it (most of the time).  His experience provides excellent lessons  to those who collect or use strategic/operational  intelligence,&quot;intelligence was not an end in itself and did not belong  to those who produced it.&quot; Would that our current intelligence  structure followed this advice...	1999-11-22
US	52522278	R10U4S5QQLT6YI	0312182392	108635605	Digital Soldiers: The Evolution of High-Tech Weaponry and Tomorrow's Brave New Battlefeld	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Nothing New Here, and some misleading simplifications	Mr Dunnigan's book is a rehash of discussion that has been going around military circles since the end of the Gulf War.  In his striving to make a somewhat specialized subject more accessible, by an informal writing style,  he simplifies and generalizes issues.  Ironically, this is exactly what he  blames the &quot;media&quot; for.  Also, although the copyright date on my  copy is 1996, the manuscript seems to have been written a couple years  earlier. Two examples:  He endorses the Air Force decision to get rid of  its EF-111's (this decision was opposed by those in DoD who worked in  electronic warfare) since they were not as capable of jamming radars as the  Navy EA-6.  The more complicated reality is that there was a sofware and  hardware package designed to update the EF-111, but a decision by the then  Air Force Chief of Staff diverted the money to other projects.  Ergo, the  EF couldn't do the same job as the EA-6.  Almost at the same time, the  decision was made to retire all F-111's from service.  This would make the  EF logistically unsupportable.  Not quite the same story as Mr Dunnigan  gives us.  <br />Another example is a disparaging comment about the Iraqis  gaining considerable intelligence from &quot;all&quot; Coalition aircraft  not maintaing radio discipline.  What he doesn't bother to explain is that  US Air Force and Navy aircraft had (and have) both encrypted and anti-jam  radios.  HOWEVER, our coalition partners did not have the same capability,  that the Iraqis did exploit.  Again a simplification that doesn't give the  reader the full story.<br />The best part of the book is the conclusion  section where he puts forward some recommendations for the US military,  which is why I gave this book two stars.	1999-11-21
US	52522278	R23ZHCJ5XIV74J	0859551962	177657122	Finland at Peace and War 1918-1993	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding work of Finland's military history	Finland in Peace and War as its title may suggest, is a military history that describes the significant battles and conflicts of Finland from its Independence in 1917 through its UN missions in 1993.  Despite the part  Finland has played in conflicts in the 20th century, especially the Second  World War, English language studies of its military history are hard to  find.  Plenty of works exist on the Winter War, and one can find  biographies of Marshal Mannerheim, but discussions of the Continuation and  Lapland wars are either superficially addressed in &quot;Eastern  Front&quot; overviews or simply ignored.  The author does a superb job of  describing these important campaigns (as well as those above)linking them  to ongoing political developments with both the Allies and Germany.  It's  probably worth stating that this is a work of military history-readers  looking for a social or cultural history should look elsewhere; except as  far as the Winter War was a (maybe THE) pivotal event in Finnish history.   Every student of the Eastern Front should have this book in their library.	1999-11-15
US	52522278	RARM1NY4S083F	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	4	107	114	N	N	Best English-language study of Verdun	Until recently, I was a battlefield tour guide in Europe.  One of our most popular tours was to Verdun.  The best source in English we found for details of the battle was &quot;The Price of Glory&quot;.  Most  English-language histories concentrate, naturally, on British and Empire  contributions.  However, Verdun was a bloodier battle than the Somme (it  indirectly caused it), and was responsible for the change of mindset in  France and Germany about this conflict being over by Christmas.  Yet,  Verdun is known only generally by most English-speaking historians.  After  35 years this book is still &quot;the&quot; source for Verdun, and deserves  to be in every WW1 historian's library.  However, some of the author's  prejudices are apparent (note I am NOT a PC historian):  early on we read  that he &quot;dislikes Germans&quot;, and while French commanders are  almost invariably described as embodying the &quot;Gaullic  Temperament/Ideal&quot;, their German equivalents are &quot;beady-eyed,  low-browed&quot; brutes.  French colonial troops are also given this  patronizing treatment that is embarrassing to a reader in the late 1990's.   Finally, I found a preponderance of views from the French side, the German  perspective is slighted.  Perhaps in future editions, the stereotypes will  disappear, and more research on the Central Powers will balance this  excellent work.	1999-10-18
US	52522278	RKQSIN747WZM6	0934793654	527720557	A Soldier Under Three Flags: The Exploits of Special Forces' Captain Larry A. Thorne	Books	2	17	17	N	Y	Excellent topic for a Biography-Superficial Treatment	Soldier Under Three Flags relates the story of Larry Thorne (Lauri Torni) a Finnish soldier who emigrated to the US and had a distinguished career in Special Forces. One might imagine this would be a great subject for a biography but unfortunately, this book does not do justice to its subject. Thorne's Finnish military service is rife with inaccuracies, reflecting some poor research. For instance we read that during the Winter War, &quot;the Scandinavian midnight sun lowered Russian (sic) soldiers morale&quot;, and &quot;they disliked the forests...which they called the 'White Death' [Byelo Smert].&quot; Well, &quot;midnight sun&quot; refers to the almost continual sunlight during the SUMMER. No one who's been to Finland in the winter could possibly mistake the almost permanent darkness for the midnight sun. Also, &quot;Byelo Smert&quot; refers to the white uniforms of the SOLDIERS not the forest. Finally, the author is less than fully forthcoming in Torni's association with the Waffen SS.  He did attend training as the text describes, but he also fought in the Finnish SS battalion, which was part of the &quot;Nordland&quot; SS Division.  In describing Torni's subsequent SF career the author appears more comfortable with the subject matter. However, battles are discussed very generally, with no details on his combat leadership, and there are no stories by those who knew him best-his troops. At best we get variations on, &quot;he was a great soldier, and a great guy&quot; nothing more. Finally, the author needlessly complicates his narrative by referring to Thorne/Torni's by the pseudonyms he used as he changed his name throughout his life; confusing to say the least. As a cursory account of this fascinating character's life this book may be acceptable, but it's basic errors regarding the Winter and Continuation Wars make it suspect for any more than the most basic background.	1999-10-05
US	52522278	R2T6YE8EE5I19Z	0803894287	629889394	Daytrips Germany: 60 One Day Adventures With 68 Maps (5th Edition) (Daytrips Germany, 5th ed)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	THE Guide for those who like to go on their own	This book is an outstanding to see the Germany that most tourists don't.  I lived there for three years, and was a tour guide; this book was always in my backpack.  Each section has a quick history, at least one and usually  3 walking tours, plus suggestions on places to eat.  The walking tours  always start from the train station-in my opinion the best way to get  around Germany, so if you drive, simply park at the Bahnhof. The only  downside is these are Daytrips-very little on accomodation.  All in all, an  excellent resource-and I'm sure it has stolen some customers from me as  well.	1999-10-01
US	52522278	R3097HZJ04Q6DK	0934793654	527720557	A Soldier Under Three Flags: The Exploits of Special Forces' Captain Larry A. Thorne	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Fascinating Subject-Superficial Treatment	&quot;Soldier Under Three Flags&quot; attempts to portray the life of US Army Captain Larry Thorne (Lauri Torni). This man is a legend in both the Finnish and American armies; his exploits definitely deserve documentation. Unfortunately, this isn't it. The book is written in a, well, superficial style. Battle scenes on the Eastern Front that would be excellent vehicles to show Torni's maturing leadership and command style are only sketchily covered, and numerous inaccuracies detract from the subject at hand. For example, we read that due to the &quot;Scandinavian (Finland is not technically Scandinavia) midnight sun, dense forest&quot; etc the Russians suffered low morale during the Winter War. Well, I've been in Finland during the winter and there ain't NO sun at all. &quot;Midnight Sun&quot; actually refers to almost continous daylight during the summer. Also, the author can't get simple German phrases accurate:  &quot;zu Befehl&quot; does not mean &quot;at once&quot;-that word is &quot;sofort&quot;, it literally means, &quot;at (your) orders, and &quot;werewolf&quot; in German is simply &quot;werwolf&quot; not &quot;werwulf&quot;. When Captain Thorne emigrates to America, and joins Special Forces, the author seems to be on more comfortable ground, with better flow up to the end of the book. All in all, for a very generalized, and inaccurate in spots, accounting of a Finnish and American patriot, and combat leader this may suffice. The historian however, needs to look elsewhere.	1999-09-30
US	52522278	R305QIVTLA56UC	9993990795	221572203	Man Called Intrepid	Books	1	34	49	N	N	Historical fiction at best	&quot;Man called Intrepid&quot; purports to describe the Herculean efforts of Sir William Stephenson to single-handedly win WWII.  Here's just some of the things we are told he accomplished:  1- WWI ace with 26 victories  (actually 8 victories, and he did not knock Lothar von Richtofen out of the  war) 2-  Invented television (Bell Labs among others) 3- Encouraged  production of the Spitfire (even though he had no interest, financial or  otherwise, in Supermarine) 4- Instrumental in Allied jet engine development  (despite the fact his name appears in NO account of the jet engine) 5-  Developed a training camp for agents and was the go-between for Roosevelt  and Churchill (also not true) What he really did was to establish British  counterintelligence operations on this side of the Atlantic.  He also was a  key factor in the development of the OSS.  These accomplishments alone  would have made an interesting book.  However, there is so much  disinformation and outright falsehood, that his outstanding contributions  are overshadowed. This book has been discredited by several prominent WWII  historians, veterans of MI5/6 ; among others.  Don't waste your time or money.	1999-07-28
US	52522278	R34XA5SWJ1IYI2	0887409156	927287726	Panzertruppen: The Complete Guide to the Creation & Combat Employment of Germanys Tank Force  1933-1942 (Schiffer military history) (v. 1)	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Essential to any WWII historian	Both this volume and volume 2, are excellent sources of primary documentation.  Both use war diary, and after-action reports to describe tactics and weapons evolution.  As I said in a review of vol.2, by allowing  the crews and their platoon-battalion commanders to speak the book has an  immediacy that can't be duplicated in other works of the same subject.    The author assumes the reader has at least general familiarity with German  operations, and knowledge of German WWII military terms and ranks.   Probably not for a general interest reader.	1999-05-07
US	52522278	R24MBGYV3IA7R4	0764300806	777370391	Panzertruppen 2: The Complete Guide to the Creation & Combat Employment of Germany's Tank Force ¥ 1943-1945/Formations ¥ Organizations ¥ Tactics Combat Reports ¥ Unit Strengths ¥ Statistics	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Great Primary Source Material	This book uses after-action reports, and war diary entries to describe German armored operations.  The material has an immediacy that one just can't find in other, excellent, works of the same subject. As an example,  if you want to know what crews really thought of the Panther and Tiger, not  what post-war technical analyses say, this is the series for you.  You can  also follow the evolution of tactics as German and Allied tank and  anti-tank weapons evolve throughout the war. As a previous review said,  this series assumes a certain familiarity with German WWII military terms  and ranks-probably not for the general enthusiast.	1999-05-07
US	52522278	R2HIJBVUCJ3H5B	0521647010	856736907	A Short History of Finland	Books	4	43	43	N	Y	Finnish History in 170 (!) pages	This book delivers exactly what its title suggests, &quot;A Short History of Finland&quot;.  From the earliest prehistoric beginnings to the sea-change in Finnish foreign policy with its membership in the EU in '95,  this work outlines all significant events in Finnish history.  Contains  several appendices with Tsar Alexander's declaration, petition to the  Bolshevik government for independence, and the 1948 Treaty of Friendship  and Cooperation.  The second edition was completed by a different author,  but the revisions are seamless- the reader cannot detect any changes of  style or editing.  <br />I would have given this book 5-stars, except for what  I believe is an inordinate amount of paper given to the rise and  machinations of the left in Finnish politics.  Given the original author's  admitted interest in left-wing politics, this is probably unavoidable.   However, the space could have been better used to flesh out chapters on the  Russo-Finnish war, Continuation War and the involvement of the Soviets in  Finnish politics post-war.  For future editions, the author may wish to  include the 1947 peace treaty along with the 1948 treaty in the Appendices.   So maybe 4 1/2 is more accurate.<br />If you are a tourist or business person  who wants more history than is presented in the usual tour guide, or are a  student looking for background on aspects of Scandinavian history, get this  book.  Besides, you can probably finish it on the flight to Helsinki...	1999-04-22
