US	52520267	R38M2G1WC83E8A	0812218183	434141707	"In the Days of Serfdom" and Other Stories (Pine Street Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fine collection of some little-known stories	This collection consists of the 1863 novella \\"Polikoushka\\" (which the Maudes chose to translate as \\"In the Days of Serfdom\\") and the stories \\"A Prayer,\\" \\"Korney Vasilyev,\\" \\"Strawberries,\\" \\"Why?\\" and \\"God's Way and Man's,\\" each written in 1905 or 1906.  It might seem an odd choice to juxtapose works written over 40 years apart, especially since Tolstoy's great religious conversion--generally seen as the major dividing line in his writing career--took place around 1880, but there's actually more continuity here than one might expect.<br />\\"Polikoushka\\" deals with events surrounding the recruitment of troops from an estate into the army.  A member of a peasant family is chosen as the estate's last recruit instead of the title character, a domestic serf, but a tragedy that occurs to Polikoushka changes the course of things.  \\"A Prayer\\" is Tolstoy's brief attempt to come to terms with the tragedy of a child's death. \\"Korney Vasilyev\\" deals with a man who returns home to make amends many years after crippling his daughter and leaving his wife upon learning of his wife's adultery. \\"Strawberries\\" sets the idle chatter of liberal aristocrats against the simple life of the berry-gathering peasant children living near them. \\"Why?\\" tells the story of a Polish revolutionary who is sent to Siberia and of the woman who joins him there to marry him and some years later tries to escape with him. \\"God's Way and Man's\\" is about two imprisoned 1870's radicals, one of whom finds peace in Tolstoy's Sermon on the Mount-based version of Christianity shortly before his execution, and the other of whom is shattered to learn of the futility of his revolutionary pursuits.<br />All of these works show Tolstoy's impressive sensitivity toward his characters, and  we see much of his disillusionment with the artificial customs of Russian life, from the pointless meeting of the steward with the proprietress in \\"Polikoushka\\" to the absurd wording of the death sentence in \\"God's Way and Man's.\\"  \\"Polikoushka\\" is unusual among Tolstoy's pre-conversion work for focusing on peasants, which helps it seem at home among his later works.  As for the other five stories, although by the time he wrote them Tolstoy had come to believe that the only worthwhile purpose of art was to provide a clear moral and infect the audience with the spirit of brotherly love, these stories (especially the longer ones) are really more nuanced than that.  Just as Tolstoy had a hard time putting the values of Tolstoyism into practice in his personal life, it seems that in his art he couldn't help writing works more complex and interesting than what he believed to be appropriate (though he still certainly makes his message come through).<br />The back of the book claims that these stories are \\"now in paperback for the first time since their original publication,\\" which isn't really true: the Gordon Spence-translated \\"Divine and Human and Other Stories\\" contains three of the stories (there's also a Peter Sekirin-translated book called \\"Divine and Human\\" that contains all five of the 1905-06 stories from this volume, but that book seems to be available only in hardcover).  However, I'm not aware of any English-language book containing \\"Polikoushka,\\" which is a very good work and the highlight of this collection, so I would tend to recommend this volume over either of the others.<br />These stories don't quite reach the level of Tolstoy's very best short works (I have in mind \\"The Death of Ivan Ilich,\\" \\"The Kreutzer Sonata,\\" and \\"Master and Man\\"), but they're still quite good, so if you've liked some of his other short stories and novellas you should take a look at this volume.	2002-12-18
US	52520267	R3S73IA0BWP82J	0192815733	494549211	A Russian Gentleman (The World's Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An intimate look at old Russian provincial family life	In &quot;A Russian Gentleman&quot; (also known as &quot;A Family Chronicle,&quot; which is both a more accurate description of the work and a more accurate translation of the original title), Sergei Aksakov narrates a few episodes in his family's history from the time that his paternal grandfather Stepan decided to move to the Russian Empire's spacious southeastern provinces until the time of the 1791 birth of Sergei himself.  The chronicle is divided into five &quot;sketches&quot;: the first discusses the move east and calls upon a few anecdotes to introduce the very fiery-tempered but (we are assured) good-hearted character of Stepan; the second recounts the marriage of Stepan's beloved ward Parasha at the age of 15 to a brutal scoundrel and recalls Stepan's heroic rescue of Parasha from near death at her husband's hands; and the last three discuss the meeting, wedding, and early married years of Sergei's parents, especially emphasizing the difficulties both had in gaining acceptance by their respective in-laws. <br /> Aksakov refers to himself not as a novelist but as a &quot;chronicler of oral tradition,&quot; and the book very strongly retains that feel throughout, bringing us more intimately into the concerns and struggles within the family than an author who only had recourse to his or her imagination realistically could.  While most of the characters are fairly well-drawn, the two most memorable ones are Stepan and Aksakov's mother (named Marya in real life and Sofya in the book), the latter of whom shows a great deal of both familial devotion and intelligence without ever seeming to be unrealistically glorified. <br /> The portrayal of Stepan (the &quot;Russian Gentleman&quot; whom translator J.D. Duff chose to recast as the title character) seems a little more suspect, which is unsurprising since Stepan died when Sergei was five years old, so that Sergei had to rely almost exclusively on questionably-accurate oral accounts of Stepan's doings many years after the fact in order to get a sense of his character.  Throughout the work, pretty much all of Stepan's attributes are carried to at-times implausible extremes.  Early on, Aksakov portrays Stepan during his angry spells as nothing less than a madman who obliges his whole family to hide from him for days on end, but at the same time as a brilliant judge of character (which Sergei seems to extrapolate merely from the fact that Stepan was the only member of the household to disapprove of Parasha's husband and to approve of Sofya).  In the last sketch, Stepan doesn't even care whether his granddaughters live or die but dreams constantly of a grandson; while Stepan was surely eager to have his &quot;noble and ancient name&quot; carried on, one gets the sense that the picture painted in the book is more a reflection of the vanity of the author (who was Stepan's first grandson) than of Stepan's actual feelings (at least, one hopes so). <br /> All the same, part of the charm of oral tradition lies in the exaggeration that comes along with it, and the particular items which get exaggerated can tell us a good deal about the psychology of the storyteller and the values of the culture.  As such, A Russian Gentleman gives us an enjoyable and informative glimpse at life among the traditional middling gentry in Imperial Russia at a pivotal point in that country's history.	2000-10-21
US	52520267	R1QU2Q4CGPRJ69	0486283674	945601405	Ten "Lost" Plays	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Ten strong though little-known short plays	The ten plays in this collection (A Wife for a Life, Thirst, The Web, Warnings, Fog, Recklessness, Abortion, The Movie Man, Servitude, and The Sniper) were all written in the very earliest part of O'Neill's career, from 1913 to 1915, and were (and still are) all overshadowed by the numerous masterpieces O'Neill wrote beginning in 1920 with Beyond the Horizon.  In the years before he began writing, O'Neill spent a great deal of time at sea, attempted suicide, and then came down with tuberculosis and spent six months at a sanatarium, where he discovered the works of Strindberg and others and decided to become a playwright.  This is all reflected heavily in these plays: one of them deals with a consumptive character, three are set at sea, and a number of them end in suicides.  Also, two of them deal with marital infidelity among the wealthy, a topic that I don't think O'Neill ever returns to in his later works but which was a favorite subject of O'Neill's idol Strindberg (in particular, Recklessness relates the affair between a married woman and her servant, which should sound familiar to readers of &quot;Miss Julie.&quot;). <br /> All of the plays except the three-act work Servitude are only one act and under thirty pages long.  Presumably, O'Neill felt a lot more comfortable at this point in his career sticking to short treatments of matters that were close to him, and this appears to have been a good idea.  Pretty much all of the plays in this collection show definite signs of the powerful tragedy for which O'Neill is known, and, considering how short they are, many of them are quite moving and haunting.  While O'Neill had not yet reached his full maturity at this stage, he definitely was well-enough prepared to write very good one-act plays.  His later, longer and more demanding works are very justifiably more famous than these ones, but if you enjoy O'Neill's better-known plays, his earliest works provide a very good view of the development of his style and talents, and you will probably enjoy them as well.	2000-09-26
US	52520267	R22ZLZ1IOMIAF7	0679734503	755691955	Crime and Punishment: Pevear & Volokhonsky Translation (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	251	323	N	N	Great literature, mediocre philosophy	Crime and Punishment is quite possibly the most widely read 19th century Russian novel in the English-speaking world, and while I might say it's a tad overrated (for reasons discussed below), there are many good reasons for its exalted status.  In case you're not familiar with the story, it begins with the decision of an impoverished student, Raskolnikov, to rob and kill a pawnbroker, having justified his decision with the argument that her death will do the world more good than harm, both because she cheats her clients and because the money from the robbery will give him the start he needs to become a great man and ultimately benefit humanity.  The action of the novel is confined to the day of the murder and a few days following it, during which time, in addition to dealing with a murder investigation led by a clever and intriguing detective who suspects him, Raskolnikov spends time with his mother and sister, who have just come to visit, and with the tragic Marmeladov family, consisting of a drunken father, a consumptive mother, three young children, and an eighteen-year old girl who is forced into prostitution in order to support the family.  <br /> Dostoevsky is notoriously good at investigating the psychology of his characters, and from that standpoint his treatment of Raskolnikov is probably the best in all of his work.  While, as in many of his works, Dostoevsky includes a meek saint-figure (in this case Sonia, the prostitute mentioned above) through whose Christian love the other characters will hopefully be redeemed, Dostoevsky's most remarkable characters tend to be not the ones he idolizes but rather the &quot;devil's advocates&quot; with whom he disagrees, and Raskolnikov is probably the finest example of that.  There are lots of other interesting characters too, and the plot is fairly action-packed with many moving and haunting scenes (Katerina Marmeladov's final descent into consumptive madness especially comes to mind), making the novel a surprisinglyquick and enjoyable read considering its length and depth. <br /> Unfortunately, there seems to be a tendency among some readers of the novel to be interested in it exclusively for Raskolnikov's proto-Nietzschean philosophy of the &quot;Extraordinary Man&quot; who, like Napoleon and, or so he believes, Raskolnikov himself, has a duty to overstep the most basic bounds of morality in order to achieve a high end.  I say this is unfortunate for a couple of reasons: First, the majority of the action of the novel has nothing directly to do with the idea of the Extraordinary Man, so a reader who is concentrating exclusively on Dostoevsky's treatment of this idea will be missing out on the many other redeeming qualities of the book and will probably find most of the book a bit boring as a result.  Second, especially from a modern, post-Nietzschean, point of view, Dostoevsky's treatment of the Extraordinary Man doesn't strike me (especially after a second reading, by which time the novelty had worn off) as being especially interesting philosophy.  Granted, given that he was writing in 1866, it does seem somewhat impressive, but I'd have to say Nietzsche advocated the position better than Raskolnikov does, and I'm not sure how much enduring value there really is in this philosophical aspect of the novel.  There is, however, immense enduring value in both the characters and the action of Crime and Punishment, and that strikes me as clearly the best reason to read the book.  If you read Crime and Punishment in hopes of deriving as much as you can from the work, and not just in order to read arguments about a once-fashionable philosophical idea, I can't imagine that you'll disagree with myself and the vast number of others who regard this as one of the greatest works of world literature.	2000-09-24
US	52520267	R23DIMIM78BK9I	0822213931	2165549	A Touch of the Poet - Acting Edition	Books	4	24	24	N	N	A powerful, unjustly neglected play	A Touch of the Poet is the only completed work in what Eugene O'Neill  hoped to make into a nine-play cycle entitled &quot;A Tale of Possessors,  Self-dispossessed.&quot;  Set in 1828 near Boston, it centers around Con  Melody, an Irish immigrant who takes pride in having served with  distinction under Wellington in the war against Napoleon and who fancies  himself as a distinguished gentleman despite all evidence to the contrary.   He is married to Nora, who he in some ways detests due to her peasant birth  (Melody was born into a wealthy family, though it acquired that wealth  rather unethically), and his grown daughter Sara is in love with Simon  Harford, the son of a legitimately wealthy Yankee.  Despite being severely  in debt, Con insists on maintaining airs of gentlemanliness--he keeps a  horse solely for the purpose of showing off, and, on the day the play is  set, he throws a lavish party in celebration of the anniversary of his  moment of military glory--often at the expense of Nora and Sara. Despite  Con's airs, Harford's snobbish father sees him for what he is and objects  to Sara and Simon's impending marriage (an objection Simon would readily  defy).  This insult deeply offends Con, who storms off to Harford's house  intending to challenge him to a duel instead of staying out of Sara and  Simon's way as a caring father would. <br /> All three of the main characters  (Con, Nora, and Sara) are quite memorable--Con for his bizarre delusions of  grandeur, his insistence of living in his romaticized glorious past, and  his alternation of cruelty and contrition toward his family (to say nothing  of what happens to him at the end of the play, which I won't reveal); Nora  for her moving proud love for Con despite his reprehensible treatment of  her; and Sara for her impressive stands against her father and her devotion  to Simon.  There were times, though, when the characters demonstrated such  extreme behavior that I had a hard time suspending my disbelief, which is  the only reason I'm not giving the play five stars.  Con is very often  contrite for his behavior toward his family, which appears to have been  going on for decades, yet in all that time it doesn't seem to have occurred  to him that maybe he ought to modify or at least try to suppress his  hostility to Nora and Sara.  Sara, meanwhile, issues all sorts of  condemnations of how Con treats Nora, all of which he deserves, but one  would think that after a certain amount of time she would realize that  she's wasting her breath.  However, even if their actions are a bit  unbelievable at times, all three characters are developed quite movingly.   <br /> While all of the play was quite gripping, the last half of the final  act was for me at least as cathartic as anything else in the dozen or so  O'Neill plays I've read.  A Touch of the Poet, having been written around  the same time as The Iceman Cometh, Long Day's Journey, and A Moon for the  Misbegotten, tends to be overshadowed by those works, but it really is an  excellent play that deserves vastly more attention than it gets.	2000-09-15
US	52520267	R1GJTVXS419XGD	0573605149	53684650	Ah, Wilderness!: A Comedy of Recollection in Three Acts	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Charming comedy shows O'Neill's breadth	&quot;Ah, Wilderness!&quot; is the only comedy that Eugene O'Neill wrote  and as such stands out as quite different from most of his work. It is the  story of Richard Miller, a 17 year-old Swinburne- and Wilde-reading  intellectual pretty obviously based on O'Neill's memory of himself as an  adolescent.  Richard is in love with Muriel McComber, a neighbor girl, but  Muriel's father objects to the relationship and, after a heated exchange  between Mr. McComber and Richard's father Nat, Nat half-heartedly tells  Richard to stay away from Muriel, and Richard receives a note from Muriel  to the effect that the relationship is over.  Despondent, Richard lets his  older brother's friend talk him into going to a bar to meet a girl, where  Richard gets drunk and engages in some innocent flirtation with her, but  does not allow the girl (who unsurprisingly is a prostitute) to take him  upstairs.  Meanwhile, Richard's parents are worried sick about him and are  rather displeased when he comes home drunk, but upon realizing that he's  learned his lesson, they let him off fairly easily the next day, and  everything, including Richard's relationship with Muriel, works out well in  the end. <br /> This play really does have some funny moments (two that jump  to mind are the drunken ramblings of Richard's Uncle Sid at the dinner  table and the extremely awkward attempt by Nat to have a heart-to-heart  talk with his son about sex), and the fact that O'Neill was able to write  it reveals that he had a good deal more breadth as a playwright than one  might think.  It's a very charming portrait of a sort of simple small-town  life that was, as O'Neill himself expressed it, how O'Neill would have  liked his life to be.  Particularly Richard's parents, though they do a  couple of silly things for mild comedic effect, are fairly idealized in  their treatment of Richard himself--stern when they think his behavior  needs correcting but always understanding and supportive--leading one to  believe that O'Neill was to an extent trying to paint a picture of how he  wishes his parents had treated him (as opposed to how they did treat him,  as described a few years later in Long Day's Journey into Night).  In any  case, O'Neill showed with this play that he was just as adept at depicting  life in a happy family as he was at depicting more tragic situations, and  in doing so he provided posterity with a very entertaining comedy. <br />  Incidentally, in addition to this version, &quot;Ah, Wilderness!&quot; is  available, along with &quot;A Touch of the Poet,&quot; &quot;Hughie,&quot;  and &quot;A Moon for the Misbegotten,&quot; in the Modern Library  compilation &quot;The Later Plays of Eugene O'Neill&quot; (also sold by  Amazon).  That compilation is, at this writing, not much more expensive  than this single-play volume and it ships sooner, so if you're also   interested in one or more of the other plays in the Modern Library edition,  it's probably a better buy.	2000-09-13
US	52520267	R3BAZX28IY85MJ	0300046014	853845831	Long Day's Journey Into Night	Books	5	33	33	N	N	O'Neill at his best	Long Day's Journey into Night is the play in which Eugene O'Neill, as he  says in the dedication, had to &quot;face [his] dead at last&quot; by  writing about the tragic dysfunctions of James, Mary, Jamie, and Edmund  Tyrone, characters based respectively on O'Neill's father, mother, and  brother, and O'Neill himself.  It is set entirely at the O'Neill residence  and takes place over the course of the day on which the family doctor  confirms that 23 year-old Edmund has tuberculosis and must go to a  sanatorium.  There is relatively little action in the play aside from that;  most of the dialogue relates to the other members of the Tyrone family  facing the various problems that haunt them every day of their lives: Mary  is addicted to morphine; Jamie is an alcoholic and at 33 seems unlikely to  amount to anything; and James also has an alcohol problem but more  importantly is still bitter about his childhood, which was cut short when  he was obliged to go to work at a machine shop at the age of 10 because of  the departure of his father. <br /> The whole Tyrone family is in a state of  despair, and it's hard to think of an author better at capturing despair  than O'Neill (in no small part, one suspects, because he came of age in the  sort of environment depicted in this play).  O'Neill was certainly bitter  about his past, but, importantly, he doesn't lose perspective.  Although  the way the Tyrones treat each other ranges from neutral to downright  cruel, O'Neill does a splendid job of balancing this against the fact that  they all love each other deeply and feel very unnerved whenever they  realize that they're treating each other unfairly.  Despite all the  problems he faced as a young adult, O'Neill always viewed his family with a  good deal of love and reverence, and that comes through in the play.  As  Mary puts it, &quot;None of us can help the things life has done to us.   They're done before you realize it, and once they're done they make you do  other things until at last everything comes between you and what you'd like  to be, and you've lost your true self forever.&quot;  The tragedy of Long  Day's Journey into Night lies in the fact that these great individuals have  lost their true selves due to the various demons that haunt their lives.  <br /> Some of O'Neill's works could reasonably be criticized for featuring  relatively one-dimensional characters and formulaic plots.  In the case of  Long Day's Journey, though, because O'Neill was able to rely on his own  experiences, all four main characters are exceptionally deep and balanced,  and the plot is distinctly unpredictable.  Though I've very much enjoyed  all the O'Neill plays I've read, it seems that in Long Day's Journey he  finally put together all his talents and produced his crowning achievement.	2000-09-03
US	52520267	RH4BGQTPN9ZQX	0801495474	535179747	What Is to Be Done?	Books	4	43	48	N	N	Not artistically great, but strangely compelling	&quot;What is to be done?&quot; is the novel in which noted leftist critic  Nikolai Chernyshevsky outlined his vision of a future of economic  cooperation and women's rights.  Though it is remembered more for its  political message than its literary merit, a few words about its plot seem  in order.  We meet the main character, Vera Pavlovna, as she is about to be  betrothed to a man who, though there's nothing especially terrible about  him, she does not at all love.  She meets the enlightened Dmitri Lopukhov  and they fall in love, so, much to her parents' chagrin, they run off  together and get married.  After a few years of marriage, the  odd behavior  of Dmitri's close friend Alexander Kirsanov reveals to Dmitri that  Alexander loves Vera, and Dmitri correctly suspects that the feeling is  mutual, and that although Vera cares for Dmitri very much and appreciates  all he has done for her, her passion for him was a youthful indiscretion.   Ever sympathetic to his wife's interests, Dmitri contrives to get out of  the lovers' way, and Vera and Alexander are happily married for pretty much  all of the second half of the novel.  Meanwhile, Vera has founded a highly  successful sewing union, and Chernyshevsky uses this to preach the value of  worker ownership of businesses and also to illustrate women's potential for  industry outside the home.  <br /> Chernyshevsky admits at a number of points  in the work that he wasn't born to be a novelist, and it shows--especially  annoying were his inability to stay in the same verb tense and his periodic  silly asides to &quot;the sapient reader.&quot;  Still, I was pleasantly  surprised at how gripping I found the work; I was ever anxious to find out  what was going to happen to the characters next (partly because their  rather unorthodox views on marriage and other matters, especially given the  time period, were bound to keep me guessing), and that made the fairly long  novel go by a bit more enjoyably than I expected.  Someof Chernyshevsky's  views, and especially his prophecies for the future, seem a bit naive  nowadays (though in my edition, translated in 1886, the translators  gleefully note that Chernyshevsky predicted the invention of the electric  light), but given when he was writing (1863), it's easier to see how he  might fall into some of the traps that he did, and in fact the novel offers  a very interesting look at Russian socialist thought in its relatively  early years.  All in all, though the novel's not great, it's better than  it's generally given credit for, and if you're interested in the history of  leftist thought or Russian literature, it's a worthwhile read.	2000-09-01
US	52520267	RSAGFBL581U4S	0140440097	233842697	On the Eve (Classics)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	One of Turgenev's best love stories	On the Eve deals with the friendships and love affairs between a  twenty-year old provincial Russian woman named Elena and a number of men in  her social circle: the young artist Shubin; the intellectual Berzeniev;  and, ultimately, Berzeniev's friend, the Bulgarian revolutionary Insarov.   Though Berzeniev is in love with Elena, he introduces her to Insarov (who  Berzeniev describes as the only interesting man he's met at the  university), and Insarov and Elena rather quickly fall in love and secretly  marry.  Elena's parents, particularly her father, don't care much for the  impoverished foreigner that their daughter loves, especially since they've  recently found her a nice Russian man for a fiance.  Worse still, the start  of the Crimean War (&quot;on the eve&quot; of which the novel is set) will  force Elena to leave her parents and join Insarov in Bulgaria if she is to  stay with him. <br /> In addition to being an interesting love story in its  own right, On the Eve develops a couple of themes often seen elsewhere in  Turgenev's work (and also that of some other Russian authors around the  same time).  In the conflict between Elena and her parents, we see shades  of the generational conflict that Turgenev would develop very well two  years later in Fathers and Sons.  The fact that the only man who can  thoroughly win Elena's heart is a Bulgarian (as well as comment by  Berzeniev about Insarov mentioned above) reflects the aimlessness and  superfluity that so often shows up among Russian men in the literature of  this time period (e.g., Turgenev's Rudin).  While Shubin has his art and  Berzeniev his historical studies, Insarov is driven by a cause (the freedom  of the Bulgarian people) that is deeper than anything that Russian men were  pursuing at the time and accordingly makes him a more intriguing character.   <br /> The novel did read, for me at least, a little slowly at first, and I  found that some of the characters (Shubin in particular) weren't much more  than cliched archetypes when they could have been fleshed out a little  better.  However, On the Eve is definitely one of Turgenev's better works  and was all in all a worthwhile read.	2000-08-27
US	52520267	RMTNIQP65R7GG	0140440402	237769681	Oblomov (Classics)	Books	5	68	70	N	N	A fun and moving story of &quot;the Russian Hamlet&quot;	Oblomov was written just a couple of years before the abolition of serfdom  in Russia, a time when the landowners were still clinging to feudal ways of  making money but had been exposed to (and for the most part fascinated by)  more modern ways of living their upper-class lives.  The title character,  like many other landowners, has for some time lived in Petersburg, away  from his family estate, but unlike many others he finds himself very bored  with society life.  Instead, he prefers to remain in his bed, entertaining  a handful of guests, mulling over but never putting to paper a plan to  improve his estate, and, for him most pleasantly of all, daydreaming about  his simple and idyllic childhood in the country.  To any outside observer,  he is pathetic in this state, where he can't even finish writing a letter,  so his childhood friend Stolz tries to bring him out of his torpor.  Stolz  fails in persuading him that going to dinner parties and taking part in  high-society backstabbing is any better than lying in bed, but he does  manage to rouse him to some kind of action by introducing him to his friend  Olga.  Olga and Oblomov fall in love, with Olga dreaming of a  permanently-changed Oblomov and Oblomov dreaming of a future growing old  with Olga on Oblomov's family estate.  Meanwhile, circumstances force  Oblomov to move into a new apartment, where the landlady takes quite a  liking to him but the landlady's brother, along with one of Oblomov's  longtime houseguests, conspire to defraud Oblomov. This probably only  summarizes about half of the novel, but saying much more would probably  give away too much of the ending. <br /> Despite the unattractiveness of  Oblomov's preferred lifestyle, Goncharov manages to make Oblomov a very  lovable character.  The reader is brought into a fair amount of sympathy  with Oblomov's nostalgia for his childhood and his innocent hopes for a  peacefully happy future, and I for one was unable to blame Oblomov for  wanting to stay in bed rather than put up with all the artifices and  machinations of high society life.  All the love affairs in the novel are  mostly well put-together (though in the novel's final part Goncharov was a  bit too long-winded about some of the characters' emotions), and although  Oblomov receives by far the most attention, both Olga and Oblomov's servant  Zahar are well- (and in the latter case quite amusingly-) drawn  The main  qualm I had about this book prior to reading it was that the prospect of  spending 500 pages on a novel about a man who wants to do nothing but lie  by himself in bed sounded a bit boring, but that turned out to be unfounded  for a couple of reasons.  First, Stolz and Olga do manage to get him out of  bed and persuade him to take action on some fronts, even if his deeper  inclinations still show throughout.  Second, the first (150-page) part of  the novel, which Oblomov does spend entirely in bed, surprisingly turned  out for me to be the novel's most entertaining part.  <br /> There were some  minor technical problems with the work (in particular I thought some of the  changes of scene were quite awkward), but these did not take away at all  from my enjoyment of the book.  Oblomov is ultimately a tragic figure, and  his flaw of inaction is very much tied up with the archaic feudal system in  place in Russia at the time.  However, this does not prevent those of us  living 141 years in the future and many thousands of miles away from  sympathizing with him and having a great deal of fun as more and more about  this fascinating character is revealed.	2000-08-24
US	52520267	RC5ERBWJM03B7	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An excellent account of an intriguing theory in progress	The Elegant Universe is surely the best book written for the general  public about the current attempts at unifying all of physics under the  umbrella of string theory (and, more recently, M-theory).  After a brief  introduction, Greene spends four chapters discussing special relativity,  general relativity, and quantum mechanics and explaining, necessarily  loosely, how the latter two contradict each other in extreme environments  like black holes and the immediate aftermath of the big bang.  These  chapters, even more so than the rest of the book, are extremely accessible,  and I for one have not seen a better non-mathematical introduction to these  topics. <br /> The remaining ten chapters discuss string theory, in which the  contradictions between general relativity and quantum mechanics are settled  by regarding the elementary particles not as points but rather as strings  whose properties (e.g., mass, charge) are determined by how they vibrate.   In the latter chapters, Greene also introduces us to M-theory, an extension  of string theory which throws two- and higher-dimensional membranes into  the picture along with strings and serves to unify the five different types  of string theory that existed before 1995.  As Greene eloquently shows us,  there are a lot of very interesting things about the world according to  string theory--perhaps the two that jump most immediately to mind are the  properties of the six extra curled-up dimensions required for the theory  and the types of tearing and sewing-back-together that (as co-discovered by  Greene himself) the universe can undergo.  Greene's own involvement in the  development of string theory allows him to give us an interesting personal  view of some of the theory's discoveries, and also made it easier for him  to get candid interviews with the likes of Ed Witten, Cumrun Vafa, and many  other heavyweights in the field.  Especially near the end, this part of the  book is somewhat heavier reading than were the first few chapters, but  someone with a little bit of experience in undergraduate physics and/or a  good deal of concentration and patience ought to be able to follow it  pretty well, while most readers should still be able to get the basic  ideas.<br /> My main complaint about the book (and the main reason I'm only  giving it 4 stars) is that it really doesn't come through quite as much as  it should that string theory is still nothing more than a theory, with its  development still very much in progress.  Physicists don't seem to be  anywhere near a point where they even really know what the basic equations  of the theory are.  It does make a fair number of predictions, but most of  these won't be able to be tested experimentally in the foreseeable future.   If and when physicists are able to write down and solve the equations of  string theory (Greene doesn't attempt to speculate as to whether that's  likely to happen any time soon), the results will be compared with what we  already know, and if the results match up, it will be awfully hard to argue  against string theory.  But Greene seems to want to convey the discoveries  of string theory as already being established truths about the universe,  which seems to be pushing it a little bit. <br /> However, whether or not its  postulates are correct, string theory is extremely interesting--that's why  I enjoyed reading this book, and I suspect that, when push comes to shove,  that may be the biggest reason that string theorists devote their careers  to studying it.  50 years from now, physicists may regard the science  discussed in The Elegant Universe as an interesting historical diversion,  or they may regard it as the foundations of a theory of everything--in any  case, The Elegant Universe provides us with a lucid picture of the  development of a  fascinating branch of physics.	2000-08-24
US	52520267	R3L0XR8WG7NB6C	0486290859	741344431	Beyond the Horizon (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A brilliantly emotional tragedy	Beyond the Horizon was O'Neill's first major full-length play and its release is considered a significant turning point in the history of American theater.  Its main characters are two twentysomething brothers,  Rob and Andy, who have both spent their lives on the family farm and have  quite opposite dispositions: Andy is excruciatingly practical and hopes for  little more in life than to take over the farm and make it successful;  whereas Rob is something of a bookish dreamer who hopes to see what life is  like &quot;beyond the horizon.&quot;  He gets this opportunity when his  uncle invites him to come along on a three year trip to South America and  Asia, but the night before their departure, a woman with whom both Rob and  Andy are in love professes her love for Rob, causing Rob to stay behind to  marry her while Andy, unable to bear the idea of living alongside the new  couple, takes Rob's place on the trip.  The bulk of the play deals with the  long-term consequences of this one night in which the brothers ignored  their callings in life. <br /> As is often the case in O'Neill's plays, the  premise is fairly simple and unoriginal and the development of the plot is  relatively predictable, but the intensity with which the characters are  developed is excellent and truly memorable.  We see in Rob the same sort of  futile hope that O'Neill would develop so well some years later in The  Iceman Cometh, and the despair of the other characters is quite moving.    At times, the pathos in the play can almost be over-the-top (and I imagine  that in live performances this might be something that the actors have to  be all the more careful to avoid), but O'Neill manages to avoid going into  the realm of melodrama and create very real, touching characters. <br />  O'Neill would, of course, go on to write many other deeply emotional plays,  a number of which are still better known than this one.  Beyond the Horizon  shows us many of the talents for which O'Neill is now universally  recognized, and the almost-universal acclaim that it received upon its 1920  premiere seems equally apt today.	2000-07-19
US	52520267	R2YLQ02NZOH2D3	0811201201	15236437	Nikolai Gogol	Books	4	81	83	N	N	Could have been better, but it's awfully good	Perhaps regrettably obscured behind Nabokov's famous novels and even his Lectures on Russian Literature and his controversial work on Eugene Onegin lies this short critical biography of Nikolai Gogol.  The main thrust of  the book is to portray Gogol as a masterful, if troubled and inconsistent,  writer whose work is valuable not at all for its portrayal of Russia or for  any seeming advocacy of social change, but rather exclusively for its  artistic merit.  Nabokov takes us rather briskly through Gogol's youth and  his earlier works; provides detailed, quote-filled discussions of The  Inspector General and the first volume of Dead Souls; summarizes the last  ten years of Gogol's life, during which he attempted to write the second  volume of Dead Souls but saw his artistic creativity fading; and gives a  short exposition of Gogol's most famous short story, &quot;The  Overcoat.&quot;<br /> Nabokov's essays on The Inspector General, Dead Souls,  and &quot;The Overcoat&quot; are all quite illuminating and entertaining.  He escorts us through each work, discussing the numerous ways in which each  innovatively reflects Gogol's unique and charming quirks, and including,  with annotations, numerous passages (each translated by Nabokov himself)  which demonstrate Gogol's excellent prose.  His emphasis is not at all on  the plots of the works (which he only grudgingly included at the end of the  book at the request of his publisher) but rather on their style, which he  successfully shows to be a much more fundamental aspect of Gogol's works  than any satire that one may choose to read in to them.<br /> At times,  though, it seems that Nabokov gets a little too caught up in his own dogma.  Most critics nowadays would agree with Nabokov that Gogol was much more  important as an artist than as a social commentator, but it's pushing it  awfully far to say, as Nabokov does, that Dead Souls is no more  authentically a tale about Russia than Hamlet is authentically about  Denmark.Also, Nabokov confines almost all of his attention to just three  works, which put together, if memory serves, wouldn't come to much more  than 300 pages.  He dismisses Gogol's numerous Ukrainian tales (the last of  which were written when Gogol was 25; The Inspector General, by contrast,  was written at the ripe old age of 26) as &quot;juvenilia&quot; which are  emphatically not &quot;the real Gogol,&quot; and pays little more than lip  service to any of Gogol's other acclaimed short stories.  The one other  slightly irritating aspect of Nabokov's book that I can think of is that in  the long passages that he quotes he insists on interjecting his own  comments [in brackets] mid-sentence, thus ruining the flow of the prose  that he took the trouble of translating so very well.<br /> But these are all  minor quibbles, and I hope you won't let them discourage you.  Nabokov  makes his point very entertainingly and very well, and although it might  have been nice if he'd broadened his study to more of Gogol's work, his  discussions of Gogol's three most important works are really excellent.  Since it would be hard for me to think of a 20th-century author more suited  to writing about Gogol than Nabokov, I had high expectations for this book,  and I was not at all disappointed.	2000-07-14
US	52520267	R2UUZHO0Y1ZLAX	0375706151	352538088	The Collected Tales of Nikolai Gogol	Books	5	143	149	N	N	A splendid translation of a splendid author	This collection brings together almost all of Gogol's notable short stories, from his first surviving piece, St. John's Eve, to his last and most acclaimed short piece, The Overcoat.  The first seven stories come  from Gogol's earlier period (1830-1835) during which he set his tales in  the Ukraine, while the last six, written between 1835 and 1842, are all set  in Petersburg.  <br /> Critics still disagree to some extent over the quality  of Gogol's Ukrainian tales and the extent to which they reflect the  artistic vision found in his later, most famous pieces.  I would  acknowledge that there aren't any absolute masterpieces among these  stories, but the world he creates through the lot of them, with the  constant presence of the supernatural (probably best seen in &quot;The  Night Before Christmas&quot; and &quot;Viy&quot;) and a charming provincial  sense of humor (at its height in &quot;The Story of How Ivan Ivanovich  Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich&quot;), is really quite memorable.  Also,  it's very interesting to see how the simple country folk of the Ukrainian  tales evolve into the often equally naive clerks found in the Petersburg  tales, and how the demons and ghosts of Gogol's earlier pieces anticipate  the haunted portraits and phantoms of departed eternal titular councillors  that would later win Gogol lasting fame. <br /> It is, however, the Petersburg  tales that are really the centerpiece of the collection.  Though it would  be a mistake (one that has tempted many a socially-minded critic over the  years) to portray these stories as representing a profound sympathy on  Gogol's part for plight of the little man, Gogol uses humble copying  clerks, struggling artists, and their ilk to paint a wondrously alive  picture of the bustling imperial capital.    In each of the stories (among  which I should mention &quot;Nevsky Prospect&quot; and &quot;The  Portrait,&quot; neither of which appears in anthologies nearly as often as  it should), Gogol infusesthe experiences of a seemingly undistinguished  individual with something extraordinary, sometimes using the supernatural  and other times exploring the protagonist's dreams or his madness.  Though  Gogol's contemporaries (like Pushkin and Lermontov) were producing a number  of excellent works at the same time, those works tended to focus more  heavily on the privileged few, and, innovative though they were in various  ways, they were written somewhat more in the spirit of the works of foreign  authors like Byron and Scott.  In Gogol's Petersburg Tales we see Russian  masterpieces written for almost the first time in a relatively non-Western  European style about the masses who were not lucky enough to belong to the  high nobility, and these works (though Gogol surely had no intention of  things turning out this way) would go far to influence the social realism  developed by later Russian authors. <br /> Gogol's prose is known among  Russians for its beautiful lyricism, which sometimes fails to come through  in translation.  This translation is (unsurprisingly, given how widely  praised Pevear and Volokhonsky are) an exception to that; each of the four  stories in the volume that I had previously read in other translations  improved substantially under the influence of Pevear and Volokhonsky, and  throughout the volume I often marvelled at the elegance of the narrative.   The one complaint I might have about the collection is the omission of the  historical romance Taras Bulba, which is probably the best known of Gogol's  Ukrainian tales and is substantively different from any other story he  wrote.  However, since (at about 120 pages) it might better be described as  a novella that a short story, and since the volume is already slightly  Ukraine-heavy, it's understandable that Tara Bulba didn't make it in.   Other than that issue, I can't think of a single weakness in the  collection, and I highly recommend it to anyone with any interest in  Russian literature orin the development of the short story as an art form.	2000-07-14
US	52520267	R3MH63JEHZNFBX	0140446583	621459486	The Village of Stepanchikovo: And its Inhabitants: From the Notes of an Unknown (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A bit disappointing	The Village of Stepanchikovo (sometimes translated as &quot;The Friend of the Family&quot;), a comic novel by Dostoevsky, is set during the first two days of the visit of the narrator, Sergey, to the estate of his uncle,  Yegor Rostanev.  The affairs of the estate have largely been taken over by  Foma Fomich Opiskin, an arrogant pseudo-intellectual who has ingratiated  himself with Yegor's mother.  The main conflict of the novel, into which  Sergey finds himself embroiled, centers around the attempts of Foma's  mother and Yegor to marry Yegor off to a wealthy dimwit and drive out the  governess, whom they suspect of being the object of Yegor's affections.   <br /> The novel primarily emphasizes the characters of Yegor and Foma.  Yegor  is one of Dostoevsky's stock &quot;meek types&quot; (in the same vein as  Myshkin in The Idiot, Sonia in Crime and Punishment, and Alyosha in The  Brothers Karamazov) and is quick to be self-effacing and lie down in awe  before anyone even seeming to have more knowledge of the world than he.   This opens the door for Foma, who despite Yegor's status as head of the  household takes every opportunity to insult Yegor and impose his own  will--in an amusing example of his excesses, one Thursday he demands that  everyone in the household pretend that it is actually Wednesday.  Foma,  incidentally, is based partly on Nikolai Gogol, and as translator Ignat  Avsey's annotations show, many of Foma's statements were inspired by the  infamous Selected Passages from Correspondence with Friends, in which Gogol  exposed himself as a peasant-hating reactionary. <br /> Considering how short  it is (just under 200 pages), the plot of the work is fairly engaging, and  I certainly found it a pleasant read.  However, I was disappointed that,  despite its billing as Dostoevsky's longest comedic work, once I got past  the first couple chapters I really didn't find the novel particularly  funny.  Apparently Dostoevsky initially envisioned it as a play but made it  into a novel for financial reasons.  I can see how it might be more  entertaining as a play, as Foma and several other characters could be quite  humorous.  As it stands, since it's narrated by Sergey, who is  understandably indignant about the state of affairs at Stepanchikovo,  Foma's tyranny over the estate comes across as pathetic, not amusing.   Dostoevsky was of course a genius and remains my favorite author, but it  seems that in the genre of provincial comedy Gogol was his superior.  If  you're interested in something by Dostoevsky with a lighter tone than his  most famous works, I'd recommend The Gambler or Uncle's Dream over this  novel. <br /> All in all, The Village of Stepanchikovo is certainly not  boring, and Avsey does a very good job with the translation, introduction,  and notes, but unless you're really a fan either of Dostoevsky or of 19th  century Russian provincial novels, I frankly don't see much of a reason to  choose this particular work.	2000-07-14
US	52520267	R2TG5YZCQOKG93	0300080271	817008303	The Little Tragedies	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Four intriguing plays	The &quot;Little Tragedies&quot; are four thematically related one-act  plays which Pushkin wrote during his extremely productive stay on his  country estate in the fall of 1830.  The Miserly Knight is about the  conflicts between the title character and his profligate son, who have very  different but equally misguided visions of knightly honor.  Mozart and  Salieri portrays Salieri as a hardworking but uninspired student of music  driven to murder by his jealousy of Mozart's genius.  In The Stone Guest,  Don Juan attempts to conquer the heart of Dona Anna, who he has earlier  made a widow, but the title character, a statue of Dona Anna's deceased  husband, endeavors to thwart Don Juan's hopes.  Finally, A Feast During the  Plague is an adaptation of a scene from a now-obscure English play in which  a plague survivor struggles with the conflict between his sense of  community with the deceased (who include his wife and mother) and his  desire to live as happy a life as possible given the circumstances. <br /> The  approach of the plays is extremely interesting.  Each is very concise and  intense, focussing on the main character at a moment when he must make an  important choice, and in each case the choice the protagonist makes results  in one fashion or another in the destruction of at least a part of himself.   Though Pushkin didn't write all that much drama (if I'm not mistaken his  only other completed dramatic work is the considerably more orthodox Boris  Godunov) and for that matter seldom set his works outside of Russia (all  four of these plays are set in western Europe), he seems very much in his  element here, and while these pieces aren't particularly multifaceted, they  are sufficiently gripping that they really deserve more attention than they  tend to get.  In this edition (which appears to be the only edition in  print in English), translator Nancy Anderson provides a detailed critical  essay for each of the plays as well as a general introduction and a  discussion of translation issues, and I found each of her essays to be  strong and helpful.  It's unfortunate that the Little Tragedies had been  out-of-print until the release of this volume, and Anderson has done us a  substantial service by making these innovative and exciting plays available  again to the general English-speaking audience.	2000-07-09
US	52520267	R268WJTGT5K6F2	014044176X	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Classics)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Innovative, though sometimes dull	Mikhail Lermontov's novel A Hero of Our Time consists of five stories  centered around Grigory Pechorin, an ensign stationed in the Caucasus  (where Lermontov himself was twice exiled).  In the first story,  &quot;Bela,&quot; the narrator meets Pechorin's commanding officer, Maxim  Maximych, who tells the narrator about Pechorin's adventures with the  Circassian girl Bela, whom Pechorin acquired in exchange for stealing a  horse.  In the second story, &quot;Maxim Maximych,&quot; the narrator  records a disappointingly cold reunion between Maxim Maximych and Pechorin,  after which the narrator is left with Pechorin's journal and, some years  later, receives the news that Pechorin has died.  The last three sections  are all excerpts from Pechorin's journal: in &quot;Taman,&quot; Pechorin  gets mixed up with a mysterious family of smugglers; &quot;Princess  Mary&quot; deals with Pechorin's abortive romances with two women, most  notably with the Princess referred to in the title, a rivalry over whom  leads to a tragic end to Pechorin's friendship with a comrade.  Finally,  &quot;The Fatalist&quot; is an interesting though brief story in which  Pechorin mysteriously predicts the death of a lieutenant. <br /> The novel was  quite innovative for its time (1840) and had a substantial influence on  Russian literature for many years to come.  Pechorin may be the best  example of the &quot;superfluous men&quot; often found in 19th-century  Russian novels; Lermontov does a fine job of bringing us to understand the  depth of the disenchantment which prevents Pechorin from developing any  sincere and lasting attachments to other human beings and causes him to  interfere in the lives of others out of sheer boredom, often with tragic  consequences.  The non-chronological structure of the novel, though perhaps  a bit awkward, allows Lermontov to show Pechorin from three different  vantage points (the narrator's, Maxim Maximych's, and Pechorin's own) and  was definitely ahead of itstime. <br /> For all its virtues, the novel did  drag at times.  In part because of the unusual chronology, there were  occasions when I couldn't figure out what the purpose of some of the  passages was until quite a while after I had read them.  Also, some of the  musings on travel through the Caucasus were quite unnecessary and seemed a  bit boring; perhaps in the original Russian they allowed Lermontov to show  off his lyrical talents (he was, after all, first and foremost a poet), but  any substantial lyric quality that may have existed in the original gets  lost in the translation (I'm referring here to the Penguin Classics edition  translated by Foote; Nabokov's translation may be better in this regard,  but I tend to doubt it). <br /> In any case, although it does have its dull  moments, A Hero of Our Time is a milestone in Russian literature and should  be read by anyone with a substantial interest in the numerous authors  (Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Chekhov, and Blok among them) who were heavily  influenced by this short novel.	2000-07-09
US	52520267	R2OY1GJCUXBQLB	0192838997	160552858	Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	92	94	N	N	An excellent translation of an incomparable work	Eugene Onegin was Pushkin's favorite among all his works, and although it  seems to take a back seat to some of the great late-19th century Russian  novels among western readers, Russians themselves tend to prize it above  all other works of their country's literature.  In case you're not familiar  with the story, it deals mainly with two of the title character's ill-fated  relationships: one with his friend and neighbor Vladimir Lensky, which ends  tragically due to a very unnecessary rivalry over Olga Larin; and the other  with Olga's sister Tatyana, which never comes to fruition because Eugene  initially rejects her, only to fall in love with her later.  Interwoven  among all this, Pushkin himself periodically appears to invoke his muse or  to digress on such seemingly unrelated topics as his penchant for women's  feet.<br /> The work can't possibly be praised enough in a single review, and  I won't try to do so; suffice it to say that Eugene's provincial boredom,  Tatyana's passion, and Vladimir's poetic romanticism are all splendidly  drawn, and many of Pushkin's digressions have justly become proverbs in his  native land.  Presumably much of the reason that the novel doesn't receive  quite so much attention in the non-Russian speaking world is that, due to  its verse structure (it consists of 14-line stanzas in iambic tetrameter  with a consistent ababccddeffegg rhyme scheme), it's very hard to translate  while still retaining both the meaning and the delightfully spirited rhythm  of the original.  Vladimir Nabokov asserted very emphatically back in the  1960s that any faithful translation would have to almost completely  sacrifice the original's lyric quality, and Nabokov's translation is  notoriously dull, if extremely adherent to Pushkin's exact meaning.  Not  speaking Russian, I haven't read the original, nor have I read any other  translations than the one I'm reviewing, so I can't say for sure how it  compares, but I can say that Falen's translation is extremely good.  It  adheres, for all intents and purposes, exactly to Pushkin's meter, and does  so without any particularly awkward diction, resulting in an end-product  that must at least approach the beauty of the Russian version.  Some others  seem to agree with me: in the preface to his own recent (1999) translation  of Onegin, Douglas Hofstadter praises Falen's translation so highly that he  has to spend a section explaining why he bothered with a translation when  Falen had already done it so perfectly.  While most bilingual readers would  probably state that to call Falen's (or anybody else's) translation  &quot;perfect&quot; would be a stretch, it is still a delightful work, and  hopefully other English-speaking readers will acquire, as I have, a better  appreciation of the beauty of Pushkin's greatest work as a result of it.extremely good.  It  adheres, for all intents and purposes, exactly to Pushkin's meter, and does  so without any particularly awkward diction, resulting in an end-product  that must at least approach the beauty of the Russian version.  Some others  seem to agree with me: in the preface to his own recent (1999) translation  of Onegin, Douglas Hofstadter praises Falen's translation so highly that he  has to spend a section explaining why he bothered with a translation when  Falen had already done it so perfectly.  While most bilingual readers would  probably state that to call Falen's (or anybody else's) translation  &quot;perfect&quot; would be a stretch, it is still a delightful work, and  hopefully other English-speaking readers will acquire, as I have, a better  appreciation of the beauty of Pushkin's greatest work as a result of it.	2000-07-09
US	52520267	R3K2HYV0FHIBHF	0299160548	582293791	Reading Dostoevsky	Books	4	41	44	N	N	Good, but it left a bit to be desired	Terras' Reading Dostoevsky consists of seven essays dealing with Dostoevsky's work and an appendix about Dostoevsky in English translation.  The first essay is about Dostoevsky's work prior to his 1849 arrest for  sedition; this is followed by a very strong essay on psychology in  Dostoevsky's work which pays particular (but by no means exclusive)  attention to his work in the early-to-mid 1860s, and by one essay each on  Dostoevsky's five long novels (Crime and Punishment, The  Possessed/Demons/Devils, The Idiot, A Raw Youth/The Adolescent/An  Accidental Family, and The Brothers Karamazov) written between 1866 and  1880. <br /> All of the essays are fairly well-written and are accessible to  anyone who has casually read the long novels (on the other hand, I suppose  that if you haven't read the long novels, with the possible exception of A  Raw Youth, you'll probably be somewhat lost whenever something you haven't  read comes up).  Terras refrains from putting forth any especially daring  theses, instead taking us through each work in a thorugh but very concise  fashion and pointing out a number of subtleties that would tend to escape  the casual reader.  Each of the essays definitely enriched my understanding  of Dostoevsky.  However, I have to admit I expected a bit more than what  Terras offered.  Not including the appendix, bibliography, and index, the  book only comes to about 140 pages, which is hardly enough to do justice to  Dostoevsky; Terras uses each of those pages well, but when I came to the  end I felt like there should still be more.  Perhaps the editorial reviews  overpraise the book somewhat--in particular, contrary to some of the  reviews, Reading Dostoevsky neglects some of Dostoevsky's more noted works:  Notes From Underground gets only a couple of pages' worth of attention, and  I'm not sure The Gambler is even mentioned. <br /> That said, I definitely  enjoyed Terras' book, and I certainly came away from it with a deeper  understanding of Dostoevsky's long novels.	2000-07-07
US	52520267	R3E2KRXB4VT7IY	0375405496	138795096	Alexander Pushkin: The Collected Stories	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Terrific variety of stories from Russia's first great writer	This volume brings together pretty much all of Pushkin's notable prose  writings, with the exception of his narrative about the Journey to Arzum  during the Turkish campaign in the late 1820s.  Highlights of the  collection include The Queen of Spades, a fascinating psychological look at  a young man's efforts to extract a gambling secret from an 87-year old  woman; The Tales of Belkin, Pushkin's first completed prose tales, each of  which, in addition to being an interesting story with well- and  concisely-developed characters, mildly sends up contemporary literary  conventions; The Captain's Daughter, Pushkin's only novel-length prose  work, a historical romance set during the Pugachev rebellion; Dubrovskii,  an exciting unfinished story about a man who becomes a brigand after his  family is driven off his estate by a wealthy neighbor; The Blackamoor of  Peter the Great, an unfinished work about Pushkin's great-grandfather, an  Abyssinian who became a confidante of Peter I; and the History of Pugachev,  a nonfiction work about the famous rebellion against Catherine the Great.  <br /> Pushkin's prose was certainly heavily influenced by the literary world  in which he lived--especially in Dubrovskii and The Captain's Daughter we  constantly see the influence of the then-very-popular Lord Byron and Walter  Scott.  However, Pushkin seems to be aware of both the strengths and  weaknesses of contemporary literary fashion, and the fact that he doesn't  take it too seriously and strikes out on his own fairly often is surely a  big part of the reason he has proven to be vastly more enduring than the  likes of Scott.  His characters, though predictably drawn almost  exclusively from the landed gentry, are very well-developed considering the  brevity of his works (the longest, The Captain's Daughter, is only about  120 pages).  Some of his works, especially The Captain's Daughter and the  History of Pugachev, unfortunately do bear clear marks of censorship at the  hands of the archconservative Tsar Nicholas I, but this didn't prevent  Pushkin from producing interesting narratives. <br /> Pushkin is generally  better-known for his poetry than his prose; however, as one would expect,  his poetry is extremely difficult to translate.  Although much effort has  been spent on translating his poetry and some very good translations have  resulted, these inevitably will heavily reflect the art of the translator  and at least somewhat obscure the art of Pushkin himself.  This problem is  largely avoided with prose, a field in which Pushkin undeniably also  excelled.  As such, this volume, with its almost-exhaustive collection of  Pushkin's great prose works and a very strong introduction, is an excellent  choice for English-speaking readers interested in this great writer.	2000-07-07
US	52520267	R1XYE05AJ90937	0140444556	862645983	Netochka Nezvanova (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A mixed bag	Dostoevsky intended Netochka Nezvanova to be his first full-length novel, but his work on it was interrupted by his arrest for his involvement in a radical political group, and he never returned to the novel after he was  released from prison.  What he finished comes down to us as a fairly short  piece (about 170 pages) divided into three parts which vary considerably in  setting, style, and, I would say, quality.  <br /> At the start of the novel  we meet Netochka, the narrator, as a young impoverished child who strangely  can't remember anything that happened before she was nine.  The first part  centers primarily on Netochka's stepfather Efimov, a good but not great  violinist with delusions of grandeur who treats Netochka and her mother  poorly but whom Netochka still loves profoundly.  Eventually a famous  violin virtuoso comes to town, and after seeing him play and attempting to  imitate him, Efimov realizes that he can never measure up, and, exposed to  the absurdity of his pretensions, goes mad and shortly thereafter dies.   Meanwhile, Netochka's mother has killed herself, so Netochka is now an  orphan, and is adopted by a Prince who has heard of Efimov through a  friend.  Efimov is definitely one of Dostoevsky's more memorable  characters, and in the first part we see that Dostoevsky has extended  beyond the dreamy, slightly awkward style of most of his early works;  indeed, I would consider the first part of Netochka Nezvanova to be the  best piece that Dostoevsky wrote prior to his exile. <br /> Unfortunately, I  can't say that the next two parts quite measure up.  The second part, set  at the Prince's estate, revolves around Netochka and the Prince's daughter,  Katya, who is about the same age as Netochka.  While Katya initially finds  the orphan a little odd and teases her occasionally, Netochka is awestruck  by Katya from the start and can't be described as anything other than in  love with her.  Eventually, Netochka's feelings are reciprocated, and these  two 11-year old girls want to spend all of their time smothering each other  with kisses, but, understandably, the rest of the family is a bit weirded  out by the situation and accordingly separates the two, sending Netochka to  live with the Prince's older stepdaughter Anna.  I found that the placement  of this section after the tragic tale of Netochka's impoverished and  ill-fated parents made the problems Netochka has fitting in with the other  residents of the Prince's estate seem a bit trivial.  The love story  between the two children is certainly interesting, though not  extraordinarily well-done. <br /> The third part is a rather unoriginal soap  opera involving Anna, her husband, and a letter that Netochka discovers  from Anna's past.  Apparently Dostoevsky was trying to emulate George Sand,  and the result was this mediocre fragment.  I'd tend to say that the novel  is worth reading if only for the very well-done first part and the novelty  of the second part, but be prepared to be unimpressed at some points.	2000-06-26
US	52520267	R3GLWW08DHKBQT	0140445188	371229835	Uncle's Dream and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Four very good minor works	Uncle's Dream and Other Stories consists of four stories spread throughout Dostoevsky's career: A Weak Heart (1848), White Nights (1848), Uncle's Dream (1859), and The Meek Girl (1876; also translated as A Gentle Sprit,  The Meek One, and A Gentle Creature).  Uncle's Dream is the longest of the  works, at 130 pages; the others are all about 50 pages. <br /> A Weak Heart is  set around New Year's Day in St. Petersburg and deals with a clerk named  Vasya who has recently become engaged and, conflicted between his ecstasy  over his engagement and the pressure he feels due to an impending deadline,  drifts into madness.  Vasya is somewhat typical of a major type of  character from Dostoevsky's early period, namely that of the  &quot;dreamer&quot; who has difficulty handling relationships with the  outside world, and we also see in A Weak Heart Dostoevsky's interest in  madness, which he illustrated at about the same time in The Double.  If  you've read and liked The Double (and perhaps also Poor Folk) you'll  probably enjoy A Weak Heart (and vice versa), but I'd have to say The  Double is a better-developed work than this one.  <br /> White Nights also  bears clear stamps of Dostoevsky's early period.  It chronicles four nights  in which the nameless narrator meets a girl named Nastenka and falls in  love with her.  Both the narrator and Nastenka are extremely socially  isolated--Nastenka because of her overprotective grandmother and the  narrator because of his preference for a dream world.  Early on, I found  the narrator's discussion of his dreams to drag a little bit (though  Nastenka was apparenly quite moved by it) but after that point White Nights  was an extremely touching story and was probably Dostoevsky's best  exposition of his &quot;dreamer&quot; type.  <br /> Dostoevsky conceived the  comic novella Uncle's Dream during the compulsory military service that  followed his Siberian imprisonment, and by this time he had shed much of  his earlier style.  This particular work seems a bit unpopular with the  critics--translator David McDuff states in the introduction that The  Village of Stepanchikovo, of which Dostoevsky originally planned to make  Uncle's Dream a part, was a much better piece--but I found Uncle's Dream to  be very entertaining.  The &quot;Uncle&quot; of the title is Prince K., a  senile member of the high nobility to whom socialite Marya Moskaleva wishes  to marry her daughter Zina, expecting that he will promptly die, leaving  Zina a grand inheritance and the freedom to remarry whomever she wishes  while still living well.  Marya wines and dines the Prince and has little  difficulty in getting him to propose to Zina, but Mozglyakov, another of  Zina's suitors and a distant relative of the Prince, convinces him that his  proposal to Zina was nothing but a dream, and hilarity ensues.  The novella  is a very funny parody of provincial manners, and both Marya and the Prince  are amusing caricatures.  Granted, this isn't exactly high art, and it's a  very good thing that Dostoevsky didn't stick to comedy for his whole  career, but this particular piece works quite well and is an enjoyable  change of pace from Dostoevsky's more serious novels. <br /> The Meek Girl,  which Dostoevsky published in his serialized Diary of a Writer, is an  experimental work which attempts to capture the thoughts of a husband hours  after his wife kills herself by jumping out a window.  As he does quite  often throughout his oeuvre, Dostoevsky shows his talent for psychology  extremely well in this story; if I didn't know anything about the story  before reading it I would have been sure it was written in the 20th  century.  The one vague problem that I had with the work is that the wife's  motivations throughout the events discussed barely come through, but that's  not really a fair criticism: this is meant to be a portrait of the  husband's still-unorganized thoughts, and in fact if he had understood his  wife's motivations well enough to narrate them to us, she probably wouldn't  have killed herself.  In all of Dostoevsky's work I really can't think of  such a fine portrayal of despair as this one. <br /> If you've read this far,  you're probably a fan Dostoevsky's work, in which case I would definitely  recommend this collection.  Though his more famous novels deserve their  praise, these works contain a wide variety of the attributes that made  Dostoevsky such a great writer, and probably deserve more attention than  they get.	2000-06-26
US	52520267	R2UHM7Z6BE1ZQ4	0393316823	973190756	Climbing Mount Improbable	Books	3	41	65	N	N	Interesting, but unlikely to win new converts	Climbing Mount Improbable is another of Richard Dawkins' popularly-accessible defenses of Darwinism.  Dawkins discusses in detail the evolution of wings and eyes as well as the intriguing mutualistic  relationship between figs and the wasps that fertilize them, and these more  highly zoology-focused chapters are where he is at his best, which might be  expected considering that he is a zoologist.  He does an excellent job of  exposing us to the diversity of wings and eyes throughout the animal  kingdom and of using that diversity as an illustration of the power of  natural selection.  However, there are a number of weaknesses in the book  which prevent it from being the sort of airtight argument for Darwinism  that he seems to want it to be.  He spends a lot of time discussing  computer simulations of the evolution of things like spider webs and  insects which serve ostensibly to show that random mutation and natural  selection is enough to produce what we see in nature today.  But these  programs are inevitably gross oversimplifications of the matter (he seemed  quite proud to note that his insect-generating program used a total of 16,  count 'em, 16 genes) and their imitation of natural selection often  consists of nothing more than the user picking the specimens in a  generation which most resemble the ones which occur in the wild--this  obviously biases the whole process and makes it seem like whatever point it  is that he's trying to make with these programs (he doesn't make even that  very clear) he's arriving at it in part by circular reasoning. <br /> In  discussing the wing, the eye, and the fig, Dawkins purports to be taking  the most impressive adaptations in biology and showing that they've all  been reached by, as he puts it using the apt metaphor on which the book is  based, a gradual slope up Mount Improbable.  In the case of the eye, he  concentrates on the evolution of its shape and does a solid job at that.   However, it seems like the evolution ofphotocells with light-detecting  pigments and the development of the proper neural pathways to interpret  signals from the eye would be considerably more substantial achievements  than the eye simply attaining the shape it has today, and Dawkins leaves  these issues out.  Also, Dawkins never really gets around to addressing the  issue of how complicated protein molecules like hemoglobin could have come  into being through only random mutations and non-random natural selection,  an question which, as Dawkins himself mentions, a number of people have  some problems with. <br /> All in all, a lot of Dawkins' writing, especially  the final chapter on the fig, is quite fascinating and worth reading in its  own right.  However, as a defense of evolutionary theory, this book leaves  a lot of mighty large holes open and consequently seems unlikely to  convince the skeptics.	2000-06-17
US	52520267	R3N5GC3U0IO399	0844242373	602472116	Inspector General (Language - Russian) (Russian Edition)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good quick silly fun	The Inspector General is a short comedy parodying the rampant low-level corruption in Russian towns at the time the play was written (1836).  The officials of a small town, led by Chief of Police Anton Antonovich, are  petrified when they learn that a government inspector is being sent to  visit  undercover to make sure everything is running as it should.  Due to  their fear, they quickly conclude that Hlestakov, a badly-in-debt guest at  a local inn who is in reality just a 14th-rank clerk en route to his  father's house, is in fact that inspector.  Hilarity ensues, as the  officials fall all over themselves to show Hlestakov the town and convince  him that they are doing their jobs in a most upstanding manner, while  Hlestakov, though no genius, is wise enough to exploit the situation,  convincing the townfolk that he is an extremely important personage,  securing over a thousand roubles in &quot;loans,&quot; and becoming engaged  to Anton Antonovich's daughter and nearly seducing his wife.  After  Hlestakov leaves, a letter arrives to the effect that he wasn't really the  inspector, causing everyone in town to feel very silly, and the play ends.  <br /> Though both today and at the time he was alive some people have  insisted on setting Gogol up as a biting social critic, at least to me it  seems that in reality he was nothing more than a very funny author.  The  characters in The Inspector General (much like those in his novel Dead  Souls) are generally not much more than comic caricatures, so if you're  hoping for a lot of depth in that area you might wish to look elsewhere.  But there are a number of very funny moments in the play, and it's quite an  enjoyable story which had a good deal of influence on later writers.  At  just 72 pages, it's a quick read, so I would recommend it heartily.	2000-06-13
US	52520267	R3MV6J0HPGVHSU	0156005859	192226904	Who Gave Pinta to the Santa Maria?	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An interesting but limited discussion of tropical diseases	Robert Desowitz's Who gave Pinta to the Santa Maria? (published in other countries under the less silly title of &quot;Tropical Diseases&quot;) deals with the spread and treatment of a number of infectious diseases,  with emphasis primarily on yellow fever and malaria in North America.   The  book approaches its subject from a primarily historical standpoint--the  chapters are arranged in terms of chronology rather than by disease, and  the biological details of the diseases are only discussed to the extent  that they're necessary to understand what was happening historically. <br />  Desowitz's treatment of the subjects he chooses is generally very good.   His style is friendly and readable without particularly ever seeming to be  too drawn out, and as a nonspecialist I feel like I learned a fair amount  from the book.  It's also very interesting, and a bit disturbing, to read  Desowitz's speculations about what lies ahead for infectious diseases in  the new century.  However, the scope of the book is a little narrower than  I would have liked.  A number of diseases often viewed as  &quot;tropical&quot; in origin--cholera immediately comes to mind--are  mentioned only in passing.  Also, with the exception of a brief chapter  about England, it seems like the only times the book ventures outside the  U.S. and its territories (which included Cuba after the Spanish-American  War, where the transmission vectors for yellow fever were discovered) is to  discuss the efforts of the U.S.-based Rockefeller Foundation.  There are a  lot of places in the world where infectious diseases are still killing many  people, and a number of organizations not based in the U.S. that are  working tirelessly to do something about it--it seems like at least a  chapter devoted to this would have been in order. <br /> That said, Desowitz  does a fine job of charting yellow fever, malaria, and a few other diseases  (notably Chagas' disease) through American history, and both the stories he  tells and the historical facts he reveals are often very interesting.  At  the very least, Desowitz has convinced me that this is a subject that I  ought to read more about.	2000-06-10
US	52520267	R120L8W200I3A4	0140444564	247198618	The House of the Dead (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	28	31	N	N	A good story, but not Dostoevsky at his best	Dostoevsky's The House of the Dead is an account of life in a Siberian prison, drawing heavily from its author's own imprisonment for sedition.  The narrator is nominally serving time for murdering his wife out of  jealousy, but Dostoevsky makes very little effort to maintain the artifice  that the narrator is anyone other than himself, as the narrator even refers  to himself as a political prisoner on a couple of occasions.  The novel  consists mainly of a series of anecdotes relating such things as the  staging of a prison play, the memories of some convicts of the crimes that  landed them in prison, and the attempted escape of two of the prisoners,  all interspersed among observations of more day-to-day affairs like prison  food and corporal punishment.  <br /> A number of the stories are very  interesting, and overall Dostoevsky paints an impressive picture of prison  life as a whole.  Though it's clear that his experience in prison was a  brutal one, the reader never feels as though Dostoevsky is overplaying the  prisoners' suffering, which makes it seem all the more authentic.  However,  I'd have to say this sort of narrative doesn't really play into  Dostoevsky's overall strength as an author.  Dostoevsky's best works  generally have a strong and coherent (though in some cases somewhat  melodramatic) plot that develops more or less linearly throughout the  novel; The House of the Dead, on the other hand, is hardly more than a  series of related roughly-15-page short stories and so inevitably lacks the  suspense of much of Dostoevsky's other work.  For the same reason, none of  the characters get especially well developed--the reader is left with a lot  of interesting character sketches, none of which get fleshed out. <br /> As  such, it's sort of unfair to compare The House of the Dead with many of  Dostoevsky's best known works, since the format doesn't allow Dostoevsky to  show some of the strengths he shows elsewhere.  Taken in isolation, though,  it's a fine account of life in the Siberian prisons of the mid-19th  century, and it mixes the elements of a documentary with those of a novel  well enough to ultimately be a very interesting and enjoyable work.	2000-06-08
US	52520267	RKSMAXQG4KJW3	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A superb treatment of human inquiry	The Discoverers is a truly remarkable treatment of a selection of the individuals who at various points in history have enriched our understanding of the world by breaking free from pervasive orthodox  notions.  The work is divided into four smaller &quot;books&quot;: Time  deals with improvements in the calendar and clockmaking; The Earth and the  Seas deals with the evolution of our understanding of the large-scale  physical aspects of the planet from the ancient Greeks through the  &quot;Great Interruption&quot; in Europe when the achievements of the  Greeks were forgotten in favor of religious dogma and culminating in the  15th and 16th century Age of Exploration; Nature deals with astronomy  through Galileo, microscopy, medicine, taxonomy, and evolution; and Society  treats the development of printing and the rise of social science and ends  in a somewhat strangely-placed chapter about atomic theory and  electromagnetism. <br /> In his note to the reader at the book's outset,  Boorstin states that one of his chief goals was to allow the reader to  understand the intellectual context in which these discoverers lived, so  that we can see why it was that the orthodoxy had such a firm hold and thus  further appreciate the magnitude of the discoveries being dealt with.  I'd  have to say Boorstin succeeds wonderfully in doing this, and therein lies  the really great strength of the book.  Boorstin's liberal use of enjoyable  quotes from primary sources from the time periods he deals with helps us  understand where both the discoverers and their opponents are coming from  and also makes the book quite fun to read.  There were things in the book  that I already knew a good deal about, and others about which I knew quite  little, but because Boorstin's style is both novel and extremely readable,  I was able to maintain avid interest in his treatment of the subjects with  which I was familiar, but still was very easily able to follow the book in  my weaker spots.  This really is a rare balance, and Boorstin is to be  commended for maintaining it. <br /> It is of course impossible to compress  the entire history of human discovery into a 700-page book, so Boorstin  inevitably passes over a number of things.  Some pretty major areas of  inquiry (off the top of my head, genetics, pure mathematics, and sociology  come to mind) receive no substantial treatment.  Boorstin generally prefers  discussing the earliest trailblazers in a given field rather than those who  are most responsible for the full development of the field--as an example,  in cultural anthropology he devotes several pages each to Lewis Morgan and  James Tylor (respectively a sort of grandfather of the field and its  often-neglected founder), one paragraph to Franz Boas (the father of  American anthropology and one of the first anthropologists to be outspoken  on public policy issues), and scarcely a word to anyone else.  If memory  serves, the only discoverers who did much of their work in the 20th century  to merit even a full paragraph are Boas, Freud, and Keynes.  Also, The  Discoverers is fairly Eurocentric.  Although substantial amounts of  attention are paid to Chinese and Muslim discoverers, this attention  usually functions as a means of comparison on a fairly specific matter to  what was going on in Europe. Achievements in the non-European world only  seldom are examined in strictly their own context and for their own sake.  <br /> But any single book on such a wide subject will have to leave out a  great many deserving people, and the important thing is that Boorstin's  treatment of the people he chose to treat is really excellent.  It's not a  complete history, and I would certainly be interested in reading any books  of similar quality that deal with people Boorstin left out, but I have to  agree with Alistair Cooke's assessment that there's probably not another  person in this generation who could even attempt to write a volume at the  level of The Discoverers.	2000-06-02
US	52520267	R310CNUE2ENYWF	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A fun read, but somewhat flawed	The Professor and the Madman deals with the role of asylum inmate Dr. William Minor in the development of the Oxford English Dictionary, and with the relationship of Dr. Minor to James Murray, the OED's longtime editor.   The book's main strength, and also its primary emphasis, is its treatment  of Minor's downward psychological spiral, beginning with his traumatic  experience as a surgeon in the US Civil War, continuing through the murder  that landed him in the asylum, followed by his extremely productive years  as a volunteer researcher for the OED, and finally through his severe  sickness in his later years, when he no longer channeled his energies into  the OED and slipped even further into insanity in the absence of the  obsession that had linked him to the outside world.  The book deals with  many tangential matters as well, giving a brief but interesting history of  the dictionaries predating the OED and going into some detail regarding the  development of the OED itself and the lives of its primary editors, notably  Murray. <br /> Especially near the beginning of the book, I felt that  Winchester was going off on a few too many tangents, as though he thought  he needed filler to give the subject a book-length treatment; for example,  he spends nearly four pages discussing the definition of the word  &quot;protagonist,&quot; and, after telling us that in Shakespeare's time  there weren't any English dictionaries, proceeds to do nothing but restate  that fact for the next two or three pages.  His tangents are, admittedly,  written in a charming style, but they can be frustrating for those of us  who might like Winchester to simply get to the point.  Another thing that  disappointed me was that Winchester spent very little time speculating on  why it was that Minor chose to obsess himself with the OED, and why his  contributions tapered off around the turn of the century.  Of course Minor  was bored and had relatively few options because of his detainment in the  asylum, but clearly most people in his position found other things with  which to busy themselves.  The fact that both Minor and one of the other  greatest volunteer contributors to the OED, Fitzedward Hall, were Americans  with psychological problems is an interesting fact.  Considering that  Winchester was audacious enough to speculate that Minor's autopeotomy near  the end of his life may have been a result of his shame over romantic  feelings or possibly even acts involving the widow of the man he murdered,  it's disappointing that Winchester didn't spend much time considering the  much more central question of why the OED attracted Minor so. <br /> Despite  these weaknesses, The Professor and the Madman is an interesting book and  on the whole does a very good job dealing with Minor's schizophrenia.   Short and written in an engaging style, it's a quick read and was well  worth my time.	2000-05-20
US	52520267	R2VFF3H21SQFX7	0837182484	312416144	The Insulted and Injured	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A moving tale of suffering and forgiveness	It's really a shame that The Insulted and Injured is as hard to find as it is; though it's not on as grand a scale as most of Dostoevsky's better  known novels, it may be as touching as anything he wrote. Narrated by a  young author, Vanya, who has just released his first novel (which bears an  obvious resemblance to Dostoevsky's own first novel, Poor Folk, making me  wonder how much of the story might be autobiographical), it consists of two  gradually converging subplots.  One deals with Vanya's close friend and  former love object, Natasha, who has left her family to live with her new  lover, Alyosha.  Alyosha is the saintly but dimwitted son of Prince  Valkovsky, who hopes to gain financially by marrying Alyosha off to an  heiress, Katya.  Valkovsky's cruel machinations to break up Alyosha and  Natasha make him one of the most memorable &quot;predatory types&quot; (a  la Stavrogin in The Possessed) that Dostoevsky created.  The other branch  of the plot deals with the approximately 13-year old orphan Nellie, whom  Vanya saves from an abusive household by taking her into his apartment, and  whose deceased mother's story in some ways parallels that of Natasha.  It's  unusual to see a well-developed character as young as Nellie in a  Dostoevsky novel, but Nellie may be one of his most moving creations, and  she in particular shows the influence of Dickens (whom Dostoevsky is known  to have read during the Siberian exile near the end of which this novel was  conceived). <br /> The Insulted and Injured could justly be criticized for  melodrama, as the characters' behavior is a bit too extreme to be believed.   There's not even a hint of jealousy anywhere in the love quadrilateral  between Vanya, Natasha, Alyosha, and Katya, as none of them want anything  other than the happiness of their beloved--whether that happiness is with  someone else is utterly (and unrealistically) immaterial to them.  Also, at  the other end of the spectrum, Prince Valkovsky is rather implausibly evil,  especially toward his own son, who though not exactly brilliant has done  nothing to justify Valkovsky's cruelty. However, these extreme charcters  make the novel very emotionally involving and didn't realy bother me while  I was reading it, though of course your mileage may vary.<br /> One of the  most important themes throughout Dostoevsky's work is the expiative value  of suffering, and The Insulted and Injured, with its tragically moving plot  and characters, develops that theme splendidly.  At this writing,  unfortunately, Amazon lists it as unavailable; hopefully that will change  soon.   (Also, although at present the out-of-print search service isn't  offered for this translation, it is available for a translation under the  title &quot;The Insulted and Humiliated,&quot; so you might try searching  under that title.)	2000-05-20
US	52520267	R3V7PBLSK24LL	0393009955	157450250	The Adolescent (Norton Paperback) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	41	41	N	N	It's all that, but no bag of chips	The Adolescent (also known as A Raw Youth) is the least well-known of the  five long novels written by Dostoevsky from 1866 to 1880.  Briefly, it  deals with a 19-year old illegitimate youth, Arkady Dolgoruky, who comes to   Petersburg to join his family, which he barely knows because he was  shipped  off to boarding school throughout his childhood.  In the brief  time during  which the action takes place, he becomes embroiled in the  intrigues  surrounding his family and its close acquaintances, culminating  in a  blackmail scandal surrounding a letter which the young widow Katerina   Akhmakov (with whom both Arkady and his father Andrei Versilov are in  love)  had written a couple years earlier which expresses her interest in  having  her wealthy, aging, and mildly senile father declared insane--she  is  expected to be disinherited if her father finds out about the letter.  <br /> The greatest strength of the novel, to my mind, lies in its intriguing   characters.  In particular, both Arkady and Versilov are rather deeply   probed, and instead of hastily fitting into certain types as can often be   seen in Dostoevsky's work, they both emerge as extremely complicated   individuals pulled by multiple conflicting forces, and their confusion   about themselves and the world around them is a superb reflection of the   confusing atmosphere that prevailed in Russia in the 1870s (and in Arkady's   case, also the confusion inevitable for a 19 year-old young man with no   strong roots).  In addition, the cast of female characters is probably as   strong and diverse as I've seen any of Dostoevsky's works (with the   possible exception of The Idiot), and the saintly old Makar (Arkady's   mother's husband and hence his legal father) is an excellent precursor to   Zosima from The Brothers Karamazov. <br /> The plot, though, leaves a bit to  be desired, and that's probably why The  Adolescent is less noted than its  sister novels.  Part of the problem, I  suppose, is that the fate of a  letter is not quite as interesting a thing  to center a novel around as  murder (as in Crime and Punishment and The  Brothers Karamazov), radical  political mayhem (as in The Possessed), or a  meek hero's Christian love  for humanity (as in The Idiot and, to an extent,  Karamazov again).  Also,  Dostoevsky inserts a few too many somewhat  implausible plot twists (in  particular, characters randomly run into each  other in the street so often  that you'd think Petersburg was no bigger than  a small village), and the  whole plot, especially the ending, is really  quite melodramatic.<br /> The  weak plot doesn't prevent The Adolescent from being a very engrossing   novel (and as an aside I might mention that translator Andrew MacAndrew's   introduction is the best introductory essay I've read to any of   Dostoevsky's works).  If you're a Dostoevsky fan, consider it required   reading; if you're not, you'll probably still enjoy it, but I'd say that   The Brothers Karamazov and The Idiot share most of its strengths and have   more to offer overall, so you should read those first.	2000-05-16
US	52520267	R2QM0MGHHSCJAA	0451523768	320431222	Notes from Underground; White Nights; The Dream of a Ridiculous Man; and: White Nights Dream Ridiculous Man and selections from The House of the Dead (Signet Classics)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Brilliant insights into psychology and philosophy	I've read Notes from Underground twice--once when I was fairly new to Dostoevsky and Russian literature in general, and once after reading many of his other novels and learning a bit about the intellectual and literary  climate of Russia in the 1860s from other sources as well.  Both times I  was deeply impressed, though for different reasons.  On the first reading,  Notes was simply a very moving, often disturbing psychological portrait of,  as is revealed in the first two sentences, a sick and spiteful man.  That  Dostoevsky could produce this work over 35 years before Freud's heyday was,  and still is, extremely impressive to me.  What I did not realize on the  first reading was the historical importance of the work. For some time,  some Russian liberals had been dreaming of creating a utopian state, and  more recently the increasing popularity of nihilism (and in particular the  critic Chernyshevsky) had led to hopes that the exact laws of human action  could be deduced and a rational utopia set up accordingly.  Dostoevsky's  underground man is a stinging condemnation of this idea, as his behavior  shows that individuals do not naturally act according to the best interests  of either society or themselves.  Though the novel's merits certainly stand  alone, it's worth reading a bit about the historical context in which it  was written in order to get a better idea of its impact. <br /> A few words  about the other works in this edition: Dostoevsky wrote White Nights while  in his 20s, before his Siberian exile and while he still held an interest  in the Utopian ideas he would later condemn.  It's a story of a young man  and a young woman, both socially isolated, who happen to meet one night  and, over the course of the next three nights, fall in love, with,  unsurprisingly, a maudlin ending.  The book dragged a bit at first, but I  found the second half of it very touching and, though a fairly immature  work, it was definitely worth my time. <br /> The Dream of aRidiculous Man  was the last short story Dostoevsky wrote, and contains a very clear  version of his notion of the necessity of suffering for love and  redemption, expressed through a man who dreams of travelling to another  planet identical to earth in which suffering doesn't exist.  It's not a  really great work, but it's a quick and pleasant read.  <br /> The volume also  contains three short excerpts from The House of the Dead (the book based on  Dostoevsky's imprisonment)--two of them dealing with prisoners' tales of  the murders that got them imprisoned, and one a discussion of corporal  punishment.  The excerpts are fairly interesting, but if this sort of thing  fascinates you you're better off getting the whole work, which is published  by Penguin Classics.	2000-05-08
US	52520267	R2O2PHSEB2ZSQV	0130047635	780629329	Algebra	Books	5	47	55	N	N	Exactly how an undergrad abstract algebra book should be	Pretty much any introductory abstract algebra book on the market does a perfectly competent job of introducing the basic definitions and proving the basic theorems that any math student has to know.  Artin's book is no  exception, and I find his writing style to be very appropriate for this  purpose.  What sets this book apart is its treatment of topics beyond the  basics--things like matrix groups and group representations.  I suppose  many introductory books shy away from much of the material on matrix groups  in Artin's book because it involves a little analysis (and likewise for the  section on Riemann surfaces in the chapter on field theory).  However,  Artin correctly realizes that a reasonably mathematically mature  student--even one who doesn't know much analysis--will be able to profit  from and enjoy the relatively informal treatments he gives these slightly  more advanced topics.  Of course these topics can also be found in  graduate-level texts, but I for one would much rather be introduced to them  via an example-based approach such as that in Artin than through the  diagram-chasing obscurantism in more advanced books.  I happened upon this  book a little late--in fact, only after I'd taken a semester of  graduate-level algebra and already felt like analysis was the path I wanted  to take--but I'm beginning to think I would have been more keen on going  into algebra if I'd first learned it from a book like this one.	2000-05-08
US	52520267	R2NPBMZWS1Z8M3	0486290816	742340053	The Gambler (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An engrossing, fun short work	The story behind the creation of The Gambler is well-known--due to heavy debt, Dostoevsky had less than four weeks to write a novel to avoid losing the rights to all his works, both past and future.  To make his task a bit  easier, he hired the star pupil of a stenography school (whom he later  married) to take dictation, and for the material of the novel he borrowed  heavily from his own life--he had experience as a compulsive gambler, and  he used his mistress Apollinariya Suslova as a model for the character  Polina.  <br /> The result was an inspired, though by necessity short, work of  art.  The passages set in the casino do an excellent job of capturing the  tortured fascination that gamblers have with the roulette wheel even for  readers, such as myself, who have avoided casinos all their lives.   However, The Gambler is not just about gambling--it features an intriguing  array of characters which are developed quite well in the mere 117 pages of  the novel.  &quot;Granny,&quot; for instance,  is probably just about the  most amusing character I've seen in Dostoevsky, and the entangled aims of  all the characters make for a very lively narrative.  It seems as though,  if he had the opportunity, Dostoevsky could have written a whole novel  about any one of them. <br /> Obviously, The Gambler lacks the depth and  brilliance of Dostoevsky's more famous long works, but if you're after a  quick, entertaining read, it's really an excellent choice.	2000-05-07
US	52520267	RM7DCLORA60Y6	0070542341	531951154	Real and Complex Analysis (Higher Mathematics Series)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Excellent, often intriguing treatment of the subject	The first part of this book is a very solid treatment of introductory graduate-level real analysis, covering measure theory, Banach and Hilbert spaces, and Fourier transforms.  The second half, equally strong but often  more innovative, is a detailed study of single-variable complex analysis,  starting with the most basic properties of analytic functions and  culminating with chapters on Hp spaces and holomorphic Fourier transforms.   What makes this book unique is Rudin's use of 20th-century real analysis in  his exposition of &quot;classical&quot; complex analysis; for example, he  uses the Hahn-Banach and Riesz Representation theorems in his proof of  Runge's theorem on approximation by rational functions.  At times, the  relationship circles back; for example, he combines work on zeroes of  holomorphic functions with measure theory to prove a generalization of the  Weierstrass approximation theorem which gives a simple necessary and  sufficient condition for a subset S of the natural numbers to have the  property that the span of {t^n:n in S} is dense in the space of continuous  functions on the interval.  All in all, in addition to being a very good  standard textbook, Real and Complex Analysis is at times a fascinating  journey through the relationships between the branches of analysis.	1999-06-26
US	52520267	R27MM6ABO38WL0	0867204710	178531043	The Way of Analysis	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Very readable, but not a good book for reference	Actually sitting down and reading a math textbook is seldom very inviting,  but The Way of Analysis is an exception to that--the exposition is very  good, and Strichartz goes far to ensure that his readers don't get lost in  a mass of formalism.  That said, this sometimes makes the text seem rather  disorganized, and definitions are only rarely set off from the text, making  it difficult to look back and find them.  As such, if you're looking for an  analysis book that you can keep on your bookshelf as a useful reference  after you're done learning the material, Rudin's text (or, better yet, if  your preparation is sufficient, Royden's) seems a better choice.	1998-08-13
