US	52527103	R1152RWDJKHNRF	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	2	1	3	N	N	yawn.	The only surprising aspect of this book is that anyone ever believed that CBS or any other media outlet was bias free. That is an impossibility. Every form of communication is developed from the perspective of the communicator and interpreted by the communicatee. So, of course, Dan Rather is biased -- but Fox News or Rush Limbaugh is not? The neocon right in America bathes themselves in self righteousness and self pity on this issue -- portraying themselves as victims -- in every way, the same victimization they revile in political correctness. This is the essence Goldberg's thesis, that somehow a form of absolute truth exists to which only they themselves are privy, and they seeth at the supposed distortion of this truth by the 'liberal' media. They point to issues that are given coverage, the way it is delivered as promoting some agenda. If the American public has really been so dumbed down it can no longer determine right from wrong, justice from injustice, truth from error, then the conspiracy would have to be much deeper than merely the major TV networks. But the truth of course is no such thing has happened. People judge issues given their own experience and beliefs, and the media does not create a mass of zombies marching in lockstep to the liberal drummer, it merely reflects society as it sees it. There is a wide spectrum of opinion available on any issue -- and those who limit themselves to one do so to their own ignorance. The fact that the reflection would be somehat different had it been developed in a Boise, Idaho than in New York City makes it no less or more valid. <br />Goldberg has written a book of trivial charges merely as an outlet for a grudging resentment of his lacklustre CBS career -- an institution which treated him with kindness despite his mediocre journalistic talents. (...)	2001-12-06
US	52527103	R2Y8HUMTY6I2YY	0865476187	497450136	The Geometry of Love: Space, Time, Mystery, and Meaning in an Ordinary Church	Books	5	23	25	N	N	geometry in architecture, history and faith	Sant'Agnese fuori le Mura Church stands just outside the old walled city of Rome, built, at its lowest levels, into the catacombs which surrounded the city. It is dedicated to a 4th Century Saint, a 12 year old slain for her refusal to marry the son of a Roman Prefect. Built in the 7th Century and continuously modified, it incorporates the layers of aesthetic, cultural, theological influences of the centuries, organically revealing Rome's tumultuous history. It is galvanized, though, by the reverence for this child martyr by its artisans. Visser's study is an exploration of the physical manifestation of the mysteries of faith. Like the church itself the book is more than the sum of its parts. The author searches for context and meaning, through the ecclesiastical history behind each of the church's major components--  nave, narthex, altar, tomb--. The author's descriptions convey the pageantry and the sometimes violent drama of the little church succinctly. Difficult to categorize, it is an in-depth look at  how the church's schema reflected the attitudes of its congregants. Visser presents a spiritual anthropology measured in the church's marble, masonry and frescoes. She synthesizes the form and symbolism of its architecture. The book is filled with anecdotes of the inspiration Sant'Agnese has had on the faithful, vividly exposing its human dimensions. This intensively researched, rigorously constructed book is a fascinating read, be your interest historical,  religious or artistic.	2001-04-03
US	52527103	R3ELQT2KAY3QQB	0809085313	68388589	The Selling of Free Trade: Nafta, Washington, and the Subversion of American Democracy	Books	5	19	20	N	N	sell out of nations	MacArthur begins his book from the venerable Swingline Staple Company of Queens, NY,  with profiles of employees, union activists, owners over the last 30 years. Not so long a period, but starting  at a time when a lattice of low technology manufacturing still ringed the great metropolis and bustled in the lower regions of Manhattan. They provided a modest but sustaining salary and a route to the ladders of American society for generations of immigrants. By the end of that period those societal understandings had given way to a much different order. Swingline  moved its operations to the dollar an hour wages and shanty towns of Nogales, Mexico, channeling back product to an American market they were no longer willing to support with their  payroll.<br />The author exposes the shell (or shill) game that took over the debate of North American Free Trade. Politicians as diverse as Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton cynically assured the electorate that open trade heralded an era of unequaled prosperity and opportunity,  propelled by such vacant aphorisms as the 'information economy' or the 'new realities' of global business. The agenda was marketed as 'inevitable'. The neoliberal lobby  managed to bamboozle a skeptical public and buy the political establishment. By 1994 this well financed machine had bribed or bullied its way to passage of NAFTA in all three countries. A full-scale reorganization of continental industry ensued, with an  attendant labour disenfranchisement, deindustrialization and currency sabotage. <br />The corrupt Salinas regime exemplified the motives of the Free Traders. Mexico's acceptance of their wealthy northern neighbors' largesse of 'investment' was extorted in part by their inability to pay the usurious loans of the IMF and foreign banks. NAFTA has since led to a collapsing peso and living standards that have dropped by a third. That has legions besieging the U.S. border. Free Trade, though, means anything but free movement of labour for impoverished Mexicans. Its profit equation hinges on a desperate, captive work force. <br />In some ways MacArthur's focus on the most ostentatious of Free Trade icons is the book's weakness. Mexico has, after all, no more than 4% of the American GDP. The workers of the maquiladoras are poorly educated and low skilled. It was only the most vulnerable,  politically expendable Canadian and American workers who would be sacrificed to NAFTA. Discarding this lynchpin, however, has profound implications to the soundness of any nation's overall socio- economic structure. <br />The more insidious aspects of the Free Trade movement comes from agreements mentioned only in passing in this book. The Tokyo and Uruguay  rounds of GATT, the WTO, a myriad of bilateral agreements, operating below public awareness, are devastating the high tech, high paying upper rung of industry-- steel, agriculture, chemicals, automotive, ship building, textiles, electronics, robotics. These processes sustain a sophisticated scientific infrastructure, critical to any economy that hopes to maintain its industrial integrity. They come easily under attack from countries who provide focused government direction, structural protection, subsidy, targeting the laissez-faire underbelly North American commerce. <br />The result is clear. Free Trade brings fragmenting  inequity, stagnation of incomes, a steady devolution of government services under the drumbeat of 'privatization' and 'deregulation', fragile bubble economies, erosion of industrial capacity. Multitudes are tossed into the dustbin of the new economy, joining the ranks of the working poor or no longer deemed countable even as unemployment statistics.  The media blithely proclaims all a success, the human detritus neatly excluded from recognition. This is the real legacy of politicians of all stripes who have sold out their countries to this juggernaut. The dissolution of the sovereign nation state promises a cult of government inertia, leaving the field to the most debased and predatory of commercial interests.	2001-02-13
US	52527103	R19SOLFN348Q6S	0816635390	538601483	Haunts of the Black Masseur: The Swimmer as Hero	Books	4	2	2	N	N	water as muse and temptress	Something primordial exists in swimming for those willing to recognize it, perhaps some residue of an ancestral species instinct to the sea, a subliminal memory of submergence in the amniotic sac, or the proffered suspension of temporal consciousness in its weightless rhythms. Sprawson explores this  allure in athletics and in literature.  Most central to his study are the Romantic poets obsession with swimming and water-- among them Goethe, Shelley, Swinburne, Pushkin, Poe and especially Byron who was a formidable marathon swimmer in his own right. <br />The Romantic ideal was closely associated with Classical notions of the body and nature, and its notion of hero was intertwined with this. Hellenism held a special thrall over the Romantic period. This was the impetus to Byron's swimming of the Hellespont, and to a tragic sub text to his and other lives as they were swept up in naive movements or misadventure (Byron died in a Greek rebellion against the Turks).  Swimming was seen as a dissent from the priggish, sanctimonious, imposed to something pure, original, regenerative through nature. <br />But there was an impulse to self annihilation as well. Some  were smashed on rocks, or gripped by undertows or had their health broken by cold water and over exertion. Fitness was not the prevailing motivation; swimming was muse, cave, judge. Its influence continued into the 20th Century, In Jack London's 'Martin Eden', John Cheever's  'the Swimmer&quot; or Yukio Mishima's seduction by Byron's hedonistic fantasies, it again cast down verdicts of elevation, dissolution and destruction. <br />I was drawn to this book by  an Australian broadcast on swimming during the Sydney Olympics, amongst which was excerpts from this book and an interview with Jon Konrads, the 1500 Meter Olympic Champion of 1960, who had returned to swimming in late middle age after decades of absence. In it he found a cerebral tonic, albeit at a much slower pace-- an invigoration, relaxation and something spiritually satisfying, even more so now than in his Olympic form. This is a worth while read for anyone interested in the sport and pastime. Even for the most pedestrian of lappers, it is an invitation to glide in eddies of imagination, sublimely cognizant of and refining the stroke, seeking some mysterious grace. There swimming provides an elixir of meditation and inspiration-- for those that it does not consume.	2001-01-09
US	52527103	R3CJM6X7SBZSQ	0811214133	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	5	3	3	N	N	remnants of shattered moons	Sebald's work commences with an intellectual detective story of discerning some sense of the remnants of one Thomas Browne, medical doctor, consisting of his skull, boxed away at a hospital and his esoteric meditations scribbled down some 200 years before. A death of a friend and a prolonged illness propelled the author into a south England sojourn in the dying summer, into a mind's maze. The architecture and the foliage he passes seem in state of dampness and decay. Cotswold's dilapidated estates and rotting gardens, built on colonial slave fortunes, are now presided over by the ghosts of extinct families. Portraits of violent and tragic history, relics of past glory and ambition are hung on their crumbling walls or buried in their churchyards. All is under a 'leaden sky', paraphrasing one his subjects--  Joseph Conrad's description of Marlowe's setting out from London in quest of the Company's renegade agent Kurtz, in 'Heart of Darkness'. This a journey through a sordid history of empire and of personal experience, through despondency and self discovery.<br /> It seems in part metaphysical, conducted in a disassociated state, as if by a wanderer from another planet, both amazing and disturbing in its findings. It explores the lesions and scabs of our society, through eccentrics and artifacts. This book is a success of both language and atmosphere.  It is sensual, deeply personal, but activated by an energetic, if pessimistic, curiosity. Translations often produce an opaque rind over the vernacular, but Michael Hulse  here seems to have transcended that barrier, transmitting all the  grey shadings and occasional sprigs of colour of the author's original German. If one searches for a cohesive theme in the book, one would probably be left frustrated. It plays out as flow of consciousness, but within a structure defined by the  longings and meanings projected into the landscapes of this strange odyssey. .	2001-01-02
US	52527103	R11Y8EOGST5ZCE	0374103828	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Wolfe on the rampage	Wolfe's unique position as the  resident elf of American letters has allowed him  the licence to expose the mountains of hypocrisy and hype that form the fabric of our modern and now 'post modern' society, with out ever having had to reveal a point of view of his own.  Most of his work is  presented with a raconteur's relish. It moves just  slightly outside and slightly behind the Next 'New' Thing, taking voyeuristic glee in adjudicating its pretensions and contradictions. The impression, though, is often that of a dilettante rather than a crusader, a writer with gifted perception but lacking a sense of mission. But in his older years he has come on a cause that he has approached with some passion. The state of the novel and his own contribution to it.<br />The centre piece  in these essays is the one dealing with his 'Three Stooges',  Norman Mailer, John Irving, John Updike. For this he has abandoned all of his trademark irony and journalistic distance. The scathing critiques by America's  literary elders on his last novel. 'A Man in Full' has left him on full counter attack.. That is  all the more magnetic because the claims on both sides are nothing less than the mantle of Dickens, Zola, Tolstoy, Twain and the future of the novel as  realism or aestheticism-- Wolfe's resonant social, morally definitive panorama or aestheticism's   metaphysics, ethereal 'exquisiteness' and subjective ethics. Of course this strain has its own  illustrious champions, Melville, Henry James, Proust, Joyce. His case is interesting, but inconclusive, as to why these two forms can't coexist. He is clearly sensitive to all the barbs from the literary 'aristocracy' and his essays are personal and at times bitter. Still, the spectacle of these over bred egos taking on one another in the media spotlight  must have been irresistible to Wolfe, even if he is one of the participants.  Surely he must be able to see a little of his own antiheroes Sherman McCoy and Charlie Croker, though, in all their puffed up self righteousness, in his own indignity.<br />The wide ranging social essays and a novella are braced by his articulate, robust language. One is left with the suspicion, however, that his carefully chosen representations cover issues that are much more complex and nuanced than he gives credit. Anecdotes of such self contained sophistry as post structural literary criticism or 'socio-biology' are easy to lampoon, but a deeper look at the eschatology of middle American culture is never attempted. Wolfe inserts himself as a traditionalist, but in an intellect that is really  much too sharp, flexible and transient to represent Middle America. The cast of characters would provide some colourful academic contrasts for any Park Avenue soiree, however. That is where Wolfe shines, as an intellectual vagabond, in an epoch  that is providing no end of entertaining subject matter.	2000-12-05
US	52527103	R30HAQ3GWCPQBI	0395899680	75616680	In Praise of Hard Industries: Why Manufacturing, Not the Information Economy, Is the key to Future Prosperity	Books	4	7	7	N	N	lament of the 'virtual' economy	Fingleton's illuminating and detailed study takes a practical and anecdotal look at some of the New Economy's accepted wisdoms. Are we really in a boom economy. Many residents of the First World  take that as a fact with little evidence from their personal lives. In many cases middle income families are working longer and harder to maintain their living standards. They work much harder than their parents but without the same job security and benefits. Big winners seem to be of windfall gains in a bloated and increasingly fragile stock market.<br />Nothing is more central to the vast expectations of the post industrial economy than those associated with software, telecommunications  or financial services, which form its bulwark.  Fingleton's analysis clearly shows that software is inherently transitory and unstable. Telecommunications is touted as a vehicle for a vast expansion of consumer markets, yet as became painfully clear in the dot.com collapse, there is little proof of that potential. Gambling and porn remain the internet's most profitable commodities. Financial services has devolved into deregulated boutiques speculating in exotic currency and equity instruments, in markets trading at unheard of multiples and expansion. All these 'industries' employ a specific type of intellect and skill set, which might apply to a highly educated 20% of the labour force. Nothing is reviled more than the old 'rust' belt industries in the free market ethos. Steel, ship building, textiles, that can offer capital intensive high technology enterprise integrated into well payed, labour intensive associated manufacturing are disappearing from the First World's economic arsenal.<br />The New Economy's extreme marginalization of certain employment sectors, its inequity in distribution of wealth, and its unpredictability, have only now started to bite into previously secure areas of the social demographic. No surprise then that social turbulence is starting in disparate protest movements. The divisions being created in our society ensures the haves will need to  use draconian measures to control the have nots, with an inevitable and equal reaction. Fingleton falls himself into the chimera of new age economics when his remedies call more for the much over rated effect of 'savings' as opposed to tariffs, progressive  tax systems and direct involvement of national governments in economic and currency management. However, this book is an accessible study of the effects of the globalization and de-industrialization in Western economies.  Post industrialism runs on the mumbo jumbo of futurists, buzz words, intentionally complex rationalizations. These  obfuscate its real intent and encourage public ignorance and apathy. The  book is a welcome, if limited,  contribution to cutting through the fog of claims to show how thread bare the cloth of the New World Order really is.	2000-11-01
US	52527103	R1XI9JJBMFW4B5	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	21st century Melville?	Disgrace  is not a book that can be grasped without some patience or reflection. It seems to have been written from some dark recess of the psyche, building up layers of meaning and symbolism. The narrative is a deceptively banal description of a personal crisis and drift in the life of a sybaritic professor. The dead calm at the surface, though, David Lurie's outward indifference to his disgrace, conceals a fierce undertow.  Lurie is presented as a character in manifest possesion of his own fate. Generation and decay, intimacy and alienation, passion and violence are thematic contradictions which thread through the story.  Coetzee sounds the romantic ideal of regeneration through nature, brilliantly personified by the spectre of Byron's mistress, Theresa. But this  is ultimately sabotaged by the protagonist's dark volition. The prospect of redemption courses around Lurie. He  recognizes it, considers it, then rejects it. He shuns lifelines, betrays all new trusts and systematically aggravates his humiliation. The momentum is to his own core, the real drama is played out on an internal pitch. Coetzee may  have given us a modern Ahab, whose turbulent  obsession is not a white whale, but his own soul. We watch Lurie's  world collapse around him, following an exhausted conceit to the deep. He becomes entranced with and submerged in its desolate potential.<br />Lurie is not irrational or maniacal. He is objective and moderate, albeit determined in his actions. The tangible expression of the turmoil is represented only in his growing isolation. His perceptions become increasingly abstract and disassociated. In progressive passages there is a sense of a storm gathering around him, which he challenges with ruthless indifference or reckless provocation. Disgrace then becomes, in one respect, a disturbing tale of a self annihilating hubris. Coetzee inverts moral reference points to purely subjective space within Lurie. All of the sex is habitual, compensatory, joyless. Haunting images inhabit the pages. The crippled, doomed animals, outlaw renegades, alienated, uncomprehending relationships project a lonely,  hellish wilderness, like a self inflicted prophesy. Coetzee immerses symbols of despair, and of hope, into his arid prose.<br />Hope?-- As with Moby Dick's  Ishmael, there is spiritual survivor of the conflagration. Lucy's fight for  life and persistence against all odds is in direct contrast to her father's wilful cynicism. Coetzee covertly, here, taps into primordial archetypes in literature. Time will tell if the book's mundane modernity, its minimalist phrasing and interior focus, provides a strong enough vehicle to carry it into the realm of classics. The language, though,  treads a precise line of evocation, just enough to activate the imagination. I found it, as affecting, if illusive, as any contemporary novel I have read.. Within its genre it may be almost flawless. A book's worth, in part, can be ascertained from the variety of ways it can interpreted. Disgrace cannot be limited to a single message or metaphor, but among many, is a riveting vision of common destiny in South Africa's snarled history.<br />-	2000-10-01
US	52527103	R132DITDZGF5C8	0684815656	713349149	Partisans: Marriage, Politics, and Betrayal among the New York Intellectuals	Books	4	7	7	N	N	urban, upwardly mobile revolutionaries	It's not initially evident how Laskin chose these particular authors. Wilson, McCarthy, Tate, Stafford, Woodburn, Arendt. The common thread seems to have been their alliance to the Partisan Review, but politics was never the  prime impetus in their lives. They might be best described as political arrivistes in a variety of left leaning shades. None of their work resorted, thankfully, to rigid polemics, and in later forms showed a decided skepticism of all dogma. They could not be described as a literary school, even with a vague commitment to a never fully articulated 'modernism'. These poets, novelists and social commentators had individual interests and styles, with no common overarching credo. Lowell's Catholicism somehow coexists with Wilson's avowed Marxism, with little tangible conflict. What you do find is a writer's clique, which at times seemed only an excuse to engage in an exuberant  circus of multiple marriages, affairs, heavy drinking and  bourgeois tastes. These are consummate social clubbers, actuated by a discriminating sense of membership. A club founded, no doubt, on prodigious writing talent, but seemingly searching more for the legitimacy of membership than an invigorating  intellectual culture.<br />The style of the book is gossipy but energetic. Its aspirations are more to the interplay of personalities than  the literary output. Laskin still manages a coherent critique of the major works, but his intent does not provide for much depth to the analysis. The times form an interesting period in American letters, still very much in the thrall of the late 19th Century romantic idealism, but in a society on the verge of massive social change, for better or worse. All aspired to stable marriage, but systematically destroyed relationships through petty cruelties and mutual infidelity. Laskin focuses primarily on the women and their relationships with their husbands or lovers. They desperately sought independent identities yet were inculcated with traditional ideas of roles. Their revolutionary zeal muted by conventional expectations. Simon De Beavoir's ground breaking treatise on feminism, The Second Sex, could still bring howls of derision and charges of flagrant denial of a natural order from them. They lamented shrillness and superficial icons of the bourgeoning women's movement. Unsurprisingly, this all produced a cynical edge in their writing. Laskin paints a vivid picture of the New York Literary scene of the 30's and 40's, arrogantly dismissive of American customs, and yet forever defined by the mores of the society against which they rebelled. It is not always a pretty picture, as a dimly perceived hypocrisy tinges their lives, along with the attendant profligacy, alcoholism, spousal abuse, and manic depression so seemingly entrenched in literary lifestyles.  The book, though,  is an insightful social looking glass, a page turner, and a good companion to his subject's writings.	2000-10-01
US	52527103	R2SW47NT2PWKQ6	067974049X	340888074	The Big Bang Never Happened: A Startling Refutation of the Dominant Theory of the Origin of the Universe	Books	5	35	42	N	N	the big dud?	The Big Bang has gained a reputation of invincibility. It has become in  the last 40 years a central pillar  of scientific orthodoxy. It is the  modern creation myth. The vehicle, however, is in constant need of shoring  up and bailing out as its original intuitive simplicity is stoved in.  Missing links, large and small, abound. Increasingly eccentric views of the  architecture are pronounced to compensate for rips and gaps in the sciences  needed to support it. New subatomic 'dimensions' are casually added, the  noetic ether of superstrings, to accommodate an evermore insubstantial  construct.<br /><br />Dark matter, dark energy, dark flow, undefined and unconstrained by understood natural properties, are imposed to compensate for disequilibriums that have developed in the standard model. Time has lost its contingency as to 'direction' or spatial  integrity. .  Structural beams such as the primacy of light speed are  tossed to notions of 'inflation' to account for the universe's 'lumpiness'.  Uncertainty, entropy and 'consciousness' form an occult ethos of blind  acceptance in respected scientific circles. All has become a magical  superstructure understood within a closely held cryptography. Lerner's  engaging critique is a colloquial history of the Big Bang, related to the  societal and scientific cultures that spawned it. He argues the  apprehension of the infinite universe, an anathema to the Big Bang, is  directly related to an era's technological vigour.<br /><br />The pervasive current  in modern cosmology is that of its growing alienation from observable  experiment. 'Experiments' conducted at the limits of conjectural horizons  can produce only attributed results. Every 'finding' or anomaly must be  insinuated into the grand master plan, geometrically complicating its  conceptual foundation. By necessity, then, the test of validity becomes  credulity, consonant with the scientist's rank in the priestly hierarchy,  rather than by scientific method. A spectral edifice is the result,  integrated into an understanding which relies on symbolic consistency  rather than physical verification. Lerner notes that forces of  electromagnetism and plasma physics  provide a much more accessible  explanation for the universe's large scale structure, using the pioneering  theories of Hannes Alfven's filamentary universe. This takes the altogether  reasonable route of explaining events of the past in terms of processes  visible today. These, however, are so much less portentous and profound  than a primal mythical singularity..<br /><br />It is difficult to come up with  one constructive industrial application that has been developed from  contemporary cosmology beyond those based on the state of atomic science as  at the end of Second World War. Its realms are now remote, exotic  mathematics, far too refined and theologically pleasing than to be  subjected to standards of empiricism or function. Unanchored by  technological  progress science loses its fundamental inspiration. One  harkens back to Oswald Spengler's 'Decline of The West', where he predicted  all sciences in late stage civilization would converge into number forms,  abandon their proofs and utilities, and manifest boundless belief systems.<br /><br />A vast academic bureaucracy, tenure, life works, Nobel prizes, research  grants are now totally invested in the Big Bang. The current drift in the  intellectual tides seems destined to continue along with public  fascination. Lerner's contribution is in reasserting a healthy skepticism  and proposing some realistic alternatives. Scientific paradigms have been  fiercely defended throughout history, but have also been subjected to  recurrent revolutions as their focus becomes more inward and aesthetic than  useful.	2000-08-08
US	52527103	R3QDMG99Z54A9M	0375409270	750514487	The Book of Revelation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	the mind's trap	I was quite prepared not to like this book, drawn to it to see what the 'cult' status of Rupert Thomson was all about. The premise of a man being  kidnaped by 3 bosom young women seemed the maudlin stuff of my adolescent  fantasies. The tone here, however,  is one of psychological suspense rather  than prurience. The kidnap sequence lasts only a few chapters. What follows  is an exploration of the trauma of sexual exploitation. Not only are the  roles reversed here, but the attitude of the victim is decidedly against  the grain of accepted convention. He seems strangely detached from his  ordeal, which certainly involved sensual pleasures, but also deeply   offensive and invasive circumstances. In the aftermath, he abandons his  previous lifestyle, girlfriend and seems to be semiconsciously  trying to  recreate the situations of his incarceration. He does not report the  incident, fearing the humiliating publicity, as most men would. He wanders  in a disassociated state, wildly but unsatisfyingly promiscuous. Thomson's  book is a haunting meditation of eros and abuse. It is a tale of  subjection, submission, seduction, dependence and obsession. It plumbs the  ambiguous nature of sexual relationships, the indistinct borders of  consent, societal predispositions as to what constitutes rape. The book has  a nightmarish alter ego to its blithe and breezy narration, as a festering  wound entangles the protagonist with denial, guilt and anger in an  explosive combination. This is  juxtaposed against a city that continues  undistracted, unaware of an event so devastating that the main character  has ceased to function as a contributing member. The author relates the  outward effects, leaving the reader to fathom the inward distress. The  climax comes when the need to reenter society and life, is confronted  forthright with the need to come to terms with his the scars of his  experience, in ruinous circumstances. Thompson uses an interesting  combination of first and thirdperson tenses to transmit his subject's  mental state. It is a book with an understanding of the condition of  suspended outrage, jammed by social mores which are far more hypocritical  about the equality of the sexes than understanding of the universal  response to victimization.	2000-08-07
US	52527103	R2TK7DEBXFCO6U	0385492529	282597222	Tides of War: A Novel of Alcibiades and the Peloponnesian War	Books	4	12	13	N	N	ambitions of war	The Peloponnesian Wars have an enduring intrigue, framing as they did the rise of the golden age in Greek arts, architecture, philosophy and science. The rivalry of Athens and Sparta lasted roughly 100 years, commencing in  490 BC with Athens's military consolidation in the  victory at Marathon and  ending in 404 BC with the defeat of its armada at Aegospotami.  It has come  to symbolize the competing agencies and ideals in warfare between nations  to this day. The first wars to emerge from the mists of mythology to  objective analysis and record, they were described  in written chronicles  by Herodotus and Thucydides. This heralded the transition from the oral,  mystical tradition of Homer's heroic poetry to the 'modern' era which  formed the bedrock of Greco Roman and then Western civilizations. Into this  galaxy of events came the pivotal figure of Alcibiades, who anchors  Pressfield's book.  He was a student and foil of Socrates in Plato's  dialogues, a military leader for Athens, Sparta and Persia; respectively  playing agent-provocateur against former allegiances. He lived for conquest  and to usurp the established order. Blessed with eloquence, bravery,  passion and overarching ambition, he stamped his imprint on history, as  much for self glorification as political necessity. <br />Pressfield's book is  expansive in scope rather than penetrating. The perspective is colloquial  and personal, which skirts the labyrinth of Athenian politics of the time.  He has, though, effectively used some of the techniques Thucydides employed  in presenting rhetorical argument to elucidate the underpinnings and  objectives of the wars, with a modern accessibility. The lush, descriptive  writing provides a sweep which tends to engulf the characters in the  current of events. Like an epic film, the characters are caught up in a  vast tide of conflict, at some cost to providing  shading and complexity.  Pressfield, however, has provided a reliable, gripping  account of the  saga. The story is told as a retelling of death row confession, by a  captain of marines and assassin of Alcibiades. This added  degree of  separation, leads to some unnecessary, but not overwhelming, confusion in  the narration. The author exhaustively presents the events, strategy as  well as the experiences &amp; attitudes of common soldiers. The battles of  Syracuse and Hellespont are told in tactical, gory detail. This is an  entertaining and informative novel, perhaps more in the 'escape' genre than  rigorous history or literature, but still providing an illuminating lens on  this seminal historical period.	2000-06-28
US	52527103	R3KPS6T1ZRRFHN	0140168125	146741920	Big Sur	Books	5	58	61	N	N	the down Beat	By 1962 alcohol had become the combustible propellent of Jack Kerouac's saturated imagination. Like matches to the wick, binges could last weeks. 'Big Sur' brings a much different narrator than the frenetic idealist of  'On The Road'. When that was published, years after it had been written, he  was touted as the bard of a new generation, a moniker he grew to deeply  resent. Popular culture soon trivialized the 'Beats' into a parody of bongo  drums and bad poetry. He became perceived by critics as a passing fad. A  wounded Kerouac, his attempts to be recognized as a serious writer in  disarray, hoped to dry out in a solitary retreat at Lawrence Ferlinghetti's cabin at Big Sur. It  would be his last genuine effort at sobriety, and this book would become  his last great novel.<br /><br />Much of the book was written in the afterglow of  hangovers, or the buzz of the day's first drink. There is weariness here, a  sedated fatalism. His spirituality struggles with morbidity. Still,  Kerouac's  sensual, sensitive poetic prose might have reached its most  sublime character in 'Big Sur', even in its fevered sparks of delirium  tremens. It drifts, as Kerouac was drifting, in the disillusionment of the  post-Beat rancor, then swirls into eddies of luminous energy. The flow of  consciousness is viewed as if through a prism which gives experience a  subjective, surreal semblance of order. It seems so tantalizingly close to  grasping some illusive meaning, that talisman Kerouac had followed through  friendships, terrestrial and spiritual wandering, hardscrabble existence,  inebriation, all his life.<br /><br />There is a little quip at the start of the  book about the copyright problems he was having with previous publishers,  regarding the use of the various names he had attributed to the pantheon of  his 'beatnik' friends. The group who became the century's most legendary  collection of literary iconoclasts. He describes all of his books as a  single Proustian comedy of ragingaction, folly, sweetness.  He whimsies  spending his old age reinserting a consistent nomenclature. Of course, the  old age would never be. A coherent structure, though, might have robbed the  books of their intrinsic spontaneity, the root of their innocence. With all  this, there is still a persistent, if subdued, cadence (a beat!) and a wry,  if exhausted, humour. Lament or comedy, the roaring storm of On The Road,  came crashing ashore at Big Sur, leaving the author a crumpled wreck on the  beach. But from these bookends you can glean Kerouac's exhilarating, sad  odyssey.  'Big Sur' is its most wrenchingly personal and expressive  chapter.	2000-06-16
US	52527103	RKYGGZ1XXAOS0	067940256X	566124428	Rembrandt's Eyes	Books	5	20	24	N	N	luminescent portrait of the artist and the age	1629 --  the 60th year of the war for the Netherland. 128 thousand 777 men are under arms for the Dutch Republic .Prince Huygens, Rembrandt's benefactor, deciphers intercepted dispatches in the Prince of Orange's  headquarters at Hertogenbosch. In Calvinist controlled Leiden 25 year old  Rembrandt takes to portraying himself in armour. By 1631, when Rembrandt  relocates to Amsterdam, the city's competing churches have come to a  grudging accomodation. Despite the fractious political climate the city is  a hot bed of manufacture and trade with the Orient.  The savour  of spices  and silks, the rhythms of urban industries-- cloth fabrication., paper  making,  gem cutting, weapons forging, chimes through its neighborhoods.  The artist thrives for a time in the vibrant economic climate. His pictures  of prosperous burghers (and of course, himself) and religious scenes  ingrain an exotic, cross cultural vocabulary and intrigue.<br />Schama's  analysis of the paintings is as scholarly as his depiction of the  historical forces which were shaping them, in a Europe ripped by religious  war. He looks also into the unsettled ambition embedded in Rembrandt's  artistry. No major artist of his time or since has painted so many self  portraits, in so many guises. No other artist absorbed more of the texture  of his time and place. His influences were political, theological, social  as well as aesthetic and developed into an idiosyncratic genius.  Rembrandt's eyes as the author notes, provide a  lens into these turbulent  times and the passions of the artist. Twenty years from conception to  print, Schama's opus spans its subject with a  detail as fine as the lace  on one of the artist's collar pieces.  <br />The author contrasts Jean Paul  Rubens's ethereal idealism to Rembrandt's earthy colloquialism as metaphor  for the political divisions of the times. Rembrandt was treading new ground  in art. The compassionate consideration of human dilemmas and blemishes was  a rebellion against the politicization of art in a time when painting was  dogmatic and polemical. Rembrandt's tactile accouterments, lustrous  colours, give an eidetic quality to metal, fabric or paper. The works had  plural focal points producing a visual dynamic. The creamy pallor of  irradiated faces are juxtaposed against some intricately detailed  artifact-- lace, gemstone, coral, armour--  and those against  props  providing subtle sub-texts. They are bathed in an illogical light  which  seems to emanate rather than reflect from its characters. A narrative and  cosmopolitan bustle energizes his artwork.  <br />'The Repentant Judas', is  one the best studies of the artist's ability to synthesize surreal contexts  and intensely expressive figures into a cohesive spirituality. Schama  spends 12 written pages on that magical evocation of purposeful community  'The Night Watch'.  'Two Old Men Disputing'  shows Rembrandt's  preoccupation with representing age and decay in dignified elegance. He  had, though, had no talent for business or orderly finances. He was a  compulsive accumulator and a mark for bad investments. That would  eventually impoverish him even as his fame became well established. This  was not lost  in his later portraits, more abstract and rendered with a  pensive, sombre defiance. The stern expressions of the 'The Sampling  Officials' could well be the those of his creditors. Some transcendence  reasserted itself in his final works, most remarkably in vital mysteries of  'The Jewish Bride' and 'Simeon and the Christ Child' <br />Schama writes  objective prose, with an impressive command of his subject. This is no  esoteric meditation. It is a exhaustive study of the development of a craft  and of the society that spawned it. The book is a beautifully composited  coffee table book with a distinctive literary and historical flavour.  Schama has produced one of the great artist biographies of all time, and a  depiction of an age, as any age is most clearly represented by its art.	2000-06-02
US	52527103	R3UK65XG3BRF27	0446385077	117490739	In Search of Excellence: Lessons from Americas Best Run Companies	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a'Rockwell' painting of  a business culture of yesteryear?	How are great companies managed? What leads to their growth and sustained dominance of the marketplace? Peters and Waterman asked this question in 1982 and came up with answers which should have provided a scientific  verification  to the most idealistic prophets of capitalism. The answers  were simple and constructive. Generally, <br />*Define yourself  and your  structure, then stick  to the knitting.<br />*Nurture and reward employee  excellence. Provide a climate of security and creativity in which   employees developed loyalty and understanding of  corporate values, and  were in turn developed to  their full potential. <br />*Establish long term  customer relationships based on trust, high quality and  value in products  and service.<br />*Re-invest in and re-invent your company  continuously   within a defined sense of mission  and social purpose.<br />Peters's and  Waterman's project was to find what made the most successful companies of  their time tick. In 1982 the hi-teck revolution, notably in personal  computing, had just barely moved out of Steve Job's garage. A longstanding  equilibrium between business prerogative and government intervention in  issues of  social equity and regulation of commerce, trade, workplace and  markets had been in place since the Second World War. But this was under  increasing pressure from well organized and financed corporate lobbies.  Unsurprisingly at the end of this era of steady growth and popularly shared  wealth the authors came up with a very positive take on corporate  excellence and resultant success. Certainly some of these ideals are still  ascendent in the most dynamic of business companies, the entrepreneurial  sector. The case with bricks and mortar 'old' economic productive sector  has been somewhat different.<br />It is interesting to note that Peters wrote  a book a few years later called 'Thriving on Chaos' in which he tried to  come to grips with a commercial culture which was increasingly  unpredictableand exploitive. One which seemed to promote  short term  pragmatism with respect to all except the shareholders. A group whose  dictates were expressed in increasingly interrelated organizations. Their  relationship with the corporation's social 'stakeholders' was anonymous,  amoral and based solely on immediate performance. They were interested in  short term and bloated returns, uninterested in traditions, enculturated  values, long term stability or the wider community. Capital being far more  fluid than industrial infrastructure, penalties were placed on industry  which was not willing to chart the basest course of exploitation of  employees, currencies, customers, nations. This rewarded the investor with  a high voltage, quick return, who then moved on. Jobs started fleeing to  the most desperate labour markets offshore. Free market ideology skewed the  playing field, took the referee away, giving the edge to those who played  rough and dirty. Currencies were now held hostage to an unsupervised  supranational casinos at the behest of a corporate organism interested only  in its own aggrandizement at the expense of the weak. MBA's provided a  stilted logic to rationalize it all.   <br />Has spectre of ungoverned free  markets robbed corporations of the options of operating like good corporate  citizens? Has it forced them to match and out maneuver the most cunning and  manipulative of their competitors? Is capital's old predatory ways   reasserting itself, as Marx always said it would? It seems the builders who  saw social responsibility as the greatest saving grace of capitalism are  being methodically erased by a brutal new species in a regenerate jungle.   This book may indeed be a retrospective of a business culture that seems to  be dying, and who knows what society will be in the ethos that is replacing  it.	2000-06-01
US	52527103	R3F6GKDXXWJZGK	0312255012	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying	Books	4	8	9	N	N	ashes to ashes	On the dedication page of 'Prayer for the Dying' O'nan placed a quote from Albert Camus's 'The Plague'.  &quot;There is no escape in a time of plague, we must choose to either love or hate God.&quot; 'Prayer' owes a debt and  provides a striking contrast to the existentialist masterpiece. Both books  are set in lonely outposts at the seeming edge the world, afflicted with a  deadly disease. The towns are isolated microcosms of society and the human  condition at large. Diphtheria spreads in O'nan's Wisconsin settlement, as  a raging brush fire closes in on it. Jacob Hansen, sheriff, pastor,  undertaker is the custodian of the wretched destruction of his community.  He performs the sacraments, assists the doctor, buries the dead, seals the  quarantine. He is a survivor of the Civil War and its images  are an  indelible refrain in his memory, as carnage and death seem attached to him  like a curse. The unusual second person narrative gives a slightly  disassociated perspective, as if the narrator is a witness rather than a  participant in the horrors around him. Jacob presides like an angel of  death over a futile struggle, dispensing comfort and arbitrary expedience.  'A Prayer for the Dying' however is not an existential tome. At its  core  there is faith, charity, hope--a bedrock of structure and belief, which  sustains the protagonist as all that is important is taken from him. That  is the antithesis of Camus's proposal of meaning being  solely in the  immediate, intrinsic value of heroic action-- the existentialist  credo of  conduct ennobled by its freedom from spiritual duty or expectation of  reward. Both authors explore indifference to suffering, and the measure of  character in alleviating it. There is no outward necessity for Jacob to act  as he does, he could save his himself and his family, yet he grimly  perseveres. Camus and O'nan finally agree that the understanding of random  evil rests in the response, not its justification-- be that solitary revoltor spiritual refuge.	2000-03-23
US	52527103	R2QO1ABVMDDFA9	0140187812	387033813	Apocalypse (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	D.H. Lawrence's revelation	Written in response to widespread condemnation of the sexuality and libertine lifestyles presented in his books, Apocalypse was the final attempt by D. H. Lawrence to make himself understood. The modern reader  will probably detect a full throttle blitz against the puritanical deacons  of the Church of England and his establishment tormentors. Launched from  the most contentious and abstruse of the Bible's books, Revelation,  Lawrence levels his antipathy at a rigid, superficially moral, life denying  exposition of Christian thought. He argues that the confining nature of  living the 'good' life in expectation of reward in Heaven cuts to the root  of an immensely rich potential for experience and passion presented in the  world. He continuously falls back on opaque codices-- of arcane  civilizations that he states more fully explored the metaphysical realm.  Lawrence divines a heroic age where apparent creation and destiny were seen  as integral and complete. Robert Graves's 'The White Goddess'  comprehensively analyzes the same mythological, magical architecture, but  Lawrence uses it in a much more targeted and critical way.     Lawrence saw  the aesthetic brilliance of Revelation as a bridge to a more mysterious,  immediate, compelling theology. At the same time he condemns the  apocalyptic churches who interpret the book as the evocation of Hell and  Judgement, rather than in its potent poetic symbolism. He goes so far as to  accuse John of Patmos of not presenting a revelation at all, but  of  appropriating a truer, more ancient historiography for eccliastical and  political reasons. Not above placing his own eccentric opinions of  government in this tract, he could be accused of mounting his own pulpit, if with literary distinction. His claim of an affirming devotion to the  visible universe as the only 'true' route to the holy can be countered by  reading some of the lively writings of Christian ascetics. This treatise, however, is not about them. It is aimedsquarely at the convention seeking, socially regulating, sanctimonious attitudes that had censored and prosecuted him.  Not surprisingly it did not raise his stock much among his  critics, but it is an essential text in understanding the underlying  motives behind his works.	2000-03-09
US	52527103	R2F55M053D2DDO	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	3	7	11	N	N	cry, the beloved daughter	David Lurie- Professor of Communications at Cape Technical University, twice divorced, 52 years old, admirer of Wordsworth and Byron, plier of prostitutes and coeds. All id and ego, constrained by a self-absorbed  estrangement from any more meaningful or appropriate involvements. When an  affair with a student becomes known that same alienated root leads to his  ouster and disgrace, when less severe alternatives were available to him.  He drifts to his daughter's township farm, where both become victims of a  brutal crime. Disgrace presents a bleak picture of a spiritual stasis that  grips an aging Lothario. One can glean, though, an exploration of post  apartheid South Africa is being vaguely inferred, of exploitation,  retribution-- destruction or salvation-- the outcome unresolved.<br />The  emotional subsistence of the main character and his strained relations with  his daughter is the main impulse. As with a lot  of modern fiction,  Disgrace, has a prosaic focus on a 'quality' of  relationship and  character, with no obvious wider purpose or destination in the theme. Here  it is actuated by horrific but avoidable circumstances, by a wilful  stubbornness in the father's and daughter's life decisions. <br />Coetzee's  writing style is understated, nondescript, but dreamlike at its best. It  can be cruelly symbolic, a mauled goat as the protagonist's own pitiful  condition and ravaging by the university bureaucracy, or lyrically, as when  Lurie conjures up Byron's mistress, Theresa, a ghost of his atrophied  passion. There are allusions, though, of something more primordial and  indistinct being pronounced, I'm not sure what. I might not have commented  on the book had it not received one of the world 's top book prizes, the  Booker. Then again, I might have given it 4 stars if I were not using that  as the standard. As a previous reviewer stated the whole thing lingers, I  may have been harsh, no less harsh than Coetzee's own reckless imagination  though. - by some measures a brilliant book, but decidedly to taste!	2000-01-27
US	52527103	R1DIN9Z4H9BGOA	0865472106	798946796	A Sport and a Pastime: A Novel	Books	5	18	23	N	N	a diamond in the rough	In the introduction to the Modern Library edition, Salter stated he was trying to write a book of imperishable images and obsessions-- which contrasted the ordinary from the divine. Existential, surreal,  expressionist, emotionally abstract, all these terms can be applied  inadequately to the result. Set around France, it follows a footloose Yale  dropout's relationship with a young shopgirl. It is a passionate shambles  of impressions and reflections. The book's sparsity fills volumes. The  third person, subjective narrative merges with the thoughts of the  protagonist, always focused on sensuality and fragility. Like a dissonance  of the will and conscience, it all seems imagined. Braced by  precise  language, compressed to a critical mass, Salter's withering insights  release sudden visual eruptions. This tale is an intensely philosophical  look at life, outlined by a  passing love affair.  Writing that has  achieved this level of density and inner light is rare. A Sport and a  Pastime sparkles and dazzles!	2000-01-15
US	52527103	R3ELDJYL033EYH	0140109625	505627593	All That Is Solid Melts into Air: The Experience of Modernity	Books	5	110	117	N	N	whither the modern?	Goethe and Marx, these are cardinal figures in the history of modernity. Goethe, the spiritual father of its grand visions and inexhaustible hope. Marx, the outsider, the witness to the  sorcery of its soul and that of its  organizing principle, Capital. His charge-- it is an artifice of  progressively concentrating energy that will not be bound by any   responsibility or shared purpose. The practical result is a constant  breakdown of community and institutions as they are offered to the flame of  re-invention. This is the core of the book's message. Nothing is permanent  in the modernist domain. Art, city, ideals, country-- all are subsumed into  new solids that immediately fracture and evaporate under pressure of  another oncoming order, crashing in with waves of reorganization. The  technologies of its own genius are its tools. The post-structural epoch is  merely another phase of modernism's relentless push to incinerate the old  and recreate society in its own frenzied image. Iconoclasm becomes the  coordinating edict. The erasure of all cultural memory is implicit; moral  purpose is desanctified; Capital's own ethos is elevated to the realm of   faith.<br />Berman moves from the literary and intellectual movements of  France and Russia into the streets. The building of St. Petersburg, with  its imposed occidental face on Russia's traditionally oriental  sensibilities, the boulevards of Paris's reconstruction of the 1870's, and  the highways of the irrepressible Robert Moses-- the urban landscape has  chronicled modernism's advance. The breadth of this thesis in choosing such  disparate symbols to exemplify the progression is impressive, as is  Berman's ability to synthesize them. When the book was written twenty years  ago Communism had not yet collapsed, but its moral failure was evident, its  material demise imminent. Berman's more romantic notions of a merging of  modernism and Marxism, harnessing the creative impulse to popularly  reasoned objectives, might have passed from any realistic possibility. His  relationship with both is clearly one of fascination and alienation. All  that seems to have gone down in flames, in annihilating contradictions,  and, in the infinite actualization of modernism's belief in itself. It will  tolerate no governance. A persistent anti- modernist insurgency, fragmented  and cleaved onto disparate political structures, provides a cowed  conscience at best. But with its illimitable dominion seemingly secure,  Berman's proposal is thought provoking indeed-- that all of Marx's  characterizations of its nature are true, and that no sustainable  alternative has yet been conceived.	2000-01-13
US	52527103	R15DT1X1KI4QGX	0374524327	273884059	The Memoirs of Hecate County	Books	5	8	9	N	N	the charms and spells of Hecate	Edmund Wilson is one of the great literary and social critics of the 20th century. This collection,  largely forgotten in his voluminous interpretive texts, is a group of 6 interrelated stories which explore aspects of  contemporary society  (published in 1946). Wilson's keen analytical mind,  gives these tales a penetrating, still relevant,  perspective. The venue is  upscale Hecate County, New York (Hecate is the Queen of Witches), built of  marriages of form, and a social life of formalities. Passion, here,  swirls  in a cauldron of  manners. The matriarchal community is dominated by a self  involved, status-seeking, unsatisfied type of woman. These are stories of  intrigue, even bewitchment, bound by strictures of guilt or conformity.  Pathos mingles with humour and  observation to produce a sharp relief of  the cultural terrain. His methods include both biting satire and  tantalizing insights of intimacy. The elliptical conversations provide a  platform for far ranging, not so subtle social criticism. The women are  weavers of charms. They form only a spectral presence in some of the  stories, but are always a catalyst in the vaguely destructive  relationships. In the most ambitious story, Princess With the Golden Hair,  oblique sensual imagery imbues an erotic undertone;  sexuality itself is  portrayed in morally ambiguous, layered contradictions. Wilson is examining  conventions which bind people in structures sapped of meaning, while  confessing subliminally the need for standards-- and for love. In this way  the book reflects both the mid century suburban angst and the more  persistent predicaments of  the heart.	2000-01-02
US	52527103	R2YJNMGFKX8ZMT	039395904X	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	36	41	N	N	ghosts or goblins	Henry James's tale is the last of the gothic Victorian novellas, with its richly developed sense of propriety-- a semblance of manners and understatement concealing primitive subliminal impulse. Its dense, symbolic  language penetrates deeply into the psyche. There is evil here. But its  emanation is ambiguous and amorphous. The characters exist in a pervasive  atmosphere of dread. The exact source of that dread has intrigued readers  since it was written before the turn the (20th) century.  Central to  James's fable is the character of the Governess. Was she deluded, predatory  or ennobled?  Her motives hold the key to the solution-- if there is a  solution. <br />James reveled in brooding, subversive sexual undercurrents.  The suspense is ethereal since nothing is sure in James's painstakingly  constructed psychological panorama. What is real here? Whose innocence is  being corrupted? It's all a mystery, wrapped in a riddle, cloaked in a--  well, ghost story!  But riddles are meant to be solved. James has provided  us all the necessary clues. The text fills barely 88 pages, but the  critical interpretation, covering a century, shows the enduring capacity of  'the Screw' to engage the imagination. The analyses mirrors our changing  attitudes toward children, psychology and the nature of evil. The Norton  Critical Edition includes an excellent survey of various commentaries over  the decades, which provide  fascinating insight into contemporary mores as  they were pressed into decoding James's great puzzle.	1999-12-27
US	52527103	R2PWY5MKH0RW7C	0684862964	751802434	The CLINTON ENIGMA : A FOUR AND A HALF MINUTE SPEECH REVEALS THIS PRESIDENT'S ENTIRE LIFE	Books	3	4	7	N	N	never complain, never explain	My beef with Maraniss's book is that I don't think you take a page from a person's life, make that the most humiliating and lowest point in his career and somehow extrapolate that into a microcosm of his character. The  mere choice of this as the exemplary icon seems to indicate a deep  prejudice on the issue. A spontaneous denial of a sex act, one that in no  way had any public significance or compromised the office is only a signal  of primitive reactive impulse, not a sign of character-- which is   developed of maturity and obligation and displayed as a product of reason.  The sterling symbol of the Presidency has almost always been filled with  individuals of contradictions and compromises, some driven by exemplary  ideals, some by pure ambition. The Clinton character is far more complex  than can be summed up in 4 minute speech. At Clinton's core there is deep  compassion for people. It is when he speaks to issues of race or social  equity that he becomes most authentic. That is wrought of childhood where  he was forced into adult roles of protectiveness and responsibility at an  early age, which might explain why an unresolved adolescent nature forms an  element of his personality. Adversity brings out only his grim  determination to overcome, and because of this only peace and prosperity  denied his Presidency greatness.	1999-12-24
US	52527103	R27I750IWHTJOR	0374504938	459059688	The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth, Amended and Enlarged Edition	Books	5	86	93	N	N	visions and memory in myth	I won't pretend I know exactly what this book is  about. Graves presents his arguments with the reasoning of  a poet, decidedly not the formal logic of a theologian or the empirical induction of a historian. I gave this book  5 stars because of its sheer ambition and audacity. Graves is attempting a  synthesis of the entirety of mythology into a coherent grammatical code, a  universal metaphysical language. That is a monumental undertaking, not only  due to the breadth of knowledge of the Christian, Pagan and Classical  canons it requires, but also because these traditions  are commonly  regarded as antithetical, their communities, such as they exist, hostile to  each other. Graves proffers a common root under the ossified codices, if  with an uneven case.<br />Poets, as a group, are known for their affinity to  the mystical and mythological. The poetic temperament imbues and projects   inner forms with  aspects of corporeality, which the rest of us grasp only  dimly as a spectre of consciousness, without significance or shape. The  true poet is more likely to see them as a magical talisman, an object of  necessary reality. Numbers, alphabets, calendars, zodiacs-- lunar and solar  domains-- a primal order bubbles from the cauldron of Graves's conceptions.  His spells are incarnate in trees, minerals, birds, planets-- metaphors of  an underlying truth. <br />This analysis  springs from two dense poems of  spiritual mysticism, The Battle of the Trees (Welsh Druid) and Hanes  Taliesen ( Early Christian). Presented as a vision, like Revelations, they  pose a  riddle and mix symbols. Graves's solution loosely ties his thesis  together. Linguists have theorized about the existence of grammatical  archetypes; mythic relics are visible in Christian sacraments;  correspondence amongst various folklore is widely acknowledged. Graves is  not proposing anything radically new. He has, though, developed a cryptic  framework which is supernatural and aesthetic, an elixir of divination and  contemplation. He sees the White Goddess, as  muse, in every authentic poem  since those of Homer. His construction puts history at the service of his  grammatical architecture. The White Goddess is a work of introspection and  selective interpretation, comparable to those of Jung or Spengler, not one  of conventional scholarship. Many of its assertions are farfetched or  arbitrary, some pure formulations. That is not to understate its value.  This is the culmination of a life's reflections, investigations and  musings. It represents the articulation of a powerful,  syncretic  imagination-- a concordance of speculation and intuition.	1999-12-17
US	52527103	R21PE6Z4O0YE3M	0374260990	174196769	A Sense of Where You Are: Bill Bradley at Princeton	Books	5	13	13	N	N	a sense of grace	Curious about Bill Bradley,  the man? Sometimes a sense of the man can be had by looking at the youth. This book was written in 1965 after Bradley had finished his Princeton career and was on his way to Oxford. John  McPhee's books pack powerful character studies into deceptively simple  language. On the surface this is a book about basketball (it's a good book  about basketball!), and about excellence through dedication and discipline  . The ironic title refers to Bradley's always being aware of where he was  on the court in relation to the basket, and to his deep sense of social  responsibility for his gifts of privilege, intellect and ability. The  portrayal is of a decent, conscientious young man, undistracted or affected  by intense celebrity-- whose success in athletics and academics was as much  a function of attitude and determination as any innate talent	1999-12-10
US	52527103	RDXSZP0K8PTBE	0679761276	294863600	Representations of the Intellectual:  The 1993 Reith Lectures	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Representations of the Intellectual	Edward Said is a distinguished professor of Literature at Columbia University. These are the Reith Lectures he delivered in 1993.  He is a Palestinian Christian who has  long been involved with issues of human  rights there and around the world. Said deplores, here, the pressures and  seductions  of 'professionalism' on the intellectual in today's society. He  describes these as coming from specialization, from of the cult of the  certified expert as he calls it, from coopting by social, educational or  political  agendas, and, from commercialization, which sees all ideas as a  product in a market, held to standards of economic viability rather than  truth. The intellectual, he argues, must rigorously maintain objectivity  and espouse activism. An attitude of being outside the conforming  principles of associations, even those by which the individual is defining  himself,  is the impulse to conscience which is the key message of this  thesis. The obligation of advocating for what is 'true' or 'just' is  implicit with this. Authenticity and spontaneity in assessing these issues  are instilled first by developing that moral sense, secular and flexible,  and applying it in the context of broad learning. Those are compelling and  challenging standards, which anyone who aspires to the intellectual, in  character or understanding (and that should include all of us) must aspire.   One can then  differentiate this from the burgeoning 'intellectual  industry' of today, traders in credibility, mercenaries for whatever  paradigm happens to be ascendent and expedient. Said's own life attests to  the influence one can have if honest to the concepts of universality,  humility and integrity he discusses in these fine essays.	1999-12-08
US	52527103	R3XBS48KZLAG5	0394759486	864433181	Burning the Days: Recollection	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a reflection  in the mind's eye	Salter has had the life to which many men would envy. It is spread out over the last half of the twentieth century, buttressed by an education at West Point, flying the first generation of fighter jets over Korea. This  followed by a free wheeling existence chasing adventure and experience  across the globe as a writer of screenplays and short stories. This book is  a memoir  of life consumed first hand, with a ravenous appetite but also  with insight and compassion. Salter can take on the role of an objective  onlooker to his personal drama, a critical one where warranted. There seems  to be a degree of separation between the experiences he is describing and  the sensibilities of the present author, as if seen in a mirror's  reflection. One shaded by a patina of the luster and discretion of life's  lessons.  The book is presented in episodes, an elegant prose laying the  mortar between himself and the people he has known and relationships he has  had. This is a testament of personal growth, an appreciation of old  friends. The frailties and complexities of his pilgrimage  are movingly  expressed, and this expression is the source of the book's power. His  literary style is simple and clear  without shedding the ethereal and  romantic. There is a unique geography to Salter's writing, a spare and arid  narrative lead into and out of oases of great erudition, eloquence  and  emotional impact.  The seductions, though,  of early notoriety,  fast  times, and in-crowds took their toll in diversion and dissolution of  creative energy.  This might explain the lack of a more significant   identity and opus from such a gifted writer, known and justifiably admired  more by his co-writers than the general public.	1999-12-02
US	52527103	R13FT0HPNMJM90	0670887579	200647078	A Star Called Henry	Books	4	11	13	N	N	who is Henry!	I usually feel trilogies are somewhat commercially manipulative. The reader is given a piece of a story and obligated to finish the epic over a period of years. Somehow it seems to rob the book of its compression and  intensity-- its finality. Doyle has created a memorable set of characters.  His description of the Easter Rebellion is scintillating. The depiction of  the poverty  and desperation of the Dublin slums poignant. The life of an  IRA volunteer is unromantically and realistically portrayed in all its  bloody carnage. His language is eidetic and at times mesmerizing (which  saved the 4 stars). There seems to be a tendency, though, to present Henry  as a personna while keeping the person a mystery. Other characters are left  fustratingly oblique.  I'd  suggest that developing subsequent books around  the lives of some of the characters here-- the martyrs of Easter, the  madame, Henry's father--  would a better literary route than Henry himself,  who seems chiseled in stone rather than flesh and blood.	1999-12-02
US	52527103	R3PLK0NX4WT4CS	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	3	43	55	N	N	small town extraterrestrial visits modern city	This is something of a sightseeing tour through the depredations of modern urban design. Highly anecdotal in its approach, choppy in style, it covers no real new ground. It is, however, a useful survey of current criticism of  urban planning. I was distressed to see his bibliography contained no  mention of Jane Jacob's 'The Death and Life of Great American Cities'-- the  seminal work taking to task the concepts manifested in suburban wastelands  and decaying inner cities. Kunstler's approach swings between vague  economic, historic and philosophical tracts and some fairly well traveled  material on building and urban design theories. The most prominent villain  in this take is the car. This really doesn't provide a useful starting  point for designing more livable cities. Not unless you acknowledge that  the car is here to stay, and that urban design will have to come grips with  its presence and still aspire to build cities which provide intense  community centred cultures.<br />Urban design reflects directly our values as  a society. Answers as fundamental as Kunstler is proposing cannot be  broached successfully without changing those values. That is an idealistic  and realistically futile prospect. The vocal and activist polarities on  this issue, the utopian and maudlin pragmatic, dictate  the limited  attention and action it gets in the political reality. Railing against the  automobile, corporate priorities, environmental inattention or our  alienation from the homogenous communities of our past will finally  relegate the issue to a few  academics and misanthropes. The real solution,  such as one exists, is going to have to come from a consensus which  realizes that population growth, economic realities, automobiles, and  social heterogeneity are going to be part of our future and have to be  incorporated in a far from perfect outcome. But one which will hopefully  ensure human and community values have a presence and priority in planning  decisions. The potential trap is that a new paradigm  replaces the last  with some faddish design manifesto completely inappropriate to many local  conditions, imposing some sentimental pastiche on problems which are not  primarily architectural in nature. Like environmentalism, city design works  best at the involved community level, where unique urban aspirations can be  iterated with economic and ergonomic necessity.	1999-11-26
US	52527103	R1O6YURTAIY4SK	0375401199	102647171	Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth	Books	5	66	66	N	N	It seems like only yesterday!	A book which attempts to cover four billion years in less than four hundred pages is going to have to be a  survey aimed at the general reader. If you like serious scientific tomes which discourage humour and a bit of  artistic license in written presentations-- this is not for you. Fortney's  book is an engaging and enjoyable read that gives insight into the  development of life on earth and the scientific field of paleontology. His  gifts for constructing an accessible and often charming narrative, quoting  poets and bards, noting geniuses and quacks, is  a great tribute to English  educational system-- which here has developed a devoted scientific mind,  obviously entranced by his subject matter, who can express himself with  elegance, comprehension, wit and some self deprecation, a refreshing  attribute for a scientist.	1999-11-22
US	52527103	R2G88UXFRERPG3	0375401393	477303001	Blizzard of One: Poems	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Something about the silence of the square.	Mark Strand is a former Poet Laureate of the United States who writes transcendant minimalist poetry. Somehow I feel refreshed and uplifted by his poems, even when the topic is one of personal despair and the mood is  that of finality. His poetry seems to breath, like Fost's, of moments of  illumination born of a searching soul and silent contemplation. This is a  work of craftsmanship from a gifted wordsmith. A worthy award winner of the  Pullitzer for Poetry in 1999.	1999-11-22
US	52527103	R3IE5G44KZ9ENJ	156478214X	833071710	The Third Policeman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Truth or Consequences	O'Brien's book transports the reader into a magical place of surreal, ethereal  caricatures. The  put upon 'hero'  deals with his conscience , the local constabulary and the consequences of brutally chopping up old  Mathers for his lost box of cash. It is a funny,  lyrical and thought  provoking allegory. The type of book that tricks you into thinking you're  reading a little ditty of a murder mystery when you're really reading a  small masterpiece of modern literature.	1999-10-22
US	52527103	R2LNN0L3U2OVU	0963846191	345240498	The Shell Game: Reflections on Rowing and the Pursuit of Excellence	Books	5	47	48	N	N	reflections from the Yale Boathouse	Rowing is among the most anonymous of sports. In the prestige categories there are legends and myths, but these are little known or acclaimed outside its community.. It retains its Brahmin character; despite becoming  more accessible in recent years, it still has the aura of Groton, Exeter,  St. Paul's preps and the Ivy League. The first Yale - Harvard contest was  held in 1852, predating any other intercollegiate athletics. Kiesling takes  you into the world of the 8's, in futile preparation for the boycotted 1980  Olympics. A house scholar and varsity member at Yale, Kiesling gives you a  grasp of the cult like devotion to this sport, the fraternal but bitterly  competitive atmosphere for places on the boat, the almost complete physical  immersion, beyond exhaustion, in preparation for regattas-- and the little  acre of hell and glory (or agony) of the races themselves. This type of  athletic intensity is, if not unique, uniquely exhibited in Crew-- members  strive to exceed their limits, to match and challenge that of their crew  mates, to uphold its traditions. This is a young man's book;  his sharp  opinions reflect a young man's attitudes born of singular personal  challenges-- which moderate with maturity. It is a  good book on rowing,  and a great book on the competitive spirit.	1999-09-22
US	52527103	RXVAQSTIXAE1C	1550131095	350808091	Swimming With Alex Baumann	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Book for the Competitive or Serious Recreational Swimmer	Still one of the best books on swim technique and competitive training regimes. Tihanyi provides most of the technical advice, but his student Baumann gives some perspective on the competitive swimming life and the  discipline required to win 2 individual gold medals at the LA Olympics.	1999-09-20
US	52527103	RK1QKA76ZKQ6E	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	good tactical narrative and more!	Keegan's book is one of military history. A General's perspective of strategy, logistics, objectives and equipment. To the extent that this is a briefing, I'd concur with some previous reviews that appendixes of maps and  lists of battles, dates and names would have been extremely helpful. This  is more than a dry rendering of the facts of battles, though. Keegan's  narrative strength is his gift for language, and his ability to weave in a  human element to the clinical reasoning which justified sacrificing  millions to the gain a few meters of waste land. Time and again he refers  to the beautiful garden cemeteries that string out along what was the  Western Front, marking the great offenses-- the Marne, Ypres, Somme,  Verdun--  where 10's of thousands died in single day, shattered by  bombardment, raked by machine gun fire, blistered and strangled by mustard  or phosgene gas-- the 'cauldron' battles like Tannenberg in the East, where  uncounted dead were left to return to the earth, unmarked-- the rocky and  barren coast of Gallipoli, where single monuments remember both sides. It's  a remarkable achievement to produce  this type of history of the First  World War, giving clarity and proportion to the tactical sweep of events,  while retaining a sense of horror and futility at the losses of this  particular war, which resolved nothing and paved the way for more  devastation within a couple of decades.	1999-09-19
US	52527103	R2RFTRGQ5TTWEA	0679755489	413604673	Death of Virgil	Books	5	44	47	N	N	Virgil's dark night of the soul	&quot;Burn the Aeneid&quot; Virgil instructs his friends from his deathbed. Broch, as Dante did before him, uses Virgil as a spiritual guide in this exploration of the metaphysical and moral imagination. Here, the  dying poet, reflects feverishly, consciously transcending his decaying form  into the infinite universe--  and despairs of hope, as his sheltering  idealism  is confronted with the reality of human existence, the limits and  futility of his understanding. Virgil's trust in a civilized humane  society, one that, at its source, springs from the  individual's  seeking  of  beauty, freedom and wisdom, disintegrates, into one represented by the  predations  of the mob of the streets of Rome, as does his confidence in  the Aeneid, his opus. A dialogue on the fate of the Aeneid ensues  between  Virgil and Augustus, forming a complex debate on art and government. Virgil  defends the purity of the perceived world as metaphor, free of the  allusions of art; Augustus proposes the nobility of art as symbol for  government. A delicate lattice of oppositions and constructive  contradictions braces the book. This is, though, ultimately, a story of the  human journey, a struggle with darkness and doubt, reconciliation, and a  rise to salvation. The remarkable final section has the celestial  translucence of 'Paradiso'. The Death of Virgil is among a handful of true  literary masterpieces this century whose reach, that of the entire compass  of human impulse, consciousness and conscience, has equalled its grasp. It  is  a work of intellectual and spiritual adventure. Broch orchestrates an  inquiry and fugue, sombre and passionate, into life, encompassed in a  sensuous poetic oration--  and Virgil  continues to cast his spell on the  divine and the aesthetic order, employed  by masters to illuminate our  deepest perplexities and aspirations.	1999-09-17
US	52527103	R3GKONG0GQO03P	0374192030	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Day Dreams from A NY Skyscraper	A starry eyed pep talk on the wonderful new world of the global economy-- free from any real experience of the depradations of the New World Order, Friedman chooses not to visit the maquilladora free trade zones, with their  wrenching poverty and human exploitation. What Friedman replaces any  critical analysis with is the sophistry, platitudes and blue sky fantasies  of the neo liberal order, while every aspects of a democratic economy spins  downward in the clutches and predations of his 'free' markets and  information economy. See what sustenance an information sandwich or warmth  a cyber dwelling has to provide the (increasingly numerous) victims of  these ravages. Read Noam Chomsky's 'Profit over People' or Eammon  Fingleton's 'In Praise of Hard Industries', to get a touch of reality of  what is REALLY happening out there and the type of illusions, well  represented in this book, that have to be overcome to fix it.	1999-09-16
US	52527103	R2Y9RNXIO2JT5M	0942299795	710859796	The Society of the Spectacle	Books	5	75	84	N	N	evolution of Marxism	Society of Spectacle has sometimes been characterized as a kind of dated meditation on consumer society and media, a diatribe on popular culture and pop psychology. It in fact, a far more important book of political and  philosophical thought. Debord eposes the fallacies and perceptions of  society and its manipulation and subjegation. In part a revision of  scientific Marxism, necessary to account for the divergence (or at least  the anomalies)  in the path of  20th Century capitalism from that predicted  in Capital (as perhaps moderated by the socialist movement), and also a  critical response to the utter failure of established communism to produce  a free society.  The brutal ideological bureaucracy and dictatorship in  China and Russia had fully embraced capitalist methods of imposing the  illusionary ideals of Debord's thesis on its people, but without  capitalism's  productive success. This was too much to ignore in the  exhilarating, if naive, atmosphere at the barricades in the 60's, which  accounts for this books appeal at that time.<br />Society of Spectacle  is  existentialist Marxism, buttressed by Freud and the behavioural sciences  maybe, but still one which retains the fundamental qualitative legacy of  Marx and the philosophical thread begun with Hegel. Its a fascinating and  challenging book on political theory, one which is an authentic attempt  modernize classic communist and anarchist dogma into a theory which fuses  with and responds to history and society as a whole. Few people are going  to be convinced by this now, but there is a strand of irrefutable truth in  its analysis of the consumer society, and the predicament of the individual  caught up in our commodity and market driven culture, which makes for a  penetrating and worth while read.	1999-09-09
US	52527103	R1S83XRXOJA7AO	0452280508	424198943	Mother Ireland: A Memoir	Books	5	38	39	N	N	unique addition to an Irish tradition	Ireland is a woman-- womb, cave, bride, harlot, hag-- so, paraphrased, does Edna O'Brien begin her memoir. It is hard to believe this  vibrant, lyrical reminiscence of growing up Irish has been out of print for years.  O'Brien has created a personal odyssey  in seven episodes out of the  mystery and mists of Irish life, weaving it into its history and its  mythology. Mother Ireland is  comparable to Joyce's little books, Dubliners  and Portrait of An Artist as a Young Man, in its command and integration of  language and spirit.  It dances with words,  sensuality and the wondrous  imagery, juxtaposed against the ever prevalent and monolithic Church and  violence in this society. This is a treasure that  imbues a unique touch  and colouration -- feminine and mystical, earthy and spectral--  into the  literary tradition of Ireland's small books.	1999-09-02
US	52527103	R9A0NN4ANZEI5	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	4	2	4	N	N	blood meridian and red death	McCarthy's prose traverses the edge of an alien and cruel frontier. It is populated by beings who are beasts in the image of men, traveling lands of baked dust, bleached bones and remorseless homicidal lust. It is a surreal  dream scape, iridescent and nightmarishly beautiful, that might have been  wrought on a planet without the verdancy and development of our own-- where  the arid and primitive panorama reflects the condition of the soul. Blood  here is avatar and seal. But we know this is our planet and this is our  history.<br />The language, imagery and nihilistic architecture of Blood  Meridian evoke Conrad and Camus. --But--. Is there the same level of  allegory and metaphor in this book? Compare it to Camus's survival in a  plague-ridden city, Conrad's mission to the dark heart of Kurtz's jungle,  Melville's search for the nemesis of Ahab. All of these books are of  profound manifestations of spiritual affliction and internal conflict. All  richly evoke the ambiguity and contrast of moral dilemma and hubris. I'm  not sure the same compass and standard exist here. There is a brilliant  exposition of landscape and conflict, objectively presented-- but I remain  unmoved by the blind bloodshed, overwhelmed and uninvolved. The characters  are specters of  banal and simple violence. This could be a book which will  live well past our age. It might be a book of our age. It is certainly a  book worth reading for its stunning and original use of language and  imagery-- but its company with the classics of modern literature might also  have been prematurely bestowed.	1999-09-01
US	52527103	R2ZEHE7EHUJPLR	0385092199	836485979	Contemplative Prayer (Image Classics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	sum of many parts	Thomas Merton's final book, this slim volume in many ways concludes the spiritual journey begun in The Seven Story Mountain. It is a guide for young monks in the aspirations and discipline of contemplative prayer, but  it is also a deeply felt meditation on the condition of (especially modern)  mankind and its apartness from God. The general reader will find profound  wisdom of a rigorous and mature intellect which compliments and sums  Merton's earlier work.	1999-08-19
US	52527103	RSZ0MPQ2QZA8H	1582430047	38104890	The Autobiography of Joseph Stalin	Books	4	0	1	N	N	plumbing Stalin's mind	This book succeeds at many levels, not the least of which is that it is a great read. Where it falls down is in the plausibility that Stalin would have been able to write an autobiography of this sort.  This is more of an edited diary of the young revolutionary and an obsessed tyrant than a  life's refection.  The dictator's mind is a psychic mass of narcissism,  paranoia, delusion, self idolatry and power lust. The type of objectivity,  much less empathy and rationalization, shown here would be quite foreign to  Stalin, whose instincts were to the moment, to survival and conquest over  enemies, real or perceived. The inner man was indistinguishable from the  outward manifestation, and therefor in no need of self explanation. A  messianic polemic would have been more likely from Stalin's pen, but more  likely still the actual silent testimony of one for who, as Lourie states,  there is only nothing and yourself. Overlook  this and the book is filled  with insight, history and the modi  of the great dictator. It is an   engaging and powerful character study, even as objective and speculative as  it is. The first person narrative can be both compelling and distracting.	1999-08-18
US	52527103	R3LB3ASLN604WL	0671751506	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	1	24	48	N	N	all the bombast you'd expect from a snake oil salesman	Limbaugh is at heart a promoter, not a political theorist. Promoters find products which tickle the public's fancy and market them. Rush here has stumbled on to a grudging amorphous resentment by people who feel abused  and forgotten by this complex, anonymous modern world. His product is to  package a simplistic villain onto which his ditto heads can project  culpability for any personal inadequacy, incomprehension or failing to  which they feel subjected. In this case its Liberals, a term that has meant  many things over the last 2 centuries, but to Rush simplified into an alien  ideologue, often associated with racial stereotypes, bent on taxing and  forcing all sorts of immoral agendas on them. Rush is not to blame, as a  promoter he's found a product that sells. Many of these issues need an  erudite presentation, understanding and discussion, which Rush replaces  with demagoguery and obfuscation. As a society letting this form of  superficial, carping, low brow entertainment be confused with debate and  argument, though, has indeed lowered the political dialogue to a level the  Founding Fathers might have found very disillusioning.	1999-08-07
US	52527103	R1XEGEKJCQ7NAY	0670874787	303305496	On the Road: 40th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	music of road	Some reviewers have criticised this book for having no real novelistic structure, others for its veneration of pointless wandering. Kerouak's real life certainly, outwardly, reflected a lack of structure, neurotic  wandering and finally a self destructive self absorbtion. But this book  opens the deeply imaginative and empathetic character of Kerouak. It is an  in depth search for meaning in life in activity, observation and friendship  without ulterior motive. His inner life projected into the Beat search for  artistic expression and social relevance in a society with decidedly more  normative and practical aspirations. Its poetic narration is seemless,  almost flow of consciousness, but built on Kerouaks intense social and  philosophical speculation. It requires a certain abandonment of traditional  expectations of idiom, after which it flows like the wail of a frenzied sax  over the radiating heat of the country's hiways.	1999-08-03
US	52527103	R3JPR7G75N6M7B	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Raymond Chandler.. move over	Many on this forum really can't decide if this book is literature or a prurient tease masquerading as literature (or worse). Despite some previous reviews, Ellis' portrait does not provide a masterful character development  of the psychopathic personality or an illustrative text of the corrupting  influence of yuppie materialism. The book is a rather well written  narrative of the adventures of a young urban professional sadistic murderer  in New York in the 1980's. His expose of a yuppie lifestyle amounts to a  listing of the expensive paraphenalia (Rolex's, bench made shoes, etc.),  and an obtuse music review. The sexual and sadistic sequences are delivered  with about as much emotion or scintillation as one would expect from  reading a grocery list. Indicative of a soiciopathic personality I guess.  The book tries to be provacative, but my jaded sensibilities refuse to be  shocked. There is little penetration and profundity here which would  qualify this as literature, little even to recommend it as social  commentary. Trying to give this transcendental or existential credentials  is a bit of a stretch. Taken as a pulpy piece of noire murder mystery (with  the mystery taken out) though, I suppose it has its charms. It is in that  company and genre that the book deserves a 4 star rating.	1999-08-03
US	52527103	R2MBCRN1TIZ61Q	0425104273	584718375	The First Deadly Sin (The Deadly Sins Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Superior to American Psycho	I have just surfed over from Bret Ellis' American Psycho because I thought the books seemed somewhat related. Both are pulpy, noire murder mysteries/thrillers-- well written, who's mystery deals more with the  motivation of the serial killer than a convoluted who done it. Despite the  5 reviews here versus the 360 some odd for Psycho, this is in fact the  superior work for this genre. Sanders uses more oblique and less literal  methods to develop some penetration in the murderers psyche. He also  provides an important moral framework to assess the nature of the crime. On  the whole this is a well constructed, penetrating book, which uses an  intelligent narrative  rather than shock to carry the story.	1999-08-03
US	52527103	R3U4WA5EI2WCO7	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Inscrutable and Timeless Sphynx of America	No one has impressed his personality into the American social consciousness and the reality of its political system as much as Thomas Jefferson. Ellis' psychological and character study portrays the  complexities and contradictions of this enigmatic figure. He tackles the  subject with level headed curiosity and objectivity, rather than the  polemics or propaganda which often accompanies breathless tributes to  American political icons. An individual capable of the most reasoned  idealism and imagination exemplified in the Declaration of Independence, a  romantic in his belief in the fundamental goodness of the human condition  and its corruption by the exercise of government-- he was also capable  irrational suspicion and bitter antipathy to those who differed with him.  His trust in individual human nature and distrust of institutions and  social organization was representative of the purest manifestation of the  Enlightenment in American political thinking during this formative period.  So also did he represent the pragmatism &amp; disingenuousness of the slave  owning, aristocratic Virginia planters class, to which he was born, and  which was so profoundly  conflicted with the egalitarian idealism of the  new republic. All  are admirably explored in this book, which should be  read by those interested in the interplay between the subjective character  and the political architecture wrought by one of world's great political  minds.	1999-07-26
US	52527103	RFKW8KHZMPBY0	0451526104	835712680	This Side of Paradise	Books	5	0	1	N	N	excellent 'young man in the world' book	This book is somewhat immature in structure and language in comparison to later books, but it is also Fitzgerald's most honest and autobiographical work. It was done before his infatuation with society and success, and his  alcoholism, diverted his intense ability to look at character and its  manifestations in sharp relief-- into portrayals of more maudlin sentiment.  Its a great 'young mans' book, an art form in itself, and always an  important read of an author who achieved fame later in life.	1999-07-24
US	52527103	R339QVTNIG9H42	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	follow the bouncing ball	I compare Delillo's book to its antithesis in style and structure, Tom Wolfe's A Man in Full, and find Underworld both more complex and demanding, and, at the same time less successful than Wolfe's comic satire. Both are  sweeping novels of the American condition at the turn of the Millennium.  Wolfe deals forthrightly with the hubris and illusions of American society,  his symbolisms unsubtle, primal and jarring. Delillo works at a much more  esoteric level, weaving myth with symbol, in a metaphysical analysis of the  mass and impulse of American culture, building on little more than a small  sphere of leather and string as the talisman of this fable. In a way you  can look at Underworld as a novelistic rendition of T.S. Eliot's Wasteland,  the same theme explored, and Delillo falls into the poetic stream of novel  writers, as a skilled wordsmith. I think though the book fails to meet the  daunting aspirations of the author's intent, but it is certainly worth the  (long) read as a noble attempt	1999-07-24
US	52527103	R1BLK6WZVUPBAG	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the horror..	Conrad's novel perfectly straddles the border between the 19th and 20th centuries. Marlowe's search for the company's renegade agent, Kurtz, is the compelling metaphor for this century's obsessional odyssey to the heart of  the human soul in modern civilization.. Kurtz and the Jungle.. darkness  manifest.	1999-07-07
US	52527103	R38RPNEKYFKU4	0929654374	993821432	My Secret Life	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A Bit of Socio Sexual History	This is an authentic account of a life devoted to and obsessed with sex, diarized over 40 years. Somehow this book seems to have gotten into the hands of adolescents over generations. It is an interesting document of  social history in that it lays bare the boiling sexual undercurrent of  Victorian society, so repressive and punitive of  of sexual issues. The  author clearly finds the furtive and hypocritical attitude of society  intoxicating to his pursuits. He would probably be considered a person of  upstanding quality in the times, because of the discretion and separation  he kept between his secret and public life. How things have changed, with  almost unrestricted presentations of sexuality in many public mediums,  along with a sanctimonious sentiment of outrage directed at public figures,  who find they no longer have a private life. All that remains the same is  the hypocrisy.	1999-07-05
US	52527103	R2JY6OX6N8AL5P	0345382226	22626639	Literary Journalism: A New Collection of the Best American Nonfiction	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A great tribute to the craft of journalism	Great feature writing is often notable for its transparency, drawing the reader into the story with the power and immediacy of the subject matter. Not surprising then that the craft and quality of the writing itself is  sometimes overlooked. Sims and Kramer have produced an eclectic mix of fine  writing which challenge the reader to regard it from the perspective of  literary attributes and construction, as well as its fascinating and  obscure topics of human interest. These are some of the finest feature  journalists in the country, each with his own style and emphasis, and all  with the ability to look at small stories with great insight into their  human dimensions. It's an excellent book for prospective writers and for  anyone interested in stories of sometimes mundane matters which are given  transcendant implications by a keen journalistic sense and prowess.  (Literary Journalists, another Sims collection from 1984 is also  recommended.. it's not dated at all!)	1999-07-04
US	52527103	R3LKOA3LF1AVSY	0156806797	734553685	The Seven Storey Mountain (Harvest/HBJ Book)	Books	5	244	248	N	N	a wry blessing..	Thomas Merton's early years gave no clue as to the vast richness of spirit and intellect he would develop through out his life and share through his writings. He was the son of an itinerant painter, had an upbringing with  little or no religious character, was a nondescript student, a rabble rouser.. not even a Catholic.. who at a point in his early manhood left the  fast life of New York and knocked on the doors of a Kentucky monastery, to  give over his life to austere ascetic contemplation.. and profound  internal enrichment. Seven Story Mountain has been compared to the  Confessions of Augustine, but these books are of different timber. Merton's  is a story told at a personal level, of a spiritual journey in a modern  context. It does not try to compete with Augustine's intense intellectual  and theological reasoning, preferring to dwell on the challenges and joys of religious life, and more generally the meaning and responsibilities of all lives. You can't read this book without being charmed and blessed by the proximity to this rare bit of humanity and devotion in our very secular and  material age.	1999-07-02
US	52527103	R2C22JG8DIG8ZX	0385238800	987047323	Lyndon Larouche and the New American Fascism	Books	1	4	20	N	N	A Book of Low Intellectual and Moral Quality	Larouche's odd mixture of left and right politics, conspiracy theories and apocalyptic visions of financial doom has intrigued or appalled political on lookers since 1964, when he retired from a Wall Street consultancy and  formed a group which became an adjunct member of the SDS in the late 60's.  His political theories developed into one promoting dirigiste economic  policies, both at the national and international level.. but predicated on  national political sovereignty along with sophisticated platforms on  education and other social issues. For some reason totally false  accusations of 'fascism' have been attached to what is a fundamentally  human and constructive, if perhaps flawed, political philosophy. Mr. King's  book really is muckraking and lies of the most blatant variety, a case  based solely on innuendo and corrupt intentions. Larouche does not seem to  pose the threat to these hysterics he used to, which means the political  victimization he has been subjected has been mitigated in recent years. But  his ideas are worth studying, both for their lucid articulation of at least  some of the problems we are facing today, the personal drama of this  quixotic, vision driven, brilliant but abstruse political intellect and as  a disturbing caveat as to how persecution, hysteria and ignorance.. all  fully embodied in Mr. King's book.. are still a potent threat to free  expression and liberty.	1999-07-02
US	52527103	R2WWO26O13OQCI	0684859262	63597638	Single & Single	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Le Carre in the New World Order	John Le Carre novels have an atmospheric quality. I tend to read them more slowly than usual to let the sense of corrupted ideals and imminent menace establish itself within the complex, relationship driven scenarios. Le  Carre's odd construction unfolds in a series of vignettes and flashbacks,  often at seeming tangents to the storyline, elaborately and sensuously  detailed, while important plot developments can be dealt with and dismissed  in a paragraph. His novels have to be read carefully to retain continuity  due to the abundance of participants and the abrupt changes in pace, venue  &amp; time. The end of the Cold War left Le Carre without a natural theatre  for his pragmatic exigencies to beat down moral principle. His people in  previous books tended to be minor functionaries, acting out of habit, in  the exhausted codices and machinery of the Cold War. Bleak Kafka like  landscapes such as Berlin acted as a backdrop to roles in which meaning and  nobility had long since been lost. The gangster barons of economically  ruined Russia and the errant knights of Merchant Banking have replaced his  Cold War operatives with cool aplomb but perhaps a less clinical austerity.  The moral issues of the Free Market become equally vague and malleable in  the over all scheme of things. The manners, intrigues and betrayals of  family now replace that of state and ideology. MI5 and MI6 are replaced  with agents of the Foreign Office &amp; Customs Service to provide the de  rigueur bureaucratic intricacies. A great cast of characters, well  developed, and the irrepressible Le Carre knack for cynical panache  presents itself. Women are sprinkled in as mystical sexual icon or Amazon  princess. I rated this book as a 4 (i'd rate it 4.4975 if this were  allowed!), however, the author is an acquired and peculiar taste and I'm  sure many  die hard Le Carre afficionados will have no problem giving full  marks to his new incarnation.	1999-06-22
US	52527103	R1GEMS2K2BHK7Q	0385074077	236471423	Complete Stories and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	31	37	N	N	IIlimitable Dominion of American Literature	Having never written a full novel, Poe is sometimes forgotten when the great fiction writers of American history are listed. The power of Poe's dark vision, though, is virtually unprecedented in world literature. The  manifestation of such deep, intuitive symbols and archetypes, ones of such  clarity, prophesy and terror that even his incredible craftsmanship in  language becomes transparant, is a gift given to only the most blessed and  tormented of writers. To read a story like the Masque of the Red Death is  to be flung into an allegorical morality play which fits perfectly into the  modern context. Poe's stories and poems travel through time and rap  ceaselessy on the window of your conscious thoughts. An ominous pall of  expectation and retribution permeates all of his work. To pick up Poe is  really never to put it down.	1999-06-15
US	52527103	RB29PI5FUY8AJ	039304632X	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Unique and Engaging Book of RetroAdventure	Although I wouldn't characterize Barrett as having especially powerful character development, there is something very evocative and lyrical in her writing. Something that transmits a sense of crystalline sensuality and  translucent imagery of the arctic and the sea. Her style is a bit  disconcerting, like Jane Austen meets Herman Melville. This unique author  has carved out a writing niche with in  the 19th Century Victorian  novelistic style, and lure of the sea,  the call to adventure and the quest  to explore in the interests of science which propelled popular passions  in  those times. Those passions have cooled but Voyage of the Narwhal recasts  its own spell on the receptive reader. This author is one to watch, her  best work is ahead of her.	1999-06-12
US	52527103	R13X41SWPNF1GA	1578870003	608108158	Doesn't Anyone Blush Anymore?	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Obscure and profound wisdom	Reading Thomas Cahill's 'the Gifts of the Jews' got me reading some texts of Judaic wisdom recently, including this one, although this is not primarily a theological work. Friedman, a Rabbi in the Orthodox Lubavitch  movement of Judaism has written this book for the general audience. This  book offers much to the general reader. Friedman's gentle wit and wisdom  seem to come from distant and deep understandings of the human condition.  His instruction is both practical and attainable. It is presented in a down  to earth, contemporary and often very humorous way. Although some of the  advice might be specific to Judaism (illuminating in itself), much or most  of it is universal.  It provides and understanding of responsibility and  attitude in marriage, life and devotion. A great guide for the perplexed of  any faiths.	1999-06-07
US	52527103	R14J2J0YUZZYEF	067801454X	129046577	The National System of Political Economy (Reprints of Economic Classics)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	One of World's Most  Important  Unread Books.	This book is very hard to find now. If you come by it in a large academic library you might note that it hasn't been checked out in a couple of decades or more. It is in fact the first, and probably still the most  powerful, challenge to  Adam Smith, David Ricardo and colleagues who  developed the tenets and assumptions of the Free Trade, Laissez-Faire  movement,  starting in 1776 with Smith's 'The Wealth of Nations'. Published  in the 1840's, it comprehensively compares national systems which promote  industrial and agricultural development through tariffs and government  support, notably the German and American systems, with the British colonial  system of unrestricted Free Trade. It is a powerful indictment of the  underlying motives and effects of the colonial system. The book has gone  into extreme disfavour and total exclusion from college curriculums as  these have gravitated to roles of corporate apologists or to reactions of  Marxist and post structural ideology. It cogently presents, however, the  argument against the world wide movement to limit economic sovereignty of  nation states, and paints a grim picture of the inevitable result of  unrestrained Free Markets, notably in the experience of British workers  during the Industrial Revolution. The experience of the early to mid 19th  Century, where these competing systems could be seen in very pure form by  comparing the American and the British models, presents a compelling case  for the National System List describes. Our current economic leaders do not  want you to read this book, even as the leaks in Globalism start to bust  down its dikes and even with a growing body of contrary modern opinion as  to the benefit of Free Markets. If you read the 'Wealth of Nations' (or  even better Ricardo's theories of Comparative Advantage.. free of Smith's  distracting meditations on Moral Sentiments) do your self a favour and read  the National System of Political Economy as well and see whose arguments,  proven by human experience, win the day. It explains much of what is going  on in the world today and presents alternatives to our current path at this  critical point in history.y human experience, win the day. It explains much of what is going  on in the world today and presents alternatives to our current path at this  critical point in history.	1999-06-07
US	52527103	RU2O0OYS9FU22	0895263173	98073583	Betrayal : How the Clinton Administration Undermined American Security	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Written For Dollars. . Not For Truth	A shameful, poorly investigated book of allegations, innuendo, hearsay and an implicit hatred of Bill Clinton and his cothinkers for their brave stand against the neoconsertative menace to America. Read it, but do so  critically and realize it is part of an orchestrated attempt to undermine  American democracy and social equity.	1999-05-26
US	52527103	RXFD4QF09N6X4	038547542X	740144116	The Last Avant Garde: The making of the New York School of Poets	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Draw a Draft at 'the Five Spot'	Dave Lehman's prose courses like water.. or maybe good whiskey, (off)Beat? poetry and good friends.. in smoky,  seedy  bars rushing with youthful exuberance..  Lower Manhattan, circa 1952.  I read Tom Wolfe's 'the Painted  Word' recently. This  delightful lampoon of the New York Art 'Schools' of  the same period, hanging out with the same crowd, had made me wary of the  posturing and promotion which has characterized the industry of trendy art  in Gotham. This book is a good antidote for Wolfe's biting satire.  It is a  scholarly and critical meditation on the nature and role of poetry and the  poet at a time when the world at large has little time and patience for  them.  It does not preach or pander. Lehman's is an intelligent and  engaging study of  structure, meaning and motivation of this very low payed  profession. <br />What makes the New York School a real avant-garde or unique  from the Beats, for example, is still a mystery to me. The latter schism  seems to have been well established, though,  by the time of a drunken  confrontation between Kerouak, Ginsberg and the NYS at a poetry reading in  1959; when they squared off and accused each other of ruining American  poetry. There are all kinds of nifty  anecdotes in the book. Some of the  poems  are lovely or funny or profound..  even to the neophyte.. others  impenetrable. At the very least soak up the atmosphere.. good times,  alcohol,  experimental jazz, hipster jive, abstract expressionism, various  varieties of sex.. and most of all friendship is what 'school'  seems to  have been about. .. Fine Book!!	1999-05-23
US	52527103	R1TSFO1FJP6SO1	0374228787	848425539	The Painted Word	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Hilarious Lampoon of the New York 'Schools' of Art	Tom Wolfe turns his caustic wit and pen to the world of art in this social essay.  Specifically here he deals with the New York Schools of Pop Art and Abstract Expressionism. He reviews the scholarly  dissertations and criticism.. the deep and passionate evocation of the  intended meanings by painters and their champions.. the social context and  views of the public.. and has come to the conclusion.. that it's all  about.. promotion.. SELF Promotion. There is always a lot of tongue in  cheek truth in a Tom Wolfe work. A nod and a wink that these guys set  themselves up for it. But it's easy to lampoon a collection of hard  drinking painters who have come to the profound revelation that the guiding  principle to all art is that it should be FLAT. The Flatter the better,  judged as to its achievement of Flatness. Or a now famous article (in the  art world) in which a scholar decided that objects you found on your  supermarket shelf were in fact the cultures noblest expression of itself,  igniting a fierce struggle for supremacy with its predecessor. I like  Pollock, Johns, Liechtenstein and Warhol..  I don't try to understand them.  Their aesthetic qualities speak for themselves. But when the hangers on and  speculators on 'trends' start lauding ugliness as being a virtue, or as a  characteristic perceived only by the untrained eye, things start to get a  bit absurd. This funny little (art) treasure.. usually found in some garage  these days.. is Totally Charming.	1999-05-21
US	52527103	R2GK8CX5G466RD	0394421795	249792400	The Decline of the West, Vol. 1: Form and Actuality	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Challenging but Accessible.. with some effort	History ebbs and flows.  The illusion that we are somehow at the 'end of history' and that civil organization and values as they now stand are beyond history's broader and deeper currents might be the great popular  Myopia of our time. Spengler in this book has applied his voluminous  knowledge and interpretive skills to the rise and fall of civilizations.   Does the 'West' conform to the definition of a civilization in the age of  global communications and entertainment?  If so, are its prospects  different than those of its predecessors? Schools no longer prepare the  mainstream student for learning and argument at this level.  Spengler's  thesis hinges on the leading intellectual &amp; aesthetic edges of the last  1000 years of our culture as compared to those of civilizations of   antiquity, notably the Greco Roman. <br />There are scholarly contrasts to  Spengler's study.  William McNeill's 'Rise of the West' provides a direct  challenge to many of its conclusions. Gibbon's 'Decline and Fall of the  Roman Empire' or Werner Jaeger's 'Paedeia' (on Greek classical culture)  might be good comparative reference books, but these have now been  relegated in public familiarity to dusty and esoteric academic departments.  Spengler's work, however, falls squarely and uniquely  into the realm of a  great work of the Deist tradition of Western social philosophy, from which  its reputation for skepticism comes. Its apparent mysticism emanates from  the deep investigation into the intellectual attitude of the Western mind.  There are, of course, other traditions in the 'Western' mix which have  broad and predictive implications. This opus should not be misconstrued of  as a work of pessimism. Constructive action and faith are, in fact, its  basis for the prospect of vigorous and sustained regeneration of the human  cause.<br /> This is an exacting study.  It requires a critical attitude to  penetrate and to see that it has a fundamentally human and hopeful (and  debatable) message. Decline of the West does in fact provide drama,  grandeur, context and understanding to the sweep of history. It is  accessible, though, to the determined general reader and constitutes a  significant contribution to 20th Century thought. Those who do not learn  from history are bound to repeat it.	1999-05-11
US	52527103	R38C1TULP4EWKI	0394421795	249792400	The Decline of the West, Vol. 1: Form and Actuality	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A Classic for the Ages	Dr.  Spengler's book has gotten a bad rap. It's blamed for sending the blitzkrieg on its path of conquest or it's trivialized as an arcane and skeptical view of society without modern utility. It is fair to say it is a  highly speculative interpretation of history, which identifies an organic  psychology common to all members of a given civilization. It is not an  inbred archetype per se,  but an iterative internalization of the modes and  beliefs of a given culture which manifests itself in a civilization's  aesthetic forms and symbols. These abstract elements are the main topic of  this book. The book has been said to have been born of pessimism, but this  too is bad rap. The fact that all epochs have their birth, golden ages and  decline has never really been in dispute. The sheer precision by which  Spengler has articulated the nature and characteristics of any given period  in the life of a culture, and, has anticipated the paths of modern physics  and modern arts can be disconcerting. Each annihilation, however, has  instigated a rebirth of a new refreshed culture, operating at higher levels  of understanding and technology. This book was written in the late teens  and early twenties of this century, contemporaneously with those other  great speculative works of Freud and Jung.  It is in this illustrious  company that Spengler belongs. All have a different emphasis but their  subject is this peculiar and exotic mixture of history, literature,  society, psychology and philosophy. The fact that all these authors have  received a share of discredit in the latter part of the century in no way  limiting to the intellectual force, profound effect and importance these  books have.. to our civilization.	1999-05-08
US	52527103	R1S5MALMXQ1SCL	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Medium Rare with Peppercorns	Wolfe has written a brave book. He must have anticipated the criticism he would receive by methodically cutting up sacred cows and serving up delectable T Bones. Politics, ambition, American culture, southern manners,  literary style and Charlie Croker all go under the knife. Like it or not  you don't produce a great book by playing it safe or following the rules.	1999-05-03
US	52527103	R2R5WT05X1NX9N	0374525811	950029887	Birthday Letters: Poems	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Letters to a Distant Present	Ted Hughes, in an essay, said Sylvia Plath's poetry is to his own as knitting a quilt is to a cat pulling on spool of yarn. The statement referred to the creative process as well as the literary construction. The  differences are more elemental than this. Ted Hughes' poetry, at it's best,  is underground, tectonic and molten; it's propelled by images of Fermi's  incubus, cobalt,  radioactive lava streaked through with cordite. It is  wilderness, and,  angry gods. Sylvia Plath's poetry is all craggy shore,  whirlpools, mists and grassland, and, a transcendent and implicit Queen of  Heaven.  It was only the deathly morphology of Ariel which brought the out  specter of the antiMadonna to the light of day. A better sense of Hughes  poetic skills is perhaps available in his (also Whitbread prize winning)  'Tales of Ovid'. The weight and challenge of responding to his critics  (through Sylvia?) seems to have hollowed some, but not all,  of  the  natural exuberance and violence in his work.  These are ,after all, love  letters. The craft and effectiveness is still very much in evidence here.  It is fair, at least,  to acknowledge that this rough, dark rock orbiting  the celestial sphere is one of massive gravity.	1999-04-24
US	52527103	R21WQG13RQS9VB	0679751408	616050290	The Silent Woman: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Plath as seen in the mirror of her biographers	I doubt any other literary figure this century has drawn as much passion, pathos and curiosity as has Sylvia Plath. The artist dying young, by design or misadventure, is not a rarity in our era. The Plath story, though, has  taken on political and ontological clothing out of any proportion to her  brilliant but small, significant but  highly subjective, contribution to  the literary canon. The development of the legend has outpaced an  understanding of her place in the scheme of poetic things. Malcolm tries to  penetrate the atmospheres surrounding Plath by taking one step back and  looking at the relationship of her biographers to the still living  participants in Plath's life and death. At the level of a guide to the  prospective biographer it is a cautionary tale of the (perhaps futile)  attempt to find objectivity and consensus amongst the emotional detritus of  a tragically shortened life. A labrynthe of intrigue, jealousies,  speculation, antipathy and ulterior motives actuates the Plath  'biographical community'. For this alone it is well worth the read. At the  level of actually sorting out the real Sylvia Plath,  I cannot say I am any  more enlightened. It is really her husband Ted Hughes who has become an  object of derision or the victim of harrasment if not the subject of these  biographies. Everything is implicitly in the Hughes camp or fighting the  Hughes camp as to historical legacy and responsibility. Unfair but  inevitable to Hughes, for this melodrama has been caught up in the swirl of  post structural ethics. It might be too early to try this type of exercise.  Perhaps someone can work constructively with the contradictions of this  story through the clarifying mists of time. The recent biography of  Coleridge by Richard Holmes is a reliable companion to his poetry, 200  years on. For Sylvia Plath, all we still really have in agreement at this  point is her work (Ariel most remarkably) and that of Ted Hughes on Plath  (Birthday Letters specifically) with which to define the drama and literary  credibility of her life. That might be enough in the interim.	1999-04-20
US	52527103	R2MRWCESVTAAZX	0140088911	394767391	Money	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A high water mark for Britain's literary bad boy	John Self's life is out of control. His  Fiasco is on the blink, his movie plans sabotaged by a zoological conspiracy, his sock has rent due. It's money that's the root of the problem, at least after you over look constant  inebriation and an obsession with pornography. Amis's punk poetry/novel is  a must read of the dissolute, self involved, chaotic world of the 80's  yuppies.	1999-04-15
US	52527103	R2KT1AF470988S	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rollicking Good Fun	There's more generalized hubris in this book than Moby Dick, more twists and turns than a trip down the Mississippi with Huck Finn. Like most great books 'A Man in Full' can be taken at several levels. In this case as a  cautionary tale of modern life, a classics inspired allegory of pride and  recompense or perhaps as a satirical lampoon of the great American success  story (including the great American novel). Which ever of these ways you  take it you will enjoy the rich descriptive essays and humour of life in  the 1990's. If you're the type who goes into paroxysms of self righteous  indignation at anything resembling political incorrectness or less than  subtle characterizations of life and frailty in our modern world stay away  from this book. Tom Wolfe has a steel tipped harpoon aimed directly at you.	1999-04-03
US	52527103	R3067LVA74EC4I	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tom Wolfe's Books Buzz with Energy	Tom Wolfe's scanning, tunneling vision and rye humour has targeted  the cultural landscape for four decades now. ' A Man in Full' cuts a broad swath through America of the 1990's. It uses the same template as his novel  of a decade ago, 'Bonfire of the Vanities'.  A rainbow of American success  stories in progress converge into an irreconcilable destiny. Something must  give and does. The motivating ideal of the protagonist here is a more  primal force, however. The self made 'Southern Man', this 'noble'  anachronism, as opposed to the insipid Wall Street Yuppie of Bonfire. The  social forces on which the characters ride are more elemental, a clash of  plate tectonics on a molten core of hubris. There's little subtlety in  Wolfe's symbolisms or descriptions of the shallow pretensions in this  cultural wasteland.<br /> I am keenly  aware when I read Wolfe that I am not  reading literature. This is sheer indulgence! This is a soap opera. Finely  and skillfully wrought, no doubt, but still a social circus of over bred  egos and under bred moral sense. 'A Man in Full's' characters are brought  to the material abyss through pride, lust, avarice and envy. These are  surface dwellers, arrivistes without an appreciation of proportion and self  restraint. They seek nothing deeper or more meaningful in their lives than  an escalation up another rung on the social ladder. It's hard to like most  of these people but dramatic personalities of this type are not made to be  likable. It can still be a little overwrought at times. There is no stasis  in Tom Wolfe's work, no get along and go along. All the protagonists are  gladiators in the forum, everyone has an agenda, which leads to raucous,  hilarious and even heroic results when put in the context of an elegant  gallery benefit, a thoroughbred stud session, or a violent prison  pod.<br />The sustaining philosophical undercurrent here is the Stoic creed of  Epictetus.  It is a philosophy of resolve and assertion of self dignityin  the face of persecution, humiliation and defeat. It is the actualisation of  this essential man which Wolfe uses  as a contrast to the material and  social accouterments by which Charles Croker and company have defined  themselves. The episode of palpable terror and self affirmation in the  prison pod is as powerful as anything written in contemporary fiction<br />If  there is a problem with this book, it's that it's finely honed characters  and situations and it's excellent writing are thread  together by a  somewhat tenuous and implausible story line. Sometimes it seems as though  Wolfe threw it together as  an afterthought to frame his comic, social and  character essays, of which he is the modern master.  I wrestled with giving  it four stars on this basis, but the compensating strengths are too  compelling. <br /> I'm not sure quite what to make of the ending. As usual  Wolfe ties up all the loose ends in an epilogue which can leave you  wondering 'what's the point?'. To Wolfe's credit he does not provide happy  endings or poetic justice. Charlie Croker and Sherman McCoy are joined at a  point when their 'tragic flaws' and superficiality are becoming dimly  evident even to themselves.  We leave them in the detritus of their  unraveled lives. The character's final dissolution is left unresolved. They  seem to become aware of an inner self, though,  brought to a point where  they might even be developing some character. Something only they need  understand. The rest of the world goes along merrily as if none of this had  happened.<br /> When I finish a book like this I feel like I've been to a  feast where I've indulged myself a bit too much. In 100 years Tom Wolfe  will be mainly of interest to social historians, as locked as his books are  to this day and age.  But on the off chance that they are studying Wolfe in  lit classes, 'A Man in Full' should regarded as a masterpiece of   journalistic fiction.	1999-03-28
US	52527103	R202XMDPCDPIG2	0679747885	434246350	A Tour of the Calculus	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Engaging , Profound and Accessible	Education, in our modern world, separates the  reductive clarity and practicality of mathematics from the ambiguous hues and the flights of imagination of literature at a fairly early stage. You dedicate yourself to  one or the other. Berlinski, in this wonderful book, affirms that the  distinction is arbitrary and contrived. That the symbols of language and  equation can reinforce each other. That they can provide a synthesis of  philosophy, science and poetry. Literally and figuratively, Berlinski  succeeds in grand fashion. This is a book not to missed, regardless of  which path you have chosen.	1999-03-04
US	52527103	RWS7UH992AQX7	1888363894	241379899	Profit over People: Neoliberalism and Global Order	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Clear as a Bell	Chomsky's political leanings have always been libertarian socialist. This work on economics contains his usual crisp clear language in exposing the failure of our current economic paradigm to live up to the first principles  of economics; providing the greatest good for all people. Two of his bogey  men are prominent here. The media's ability to portray an illusionary sense  of well being &amp; security and the ability of organized capital to  inculcate meaningless economic axioms through psuedo intellectuals, such as  'employment depends on the short-run on aggregate demand within the  business cycle and in the long run on the level of the NAIRU.', as gospel   truth. This serves  to obfuscate and eliminate popular debate on a  pernicious economic agenda (globalism) which has produced deteriorating  social conditions in the first world and devastation in the second and  third worlds.. to the benefit of an ever diminishing minority, mainly those  associated with speculative activities. This is one of several books that  have come out recently showing that the current economic system is counter  productive to greatest good. It is, in fact, a system entering a profound  crisis as it's intentions and deceptions become increasingly apparent. It  will, however, be those people who have been made dependent on this weak  fabric of lies, now being torn asunder by global financial realities, who  will suffer most. As in most Chomsky works this book is clearer in it's  ability to characterise the villain that it's ability to define a solution.  Any attempt to show that the Global Emporer has no clothes, though, is to  be admired.	1999-02-27
US	52527103	R2CJYTHVX5CQT9	0471169803	490381572	Great Feuds in Science: Ten of the Liveliest Disputes Ever	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Light but entertaining science reading	This is good anecdotal collection of scientific diputes which could have been written as a series in a popular science magazine. Its emphasis is on the personalities involved in scientific disputes over the years, and a  general description of the nature of the debate. The book makes little  attempt to delve into the psychology of the scientific mind. Nor does it  try to pin to together a consistent philosophical basis underlying  scientific progress, paradigms and debates. You are left with a series of  vignettes of roughly 20 pages a piece, well written and entertaining, which  offer little penetration and cohesion into the 'nature' of scientific  conflict. As a quick survey of scientific progress and perhaps as a guide  to more in depth reading it is a good work, especially for the young reader	1999-01-08
US	52527103	R36B0UTZ0MHI1P	0960695400	476599912	Please Understand Me: Character and Temperament Types	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Know thyself.. and thereby know the world..	I ran into Keirsey accidentally last year, having over the years read much of Freud and Jung. There are both limitations and useful applications to Kiersey's development of 16 'standard' personality types. The compilation  is clearly a result of widescale sampling and extrapolation based on Jung's  development of 'components' of personality set out in his 'General  Classification of Personality Types'. The result is a highly practical  guide to looking at 'types' of personalities in relation to societal norms,  how they interrelate to society as a whole, what interests them  vocationally and avocationally; and how they view love, responsibility and  destiny. One should take out of it a sence of equilibrium of personality  both at a personal and the societal level. It is a very valuable tequnique  of seeing yourself in relation to others and in understanding other's  motivations. This book does not convey the deep introspection and intuition  of the writings of the fathers of psychological categorization and the  psyche's construction, which should be read by those interested the  subject, but it is an excellent way to look at one aspect of yourself and  the world around you.	1999-01-05
US	52527103	RV7BQMM4CGYDD	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Rich descriptions, little dramatic tension	I found Frazier's book a noteworthy read. It is a book of dense atmospherics and rich descriptive text. Cold Mountain maintains a strolling cadence through its descriptions of a slice of life, of lovers separated by  the Civil War. The plot is one of a Confederate deserter's travels home to  his Ada, who sustains herself with the survival wise Ruby on a farm on Cold  Mountain. Along this slim narrative plot are hung espisodes of experience  and memory.  Its characters are indistinctly drawn, and at times seem  inseparable and defined by  the land and events they travel through. A  deeply impressionistic novel, much like the school of painting, its colours  and characters blend into a panorama which are externally perceived, and  offer no hard edges or  specific high lights in presentation. The gaze is  called to the whole and not to the elements of the construction.  No depth  of penetration into the subjects psyches is offered  beyond their interplay  with the methodical progress of it's theme. Frazier, however, has a talent  for descriptive imagery and savor. The story is a simple one of separation  and struggle for reunion. If one allows one's self  to be drawn into the  mists and mysterious magnetic force of Cold Mountain, which juxtaposes  itself against the battlefields  and landscapes of civil war America  one  senses  cruel the ironies of war are being explored. It does not surprise  me that there are such polarities in views for this novel, it must be read  as it is written, its pleasures are in the meditation of it's mysteries   and depths of descriptions rather than its characters or plot.	1998-12-21
US	52527103	R2E9LVPZC2RTJU	0060909005	530217243	The Collected Poems	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A not to be missed collection of this great poet.	Sylvia Plath's poetry ranges from exuberant to searingly painful. Ted Hughes, her husband and one of formost poets and critics in the English language, has done a masterful job in designing this collection and adding  editorial explications. Sylvia Plath's  poetry has been, at times, usurped  by feminist ideologues for purposes it was not intended for. It stands in  it's own right, though, as the primarily autobiographical story of a young  woman's struggles and triumphs, written with clarity and brilliance. Plath  is one of the formost American poets of the century, and regardless of what  some fuddy duddy over intellectualized critics might say of her work, it is  a joy and often a sorrow to read.	1998-11-19
US	52527103	R25K8J28HLBY0I	0060909005	124176304	The Collected Poems	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Plath is great!!	The largely autobrioghical work of Plath is a major literary addition the canon of female, New England and American poetic traditions. She is truly one of the great American poets of this century, regardless what over  intellectualized critics might find to fuss about. It's unfortunate that  her work has been somewhat kidnapped by feminist ideologues, who have used  it to promote a political agenda it was never intended for. Primary tactic  among this is the demonization of Ted Hughes, her husband and poet laureate  of Britain (he died recently of cancer), whose brilliant body of work in  poetry, children's books, translations of classics and social &amp;  literary commentary might be unmatched by any writer in English this  century. Plath's beautiful, poignant sometimes searing poetry stands tall  in it's own write, well above the political affectations lesser readers  might want to put on it.	1998-11-11
US	52527103	R1D6ZCD8K33HCV	0745189156	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thornton Wilder's wonderful classic	I, as with some of the following reviewers, am a little surprised this  beautifully wrought little treasure left some readers cold. The book was  amongst the '100' best of the century chosen by the Modern Library a while  back, and it well deserves the honour. Don't expect a lot of sexy hijinks  or melodrama. It's a simple slice of life about an arcane tragedy in Peru  in 1714. It's a novel which will stay with me for a lifetime.	1998-10-25
US	52527103	R3OVFKPR96C0E6	0385238800	987047323	Lyndon Larouche and the New American Fascism	Books	1	6	17	N	N	Poorly written	Having taken some objective interest in the writings of Larouche in the early 90's, I know how completely distorted and dishonest this book is. You can argue with reason for or against many of Larouche's platforms on political economy. This book makes no attempt to do so. You can certainly take exception to Larouche's conspiracy theories, but his predictions of global financial chaos seem oddly prescient in 1998. Anybody seeking a sound understanding of Larouche should read some his economic and philosophical works, before passing judgement based a trashy rant like this.	1998-08-28
US	52527103	R234LAN53ZKMCG	0375701044	306877497	Personal History	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A good read and tour of 20th century America	I nearly gave this book a pass because of it's length. I'm of the opinion  that for reasons of humility and economy no autobiography should exceed 400  pages. That said, this is a rewarding read. Graham writes with grace and  wit of a complex life. One which began at the tail end of New York's gilded  age and threaded it's way through the great epoches and events of the  American century. She was not a great molder of those events, although her  position as Publisher of the Washington Post was not without  influence.  Graham does, however, have insight and  perception of the many great  personalities, in all realms of human endeavor, which passed through her  life. Circumstance and privilege gave her a box seat to history, personal  tragedy and turbulence gave her an inner awareness of the human dimension  of those events. This is a fine biography of a woman whose uncompromising  style stamped it's mark on the American newspaper business, a notoriously  masculine endeavor. The four stars are a reflection of my feeling that book  could have profited from a more forceful editor. It's well worth the  effort, however,  and should be considered a must for all students of  American political and social history of the 20th century.	1998-08-22
US	52527103	R2AUYOS42T7BLJ	0393317609	672932782	Paul: The Mind of the Apostle	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A thought provoking study of an immense personality	I was rather surprised by the variety of reviews to this engaging book on  Paul. Part the problem  rests with the title,'Paul, the Mind of the  Apostle', which might have led some to assume this was a devotional or  theological work. This is, in fact, a historical biography. Wilson brings a  historian's detachment from matters of doctrine or faith and focuses on the  temporal man, his work and his age. He paints a rich tapestry of the Pax  Romana and the various religious 'cults' which populated it. In some cases  his  'spin' is decidedly modern and secular.  Given both the constraints  and potential of this perspective, this book provides a valuable resource  for true believers and skeptics alike of a man who's influence on Western  thought and society is incalculable.	1998-08-14
US	52527103	R2US43ARA7GXZO	0312136250	488784449	Winter Pollen: Occasional Prose	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Challenging and Rewarding  group of essays	I came to Ted Hughes through the work of Sylvia Plath. I cannot profess to be huge fan of his poetry, although it clearly has a thread of brilliance through it. His essays, however are truly illuminating. I'm not sure if there is another English language critic today who can bore so deeply into the essence of his subject, look at it from so many angles and levels, and, place it in so many contexts. His interests are universal but his gaze is most acute when looking into the psycho drama of literary creation. This book, covering a selection of every period of his career provides the reader with new insights into reading he might have already covered as well as a wealth of new material. Some selections rank with T S Eliot's 'Sacred Wood' as some of the century's most profound literary criticism.	1998-08-06
US	52527103	R25R5Z3ORP1VTO	0385493916	490903278	The Journals of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Required reading for Sylvia Plath admirers.	Plath's journals covers the period from her time at Smith college, through Cambridge and marriage to Ted Hughes and provides insights into the formation of her poetry. She seems to have used the journal as a testing ground for her poetic idealism. The book stands in stark contrast to her novel 'The Bell Jar' which provides a chilling, anticeptic disassociated account of a mental breakdown. The journal is much more personal, lively and chaotic.  It provides an invaluable context to Sylvia Plath's work and is highly recommended.	1998-08-05
