US	52525147	R3V9ORZZCSRYGS	1560983205	755449996	Admiral William A. Moffett: Architect of Naval Aviation (Smithsonian History of Aviation and Spaceflight Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding biography of Naval Aviation's Architect	William F. Trimble's Smithsonian History of Aviation Series biography &quot;Admiral William A. Moffett:  Architect of Naval Aviation&quot; is an outstanding work about the father of American Naval Aviation.<br />Trimble paints a clear picture of Moffett as a dynamic man of distinct vision, great patience, and remarkable talent who clearly discerned the basic philosophical and organizational ideas necessary to make aviation a part of the fleet.  He may have been less clear on some details of the technology, but his broad-ranging vision of the future impact of aviation on navies was completely correct.<br />Trimble treats the dispute between Billy Mitchell and William Moffett as diplomatically as Moffett did, but no less finally.  Nor does Trimble shirk from cataloging Moffett's numerous political battles within and without the Navy to establish Naval Aviation.  He also clearly details the admiral's dealings with the many and sundry personalities that impacted his quest to establish aviation in the Navy.<br />One remarkable fact that comes out is that Moffett was a battleship captain before he became a champion of aviation.  Also conspicuously absent in this work is any real finger-pointing at a supposed cabal of &quot;battleship admirals&quot; reputed by legend to have stymied the growth of Naval Aviation.  Instead one finds a trail of Congressional penury, and bureaucratic in-fighting, almost none of which spoke to or even disputed the military value of Naval Aviation, much less cast it in opposition to the battleship.<br />What Trimble brings out is that the early &quot;opposition&quot; to Naval Aviation had almost everything to do with a bureaucratic &quot;turf war&quot; between Moffett's new Bureau of Aviation and the Bureau of Navigation (later called the Bureau of Personnel).  The other--&quot;material&quot;--Bureaus bowed out with relative good grace once the technical necessity of BuAer became clear and they grudgingly surrendered control of their shares of the budgetary pie and personnel necessary to develop aviation as a weapon for the fleet.  However, BuNav launched a bitter campaign to retain its prerogatives respecting its ability to control personnel assignments and pay.<br />That battle was still underway when Moffett was killed in the crash of the airship USS Akron, and it was left up to others such as Ernest King and John Towers to continue the fight.  <br />That Moffett was lost in an airship accident is viewed by many as poetic, given his championing of the technology of rigid airships.  Ironically, Moffett was not so uniquely or rosily linked to this nascent aviation technology as legend would have it.  He pressed every aspect of aviation technology in the Navy, including float planes, sea planes, catapults,  and carrier aircraft as well as rigid and non-rigid airships.  At the time of his loss aboard Akron, Moffett had been entertaining serious doubts about the effectiveness of airships and pressing the Akron's commanders hard to demonstrate the worth of such expensive vehicles.  Clearly, Moffett's support of airships was neither unthinking nor unwavering.  His devotion to evaluating any promising technology was, however, total, so he wasn't going to axe rigid airships without good cause.<br />Beyond his foresight of what aviation could bring to the Navy,  and his superb political and organizational skills, Moffett was most importantly a leader.  His ability to quiet radical air power advocates in the Navy's own ranks and persuade non-aviators in the fleet of aviation's future importance were instrumental in winning the battle against Billy Mitchell's idea of a unified Air Force controlling all military aircraft ashore and at sea.  Had Navy non-aviators been unconvinced of aviation's future utility, they might happily have given up such an expensive burden; had Congress perceived great dissention and support of a unified Air Force in Naval Aviation ranks, it might have mandated Mitchell's approach.<br />Thetrue measure of Moffett's skill with people was the adroit high-wire act he managed, suspended between traditional naval officers who abhored political activity by officers on one side and the highly charged Mitchell-led air power lobbyists on the other.  Despite muttering and outrage on his obviously political activity from within the Navy, and often intemperate attacks by the air power lobby from without, Moffett befriended, wrote to and influenced numerous politicians, industrialists and socialites.  On many occasions the intervention of Moffett's bevy of friends proved crucial in the political battles raging around Naval Aviation.<br />The man who became this leader is also revealed by Trimble's writing, but what becomes apparent is that first, foremost and always, William Moffett was a naval officer.  That was the consuming task of his life, and when he discovered aviation it too became central to who he was and what he did.<br />It is abundantly clear from Trimble's writing the magnitude of the loss the Navy and the nation suffered 20 minutes into 4 April 1933.	2001-11-23
US	52525147	R14BJ5E0NGOX0E	0304358843	35933029	Pearl Harbor	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Lavish and useful with minor flaws.	H.P. Willmott's \\"Pearl Harbor\\" is for the most part a lavish, clear-headed and distilled view of the many aspects of the attack on Pearl Harbor.  It is marred only by the limitations of the author's expertise and some peculiarly low-quality art-work selections.    Where this volume is of tremendous value is its examination of the air organization and materiel of the attack.  This is an area where Willmott and his co-authors have amassed a singular degree of detail, much of which is compiled in a wonderful series of appendices.  This material particularly concerns the composition of the Japanese air groups and the targets they attacked.    Willmott also provides some concise, but extraordinarily cogent examinations of the controversies surrounding a potential follow-up strike by the Japanese and the conspiracy-theory obscured issues of what information was available to U.S. commanders, leaders and intelligence services.  These both deserve careful reading.    Where this work falters is in the details of the damage done to the ships, and the too-ready acceptance of a questionable new theory.  The details of the damage have been available for years in the shape of Homer Wallin's account of the salvage work, and the recent reconstructive work of John De Virgilio and his associates, so this oversight is surprising.  The count of bomb hits on the Nevada is wrong, and the idea that torpedoes struck the Arizona has been discredited for years.    While Willmott appears to have missed those facts, he has all but swallowed a recent (and highly questionable) analysis of a photograph purporting to show one of the mini-submarines launched by the Japanese torpedoing two of the battleships.  The impression one is left with is that Willmott and his co-authors were primarily concerned with the air aspects of the attack and neglected the surface and surbmarine elements, leading to detail errors about the hits obtained and damage suffered, and the efficacy of the mini-sub attack.    Although the book contains many lavish and large renderings of well-known photographs and several very nice charts, it also features some crude illustrations that were obviously computer generated.  Some of the luster of a detailed illustration of the flight paths of the attacking aircraft is lost when those aircraft look like balsa toy gliders with two-dimensional fuselages.  A detail of the harbor suffers massively when the ships are represented by rude, boxy renderings with no resemblance to the ships themselves.  A diagram of the torpedo attack in profile is thoroughly marred by contrived head-on images that again are not those of the battleships themselves and would also only be correct for a torpedo attack against the ships' starboard sides.    Regardless of its--for the most part--minor flaws, this is a book well worth reading for what it does right.	2001-11-23
US	52525147	R30E3JFHYPHH2B	1560989491	291775532	Hap Arnold and the Evolution of American Airpower (Smithsonian History of Aviation Series)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Excellent, but incomplete.	Dik Alan Daso's &quot;Hap Arnold and the Evolution of American Air Power&quot; of the Smithsonian History of Aviation Series is an incomplete, if interesting and well-written volume about a unique and visionary man.<br />Daso's book is an intimate look at General of the Army Henry Arnold from birth up until about 1939.  At that point the work becomes distinctly sketchy and leaves out a number of incidents documented in other works, or treats them very lightly.  These include several controversies that involved Arnold.<br />It may be that Daso considered the story delineated in his sub-title did not require treatment of these topics, or that he is too close to his subject.  A review by Overy describes the volume as a &quot;sympathetic biography&quot; and one is led to wonder if, out of admiration, Daso tread a little bit lightly around a few issues.<br />With respect to his treatment of Arnold outside the years of 1939-1945, Daso's is an excellent and readable biography that provides such human detail as to make Hap Arnold live again for the reader.  Through Daso's writing Arnold becomes someone you might know and sympathize with, and admire.  There is little to criticize in this portion of the effort.<br />Unfortunately, the gross lack of detail during the period of World War II greatly diminishes the value of this volume as anything more than a personal biography.  Daso's failure to treat this period in detail leaves gaping voids for any to evaluate where Hap Arnold really stood on a number of the great controversies surrounding the air war.  Other than a few sentences here and there which seem to treat these matters as foregone conclusions worthy of little or no attention, they go unremarked upon.<br />Thus there is little examination of Arnold's interaction with the other members of the Army Staff, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Combined Chiefs of Staff, Presidents Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman, Secretary of War Henry Stimson and Harry Hopkins.  Daso describes a number of actions that have implications about how Arnold felt about &quot;precision daylight bombing&quot; but the issue is never clearly examined in its military or moral facets.  It is mentioned that Arnold opposed the use of the atomic bomb, but not why.  The dispute over the Lend-Lease contracts for Britain depleting stocks for the Army Air Force which landed Arnold in hot water with Roosevelt is treated so lightly as to almost constitute a whitewash.<br />Daso also fails to shine where his appreciation of certain strategic issues of World War II shows through, particularly regarding the Battle of the Atlantic.  From Daso's writing it would seem that this was won offhandedly and primarily by the Army Air Force and due to Arnold's inititative.  This highly slanted image is far from accurate.  It is also unsurprising, as Daso is a United States Air Force officer and a fighter pilot and not primarily interested in naval matters.<br />His grasp of the relationship Arnold enjoyed with scientists is, however, exceptional and entirely expected given that he is also the author of &quot;Architects of American Air Supremacy:  General Hap Arnold and Dr. Theodore von Karman.&quot;  Details of Arnold's dealings with academia and industry explain a great many minor mysteries in the development of aircraft as weapons and the air industry as a whole.  Just one is that a relatively minor company like Bell should have been the one to produce the first U.S. jet.  When one knows the project was personally handed to Larry Bell by Hap Arnold, it explains much.  Also interesting is the role Arnold played in the birth of the thinktank Rand Corporation.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book recommended for anyone interested in learning about who Hap Arnold was, and how the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces came to be the man he was.  But it is not recommended for anyone looking to examine high command issues and interactions in World War II.  A work that provides a brief synopsis of that period is an eight page entry in D. Clayton James' &quot;A Time for Giants:  The Politics of the American High Command in World War II.&quot;	2001-11-23
US	52525147	R2DFZXVV5LZ4HT	0870210238	459364147	Battleship Arizona: An Illustrated History	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Detailed and well-rounded.	Paul Stillwell's &quot;Battleship Arizona&quot; is a fine work devoted to the &quot;life and death&quot; of the ship which became the icon of Pearl Harbor.<br />The volume is particularly impressive and valuable for its extensive photo documentation and its stories of life and duty aboard the Arizona from keel-laying to partial scrapping and memorial construction.  For those interested in the &quot;human side&quot; of the story, these tales are right up their alley.  For those interested in the ship's configuration the photographs are remarkable.  Some are also extraordinarily artistic, such as one showing a sortie under the incomplete Golden Gate Bridge.<br />The details provided regarding the ship's loss are also particularly good.  Especially impressive are De Virgilio's elevation of the wreck immediately post attack and his overhead plot of the bomb hits and misses upon the Arizona and the Vestal.<br />The only real disappointment is the lack of a detailed &quot;anatomy&quot; of the ship in the form of deck plans, level by level within the ship, as completed and as modernized in the early 1930s.  Provision of such drawings, and an accompanying discussion using them might have shed useful light on some of the theories regarding exactly how Arizona's magazines were detonated by the bomb hit forward.<br />The technical details offered in the text, and recorded in the appendices are superb, and I was particularly impressed by the references to and correction of minor errors in another respected publication recorded therein.<br />As a reader who could generally care less for the &quot;human&quot; side of the story with respect to warship histories, being far more concerned with design, construction and operation, I am nonetheless considering purchasing this volume for my own collection.  It's that good.	2001-10-21
US	52525147	R37VBXTY1IIN48	1585671622	765323882	The Bomber War: The Allied Air Offensive Against Nazi Germany	Books	3	33	44	N	N	The Bomber War bombs.	Robin Neillands' &quot;The Bomber War&quot; is a book of limited value that plows old ground.  The author sets out to rehabilitate the memory of Arthur &quot;Bomber&quot; Harris, address the morality of the bombing campaigns waged in the Second World War and dispell myths.  In the end, he makes much ado about nothing new.<br />Respecting Harris, Neillands early on establishes that he did not initiate the &quot;area bombing&quot; campaign he is so well identified with and then commences what can only be called a whitewash campaign.  Neillands blithely ignores many indicators of the truth,--even those evident in his prized oral history --that paint a less  improved picture of Harris.  In the final reflection, Neillands reveals nothing new about Harris and ignores the real implications of a barely acknowledged ruthlessness and obstinacy.<br />Denis Richards' 1994 book (&quot;The Hardest Victory&quot;) did as much to dispell any evidence of Harris initiating the area bombing campaign and contains a much more realistic summation of Arthur &quot;Butch&quot; (short for &quot;Butcher&quot;) Harris' connection to area bombing:  &quot;...he became not only its chief executant but also--though always within the official channels--its most ardent, eloquent and obdurate champion.&quot;  Neillands's faint observation that Harris continued to hold on to &quot;the bomber dream&quot; does not describe Harris so well.  As for Harris's good qualities as a commander, those too were addressed by Richards seven years before.<br />Thus one is left to wonder if Harris' reputation needed, or deserved, rehabilitation.<br />Concerning the morality of the bombing campaigns, Neillands spills a tremendous amount of ink only to retrace the path of a multitude before him and conclude &quot;there was a war on.&quot;  While this is thoroughly true, it is hardly new or revealing.  Along the way, he disgraces his arguments by attempting to bolster the rationale for area bombing by essentially pointinga finger at the USAAF on behalf of the RAF and declaring &quot;you did it too&quot; largely as a result of systemic flaws that rendered the basic USAAF doctrine unworkable.<br />While his arguments are technically and militarily correct, they fall short morally (in the ETO).  Certainly both bomber forces (and the high commands that directed them) suffered an erosion of the ideals they initially entered the war with, but the RAF went much farther than the USAAF as a matter of policy in Europe.  The fact that imperfect practice on the part of the USAAF often amounted to the same thing as what was policy in the RAF fails to disguise the fact that the RAF was blatantly attacking cities with the intent of killing large sectors of their populations with relative indiscriminacy.<br />Neillands would have been more wise to mark the parallel decline in ideals between the two services that is evident if the bombing campaign against Japan is also taken into account on the USAAF side.  Instead, Neillands, like so many before, is at least partially blinded by the racial issue.  When one includes the USAAF experience in the PTO in the overall continuum, the decline in moral compunctions of the RAF and the USAAF is remarkably similar.<br />Neillands' conclusions that the bomber was available in insufficient numbers, hampered by weather and technically immature are quite correct.  So too is his conclusion that there &quot;was a war on.&quot;  These points simply required much less proof to make and did not require finger-pointing to do it. <br />This brings up Neillands's third purpose:  dispelling myths.  As nearly as I can tell, after studying this subject for a quarter of a century I'm at a loss to discern just where some of the myths he purports to identify hold sway.  In 25 years I have encountered no credible work that does not conclude the following:<BR>1) That the RAF deliberately targeted civilians as a de facto matter of policy that was not beyond the standards of the war being fought and arguably had a significant impact on German production, but not on morale;<BR>2) That the USAAF attempted to make the precision bombing doctrine work but was largely unable due to the weather, the initial lack of fighter escorts and the immaturity of the weapons system, with the result that its attacks wrought similar and often indiscriminate damage akin to RAF raids;<BR>3) That the USAAF fire bombing in Japan was every bit as ruthless and morally disappointing as what the RAF did to Hamburg and Dresden;<BR>4) That the RAF developed a small cadre of highly capable precision bombing units;<BR>5) That the bombing commands suffered a drain of resources to other fronts.<BR>6) That the fire bombing of Japanese cities was actually worse than the atomic bombings.<BR>None of this is new, or revealing, and given that it represents mainstream thought it hardly constitutes truth hidden behind the veil of myth.<br />Neillands also falls prey to a few myths and errors himself.  Henry Arnold was never actually taught to fly by either of the Wright brothers and the conclusion of the Pacific War had more to do with internal Japanese politics than the use of the atomic bombs. (had a very few things gone differently, Japan would not have surrendered on 15 August 1945).  So when it comes to myth-busting, Neillands is seven years late and $14.55 short (just comparing to Richards).<br />Even Neillands' avowed purpose of using oral history to ensure the veterans are heard before they pass is nothing new or unique.  Richards's book contains 33 pages of nothing but air crew quotes.  Richards's book also contains extensive appendices completely absent from Neillands's work.<br />Neillands's book comes off as old news.  It is RAF/Euro-centric and seeks to both absolve the RAF and damn the USAAF by association on the issue of area bombing.  It was not necessary to spend 406 pages reaching the same conclusions as those who have gone before.  Richards's 363 pages are much more informative.	2001-10-20
US	52525147	R25IL7EIUMN9II	0393020088	561667173	The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Short, sweet and to the point.	Richard Overy's &quot;The Battle of Britain:  The Myth and the Reality&quot; is a truly outstanding and supremely laconic volume.  In a mere 177 pages, Overy examines the image of the Battle of Britain as it has been passed down to us today and compares that image to long-available, but commonly widely-scattered facts.<br />One of Overy's major points centers on the perception of the battle and British public reaction to it.  We have been handed down an image of a unified, defiant Britain standing firm before the onslaught.  Overy reveals a divided, in some senses baffled and relatively numb British public which gave its Government cause for concern (and not a few flights of irrational fancy).<br />Of Churchill's famous speech about &quot;The Few&quot; Overy points out the reference was a small and offhand portion of a speech largely devoted to other matters which was not regarded as one of Churchill's better oratories at the time.<br />Overy also shows how selection of the parameters of the battle in terms of time and geography distort historical perception to reinforce the myth of Fighter Command being severely outnumbered.  He shows the British and German single-engine fighter counts (twin-engine fighters having been rapidly proven outclassed and irrelevant to the air superiority battle) started roughly even and subsequently diverged steadily in favor of the British.<br />Overy illustrates &quot;The Few&quot; were not so few in comparison to their equally few German opponents, and that the numbers of the British &quot;Few&quot; steadily rose through the battle, while those of the Luftwaffe steadily fell.<br />The idea that Fighter Command was nearly knocked about by attacks on its bases, is dispelled by the revelation of just how few British aircraft were destroyed on the ground, how light casualties on the ground were, and how quickly fields were restored to operation.  Overy also reveals that the hardest hit bases were actually forward bases to support the Battle of France, not bases integral to Fighter Command's Air Defense of Great Britain.<br />Overy also acknowledges the role of ULTRA in the Battle of Britain alongside that of radar, the Observer Corps and radio listening posts in the background of which it is often lost.<br />As for the role of the battle in preventing an invasion (Operation Sea Lion) Overy raises the important point that even had the Luftwaffe forced Fighter Command back from SE England, it lacked the range to keep pushing it back or to stop the Royal Navy from fatally interfering with any landing attempt.  Too many analyses of Sea Lion assume control of the air meant ipso facto control of the sea and forget that control of the air was merely a prelude to contesting control of the sea by air or surface forces.  The Luftwaffe's ability to stop a Royal Navy intervention against a German cross-Channel landing attempt was by no means certain, particularly after failing to stop the more-vulnerable Dunkirk exodus.<br />Overy's book is a quick, five-star, one-afternoon primer for serious students of the Battle of Britain's import.  It is not a detailed tactical description of dogfights.  Nor is it an effort at debunking everything known about the Battle of Britain.  Rather, it is a consolidation of facts usually brought out in isolation into a single coherent tapestry that reveals a somewhat different picture than we're used to seeing.<br />And despite substantial myth-busting, Overy's conclusion is that the Battle of Britain was a seminal moment in the war...if not in the way and for the reasons we have commonly believed.  I highly recommend this very mature and realistic look at the Battle of Britain.	2001-08-07
US	52525147	RKQ1ONDOZ3N14	0060196769	270759759	The Myth of the Great  War : A New Military History of World War 1	Books	4	25	37	N	N	A new line for further inquiry.	John Mosier advances an interesting, compelling and--certainly to British and French partisans--heretical thesis regarding the Great War, later called World War I.  By taking a hard look at the timing of events, the actual lay of the terrain, important operational documents, and properly circumscribed casualty figures, Mosier comes to the conclusion that the accepted history of the war is a fundamental distortion of the truth.<br />He repeatedly shows how the British and French general staffs (and historians) manipulated the dates and facts of battles to create, for propaganda purposes and to deceive their own governments, artificial victories.  Techniques included declaring a battle to have ended at the high point of an Allied advance, conveniently ignoring German counter-attacks that retook the ground seized; declaring entire terrain features secured when only a small and useless portion of them held; comparing Allied casualty figures for a particular battle to German casualty figures for the entire Western Front; and deliberating falsifying the extent of ground lost or held.<br />Mosier shows a repeated pattern of the Germans anticipating British and French attacks and executing strategic withdrawals followed by counter-attacks as a deliberate policy to minimize their casualties and maximize those of their enemies.  This policy is borne out in German planning documents as intentional and not accidental or circumstantial.  He similarly details unconventional interpretations of the German command changes that are more consistent with military reality.  He also illustrates a pattern of stubborn unimaginativeness and abysmal intelligence work on the part of British and French high commanders that coupled to produce a pattern of self-deception as to the Germans' military situation versus their own and outward deception toward their civilian masters.<br />Although British and French partisans will undoubtedly cry &quot;Foul!&quot; and raise objections, Mosier is not unfair in his presentation, also raising instances in which the German General Staff performed poorly at various points and allowing as the British and French commanders may have honestly believed their own press releases to an extent.  But the pattern of distortions exposed is consistent and certainly enough to warrant further investigation into his thesis.  There's definitely something here.<br />There's also something to Mosier's presentation of the American impact on the war.  He cuts to the chase and in two short chapters knocks the underpinnings out of some cherished myths about American performance and circumstances.  Much has been made of the American reliance upon French artillery as a factor diminishing the American effort.  Mosier points out the deliberate strategic decision that led to the American supply of the materials used in the manufacture of that artillery by the French for American use.  He also sweeps aside the hand-wringing about casualties sustained at Belleau Wood and again cuts to the chase, pointing out that unlike British and French infantry assaults unsupported by artillery and against positions the Germans chose to fight for rather than withdraw from and counter-attack, the American assault succeeded in the first instance, and then denied German attempts to retake the positions.  He illuminates Foch's intentional undercutting what would likely have been a successful American break-out from Saint-Mihiel to Metz by calling for an attack into the Argonne.  But Mosier brings out that despite slow and difficult going and increased casualties, the Americans successfully pushed through the Argonne against the Germans' attempt to hold it.  At the same time, the British and the French were suffering higher casualties merely pursuing the orderly retreat of the Germans into Belgium where they were not forced to make attacks into determined resistance in bad terrain.  Mosier also brings out a distinct contrast in the qualifications and experience forhigh command of Pershing with respect to British and French commanders.  He also shows evidence of a much more perceptive American intelligence organization that, unlike the British and the French, correctly interpreted the Germans' situation and intentions.<br />Again, Mosier is not unfair, properly pointing out the important role of the French and Petain in providing the Americans with the training crucial to their success.<br />But clearly, something is counterfeit in the popular memory of this conflict.<br />Other interesting points brought out by Mosier include crucial differences in the type and number of artillery weapons employed by the two sides and the real meaning of German reorganization of their military formations around increased artillery and fewer infantry.  He also provides an illuminating discussion of the development of German tactical and strategic thought during the war, particularly respecting von Falkenhayn.  The importance of the Germans' de-emphasis of the rifle and adoption of the grenade and mortar is particularly important to understanding the comparative effectiveness of the different armies.  John Keegan's thesis that the tactical deficiencies of the British and French boiled down to a lack of effective communications technology begins to look like a very small and perhaps relatively insignificant piece of the puzzle when set against the paralysis of tactical and strategic thought in the British and the French armies.  The Germans were ahead of the power curve; the British and French behind it.<br />Mosier's work, almost a collection of brief articles, is certainly not of sufficient magnitude to cover the entire war, and indeed focuses 90% of its attention on the Western Front by design.  It also does not delve into myriad social and political factors within the combatants that make up the complete tapestry of the war.  There is certainly more to the story, and more that bears on the story, than Mosier has told.<br />However, one neednot be able to explain the weaving of the entire tapestry to point out a ravel coming undone and that is what Mosier has done.  There is something wrong with the way we have been taught about this war.  What remains to be determined is whether Mosier scored a bull's eye.  But even if he didn't, my military instinct says he is within his CEP.	2001-07-22
US	52525147	R1JLWM648FJKWZ	006019314X	108696261	Hirohito And The Making Of Modern Japan	Books	4	107	120	N	N	Revealing, but may stretch its point.	Herbert Bix's biography of Emperor Hirohito of Japan is an outstanding work, but it must be read with caution, a critical eye and an open mind.  The work is permeated with a sense of Bix's righteous indignation at Hirohito's escape from censure for his part in Japan's role in China and in the Second World War and this seems to color his judgment when facts grow thin and motivations are evaluated.<br />What Bix contributes to the historical record regarding Hirohito, the Japanese military, and Japan's wars is important and revealing.  In Western culture the term &quot;emperor&quot; connotes Rome with a sort of English royalty superimposed on it, a blend of the two greatest empires of the Western world.  What gets lost in this merger is the memory that the emperor in the Roman system enjoyed a godhead and that the empire was partly a theocracy.<br />Theocracy is a missing element in most evaluations of the seemingly insane strategic decisions that governed Japan's entry into, atrocities during, and conduct of World War II.  The blind faith that overrode rationality in upper echelons of the Army and Navy makes more sense in the light of the theocratic Shintoist emperor system.  Bound up with a system of belief in a state headed by a living god, the racist inhumanity of Japanese atrocities becomes more understandable, but not justifiable.  The willingness to &quot;die for the Emperor&quot; in banzai charges and kamikaze flights also becomes more clear.<br />But where Bix's work raises question marks is in his evaluation of Hirohito's role.  While Bix has unearthed an emperor who definitely had a hand in government and the fatal decisions that propelled Japan into war, and bore unacknowledged responsibility for those decisions, he has not necessarily proven Hirohito to be their animating force.  But that is the light in which Bix evaluates those missing elements of the record that call for speculation.<br />An alternative interpretation occurs which, while not going as far as Bix's evaluation, does not divorce Hirohito from his responsibility.  Where Bix sees Hirohito as an animating force in the actions of Japan's ruling elites and militarists, too often that animation comes in the form of ratifying faits accompli.  Too often intentions that Bix would have us believe were formed by Hirohito were initiated by others, sometimes without Hirohito's foreknowledge.  What occurs is that, perhaps, Hirohito did not hold the initiative in the Japanese government.<br />What becomes apparent in Bix's description of Hirohito's upbringing, personality and conduct, is that he was so insulated from reality that he never enjoyed an undistorted view of the world.  He was certainly not the disconnected figurehead who only stepped in at the last moment to save Japan from more atomic bombs and partition with the Soviets.  He was definitely active in charting Japan's course, but he did not necessarily hold the compass.<br />Bix would have us see Hirohito as the ultimate master of indirect rule, served by private intelligence systems to feed him the truth and manipulating all from behind the scenes in ways to make governmental decision appear to be the unanimous work of others presented to him only for his purely ceremonial rubber stamp.  But was this a mastermind at work, or a relatively intelligent but confused and uncertain man trying to keep his head above water in a political/religious system he nominally enjoyed power over, but in which his military routinely indulged in acts of grand insubordination, assassination and mutiny?  Japanese emperors had been deposed before, and while Hirohito nominally controlled the military, it obeyed when it chose and the ruling elites talked behind his back of the emperor's less than godlike bearing.<br />Had he been other than the awkward intellectual he was, Hirohito might well fit the role Bix casts for him, but his personality lacks the earmarks of a conqueror.  It does bear the earmarks of uncertainty, fear and reaction.  His actions are equally explainable as those of a man raised to be a god and generalissimo; who knew intellectually if not emotionally that he was neither; but was emotionally driven to fulfill those roles in all earnestness; attempting to survive in a cut-throat political system and becoming caught up in his role and his military's initial success to the ultimate detriment of himself and the nation.<br />Hirohito, while awkward of manner, was not stupid.  He did not lack for political or military talent, but was no genius in either field.  He did, after all, manage to survive, and in his circumstances that took considerable doing and the good fortune to be a useful symbol and tool to others in power, whether the Japanese elites, the Japanese military, or the American Occupation.  He was also far from blameless for what happened in his merely human efforts to fulfill a role in which a god would find success difficult.<br />Hirohito should have been forced to abdicate and confined for life to a Shinto monastery.  Japanese emperors had been forced into monastic retirement before and this would have been a suitable punishment for a man who abetted horrible crimes in an earnest attempt--later overtaken by hubris--to fulfill an unrealistic role he was raised and trained to from birth.  His brother Takamatsu should have been Regent for Akihito's seven years of remaining minority under the strict supervision of the Occupation, and Akihito's enthronement should have coincided with the peace treaty, the Occupation's end, and the ratification of a new Constitution reducing the monarchy to figurehead status.<br />Bix's frustration with the unrepentant emperor and the unindicted elites of Japan is palpable.  Perhaps had the Americans come as conquerors willing to destroy, vice avengers willing to rehabilitate, then there might have been some justice which might assuage Bix's understandable--but maybe unrealistic--moral outrage.<br />After all, can you condemn a man to death for his religious beliefs and for attempting to fulfill a delusion instilled in him from birth?  For the horrible crimes along his tragic path he can certainly be confined for life...but not hanged.	2001-07-17
US	52525147	R2P7RHVF0WDYVZ	0306810352	42969211	Pearl Harbor : Final Judgement	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Simple truths vice wild imaginings.	This book is misnamed, but otherwise an outstanding and essential work regrading the causes of and responsibility for the Pearl Harbor debacle.  It sinks outright the majority of the Pearl Harbor conspiracy theories, and destroys most of the supports for the remainder.<br />Henry Clausen, at the time a major in the Army JAG corps, was appointed by Secretary of War Stimson in 1944 to reinvestigate the disaster at Pearl Harbor when it became apparent that the Army Board investigating Pearl Harbor received tainted testimony designed to prevent disclosure of the secret of Magic.  Magic--information gained by breaking Japanese codes--was considered absolutely vital to the war effort and false testimony was given to prevent its disclosure.  When it became apparent that these measures were distorting the proper evaluation of what took place at Pearl Harbor, Stimson ordered a new investigation by Clausen.<br />In order to circumvent the veil of secrecy around Magic, Clausen was granted access to Magic and permitted to carry certain pertinent Magic documents in an incendiary pouch to aid in deposing witnesses in his investigation.  Presentation of the documents as Clausen's bona fides of being in on Magic club permitted witnesses to speak freely to him.  But Clausen found not only lies designed to protect Magic, but to cover up individual failings.<br />What Clausen does best in this narrative of his investigation and testimony before the Congressional Pearl Harbor investigation is explain why General Short and Admiral Kimmel lack any semblance of a legitimate defense.  Having had access to Magic, as well as War and Navy Department communications logs, Clausen lays out in sequence the warnings that Short and Kimmel received from their superiors, but later claimed they had lacked.  He clearly draws an analogy between their performance of their duties and those of a sentry asleep at his post.  This very effectively yanks the rug out from under the growing sympathy campaign forthese two historical figures.<br />Clausen then goes farther and identifies twelve more individuals who contributed to the debacle, uncovering some little-known details of certain persons' roles and actions.  He is on target in these evaluations which set on edge a number of revisionist \\"truths\\" that have come to light in recent years.  The credibility of the late Rear Admiral Layton is particularly damaged.<br />However, although he cites Colonel Bratton for his failure to ensure that his deputy, Colonel Dusenbury, performed properly, Clausen fails to take the point far enough and misses a few contributory players.  This might be a result of Clausen's freely admitted status as \\"a civilian lawyer in uniform\\" with no military officer training.  As a result he misses the larger application of the principle he applies to Bratton, in which officers at higher levels of organization bear responsibility for the proper organization of subordinate levels.<br />Thus, General Marshall, General Miles, Admiral Stark, Admiral Noyes, Admiral Wilkinson, and Admiral Bloch escape Clausen's list of parties whose contributory negligence helped make the disaster through poor organization of the War and Navy Departments for war, and more particularly the poor organization of their Intelligence, Communications and War Plans divisions.  However, he does successfully demonstrate that General Marshall and Admiral Stark were not guilty of any criminal negligence in the fashion of Short and Kimmel, both officers having transmitted appropriate warnings to their subordinates in Hawaii.<br />Hence, Clausen's work cannot be the \\"Final Judgement\\" claimed in the title.<br />It does, however, admit a breeze to clear away some of the smoke that obscures the truth about Pearl Harbor and permits conspiracy theories to thrive.  It graphically demostrates that Pearl Harbor resulted from a systemic gaffe, personal failings and mundane events.  By ordering and condensing the information received by Short and Kimmel, it becomes readily apparent exactly what they received in the way of warnings.  By including previous correspondence discussing the hazard of air attack on Pearl Harbor, and anxiety about the issue,from the War and Navy Secretaries down to the Hawaiian commanders, Clausen dispels the notion that such an attack was inconceivable to the American leadership.  Rather, it was a foremost concern.  <br />Clausen also brings out the essential irrelevance of the \\"Winds Code Messages\\" by revealing that they governed a contingency that did not occur:  disruption of communications with Japanese diplomatic posts before the onset of hostilities.  Thus, looking for the Winds Code activation message as a precursor for war was faulty logic.  Communications with Japanese diplomatic posts were not disrupted before hostilities and therefor there was no need to transmit the activation message.  This did not, however, prevent US command and intelligence personnel from fooling themselves into looking for said message as an essential precursor to war.<br />Clausen also exposes the awkward arrangements made for decoding intercepted messages and the even more amateurish method of their distribution, tracking and routine destruction for security reasons.  He further reveals the extent of stove-piping in the Army and Navy Intelligence divisions and the inter-service politics and rivalries that impeded the proper sharing and dissemination of priceless Magic-derived information.<br />Clausen's work is an essential one for understanding what happened to make Pearl Harbor an easy target.  Do not be put off by its seeming Army-bias at times (Clausen's actually very fair if you read him impassively), or Clausen's causal and almost flip narrative, or Lee's imperfect editorial effort:  pay attention to the facts being laid out and the conclusions being drawn.  Then ask yourself if they make sense.  I suspect after reading this work, you won't give a Pearl Harbor conspiracy theorist the timeof day.<br />Also recommended:  Prange's \\"At Dawn We Slept\\" and supporting volumes by Prange and his research staff, as well as Lord's more poetic narrative \\"Day of Infamy\\" and Layton's sometimes self-serving insider perspective \\"And I was there...\\"  Toland's \\"Infamy\\" can be read for familiarity with the underpinnings of the conspiracy theories.  ....	2001-07-17
US	52525147	R1QG7JVESK7IQD	0813338697	226826039	Fire In The Sky: The Air War In The South Pacific	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Unique, insightful, essential and difficult.	This is a unique work of history, with a new, unusual and sometimes difficult to follow style.  However, if you're interested in air warfare it's one you should read.<br />Why?  Because unlike the majority of aviation history, this volume covers the missing, essential, middle ground.  Most aviation history is either an in-the-cockpit &quot;there I was and I won the war singlehandedly&quot; memoir at the tactical level, or a strategic overview not unlike the surface of the earth seen by the naked eye from 40,000 feet--expansive but lacking in detail.  What Bergerud gives us is a glimpse into the vitally important operational level in the art of air warfare, that middle ground between the tactical and the strategic where some of the most important activities in air warfare take place.<br />Bergerud examines the geography, climate and infrastructure of the South Pacific theatre in a fashion that is pertinent to the operations undertaken.  He also makes a hard-hitting critical examination of the aircraft on both sides reaching some astute conclusions that will be sure to infuriate the superficial but click with the perceptive.  He examines the airmen of both sides, their preparations for war and their morale in the theatre.  Finally he gives a penetrating look into the nuts and bolts of fighter and bomber operations in the theatre.<br />One vehicle for this detailed analysis is testimonial interview material and this impacts the style of the work and its readability.  Many of the quotes are reused for the valid purpose of bringing out different elements of the quote that pertain to other elements of the dicussion.  However, the sheer profusion of these illuminating remarks can derail the reader's train of thought and the repetition is noted.<br />Another thing that will derail many readers is the unusual organization of the book, particularly the emphasis on factors that many military history readers have probably not been exposed to before in such detail.  The discussion about the weather is sure to throw some readers for their having probably only seen it discussed in WWII histories respecting the Battle of the Bulge and Halsey's typhoon encounters.  The fact that weather very severely impacts military operations is probably only realized as an abstraction for most readers and students of history.  But Bergerud digs into it and makes sure it's &quot;in your face&quot; in a way that helps you understand what the flyers in the theatre had to deal with.  This is one of the reasons this work is so valuable.<br />Similarly, the seemingly tedious testimonials reveal interesting facts lost to most air histories:  the rationale of the tactics of positioning to repel fighter attacks on bombers; the phenomenon in a dog fight of a &quot;sky full of airplanes&quot; being suddenly replaced by one's own aircraft flying &quot;alone in the sky;&quot; and the contribution of the reconnaissance aircraft.  A number of these gems are polished all that much brighter for their emerging from the repeated words of many of the men who flew the missions.<br />If you're a serious student of air warfare, you really should read this book and pay attention.  It might not be the easiest read in the world, but there's a good reason for it being the way it is and I must disagree with those reviewers who claim Bergerud has randomly disgorged his thoughts.  Why?  Because I've been there and done that and this book IS air operations.  In reading it I found myself nodding and recognizing what I had been through and observed flying military aircraft operationally.  There's a lot to learn and learn from in this volume.<br />It deserves a place on the shelf next to Michel's &quot;Clashes&quot; and Barrett &amp; Tillman's &quot;On Yankee Station.&quot;  Which is, not coincidentally where it resides in my bookshelf.	2001-06-24
US	52525147	R1TEB0MY5WZKG5	0743201299	977410269	Day Of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	1	75	118	N	N	A poor, disingenuous effort lacking proof.	This book fails to prove its contention that FDR knowingly and specifically set the fleet at Pearl Harbor up for destruction. <br />Stinnett claims a memorandum from intelligence officer Arthur McCollum--a mere lieutenant commander--was the genesis of a policy of provocation by FDR against Japan.  However, when read, it becomes apparent the actions recommended in paragraph 9 are normal military, political and economic contingencies leveled against aggressive nations, not a plan of provocation.<br />It is McCollum's paragraph 10 statements that surprise.  &quot;If by these means Japan can be led to commit an overt act of war, so much the better.  At all events we must be fully prepared to accept the threat of war.&quot;  If one reads the first sentence and discards the second, it sounds quite damning.  Taken together and in the context of the previous five pages, it becomes apparent McCollum feels even the least action is likely to provoke war and if Japan makes the first move, the US can get on with the inevitable business at hand.  This makes the excerpted eight actions much less a provocation and much more a measured and prudent response to impending war.<br />Besides misconstruing McCollum's intent and influence, Stinnett incorrectly states that all eight proposed actions were executed and that they originated with McCollum.  However, proposals to use British and Dutch naval bases predated McCollum's October 1940 memo, having been promulgated in War Plan Rainbow Two of September 1939.  They were never carried out.  The &quot;Base F&quot; Stinnett refers to was an Army--not Navy--project, and consisted only of lengthening Rabaul's runway to permit Trans-Pacific ferry flights of B-17s to the Philippines.  The U.S. Fleet was held in Hawaiian waters from May 1940, and the Dutch were refusing Japanese demands for oil even as the memo made its way up the chain of command in Washington D.C..  Clearly, McCollum did not originate these ideas.<br />Stinnett also attempts to claim two cruisers (one heavy and one light) normally assigned to the Asiatic Fleet, and one light cruiser passing through as a convoy escort to the Philippines constitute fulfillment of McCollum's proposal to send a division (typically 4 ships) of (specifically) heavy cruisers to reinforce the Asiatic Fleet.  This proposal was indisputably not acted on.<br />Stinnett states that provocative &quot;pop-up&quot; cruises by U.S. cruisers were carried out, even into the mouth of Japan's Inland Sea.  But the log entries Stinnett cites reveal both logged cruises were in U.S. controlled waters along the route to Australia.  As for the supposed foray to the Inland Sea's mouth, there are no log entries, only unverified claims of a Japanese hydrophone contact in that busy waterway repeated to and by the U.S. ambassador.<br />Stinnett's work is written from the assumption that his thesis is true, not from clear supporting evidence indicating it is true. He repeatedly fails to conclusively establish a trail of evidence to the necessary decision-makers, much less FDR. He fails to synchronize time lines or clarify chains of evidence and action (or inaction), and his technical knowledge is rudimentary.  <br />Stinnett also never provides adequate information to check claims of radio direction finding &quot;fixes&quot; establishing the presence of Japanese carriers in the North Pacific.  He only gives one exact bearing in the entire book, when it requires three to &quot;fix&quot; each intercepted signal to a geographic location.  The track chart provided is a reconstruction from memory and could thus be a complete fabrication.  Nor do the bearings surface in end notes.  If this crucial information exists, it's squirreled away with Stinnett's papers in an archive and withheld from the reader.  Why?   The intercepted transmissions supposedly originated from Nagumo's carrier force during its approach to Pearl Harbor.  However, the Japanese say the ships sailed with their transmitters deliberately disabled.  Stinnett produces no Japanese witness to dispute this.  Nor does he quote the signals or give dates and times for their transmission and receipt.  He gives total numbers of intercepted transmissions from Nagumo during the period of 15 November 1941 to 8 December 1941.  As this includes the 10 days prior to the carrier force's departure and imposition of radio silence, one is forced to wonder if there actually were any transmissions between 25 November and 7 December--the only dates which would establish the striking force's track.<br />Stinnett transparently bridges logical and evidentiary gaps with assumption and sloppily relies on the verbal recollections of positively discredited sources.  Worse, his end notes display a consistent and disturbing pattern.  Virtually every paragraph which raises a contention, allegation, charge of treason or piece of new evidence bears an end note in the seemingly appropriate place. But referencing the end note too often produces unrelated material, trivia, or original context that flies in the face of Stinnett's theory. <br />The suspicious pattern of end-noting severely damages Stinnett's credibility, as does his &quot;I've got a secret&quot; handling of his &quot;discoveries&quot; and his failure to quote them. The general aire of disingenuousness is completed by his claim that his host of traitors are patriots and the ends of their alleged actions justified the means.  Yet his ostensible purpose is to bring out the truth for aggrieved survivors of Pearl Harbor casualties.  Say what? <br />One is led to conclude this contradiction exists to shield the author from the (quite appropriate) legal wrath of the families of the men he claims committed treason in a work that is only remotely scholarly and too thoroughly sensationalistic speculation. <br />&quot;Day of Deceit&quot; is not enlightening, not proof, and not reliable. Read it with extreme caution and careful attention to what is not said, what is said vaguely, what is deceptively cited, what is not shared, and what can be explained more readily by a better mundane explanation.	2001-05-03
US	52525147	R23VGVDCJFO3VY	0684857804	880656084	ROLLING THUNDER: Jet Combat From WW II to the Gulf War	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Of small value, superficial and inaccurate.	Ivan Rendall is a British television producer and his book is as superficial, incomplete, inaccurate and misleading as his medium. Its real  value is as a series of vignettes of various fighter engagements.  Do not  buy it as a history of \\"Jet Combat from World War II to the Gulf War.\\"  It  isn't.<br />Rendall's work is so USAF-centric, and \\"pointy-nose\\" focussed it  could have been written by the fighter desk of the USAF's Public Affairs  Office.  Thoroughly ignored is any aircraft bearing an \\"A\\" or \\"B\\" prefix  even if it is a jet.  In addition, aircraft bearing the markings \\"USN\\" or  \\"USMC\\" are only mentioned grudgingly.<br />As a result a major piece of the  history of \\"jet\\" combat in Korea is ignored, including the USN's and USMC's  vital roles in providing effective close air support to prevent the  collapse of the Pusan perimeter.  Subsequent historial investigation has  revealed USAF close air support to have been ineffective, with North Korea  and Chinese survivors going so far as to state that they \\"feared the blue  planes the most.\\"  This critical effort is instead coopted to USAF  F-84s.<br />The tremendous contributions of A-4 and A-6 fliers in Vietnam are  almost entirely ignored.  So too AV-8B, A-7 and A-10 fliers in the Gulf  War.  To all appearances, only F-100s, F-105s, F-4s, F-111s fought in  Vietnam, and F-117s F-15s and F-16s in the Gulf. The crucial role of USN  F-8 squadrons in showing the way to the reinstitution of gunfighting and  the formation of Top Gun during the lull in the Vietnamese air war is  entirely absent.  So too is any mention of the F-8's unrivaled kill ratio  in that conflict.  Instead, Rendall's only nod to the USN is to document  Cunningham and Driscoll.  One suspects that had they not been the very  first aces of that war, they too would have been ignored.  <br />The two Gulf  of Sidra incidents, and Operations Eldorado Canyon and Praying Mantis are  not even mentioned.<br />His understanding of electronic warfare and precision  munitions is pathetically bad.  Once again he is blindly USAF-centric,  laboring under the misconception that the E-3 and the E-8 are the sole hubs  of the constellation of aircraft involved in electronic missions.  His  descriptions of precision weapons' guidance are very poor and misleading.   His description of Gulf War Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses is  particularly bad, and displays an ignorance of the geography, the weapons'  capabilities and the techniques employed.<br />Once again he utterly misses  the contribution of the USN, which provided better than half of the SEAD  sorties that destroyed Iraq's air defense systems, and misattributes USN  SEAD tactics to USAF aircraft.<br />The proof of the work's superficiality  lies in the bibliography, which reads--with few exceptions--like a listing  of works on jets which were available at Rendall's corner bookstore.  His  writing is almost exclusively from secondary sources and \\"picture books.\\"   <br />If you're interested in Vietnam jet combat, buy Michel's \\"Clashes,\\"  Tillman's \\"MiG Master,\\" and Nichols and Tillman's \\"On Yankee Station.\\"  The  last is listed in Rendall's bibliography, but he appears not to have read  it (Cunningham and Driscoll's exploits excepted).  For the Gulf War, I  recommend Murray's \\"Air War in the Persian Gulf\\" and Friedman's \\"Desert  Victory.\\"	2000-08-05
US	52525147	R20OQQUQHZAEHZ	1557501262	101035191	The Battle of Cape Esperance: Encounter at Guadalcanal	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An excellent account of an overlooked battle.	Popular mythology of the Solomons Campaign holds that the Japanese Navy was invincible at night and hopelessly outclassed the United States Navy.  Read the average account of the battles in the Slot and you come away with  the impression that the Japanese won them all, or at least all up until  Second Guadalcanal.<br />Cook's book provides a fine, straightforward  narrative of one of the early engagements which the US Navy, in fact, won.   It's a readable, exciting book which also contains information useful to  serious students of the war and campaign.	2000-05-22
US	52525147	R2U4KIANXYUFUB	0870100971	622429658	A Battle History of the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1941-1945	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Required reading for those interested in the Pacific War.	Dull's is a seminal work on the Second World War in the Pacific and the Japanese Navy in particular.  It should be part of the library of any serious student of the war or the IJN and is the perfect complement to the  single volume condensation of Morison's &quot;History of United States  Naval Operations in World War II&quot; titled &quot;The Two Ocean  War.&quot;<br />Some of the information in this volume is a little weathered,  but it remains the most complete and the most readable single volume  history of the IJN.	2000-05-22
US	52525147	R3I2GJMWPD407	0870211927	605402174	Kaigun: Strategy, Tactics, and Technology in the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1887-1941	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A seminal work - don't miss it if you're interested.	This is a magnum opus to match S.E. Morrison's 14 volume History of United States Naval Operations in World War II, or Clay Blair's &quot;Silent Victory&quot; and 2-volume Hitler's U-Boat war, or Lundstrom's two  &quot;First Team&quot; volumes.  Such are volumes that a serious student of  the Pacific War does not fail to read.  Add this one.  &quot;Kaigun&quot;  is the perfect complement to Miller's &quot;War Plan Orange.&quot;  Why?  First, Kaigun fills in the internal history of the Imperial Japanese Navy  from its inception to the fatal decisions which led to its destruction.   Second, it examines the strategic, doctrinal and tactical thought which  drove, or was driven by the technological progress of the IJN. And finally,  it explodes a number of cherished myths surrounding the IJN, most  particularly its very active part in pushing Japan to war. What this volume  can't answer and can't be held accountable for is why intelligent men  leading the IJN made the incredibly bad decision to go to war, although it  clearly illustrates the strategic calculus used to rationalize those  decisions.  &quot;Kaigun&quot; also shows (with the clarity of hindsight,  or course) why Japan never had a chance of winning its war with the United  States short of divine intervention. This is a seminal work and absolutely  not to be missed.  The technical detail may bore and quail the casual  reader, but the serious student and the reader wanting the truth of the  matter won't be put off.  This is the best English language work available  on the subject and should be read in conjunction with &quot;War Plan  Orange.&quot;	1999-07-25
US	52525147	R1RV8M2H8WNTBD	0688149472	337555302	Victory at Sea: World War Ii in the Pacific	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Tabloid history lacking in accuracy	True to their sensationalistic &quot;Dirty Little Secrets&quot; series, Dunnigan and Nofi once again take the tabloid approach to history.  Their eye for trivia is all encompassing and presented with the arrogance of  20/20 hindsight.  Every item is presented with cynicism and an overpowering  aire of contempt.  The message is clear:  If Dunnigan and Nofi had been  running World War II we wouldn't have needed all those military dolts who  blundered their way through it.  If their arrogance isn't bad enough, the  authors' factual errors complete the damage.  The least and most obvious of  such errors are misidenfication of ships.The worst errors come from their  pop history tabloid approach.  When they claim carriers were only developed  because senior officers wanted to keep a few more high ranking billets  around in an era of limited battleship commands they are showing their  truest, most sensational and cynical colors.  These gentlemen should work  for the Star or the Enquirer.	1999-06-26
US	52525147	R2VWAOHAJ70Q1B	0684807653	227490085	Her Little Majesty: The Life of Queen Victoria	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very Readable	This book was very readable, enjoyable, and historically fascinating.  It was not as indepth as one would expect of a monarch with such longevity or for a woman with such fascinating children.  But for your history buff that  doesn't have time to be a scholar this was the must read book about  Victoria.  It provided a glimpse of her personal and public life and showed  the world what &quot;Victorian&quot; really meant.	1999-04-04
US	52525147	RFXIX89LPN9FM	0895264471	672167957	The Next War	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Poor writing and scores of errors shame serious topic	I'm forced to agree with other reviewers that too little effort, and too  much weight to Weinberger and Thatcher's famous names have been put into  this work.  What should have been an serious study is instead a shallow,  slip-shod effort by a &quot;media fellow&quot; (Schweizer) who couldn't  strategize his way through a game of checkers with Tom Clancy, much less  successfully imitate the latter's thorough research and deft story-telling.  Technical errors are legion, even in the &quot;reference&quot; appendixes.  The author displays absolutely no grasp of the capabilities of the various  combat systems toyed with in the text.  The poor use of a word-processor by  a person completely unfamiliar with topic of the book is painfully obvious.  Minor typos are repeated through the entire text.  Worst is the Navy  &quot;EC-2A&quot; aircraft, an obvious, erroneous, wholesale spellchecker  replacement for &quot;E-2C.&quot;  I suspect Weinberger provided the  geopolitical skeleton of this work's scenarios, which Schweizer did the  media's usual poor job of translating and embellishing with a &quot;Tom  Clancy&quot; style.  Read this work only to take note of the geopolitics.  In all other aspects of strategy, tactics and weapons systems capabilities,  it is useless.	1998-11-01
US	52525147	R1DRD7HY2TFMP	0312063644	229432111	The Great Pacific War	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An interesting look at naval warfare from the 1920s.	This is a remarkable work, which details the 1920s view of what a then  &quot;near future&quot; Pacific War would be like.  Readers should NOT look  for a prognostication of the Pearl Harbor attack or of Kamikazes.  Hector  Bywater correctly guessed the Japanese would engage in a surprise base  attack to start the war, but conservatively placed it in the Philippines  just as U.S. strategists assumed during the critical days prior to Pearl  Harbor.  This is nothing more than historical extrapolation from the start  of the Sino- and Russo-Japanese wars.  The only semblance of  &quot;kamikazes&quot; is in rammings between aircraft (not confined to the  Japanese) particularly when one pilot is fatally wounded, and the dramatic  &quot;last charge&quot; of the battleship Mutsu, but even the ficticious  observer of this event acknowledges it could be caused by a rudder  casualty.  This book is neither fantasy, nor prognostication, but accurate  strategic speculation.  Do NOT read it from the viewpoint of the future and  knowledge of what happened in 1941-1945.  Read it first from the  perspective of what was known in 1926, and available 1920s and 1930s  materiel.  The Japanese Navy of 1932 was not capable of mounting an air  raid on Pearl Harbor.  It had neither the carriers, the aircraft nor the  oilers to pull it off.  The ascendancy of naval aviation was probably  impossible any sooner than 1940-1941 because the aircraft were  insufficiently advanced.  Thus in Bywater's work, written in 1926, aviation  is a significant factor for reconnaissance, but falls short in the attack.   Bywater also assumes the use of gas, and his amphibious techniques are  understandably crude.  Some of his best speculation regards the good and  poor qualities of &quot;Treaty Cruisers,&quot; and the Japanese propensity  for building latent capabilities into hulls for later conversion.  His  reversion of the Akagi and Kaga to capital ships from carriers,  foreshadowed the fitting of 8-inch gunsto the Mogami and Tone Class  cruisers prior to WWII.  This work is a masterpiece of its time and  iminently readable to boot.	1998-08-30
US	52525147	RSV92IGR03P8W	0688112706	581546019	Dirty Little Secrets: Military Information You're Not Supposed To Know	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Trivia disguised as shocking revelations.	Mr. Dunnigan should have stopped with his volume &quot;How to Make War.&quot;  It contains everything informative that appears in this volume with none of the pop-media inspired &quot;conspiracy&quot; aire.  &quot;Dirty Little Secrets&quot; is 90 percent trivia, 5 percent restatements of the obvious, 4 percent tired rehashes of long-corrected (or discredited) &quot;problems&quot; and about 1 percent &quot;military information you're not supposed to know.&quot;  Whenever pop-media and the military collide, the military comes off the worse, portrayed as either buffoons or renegades.  Dunnigan and Nofi play heavily to the former theme.  I recommend a serious reader check out Mr. Dunnigan before he sold out to the pop-media and read &quot;How to Make War.&quot;  Miss this skewed collection of trivia with attitude.  If we bought weapons and doctrine according to the implied standards of this work, every system would have to work perfectly from the instant of conception.  God forbid it should experience some growing pains.  The amusing thing is, the discerning reader can detect the flaws of Dunnigan and Nofi's approach in their own work.  Revelations that a popular tank was reviewed as having numerous &quot;flaws&quot; during initial testing include the observation that none touched on its fighting qualities and most were minor &quot;creature comforts.&quot;  All of which were subsequently corrected.  Big shock!  Do you think GM doesn't test automobiles and then make minor design changes before going to production?  Do you think MicroSoft doesn't do product tests, or updates?  If these facts are Dirty Little Secrets to you, you need to get out more.	1998-05-25
US	52525147	RK0SDHPZGYYXX	0375750479	939441209	Winged Victory: The Army Air Forces in World War II	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Readable, informative and overly personality driven.	Mr. Perret's work is good for a single volume history of the AAC in WW2.  However, it is too wrapped up in personalities, particularly that of Gen. Hap Arnold, and overly consumed with the Mediterranean Theatre.  If this were a cradle to grave history of the Air Corps, or a biography of General Arnold, the time spent at the beginning dealing with the early careers and personalities of the Air Corps might be relevant.  However, this is a history of the AAC in WW2 and the space spent on the early years of the the Army's flying organization, and the misadventures of its later commanding generals would have been better spent telling the tale during WW2.  Too much focus rests on the Mediterranean Theatre.  So little space was devoted to the operations of the Eighth and other Air Forces based in England that Mr. Perret added nothing to my knowledge of the subject from Col. Boyne's &quot;Clash of Wings.&quot;  And as for the Pacific, either the AAC accomplished little (as some in the Navy would insist) or it was seriously neglected.  Details of the tempo and nature of operations are lacking except for the occassional recounted exploit.  Too often we're treated to musings about Arnold's frustration with this or that item.  Still, Perret lays a good ground-work to start from, but I won't be stopping with him.  Despite some nice descriptions of the aircraft employed, some informative work on Chennault and the AVG, and an amusing confirmation of the Air Force's cradle-bred and ongoing obsession with appearances, this is not a definitive work on the subject.	1998-05-25
US	52525147	R2FV8SEUXNVG38	0870217593	693936852	War Plan Orange: The U.S. Strategy to Defeat Japan, 1897-1945	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A revelatory vindication of interwar military plans.	Too often these days both fictional and &quot;factual&quot; scholarly and media representations of military personnel falls into two categories:  buffoons or renegades.  Edward S. Miller explodes the myth that the interwar military planners were a bunch of buffoons and the actual combatants who won the war against Japan a bunch of brilliant innovators.  War Plan Orange reveals the careful, thoughtful debate and study that went into Pacific War Planning for 48 years.  In the final analysis, about the only mistake the interwar planners actually made was to underestimate time and resources required (something that happens with every campaign).  As to basic strategy, their work was sound.  The campaigners of WW2--some of whom helped with interwar planning--did nothing innovative, they simply executed a good plan proven through much wargaming and study.	1998-05-18
US	52525147	R3VKZ0YJGVN7VB	1877853364	254067981	Air War in the Persian Gulf	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A unique and startling look at Gulf War air operations.	The shocking thing about this work is that it is publically available.  It provides a remarkable look into the process and forces that are driving United States air operations (for good or ill) in the Joint arena.  It should be required reading for every military aviator.  Its only essential flaw is that it began as commissioned study, and its customer is obvious.	1998-05-11
US	52525147	R1LJZ6DER1UX7M	1557505853	903781190	Clashes: Air Combat over North Vietnam 1965-1972	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent review of air-to-air combat over Vietnam.	Colonel Michel does an outstanding job, laying blame where it belongs and credits where they are deserved.  His work is so good, I was disappointed that he did not tilt at a few more current wind-mills.  With a 1997 copyright, there's certainly more that could be said about the effectiveness (more or less) of current doctrine, planes and training.  I felt Chapter 9 &quot;Looking Back, Looking Ahead,&quot; was a little light.  Also, I'd've liked to see more data in the appendices covering more aircraft and configurations, particularly Navy.  Also authoritative tabular data on in-service rates, orders of battle, MiG killers and aces would have been desireable.  However, this takes very little away from a fine work of analysis that is sure to be an essential in the libraries of air warfare enthusiasts.  Thank you, Colonel, your book is a good, informative read.	1998-05-11
US	52525147	R16LFM3WD6EN	0870215590	17878860	On Yankee Station: The Naval Air War Over Vietnam	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A masterwork of objective analysis.	This work is a clear-headed, no holds barred look at the Vietnam air war from the naval perspective.  Don't let its even tone fool you.  It cuts to the bone and damns by simple observation, with no need for editorializing by the authors.  It points up the facts, fictions, failures and achievements of the naval air war against North Vietnam in a quick, easy style, with superb organization and excellent supporting material in the appendices.  Any student of the Vietnam air war who misses this title is not a serious person.  It is required reading on the subject, and should be complemented by Marshal Michel's &quot;Clashes&quot; for the USAF side of the story.	1998-05-11
US	52525147	R1Z2F5594L9QGJ	087021585X	52050029	Mig Master: The Story of the F-8 Crusader	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another fine aircraft history from Mr. Tillman.	Barrett Tillman has long set the standard for aircraft histories, and this volume is an outstanding work dedicated to a unique, often forgotten and under-rated aircraft.  The achievements of the F-8 aircraft and its fliers are well covered and entertainingly rendered in this fast reading narrative. An essential work for anyone interested in jet fighters, Vietnam air combat, or air warfare in general.	1998-05-11
US	52525147	R2W2KPPL0VOI26	0394588398	890146488	Hitler's U-Boat War : The Hunters,  1939-1942 (Hitler's U Boat War)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Does for the Atlantic what Blair did for the Pacific--BZ!	Clay Blair is what military historians should be.  Silent Victory was an obvious labor of love, and so is this volume.  Blair's readability, technical knowledge, and unparalleled research and analysis should be the standard.  Of particular note in this volume are the almost hopeless character of the U-boat tonnage war, and the vindication of Admiral King, long wrongly accused of giving needed destroyer escorts a low priority.  This prioritization was actually the fault of Roosevelt, in direct contravention of King's attempts to push DE construction.  Bravo Zulu, Mr. Blair, this is a job well done, and I look forward to the second volume.	1997-12-22
US	52525147	R3PEAHUX8AUE1F	0553342789	798801258	Silent Victory: The U.S. Submarine War Against Japan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A definitive work of love.	Clay Blair's Silent Victory is the most readable, detailed and accurate book published about the U.S. unrestricted submarine warfare campaign in the Pacific.  It is dead-on in its research and analysis, and pulls no punches in its criticisms.  It's only weakness is in being produced before certain documents were declassified (hence the 9, vice the 10 it would formerly have received).  An utterly incredible work that sets the standard for military historians in any field.  Bravo Zulu, Mr. Blair, I've respected your work for two decades.	1997-12-22
US	52525147	R3UTTIJQXTHXS9	0684839156	239502123	Clash of Wings: World War II in the Air	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Readable, occassionally insightful, but also questionable.	Col. Boyne's book is certainly written in a readable style, but it is yet another strategic history of air warfare, a genre overpopulated with the strategic and tactical at the expense of the operational.  Thankfully, Col. Boyne takes more of a look at the operational level of war than most air authors, but it's still a glimpse limited mostly to correlation of forces tables.  However, some of Boyne's strategic insights are refreshing, particularly his revelations about how the cycle of aircraft and technology development impacted the different air forces, and the size and strategic mobility of the Luftwaffe and the Japanese Naval Air Force.  Unfortunately, in the end, Col. Boyne is lead astray by his own background, wandering off course in the Pacific due to a poor understanding of naval air power.  Naval Aviation's pioneers and their struggle to establish the arm that won the great battles of the Pacific war receive short shrift, as does the whole campaign.  Boyne focusses excessively on the role of land based aviation, particularly the 5th Air Force and the B-29 bomber campaign.  The former's Bismarck Sea massacre of a Japanese convoy is a highly overrated event, and the later was largely a matter of beating a dead horse.  The Japanese recognized their military defeat at the Battle of the Philippine Sea, in June 1944 before a single B-29 launched from the Marianas.  The only reason the war continued past that point was cultural pride and stubbornness.  Clash of Wings is a good starting point, but I recommend the following books to people who really want to understand the Pacific war:  Miller's &quot;The Naval Air War,&quot; Hezlet's &quot;Aircraft and Sea Power,&quot; Reynold's &quot;The Fast Carriers,&quot; and Allen and Polmar's &quot;Code-name Downfall.&quot;  The B-29 campaign was rescued from a historical verdict of ineffectiveness, pointlessness and inhumanity only by the staggering shock of the atomic bomb, something Boyne appropriately calls &quot;true air power.&quot;  In the end, only nuclear, biological and chemical weapons are capable of achieving Guilio Douhet's vision of air power.power.&quot;  In the end, only nuclear, biological and chemical weapons are capable of achieving Guilio Douhet's vision of air power.	1997-12-20
US	52525147	R2TBLBIX0G88UP	0684839148	62487711	CLASH OF TITANS: World War II at Sea	Books	1	22	25	N	N	Don't write history you don't know:  MISS THIS!	This book is as bad as Col. Boyne's Clash of Wings is good.  It is accurate only on the grossest level.  In detail and analysis it is an abject failure.  Col. Boyne is a retired USAF officer and displays no understanding of naval technology or warfare, and gleefully indulges in any opportunity for real or imagined criticisms of navies and naval leaders.  These are &quot;favors&quot; he failed to do for Air Force leaders in Clash of Wings.  Many of his criticisms of Admiral King, for example, are nothing more than repetitions of popular hearsay recently debunked by the inimitable Clay Blair.  As an aviator, Col. Boyne is overly fascinated with individual achievements in naval warfare, a field of endeavor dominated by teamwork.  He spends inordinate time salivating over the feats of U-boat &quot;aces&quot; (a word sure to get his attention) and various frogmen.  In technical details he can't get ships' armaments or protective systems' capabilities correct or even place admirals aboard the correct ship.  In analysis he fails miserably and frequently.  I'll describe only his most falacious attempt to discredit navies and tout air forces.  Boyne sites a study claiming that the B-29 mining campaign was far more life- and cost-effective than the submarine campaign against shipping.  Boyne claims the B-29 campaign cost 103 lives and $6 per ton sunk versus  3,560 lives and $55 per ton sunk for submarines.  But Boyne completely ignores the &quot;hidden&quot; costs of the B-29 effort:  the invasion of the Marianas at a cost of over 8,000 lives and untold treasure to secure bases for the B-29.  He also ignores the eventually futile effort to support B-29 bases in China, also at a great cost in lives and treasure.  If you want to learn about naval warfare in World War II, consult the experts' work:  Morrison's &quot;The Two Ocean War,&quot; Miller's &quot;War At Sea&quot; and &quot;The Naval Air War,&quot; Blair's &quot;Silent Victory&quot; and &quot;Hitler's U-Boat War,&quot; Padfield's &quot;War Beneath the Sea,&quot; Hezlet's &quot;Aircraft and Sea Power,&quot; and Reynold's &quot;The Fast Carriers.&quot;  Miss Boyne's disappointing, if readable effort in this book.  After Clash of Wings, I'd hoped he'd do better.	1997-12-20
US	52525147	R310VKYOBYUQ9X	0684839156	239502123	Clash of Wings: World War II in the Air	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Readable, occasionally insightful, but also questionable.	Col. Boyne has produced a very readable history of the air war in WW2, but his USAF roots betray him in the end.  Chief among Boyne's strong points is his recognition of the impact of the aircraft technological development cycle on the combatants.  It goes a long way toward illuminating why the Luftwaffe and Japanese Naval Air Force peaked early, only to stagnate later.  Boyne also delves into certain strategic and operational level facts not often addressed.  His revelations about the small size, but significant strategic mobility of the Luftwaffe and JNAF are quite interesting, as well as his correlation of forces tables.  But alas, Boyne is of USAF origin and wanders into questionable assetions about the largely naval Pacific campaign.  He trots out the tired, tragic and questionable feat of Colin Kelly (saying the target was really the cruiser Ashigara, not a battleship), glosses over the abject failure of land-based air at Midway, and positively glories in the small, and largely over-rated massacre in the Bismarck Sea.  The role of the pioneers of Naval Aviation (such as John Towers) is largely ignored. Boyne is also a little light on his criticism of a number of USAF and RAF figures involved with the strategic bombing campaigns.  Overall, Col. Boyne has written a readable, concise and insightful history of the air war, but it is decidedly skewed and anyone truly interested in the air campaigns of WW2 must read beyond him.	1997-12-19
US	52525147	R5U24O69O1TRC	0345373243	388609856	Belgarath the Sorcerer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An outstanding effort at filling in the gaps.	If you're not interested in the history of Belgarath's world, and can't handle repetition, you've not only missed one of the key points of the Belgariad and Mallorean, you shouldn't buy this book.  If you think Belgarath's a god, and can't handle the tarnishment of his character, you obviously missed what Polgara's been hinting at with a sledgehammer all these years.  This is a book for people who love Belgarath's world for what it is:  a rich tapestry of the ages, interwoven with true family values, and incredible character development and interaction.  The Eddings' Belgarath succeeds where Tolkein's Silmarilion failed:  it fills in the wonderful backdrop of the earlier books without becoming a dull academic paper.  And as the end makes obvious , one man can't tell the whole story, even if he's 7000 years old.  There's Polgara's story as well, and (we hope) the stories of Poledra the Wolf, and that wonderfully cantankerous Beldin the Hunchback.	1997-12-18
US	52525147	R68FJF0LTPQFU	0345416627	369510298	Polgara the Sorceress	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book but hardly the end we hopeE!R	Polgara the sorceress is the only woman I think my husband would leave me for.  The individuals who think Pol is a rehash obviously haven't figured out the Belgariad and the Mallorean.  This is another great installment in a terrific series in its most unique point of view yet.  However there is still much more that could be told, specifically the even more unique story of Poledra the Wolf and the delightfully maniacal and twisted tale of Beldin the hunchback.  We loved it.  We have read the entirity of the series in the car traveling across the country and recommend that everyone does so.	1997-12-17
US	52525147	R27V6MDY7EL054	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding novel betrayed by a poor movie	An often misunderstood book that people think is controversial, the idea that serving  one's country to buy a stake in it is fascist is nothing more than rabid antimilitarism.  While Heinlein may overstate his point to make it obvious, it is still a very good one.  The real point is that people should contribute to their country.  The book far exceeds the movie's technical grasp.  The movie leaves you wondering why they didn't bring a tank, the book explains why one wasn't needed.  The Starship Troopers of the book are infinitely more formidable than the movie's.	1997-12-17
