US	52528129	R2F9IEYW3FUNY6	0486227464	658092227	Confucian Analects, The Great Learning & The Doctrine of the Mean	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Readable but dated and very scholarly for general reader	This collection of these three texts of Confucius translated by James Legge were my first introduction to the writings and philosophy of Confucius. When I was in the bookstore, I decided to pick this book out of the others because like,Evans-Wentz original translations of Tibetan Buddhist text, I prefer to pick the book with the most information and research put in to it. I also trusted James Legge because he went to China and studied with Confucius scholars. I have not read any other translation of Confucius so I must judge this translation on its own. Since it was translated around 1893, you can tell in the language. Yes, it can be pretty dry at times but after looking up a lot of words in the dictionary and getting more deep into Confucius' thought, I thought I understood the text well. You should read a few pages though before you buy this book because I am sure a lot of people would hate it. Which leads me to the next cautionary, this book is VERY scholarly and dense. I could barely even follow the notes at the bottom of the text. They mostly have to do with the treatment of the translation of Chinese characters. Also unless you have an extensive background of Chinese history and the Confucian tradition, the introduction are hard to follow because they expect you know the background information already. Another thing, which isn't James Legge's fault, I would love to see is some information discussing the cultural revolution's reaction to the Confucian tradition and how it is slowly coming back. <br />I would warn everyone to check out this book in a library or bookstore before buying it to see how it meets their needs. I found it very useful, even though a lot of it was over my head.	2003-11-08
US	52528129	R1C6KG8HUNU0T6	0915132354	500567406	The Bhagavad Gita	Books	5	118	127	N	N	A beautiful, clear, and enlightening translation	Eknath Easwaran's translation is poetic and beautiful making it readable and inspiring and managing at the same time to clearly state Krishna' spiritual message. Easwaran's translation manages to prove its merit for both spiritual and scholarly study. Many of the other translations are very dry coming from scholars who just know how to translate Sanskrit to English mechanically.Whereas Easwaran was a professor of English and now a spiritual guru; so he has a grasp on both worlds. They do not properly help explain the various yogas Krishna tells Arjuna; reading this translation has been the best explanation of yoga I have ever read before. Each chapter has an introduction to it and there is a glossary of terms in the back. The other translations I think fail also to understand and clearly explain the heart of Krishnia's message which is essentially that one's atman, soul, higher self etc. is one with brahman, the divine, the universe, the source of everything etc and that this liberation can be discovered through the path of yoga. There is not just one path of yoga but many like Karma Yoga(path of selfless service) and Raja Yoga(path of meditation.) The beauty of the Bhagavad Gita is that it explains a way to enter the path to liberation, no matter what stage of spiritual awareness you are it. The Bhagavad Gita manages to explain and apply esoteric and mystical practices to ones everyday life.This is why I think The Bhagavad Gita is the most popular text from India's spiritual texts. Also according to our karma and dharma, we will die and be born again and again until he are liberated. The Bhagavad Gita is a text that I believe should be read by anyone on the &quot;spiritual&quot; path. It is by far one of the greatest &quot;spiritual&quot; text ever written and we are fortunate to share this gift because of Easwaran's brilliant translation.	2003-10-21
US	52528129	R2YZ9KJGYTX950	0802130526	56166271	Dropping Ashes on the Buddha: The Teachings of Zen Master Seung Sahn	Books	5	16	17	N	N	One of my favorite modern Zen books	&quot;Dropping Ashes on The Buddha&quot; by Zen Master Seung Sahn is a truly unique gem in the boundless sea of Zen literature. It was one of the first books I read on Zen and it had a huge impact on me when I read it much like &quot;Zen Flesh, Zen Bones&quot; did. Like &quot;Zen Flesh, Zen Bones&quot; this book is filled to the brim with humor and compassion and wisdom, defying all logic that will truly awaken you. Seung Sahn was the first teacher to bring Korean Zen Buddhism to America and has since founded his own school. The book was compiled and edited by a student named Stephen Mitchell(whose translation of the &quot;Tao Te Ching&quot; I highly recommend.) The book is a collection of lectures, stories, letters, and stories(both modern and old) all by or having to do with Seung Sahn. It was also great to hear some great Zen stories from the Korean tradition and also a little bit about its lineage. Like koans and other Zen stories, this book shows a great account of buddha nature in action that is beyond words and thinking. Seung Sahn helped erase alot of misconceptions I had in my mind about Zen. I highly recommend this book. I am always re-reading certain stories every now and then and still finding them as fresh as the day I first read them.	2003-10-16
US	52528129	ROLQLQPCTJUMY	0824803574	168235545	A Primer of Soto Zen: A Translation of Dogen's Shobogenzo Zuimonki (East West Center Book)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	More like a collection of talks given by Dogen	&quot;A Primer of Soto Zen: A Translation of Dogen's Shobogenzo Zuimonki&quot; is a very misleading title. I remember I bought this book at a Soto Zen Center bookstore the second time I visited, hoping to understand the Soto Zen tradition and learn more about who Dogen was and how to do zazen. This book does not answer any of these questions. It is rather a collection of talks given by Dogen to his students which were written down by his disciple Ejo. It is also very wrong to assume that this text was intended to be a textbook for a certain school of thought as Dogen was not interested in estabalishing a school but rather in practing in the way of Sakyamuni Buddha. On the back of this book, it says that Zuimonki can be roughly translated as &quot;easy for ears to understand&quot; or &quot;simplified.&quot; Shobogenzo(&quot;The Eye of the True Dharma&quot;) is of course Dogen's 92 chapter magnum opus(which I shall read one day when I have lots and lots of time on my hands) that addresses everything from enlightenment to how monks should flush a toilet when living the monastic life. So this can be looked at as a simplified version of Dogen's Shobogenzo. The tone and content of the talks suggest this as well. Dogen's greatest gift as a Zen Master was to clearly and rationally articulate the essential teachings and practices of Sakyamuni Buddha and the Zen patriarchs. Dogen is constantly putting an emphasis on the practice of zazen and to put everything else aside. He says it simply and convincing without any extra terminology or philosophy. It reminds me of the simple sayings of Sakyamuni Buddha in the &quot;Dhammapada&quot; as opposed to the more complicated sutras.<br />I do not recommend this book if: 1.This is your first introduction to Dogen(Check out Kazuaki Tanashi's &quot;Moon in a Dewdrop&quot;) 2.You are seeking information on the basics of the practice of Soto Zen and Zazen(Check out any of Shunryu Suzuki's books.) If you are really into Dogen and can't get enough then by all means, pick up this book. It will be worth your time. I prefer his writings from Shobogenzo like &quot;Endeavor of the Way&quot; and &quot;Actualizuing The Fundamental Point&quot; myself but maybe you'll have a strong connection with these talks instead. I think it's a good book to pick up every now and then and read a few pages from and remember the basics of my practice and what Dogen was trying to get at in his teachings and writings.enough then by all means, pick up this book. It will be worth your time. I prefer his writings from Shobogenzo like &quot;Endeavor of the Way&quot; and &quot;Actualizuing The Fundamental Point&quot; myself but maybe you'll have a strong connection with these talks instead. I think it's a good book to pick up every now and then and read a few pages from and remember the basics of my practice and what Dogen was trying to get at in his teachings and writings.	2003-10-15
US	52528129	R3KJ55GALITHKS	1570620636	21156452	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	If there is one book I could keep....	Okay kids, this would probably be my pick for desert island book. I forget exactly how I got this book and read it but I do remember the first time I read the &quot;Zen Stories&quot; section of this book and being tottaly blowned away. I have never laughed so hard and related so much to a story in my life. I read half the book in one sitting and ever since have been practicing and reading about Zen. For months, I carried this book with me everywhere and I read a couple pages atleast twice a day. My copy is ragged and I'll probably have to get a new copy soon. I still am always reading it and lending it to friends. &quot;Zen Flesh, Zen Bones&quot; is a collection of famous Zen stories, Mumon's The Gateless Gate(a collection of koans), the famous 10 bulls Zen story &amp; paintings, and a chapter that is called &quot;Centering.&quot; The last section is great but doesn't really fit in the Zen Canon(I could be wrong?) The rest however fully express Zen as what it really is and not some philosophy or state you have to achieve but Buddha-nature and enlightment which you already have. If you read one book on Zen, this should be it.	2003-10-05
US	52528129	R1JFHUC6HPJLII	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a zen classic...a book you can always come back to	Weather you don't know anything about Zen or have been practicing for twenty years, &quot;Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind&quot; will always give you something new. Out of all the Zen books I own, this is the one I am constantly going back to and re-reading. For many American Zen students, this is the book that started it all. &quot;Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind&quot; is a collection of lectures given by Shrunryu Suzuki given to his students in Los Atlos, CA. They deal with the fundamentals of practice in the Soto Zen tradition started by Dogen in Japan. However it would be wrong to limit this book to just a tradition. I believe no matter what your beliefs or practices are, this book and the practice of zazen can help you. Suzuki emphasises strongly on practice which in Zen, its easy to get carried away with false ideas and I think that is what makes this book so helpful with my practice. So pick up this book and a Zafu and take the lotus position and be prepared to be changed forever.	2003-10-05
US	52528129	RORARUPLBBGEX	0671722794	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shakespeare's first masterpiece.	A Midsummer Night's Dream is one of Shakespeare's greatest plays and yet is his most slaughtered play on stage. It is a play that exists on an archetypal and mythic level. It is so universal and yet so much a part of our lives, that it is so hard to grasp. There are so many worlds that exist within the play, from a magical fairy world to Shakespeare's own contemporary actors. One of the most fascinating questions that the play puts forward is: How much control of our lives do we really have? Do bad things happen from our own doing or is there another working force like Puck that goes around causing mischief. The play also raises a debate of love. If you look at the lovers in the play, you could take a cynical view and see that it doesn't really matter who has who because they are all the same and all marriage leads to unhappiness. You could also learn that when two people have the same mutual feelings of love towards each other, it is a truly amazing thing. In the end, one gets that love is a vicious cycle that rarely falls out right but when it does, it must be acted on for it may never fall out perfectly again. Even though Oberon and Puck cause grief on the lover's, the mechanicals and Bottom, they restore everything to good in the end. The heart and humor of this play exists with Bottom and The Mechanicals. While Shakespeare is obviously mocking the bad acting of his time, he still sympathizes with the actors and lets them steal the show at the end. Midsummer also probably features Shakespeare's most beautiful poetry he wrote, that paints a magical and mystical picture is the mind's eye. A truly amazing piece.	2002-02-17
US	52528129	R2YL1RDD0GFDIT	0416146309	535604900	Towards a Poor Theatre	Books	5	15	15	N	N	It is a crime this book is out of print.	&quot;Towards A Poor Theatre&quot; by Jerzy Grotowski is probably the most important book written on acting since Stainslavsky's three famous character books. There is so little known about Grotowski and many people have tried to fake his work and people need to read the man's original words. Grotowski's vision of theatre has had the greatest effect on me more than any other person in theatre. He saw acting as a Holy experience where both the actor and spectator were transformed after the performance. Grotowski expanded from where Stainslavsky left off and drew his ideas everywhere from modern art to religious rituals to primitive theatre. Any one interested in theatre must read this book somehow and be changed forever like I have.	2001-11-21
US	52528129	R13OBZ9Y0ZGXYC	014071491X	145433437	Titus Andronicus (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A possible parody? Still the low end of Shakespeare.	&quot;Titus Andronicus&quot; is the most notorious and least performed play of Shakespeare's. T.S. Eliot once called it the worst play written in the English language and not even the loyalist Shakespeare scholars have stood by it. Not until the movie &quot;Titus&quot; came out, have I heard anyone mention it. All I knew before I finally saw it was that it was extremely over the top violent. In fact, when the rare times it had been performed to modern audiences, many audience members started laughing at how absurd and over the top violent it was. I am a very serious moody theater person but even I couldn't help laugh at some of these scenes. However, I am very curious to suspect, as Harold Bloom did, that Shakespeare might've wrote &quot;Titus Andronicus&quot; as a spoof on his contemporaries.  The play's content, plot, and characters are exactly equal to Seneca's plays. Seneca's plays however were never performed and we have no evidence that Shakespeare read Seneca's plays. So perhaps it was a jab at Kyd or Marlowe. The movie &quot;Titus&quot; seemed to use a lot of parody at many times. When I saw it the audience was laughing. I think it is safe to say that that theory may be correct. Although even if it was a parody, the play is still flat and doesn't do much for the audience. There are moments though where we can see Shakespeare developing as a dramatist. I couldn't help but think of &quot;Macbeth&quot; and &quot;King Lear&quot; during parts of Titus' monologues. Actually &quot;Titus Andronicus&quot; at best is a great study on the audience. 'Titus' was well received and performed in Shakespeare's day. Shakespeare was delivering to the audience, giving them a bloody Revenge tragedy that was popular in Elizabethan times. I am very surprise in an age when we make films that can depict a man cutting his face off and feeding it to his dogs(&quot;Hannibal&quot;), that 'Titus' wouldn't be more popular. I imagine that Shakespeare was trying to shift from comedian to tragedian and wrote a little experiment called &quot;Titus Andronicus.&quot; 'Titus' is worth reading for those who want to read all of Shakespeare but to the average reader, I would say pass and read &quot;KIng Lear&quot; or &quot;Macbeth.&quot; To give this play more than three stars would be an insult to Shakespeare's masterpieces.	2001-08-31
US	52528129	R6SV6Z6VPYBVS	0679600175	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text with Faulkner's Appendix (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Life is a tale told by an idiot signifying nothing	&quot;It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing&quot;(Macbeth V.v 25-30) One day I was looking for a new book to read and I decided it was about time I read something by Faulkner. I knew nothing about Faulkner or Yoknapatawpha or The Compsons. All I knew was that he'd been compared to some of my favorite Southern writers: Tennessee Williams, Capote, and Barry Hannah. I am ever grateful that I read &quot;The Sound And The Fury.&quot; I haven't been authentically moved in such a long time while reading. Reading each section is like reading a new book. I kept forgetting this was the same book. I've seen from the other reviews on Amazon.com that a lot of people have complained about the difficulty and stream-of-conscieness technique of the book. Well, all I can say is yes it is, I almost stopped reading this book half way through Benjy section but you have to work at it and the end result will be an amazing experience and great insight. I'm very tired of such lazy readers these days, they read ten pages of &quot;Ulysses&quot; and cry because they don't get the plot. If you really pay attention to the various scenes occurring throughout the Bengy sections you'll see reoccurring ones and by the end, you should be able to isolate each scene and understand it somewhat. I personally find the Quentin section the hardest to fathom. Rich in detail and thoughts often drifting one into the other. The ending of his section is perfection! It sums up the absurdities of life that is equal to Beckett and Camus. The Jason section shows the brutal side of The Compsons and the South. Once again showing how amazing Faulkner can shift view points so quickly and perfectly. The final section is told by the author but revolves mostly around the African-American slaves and Jason and Quentin's (Caddy's daughter) feud. I normally despise Cliff Notes but with this novel, they may be essential to most readers. The best part of the Cliff Notes is that they fully break down Bengy's section, scene-by-scene. Oh and make sure you get a copy of &quot;The Sound And The Fury&quot; that has Faulkner's appendix at the end. &quot;The Sound And The Fury&quot; is a story of struggle that touches the human heart and gives the reader fascinating insight into the human condition. Faulkner makes all his characters human, even the most repulsive like Jason Compson. Faulkner once said that he was just a man that tells folk tales and these tales bring us back to the impact of myth and reminds us of the fundamental human need to communicate and affect someone. Faulkner has deeply affected me spiritually and intellectually. I hope everyone will give this novel a chance sometime in their life. I've already started to dive into &quot;As I Lay Dying&quot; and I rarely read an author's work one after another.	2001-08-26
US	52528129	R24YYQKOERMZD2	0844238120	69861446	Teach Yourself Latin Dictionary	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Best portable Latin reference	This book should be more appropriately titled &quot;Latin Reference&quot; for it is not only a dictionary but has a full reference too all the declensions, conjugations, tenses, pronouns, numerals etc. The dictionary is the best of all the pocket Latin dictionaries I've encountered. It features a lot of words that are very obscure in nature and words that have been censored by other dictionaries like the Latin word for  &quot;Tail.&quot; It also features a list of Proper Names as in Country/City names and a Person's name such as Caesar. The main dictionary section features both a &quot;Latin to English&quot; and a &quot;English to Latin&quot; which makes translating and creating your own sentences much easier. This book is the ideal reference that is &quot;pocket sized.&quot; I carry &quot;Teach Yourself Latin: Latin Dictionary&quot; with me everywhere for quick reference. However don't expect it to teach you new lessons, it is fundamentally a reference. Look to Wheelock's Latin or Moreland and Fleischer's &quot;Latin: An Intensive Course&quot; for learning Latin.	2001-08-10
US	52528129	R2S0Z5WARXOFBS	0805210946	772142383	What Nietzsche Really Said	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good for the casual reader	No other philosopher in Western civilization has been more widely read, misunderstood, and most talked about than Nietszche. Every time Nietzsche is brought up anywhere; there is bound to be a fight. Some people claim he was insane his whole life and that his work should not be taken seriously and most atheist will call him their Godfather while he was much more complicated than to just label him an atheist. Nonetheless, &quot;What Nietzsche Really Said&quot; by Robert C. Solomon and Kathleen M. Higgin's(Both philosophy professors) main objective is to clear up the rumors surrounding Nietzsche life and explain what Nietzsche really meant. Depending on how much you've read or know about Nietzsche will be the deciding factor of weather you like or dislike this book. Scholars of Nietzche or someone who wants a complex and through study of Nietzche would be better suited with one of Walter Kuafman's books on Nietzsche. &quot;What Nietzsche Really Said&quot; is better suited for someone who knows nothing about Nietzsche, has little knowledge of philosophy, and wants to know where to start and how to understand Nietszche's work. <br />The best feature of the book is the Rumors section. It objectively tries to crush all the rumors surrounding Nietszhe's life and work. Everything from his work supposedly inspiring Hitler to hating women to having an affair with Wagner's wife. I tip my hats to the authors for doing that. I also liked the outline of his books. However the &quot;Nietszche said God Is Dead&quot; and &quot;War On Morality&quot; chapters I didn't really like. The book tries to make Nietszche look too good and politically correct then he was, I wish the book would've just displayed the facts and let the reader make their own conclusion.	2001-07-28
US	52528129	R12760WVU4J1O3	0140187723	762099645	Martin Eden (Penguin American Library)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Jack London's Magnum Opus	This definitely isn't the type of a book I would expect from Jack London but in my opinion should be regarded higher in achievement of his work, even more than &quot;Call of The Wild.&quot; While &quot;Call of the Wild&quot; is just concerned with the Spencerian and Darwinian 'Survival Of The Fittest' side of Jack London; &quot;Martin Eden&quot; represents the many sides of London: The poet, lover, seaman, self-willed individualist, philosopher, socialist and tormented writer. After reading &quot;Martin Eden,&quot; all I can say I am angered that this book isn't considered an American classic. I would say it is in rival with Eugene O'Neill's finest moments.<br />I do not want to dwell so much on the plot because I do admit the plot is nothing new but it is the writing that counts. Simply put it, it is about a seaman who gets turned onto the world of class and literature and rigorously fights for mastering both worlds by spending all hours of the day and being frugal with money to achieve his dreams. As we later see, Martin Eden realizes the falsehoods of The American Dream and Individualism. While the back of the book claims that this book is an attack on Individualism, that is very curious because Jack London himself aside from being a Socialist, was an individualist and adapted the Nietzchean idea of Will to Power. This book was written around the time of &quot;The Iron Heel&quot; so I suspect London was going through his socialist days. This is such great writing that I would never consider myself an individualist but I felt myself throughout the book inspired of Martin Eden's will power and ambition. As a writer, I wanted to send my work to magazines after reading &quot;Martin Eden.&quot; <br />&quot;Martin Eden&quot; is truly an American masterpiece of Literature and should be more widely read. Anyone who still thinks Jack London is a writer for kids and Darwinists must read &quot;Martin Eden&quot; and you shall see that his was an indispensable writer in all regards.	2001-07-28
US	52528129	R1I6VLSXE3DM7B	0895267462	835931498	Red Horizons: The True Story of Nicolae and Elena Ceausescus' Crimes, Lifestyle, and Corruption	Books	5	27	31	N	N	THE book to read about the Ceausescus' regime in Romania	After performing scenes from Churchill's play &quot;Mad Forest,&quot; I wanted to learn more about Ceausescu and Romania and found &quot;Red Horizons&quot; was one of the few books in the market on the subject. After reading this book I better understood &quot;Mad Forest&quot; and am shocked that Ceausescu will probably never appear in a History textbook or mentioned after '89. <br />Even if you don't like Historical nonfiction, you will love this book and it will truly hold your attention. It is not just a book of facts but written by the man who led Ceausescu's Intelligence agency during his regime. One must wonder how he could go along with Ceausescu's regime and still live with it today but nonetheless it is worth reading. The feeling you get from &quot;Red Horizons,&quot; when reading it is not so much an account of dates and facts but a feel of the day to do atrocities and the Ceausescus cowardice and filthy nature. It is almost like reading Macbeth and you shutter to think this actually happened. <br />This book should be read by anyone who has a yearning to learn about one of the worst regimes to exist after WW2.	2001-07-21
US	52528129	R2IHWCSRLNBIC5	0679746986	184382387	Stella Adler on Ibsen, Strindberg, and Chekhov	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Insightful and inspring but from one perspective only	This is definitely a theater must. Stella Adler, probably one of the best American acting teachers talking about three of the greatest playwrights (Ibsen, Strindberg, and Chekhov) ever. It is hard where to categorize this book for it points out ways (or I should say one way for Chekhov) to approach the plays of these Playwrights to the Actor but it is also very academic and analytic of the plays at the same time. Most of the entries, broadly discuss the play going from the actor's point of view to the directors to historical facts to the author's life etc. It is very insightful and inspring but There is only one problem I have with this book is her aggressive assumption that the only approach to Chekhov can be through Stanlisvaski's method and any other way is wrong. Now I agree that Stanislavski goes hand in hand with the Realism period but as Chekhov himself said &quot;I wrote vaudevilles and Stanlisvaski has staged them as sentimental dramas&quot;. What is my point? That in theatre you cannot approach everything from one school of thought. We in the Theatre fight too much about Technique instead of moving audiences and transforming them. Still though, this book is worth reading and has great insights on these three playwrights.	2001-07-21
US	52528129	R3CMTF1SAO6EHM	157062142X	104040888	Shambhala Guide to Yoga	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Like the others said, great introduction to Yoga!	When looking for books on Yoga, I had no idea where to start and I didn't want to read some...American trying to cash in book. I saw this book and it seemed real. Wow, I'm glad this is the first book I read on Yoga. Georg Feurstein fully knows and understands the essence of Yoga. The book touches on everything from the history of Yoga to a Yogi's diet. I like how Feurstein always refers back to the old Sanskrit texts of Yogi practices. However, if you are looking for a book where you  actually do the postures then look for another book because this book doesn't satisfy that. You should read all you can about Yoga before attempting it, I know my presumptions on Yoga have been changed from reading this book.	2001-07-06
US	52528129	R2S3VXGAULHZP2	0806509023	82094697	Existentialism and Human Emotion (A Philosophical Library Book)	Books	5	190	192	N	N	An easy to grasp outline of Existentialism	Reading Jean-Paul Sartre's &quot;Existentialism and Human Emotions&quot; is a much easier approach to understanding Sartre's philosophy than reading Sartre's more concentrated work such as &quot;Being and Nothingness.&quot; Although I think the best introduction to Sartre is through reading &quot;Nausea&quot; and the plays. This book tries to explain what Existentialism is and what it tries to do. Sartre also defends Existentialism against attacks on it by other Philosophies and the public that often assumes Existentialism is a sad philosophy; giving man no meaning and leads him to nihilistic despair. On the contrary, Sartre says that Existentialism is the only way to give man meaning and dignity. The book also touches on the idea of Man wanting to be God in a world where God does no exist. Sartre at the end gives a quick summing up of Existential Psycho-anaylis. A basic thesis of this work could be explained as the following: &quot;Man is free when in total involvement and action and from Freedom man has an ultimate responsibility he must follow as his actions have to do with all mankind.&quot; <br />I would recommend &quot;Existentialism and Human Emotions&quot; to anyone who wants to understand Existentialism without getting a headache from reading more complicated works(i.e. &quot;Being and Nothingness,&quot; Heideggar etc..) I am an avid reader of Philosophy and I always refer back to this book when pondering a question about Existentialism. A must for anyone who is interested in Philosophy.	2001-06-30
US	52528129	RLCAR0U9L9UVZ	0486270629	373448324	A Doll's House (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The start of Realism	When Ibsen's &quot;A Doll's House&quot; came out, it would be a start of a new revolution in the theatre. Science and Society was changing so the theatre had to change too. Instead of seeing Kings and Historical figures on the stage, we would see the common person and their role in society and their environment. Everything(Dialouge, props, acting etc.) would be all Real and be as if the audience were looking through a keyhole in these peoples lives and the people unaware of the audience. Audiences now would see a &quot;slice of life.&quot; Ibsen's &quot;A Doll's House&quot; along with Strindberg's &quot;Miss Julie&quot; would establish the Realism movement and inspire the future of playwrights such as Chekhov, Shaw, Wilde, O'Neill etc...<br />&quot;A Doll's House&quot; is a play about the role of women in Ibsen's time. Nora who struggles to bring happiness to her family. When her husband Torvald is sick, Nora borrows money from a co-worker(Krogstad) at her husband's bank to pay for a trip to heal her husband. The play takes place after this trip and we see that Torvald is restored to full health. Torvald treats Nora just like a doll and nothing more. We find out that Nora secretly is saving up to pay back the money she borrowed by buying cheaper clothes or not eating. An old friend named Mrs.Linde comes to Helmer's house in search for a job and Nora persuades her husband to let Mrs.Linde have a job at his bank. Meanwhile Krogstad comes to visit and hears this. He is very afraid that his position is at risk and thinks Torvald will fire him. He tells Nora that if she doesn't convince her husband to keep his job, he'll tell her husband of her borrowing money. This sets up the conflict and the way Nora deals with it, is not the traditional way a character like hers might in previous plays. If you have not read the play and don't want the ending spoiled don't read on.<br />After Torvald finds out, instead of Torvald being thankful for his wife for trying to save her husband for a dreadful illness, he is furious and says he will be humiliated and torn by Society when they find out what his wife did. We the audience/reader think that it is all over for Nora, that Torvald will leave her and she will be a cast out. Instead in Act 3, in a moment of epiphany Nora's whole life goes past her. She realizes that her whole life she has just been a doll in a doll house passed down from her father to Torvald. She tells Torvald how hard she has tried to be a good wife and build a family but it won't work. She decides to leave Torvald. This action went against all the traditional values at the time and sparked a revolution. Ibsen showed the world a reality, society didn't want to see. Nora leaving Torvald was unheard of at the time and that is why &quot;A Doll's House&quot; is so important. <br />Ibsen's &quot;A Doll's House&quot; aside from starting Realism, is just a well written piece. Anyone who loves literature or theater must read it. Ibsen from &quot;A Doll's House&quot; would question the role of people in Society and question authority like no other playwright before him had.	2001-01-20
US	52528129	R24C5ZCWOQ51OG	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	3	9	14	N	N	You'll either like it or hate it..I'm split	I picked up &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; by Ernest Hemmingway after I read the original New York Time's review of Jack Kerouac's &quot;On The Road&quot;(My favorite book) comparing the novel to &quot;The Sun Also Rises.&quot; The two books had very little in common but I won't go into that. &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; is Hemmingway's tale of his lost generation of rich kids who fought in World War 1 and now do nothing but travel, eat, and go to clubs. The book's subject is a very fascinating one and the reason that kept me reading. However, Hemmingway half way through the novel starts to bore us and turns us from the novel instead of getting us interested in the characters. Judging from the split reviews I've read on Amazon, I've concluded you'll either be bored with this book or think it is a masterpiece.<br />The novel starts us out with Jack, a wounded ex World War 1 soilder who spends his better days hanging out in Paris Cafes and nightclubs. We are also introduced to Robert; an old school friend of Jack's and despised by others around him for being a Jew. Robert is an outsider of Jack's group always trying to fit in and cursed out by the group (I'll get to that later.) We also meet Brett, Jack's-I believe ex-girlfriend- who never knows weather she loves Jack or not. People believe that she is one of the best female heroine's in 20th cent. Literature. The group with a few others decides to go to Spain and see the bullfighting. In Spain, we think the characters will somehow be changed or come to terms with their lifestyle but it is pretty much the same as their lives in Paris. Even, the bullfighting just seems like a ho-hum experience to Jack and his friends.<br />Your average chapter in the book is something along these lines...Jack wakes up with a hangover around noon and quickly goes down for breakfast with his friends, Robert comes around and everyone yells at him, When Robert leaves everyone says anti-Semitic comments about him, Jack listens indifferently, everyone decides to meet at a place for dinner, everyone takes a nap then goes to dinner, they all order expensive wine and insult Robert more, they go to a club, Brett and Jack end up going back to their places, Brett is about to make love but then doesn't, jack falls asleep drunk. The whole process is repeated over and over through the book. Hemmingway writes in a repetition and simple tone. It all depends on your taste in the style of writing. I personally don't mind because I like Brett Easton Ellis and he has the same style; but with &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; it annoyed me because the novel was too long for it and these characters were too well-developed for that style. This novel deserved more depth and detail to it.<br />One part that I could not stand in the novel was the harshness of the characters towards Robert. Ok understand that I know it's a novel and reflecting the times but this novel just went too overboard. Every time Robert came in, I just wanted to flip past that part of the book. Hemmingway depicts these scenes in a distasteful manner that turned me off and I'm not easily stirred by writing.<br />In the end, I felt let down because no changes happened to the character lives and the conflict never changed. Why go through all the trouble if it's just Much ado about nothing? The novel was good however, in portraying the time period and &quot;the lost generation&quot; of the WW1 generation. That I give Hemmingway credit for. &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; is worth your time and like I said; you'll either hate or love it. Overall I gave it three stars because I neither hated nor loved it.	2000-12-23
US	52528129	RW0B05XAN8GNM	0375706720	106246971	An Acrobat of the Heart: A Physical Approach to Acting Inspired by the Work of Jerzy Grotowski	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Every actor should read this book.	Stephen Wangh, a former student of Grotowski and now a teacher of Experimental theater shares his knowledge in this inspiring and well written book. First of all, I want to say that you really need to have a teacher and be in a group to learn Grotowski's physical acting better. Grotowksi's work can also be very challenging and confussing at times and this book really helps guide you through it. The book follows a group of Stephen Wangh's first students through his training. That is what makes the book better then your average acting text book. You take a journey along with these people while learning the Grotowski method. As an actor I could relate to the actors frustrations and fears and in the book we see them overcome them. The book explains everything from what clothes to wear to voice work. I am glad Wangh added a section at the end of the book about how to deal with and survive acting. Very few people talk about this subject and it needs to be brought up more. I read this book before I was about to start working on a play and it re-inspired me and made me more discplined and focused. Stephen Wang also isn't self centered and basically says that do what you have to do to do the role you're playing good but try this method. The book is very well-thought out and easy to understand. Any actor should read this even if they think they know the Grotowski method.	2000-12-09
US	52528129	RIMDP95H5SCTR	0812090500	840930627	501 Latin Verbs (501 Verbs Series)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Good for beginning Latin students but why only 501 verbs?	This book is a very good resource. I am a first year Latin student so far and I've used this book a lot. It's best use is for conjugation tests and learning new forms. Whenever I'm confussed about an ending for a verb, I look in this book. My only problem is why did they stop at 501? It gets frustrating when you can't find a certain verb and the selection isn't really the most useful verbs. Bottom line is that this book is good for people who are first getting into Latin but try getting a Latin dictionary too. Of course this shouldn't be a subsitute for learning the material.	2000-12-09
US	52528129	RA9RMFT6802PM	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The struggle of an artist	My Name Is Asher Lev is an amazing book that shows the power of Art and the price of struggle that goes along with it. The book is about a boy named Asher Lev who is born in a heavy religious family and has an amazing gift to paint and communicate his suffering and joys of the world. Asher Lev has to struggle as his religion (his father mostly) won't permit his work but he can't stop painting, he has an undying need to. Like any other Artist he struggles within himself and brings his personal life to public hurting those close to him. At the end of the novel, Asher Lev pays the ultimate price.<br />Being an actor I could relate to Asher Lev's struggle though I have been lucky to have accepting parents and no religious pressure put upon me. Still any artist has as much conflict and most are destroyed. Asher Lev seems to be very mute and lives in his own world and the conflict consists of the outsiders reaching into his world and tearing him away from his soul. If only people could sit down and talk with the artist and try to understand. Chaim Potok must've had the same struggle growing up and it's obviously shown here. <br />The book is well written and as far as content an easy read. All the characters and situations are believable and real to life. The ending I thought fell a little flat after a big event but I will have to read &quot;The Gift Of Asher Lev&quot;, the second novel to really decide that more thoroughly. I recommend this book to anyone. Great work Chaim Potok, I'll be reading more of his books in the future.	2000-11-28
US	52528129	R4PTP9AIXBKYN	0486406563	229335329	The Sea Gull (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This is Chekhov's REAL Masterpiece	I still can never figure out why &quot;The Cherry Orchard&quot; is hailed as his masterpiece and put in all the Drama anthologies to represent his work. To me &quot;Ivanov&quot;, &quot;The Sea Gull&quot; and &quot;Uncle Vanya&quot; are his great works. &quot;The Sea Gull&quot; however ranks on the top of my list as his best work. A tragic tale of the meaning of love and being an artist with comic tones and timeless characters. All of the emotions and situations are realistic to real life. The play is more personal and has more meaning than average Realism. The first time I saw &quot;The Sea Gull&quot; I fell in love with it so much I saw it the next day again. It's one of the rare four act plays that I can enjoy the whole performance and not be bored. Anyone who wants to see Chekhov's brilliance should read this play and the others I mentioned.	2000-10-28
US	52528129	RBVDWDJM8IRX9	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A lost classic....The real Spanish Civil War	I was surprised when I heard about this title and couldn't find it at any  of my bookstores..I didn't find it until I went to Blackwell's( Book  heaven) in Oxford on a trip. Orwell is one of the great writers and  &quot;Homage To Catatonia&quot; needs to get more attention.<br />    The book  shows Orwell gong to Spain as a journalist but than being drawn into the  Republican fight against the fascists and joins the republican side. At the  time the warfare is light and Orwell almost describes fighting as a joke  but as time goes on the war goes to the streets and a regime of terror is  released.<br />    I won't go in big detail but the main reason this book  should be read is to show the not so glorious side of the republicans( the  anarchists and communists often fighted on their own side) and the faults  that led to Franco's winning. Last of all for Orwell's writing and to see  where he got his ideas which would lead him to his later masterpieces. I  will conclude this review by repeating what Timothy Garton Ash said  &quot;Anyone who wants to understand the twentieth century will still have  to read Orwell&quot;	2000-08-04
US	52528129	R3JN1WDRADN2B	0553211447	735273407	Notes From Underground	Books	5	2	4	N	N	This is one of my favorites	This novel spoke greatly to me. Dostoevsky uses a great structure for writing and makes a great complex charector( and no his not so empty that you wonder if his alive or dead). The story is in two parts( One part  Solitude and the other the past when the charector was living in the real  world). I don't want to tell any of the story because I didn't read  anything about this book before I read it and was happy I did. So I'll just  say this is one the best book I've read in awhile and this is a russian  literature classic.	2000-07-06
US	52528129	R1C1DB3IHNPKNL	0140168125	146741920	Big Sur	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Kerouac's most honest and raw work	This novel marked the close end to Kerouac. Kerouac was controlled by alcohol and depression. He hopes to find peace in a cabin in the Big Sur(Which I went to just a few weeks and is very beautiful). There he is  just tortured by his own thoughts from too much alcohol. In this time  Kerouac looks back at his outgoing &quot;On The Road&quot; backpacking days  and begs for mercy in his own misery. The main reason I love this novel  besides Kerouac's honesty and splendid writing is the message it has on  contemporey america. 10 years after &quot;On The Road&quot; and as the 60's  unfold so does the destruction of friendly america. Kerouac can barley  hitchike because of america's new fear of the hitchiker being a criminal.  This is a very symbolic point of how friendly america was and now how  everyone lives in fear. We also are re-visited with Kerouac's &quot;On the  Road&quot; hero &quot;Dean Moritatey&quot;, Who is still wild and hyper but  with a family. Kerouac slowly starts to crack for a short while in Big Sur  and we see some of Kerouac's most haunting writing ever. This novel also  includes a poem Kerouac wrote called &quot;Sea&quot; which translates the  sound of the ocean into speaking english. It is tedious yet fascinating at  the same time. &quot;Big Sur&quot; remains a potrait of a troubled writer  who struggles with society and alcohol addiction. This book should be read  by all, However it is not a good to start as an intro to Kerouac( Atleast  read &quot;On The Road&quot; first). This may be Kerouac's best work since  &quot;On The Road&quot;.	2000-06-23
US	52528129	R1YPJR9D0KXEXJ	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Must read	I recieved this book as a gift for a birthday. I happen to be a huge music fan and this book spoke to me. Every charector in this book is true to life and the people in the record store are classic. Anyone who shops at record  stores and hangs around geeks knows how conversations about which is better  Mono or Stereo get. I related to Rob's view on life. What Can I say? Most  entertaining book I've read since &quot;Trainspotting&quot;	2000-05-05
