US	52527148	R1OZRYS92WW05Y	0152164065	732173203	Whoever You Are (Reading Rainbow Books)	Books	4	78	80	N	Y	All the world's children have the same wants and needs	I am a Lutheran church librarian and I am glad I bought this very satisfactory book for our church library.  Its text stresses that children are the same the world over.  They have the same feelings and needs, and have the same hopes and dreams.  The illustrations are a nice change from the usual.  Each page is surrounded by a gold picture frame in which faux jewels are embedded.  The illustrations appear to be tempera or opaque watercolor, drawn in Persian style.  The colors are very saturated.  The book's cover gives you an idea of what they look like.  The message of this book is one of diversity--that even though children live in different parts of the world and may have different nationalities, races, ethnicities, languages or faiths, they still have the same hopes, dreams and daily needs.  This is a very important message for children to hear in today's world where there is so much suspicion of those we \\"perceive\\" to be different.  The more children realize that kids are the same everywhere, the more tolerant they will be.  Children pick up prejudice by the time they are three years of age, say researchers, so you have to nip it in the bud very early, and this book does that in a wonderful way.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R3U8XTB1EA4W5C	0689852355	391916749	Turn! Turn! Turn! (Book and CD)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Wonderful book and CD set	This book's text is the famous song based on the verses from Ecclesiastes.  The illustrations are full of interesting things to explore in repeated readings. There is a page at the end of the book that tells Seeger's story of how he wrote the song and how it was first recorded.  The compact disc is a delight--it has Seeger's very simple, self-accompanied banjo rendition performed in concert, followed by the Byrd's rock rendition.  I bought this for our Lutheran church library and I know the kids will enjoy it.  My husband, a Jewish baby-boomer also got a big kick out of the compact disc.  Enjoy!	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R3LA8030TJKQ4K	1584300507	721620907	Rainbow Joe and Me	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Diversity of characters lovely	I am a Lutheran church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library.  It is colorful and well-written.  I like the feeling of neighborliness expressed in this book.  So often we ignore our neighbors in our busy lives, but here, neighbors are seen as valuable, colorful people who have different talents and skills.  A child loves art.  A blind man loves music.  The two share and appreciate one another's talents.  How nice for children to read about brotherhood and togetherness.  A lovely book which is simple but intriguing!   <br /> <br />We have a blind member of our church and this book helps the kids in our congregation realize that people can have different traits, gifts and challenges, yet we all have the same feelings, hopes, dreams and wishes.  Thank you to Maria Diaz Strom.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R172ST9LQ3SCVB	0915811847	113625179	Good Night God	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Religious "Goodnight Moon"	This delightful accessible storybook for toddlers is similar to \\"Goodnight Moon\\" (which all little ones adore) except it has a religious slant.  A little boy goes through his evening routine and says goodnight to all the animals in the park, etc. and ends by saying goodnight to God.  The text is in verse form which little ones find appealing and which enhances their vocabulary and word skills. I bought this for our Lutheran church library and I know the little kids will love it. Lovely brilliant illustrations.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	RJBQ1WQZY2QQX	0060934824	646651339	Dark Midnight When I Rise: The Story of the Fisk Jubilee Singers	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Fascinating look at early gospel choral music	I am a Lutheran Church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library.  This is a detailed fascinating look at the foundation of Fisk University and how its Jubilee Singers raised money for their college at a cost of superhuman personal dedication and hardship.  If only we had recordings of this group!  The beauty of their music made grown men weep! <br /> <br />Those who are interested in choral singing, in the post-Civil War era, or in the development of traditionally-black  universities will find much to enjoy in this book.  It so well expresses the era in which the Jubilee Singers sang, the racism they stood against, the effects of their singing on audiences, personality conflicts within the group, how they even sang on street corners for spare change, toured in Europe, performed for heads of state and monarchs, etc.  Just a neat book that evokes the time about which it was written in so many ways.  <br /> <br />   <br /> <br />   <br />	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R1R5FSHZXRAHH4	0375905979	115697877	Jefferson's Children: The Story of One American Family	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	A fascinating re-definition of the word "family"	I am a Lutheran church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library.  I feel it has very important things to say about the definition of family.  A family can be a traditional nuclear family with a mom, dad and 2.3 kids.  It can have two mothers, two fathers, step-parents, and grandparents.  The people in the family can be of all different races.  They do do not even have to be biologically related since they can be adopted.  I want my parishioners to realize all this.  A family is defined as \\"a group of people who love and support one another.\\"  If a particular family does not match your traditional particular concept of family, GET USED TO IT!   <br /> <br />I was raised to appreciate and enjoy history, and I first  visited Monticello as a middle-schooler.  This book is particularly interesting in that it fleshes out the individuals who made up the family of Monticello, white, black and every shade in between.  Thank you, Shannon Lanier, for writing this family history.  It is a very important historical statement besides being a fascinating family genealogy.  Since we have no photos of Jefferson, I especially enjoyed studying the faces of his descendants in these photos--one or two seem to be the spitting image of him.   <br /> <br />As to whether Jefferson was a god or not, no he was not.  He was human and had failings and gifts just like anyone else.  He was a product of his time.  That meant he did certain things indicative of that time.  So what?  It just makes him a more interesting person to me.  Does it really help us to try to judge him by today's standards?   All we can really do is to examine the man in the context of his time.  This book can be enjoyed by both teens and adults and will especially interest those who liked Jefferson, the colonial era, or who like genealogy.  <br />	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R28ALILZHDWZ78	0746027532	541781696	The Roman Record: Hot News from the Swirling Mists of Time (Newspaper Histories Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Learn Roman history while laughing yourself silly!	I am a Lutheran Church librarian and bought this book for our library so that late elementary and middle school kids could learn about the historical period in which Christ lived. It is hilarious.  Even the most reluctant readers will learn history painlessly while laughing themselves silly.  They'll read the chariot race scores, fashion updates about togas, and study the realty ads for Roman villas.  The headlines are very very funny!  (Julius Ceasar's death is headlined, \\"Julius Caesar: A Nation Mourns: Knife-Fight Wipeout Ends Brilliant Career.\\"  So funny.  Another headline reads, \\"We're Revolting, says Rebel Rabble.\\"  Well, I guess SO!  In more ways than one.  This is a terrific book. The format is tall and narrow and thin like a real newspaper.  Full color.  Kind of like a historical Roman \\"Mad\\" magazine.  Excellent book.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R34BD2WW8WQV3H	0316233374	480745143	What's Wrong with Timmy?	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Great book for church library	I am a Lutheran Church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library.  It stresses that though we may have different traits and characteristics we are all worthy of love, respect and human dignity.  It discusses a mentally-challenged little boy and how he can be a good playmate even though he is a little slow.  So what?  He is still a persdon worthy of dignity and acceptance.  This book stresses kindness on a personal level and a live-and-let-live attitude.  This is a vital life lesson for our children to learn early on, and is a great conversation starter.  This book will help cut down on bullying, marginalization and dehumanization of the mentally and physically challenged among us.  After all, who among us does  not have some sort of shortcoming?  Children need to know that perfection is an impossibility and so they should expect people to do the best job they can but not expect perfection in themselves or others.  The illustrations appear to be done in pastels and are very attractive.  Great Job, Maria!  Keep them coming!	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R16RKID6RXO37N	0316666033	224813157	It's Okay To Be Different	Books	4	99	104	N	Y	Children DO deal with these issues	I am a Lutheran Church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library. I think the work of every child is to figure out where he/she fits in the world.  Why are some people this way and others that way?  Is one way right and one way wrong?  As we grow older we realize that there is right and wrong and also many shades of grey.  We call this ethics.  That is not really what this book is about.  This book is about differences that children perceive and wonder about: differences in appearance--tall, short, chubby, thin, physical challenges, racial differences, and silly little things like freckles or hair color or wearing braces or glasses.  I think Parr's heart is definitely in the right place.  He tries to send to our kids a message of acceptance of these sorts of superficial differences but which kids (and adults) often blow way out of proportion.  He's trying to at least let all kids begin life on an even playing field.  Instead of seeing such traits and characteristics as detriments this book recommends that we just consider them unique traits and no big deal.  This is a good message.     <br /> <br />Most of the reviewers who dislike this book take it as a comment on ethics when I do not think that is really what it is meant to comment on.  We all know that there are things that are right (telling the truth, being good peaceful neighbors, etc.)  and things that are definitely wrong (lying, taking a weapon to school, child abuse, etc.)  But this book is not about that.    It is on a much, much simpler level.  Since most children learn bigotry and prejudice by the age of THREE (!) it is imperative that we \\"bigot-proof\\" them very early in their lives, preferably before they begin school.  This is a book meant for early childhood, when children become more aware of differences and wonder about them.  Just take it at that level.  And if you do not like to eat macaroni in the bathtub, then for heaven's sake, discuss it with your child!!!  That is whatbooks are for--to promote dialogue and thought.  If eating macaroni in the bathtub is the oddest thing your kid ever does in life, you do not have a very curious or flexible child!   <br /> <br />As a former art teacher, I like the bold colors and drawings--very nice.  I think most kids who read this book come away with a rather happy attitude about the message.  Most would probably think it whimsical with a hint of truth.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R2WQIHVHYYOODG	0399233172	250903208	Sacred Places	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Gorgeous book for church libraries	I am a Lutheran Church librarian in Florida who bought this book for our church library.  It is wonderful! Read the other reviewers' comments about the text.  What struck me most as a former art teacher are the fabulous paper-cut and assembled illustrations!  I also love the contrast between a small New England church and the Dome of the Rock, for example.  Or all the tiny figures encircling the Kaaba.  Wow!  This is simply a superb book.  If I were wealthy enough to collect my favorite children's books, this would be among them.  Children will love the text and lose themselves in the paper-cut illustrations.  Top-notch book!	2004-12-27
US	52527148	R3T5U1WOAWHHCR	0664227074	783536885	Credo	Books	5	51	54	N	Y	This book indicts us to be compassionate and merciful	I am a Lutheran Church librarian who bought this book for our church library.  The beauty of this book is that the reader can turn to any chapter or page and just begin reading. Many of my parishioners are not big readers and only have high school educations, so this book is more attractive to them than a tome with chapter after chapter of dry theology.  This book stresses how to turn faith into activism to change the world for the better.  It is inspirational and thought-provoking. <br /> <br />Coffin is no light-weight as one hysterical right-wing reviewer suggests.  He has been Yale University's chaplain, minister of Riverside church in Manhattan, and is now working for nuclear disarmament.  I believe he was also active in the civil rights movement if I remember correctly.  Yes, he is liberal and thank God for that!  Once CAN be religious and liberal at the same time!  The two go hand in hand.  It is refreshing to hear a minister, a person of faith, INDICT us to truly love our neighbor even if we perceive him to be \\"different\\" from us; to remember the poor and work to help them; to protest when our nation goes in the wrong direction.  This is an excellent book for those who are sick and tired of George Bush's brand of \\"compassionate conservatism\\" in which he tries to relegate gays to second-class citizenship, believes that wholesale murder of innocent Iraqis will lead to a democratic peace in that nation, and who puts our nation in jeopardy through corrupt and wasteful stewardship of our national finances and the environment, etc.  There is a lot here to think about and work toward.	2004-12-27
US	52527148	RE7SE4266VSTY	0140296166	736324468	Colleges That Change Lives: 40 Schools You Should Know About Even If You're Not a Straight-A Student	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	Excellent but also read other college guides	This is an excellent book about lesser-known yet excellent colleges.  It does not include those in the west.  DO read this book with a grain of salt, though.  The author praises these schools so much that you have to read other college guides in order to get a more balanced view.  For example, He rightly praises Hampshire College for its fine film department (Ken Burns is an alum) but he does not tell you how isolated it is or the fact that there are a lot of drugs on campus.  So DO read at least four other guides besides this one.  Do your homework and compare write-ups in all the guides to get a balanced view.  Definitely visit campuses before you decide where to apply or go to.  Otherwise this is an excellent book with a great deal of useful information.	2004-11-17
US	52527148	R1ZWI0IZ5X3V2P	0399240284	166339357	On Noah's Ark	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Lovely book for church libraries	This is another lovely book by Jan Brett.  The artwork is wonderful and the text is from the viewpoint of Noah's grandson.  I bought this for our church library and am glad I did.  I also suggest \\"Naamah: The Story of Noah's Wife\\" by Sandy Eisenberg Sasso for little girls.  It stresses Naamah's job in preserving seeds and plants for use after the flood, and makes the Noah story less of a \\"men did the whole thing\\" story.  Women were there too and obviously did a lot of work in saving the family and animals, too.	2004-11-17
US	52527148	R9TAMSHV9TH10	1843100983	483973419	Freaks, Geeks and Asperger Syndrome: A User Guide to Adolescence	Books	5	16	17	N	N	All teachers should read this book!	Luke, the young writer of this book, has done an excellent job in showing what goes on in the minds of kids with Asperger's syndrome and also to some extent, autism.  I am a former art teacher and never read up on such conditions,however, every teacher, especially school coaches, should read this book because Luke has some very specific advice for them in relation to teaching, especially teaching AS kids athletics.  I could relate to his chapters on bullying--my son was a very bright boy, an early reader, who was constantly taunted in junior high school for being &quot;gifted.&quot;  He would sometimes come home in tears and only after an hour of watching Star Trek reruns could he calm down and feel the relief of being home from school.  NOw he is graduating from Harvard, so the joke is definitely on the bullies who are now janitors.  Ha, ha!  So I know where Luke is coming from about bullying.  Never let them beat you, Luke.  You are a marvelous, very gifted young man who will go very far in life. You just be YOU and never waver from that.  If friends come into your life, it will be because they like YOU and not some false idea of a different you. You should never have to change for people to like you.  God bless and I hope to hear more about you in future books.  I want to read more about AS and autism, too.  Thank you for your wonderful contribution to AS knowledge.  People can learn so much from people like you who are not ashamed to discuss a condition they have.  Great job and as they say in England, Well done indeed.	2004-05-22
US	52527148	R2B27MQKV0N7Z2	0835809323	935178804	Growing Compassionate Kids:  Helping Kids See Beyond Their Backyard	Books	4	9	28	N	Y	Solid Christian book leaves out gays	This book has a solid Christian foundation on helping children see the world that lies beyond their doors.  The author discusses ways to help children empathize with those who have less-less food, clothing, water, medical care, etc.  Do a family mission trip, prepare health goodie bags to hand out the car window to homeless people at interstate exits, talk to homeless and street people, give them a lunch, visit the sick, help the poor, serve at a nursing facility, sponsor an exchange student, etc.  <BR>With all her talk about helping those who appear to be different, the words \\"gay\\" or \\"lesbian\\" never appear, even in the chapter called, \\"Shedding Stereotypes.\\"  Iraqis, Native Americans and so forth are named.  Why not gays?  It is as if gayness does not exist and as if millions of gay Americans are unworthy of our time.  The only times she mentions something about gayness is when she says we should help those with HIV and AIDS.  Are the only gay people we should minister to those who are sick and dying?  Considering that there is an epidemic of suicide seven times the national average among gay teens and young people, one would think that the author would stand up for gay and lesbian teens by name.  Put your compassion where your mouth is.  She should be encouraging straight teens to learn compassion by realizing that some of their peers are vilifed for a birth trait over which they have no control.  If our straight kids are not supportive and friendly to our gay kids, they are not fulfilling God's simple rule to love one another without conditions.  When straight kids befriend gay kids, they get to walk around in their shoes.  This is the quickest and best way to learn compassion and to shed bigotry and homophobia, fear of gay people.  Do not tell me that devout Christian teens do not know any gay kids.  They go to school with them every day.  And fundamentalist Christianity or political affiliation are no protection from gayness in your own family, in fact, it cangreatly impede the acceptance of your child's sexual identity should they ever \\"come out\\" to you.  Those who throw their gay kids out of the house, or disown them, are usually fundamentalist Christians, and they have learned this extremely violent attitude toward gay people in their own churches and homes!  Gay kids of these kinds of people are the ones who often commit suicide!  We want to prevent that don't we?  Isn't that why we are trying to teach our kids compassion in the first place, to prevent and end this sort of suffering?  If we wish to discuss compassion and how to make our kids more compassionate citizens, it seems to me that treating gay people with compassion is the essence of this discussion, since they are the last great scapegoats and are still so vilified by church, and government.  But the author chickens out.   <BR>The author also stuck pretty much with organizations that were church affiliated.  This makes it sound like such organizations as Amnesty International or Habitat are not as effective or helpful as working on strictly religious projects within the church.  Not so.  Protests, gay pride parades, and marches on Washington were not mentioned either.  These are great ways for kids to gain experience in what really goes on in the world, to develop compassion for and help those who have no voice.  It is our job as American patriots to point out the things we think are wrong about our nation, and make changes for the better.  That is what protests and marches are for.    <BR>Otherwise, this is a very helpful book with concrete ways for  kids to learn compassion.  It should just go farther.  This book has an excellent appendix of further resources--books, popular films,organizations, etc.	2004-04-20
US	52527148	R2AUWFGEYFRTS7	0060951044	476195762	Free Your Mind: The Book for Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Youth and Their Allies	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	An excellent book for family library	Thisis an excellent resource for the family with gay members, or for those who want to better understand gay teens, such as educators or social workers.  It is great for gay teens also.  I especially liked the sidebars which mention prominent gay people and their contributions to society.  I also very much liked the chapter on community support and their suggestions on making the schools more accepting of gay students.	2003-03-16
US	52527148	R1S72SMKNACCC8	0684844222	335692991	Cabin Fever: Rustic Style comes Home	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A lovely book for dreaming on	I have salivated over this book for several years and finally bought it.  It has great photos of log homes all over America, from the northeast to the southwest.  Some are quite famous examples of camps from the early 1900s, say, in the Adirondacks or New England.  Others are quite new.  I not only liked the way they were presented and photographed, all in color, but also enjoyed the text describing when each cabin was built, who built it and so on.  It was also very interesting to see the way each cabin was decorated, some with very beautiful artifacts, others quite utilitarian, but each with its own charm.  It is delightful to browse through the text and photos every now and then just for fun and inspiration.  I plan to display it next to a little model of a log cabin I have. If you love log cabins you will enjoy this book and find it very interesting.  A great book for the family cabin or lodge, or for those who have always wished for a log cabin like me!	2003-03-16
US	52527148	R3MPKWXTOH4O69	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Jacob's clan from the female viewpoint	This excellent historical novel was recently donated to our church library, and as librarian, I read it.  This novel tells the story of Jacob's clan in the Old Testament or Torah, from the viewpoint of Dinah, his daughter.  The story tells about what women's lives were like then, and their work in the clan, from food gathering, preparation and storage, weaving and spinning, time spent in the red tent to coincide with the lunar calendar, girls' coming of age, and child birth experiences, along with the training and practice of ancient midwifery.  <br />the Bible gives the bare bones of this story, and the novel extends it.  It contrasts the life of the nomads like Jacob's clan with the lush life of the Egyptians by the Nile, to life in the Valley of the Kings amongst the craftspeople who worked on the pharaohs' tombs.  I recommend this book especially for women, who want to know what life might have been like for women during the Old Testament in the pre-Judaism period.  The wording and vernacular make you feel you are truly back in that time. Women of all faiths will enjoy this book, and so would men.  However, the book is strictly from a female point of view to the point that the male characters are rather mysterious, sometimes loving, but sometimes chauvinistic and uncaring about the women's feelings; they order the women about, one woman in paticular is regularly beaten and abused, and women are seen strictly as servants of the men.  Within this life style, some of the women have power within the tribe, especially in ruling the lesser women like the servants and concubines, and in  female matters.  I found it very interesting and certainly widened my view of what life was like for women back then.	2002-01-14
US	52527148	R1IRZWFZBG27IH	0517558181	600212607	Santa Claus & His Elves	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Best Santa book in universe	This is the best book our family has ever seen about Santa Claus!!  I vote it ten stars, not just five.  This book is truly off the charts for its cleverness, terrific illustrations, inventiveness and sheer Christmas joy.  I do not know why some US publisher has not bought the rights and made it into the classic it deserves to be, and is in our family.  My Son was given this book at his first Christmas.  Both he and my daughter and I, their Mom, have enjoyed this book every year since then.  I would love to be able to obtain more copies of it to hand down to my grandkids and so on. It gives very detailed and often quite funny \\"true\\" information about Santa and his whole village at the North Pole.  It is quite an operation, believe me!  Santa has his sleigh but also has a fleet of red airplanes with reindeer logos on them.  The drawings are so full of detail and funny things going on that it keeps both kids and grown-ups exclaiming and laughing.  For example, birds sit on elves' noses.  Baby elves suck pacifiers.  The elf band is playing \\"Ob-la-di, ob-la da\\"; the printer elves tie up their beards around their heads so they do not get them in the ink, and in the carpenter shop, there is a sign saying, \\"safety first.\\"  There are even elves who spray paint the toys.  So hilarious, as a little animal watching this gets sprayed too.  The elf children's classroom often was intently examined by my kids.  The book is Scandinavian in origin I think, and that is why it is so hard to find now here in the USA.  The outfits and scenery, houses and huts are Norwegian or Swedish, and the costumes have all sorts of decorative Nordic touches.  Each elf seems to have a different personality.  My kids always liked the picture of the elves getting ready for bed--in their bunk house they are bedding down, and one is reading the newspaper, one is watching a portable TV, and one is about to brush his teeth.  The loner elf likes to sleep in a simple haystack--\\"to each his own,\\" my kids would always chime in with the narrative.  This book is so clever and if you can ever find it you will want to keep it forever.  It has a humorous charm that even very tiny children will enjoy, and it will win your heart.  It is unlike any other Christmas book I have ever seen in the US.  My kids are now 19 and 16 and they still get it out every holiday season to enjoy the pictures and simple story once again.  It is simply precious!d always chime in with the narrative.  This book is so clever and if you can ever find it you will want to keep it forever.  It has a humorous charm that even very tiny children will enjoy, and it will win your heart.  It is unlike any other Christmas book I have ever seen in the US.  My kids are now 19 and 16 and they still get it out every holiday season to enjoy the pictures and simple story once again.  It is simply precious!	2001-10-18
US	52527148	RTJWP2VWZE3CV	0060279028	110970504	Joy to the World	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Adorable book	This is an adorable book of Christmas stories from around the world, five stories in all from diverse cultures.  The illustrations  are very colorful and primitive in style.  I would recommend this book for ages 5-10.  I bought it for our Lutheran church library, and am glad I did.	2001-10-10
US	52527148	R1GI6JIU5PE7VA	006251623X	594916080	Is It a Choice? - 2nd edition: Answers to 300 of the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gays and Lesbian People	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Not just for gay people but ALL people	This is an excellent book for all people, not just gay people, written on a young adult to adult level.  (Marcus has a similar book written for teens called What If Someone I know is Gay?, also excellent.)  Gayness can happen in the nicest families.  So how do you deal with the dichotomy you see between that simple fact and the raging homphobia you see around you every day?  Read this book for a start and learn what gayness really is, and what it is all about.  If you arm yourself with the truth you will have a much easier time understanding this issue.  Woouldn't you rather know the truth than stumble about in ignorance?<BR>   This book is a godsend--no preaching, no moral judgments--just the simple facts which are so often denigrated as the &quot;gay agenda&quot; by anti-gay hate groups like Focus on the Family.  <BR>     If you want to learn the facts about being a potter, you go to a potter and ask questions.  If you want to know about baking bread, you do not go to the potter.   You go to a baker.  If you want to learn what it is like to be a firefighter, you go to the firehouse and ask for information, an hear what it is like to do it for a living.  Similarly, if you want the true facts about gayness you have to go to the source--gay people themselves.  As a Christian, I know that you cannot believe in fundamentalist Christian organizations that spout love and family values on one hand, and then turn around and spend millions of dollars a year in anti-gay hate campaigns. <BR>     This book is an excellent one to read if you are GLBT, if you are a relative, parent, friend or coworker of a GLBT person, if you fear gay people, and if you want the truthful facts without all the moral claptrap our society imposes.  It explodes all the myths and lies about gayness.  It also has an absolutely excellent appendix listing all sorts of web sites for human rights organizations, gay support and informational groups, and religious grassroots organizations within specific religious faiths that advocate equal rights, inclusiveness and affirmation for GLBT members of their congregations and communities.  This was very helpful because I found the organization for my particular denomination, and have made use of it. <BR>    The book is so good that I wrote Eric Marcus telling him how much the book helped me understand this issue.  I bought a copy and donated it to our church library, and have sent copies to other people who need it.  Thank you, Eric for a terrific book, and God bless you in your efforts to educate the public.  As long as one person remains in chains, none of us are free.	2001-10-10
US	52527148	RXJRVDSF67ZXR	0829412727	175108324	Momma's Enchanted Supper: Stories for the Long Evenings of Advent, A Memoir	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Not sure about this book	The stories told in this book are all right just as stories, but what do they have to do with Advent?  Not much, it seems to me.  I have read a lot of Advent meditation books, and most seem better than this.  The problem I had with this book was that in the middle of each family story (one for each day in Advent), the author stuck a small Biblical section.  This totally destroyed the flow of the family story.  It got to the point that I read the Bible story first, and then the family memoir.  The family memoirs seemed to have little correlation to the Bible stories they are supposed to illustrate.<BR>     The funniest family memoir was the one about when Nikita Khrushchev came to visit their family home.  That was a hoot.  Otherwise, they seemed kind of quirky and meaningless.  If you can get this book out of the library, fine, but I could not really recommend buying this book as an Advent Bible meditation.  The unusual title and the reviews caused me to buy it for our Lutheran church library. I would suggest Advent meditation books by Barbara Cawthorne Crafton or Walter Wangerin before I would recommend this one.  They seem to offer more meat and deeper more mature, fully-realized, and better thought-out meanings than this one.  The stories here don't seem to have a homey-ness that the title implies we will find.  I was prepared to like it a lot more than I really did.	2001-10-08
US	52527148	R19P53NBT8V5AD	0761817697	936513692	Married in the Sight of God: Theology, Ethics, and Church Debates Over Homosexuality	Books	5	0	14	N	N	Expensive book	I have not read this book.  However, from what the editorial reviews say about this book, I would like to order it for our Lutheran church library. However, it is so expensive that I must pass on it. ... seems incredibly steep for 200 pages of information.  Why does it not have a more reasonable price?  This is a very important issue for gay and lesbian Lutherans and their families and friends.  I wish it were less expensive so we could get the word out about this issue and start opening some minds.	2001-07-07
US	52527148	R3QHAAAIFY1DJP	0374404143	647788967	Annie on My Mind	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Excellent book for lesbian and straight teens	My high school daughter is questioning her sexuality, and I was looking for teen fiction that explored the theme of lesbianism without being lurid and over the top.  I read this book first before I gave it to her as a present.  Her 16 year old opinion:  the book was OK but a little lame.  I believe she felt this way because she is reading on a more advanced level.  But at least she read it and now knows that there are books about lesbian teens that have good outcomes and happy endings, and are not prurient, terribly sad, depressing, or too mature for teen readers.<br />I recommend the book for teen girls, 13-16 years old.  The characters are very well-drawn and the plot is what might happen to typical teens.  The girls meet at various places in New York, an excellent setting for such a book, with its museums and parks.  The book also explores the theme of financial classes--one girl is rather well off and goes to a private school while the other lives in a poor, dangerous part of the city and goes to a ghetto-type public school resembling a fortress or prison, yet has a happy home life with her extended family.  This is a gentle, sweet book, and the author handles the story with taste and sensitivity.<br />As another reader commented, the girls in this book are not stereotypes.  They are normal high school girls.  Lesbians come in all shapes and sizes, short hair, long hair, white, black and brown, wear all sorts of clothes, even preppy ones, with all sorts of customs, beliefs, talents and hobbies.  Sexual orientation just IS.  There are no judgments made by the author here, no punishments as part of the plot.  The characters face challenges and get through the bad times to emerge with hope for the future.  They have thought more about their sexuality and the meaning of life, and therefore seem on a more mature plane than the other high school girls.  There are some very nice boy characters, too, who support the girls as friends and school mates, because of their characters and persnonalities, and not their sexual identity.<br />I also enjoyed the two lesbian teacher characters at the rich girl's private school.  They were well-drawn and shown to be normal everyday teachers who just happen to be lesbian.  I have had such teachers who were much respected in our small town.  We need more books like this that show lesbianism as a normal variation of sexual identity.  Teen questioning, straight and lesbian girls will find that there are happy endings, and that life can be good, even when facing extraordinary challenges like society's homophobia and bigotry.<br />Lesbian middle and high school girls should never, ever be ashamed of their feelings.  This book shows girls following their feelings, learning to figure them out and trust them.  Isn't that what we all do in sorting out who we are?  Lesbian teens CAN have a happy life, so they should keep thinking about it and reading about it.  They will eventually discover the sexual identity they were born with, and will, I hope, be able to live that truth.  That is the challenge of anyone's life, and it is the theme of this book.  Moms: read this book, too, and then discuss it with your daughter.r characters and persnonalities, and not their sexual identity. <br />I also enjoyed the two lesbian teacher characters at the rich girl's private school.  They were well-drawn and shown to be normal everyday teachers who just happen to be lesbian.  I have had such teachers who were much respected in our small town.  We need more books like this that show lesbianism as a normal variation of sexual identity.  Teen questioning, straight and lesbian girls will find that there are happy endings, and that life can be good, even when facing extraordinary challenges like society's homophobia and bigotry.<br />Lesbian middle and high school girls should never, ever be ashamed of their feelings.  This book shows girls following their feelings, learning to figure them out and trust them.  Isn't that what we all do in sorting out who we are?  Lesbian teens CAN have a happy life, so they should keep thinking about it and reading about it.  They will eventually discover the sexual identity they were born with, and will, I hope, be able to live that truth.  That is the challenge of anyone's life, and it is the theme of this book.  Moms: read this book, too, and then discuss it with your daughter.	2001-06-10
US	52527148	R2NIS4DLISC8CR	0961515902	870850737	Cure Cottages of Saranac Lake: Architecture and History of a Pioneer Health Resort	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unforgettable look at historic period	I first read this book 16 years ago.  I have never forgotten it; it is one of my favorite books.  Why?  It blends architecture with medical necessity, family issues and social needs at the turn of the century.  The idea that people could be cured (or not) by the winter weather of Saranac lake, with its extremely low humidity and extreme cold (40 degrees below zero days not uncommon), made tubercular people leave their children and families to go north to this tuberculosis treatment hospital while living in the town of Saranac.  They'd bundle up in a cure cottage's glassed in porch, lying on an Adirondack cot made of wood, a cross between an ultra-sturdy deck chair on an ocean liner, and a hospital bed.  Robert Louis Stevenson lived in his own home in Saranac lake, and Christy Mathewson was treated there also (He died of TB.)  The history of tuberculosis is interesting not just from a medical, but an historical and social point of view.  Anyone who enjoys architectural history will find this coffeetable style book of black and white photographs and informative text interesting.  This Adirondack area is one of rich history, with the cure cottages of Saranac, the large country &quot;cabins&quot; of the rich New York city moguls, the Olympics in Lake Placid, and the artistry of outdoorsman Frederick Remington.  This book is a wonderful addition to your historic architecture collection.  It brings a long-forgotten chapter of medical care and historical architecture to life.	2001-05-30
US	52527148	RO2L3OFD6DPIN	1555835430	783428561	Heather Has Two Mommies: 10th Anniversary Edition (Alyson Wonderland)	Books	4	35	48	N	N	Good book, wish illustrations were in color	This is the ground-breaking book about a little girl who has two mommies, a lesbian couple.  Ten years ago the authors had a terrible time trying to get their book published and finally put up the money themselves.  I suspect perhaps this is why the illustrations are in black and white, because color is more expensive.  Although very sweet and adorable, it would be nice if the illustrations were in color.  But there are plenty of books that are beloved classics and have one color illustrations such as &quot;Millions of Cats or &quot;Make Way for Ducklings.&quot;  That is the only &quot;fault&quot; I find with this book.  The book gives children of both gay and straight parents the security of knowing that their families are all just fine the way they are.  Today only 25 % of families are traditional, with a dad and mom.  As more diverse families have come on the scene more books have been written about this issue so that all children can feel they have a place at the table.  After all, a family is a group of people who love and support one another--two moms, two dads, a mom and dad, grandparents, an aunt or an uncle, guardians, foster families, single parents, etc.  Kids need to know this, so that they can grow up feeling proud of their families and accepted by their friends.  This is in no way a &quot;subversive&quot; book, but one that is eminently useful for children of both straight and gay parents.  If children know the truth, they have less chance of being bullies toward those children of families that &quot;appear different.&quot;  Our children live in a diverse world. They need the facts so they have to tools to flourish in it.  Knowing that there are such things as gay parents will not make children gay, because sexual orientation is fixed at birth.  Gay parents have exactly the same percentage of gay/straight children as straight parents do, about 10 %.  So rid yourself of homophobic fear and do not inject your kids with it.  Read this book to your child,and help them understand the simple truths of life: that gay dads and lesbian moms have kids, that they are trustworthy, respectable, devout and loving parents,and that their kids are loved just as much as other children.  I look forward to the day when all families and kids are accepted NOT on the basis of  their sexual identity but for the content of their character, their courage and unconditional love.  I am a straight mom.	2001-05-30
US	52527148	R1S1K7LCB105XQ	0843176113	885746778	What if Someone I know Is Gay?: Answers to Questions about Gay and Lesbian People (Plugged In)	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	Required reading for ALL kids	Eric Marcus has written this wonderful book for middle and early high school kids about homosexuality.  Written in a question and answer format in larger print, this book tells the TRUTH to kids who might be questioning their sexuality, or might have a gay friend or family member, or are bigoted about gays.  For older kids and adults, read Eric's book, &quot;Is It a Choice?&quot; It covers the same territory but in greater depth.<br />Homosexuality is usually not discussed at a middle school level, although children can sense sexual identity differences at this age between themselves and others.  This often leads to shunning, confusion, prejudice, bullying, harassment and beatings.  Some gay kids even have urine and feces thrown at them or are spit upon.  If you condone or excuse this behavior  you become part of the problem of gay harassment and hateful behavior.<br />The best way to avoid negative, bigoted behavior toward gays is to be proactive:  buy this book for your child, your church,  school, and home library.  Homosexuality is a normal, natural expression of human sexuality.  Let's take the lid off the pressure cooker of bigotry and become lesbigay advocates for all children everywhere.  All straight, gay and questioning kids need this book's truth desperately.   I highly recommend it as an educator and Lutheran church librarian.	2001-04-17
US	52527148	R1EQQ57XXUHKDC	006251623X	594916080	Is It a Choice? - 2nd edition: Answers to 300 of the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gays and Lesbian People	Books	5	45	47	N	Y	Required reading for ALL people	This is a wonderful book written on an older teen to adult level; it's not just for lesbigays but should be required reading for all straight people, too, because we live in an extremely homophobic society.  This book cuts through the bigotry, myths and lies, and answers 300 questions about being lesbigay honestly and simply.  To those who are already familiar with lesbigays, some of the questions might seen terribly basic, but for those who are new to homosexual concerns, this book gives you answers to questions you might have been too prejudiced, afraid or too shy to ask.  If you find that your child, student or friend is lesbigay, this is the first book you should turn to for those basic questions you might have.  It will help you get over that first speed bump and you will have a much clearer idea about what homosexuality really is--a normal expression of a human being's sexuality.  If you think that gays are the castoffs of society, boy, do you have a lot to learn, and it is never too late to do so.  This book also has a terrific list of resources at the end, about where to look for further information and help.<br />Another good book on the same subject is Eric Marcus's book called &quot;What If Someone I Know is Gay?&quot;  This book is similar to &quot;Is It a Choice?&quot;, but is scaled to a 6-10th grade reading level. Older teens would probably prefer &quot;Is It a Choice?&quot;  But for younger kids with questions &quot;What If Someone I Know is Gay?&quot; is fantastic.<br />I urge those of you--teachers, parents, grandparents, relatives, friends, teachers, ministers and counselors--who wish to learn the TRUTH about lesbigays--to buy this book as a basic part of your library.  I am a volunteer church librarian and I will donate these two books to our church library as well as several others.  It is never too late to learn to leave your prejudices behind.  This book is a special life-saver for students who are discovering their sexual identities.  READ THIS BOOK!	2001-04-17
US	52527148	R3U1D7KC0ZLY0D	1882514106	729693622	Famous Men Of The Renaissance & Reformation	Books	4	35	56	N	Y	Where are the women?	This is an excellent research tool for high schoolers in history, religion, humanities, art history or world history classes.  It is a large, workbook-sized soft cover book.  I ordered it for our church library. Illustrations are all in black and white.  It was interesting to read as an adult, too, o because it is a good refresher or review of the history of the era. Although each chapter covers a person, the history of the whole book is kept intact. I would recommend it to public school high school teachers for use as a text.   However, I have a comment.  Where are the WOMEN of the Renaissance and Reformation?  What about Catherine de Medici, Katherine von Bora, Joan of Arc, Hildegard von Bingen, and Artimisia Gentileschi, the great female Renaissance painter (check Vasari's Lives of the Painters.)  I would like to see women included in any revisions, with the book called, &quot;Famous PEOPLE of the Renaissance and Reformation.&quot;  Do some digging and don't follow the typical history that men haver written.  There is &quot;herstory&quot;, too, and it should be researched and brought once again to life.  Just because women may not have been as famous as the men, they did wield considerable power and were just as spiritual and talented.	2001-01-10
US	52527148	R360MLA9D26S52	1883642531	705627540	Give Me My Father's Body: The Life of Minik, the New York Eskimo	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fascinating tale of a man caught between two worlds	This fascinating true account of an Inuit boy caught between two cultures, and seeking dignity and justice, will be &quot;enjoyed&quot; by those interested in different cultures, exploration of polar regions, and people who seek justice for indigenous peoples. I like stories of society at the turn of the century, and having lived in the extremely cold climates of northern New York's North Country for some years, I am interested in how people exist and keep their sanity in climatically-inhospitable areas of the world. The turn of the century's patriarchal view that more &quot;primitive&quot; peoples were uncivilized curiosities and therefore inhuman, are thoroughly investigated and displayed in this book.  <br />I first saw this book advertised in the newspaper's Sunday Parade section about nine months ago and I clipped it out.  The unusual title, Minik's innocent and troubling picture, and short blurb said that this would be a subject worth exploring.  I found it in my local library and first of all, I was surprised to see a foreward by Kevin Spacey, an actor whom I respect for his talent and depth.  I can see why this compelling story could be visualized by him as a great vehicle for a film. (Please select an Inuit actor!)<br />I was engrossed in the story and pitied poor Minik for the terrible treatment he received from the highest, learned echelon of our so-called civilized society.  Minik's group of 6 people were used as curiosities with no thought as to the possibilites of fatal illness, depression or feelings of displacement they might suffer.  Peary was an absolute scoundrel!  I think toward the end of his life, Minik was finding the happiness which had eluded him all his life, God bless him.  The untruthful, unethical and immoral treatment of Minik, his father's and his peoples' remains and tools stolen by the American Museum of Natural History in New York City will make me shudder to cross its threshold ever again. Gives me the shivers!  <br />Read this book for a fascinating story of one man's search for dignity and a home place.  It is in such details as these that a government and society show its true colors.  I am very glad to see that Native Americans now demand and are given a great deal more respect and better treatment about their implements, burial sites and holy places.  Still the US goverment and our modern society has not even scratched the surface.  We have a long way to go toward tolerance and fair treatment. Many Native Americans still suffer in substandard housing with no heat or plumbing, poor nutrition, education, and all the social evils that come when people have no hope for a better tomorrow. Perhaps Minik's story will create dialogue about dignity and justice for all people.  We owe it to Native Americans, in Minik's memory, to continue that dialogue.	2000-11-13
US	52527148	RVMXWABII1WK3	0890511586	643985305	The Lie: Evolution	Books	1	47	81	N	N	Creationism is the big lie	Is your faith so weak that you cannot believe that God made the universe, using the big bang and evolution as His divine process?  Creationism is not a science because it does not depend on the scientific method of hypothesis, experimentation, observation and conclusion to prove its halfbaked claptrap. It does, however, use any part of the evolutionary record to prove its points when it fits its own needs.  Well, how much of the evolutionary record are you going to use to prove religious fundamentalist dogma?  A little?  A Lot?<br />Do not buy this book. Rather, look under Amazon's science category and buy books for your kids by true scientists such as Jane Goodall, the Leakeys, etc. for the truth for your children.  Subscribe to National Geographic for your children.  Or buy the book &quot;Galileo&quot; by Peter Sis (ages 9-12) in order to show your children how religion for centuries has gone too far in repressing the scientific truth about our universe.  Galileo was excommunicated by the Catholic church for his scientific findings.  Hundreds of years later the church admitted its mistake.  A little late for Galileo.  How can we trust fundamentalism which again represses evolutionary truth and calls it a lie as this book does?  Religion cannot declare science to be a lie, just to justify its dogma. It would be funny if it weren't so sad and downright dangerous.  <br />Many Christian Protestant denominations have no problem believing in both Genesis and evolution.  If you have so little faith that you have to believe in evey Bible verse as being absolutely true, then you have a problem.  If the Bible is absolutely true then why do you fundamentalists not own slaves, or stone your mothers in the streets?  Why do you order a hamburger and milkshake when the Bible tells you explicitly to never mix meat and dairy together? In Judaism, the year is not 2000, but 5761.  The Hebrews have been keeping records for nearly 6000 years, and you say the universe is only 6000 years old! Total ignorance. Use the minds God gave you.<br />My children intend go to public school and college where they will never hear a word about creationism simply because it is not science.  Our Christian Protestant faith does not believe in creationism either because it is right-wing fundamentalist dogma, pure and simple.  Creationism is antiChristian because it denies the existence of a complex universe made by God over billions of years.  I stand against creationism being taught in the public schools for this reason. The science teachers in my children's public high school say they would resign if they were required to teach creationism instead of evolution or creationism as a science.  I would pull my child out of any school that taught creationism.  Teach your children the scientific truth about evolution and religious faith will follow as water flows over rocks in a stream.	2000-11-07
US	52527148	R257HQJRRQJZSS	0345421515	440240275	The Real James Herriot: A Memoir of My Father	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A delightful memoir	Dear Jim Wight, I have thoroughly enjoyed this wonderful romp throught the life of Alf Wight.  I have enjoyed many of his books as well as this one, written realistically by you.  Jim, you did a marvelous job examining the life of your father, and presenting it to us. This work is excellent and it sort of caps your fathers works, unifying them.  I found it especially interested to read the sections on how he became an author.  In short, I think you are an excellent writer, too, just as you father was!   <br />My favorite books of your father's are the All Creatures Great and Small series, Dog Stories, and The Christmas Day Kitten.  I got the kitten story for my kids when they were little and we still keep it with our Christmas books which we bring out each year, and read, just like sentimental old friends.   <br />Your father's books and now yours, have given me a great desire to see Yorkshire.  I am disabled I probably will never get there, but the many books of the Wight family have given me a lovely feeling for the beautiful grassy hills and dales. Congrats on a terrific book.  My daughter heard hysterical laughter coming from my room as I read your book, esp. the anecdote about the dustbin men.   <br />Just one tiny mistake--the author's name is O. Henry, not O'Henry.  Lots of folks make that mistake.  Thanks for the memoir.	2000-10-25
US	52527148	R1QKI64UNZ8B9F	0671018868	526996010	Tell Me Why: A Father Answers His Daughter's Questions About God	Books	3	13	70	N	N	Degenerates into Catholic dogma	I bought this book for our Lutheran church library. The first 9 chapters and chapter 12 are excellent and thought-provoking.  However, Chapter 10 on  the role of women in religion (the Catholic faith) and Chapter 11 on  abortion degenerate into Catholic dogma.  The writers should SAY THIS:  the  Catholic church does not allow women to be priests due to tradition,  although other faiths do. Instead, Michael weaves a mysteriously weak  argument: women are great at ministering to others (ala Mother Theresa) but  they could not serve as intermediaries to God because they aren't able to  get through to the &quot;warrior man&quot; because they are too meek and  mild.  Doesn't that make you just go all fuzzy inside?  He said how  &quot;funny&quot; or &quot;odd&quot; it would be to hear a WOMAN, of all  people, deliver the Sermon on the Mount. The argument was idiotic. What  about Mary Magdelene, the 13th disciple?  What about Joan of Arc, the  warrior woman?  What about female pastors of other faiths?  Gee, I wonder  if God listens to them?  What about the fact that limiting the priesthood  to males has resulted in a homosexual priesthood--not that I would mind  that, but it is surely not the result the church intended way back when,  and is a big problem in the eyes of the church.  This is never mentioned.  In chapter 11, the abortion chapter, the authors do a great disservice to  their readers.  They totally avoid discussing contraceptive devices  (naturally)and the fact that condoms can keep you from contracting AIDS!  Catholic couples and women especially are condemned, shamed and made to  feel guilty by the male hierarchical church if they use contraceptives, and  condemned to suffer needless pain, possible death, not to mention the guilt  of unwanted pregnancy and the dangers that come with childbirth or  abortion, if they do not use contraceptives.  Catch 22.  How do they ever  get right with the church?  What kind of church creates such needless  suffering on the part of over half its followers-- women? The author  mentions a euphemism for the rhythm method as the only acceptable birth  control method, never mentioning that it is totally unreliable and does  nothing to protect against STDs or HIV.  Novak mentions how wonderful it is  that Catholic nuns help young unmarried pregnant girls with their  pregnancies.  Who pays for their welfare once they leave these facilities?  The Catholic church?  No, you and me, the taxpayers.  I got the feeling  while reading this book that women are EXPECTED to suffer in this church  and to just take it as a saintly cross to bear, never to object.  I believe  Christ expects us to make responsible decisions and take some  responsibility for our lives.  The idea that we should bow to some male  hierarchy in a faith like Catholicism or Christian fundamentalism is silly.  God did not put us on earth to suffer if we could do something to avoid it  in the first place, for goodness' sake.  I got so mad at these chapters  that I wrote rebuttals in the margins.  EVERYONE should use a CONDOM when  they have sex EVERYTIME whether they are married or unmarried.  You ask for  death if you don't. The idea that college students receive condoms for free  on campuses was so offensive to the authors because it &quot;cheapens  sex.&quot;  No, actually, sex without love cheapens sex. Would they rather  these students suffer and die from STDs and AIDS when they could easily  avoid it?  Get real! So read this book with a grain of salt and remember it  is written from a very dogmatical point of view.he part of over half its followers-- women? The author  mentions a euphemism for the rhythm method as the only acceptable birth  control method, never mentioning that it is totally unreliable and does  nothing to protect against STDs or HIV.  Novak mentions how wonderful it is  that Catholic nuns help young unmarried pregnant girls with their  pregnancies.  Who pays for their welfare once they leave these facilities?   The Catholic church?  No, you and me, the taxpayers.  I got the feeling  while reading this book that women are EXPECTED to suffer in this church  and to just take it as a saintly cross to bear, never to object.  I believe  Christ expects us to make responsible decisions and take some  responsibility for our lives.  The idea that we should bow to some male  hierarchy in a faith like Catholicism or Christian fundamentalism is silly.  God did not put us on earth to suffer if we could do something to avoid it  in the first place, for goodness' sake.  I got so mad at these chapters  that I wrote rebuttals in the margins.  EVERYONE should use a CONDOM when  they have sex EVERYTIME whether they are married or unmarried.  You ask for  death if you don't. The idea that college students receive condoms for free  on campuses was so offensive to the authors because it &quot;cheapens  sex.&quot;  No, actually, sex without love cheapens sex. Would they rather  these students suffer and die from STDs and AIDS when they could easily  avoid it?  Get real! So read this book with a grain of salt and remember it  is written from a very dogmatical point of view.	2000-08-17
US	52527148	R3PYD1M09YI7D2	0064441326	432362288	The Golly Sisters Go West (I Can Read Level 3)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Hilarious stories for kids who love to laugh	My kids are in high school and they still remember the antics of the Golly sisters, siblings with funny adventures and fancy dreams!  Along with Amelia Bedelia books, the Golly sisters encouraged my kids to begin reading  at a very early age just to relive the antics on their own without Mommy's  help.  Highly recommend the Golly sisters with a whoop and a holler!	1999-10-20
US	52527148	R2VJOFDFFFOZDS	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A true autobiography	This book is NOT a novel as Amazon implies.  This is a true account of the life of Elie Weisel in the concentration camps.  Weisel waited ten years to write it because he thought nobody would believe his account.  See the  excellent article on Weisel which appears in Biography magazine in the  September 1999 issue.  Weisel claims he should not be given the honored  title of a  &quot;tzaddik,&quot; or righteous person.  But I think living  through hell on earth gives you the right to be honored with the title, not  because he lived through it, but because he made something positive out of  his experience.  Fighting against hate makes him a &quot;tzaddik.&quot;  Thank you Dr. Weisel.  I plan to include &quot;Night&quot; in our Lutheran  Church Library.	1999-08-27
US	52527148	R39SYIJYK0LBEE	078943976X	292430275	Child's Book of Prayers, A	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Reflects life in today's world	This adorable prayer book by one of my favorite publishers of Eyewitness Kids books and adult travel guides (Dorling Kindersley) is a lovely book of prayers that reflects children's lives in today's world.  Prayers like  &quot;I am Learning to Read,&quot;  &quot;We are Moving Today&quot; and  &quot;Help Grandpa Feel Better&quot; do a good job of helping children  relate prayer to daily living.  Large, colorful photos of kids being, well,  kids, and photos of family members, natural subjects such as birds and  fish, and children's toys and bedrooms all come to life on the clean white  pages DK is famous for.  I just ordered this book for our church  library--it impressed me that much.  Oh, yes, there are also prayers for  Easter and Christmas.  This is obviously a Christian Book and would not be  appropriate for children of other faiths, unless they choose to ignore the  Christian religious seasonal prayers.  The children depicted in the photos  are of all races.	1999-06-28
US	52527148	R16OATSPAN7B3M	0671011332	7794510	Almost Heaven	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Favorite romance novel except for GWTW	I've read alot of romance novels, maybe 500-600 or so.  This one is my all-time favorite romance and I enjoy re-reading it now and then.  McNaught has a tongue-in-cheek method of writing which enables you to enjoy the  humor inherent in the story--in this case the slimy Belhaven, the  supposedly dull-witted hunter and fisherman Marchman, who turns out not to  be so stupid after all; he has a heart.  Ian Thornton is the best romantic  character I've come upon yet.   It is difficult to write in this genre,  because the &quot;rules&quot; are so unvarying.  For example, the main male  character &quot;has&quot; to be dark-haired, with glittering green or  silver eyes, handsome, smoke cheroots, hard on the outside, desperately in  need of assurrance and sustenance inside, with a background of meaningless  sexual actitivy. At least Judith manages to add some character  development--Ian can read at the speed of light, and add figures like  lightning.  Obviously gifted, much to his chagrin. He had a sad  childhood.   The trial at the end is so well-done, and the suffering of the lovers is  written in such a manner that you feel their pain acutely.  Judith knows  how to create sexual tension between the characters, and writes great love  scenes.  She never depends upon rape or violence to advance the plot. Many  older romance novels depend on rape scenes and I think that is hateful; the  worst thing you can do as an author is to use abuse of any kind to advance  a plot.  Use, instead, humor, interplay between the characters, and  character development to let us truly know the characters. I like all  Judith's novels, actually, but this is the best.  She's the author I always  come back to.	1999-04-30
US	52527148	R2J5D2PSIQACG3	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Violent scenes are not for squeamish	Yes, this was an excellent novel as you 311 reviewers have said.  Hey, Jamie-lovers: get a grip--it's a story, not real life.  Would that it were, minus the torture and violence!   Gabaldon must have a real bunch of people  researching for her, or else she has an impressive history doctorate from  somewhere and no life other than writing these books.  Great characters,  etc.  MY ONE RESERVATION:  did she HAVE to make the violence and torture  segments so incredibly violent? For readers with good imaginations, they  were hard to take, enough to color the whole book as less than perfect.   She has this story and the continuations, adding up to, what, 2500 plus  pages?  Even Margaret Mitchell did it well in a little over 1000.  Does  this story just pour out of Gabaldon or what?  I have visions of this poor  woman slaving maniacally over a word processor trying to type fast enough  for the words that are coming out of her brain in such a torrent.  Good  heavens!  I didn't read the remaining books because they are just such an  expense in time.  Usually, I find romances too short, but in this case  they're a bit long and too violent.  The one thing I hate about Michener is  he starts back in the Pleistocene to tell a story about the 1850's.  This  isn't quite that bad, but I did stagger a bit in bleary-eyed relief as I  placed it back on my bookshelf after finishing it.  I just thought it was  kind of funny when I read it that it was so long, and kind of a pain  because of that.  I'd still recommend them.  Just be prepared--it will take  awhile.  My favorite romance writer is Judith McNaught, whose book,  &quot;Almost Heaven&quot; has the best male character I've ever come  across: Ian Thornton.  And if I could find a &quot;book world&quot; to live  in, it would be in the world of Rosamunde Pilcher's novels.  They are like  old friends: the slightly shabby and very human estate people, the old  folks, the dogs, and every home always has a room for company, the reader!	1999-04-30
US	52527148	R17ZUPIN8W9534	0312961243	1337129	Under Gemini	Books	5	9	9	N	N	I'd live in Rosamunde Pilcher's book world if I could.....	Rosamunde Pilcher is one of my favorite authors, along with Margaret Mitchell and Harper Lee.  Pilcher's world is that of the Scottish coast, with its slightly shabby and beloved stone homesteads, its unique and  genuine characters, its Aga stoves, leashes hanging in the mud room, tennis  racquets in the hall, and corner grocery stores whose owners keep track of  the inhabitants of the village.  And of course, sheep, grouse and liberal  amounts of Scotch or restoring cups of tea.  I would live in this world of  Pilcher's if I could.  She writes in visual pictures that help you place  yourself there.  Her plots are well-constructed and thought-out.  In this  novel, a twin stands in for her recently met twin sister who she finds out  is a not very nice &quot;gel&quot; as they say.  The characters of the  bed-ridden grandmother matriarch, Tuppy, the lost, out-of-her-element Flora  and the lonely, handsome Dr. Hugh Kyle are people you will want to spend  time with.  They are supported by a cast of characters, each total human  beings with hopes, wishes and hang-ups.  Just a lovely book.  Thanks,  Rosamunde for sharing your world with me through books! Your books always  make me feel that there would be a room waiting for me were I to visit that  world.	1999-04-30
US	52527148	R140NLS19HBXJ6	0312961235	696092338	Wild Mountain Thyme	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Atmosphere and characterizations equal a good read	This novel is another in a terrific line of Rosamunde Pilcher books. Pilcher is one of my favorite authors because her unique characterizations and modern day Scottish settings are so true to life.  In this book, Oliver  Dobbs, a snide young egotistical playwright,  kidnaps his little toddler  son for his own selfish reasons.  Then Oliver enlists his old girlfriend,  Victoria Bradshaw to help him in his shenanigans, which involve a great  amount of Scotch,  temper tantrums by Oliver, increasing disgust by  Victoria,  and the most impressive conflagration since the novel  &quot;Rebecca.&quot;   Pilcher has a way of writing that is comfortable and  deft.  Reading her novels allows you to enter a unique world, a place I  find most satisfying.  Thank you Rose of the world.	1999-04-30
US	52527148	RNM1GQCOHHRCS	0553272586	488633293	Farewell to Manzanar: A True Story of Japanese American Experience During and  After the World War II Internment	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Plaintive memoir about being a Japanese American	I bought this memoir for our church library because it is an excellent personal story about living in a Japanese-American internment camp during World War Two.  It is a book about paradoxes: the differences between  American living and Japanese traditions; the pride of being Japanese  American and the shame of being suspected as traitors; and the dichotomy  between an America fighting for freeedom while legislating forced  incarceration of American citizens.  This book will appeal to students who  have studied World War Two and the Holocaust because it turns the spotlight  on the hypocrisy of the American government. Although people of the time  might say, &quot;things were different then,&quot; I would say &quot;yes,  they were&quot; and point to this racist example of something America  should never do to its people again.  This book would also appeal to  adults.  Most of the baby boomers who I have asked to read this book have  all liked it for its truth and plaintive, ethereal ending. An excellent  memoir.  Congratulations Jean, on a beautiful book.	1999-03-09
US	52527148	R2B99UBA4YRM1F	039490575X	950463205	The Story of Babar	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Charming elephant story holds preschoolers in thrall	My children adored this book from a very early age due to the charm of the text and the pictures.  The bon-bons, the kind old lady, the suit of clothes, all create a Parisian fantasy for the big, shy Babar.  My kids are  now high-schoolers and take French.  I like to think it was due to those  first images of the Tour Eiffel in this book!  Every kid should have this  delightful story.  My high schoolers still enjoy a trip down memory lane  once in awhile with Babar.	1999-02-17
US	52527148	R39WPF3EPFYV9O	0807063452	117531705	Walls: Resisting the Third Reich- One Woman's Story	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Woman's resistance in face of Naziism is powerful	I am a Lutheran church librarian who was given this book as a donation to our library from a parishioner's teenage daughter who was assigned to read it in school.  This is an excellent book about resisting Naziism by a  German woman who risked her life to help others. The interesting thing  about this woman's story is that she treaded such a fine line.  She was not  a member of the Nazi party.  She expected to be found out and killed at any  moment.  Time and again she underwent Gestapo questioning for no reason  other than to scare her.  Even so, her degree in Scandinavian languages  gave her a certain amount of power and prestige within the Nazi system that  allowed her to give food, medicine and religious support to Scandinavian  political prisoners imprisoned all over Germany.  Her descriptions of the  bombings of Hamburg and Dresden are especially interesting.  So often we  focus on the horrible things done to the Jews and gypsies in the Holocaust,  as we well should.  But we must also rmember that the German people were  also victims of this terrible regime.  Some helped the regime and others  fought it.  I very much enjoyed this book and recommend it.  I read it in a  day.  Not difficult, but hard to put down.	1999-02-16
US	52527148	R21RBOWXR7PN38	0590677209	615238767	Miriam's Cup: A Passover Story (Passover Titles)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Stresses women's role in Passover and Exodus	I am a Lutheran church librarian.  This excellent book about Passover stresses the female role in the story.  So often Bible stories stress only men's roles.  I buy those, but also go out of my way to find those that  stress roles of women to inspire our daughters and granddaughters. Women  are religious too, and have great roles to play. This story is told from  Miriam's point of view.  A modern day little girl named Miriam is told the  Passover story by her Mom.  We thus go back in time, seeing the Passover  story from the ancient Miriam's point of view:  the fact that she  prophesied her brother Moses' birth and that he would be the Israelite  leader; the role of Moses' mother, pharoah's wife, and even the two  midwives who birthed Moses but refused to kill him as ordered by the  pharaoh, the first act of civil disobedience reported in the Bible.  As a  Lutheran, I enjoy the Midrashic legendary spin in stories such as this.  It  adds life to worn and dusty stories. Several other important things about  this book are: a modern day song about Miriam on the back cover for use at  home or in Sunday School, a historical note at the end of the story, a  bibliography for those who want to know more, and the fantastic  illustrations in blue-violet and burnt orange done in watercolor, by Bob  Dacey, chair of the Visual Arts Dept. at Syracuse University.  This is an  excellent book both for Jewish and Christian children. For those of you who  may also be interested in other Biblical storybooks about girls and women,  I can suggest A Prayer for the Earth: The story of Naamah, Noah's Wife by  Sandy Sasso.  In this book Naamah is seen as the preserver of all the  plants on the earth, at God's direction.  Noah handles the fauna, Naamah  handles the flora.  A lovely story.  Another is Mary's First Christmas by  Walter Wangerin, Jr., in which Mary retells the story of Jesus' birth to  the young Jesus. Others are Young Mary of Nazareth by Marianne Mayer, Queen  Esther Saves Her People by Ruth Golden Gelman,  Queen of Sheba (don't know  author) and Ruth Sanderson's Tapestries: Stories of Women in the Bible,  with illustrations resembling Victorian petit-point.  I would like to find  an illustrated storybook on Martin Luther, Ruth and Naomi, Martha and Mary  and the like done as well as Miriam's Cup.	1999-02-09
US	52527148	R3CJ29LQ2ZQ5BE	0806625341	278095680	Before and After Christmas: Activities for Advent and Ephiphany	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	O'Neal's craft books are excellent and based on scripture	I am a former art teacher with an M. Ed. in Art. I also am a church librarian.  In answer to my Sunday School teachers' need for craft resource ideas, I selected Trafton's books &quot;Before and After Christmas&quot;  and &quot;Before and After Easter&quot; for them to use as resource books.   These satisfy a real need for Sunday School crafts based on scripture.   Each craft lesson is laid out with a Bible verse, followed by a tradition  or a legend which illustrates the verse.  Then follow the materials list  and directions to complete the project.  The books are well-designed, the  directions easy to follow and nicely illustrated. I'd suggest you use them  if you need additional ideas for Sunday School.	1999-01-22
US	52527148	R2ZE1B7J55U964	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Fundamentalism by any name mistreats women	I am a Lutheran church librarian; I recently bought this book for our library and am very glad I did.  American women (and men) need to have a better world view of all religions and cultural customs because we are not  islands in this world. This book, with vignettes by many Arab women from  desert nomad wives to Queen Noor of Jordan, gives an excellent overview of  Muslim women's lives summed up best in the misused Biblical verse,  &quot;Women, submit to your husbands.&quot;  Talk about men shifting the  blame to women for their own irresponsibility!  This book plaintively  showed me how Arabian women live very lonely and often appalling lives  based on forced submission to men, physical, mental and spiritual abuse,  including female clitoridectomy, stoning, no educational opportunities,  limited communication with others and forced limitation on travel. What a  waste of 50% of the human potential of these countries.  But, you know, I  can't think of any fundamentalist group of any religion where women do not  suffer the blame: loss of all rights to reproductive freedom, educational  and career opportunities. This book is an illustration of what can happen  when fundamentalists of any stripe create doubt, fear, exclusion and  intolerance amongst the public. Use the minds that God gave you: think,  read and ponder what we can do as a society for the good of the world and  ALL its people.  Stop the exclusion. Stop the blame and the hate.  Women  are not the cause of the world's problems, but we surely do have some wise  solutions!  Thanks, Geraldine Brooks, for the wonderful book!  It has  helped me grow!	1999-01-22
US	52527148	R2S3PCDF58S3Y4	0789420708	419595190	A Christmas Carol (DK Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Eyewitness Classics does it again	Our church youth just finished their play of &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot; and here we have a book of all the details.  Wow, looking it over in a bookstore locally, I don't even have to read it in order to know this is a  fantastic book with terrifically detailed iiustrations, just the kind of  thing our late elementary and young middle schoolers want.  I am definitely  going to order this for our church library.	1998-12-29
US	52527148	R3BDE9DDDNKNWL	0395891698	720129606	The War Against Parents: What We Can Do for America's Beleaguered Moms and Dads	Books	5	8	15	N	N	No wonder 1950s families fared better than today's families	I am a mother and a church librarian and bought this book from that point  of view.  I have seen Cornel West on C-SPAN on a number of occasions and  always found him to be wise and thought-provoking.  I was very pleased with  this book.  It was especially astonishing on two points.  The first is the  authors' exposition of family life in the 1950's which was government  supported with larger tax credits for children and educational programs  such as the GI Bill.  Today families have no such overwhelming governmental  support.  Most foreign countries have full governmental support for child  care.  Why not America?  Do we pride ourselves on independence so much,  when our families are in dire peril?  The government is so blind.  The  second point that really struck me was the survey at the back of the book.   The religious right and its cabal in Congress tell us that the things of  most concern to families today are abortion, homosexuality and prayer in  schools.  The authors' survey found very different worries at the heart of  actual  families in this country--the need for government sponsored child  care, flex time and job-sharing, nurseries on site at job locations, tax  credits, etc. Parents are talking basic practicality, not ideas espoused by  a fundamentalist &quot;Christian&quot; front. (BTW, Christianity is never  exclusive.)  I also found valuable the explanation of the Promise Keepers  and the Nation of Islam,  especially in terms of my own religious beliefs.  Just yesterday there was a column in the paper on the lack of corporate  on-site breast-feeding areas for new mothers and babies, followed in  today's paper by an article on Muslim fundamentalist mistreatment and  murder of women and mothers in Afghanistan.  Parents and families the WORLD  OVER are in grave peril. I wish the authors would have in place some grass  roots organization so parents could sign up to become activists in getting  legislation passed.  Heaven forbid that we should ask seniorsor singles to  pay for families.  Howver, seniors are the first to gripe when there is  crime, vandalism, family failure through divorce, teen moms.  These things  are a direct result of our nonsupport of our nation's families.  The  National PTA just doesn't seem to be making much headway, although schools,  already pushed to the limit, are taking a part--locally two schools have  after school programs to avoid the problem of latch-key kids, and child  care available at high school so that young teen moms can graduate.  At the  same time, however, teachers are no longer allowed to ask for modest lab  fees for classes.  As a former art teacher, I can tell you that it is hard  to give schoolchildren quality art experiences when you have only donations  of wall paper books and carpet scraps!  The result is that parents who can,  dig in DEEP to give donations to teachers whose curricula are hard up.   Already this year my husband and I have given over $1000 out of pocket to  support our schools and it's only Ocotober.  This book will definitely show  you how the war on parents and families is being fought.  It is a call to  activism.  It will make you do some real thinking about what is wrong with  the cultural and political system in this country, where families are so  discounted.  Way to go, Sylvia and Cornel.  God bless you, sister and  brother!	1998-10-06
US	52527148	R2ZJ3RYSUOI26	068483538X	424510236	Becoming a Grandmother: A Life Transition	Books	2	21	27	N	N	Left me feeling unsure about grandma-hood	I am some years away from becoming a grandmother.  I bought and read this  book for my  church library.  I was disappointed in it.  Instead of good  advice on how to be a grandma, especially when living at a distance from  grandkids, this book seemed to be written for those who dreaded becoming a  grandma.  GEEZ.  Let's buck up ladies and realize that grandmotherhood is a  BLESSING rather than some kind of condemnation of age!   We EARN the right  to be elders, to be wise! When will American women welcome each section of  their lives as they pass through it?  You only go this way but once and  there are plenty of dead women who would have given everything to live long  enough to even see grandchildren.  This book left little to look forward  to.  In her effort to try to convince &quot;reluctant&quot; grandmothers  that they should look forward to this experience she seemed to be saying  that if you WERE looking forward to it, something is wrong with you.  I had  great relationships with both my grandmothers.  They enriched my life  tremendously and were another voice of reason and ears to listen as I was  growing up.  Kitzinger's book left me with a bad taste in my mouth. Call me  disappointed.	1998-09-22
US	52527148	REFXQMZTHP4JW	0028613473	69467868	Bible Places Then & Now (Then & Now Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Armchair tour of archeological Bible sites	I bought this book for our church library and found it excellent! It is  well-laid out in chapters on each archeological site of religious  significance to the life of Christ,  with an acetate &quot;Then and  Now&quot;  view of each site. My students really liked these acetate  overlays and put them back and forth over the photos of modern day ruins.  Each chapter tells of the Biblical significance and also the archeological  significance of each place.  Between the chapters lie double-page spreads  of  Bible stories and how they relate to the sites.  This is an excellent  book for Christians, amateur travelers, archeologists, architects, even for  preteens and teens who play with Legos and can't stop drawing kid-style  elevations of buildings.	1998-09-21
US	52527148	R23PIFX1IKZSSG	0345348036	544398776	The Princess Bride: S Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Positively timeless	This book is perfect (or at least as perfect as anything can be in a  non-perfect world).  My dad used to read it to me when I was a toddler, and  then again every couple of years after that.  The endless  &quot;satirical&quot; digressions are great, and I have yet to find a  funnier phrase in the English language than &quot;morning yogurt  break.&quot;	1998-08-23
