US	52539649	R6FXX86IFELUE	0785109234	93441252	Punisher War Zone Volume 1 TPB	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Punisher at His Grim-&-Grittiest	Until Ennis & Dillon came `round with that amusingly-ultraviolent 12-issue maxi-series a couple years back, I considered this story arc to be one of the best, if not THE best Punisher™ adventures ever put to the bristol board. Of course, the fact that Chuck Dixon, one of comics' best action-adventure writers of comics' grim-&-gritty era, penned the script is a definite draw. And artist John Romita, Jr's renderings of our beloved anti-hero is one of the most recognizable depictions of the Punisher outside those of John Buscema and the underrated Mike Zeck.<br />In this particular adventure, the Big P (with the help of a low-level hood) manages to infiltrate a crime family with the aim of destroying it from within. Naturally, he manages to do so in the end... but not without braving more than a few difficulties. Like getting his cover blown and escaping certain death by a matter of seconds, for example. And the fact that his backup man walked out on him in a huff in the first chapter doesn't help matters, either. Then there's the romantic interlude with the big boss' daughter that would return to bite our beloved vigilante in... subsequent story lines. All in all, you'll get yourself a pretty good helping of killin' of those who need killin', destruction, killin', rage, killin', and all that other good clean family fun in this collection. Did I fail to mention there's a lotta killin'? I don't wanna leave that part out...<br />`Late	2002-11-12
US	52539649	R1QMIBQ4ABQIP6	1929998198	89710371	The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius 4: Gorilla Warfare	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another Solid Chapter In The Barry Ween Saga	Fair warning: Although Amazon lists this book as being suitable for ages 9 through 12, its subject matter is intended for mature audiences. Now, on with the show...<br />After reading and laughing like a mental patient at all of the other Barry Ween™ offerings that writer/artist Judd Winick & Oni™ Press has thrown out to the public, I was pretty stoked to get my hands on the latest TPB of the boy genius' further adventures. This time `round, Winick does things a bit differently with this titular anti-hero. The art is still relatively crude and reminiscent of comic-strip cartoon illustrations, but the dialogue is just as mean-spirited & profane as ever! This time `round the reader is treated a single story arc, rather than three stand-alone issues. From Barry's kindergarten memories of his first hook-up with his best bud Jeremy to a somewhat-accidental trip through space and time to a Conan™esque realm to rescue an `old' friend and back again, there's plenty of laughs to go `round, although not quite as many as in the previous `Monkey Tales' tome. <br />I found the first act to be the funniest as Barry flashes back to his toddler days and introduces his new-found playmate Jeremy to the joys of mags, virtual-reality circuses, cursing Tickle-Me-Elmo™ dolls, and turning the babysitter into a giant mutant ape. Then the story segues back to the present, where things get a bit more serious and dire-well, more so than the usual Barry Ween™ story-arc, anyway. Although the funny moments thin out significantly after the kindergarten adventure, there're several moments filled with enough good, clean (ahem) fun to keep you from taking things too seriously. Throw in a surprisingly touching epilogue, and-- well, you're just gonna hafta experience it for yourself...<br />Although I don't consider `Gorilla Warfare' to be the best entry in the Barry Ween™ series, it's still a pretty good read if you're lookin' for a little dollop o' obscenity-laden humor to help you get your yuks!<br />	2002-10-02
US	52539649	R14BATZ184Q3SP	0440445426	779272043	Fat Men From Space	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very silly outer space invasion	I've been a reader of Daniel Pinkwater's books since grade school, and even enjoy reading them today. Along with `The Magic Moscow', this particular tale is one of the most memorable for me. Like just about all of the author's kiddie tomes, `Fat Men From Space' has no shortage of strange & bizarre yet lighthearted and gently humorous characters & situations. <br />What makes this particular story interesting is that there's no actual hero or heroes who save the day in the end. The main character, a boy whose new tooth filling picks up the aliens' radio transmissions, is merely a helpless witness to all of the unfortunate (yet strangely silly) goings-on. Fortunately, outside events play a part in the rotund ETs prematurely concluding their invasion, and the story ends on an upbeat & slightly sappy note.<br />Unfortunately, some folks might nowadays see this book's titular antagonists as being somewhat un-PC. You know, that whole `FAT Men...\\" thing and such. Well, all I can say about it is this: if you've ever seen a picture of the author, you might be a little less squeamish about his use of the word \\"fat\\", `cause he's a fairly hefty guy himself. The way I see it: if he can deal with it, so can the reader.<br />One more thing: `Fat Men From Space' is followed up by `Slaves of Spiegel', which I also recommend you take a look at. It too has plenty of the Pinkwater trademarks of silly situations and lighthearted & whimsical humor.<br />`Late	2002-04-01
US	52539649	R2UWIJ53POPCQA	0898654173	864216235	Robotech Art 2: New Illustrations & Original Art from The Robotech Universe	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A decent gap-filler, if nothing else...	Although it does contain a pretty wide array of illustrations, I was somewhat disappointed by Robotech Art 2. It's only about half as thick as its other two literary brethren. It does have plenty of new, original art in it, mostly done by North American-based renderers. A lot of it is pretty good, but there's a few illustrations here & there that aren't quite up to snuff quality-wise in my opinion. The most notable contributing artist is Phil Foglio, known in the underground comics scene for his work on `Buck Godot' and `XXXenophiles'.<br />There are a few parts that help bring this volume up a bit, however, including some previously-unreleased character concept sketches and the text history of Robotech, including its origins and how it was re-made into the saga for the North American TV audience. But other than these little upsides, Art 2 isn't all that big a deal. Unless you're a completist, just stick with the other two Robotech Art  Books, and don't worry too much about this outing.<br />`Late	2002-03-04
US	52539649	R1UGNLX80EOVLV	156971648X	971535626	A New Hope (Star Wars: Infinities)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Parallel Star Wars	I used to be a regular reader of Dark Horse's Star Wars comic books, but my interest in them has dropped off quite dramatically over the past couple of years. It's mainly due to there being far too many of them for any mere mortal to be able to follow without losing his mind! Thank God I never got into collecting `X-Men' comics...<br />Anyway, thanks to this Star Wars funnybook glut, nowadays I only read the ones that really stand out and/or grab my attention. This particular entry, `Infinities', an alternate-timeline `Star Wars' story, looked promising. Although alternate-reality plots aren't particularly new to the sci-fi genre (especially `Star Trek') or comic books, this was the first time to my recollection that the Star Wars universe has attempted this oft-tried gimmick. <br />The story, starting with Luke failing to destroy the Death Star, is fairly easy to follow, and features several interesting new takes on the many famous moments from the classic film trilogy, as well as a few brief bits from Episode I. I wasn't too hip to the pacing of the story, however; it seems to end too abruptly. This series would've worked a bit better had they spread it over six issues, rather than four. The renderings are of standard quality- very good, but nothing particularly spectacular. The likenesses of most of the characters look somewhat like their live-action counterparts, but not uncannily so. And, like just about every other four-color creation that's put out by a major publisher nowadays, the color separation's computer-enhanced. Still, as a fairly fun bit of light reading, `Infinities' does a competent job. All in all, it's not a half-bad waste of time for the ardent Jedi wannabe.<br />Fair bit o' warning, though: if you do read this and like it, be careful if & when you introduce this to your fellow geekin' Star Wars fanboys. This baby's started more arguments among my `Warsie buds over what `really' would've happened in an alternate Star Wars timeline than our debates about what methods we'd use to administer a slow, painful death to Jar Jar Binks! Then there's my buddies' outrage over the fact that Boba Fett is nowhere to be seen in this illustrated tome, but that's another story...<br />`Late!	2002-02-22
US	52539649	R1NLT0AVF5689Y	0933126247	448662555	USS Enterprise (CV-6): The Most Decorated Ship of World War II - A Pictorial History	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The REAL Enterprise!	Being both a watcher of war documentaries and a Trekkie, I'm always on the lookout for any kind of information regarding the histories of actual vessels dubbed 'Enterprise'. This particular trade paperback, featuring over a hundred photos of the Pacific War's standout vessel, is one of the few books about one of the real Enterprise vessels I've encountered. True, this book's text lacks the sheer volume and sentimentality of Edward Stafford's 'The Big E'. But, even though 'USS Enterprise CV-6' author Steve Ewing's text is relatively brief, he does manage to give a surprisingly in-depth and occasionally heartfelt look at the ship's history, as told by both himself from his own research and the men who served aboard her. Also described in both words and pictures is the Enterprise legacy, which lives on in the veterans who were part of her crew and in the many memorials made up of both fond recollections and the Enterprise's myriad surviving components.<br />My only real complaint is that, despite the fact this book was last reprinted in 1998, it hasn't been updated since 1987. Other than the lack of a recent revision, however, this pictorial history is one of the best sources of information about the US Navy's most-decorated warship, and is available at a very reasonable price. Whether you're a Pacific War fans, a Naval aficionado, or a Trekkie who is both curious and appreciative of the real-life history of the greatest 'forebear' to sci-fi's most famous starship, this trade paperback is an essential addition to your bookshelf!	2002-02-18
US	52539649	R1BFJ9L6KCB3QG	002774650X	379937170	Slaves of Spiegel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Blimpish space pirates & interstellar cooking competitions	Ever since my grade-school days, I've been a follower of Daniel Pinkwater's 'Magic Moscow' books. `Slaves of Spiegel', the third and (so far) last book in the saga of Hoboken's most unusual fast-food joint,  contains more than its fair share of that trademark droll weirdness and strange culinary combinations that I've come to expect from the 'Magic Moscow' series as well as most of Pinkwater's other books geared towards grade-school children and adults who enjoy a nice, whimsical light read. Fair warning, though: some may find the book's somewhat un-PC portrayal of fat people less than savory. Personally, I think it really adds some good fun to the story. <br />Before you decide to dive into this particular adventure, however, I recommend you bone up on some of the backstory behind this book first, including `The Magic Moscow', `Attila the Pun', and `Fat men From Space'. Happy reading!<br />`Late	2002-02-16
US	52539649	R32LG1OY2GCVB3	059007685X	446342524	Attila the Pun: A Magic Moscow story	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great follow-up of Pinkwater's classic 'The Magic Moscow'!	Having been a fan of the original `Magic Moscow' tome as a kid, I eventually started picking up a few of Daniel Pinkwater's other efforts as well. One of my faves was the follow-up Magic Moscow story, `Attila the Pun'. I loved the playful use of words, the weird culinary combinations, and the wonderful sense of fun that this new story shared with its predecessor. Throw in a goofy supernatural element- a wisecracking, really-bad-joke-reciting Hun ghost summoned from the great beyond- and you've got... well, something pretty weird and wonderful.<br />Even though this particular book is twenty years old, I still believe it'll make for good reading for today's elementary school-age child. Fair warning, though: this book has a few things that'd be considered un-PC nowadays, including smoking (the `Hungarian Boy Scout Lunch' chapter). It also features a bit of magical conjurings & sorcery, which has gotten the more contemporary `Harry Potter' books emboiled in controversy with some folks. But, aside from these things, I think the book will be quite an enjoyable read for the kiddies-and for adults who like a nice, light, whimsical adventure every now and then.<br />`Late!	2002-02-15
US	52539649	R3PKADZVUXMIXI	0916291456	857462822	Everyone Poops (My Body Science)	Books	4	5	14	N	N	Ah, stinky-- whoops, I mean, sweet revenge...	After receiving the infamous Japanese import `The Gas We Pass' as a Christmas gag gift from some family friends last year, I decided to look for a little something to strike back at `em with for next year. Fortunately, I found what I was looking for: `Everybody Poops', which, if you think about it, makes for a fitting companion piece to the flatulence tome I received for yuletide. <br />Like 'The Gas We Pass', `Everybody Poops' is part of a series of simple and amusingly straightforward children's books from Japan that cover those oh-so-unpleasant body functions. This one, obviously, goes over fecal matters, which is a natural cycle for all members of the animal kingdom. Some really fun (although somewhat crude (in more ways than one!)) watercolor illustrations of various animal species (including humans) performing the titular function are included.<br />Needless to say, I can hardly wait `til next Christmas-- it'll be the ultimate payback!<br />`Late!	2002-02-09
US	52539649	RBXDVB4PGVSR6	0590075837	3433573	The Magic Moscow	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fave childhood read	I recall picking this up at the elementary school library back in the day. It was a nice, brief, cutesy little tome that I became quite attached to. It involves the owner of an ice cream parlor in Hoboken, N.J., and the somewhat sickly-looking Alaskan malamute he buys from a local kennel. Included in the mix is a local dog show that goes horribly wrong, and our protagonist meeting his idol! Plenty of silly situations and amusingly strange moments abound in this neat little tale. <br />I gave `The Magic Moscow' a read at least a couple times a year up until the end of fourth-grade, when I started considering it a bit too simple for my maturing reading tastes. Due to the cut-off point I personally experienced, I recommend this for children in the second-through-fourth-grade range. Although listed at 57 pages, only about 40 pages of it is text, the rest simple cartoonish illustrations. If your child has pretty good reading comp, he/she will likely go through this within an hour. More than likely, a very entertaining hour at that!<br />`Late	2002-02-05
US	52539649	RIR5P5NNGXVGU	192999818X	573477603	The Adventures of Barry Ween Boy Genius 3	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Barry (and Judd Winick) does it again	Oh man... just when I thought the Barry Ween saga couldn't get any funnier, writer/artist Judd Winick somehow manages the impossible and gets me rollin' on the floor with even bigger fits of laughter than ever before. And I haven't even gotten beyond page four yet! Who knew a hyperactive ten-year-old's intricate &amp; disturbingly gleeful descriptions of a rhino's restroom habits and monkey mating methods could be such an aneurysm-blowing yuk-fest?<br />Barry's third TPB outing features our titular ten-year-old genius and his slightly-thick sidekick Jeremy getting into all sorts of simian shenanigans. From helping a giant extradimensional gorilla get back home, to saving the `rents from a famished sasquatch, to racing against the clock to capture an ebola-infected lab monkey that crashes the school dance, Bar' and Jer' produce plenty of laughs with their profane banter and the bizarre predicaments they get into. Also included to help lighten the tone are scads of movie references, sex-ed jokes, the funniest take on the `tastes like chicken' cliché I've ever experienced, and other things you shouldn't laugh at, but do anyway! <br />Fair warning, though- be sure read this in the privacy of your own home. There's nothing worse than getting your hysterical laugh-on at the local comic-book shop and having the other geeks stare at you like you're some kinda weirdo (Now THERE'S a case of the pot callin' the kettle black if I ever saw one)! Trust me on this, I'm speaking from experience! (=)<br />`Late	2002-01-15
US	52539649	R33OABR171CS1W	1560973560	744214640	Super Taboo Volume 2 (MangErotica) (v. 2)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	This is so very wrong...	Y'know, before I checked this manga series out, I never would've considered incest to be even remotely amusing. But for some reason, this smutty series depicting a young man's sick little urges and the mother &amp; sister who fulfill them leaves me yukkin' it up like a mental patient every time I read it. Throw in a dalliance with the next-door neighbor's wife, and our randy protagonist's final inner battle against his evil split personality, and you've got one of Japan's most bizarre and hilarious naughty book imports out there!<br />The final chapter includes few other depraved brother-sister relationships, including a little gender-bending story that I didn't care for (BTW why do hentai mangaphiles find she-males so interesting, anyway?). But, I can overlook that little lull in the fun, since it's at the very end. And there's plenty of other depraved illustrations &amp; captions to get happy with!<br />`Late!	2002-01-05
US	52539649	R1EVI06G8X3X5H	0768838118	886902827	Victorian Year 2002 Calendar	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Get it while the year's still young!	This particular calendar line has always been an annual Christmas present to my mom. She finds the soft-textured artwork, filled with regal-looking high-society ladies, cute ruby-cheeked young'uns, and borders brimming with roses &amp; other dainty potpourri-style flowers to be a real treat for the eyes. I don't get the whole pageantry of the whole Victorian motif myself; personally, I'm happy with one of those cheapie dealies from the local drug store. But we're not talkin' about me here!<br />As for the calendar's format- well, it's fairly standard. Each row of seven starts on Sunday, and ends on the following Saturday. Most of the squares have a date, in sequential order from 1 to 28, 29 (well, not this year), 30, or 31. Two of the squares (either at the top left or bottom right corners) are devoted to the previous month and the subsequent month as a reference. Oh yes, there's also announcements of the various U.S. &amp; Canadian holidays, as well as the moon phases and standard/daylight savings times occurrences, right on the dates they're supposed to happen. You know, the usual things that one expects in a yearly day-keeper.<br />In conclusion: if you're into the art of the Victorian age, and you're in the market for a nice wall calendar that doesn't have too many frills, and is being offered at a good price, then this is just what you're lookin' for. But you better get it fast, while the year's still fresh!<br />`Late	2002-01-03
US	52539649	R13JCUGZB05ET2	1566933048	938613076	Star Wars Return of the Jedi (Movie Script Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	One of the better editions of the Star Wars movie scripts	Premiere Magazine's movie screenplays tend to be a bit plain & straightforward-looking, yet eye-catching at the same time. Depending on whether or not the movie is considered a classic or `popular', the color of the thin posterboard-stock cover will be black or red (the latter being the case for the ROTJ script), respectively. The writing on the cover & spine is in gold foil. The front cover is a die-cut, with the movie's release one-sheet poster featured in the void. Although the die-cut gives the script an attractive look, it tends to get caught up on the edges of the other books on my shelf when I put it away, which can lead to wrinkling and tearing of the cover. So needless to say, I gotta make sure there's a decent space between books when I put this away.<br />The Script itself is printed in the basic screenplay typeset and format, with each page printed on one side only. The typeface isn't too bold, and can be hard to read at times. The back of the book includes all of the movies (up to 1994) the main cast members have appeared in, as well as four color & four B/W photo reproductions from the movie. I was somewhat disappointed by the kinds of photos included with the ROTJ script- they're the rather plain & very common publicity stills that have been seen many times over in endless other Star Wars publications. I was kinda hoping for some `new' pics, but I guess I'm just S.O.L. in that department...<br />Aside from `Return of the Jedi', there are also Premiere scripts of the first two pre-SE `Star Wars' flicks, the Star Trek movies from II through VI, The Indiana Jones Trilogy, Rocky, The Wizard of Oz, and many others. If you've a fave movie that's considered a classic, or a popular modern release from the 80s or earlier, there's a good chance that Premiere magazine published a script of it. Unfortunately, they've all been out of print for several years now, which means you're gonna hafta do some big-time hunting if you want to get the Premiere screenplay of your fave flick. More power to you...<br />One last thing: this particular script is of the original ROTJ. Check out the `Return of The Jedi Script Facsimile' if you're looking for a somewhat similar presentation of the Special Edition screenplay.<br />`Lateour fave flick. More power to you...<br />One last thing: this particular script is of the original ROTJ. Check out the `Return of The Jedi Script Facsimile' if you're looking for a somewhat similar presentation of the Special Edition screenplay.<br />`Late	2001-12-31
US	52539649	R2TZY48A4ZL2H0	1580630391	574096213	The Encyclopedia Shatnerica	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The man behind the rug (or, rather, underneath it)	Diggin' through my endless piles of Trek-related literature one day, I discovered (or, more properly, re-discovered) this little alphabetical chronicle of the man behind Jimmers! An A-to-Z guide (from 'Airplane II' to 'Zmed, Adrian') that reads a little like an unauthorized biography, the Encyclopedia Shatnerica covers the man's many stage, screen &amp; TV projects (most of 'em just gawdawful in the eyes of the author), as well as his thankfully short-lived musical career and those books that he allegedly wrote.<br /> Also discussed are Shatner's legendary quirks, foibles, and just plain weird behavior that have become legend. More than a few great anecdotes from his fellow thespians are included as well, all broken down into a collection of brief, yet surprisingly informative passages. From the Trekkie Nation on down to those 'PriceLine' mavens, there's a little something for everybody in this paperback!<br />'Late	2001-12-30
US	52539649	R2JL2XZAYNHV3E	155958100X	180476086	Great Expectations	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great expectations, sad results...	Wow! With a nice, down-to-earth style that most folks can follow without moving their lips too much whilst reading, Dennis Pottenger does a bang-up job of updating Charles D!ckens' classic tome of a boy's going from rags to riches! The similarities are astounding! Except for the key characters, that is. And the time setting. And the fact that the new version's subject is NFL football. Oh yes, the new rendition's ending isn't as happy as the original's was (well, for Niners fans anyway). Actually, now that I think about it, there's almost no similarities at all between D!ckens' timeless story and Pottenger's memoirs of his seven-month experience with a team that was on the cusp of destiny. Except for the title, that is. And the fact that both were written in English. Well, actually, the first \\"G.E.\\" is written in what most non-Yanks would consider proper English, whilst \\"G.E.2\\" is penned in that despised, bastardized American English. You know, words ending in -or, instead of -our, or `program' instead of `programme', `parking lot' instead of `car park', and the like...<br />But I digress. If you've ever wanted to take a behind-the-scenes look at the Niner's 1990 season of hard-fought triumphs and ultimate tragedy, this tome is the best way to go about it. Their quest for the three-peat- a still-unprecedented three consecutive Super Bowl victories- is shown from the author &amp; players' view of the game-day field, the locker room, and the training field. From their victory at Super Bowl XXIV that sparked the quest to the aftermath of their dream-ending conference-championship loss the following season, the author takes the reader on a week-by-week tour of every hard-fought victory and horrific loss.<br />Although he does go into the lives of the team's marquee players like Joe Montana &amp; Ronnie Lott, Pottenger focuses mainly on a handful of lesser-known red-and-gold-clad warriors. There's tight end Jamie Williams, considered the best-blocking TE in the league atthe time. Leg break-prone WR Mike Sherrard once again facees the ordeal of yet another leg fracture that further stymies his playing ability. There's center Jesse Sapolu's tribulations trying to stay healthy and not let his teammates down with his absence. There's hard-hitting safety Chet Brooks' knee problem that cuts down his playing time. Rookie RB/ kick returner Dexter Carter's inconsistent effort is getting to him. And former Giants NT Jim Burt is just itchin' to get back at his old team! The week-by-week reactions &amp; insights of these players and others really gave me a small idea of what it's like to play in the big leagues, and trying your damnedest to get the job done as every weekly opponent gives their all to stop you &amp; your teammates from making history.<br />Quite a bit of attention is paid to `Frisco's two big games against the New York Giants. Pottenger gives the first game, a hard-hitting 7-3 Niner Monday-night victory, and almost play-by-play feel to it. He also does the same (though to a lesser extent) for their last-second heartbreak conference championship loss that saw Montana fall and not play again for nearly two years, and Roger Craig fumble the game away. Needless to say, there's few famous Niner losses that were more harrowing than this one.<br />If you're a Niner fan (or a N.Y. Giants fan in need of a good laugh), and you feel that you can manage this little tragic tale of one of pro sports' greatest franchises and their ultimately futile shot at history, then `Great Expectations' could very well be the thing you need!<br />`Late	2001-12-29
US	52539649	R2Q4DR1YE6YSKB	0916291529	867603994	The Gas We Pass: The Story of Farts	Books	5	3	7	N	N	'Culture shock' has never been more entertaining!	Man, oh man! Childrens books discussing the topics of certain unpleasant bodily functions in a simple, concise, straightforward manner! As if anime, manga, bizarre household gadgets, cheesy Godzilla flicks  &amp; the unintentionally-hilarious misuse of the English language on consumer products werent enough for me to dig Japanese popular culture already! Of course, culture shock being what it is, one nations informative tome for the kiddies is another nations gag gift. Which was exactly the case here when the rents received this along with a few other things at the neighbors annual Christmas get-together. Needless to say, the holidays are rarely ever dull round here!<br />Any-hoo, as you mayve guessed, this little hardcover discusses the topic of unpleasant gaseous emissions that emanate from the members of the animal kingdom. With less than thirty informative pages, the words are few. But as I mentioned earlier, the book gets right to the point without any kinda sugar-coating. Included among the factoids are the internal processes that produce the hideous releases, the average volume per release (in English rather than metric scale), and other little tidbits thatll give you and/or the kiddies more knowledge on the subject than you ever wanted to know in the first place!<br />The illustrations are quite simplistic, and are colored mostly in flat tones of orange, green, yellow, and blue. If youre expecting high-definition manga here, youll be in for a rather rude disappointment!<br />Late	2001-12-28
US	52539649	RY9508A1AK271	0671501283	946421087	'Scuse Me While I Kiss This Guy: And Other Misheard Lyrics	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Oh, so THAT'S what he said...	The title of this book was the big thing that caught me, since that's exactly what I thought Jimi was actually saying when I first heard `Purple Haze'! Small world, huh? And being someone who comes from a long line of song lyric-manglers, this book proved that I wasn't alone in this world when it came to makin' some of the words up as I went along. Heck, even to this day ma &amp; I still argue over whether that guy's little bottle in `Love Potion Number 9' was broken by a cop or a clock! I'm going with the cop on this one, by the way. Needless to say, this little paperback was the perfect gag gift for ma on her birthday!<br />The only real problem I had with this book was its brevity. At most, each page has only two sets of lyrics (the incorrect version(s) above, the song &amp; artist in the middle, &amp; the proper words below). Because of this, I found it to be a bit pricey for the amount of content it contains. However, it does have an index at the end, which is a real plus if you're looking for a particular verse that you've been tryin' to figure out. And if it's not in this tome, you can always check the indexes of the other `...Kiss This Guy' books that have been published!<br />Although I agree with the thought that some of the incorrect lyrics in this book seem too far off the mark to be legitimate equivocations, I've personally experienced and have been a witness to far worse verse-mangling. So it's no real surprise to me when I read some of the more seemingly far-fetched examples!<br />`Late	2001-12-24
US	52539649	R152A5LZCZV3LU	156097334X	205317877	Super Taboo Volume 1 (v. 1)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Depraved, raunchy, sickening... and freakin' hilarious	Good grief- the things I do to entertain myself. I walked into the local comic shop one day and decided to hit the Adult Comics section, which consisted of a small, cramped room with numerous shelves of some of the nastiest smut ever imagined by comic artists. I started my little adventure by taking a peek at what the horndogs from the Far East have whipped up, and cracked open the first issue of Super Taboo. What I discovered was one of the most shocking, depraved, and disgusting examples of hardcore hentai manga I've ever laid eyes on. It was also one of the most hilarious reads I've ever experienced. Who knew a young man's (mostly unsuccessful) battles to control his sick, incestuous urges would be such a gut-busting yuk-fest? Of course, when mom &amp; sis (and a college instructor) are practically askin' for it, how can a guy resist? Especially when he's got an evil and unbelievably randy second personality that comes to the forefront whenever he's, um, \\"properly stimulated\\". The high point of this book's humor: mom says grace before commencing a little family fun!<br />Yeah, I know what you're thinking after reading the previous paragraph: \\"What kinda sick weirdo are you?\\", you're saying to yourself. What can I say, I'm very adept at finding humor in the most unlikely places. But if you think I'm a pervo now, wait'll you read what I have to say next. For some horrific reason I can't fathom, whenever I read this little tome of illustrated depravity from the land of the rising sun, I imagine mommie dearest being voiced by June Cleaver from `Leave It To Beaver', and our split-personality-suffering mama's-boy protagonist speaking with the voice of Wally (same show). Now, THAT'S sick!<br />`Late	2001-12-23
US	52539649	RPZ1NCWPOLVGD	0871355531	500095203	Punisher: Return to Big Nothing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Punisher's past catches up with him	If you're looking for a \\"vintage\\" 80s Punisher tale full of all the things you've come to expect from him and the action genre of comics, you might want to give this graphic novel a gander. Included in this adventure are several signature Punisher situations: Frank mowin' down criminals, Frank mowin' down some more criminals, lotsa of angst &amp; rage, Vietnam flashbacks, and the final one-on-one \\"fight\\" where our fave homicidal maniac goes by his own rules and does the unexpected to attain dark victory. Underrated penciler/ co-colorist Mike Zeck's art (with finishing touches by inker John Beatty and wonderful pre-PhotoShop-era coloration) is top-notch. <br />`Late	2001-12-20
US	52539649	R1P42T3OW50MRG	0785100555	690875730	The Punisher, a man named Frank	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Marvel's legendary vigilante in the Old West	Aping the DC comics' Elseworlds line, Marvel puts a similar alternate-reality spin on their trusty vigilante. The new setting: the Wild West! And, like his modern-day counterpart, his family's been kilt, &amp; he's left to die. But somehow he survives, and gets on the trail of the guys who'd done him wrong. <br />Noted action/adventure comic writer Chuck Dixon borrows &amp; competently adapts the attitude, feel &amp; some of the elements of &quot;The Man With No Name&quot; trilogy &amp; &quot;The Wild Bunch&quot;, and puts them together into a pretty good (if somewhat standard) little throwback tale of one man's revenge in the turn-of-the-century frontier. And the legendary John Buscema helps bring it all to visual 'life' with his renderings in this Punisher tribute to classic westerns. Definitely worth a look for Punisher buffs of all stripe, as well as Wild West aficionados!<br />This book is 64 pages long, and includes the standard deluxe-edition comic book cardstock cover. Art is printed on semi-glossy paper.<br />'Late	2001-12-13
US	52539649	R1TVS698YQEHTG	0312928025	225899714	Star Wreck: The Generation Gap	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Don't bother beaming this one up	Taking shots at classic Star Trek &amp; the Next Generation, `Star Wreck' reads somewhat like a genre parody in the spirit of `Airplane!' and `The Naked Gun'. Plenty of sight-gags and dry one-liners abound here. Unfortunately, the quality of the humor is more on par with `Police Academy'- a fair deal of it falls flat, or is just plain dumb.<br />If you're looking for decent sci-fi parody, rent `Spaceballs' or `GalaxyQuest' on video, or dredge up the MAD Star Trek Special mag at your local comic books &amp; collectibles shop. Heck, even `Star Wars Episode I' grabs more laughs (especially when Jar Jar isn't in the scene) than this ridiculous little tome!<br />`Late	2001-11-30
US	52539649	R2OSLROZL3SSP6	1582401837	27203823	Powers Vol. 1: Who Killed Retro Girl?	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More great hard-boiled action from Bendis &amp; Co.	Being a follower of Brian Michael Bendis' work since his run on 'Sam and Twitch', I decided to pick up his hard-boiled-crime-story comic co-creation (along with Michael Avon Oeming), 'Powers'. It features an interesting premise: police detectives who investigate super-hero/villain homicides. True, it has just about all of the cliches you've come to expect from the genre. There's the loud, overbearing captain who wants our heroes to get the job done, and no excuses. There's the smarmy jerk cop who's always trying to butt in on our heroes' case, and knows just the wrong things to say. Let's not forget the spunky-yet-tough babe partner of the story's focal character. And of course we've got the medical examiner/ forensic pathologist who gets a bit too technical with his explanations, and eats his meals in the morgue amongst the fresh corpses in a nonchalant manner. Finally, and most importantly, the main protagonist has had a 'fall from grace' as it were, as well as a deep, dark secret. If you're looking for originality in these areas, you'll definitely be in for a disappointment.<br />But it wasn't really the settings or stock police-story cliches that drew me in; it was the dialogue. Bendis has a gift for penning amazingly realistic back-and-forth conversations between characters, and the many moments of sniping, bonding, and just plain revelations in this collection flow with the right tempo and intensity (granted you can picture the conversations in your mind, that is). The quality of the artwork may be a bit off-putting to some- Pat Garrahy's quasi-cartoonish renderings are reminiscent of the WB's animated 'Batman', 'Batman Beyond', and 'Superman' shows, although the language &amp; situations are significantly more mature in nature. Personally, I found the art a refreshing change from the usual over-done super-hero-style doodlings. 'Powers' is one title that proves that the art isn't necessarily what makes a good comic book.<br />As for what I've heard from othersthat this particular TPB didn't develop and flesh out some of the characters to their fullest degree: this collection is merely a reprinting of the first six issues in an ongoing series. If you want development, check out ishes seven and beyond.<br />'Late!	2001-11-28
US	52539649	RZ3W2A44JNX96	0634010964	828191364	South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great if you need the music, but not necessarily the words..	This book is definitely a must-have if you require the notes to play the tunes. However, if you're only trying to figure out the lyrics, the best way to go about this is to play the &quot;South Park: BLU DVD&quot; with the English subtitles on (or captions on if you have it on VHS). Then you can sing along with the movie! Neat, huh? Unfortunately, there's no 'bouncing ball' to follow when the kids do break into song, but hey, you can't have everything!<br />'Late	2001-11-26
US	52539649	R1PVJ4RQ74XY7J	0345409817	462337382	Star Wars: The Annotated Screenplays	Books	4	18	19	N	N	My favorite published Star Wars scripts book!	One great way to gauge the popularity of the original Star Wars trilogy: just check out all the different versions of the movies' scripts that have been published over the years. First, there were the original Art of Star Wars books. Then, there were the updated Art of Star Wars books. Then there were the Premiere Magazine Movie Script Library editions. Then yet another updated Art of Star Wars series (this time with the Special Edition stuff). And that's not including the NPR radio drama scripts!<br />Out of all of these, however, my preferred SW script book is the &quot;Star Wars Trilogy Annotated Screenplays&quot;. It has the lines to all three flicks all in one convenient 320-page-long paperback. But, there's more to like about this particular paperback than mere convenience and saving of shelf space. It also includes various footnote/endnote comments by George Lucas, Joe Johnston, Irvin Kershner, and other folks who worked on the movies and influenced the screenplays. Most of the discussions regard the genesis of various scenes, how the characters evolved from their original incarnations to what you see on the screen today, parts that were altered, what the alterations were, and other little-known behind-the-scenes bits. Also included are the Special Edition revamps, highlighted in grey. So not only do you get the complete screenplays, you also get insight on what it took to evolve, create, and eventually realize this legendary cinematic trifecta. This one's definitely a must-have for both Star Wars geeks (especially you live-action-adventure RPG types out there) and Hollywood history buffs.<br />There are a few downsides to this book, however. Being in paperback format with plain novel-grade paper, this book isn't quite as durable as some of the other screenplays. Also, the print is rather small (especially the scripts), and is likely a real bear to read for folks who lack perfect eyesight. You might have to break out the magnifying glass for this one!<br />'Late!	2001-11-23
US	52539649	R3KB1HRPYGDK4C	0671034758	776780668	The Star Trek Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded Edition (Star Trek: All)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great source of general STAR TREK knowledge	The Star Trek Encyclopedia is a very good quick-reference A to Z guide for those times when you need general knowledge of the various shows &amp; movies, characters, equipment, vessels, aliens, and more. Not only will it help the average geekin' Trek fan-boy bone up on his knowledge, it's also a wonderful resource to help put an end to most of those knock-down, drag-out Trekkie arguments that often pop up in the middle of the big convention! Well, maybe not that Khan/Chekov debacle in `Star Trek II', but you can't have everything!<br />Although it's fairly pricey, the book is printed on semi-slick paper, and includes full-color photos &amp; illustrations. Because of these two things, and other stuff that makes this trade-size tome a higher-quality Star Trek book than usual, I think it's more than worth the asking price!<br />`Late	2001-11-23
US	52539649	R5WAPC3YL7POP	1565111583	741454052	Return of the Jedi (Star Wars (Penguin Audio))	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not quite as good as its predecessors	After listening to and enjoying the other two radio adaptations of the Star Wars trilogy, I had high hopes for the `Return Of The Jedi' radio drama. True, it finally hit the airwaves 13 years after the movie did (due mostly to NPR budget cuts back in the early 80s), but I was still hoping it would be a good show.<br />Well, when I finally heard it, I found it to be an okay presentation- not horrible, but not nearly as spectacular or sprawling as its predecessors. In ways, it had the feel of being a rush-job: it was only six half-hour episodes long, compared to SW's thirteen and ESB's ten. True, it expanded the scope of the movie with extra side-`scenes' that one would imagine was what happened somewhere off-stage; but it didn't extend things to the degree that the previous ones did. This is likely due to the fact that writer Brian Daley was writing the scripts whilst suffering from terminal cancer, and wanted to complete the project before his passing. A still-limited NPR budget may have also had something to do with it. Then of course there's the rabid fan base who consider ROTJ the weakest entry of the original trilogy; therefore the limitations of the original source material should be taken into consideration. These and/or other factors likely led to this radio show not being quite as long or fleshed-out as it could've been.<br />Another factor that I felt adversely affected the quality of this radio show was the changing of the voice-over cast from the last two shows. Although only a few of the original movie cast members actually lent their voices for their respective characters on radio (Mark \\"Luke\\" Hamill, Anthony \\"C-3P0 Daniels, &amp; Billy Dee \\"Lando \\" Williams), they added a certain charm that gave the shows a degree of legitimacy with the fans. Sadly, Hamill and Billy Dee were no-shows for this one, and their replacements, despite their valiant efforts, couldn't hope to do nearly as good a job. Joshua Fardon's Luke Skywalker was a bit too mellow, and lacked that air of excitability that Hamill had given the characters in both the films and on the air. <br />Fortunately, just about every other voice actor from the last two shows came back to do their parts. The most notable of these are Brock Peters as Darth Vader, and John Lithgow as Yoda. Peters' deep voice is almost as good as James Earl Jones' Vader voice- the right feel of fearsome, unparalleled power and authority. Peters is also one of the few links between Star Wars and its sci-fi rival Star Trek (aside from the visual-effects guys)- he's also known as Admiral Cartwright in Star Treks IV &amp; VI, and Benjamin Sisko's dad on DS9. And John Lithgow- well, now you know that `3rd Rock' wasn't his first extraterrestrial advenure! His Yoda sounds even sillier than Frank Oz's Grover-like sound. <br />There's a couple of other fairly well-known names adding their voices to this mix, including Ed Asner as Jabba the Hutt! From a gruff newpaper editor to a giant beige-and-green slug- boy, is that a strange career twist or what! And Ed Begley, Jr. as Boba Fett? Hmm... I'm not too hooked on that particular selection. Sure, Begley has played a few bad-guy roles rather well, but not the menacing kind like Fett is. I just can't connect the man with the character. Oh well...<br />Anyway, that's my assessment; make of it what you wish. If you're still not sure about whether or not you'll like this presentation, I recommend taking a look at the ROTJ Radio Drama Scripts paperback by  Brian Daley (available at Amazon). Other than that, it's all up to you!<br />`Late	2001-11-23
US	52539649	R11L2HITW6R3PW	0345402278	220710965	The Star Wars Encyclopedia	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great source of general STAR WARS information	If you're a big geekin' fanboy who needs to occasionally bone up on your general knowledge of that \\"Galaxy Far, Far Away\\", then the Star Wars Encyclopedia is the best A-to-Z quick reference guide to get. Not only does this giant tome cover subjects from the original trilogy, it also includes tidbits of info from the various Dark Horse comic books, the novels (including the Timothy Zahn trilogy), the Droids and Ewoks cartoon shows, and even the Ewoks TV movies and the infamous `Star Wars Holiday Special'! There's all sorts of characters, weaponry, ships, equipment, planets, and much more between the covers! It's also a wonderful resource that'll help put an end to many of those knockdown-dragout Star Wars fanboy arguments you're always having with your buds! Well, maybe not that Greedo-firing-first debacle in `Star Wars: The Special Edition', but you can't have everything! Also included: a quick-reference timeline so you can see which when each particular story- be it a movie, comic-book story arc, novel, or otherwise- happened in relation to the `first' Star Wars flick, which is designated point zero in the timeline. <br />Although it's fairly pricey, the book is printed on semi-slick paper, and includes full-color photos &amp; illustrations. Because of these two things, and other stuff that makes this trade-size tome a higher-quality Star Wars book than usual, I think it's more than worth the asking price!<br />`Late	2001-11-23
US	52539649	R331PG3E89KRGC	0942627253	109689846	The Official Book of the Super Bowl XXIX: The Golden State of Football	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A look at the pageantry &amp; hype of Super Bowl Sunday	While not exactly the most exciting Super Bowl ever played- the Niners pretty much had it won at halftime- this book does give the Niner/pro football fan a good look at the glitz, glamor, &amp; hype that surrounds the `Great American Time-Out'. The enormity of this amazing event in pro sports is depicted in the seemingly-endless array of color photos, with a bit of text here &amp; there. <br />There's pre-game pics of the fans, decked out in some of the most interesting clothing &amp; costumes ever seen as they pay tribute to their allies. There's the prepping of the field for the big day. You'll also see the players coming off the planes, the annual NFL Experience `carnival', and go behind the scenes at rehearsals for the halftime show.<br />Then there's the game itself, featuring plenty of 49er highlights (Steve Young's amazing performance, Jerry Rice &amp; Ricky Watters' two-man touchdown show, Deion Sanders' steppin') and a few Charger Moments as well (Andre Coleman's 98-yard kickoff return TD). Kathy Lee Gifford's national anthem and the `Indiana Jones'-themed halftime show (with the Super Bowl trophy standing in for the gold idol from `Raiders') are also depicted.<br />Finally, there's the post-game wrap-up, featuring stills from the victorious 49ers locker room, press conferences by both teams, and the Niner victory parade down San Francisco's main drag. Finally, a few words from commissioner Paul Tagliabue, the sentimental thoughts of Hall-of-Famers Dan Fouts &amp; Ronnie Lott, and an appendix of game stats  are included to give this book a little something aside from photos to look at. <br />`Late	2001-11-13
US	52539649	R3EEFG9TULKJAO	0671727982	258087806	The Super Bowl: Celebrating a Quarter-Century of America's Greatest Game	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great recaps &amp; retrospectives of the first XXIV games!	Although 11 games out of date as of my writing this, THE SUPER BOWL is one of the best publications about &quot;The Great American Time-Out&quot; I've ever flipped through. Featuring a foreword by the late NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle discussing his great and not-so-great Super Bowl memories, this heavy hardcover coffee-table monster gives the reader some pretty good views (both in pictures and text) of the country's biggest sporting event. <br />Each contest includes a foldout page featuring all of the players' names in the starting lineups &amp; substitutions, all of the offensive, defensive &amp; special teams stats, and every single play that was made. On the reverse side of each foldout is a painting or other illustration relating to its respective game. The article for each game, about ten pages in length, goes into the backstory of the teams that competed and some of the more colorful moments leading up to the big dance, as well as the highlights (and lowlights) of the game itself.<br />Although I'm a 49ers &amp; Redskins follower, I found the two Steeler-Cowboys contests, X &amp; XIII, to be the most interesting write-ups. They were two teams that apparently were polar opposites (at least from the text I read here), and couldn't stand each other. Plenty of trash-talking and genuine disgust abound. This enmity made for a couple of the most hard-fought championships in pro football. They were full of great moments like Thomas 'Hollywood' Henderson's shocking game-opening reverse/ kickoff return &amp; Lynn Swann's amazing catch in X, and not-so-great moments like Dallas TE Jackie Smith's drop of a &quot;sure-thing&quot; Cowboys touchdown and a controversial pass-interference call in XIII.<br />But, there's also plenty of other notable moments in this book. Vince Lombardi's legend, Joe Namath's guarantee, Garo's gaffe capping the only undefeated season in league history, the Niners' drive to victory, the rise of the Steeler &amp; 49er dynasties, the sad performances of four-time losers Minnesota &amp; Denver, and more are mentioned and recapped in good detail. <br />The appendix features Super Bowl team &amp; individual records, and composite standings. Of course, due this publication being over a decade old, many of the records no longer stand. Also included is the all-time Super Bowl roster of every player that set foot on the field or warmed the bench in each of the first XXIV contests. All in all, a wonderful compendium of Super Bowl stats and information-well, at least for the time it was published, anyway.<br />Sadly, although I found this volume to be very enjoyable, the dust jacket isn't very durable. I had to tape the corners and edges of the jacket a few months after I bought it to curtail further disintegration. Other than that, I'm hoping the publishers will see fit to produce an new, updated edition one of these years. Unfortunately, I doubt it'll happen any time soon. More than likely, they'll wait until the 50th anniversary (that's Super Bowl L to the Roman-numerically-declined out there) to put out a new one. Guess I'll just have to sit tight 'til then...<br />'Late	2001-11-12
US	52539649	RIM9SS31AL1VS	1563893126	969819683	Preacher VOL 02: Until the End of the World	Books	4	1	3	N	N	One eye &amp; one ear down...	This volume of the PREACHER saga is where the REAL fun begins for me! In the second half of this book, creators Garth Ennis &amp; Steve Dillon intro my fave character: Herr Starr, the head enforcer of the world's most powerful covert organization! I consider him the most interesting and colorful 'heavy' ever to hit the four-color medium! His no-nonsense attitude and blunt &amp; acerbic words as he tries to track down Reverend Custer make for some of the funniest moments in comics! His penchant for unbelievable misfortune also begins here: in this volume he loses an ear in a firefight at a high-society orgy, and involuntarily experiences the- um, joy- of the love that dare not speak its name for the first time! The loss of one's body parts &amp; dignity doesn't get much weirder (or funnier) than this!<br />But, let's not forget the first half of this illustrated tome, where we get an inside look at the Rev's past, from his being raised by a ruthless and sadistic 'family' to his eventual breakout from this nighmarish clan. Then there's the capture of the Irish vampire Cassidy by Starr &amp; his mercs, which sets up the events chronicled in the next volume of the PREACHER TPB series. Yep, it's kinda like 'The Empire Strikes Back' of comics: a really compelling and wonderful adventure that alla sudden leaves you hangin'! But, unlike 'Empire', it has lots more naughty language, gory ultraviolence, naughty bits, and substance abuse. And it's not based in outer space, or 'a long time ago'. And the main hero's a bit tougher than that teenaged blond kid from that desert planet. Come to think of it, there really aren't that many similarities 'Preacher Vol 2' and ESB, are there...?<br />Anyway, time for me to fall back to Earth. If you've already read the first PREACHER TPB and you feel like continuing the adventure, then I'm pretty sure you won't be disappointed with this installment. It's got everything you've come to expect from the previous book, and then some!<br />'Late	2001-11-12
US	52539649	R2FNOPAYMOQGC0	0061000256	708154224	America's Most Wanted: How Television Catches Crooks	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The story of AMW's roots and initial success	Although not quite up-to-date (this book was released in 1990), `America's Most Wanted: How TV Catches Crooks' gives the average AMW viewer an inside look at the various things that go into making an episode of Fox's legendary crime-busting show. Also discussed is the conception and creation of the show, which was originally a mere half-hour segment, rather than the full 60 minutes seen today. An interesting part of AMW's genesis was the search for a suitable host. One of the candidates was a certain New York prosecutor named Rudolph Giuliani. The Fox folks decided not to go with him, though, because they felt the future New York mayor's political ambitions would cause him to use the show merely as a stepping-stone to get into political office. It was a decision which, in hindsight (at least according to most New Yorkers) eventually turned out to be the right call.<br />Then there's the most important part of putting an AMW segment together: selecting and producing the various criminal profiles that are submitted, as well as the process of casting for the re-enactments. Then there's the scouting of locations to shoot the scenes, as well as the host spots whenever Walsh goes on location. The book also goes into detail about some of their most notable captures in the series' first two seasons, including David James Roberts, the first capture the show was credited with, and John Emil List, who was caught almost 20 years after slaying his family. Although described in much more detail in `Tears of Rage', there's also a section that describes John Walsh's tragedy that led him to crusade for children's &amp; victim's rights, and eventually end up as host of the show. Other bits include an appendix featuring the first 80-some-odd captures credited to AMW, and a brief interview with Walsh and the aforementioned Roberts.<br />Although I found it to be a pretty easy read, this book's almost 400-page length took a while to get through. And even though it's dated by over a decade, it does give the reader a good idea of the genesis and history of AMW.<br />`Late	2001-11-07
US	52539649	R2OBUCWHGMT6DF	9992237813	534610305	Terminator 2: Judgement Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Brief info with great color photos	Put out by Starlog, sci-fi's most successful fanzine, the T2 Official Movie Magazine includes brief career bios of cast &amp; crew up to 1991, including stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton,  co-writer/director James Cameron, and other contributors. Also present are a few articles on the special &amp; morphing FX that this movie made famous. There's also a brief synopsis of the events of the movie, including a few moments that were eventually cut from the theatrical release, then restored in the T2 Ultimate Edition DVD.<br />Although the various articles aren't quite as in-depth as other lit on this movie, it does contain a big array of color photos and stills, many of which can't be seen elsewhere. It's definitely a must-have for the T2 collectibles completist!<br />If you find this particular publication appealing, I also recommend:<BR>- T2: The Illustrated Screenplay by James Cameron &amp; William Wisher<BR>- The Making of T2 by Don Shay &amp; Jody Duncan.<br />`Late	2001-11-06
US	52539649	R35C2UU0W5HLTU	156389405X	69617634	Preacher VOL 04: Ancient History	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Time to get a bit sidetracked	I don't know about anyone else, but I found volume 4 of the PREACHER library to be a nice change of pace, and an enjoyable little sidetrack away from the main storyline. It was interesting checking out the back story of some of the series' most notable supporting cast members. I also enjoyed seeing other artists' (aside from Steve Dillon) renditions of these characters. If you're looking for a few amazing PREACHER tales that are off the beaten path, then `Ancient History' won't disappoint!<br />If you thought the Saint of Killers was an unpleasant character in PREACHER's main storyline, wait'll you see his origin story! A man so full of hate that he literally does the impossible: freezes hell over! Oh yeah, then there's the part where he offs the devil before he really gets his killing spree goin', which gives you an idea of how much of a bad mofo he really is. Speaking of the devil(!), this particular story arc reveals the name he prefers to go by. And it's NOT Satan, Scratch, Be'elzebub, or Lucifer!<br />The second part depicts how PREACHER's beloved horribly disfigured teenager with a heart of gold, Arse-Face, came to be. I'll not go into too many details about it; let's just say his decision to drastically alter his facial features was a misguided attempt to emulate a particular grunge artist's suicide. 90s teenage angst, substance use, and physical &amp; mental abuse abound in this ish.<br />`The Good Ol' Boys' features quite a few moments of gratuitous, gory violence in the over-the-top vein of Paul Verhoeven action flicks. There's also a few great scenes featuring that Ennis-trademark you're-not-supposed-to-laugh-at-that-style humor, highlighted by one hillbilly's disgustingly hilarious fond memories of- um, romance- with various inanimate objects and members of other species. Throw in a gorilla getting bludgeoned to death with a baseball bat, and a swamp chase featuring a middle-eastern cartel boss whose attempts at using various English-language curses areboth pitiful and gut-bustingly funny, and you get some of Ennis' best stuff!<br />`Late	2001-11-06
US	52539649	R3UXW1IKLL5HPH	0399132643	676175077	Out of Control Confessions of an NFL Casualty	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A story as brutal &amp; hard-hitting as 'Hollywood' himself!	I've always enjoyed reading autobiographies where the author's not afraid to let you in on the more lurid details and the darker side of his/her life. And being a follower of pro football, Thomas 'Hollywood' Henderson's amazing memoirs of growing up in the Austin ghetto, his pro football playing days as a linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys' Doomsday II defense, and his near-self-destruction from his addictions to cocaine, painkillers, and alcohol makes 'Out of Control' a double treat for me! <br />With the help of sports author Peter Knobler, 'Hollywood' discusses his darker days and eventual reclamation in the plain and straightforward manner that made his reputation as one of the NFL's most colorful characters, and makes for an absorbing read. I went from cover to cover in one sitting with this one!<br />There are a few other interesting and outrageous moments in Henderson's life aside from his drug-and-sex binges as well. The best of these were his front-row view of the climactic Roger Staubach / Clint Longley sucker-punch in the Cowboys locker room, and checking out Richard Pryor's home porno flicks at Pryor's house during one of his infamous parties.<br />Whether you're a football/sports fan or just an avid reader of 'True confessions'-style biographies/memoirs, then this is one book you shouldn't miss!<br />'Late	2001-11-04
US	52539649	RVESS9MT5JKLV	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The beginning of the Garth Ennis legend!	Although I rather enjoyed the occasional issue of `Preacher' that I'd flip through at the local comic shop, I never really got into collecting the series. Then I discovered the first trade paperback, and took a closer look at this legendary funnybook tale of a former Texas minister, his girlfriend, and their mysterious Irish vampire sidekick on their mission to find God. And I must say, I've got to go along with what many of the critics and fellow fans have said about it. It truly is an amazing hybrid of road movie, western, &amp; horror flick, with a bit of modern Biblical epic, and some cop drama &amp; murder-mystery/suspense as well (in this particular volume, anyway). This four-color epic hits on practically every movie genre you can think of short of sci-fi! Well, without it being a movie, anyway. Of course, from the rumors running through the grapevine of comic-book geekdom, `Preacher' may soon be hitting the celluloid as hard as it did the bristol board!<br />Although writer Garth Ennis was no stranger to conceptualizing some of comics' darkest and most disturbing, yet unbelievably hilarious moments before he started this saga, `Preacher' was the book cemented his reputation for these things. With the help of Steve Dillon's renderings, Ennis proves himself the master of the kinda blood &amp; guts that'd make the likes of Paul Verhoeven &amp; Quentin Tarantino queasy, yet mixed with an amazingly dark &amp; sick sense of humor that helps... um... lighten the tone a bit. His rep for creating some of the freakiest and whacked-out supporting characters also began here, with the introduction of Arse-Face, the hideously disfigured teenage son of an overbearing podunk town sheriff. Another great character intro'd here is the Saint of Killers, an indestructible, immortal killing machine, sent by God's angels to deal with the reverend and his Deity-seeking quest. You can see more of his weirder &amp; deadlier side characters in `Hitman', `The Rifle Brigade', and `The Punisher: Welcome Back, Frank', all of which I recommend as well.<br />There's a whole lot more I could say about this `Preacher Vol. 1: Gone To Texas', but I think you get the idea. And besides, I don't want to give too much of the story away. If what I've written above has swayed you, feel free to check it out!<br />`Late	2001-10-30
US	52539649	RVNNSM4BNIVQ7	0312049692	964074806	Building a Champion: On Football and the Making of the 49Ers	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good stuff from one of the NFL's greatest coaches!	Being a fan of American pro football in general and the Niners in particular, I decided to give Bill Walsh's 'Building a Champion' a read. With the help of bay area sports scribe Glenn D!ckey, Walsh's famous calm and analytical style is faithfully translated to the written page. Throughout the course of this paperback, Walsh discusses his career of coaching in the NFL, from his initial assisting gig with the Raiders to his developing what would become known as the West Coast Offense as the QBs coach of the Bengals and Chargers in the 70s.<br />Then there's his biggest challenge and achievement- the turnaround of the San Francisco 49ers from league doormats to the team to beat in the 80s. From season to season, Walsh discusses the many highs and lows of coaching the Niners. He also goes into his philosophy and methods that helped keep the team successful over the years he coached them, and helped to maintain their success for several years following his departure. Sadly, many of his thoughts on how to improve and maintain a championship-form team would likely be considered outdated today, what with the added difficulties of less restricted free agency and the<br />salary cap, which he covers this in his follow-up, 'Finding The Winning Edge'.<br />Walsh also goes over the many trials and tribulations that he endured, such as learning the effects of drug abuse on players (lowlighted by a disastrous tryout by the infamous 'Hollywood' Henderson), and his coming close to quitting following the team's horrific showing in the strike-shortened 1982 season. I found his memories of dealing with the media somewhat absorbing, the high point- or low point, rather- being a confrontation with legendary Monday Night Football commentator Howard Cosell. Then there's the aspect of coaching that no sideline leader enjoys: the cutting of a beloved past-his-prime veteran. Walsh admits that this, out of all his duties, is the one he dreaded the most when he was running the show.<br />The last few pages are a small index of some of the most famous plays in 49er lore. Included is 'Brown Left Slot- Sprint Right Option' (Dwight Clark's Catch against Dallas), 'Red Right Tight- F Left- 20 HB Curl- X Up' (Montana's TD pass to Taylor to win Super Bowl XXIII), and a few other notable offensive formations.<br />Whether you're a Niner fan or a football follower in general, this is definitely one for your must-read list!<br />'Late	2001-10-27
US	52539649	R1DM9OB0XC8ZRH	0942627334	100347425	San Francisco 49ers	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The essential compendium of Niner lore!	Several years back, I overheard a Green Bay Packer aficionado's disdain for 49ers fans. His dislike for them spanned mainly from their relative lack of knowledge of Niner history compared to fans of other legendary NFL teams. Being a fairly well-read `Frisco aficionado, I thought of challenging his assumption, but I came to a realization that, in a general sense, he was correct. Aside from a few old-timer sports nuts, I've never really known a bay-area resident Niner fan who had a good running knowledge of his/her team's past achievements, heartbreaks, and rosters before their breakout 1981 season. Fortunately, this book is just  the thing that's needed to get the quasi-clueless red-and-gold die-hard a leg up on his/her Niner know-how! <br />Each of the teams' first fifty seasons are briefly profiled, along with the win-loss record from each year. From their post-WWII creation as part of a new football league, to their heartbreaking playoff loss to the Lions in '57, to their frustrating early-seventies playoff defeats to the Cowboys, to their amazing Cinderella 1981 season, to the Super Bowl years in the 80s and mid-90s, this book covers a lot of the bases when it comes to the teams' past highs &amp; lows.<br />And let's not forget some of their greatest moments, like overcoming a 28-point halftime deficit to beat the New Orleans Saints in what was at one time the greatest comeback in pro football history. Or Dwight Clark's \\"Catch\\" against Dallas, and the amazing third-quarter goal-line stand against Cincinnati that helped turned the tide in their first Super Bowl victory. There's Joe Montana's famous drive to beat the Bengals in Super Bowl XXIII. And who could forget Steve Young finally escaping from Montana's shadow with his amazing MVP performance in Super Bowl XXIX? Oops, I almost failed to mention Jerry Rice's career-spanning, single-handed rewriting of almost all of the NFL's significant receiving records!<br />Also included are profiles of the 49ers' most notable players and coaches. Frankie Albert, Dick Nolan, RC Owens, John Brodie, Y.A. Tittle, Joe Montana, Ronnie Lott, Bill Walsh, Dwight Clark, Hugh McElhenny, Leo Nomellini, Jerry Rice, and many more are each given a page or two about their amazing achievements and contributions as a Niner player, coach, or exec.<br />Then of course there's the great Niner stories and legends. You'll find out how linebacker Jack Reynolds earned the moniker \\"Hacksaw\\", and read about his penchant for driving himself to the home games already suited-up and ready to go. You'll discover who Len Eshmont was, and learn of the annual team award named in his honor. Then there's coach Bill Walsh dressing up as a bellhop to welcome his players to their hotel in Pontiac, Michigan before their first Super Bowl victory. Oops, let's not forget about Joe Montana's bike-pilfering practical jokes. And did you know that `Frisco is credited with being the first team to use the shotgun formation in pro football? These little tidbits and more await you in this celebration of one of the NFL's most successful franchises!<br />So, if you're a less-than-knowledgeable `Frisco aficionado, this book is just the primer you need to bone up on your 49er knowledge!<br />`Late	2001-10-19
US	52539649	R129KL2EURIREI	0671019953	164000426	Public Enemies: The Host of America's Most Wanted Targets the Nation's Most Notorious Criminals	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Yet another AMW book hits home!	Usually I'm a very jaded person; there are times when my indifference towards man's inhumanity to man knows no bounds. But when it comes to John Walsh's latest team-up (once again with Phil Lerman) tome about some of the most notorious true crime cases that AMW has ever profiled, I've come to realize that there's still some vestiges of humanity left within me. Perhaps I'm not too far gone after all! <br />Although the language and writing is a bit different and slightly toned down in some manners compared to previous AMW novels, the emotional impact it unleashed upon my psyche was just as powerful as those previous true-crime tomes. With the help of Lerman, Walsh brings forward his thoughts on the horrors perpetrated by some of the show's most ruthless criminals in such a way that I couldn't help but feel for the victims and their families. The main reason is W&amp;L's emphasis more on the lives and memories of the crime victims than the perpetrators, which is a rare occurrence in the true-crime section. The fear of not knowing what has happened to a loved one, the despair and heartbreak of a close friend or family member having been discovered murdered, the anger and sense of purpose towards the one(s) who did the deed, and the slight elation and sense of closure when the perpetrator is captured- all of these emotions were transferred to me to some degree as I read each heart-rending chapter. Although I didn't experience these emotions nearly to the degree that the victims did, I did gain a grain of empathy, and a better understanding about what it's like to be forever changed by the callous actions of evildoers.<br />Included in this AMW outing were eight cases, ranging from low- to high-profile. W&amp;L discuss such big-time media events as the attempts to extradite `Unicorn Killer' Ira Einhorn to the US from France. Walsh also goes into his confrontation with Einhorn on his way to an extradition hearing, and almost getting into fisticuffs with one of the accusedkiller's bodyguards. Other well-covered crimes include Rafael Resendez-Ramirez, the `Railroad Killer', and the Yosemite-area serial murderer Cary Stayner. And of course there's the obligatory `cold'-case-turned-hot: the capture of an SLA helper/sympathizer who was on the run for almost twenty years.<br />There's also the lesser-known cases, which often get buried under the more sensationalistic headlines of the day. The chapter involving child-killer Kyle Bell profiled one of the few fugitives AMW had to capture twice- once after the murder, and once after his escape following his murder conviction. Also recounted is the hunt for and capturing of a member of a street gang involved in a shootout with a rival gang at a housing project, resulting in the death of a seven-year-old girl.<br />Out of all of the cases depicted here, however, probably the most interesting- and incredible- is the story of a fugitive who was profiled on AMW, then captured on `Cops'. It's one of those amazing one-in-a-billion co-inky-dinks that prove the point that truth is indeed stranger than fiction! I'll not go into any further detail about it; you'll have to read it for yourself!<br />`Late	2001-09-20
US	52539649	R33WVRL4PWK26P	078510786X	100183737	Ultimate Spider-Man Vol. 1: Power and Responsibility	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Not quite the &quot;Ultimate&quot; I'd hoped it would be	After hearing &amp; reading about it for a few months, and being unable to find any single issues of it anywhere, I finally had the opportunity to check out the first major \\"Ultimate Spider-Man\\" story arc with the release of this TPB. A new take on the origin and first efforts of the Spider-Man, eh? Hmm. I figured I'd give it a shot. Besides, I was (&amp; still am) a big fan of writer Brian Michael Bendis' work on SAM AND TWITCH and POWERS, and expected more of the same excellence from him here.<br />Unfortunately, I was a bit disappointed by the results. It was decent reading, but nothing that I'd consider an all-time classic-in-the-making. I wasn't big on the setup to the origins of the Spidey/Green Goblin/Dr. Octopus feuds. Now they're sort of lumped together, rather than separate (This little twist isn't particularly original, either; an earlier Spidey-retooling attempt, John Byrne's \\"Chapter One\\", also did this with Parker &amp; Doc Ock). This little grouping also had an element of destiny that I didn't much care for. However, I rather enjoyed the part where the post-bitten Parker finally stands up for himself (at least a little bit) against `Flash' Thompson; it's about time!<br />Ultimately (doh!), this new Spider-Man tale suffers from the ol' Re-Make-Of-A-Classic-Movie syndrome: despite all the effort put into it- new plot twists, modernizing of characters, etc- it could never hope to match up to the original. I guess I'm still a bit of a chauvinist for Stan &amp; Steve's \\"Origin of Spidey\\" tale as told in Amazing Tales #15, and the first several issues of Amazing Spider-Man volume 1. Of course, my not being a big fan of the super-hero comics medium probably doesn't help matters any...<br />...but that didn't stop me from putting my two cents in, did it?<br />`Late	2001-08-12
US	52539649	R314IMGK58RFU5	0691000980	305334105	Murder at the Margin (A Henry Spearman Mystery)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A good economics primer	This book was required reading as part of my Microeconomics course. Although it's not quite on the level of Agatha Christie or Ellery Queen- the plot and story is relatively simple and easy to follow- it does show how one can see the basic laws of economics at work in just about every facet of day-to-day life. <br />Using opportunity cost, the laws of supply &amp; demand, interdependent utility functions, and even the prisoner's dilemma to get to the bottom of the case, Harvard economics professor Henry Spearman tracks down the killer/killers of two high-society tourists at the Cinnamon Bay resort on the Caribbean island of St. John.<br />Interestingly enough, the foreword &amp; afterword of the book both go into the economic possibilities of writing and publishing a mystery novel featuring an economist as the protagonist! Apparently, the possibilities looked good, since there's two follow-up Henry Spearman mystery novels out there, both of which I'm planning to take a look at once I get some free time in. Of course, I'll have to calculate the opportunity costs of other forms of recreation, the utility I receive from reading the other novels, etc. I have a feeling I'll receive a handsome profit out of the deal...<br />All told, &quot;Murder at the Margin&quot;, if not exactly a great murder mystery, is a fairly interesting primer on the practical uses of economics, and makes for surprisingly quick reading!<br />'Late	2001-08-03
US	52539649	R230K8DOV2J8CB	0786864133	62030752	Napalm & Silly Putty	Books	3	2	3	N	N	If we're gonna recycle, then let's get serious!	Much like its literary predecessor 'Brain Droppings', George Carlin's 'Napalm &amp; Silly Putty' is arranged in a haphazard fashion. You can pretty much open a spot anywhere in the book &amp; start reading. There's no chapters, and nothing that really links one page to the next. You can read the 'Interview with Jesus', skip over to the 'Seven Death Wishes' near the end, then head over to one of his numerous 'short takes' pages for a cool-down. I find this method of reading to be more fun than going from beginning to end, since you never know if the next random page you go to is something new or old. It makes the experience interesting! <br />Unfortunately, it's these attempts to find that something new in Carlin's latest printed offering that became something of a hassle for me. The proportion of original material to the almost-verbatim writing down of his standup acts leans significantly more towards the standup material here, unlike 'Brain Droppings'. Although a few bits were changed here &amp; there to better fit in with the times- like him wanting to watch 'Survivor' when he's clinically brain-dead rather than 'Geraldo', or putting executions on pay-per-view to save Social Security, rather than balance the budget- I'm more entertained by him actually performing these bits, complete with the voices, gestures, and facial expressions rather than me reading them. There's also more than a few pages taken from Carlin's very first book, the obscure 'Sometimes a Little Brain Damage Can Help'. Just a few of the recycled bits include 'The Miscellaneous Ailments Foundation', 'The 20th Century World Hostility Scoreboard', and 'Punk Bands I've Known'. <br />But despite the relative lack of original material compared to his previous tome, I did find more than a few pages to be highly entertaining. Many of his infamous &amp; mostly-new 'short takes' really hit the mark, especially the one about Hitler. I'll not reveal it here, but let me just say it'll definitely be somethingyou'll be keeping in the back of your mind the next time you're headed towards the polling booth during the next election. And his tips on how to sneak a smoke in a commercial airliner bathroom and not set off the smoke detectors is both entertaining and informative. <br />But in my opinion, he saved the best, 'Seven Death Wishes' for last. It's seven sure-fire ways to get yourself headed for the great hereafter without having to resort to 'suicide by cop'. All you need is the right social setting and the proper accoutrements, and you're good to go! <br />'Late	2001-06-09
US	52539649	R23PUX7ZX600F5	0785107835	223439464	The Punisher Vol. 1: Welcome Back, Frank	Books	4	7	8	N	N	SPACKER Dave!	I was somewhat enthused when I heard that Garth Ennis got the nod to write this new chapter in the life of my fave comic-book vigilante. I've enjoyed many of his previous works, and was hoping he'd do some great work on the revival of the Punisher. Fortunately, he didn't disappoint. Thanks in part to his scripts, he crafted an adventure that finally put Marvel's famed anti-hero back on top of the world of illustrated print. And if that wasn't enough, PREACHER &amp; HELLBLAZER cohort Steve Dillon's also in on the action with the rendering!<br />This rejuvenated Punisher isn't quite as &quot;Grim 'N Gritty&quot; as you'll remember from his late 80's to mid-90's glory days, but the dark humor and strange moments more than make up for the lack of angst. There's several unbelievably bizarre situations (two of Punisher's kills in this collection are among the May 2001 Wizard magazine's list of comics' most absurd deaths), several off-the-wall supporting characters (an Ennis trademark), and death &amp; destruction in spades. The violence is significantly toned down compared to PREACHER, HITMAN, or THE RIFLE BRIGADE. The really nasty stuff is implied more than actually shown- usually off-panel or in silhouette. I guess Marvel isn't quite ready to go &quot;all-out&quot; with this title like DC did with the recently-retired HITMAN. Oh well...<br />And of course, what would a Garth Ennis-penned epic be without the wacky supporting characters? Most of `em aren't quite as off-the-wall as Dogwelder or Arseface, but they're quite memorable none the less. There's the vigilante squad made up of Elite, a high society socialite; the low-rent-hero-of-the-downtrodden Mr. Payback; and the psycho ax-wielding Catholic priest The Holy. They get together and have aspirations of assisting New York's #1 vigilante anti-hero in his war on crime. The two police officers that make up the \\"Punisher Task Force\\" to track down our \\"hero\\" are the most pathetic and unfortunate examples of \\"New York's Finest\\".<br />Then there's  Frank's neighbors at the apartment complex where he's hiding out. The morbidly obese Mister Bumpo is involved in one of the funniest comic-book fatalities since the death of Allfather D'Aronique in PREACHER. Then there's Spacker Dave, the guy who seems to spend all his time hanging out at the entrance to the apartment complex. His face is covered in all sorts of studs &amp; rings from forehead to chin. Whenever Mr. Castle (under the pseudonym \\"Mister Smith\\") greets him with just \\"Dave\\", he calls out, \\"SPACKER Dave!\\" A close friend and myself actually annoyed a mutual buddy named Dave with the \\"SPACKER Dave!\\" war cry for several days in a row (yes, comic-book geeks really do this kinda stuff. Pretty pathetic, huh?). Needless to say, this real-life Dave doesn't hang with us much anymore...<br />But there are some truly dire &amp; serious moments as well. The best of these is Frank putting Daredevil in a situation where he has no way to stop him except by killing him. Check it out to see how it all unfolds!<br />I now leave you with a totally useless and time-wasting activity: look for Ennis's &amp; Dillon's tribute to \\"The Empire Strikes Back\\" somewhere in this collection. That should keep ya busy for several seconds...<br />'Late	2001-05-03
US	52539649	R3G2PNUGJ9E0FT	1582401764	106877029	Sam and Twitch, Book 1: Udaku	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Great story &amp; art marred by sub-par format	Ever since my first viewing of the Spawn HBO animated series, the seemingly mismatched NYPD partners Sam Burke and Max `Twitch' Williams have topped my list of favorite comic book characters. Naturally, when TMP/ Image released a `Sam And Twitch' ongoing comic book, I snapped up the first issue in a heartbeat, and enjoyed just about every panel of action and words. Brian Michael Bendis's writing and the eerily McFarlane-esque renderings of Angel Medina and Jonathan Glapion really gave the series' first story arc,  \\"Udaku\\", the look &amp; feel of a hard-boiled detective story with conspiracy intrigue reminiscent of the \\"X-Files\\" and a bit of \\"NYPD Blue\\"- style attitude. The pacing is unbelievably swift at times; although the TPB runs for about 180 pages, I find it to go by quickly. The dialogue that is depicted- the little halts and bits of stuttering here and there, the emphasis, inflection- is remarkable when \\"seen\\" by the minds' eye (heard by the minds' ear?). The captions aren't couched in word balloons, so you're able to see more of the art behind the words. <br />As this caper unfolds, the in-jokes and gags written and illustrated into this story become apparent. One scene in a pawn shop features a certain home-run ball \\"formerly\\" owned by a certain comic-book mogul. One of the chapters starts out at a Kiss (who have a monthly Image book ) concert.  In one scene, our heroes begin looking through mafia case files featuring the names of the books' three collaborators- Bendis,  Medina, and  Glapion-  on the subject tabs. Their names pop up again on a few newspaper headlines at a Grand Central Station newsstand during one of the books' climactic moments. Also on display at the stand are issues of the Kiss comic and `Jinx', one of Bendis's earliest comic book gigs. There's even a brief appearance by Spawn, in a scene that takes a jab at the gimmick of using guest-star super heroes in other super hero books. It's also a message to the reader that the S &amp; T comicseries is not another Spawn franchise book. This is the less-than-dynamic duos' show all the way, and don't you forget it!<br />But now you're probably wondering why I gave the TPB three stars when I enjoyed the story, art, and the silly sideline moments so much. The problem I have with this collection is in the presentation. The powers that be at Image/TMP (Todd McFarlane, `natch) decided to give this collection more of a Sam Spade `crime noir' movie look by reprinting it in greyscale black and white instead of its original full-color format. The many subtle shades and contrasts that were apparent in the single issues are now obscured in the black and white conversion, and a few of the more vital visual elements are harder to see or can't be perceived at all. And since McFarlane has stated that he stands by his decision to present the collected Udaku chapters in this manner despite fanboy complaints, it's doubtful a color Udaku TPB will ever be released.<br />Another problem: the binding is set a bit too deeply. I take a look at one of the many two-page splashes or other similar actions that take space right in the middle of the book, and a little bit of the art and captions are hidden in the deep binding. It's like an Al Jaffee MAD magazine fold-in gone horribly wrong. <br />And my last gripe, albeit a weird one, is a very small change of dialogue. One of Sam's lines in the original book has been `corrected' in the TPB. In the third issue, he says in one panel, \\"I had to take a squirt. Shot of Barbara\\". The \\"Shot of Barbara\\" line was actually a description of the panel from a rough draft of the issue's script that somehow got added into the character dialogue by accident. But even though it was a mistake, I felt that the line fit perfectly, and gave the scene the right tone. It was one of those one-in-a-billion moments where the error worked better, and should've been left alone instead of being corrected. Heavy sigh...<br />If you're looking to check out this amazing crime drama in full color without the art being obscured or dialogue changes, I recommend you grab up the original issues 1 through 8 instead of the TPB. And you better get `em quick! Thanks to his writing efforts on \\"Ultimate Spider-Man\\", \\"Powers\\", and other titles, Bendis is on the fast track to comic book stardom, and just about any earlier works of his are sure to be in high demand. And you fanboys out there know what happens to the value of suddenly-in-high-demand funnybooks...<br />`Late	2001-04-28
US	52539649	R1GHYPC6VUZ8G9	0871353512	312644485	Daredevil Punisher: Child's Play	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Good story; bad format &amp; presentation	Although this depicts DD's first showdown with the Punisher- the first of many classic clashes between these two- and was my first exposure to Frank Miller's comic writing &amp; illustrating abilities, this collection is (literally) flawed. Every single copy of this TPB I've ever looked at has a few pages that are out of sequence. There's also a missing moment that was likely removed because the backstory involved was not included in this collection.<br />Fortunately, all the issues reprinted in \\"Child's Play\\" have also been reprinted in the new \\"Daredevil Visionaries: Frank Miller\\" trade paperbacks. The color's better, the pages are in order, the missing panels are restored, and the backstory that caused the omission of these panels- AKA the \\"Death of Elektra\\" issue- is also included. Pick those up instead.<br />`Late!	2001-04-15
US	52539649	R1WK4QVUI5EOVR	1563897547	645229553	Star Trek the Next Generation: The Gorn Crisis	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Introducing the Gorn makeover	Having been a fan of Kevin Anderson's `Star Wars' comics and novels, I picked up `The Gorn Crisis' HC to see if he could work the same magic with the second incarnation of that other sci-fi/space opera legend that starts with `Star'. With a little help from co-author Rebecca Moesta , AKA Mrs. Anderson, he did a fairly good job, even though the finished product fell somewhat below my expectations. Don't get me wrong, I found it to be a pretty good yarn, but it wasn't quite as epic in scope as I'd hoped it would be.<br />The story is basically an explanation of why the Enterprise didn't seem to see any frontline action or even get much of a mention during the Dominion war that was showcased in the last two seasons of `Deep Space Nine'. Aside from the real-life problem of Paramount not wanting to face the impossibility of having the NextGen principals occasionally guest-star on DS9 during the Dominion War story arc and keep the show within budget, that is. Her mission is to look for allies to recruit in the fight against the Dominion, the Gorn being one of the top prospects. I'll go no further with the details of the story... you'll have to check it out on your own. But I will tell you that, aside from the Gorn, it features Klingons (none of whom are Worf), a few pitched ship-to-ship and hand-to-hand battles, a beheading or two, and a couple dismemberings here and there to keep it interesting.  You know, the good stuff.<br />Artist Igor Kordey's painted renderings of the ships are dead-on, and his efforts to get the likenesses of our Starfleet stalwarts were fairly on the mark. Especially Picard, who looks even more like a man of authority and leadership than he usually does in the NextGen series and films. Data and LaForge, however, look a bit more chubby-cheeked than usual. And I've got to give Mr. Kordey's vivid imagination high marks for depicting Riker all buffed and muscular. You'll see this blatantly flattering embellishment when our beloved- and shirtless- first officer is bat'leth training with a Klingon ship captain.<br />Kordey's designs and redesigns of the Gorn makes up the appendix of this adventure. He shows how he made significant changes to the Gorns so they'd look more reptilian and realistic. Of course, when the only resource you have to go on is the original series episode `Arena', featuring a seven-foot tall guy in a somewhat cheesy Godzilla-like getup, making them look more realistic in painted form should be a snap. But not only did Kordey tweak the look of the Gorn themselves, he also helped design (with Paramount's final approval of course) their architecture, governing body, cultural symbols, and a bit of their written language, all seen in his illustrations of the Gorn homeworld. These elements are explained in the appendix as well.<br />As I've stated earlier, even though I found this enjoyable to read, it's not quite the epic I was hoping it would be, and I don't think I would've paid what I did for it were I given a chance to take a sneak-peak at it before purchase. So if you plan on snagging a copy of this NextGen adventure, I recommend waiting until it comes out in the more affordable trade paperback format.<br />`Late	2001-01-12
US	52539649	R32EX7H6AX2Z0L	1929998058	235623976	The Adventures of Barry Ween: Boy Genius 2.0	Books	4	9	10	N	N	How the West was Weened...	Just like the first Barry Ween TPB, artist/writer Judd Winick's trademark cartoonish artwork, outlandish situations, and profane &amp; witty banter between characters makes for some great entertainment beyond the traditional Superhero and action titles. In this collection, the titular hero repairs the downed vessel of a stranded alien who's on the run from space mobsters, makes an accidental trip to the Wild West, and rescues his best friend Jeremy from a secret government facility that wants to use the boy genius to further their own ends. <br />I've found the humor to be similar to (though a bit more down-to-earth than) the sick animated series \\"South Park\\". If you're into the antics of those four lovable foulmouthed scamps from Colorado on the small screen, I'm pretty certain you'll also enjoy the adventures of a lovable foulmouthed ten-year-old genius and his somewhat naïve and horny classmate in illustrated print. And if you do enjoy this serving, don't hesitate to check out the first Barry Ween TPB as well! (=)<br />'Late	2001-01-11
US	52539649	R2Y54RSUM4H9LA	1569313164	749440945	Black Jack, Vol. 1	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not what I expected from the &quot;Manga Master&quot;...	Having seen a few episodes of \\"Astro Boy\\" and \\"Kimba The White Lion\\", I never considered the possibility that anime/manga legend Osamu Tezuka was capable of heavier fare. So needless to say I was thrown for a loop when I picked up and leafed through a copy of \\"Black Jack\\" volume 1. It's significantly more mature in theme and story than Tezuka's more notable works, and contains some fairly graphic depictions of surgery. But considering the fact that the books' title character, Black Jack, is the world's most skilled and naturally gifted surgeon, I should've at least semi-expected it.<br />The book contains eight one-shot stories, and have no linkage to each other. Probably the most significant chapter is the one that tells the origin of Black Jack's \\"daughter\\" Pinoco, since she makes appearances in a few subsequent stories. Another significant chapter is the \\"origin\\" of B.J. himself, which tells the story of what inspired him to become a healer, and introduced (and sadly, also bade farewell to) his mentor. But quite possibly the most unusual moment is our hero's reunion with a lost love-an interesting take on the popular manga &amp; anime formula of gender-switching. There's quite a few other offbeat moments inside this tome, which you'll have to read for yourself...<br />Quite a few of the secondary characters depicted in Tezuka's renderings are reminiscent of early Warner Brothers and Hanna-Barbera cartoon shorts, with a little bit of the \\"Speed Racer\\" look thrown in for good measure. For someone who's considered the originator of the modern anime and manga genre, I guess it was only natural that Tezuka had to draw his inspiration from somewhere. It's a rather unusual hybrid of mature storytelling and cartoonish artwork that I found to be a bit off-putting at first, but got used to as I kept reading. <br />The only tiny problem I have with this book is the dialogue. It's a bit clipped and relatively simple,likely due to the complexities involved in the  translationof the original Japanese text. When the characters \\"speak\\", they usually get right down to the point and waste few words. As a result, I found this volume to be a pretty quick read. Oh what to do...<br />`Late	2000-12-30
US	52539649	R3HQ2NLBUNXWKO	0671045830	273483212	Spock Vs Q Cd	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Logic versus omnipotence... and the winner is...	Ever since my initiation into the realm of Trekkie-dom, I've found Spock and Q to be among the most fascinating (doh!) characters to emerge from the Star Trek mythos. Even before this recording ever came out, I'd ofttimes wondered how these two individuals would match up in a battle of wits. But once I heard that two certain 'Trek actors started up an audio drama production company a few years back, I figured it was only logical (doh!) for them to eventually produce a little audio venture involving their Star Trek alter-egos. And sure enough...<br />Alien Voices Productions co-creators Leonard Nimoy and John DeLancie once again jump into the roles that have made them pop-culture legends, and have a go at the logic-versus-emotionalism debate in classic radio drama style, with the fate of humanity at stake. Spock has traveled back in time to warn his listeners (this production was recorded in front of a studio audience) about an impending asteroid collision, but Q makes efforts to prevent this intervention, going so far as using the Prime Directive of non-interference that Spock's Federation so reveres. Then there's the main event-Spock attempting to convince a seemingly indifferent Q to take action to prevent the catastrophe.<br />Although the two take many verbal pot shots at each other over the course of the hour-- with Spock using his dry Vulcan logic and Q with his smug sarcasm-- the many retorts and barbs exchanged are more lighthearted than mean-spirited. Despite their positions on the issues, both opponents seem to have a certain degree of respect and even affection for each other. And despite the desperate nature of the situation, the tone of this little standoff is more &quot;all in good fun&quot; than it is grim.<br />Although I felt that DeLancie's portrayal of Q was pretty much dead-on (though at times a bit too dramatic), I found some fault with Nimoy's Spock reprisal. He seemed a bit too emotional at times, and his moments of sarcasm were quite a bit more biting and a lot less reserved, especially when compared to his classic verbal bouts with Dr. McCoy. But despite Spock being somewhat out of character, I rather enjoyed this legendary war of wills. I found its many moments of lighthearted comedy and pitched battles of ideas to make for a very relaxing and thought-provoking hour. <br />`Late	2000-12-19
US	52539649	RVCNJQ34WMH5V	0671789309	785595530	Last American Heroes: Last American Heroes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great look at the duties of fire/rescue workers	Even before I read &quot;America's Last Heroes&quot;, I had a great deal  of respect for those who've made it their profession and duty to risk their  own lives and personal safety for the lives and safety of others. I place  them far above any pro athlete, actor, or politician on the heroism scale.  I don't envy their job, however... it's not the kind of career just anyone  can tackle.<br />The book covers a month in the life of a Miami Beach Fire  Dept. firehouse, during the Christmas holidays. Told within this novel are  the many strange, tragic, and disturbing trials that firefighters and  rescue workers face on a daily basis. There's the fire inspector's  assessment of an arson scene, complete with 'crispy critters'-the  firefighter term for human fatalities that burned in the blaze. There's the  aftermath of a bedroom blaze involving a teenager's sexual  experimentations. Also recounted is the disturbing scene where a rescue  team discovers an elderly couple literally rotting away and being eaten  alive- by maggots. These and many other moments are pretty good displays of  the sterner stuff that these folks are made of to handle such situations  with the utmost professionalism.<br />There's also the other side stories,  like the Miami Beach FD's first woman firefighter breaking into a  male-dominated domain, and learning to adjust and adapt, as well as earn  the respect of her comrades. Recalled is the firehouse 'groupie', who  unfortunately turns out not to be the trusted friend everybody thought he  was.<br />But there's more than just the bad moments and challenges-- there's  also the upside. The canned food drives for the homeless, the discovery of  a victim of smoke inhalation who wasn't quite as dead as everyone thought  he was, and other highlights help keep things in balance.<br />I know I'd  never take on this line of work... but I am glad to see that there are  those that do. And after reading &quot;America's Last Heroes&quot;, even if  I never haveto be saved from a fire or ruyshed to the hospital, these true  heroes will always have my respect and gratitude. Thanks guys.<br />'Late	2000-09-14
US	52539649	R2N9QEQF6PG5D3	1569712743	685000058	Black Pearl (Dark Horse Comics Collection)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not a bad first outing for 'The Son of Skywalker'	Although it wasn't the greatest comic book story I've read, it's  definitely a good first effort by co-writer Mark Hamill. A rather  interesting look at the potential of being a so-called superhero in the  real world. It's also a story about how certain situations and  circumstances can blow things way out of proportion, especially when the  news media's involved. This is exactly what happens to a man who's  basically a stalker turned superhero, and a notorious media celebrity  (allegedly made in the mold of entertainment/media sensationalists like  Jerry Springer &amp; Tom Green) takes advantage- and fans the flames- of  the craze that follows. <br />Originally a screenplay for a proposed film,  Hamill and co-writer Eric Johnson turned to the original superhero medium-  comics- to tell the tale. After reading this mini-series, I saw that a few  parts of it would've been better translated part of a movie. But as well,  there are several scenes that are pure comic book moments.<br />My only  problem with the trade paperback is that Dark Horse edited a few parts that  were in the original mini-series. All of the panels that originally  depicted exposed female mammaries have now been covered with brassieres and  halter tops. I guess I'll have to read 'The Black Pearl' for more wholesome  reasons now...<br />'Late!	2000-09-08
US	52539649	R15S11Z5AU0VRW	0375806709	595713080	Phantom Tollbooth	Books	5	282	294	N	N	The childhood favorite that's still with me	After my first reading of 'The Phantom Tollbooth', it became,and still remains, my favorite young reader book. I wrote two book reports on it for my middle school reading classes. I even received a copy of it as a tenth birthday present. Ever since, I've read it from cover to cover at least once a year.<br />As a child, I enjoyed reading the strange adventures of a bored Milo embarking on his legendary quest. As an adult, I enjoy the tome's play on words, such as the Whether man (&quot;It's more important to know whether there will be weather, rather than what the weather will be&quot;) and the Isle of Conclusions, a place you have to jump to to get there. I also love the book's personifying such abstract concepts as statistics, like the (literally) half a child that Milo meets who's the end result of the average family having 2.58 children. It also has neat takes on people's points of view, like the boy who grows down, rather than up. Needless to say, it's pretty apparent that even though I loved this book as a kid, I appreciate it much more as an adult.<br />If you remember reading this as a child, I strongly recommend you give it a look again. You'll likely pick up on quite a few things in the story that you might not have gotten the gist of in your youth!<br />'Late	2000-09-04
US	52539649	R1JIQWJN8OBQ5Y	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Are you free, Mister Humphries?	Although Monty Python's Flying Circus is still the most celebrated British comedy TV series to hit the states, I've yet to see any other BBC show  match `Are You Being Served?' as the funniest. The `Inside Story' companion  book is a helpful guide for American fans of this landmark BBC  sitcom.<br />`AYBS?' has many of the distinctions that make it a notable TV  show. It boasts both a black-and-white episode (the pilot) and a `lost'  episode. It's been made into a feature film and a stage play. There's a  spinoff series, `Are You Being Served? Again', known as `Grace and Favour'  in the UK. An Australian version of the series was produced, as well as a  pilot for an American rendition that never saw release. These little  factoids and many other things are in the book for the fan's reference.  <br />Also given are very brief synopses of the episodes, as well as mini-bios  of the show's main characters and the actors who portray them. There's Mrs.  Slocombe's (Molly Sugden) discussions about her... pet cat, Capt. Peacock's  (Frank Thornton) marital woes, the biting wit of Mr. Lucas (Trevor  Bannister), and other details. Then there's John Inman and his effeminate  and flamboyant portrayal of Mr. Humphries, the quintessential &quot;campy  over-the-top allegedly gay&quot; character. A good portion of Inman's bio  talks about the controversy regarding Humphries's implied homosexuality. As  for Mr. Humphries himself, he has stated many times on the show that he's  &quot;neither one way nor the other&quot;...<br />Another neat addition is the  glossary of British terms- the slang and vernacular commonly heard on the  show. It's good to have when you're watching the show on the west end of  the pond and you're not quite sure what a &quot;till&quot;, an  &quot;electric fire&quot;, or &quot;sacking&quot; is. Unfortunately, not  all of the various terms heard on the show are defined. I'm still trying to  figure out what an &quot;argybargy&quot; (I think that's how it's spelled)  is. And just what is a &quot;bloody palaver&quot; (spelling again) anyway?  Can anybody help me out on these ones?<br />'Late!	2000-08-21
US	52539649	R1YGRDF60SSUG4	0785100490	217782362	Marvels	Books	5	25	29	N	N	The Marvel universe as seen by the average Joe	MARVELS is a neat chronicle of watershed events in the Marvel universe  that occur over a period of about fifty years. It's also seen from the  perspective of the average, non-superpowered 'man on the street'. It all  unfolds from the view of a newspaper photographer, as he witnesses the  legendary battle between Namor the Sub-Mariner and the original Human  Torch, the rise of the X-Men &amp; their battle for equality, the death of  Gwen Stacey, the aftermath of the X-Men's first battle with the Hellfire  Club, and many more turning points in the Marvel world's history, all from  an almost-safe distance.<br /> Alex Ross's photorealistic painted artwork,  rather than the pencil-ink-color process that is the norm, gives the book a  'real world' look. It's how the Marvel universe would look like were it  shown 'live-action'. MARVELS marks Ross's big break into the comics scene,  eventually making him one of the most in-demand talents in the medium  today. This book was my first exposure to Ross' efforts, and I've been a  big fan of his art ever since.<br />But there's also Kurt Busiek's story,  which shows the man's reactions to the events as an outsider looking in.  His story artistry gives you a glimpse, if you were able to, of how you'd  experience the world of superheroes.<br />'Late!	2000-08-14
US	52539649	R35S6F58WZ22YI	0931064651	327652792	Starlog Photo Guidebook Special Effects No 4	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A glimpse into the Golden Age of Special Effects!	I've always been a big fan of physical visual effects, where actual models  of ships and settings are built from scratch and are used to make movie  magic. But, thanks to the progress of modern computer imagery, physical  models are gradually being replaced by CGI representations. And yet, even  though CGI has come a long way, and looks reasonably realistic to me, I  feel that it's not yet quite at the level of sophistication where it looks  as convincingly realistic as physical models.<br />Special Effects Volume 4,  like it's three predecessors, covers various moments of visual and special  FX from various sci-fi and fantasy films released in the late seventies and  early eighties. There's quite a few brief but to-the-point coverage  concerning those models I love so much, such as the Enterprise-Reliant  battle from &quot;The Wrath of Khan&quot; and the 'bike through the moon'  sequence in &quot;E.T.&quot;. Also touched on is the puppetry magic of  &quot;Dark Crystal&quot; and &quot;Dragonslayer&quot;, the melting &amp;  exploding heads of &quot;Raiders of the Lost Ark&quot;, and the topsy-turvy  terror of &quot;Poltergeist&quot;.<br />Not only does this book cover the  then-cutting-edge world of model and physical effects, it also goes into  the CGI construction and action of the vehicles and backgrounds of  &quot;Tron&quot;, the first movie to extensively use CGI effects. Also  covered in brief is the 'Genesis Effect' sequence seen in &quot;Wrath of  Khan&quot;. The articles also discuss the future potential of computer  magic which is widely used today in FX flicks. Ironically, it's these two  parts that I enjoy reading the most.<br />If you're fortunate enough to find  this volume, I also highly recommend you track down the other ones as well.  Happy hunting!<br />'Late!	2000-08-11
US	52539649	R2NLWVESBN1JH8	0894712713	890698499	Sometimes a Little Brain Damage Can Help	Books	3	11	11	N	N	George's first book- a minimalist dream	I remember my parents getting this book as a Christmas gift when I was ten. Even at that age, I was already a casual fan of Carlin's standup performances, and was curious about what was contained within this thin  (about 60 pages long) coffee-table size paperback. But, being at that  impressionable young age, the folks made every effort to hide the book from  my eyes. Luckily for me, without much success.<br />As I matured, I found the  book to be somewhat interesting and insightful, if not overtly funny.  Extensively illustrated with a fair amount of text, Carlin's first literary  effort is a minimalist's dream. My favorite parts are the two bits,  &quot;Tumors and Sports&quot; and &quot;Tumors and Food&quot;. Both poke  fun at peoples' tendencies to compare the sizes of tumors to sports balls  (&quot;It was the size of a volleyball&quot;), and different citrus fruits  (&quot;It grew from the size of a tangelo to a small grapefruit in a matter  of days!&quot;). Another weird, to say nothing of sacrilegious, moment, is  Joseph and the pregnant virgin Mary wondering what they should name their  child.<br />A little bit of the material contained within the covers of  &quot;Sometimes A Little Brain Damage Can Help&quot; was reprised in  Carlin's second tome, &quot;Brain Droppings&quot;. His strange little  random thoughts known as &quot;Short Takes&quot;, as well as &quot;George's  Book Club&quot;, &quot;People I Can Do Without&quot;, and &quot;Things You  Never See&quot;, have been re-hashed and even expanded on in his second  book.<br />The chapter that warped me the most is The Incomplete List of  Impolite Words, featuring hundreds of dirty and suggestive words &amp;  phrases. I managed to memorize most of them, and still to this day use them  at opportune moments...<br />'Late	2000-06-01
US	52539649	RUQRT01WKTD0P	068485533X	931610335	Jackie "The Joke Man" Martling's Disgustingly Dirty Joke Book	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Same ol' same ol'	Well, all I can say is Jackie's not really covering any new ground with his tome of filthy humor. I've heard just about every joke in this book from the 'Toke' Man's various CD releases and his monthly Joke Page in  Penthouse magazine. And even then, I've seen many of the bits within  published in other dirty joke books from decades past.<br />Actually, there is  a certain advantage to reading the yuks rather than listening to Jackie  tell them: I can read them at my own pace. On his CDs Jackie doles 'em out  at a rapid-fire pace, and sometimes he'll break into laughter just trying  to tell the whole story. At least with the book, I don't have to deal with  these annoying characteristics. <br />Another good thing is, I don't have to  listen to any of his songs either...<br />'Late	2000-05-29
