US	52536648	R23LCJ1EZ7S0V8	0764569597	978711017	The Art of Intrusion: The Real Stories Behind the Exploits of Hackers, Intruders and Deceivers	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Interesting Glimps into the Shadow of Computer Security	Few people in the world of computer attacking and defense are surrounded by so many stories and mystique as is Kevin Mitnick. His first book \\"The Art of Deception\\" gave eye opening warnings of security penetration through social engineering, one of Mitnick's specialties. Because he cannot write about his own hacking exploits, he has gathered stories of other attackers and their exploits.  Of course, as the author admits, it's almost impossible to verify the truth of these stories, since they are all involving people who are either hidden, or involve incidents difficult to corroborate.  Still, even if many of the stories are fiction or heavily fictionalized, there are lessons to be drawn in terms of security from each. Some of the stories are stronger than others (geeks exploiting technology to cheat casinos is the stuff of movies, stories of terrorists attempting to manipulate teenagers seem less strong and more of an attempt to give the stories contemporary urgency). After each story, Mitnick does some analysis and gives his thoughts on ways to counter these kinds of attacks. Some of these countermeasures should be obvious, but the fact that these stories take place, shows that they are far from obvious. Sometimes Mitnick hammers on the same countermeasures again and again which, while probably true, sometimes make the breadth of the stories seem less broad.<br /><br />The information contained in the book still carries value, and is an accessible way to introduce people to the necessity of caution and security in all aspects of modern life. The caution is needed for everyone, from the consumer listening to almost daily loss of personal information to the manager charged with securing the company physically and technologically. At worst, you will walk away from this book hopefully thinking a bit more about security, if not starting to feel paranoid. And as technology works its way into every aspect of our lives, caution is needed now more than ever, which is where Mitnick delivers the goods in cautionary tales.ere Mitnick delivers the goods in cautionary tales.	2005-06-19
US	52536648	RRK1ZYML2A0DO	0312320906	411720218	Honeymoon with My Brother: A Memoir	Books	3	1	11	N	Y	Two books in one - both good, not great	Honeymoon With My Brother is a story of emotion and self discovery, wrapped up in a travel book.  The problem is that as each kind of story, the book is good, but it never really finds it's voice.  As shown by the difference of views from reviewers, it's a book that either connects with you, or does not. The story of Franz's fall, from the sudden pull-out of his bride just before the wedding, to the sudden downgrading of his career, sets the stage for his eventual rediscovery of his brother and ultimately himself. In that, his story was saddening, and really gives you an insight into his emotions and mindset. He and his brother team up to go exploring the world and begin rambling the continents at ages in the late thirties/early forties which is a fresh change from so many first person world exploration books by younger ramblers.<br /><br />Through the journeys, Franz comes to rediscover his relationship with his brother, and come to grip with the changes in his life. Much of this rediscovery, while probably true to life, is not always interesting.  How many ways can one really find interesting questioning yourself asking if your brother can be your best friend? The discoveries come slowly, with no real catharcic moment, and the self discovery part of the story verges at places on the self-pitying whine. But still, in the end it is interesting to see how one man copes with what is generally considered two of the most stressful events that someone can experience, in this case almost back-to-back.<br /><br />As a travel book, the story falls very short. Each continent is mapped out for us with the route taken.  But it's like reading the cliff notes version of a travel book. Some stories come up here and there, but overall you know that there is a lot of material that is not there. Travel as therapy helps move the self-healing story, but we are given tantalizing and too short glimpses into the world seen by the brothers. The stories there are about travel adventures are obviously significant to Wisner and some are generally heartfelt and heartwarming, such as the adventures traveling by bus in Africa. But months of experience and whole continents are condensed into 40 to 50 pages. And at the end, it's they have ultimately moved from discovery travel to traveling as reviewers - moving from staying in hostels and traveling cheap, to staying in high class resorts to write about them. This change is somewhat disappointing.<br /><br />As a book, Wisner is a fine writer.  But it is in his \\"dispatches\\" - his letters to his grandmother and his writing for some California newspapers where his prose truly shines.  I would love to see a collection of these pieces of writing, for they show the traveler and writer with a keen eye to the world, and the experiences that lie therein. While the book does not live up to its potential, there are gems to be found that make it worth reading.res are obviously significant to Wisner and some are generally heartfelt and heartwarming, such as the adventures traveling by bus in Africa. But months of experience and whole continents are condensed into 40 to 50 pages. And at the end, it's they have ultimately moved from discovery travel to traveling as reviewers - moving from staying in hostels and traveling cheap, to staying in high class resorts to write about them. This change is somewhat disappointing.  <br /> <br />As a book, Wisner is a fine writer.  But it is in his \\"dispatches\\" - his letters to his grandmother and his writing for some California newspapers where his prose truly shines.  I would love to see a collection of these pieces of writing, for they show the traveler and writer with a keen eye to the world, and the experiences that lie therein. While the book does not live up to its potential, there are gems to be found that make it worth reading.	2005-06-19
US	52536648	R39S07RZ6QKVPU	0812695836	319482464	Star Wars and Philosophy: More Powerful than You Can Possibly Imagine (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	5	67	71	N	Y	Thinking about the Force	The Popular Culture and Philosophy Series can be hit or miss as it tries to wrap in familiar characters or stories in the teaching of philosophers throughout the ages. This volume stands as one of the best produced so far. The Star Wars films have always held some deeper meanings than what appear on the surface, from the concepts of good and bad, light and dark, interconnectedness in the Force, and downfall and redemption.  Decker and his fellow authors mine this rich source and bring up many topics or ideas that will make the reader go \\"Hmmm.\\" Definitely riding on the wave of growing Star Wars mania, this book contains numerous references to the upcoming Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith film and the dark story that lies in the fall of Anakin. Being that this is a series with it's own resident philosopher in the wise Yoda, the writers have been able to spread out and discussion actions and thoughts of other characters in the Star Wars universe. Surprisingly, and somewhat disappointingly, they mine many of the same characters over again, so that while Anakin and the Emperor are well represented, of course, as are Yoda, Luke and Obi-Wan, characters such as Leia, Padame and Chewbacca get the short shrift. Maybe something for volume 2 perhaps? This is a great book for sitting back and letting you experience the saga at a whole different level. And if you are not as familiar with philosophy, this is a great introduction, relating a deeper subject to something so familiar and beloved. May the Force Be With You.	2005-04-12
US	52536648	R3J63RSBSFLQM8	0596006853	759533311	Securing Windows Server 2003: Hands-On Advice for Securing and Implementing Windows Server 2003	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	A good focused work on security	In so much of the writing on computer security, Windows is given the short sell in favor of Unix security, so it is nice to find a good book that focuses on Windows, in this case with the latest server operating system. With 1000 page books written about Windows Server 2003, the system administrator can be quickly overwhelmed by all the new and enhanced features.  Danseglio cuts through this jungle and focuses on specific issues and implementation of security with the OS.  Time is spent explaining various concepts and how they are implemented in Windows 2003, often with step-by-step instructions showing where and how to find, set and tweak these settings.  There is some expectation of familiarity with Windows Server, but not necessarily an expert knowledge of how the system works.  You will not find all that you need to know about Active Directory, but you will find how to use it, and services such as the Group Policy templates to close security holes often overlooked and improve operations. Windows is notorious for its insecurity, and while Windows 2003 represents a quantum tightening of these holes (services such as Internet Information Server, are not installed by default) allowing you to prepare more thoroughly for using a service and cutting down potential attack vectors for users inside as well as outside your network.  This is not the canonical security book for Windows 2003, but it does serve as a great introduction and reference book for administrators looking to install and run this OS.  While the book was written long before Service Pack 1, the lessons presented here are still very useful.	2005-04-12
US	52536648	RUJVF0S6B44NH	0060590254	180578126	The Stupidest Angel: A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the funniest books I've read in a long time	Christopher Moore has proven himself time and again to be one of the funniest fiction writers we have today, and it is a shame that he does not have as wide an exposure as he should.<br /><br />Dave Barry writes by taking the annoyances of life and spins them into absurd proportions. Christopher Moore does the same thing with basic fiction elements.  In this case a simple murder spins wildly out of control in a story of love, lust, pot, Santa, heavenly hosts, Christmas miracles and a good dose of Halloween staples - the undead, and of course a talking bat.  What is even better is that he does this while spinning the story around many characters we have met before in previous books. In some author's hands this kind of thing can be heavy handed and contrived, but Moore deftly works everyone in, so everyone plays a part and their appearances seem if not logical, at least acceptable. Moore turns in a heartwarming tale of the Holidays with murder and mayhem to boot. I have not laughed out loud reading a book in a long time as I have reading the Stupidest Angel, and I am using this book to introduce Moore to many of my friends. His wit is in full force and you can see him spinning the story with a twinkle in his eye.  Despite being a Christmas tale, this truly is a book for all seasons.	2005-02-27
US	52536648	R1LVUVFC6SZPYT	0596005458	412770136	Security Warrior: Know Your Enemy	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	To know the enemy	Security Warrior comes with the subject \\"Know Your Enemy\\" written across the top of the cover.  In those three words, Peikari and Chuvakin give you the reason to read the book.  O'Reilly's books are usually of the highest caliber, and happy to say this is shown in Security Warrior. The book is aimed at the security administrator, or the hard core computer person.  While much of the book, and of security writing in general, is directed at UNIX systems there is a decent coverage of the Windows environment, which given its track record is in much more need of security warriors.<br /><br />What the authors do is to give you the why and how of attacks and various threats, showing you some of the tools that can be used in these actions against you. The reader can then take these tools and turn them against the attackers, finding vulnerabilities first, and using other tools to counteract attacks and minimize damage. The first part looks at attacks at software, showing how reverse engineering can find out a lot more than might be planned as to how the program works. Things can get rather technical here but it's a great introduction to the mechanics of reverse engineering software and shows how someone could go looking for vulnerabilities, and finding out maybe not all the hows of the program, at least potential entry points in the software's operation.<br /><br />Then it is on to OS and network security, with the focus on UNIX and some Windows Systems.  The authors give some practical examples to explain what goes into attacks you commonly hear about - SQL Injection and Overflow attacks - but may not have seen demonstrated with examples. Many of the chapters and sections that are written about could and do fill whole books, but the authors do a very good job of balancing going beyond the surface of the topic without going too deeply down the technical details and examples to overwhelm or bore the reader.  This is not a light, breeze through book, but a technical reference guide. It's one that I can see returning to again and again to help brush up understanding of certain topics as they are needed. This book is a very good starting point for overviewing the ideas as well as the mechanics of security attacks and to help you learn how to repulse them and become the security warrior.  Know thy enemy is the necessity of the modern world.ence guide. It's one that I can see returning to again and again to help brush up understanding of certain topics as they are needed. This book is a very good starting point for overviewing the ideas as well as the mechanics of security attacks and to help you learn how to repulse them and become the security warrior.  Know thy enemy is the necessity of the modern world.	2005-02-27
US	52536648	R3TCHVJIIHPXBH	0670894737	141542110	The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Nature can be our enemy	Coming on a year when the shortage of flu vaccine caused long lines and panic for protection, Barry brings us the story of man versus nature in response to our deadliest viral outbreak of the modern era. If Barry's research teaches us anything, it is that we are, at best, trying to vaccinate against what might be, while nature has at her disposal all the variations of influenza that can be, and can rapidly mutate with speed to render our best guesses moot. Several books have been written about the great influenza pandemic but what sets Barry's off is the scope he chooses to study. For he not only looks at the pandemic itself, he places the pandemic in societal and historical perspective. He shows how quickly medicine had moved in the 19th century from almost unregulated quackery to a field based in science and certification, producing medical doctors who actually can treat patients and make them better, rather than just making a guess and bleed them for good measure.  And the pandemic is placed in the context of World War I, where travel was increased, information was carefully censored, and people were thrust together in close quarters, providing excellent tinder for an epidemic. As we speak more about potential biological warfare in the 21st century, you can see that in many ways, we are no more prepared than those early 20th century doctors. Barry gives us some hope as he notes the vigorous response to potential outbreaks of flu in recent decades that have helped cut the spread of deadly strains.  But as the author states \\"Nothing could have stopped the sweep of influenza through either the United States of the rest of the world - but ruthless intervention and quarantines might have interrupted its progress and created occasional firebreaks.\\"<br /><br />The scary part of the story is that it could very well happen again today. In fact, we seem to have come close more than once, but been lucky enough to catch it as it just begins, isolating the disease so that it burns itself out for lack of hosts. And this is where Barry's work has some of the most impact - it is not just a history but also a warning.<br /><br />If I had one complaint of the book it is the sweep of characters involved.  We meet many people, especially in the medical field, who have vital parts leading up to the pandemic, and many of these people are then replaced by others in the actual fighting and aftermath of the pandemic.  Sometimes it was difficult to keep track of where people fit in. People who gave Cassandra like warnings ahead of the plague are not heard from after it hits. A simple cast of characters list would have been helpful. But this is a very minor concern, and one that may not impact many other readers.  Considering the scope and sweep of the book, Barry does an admirable job keeping the range of characters fairly tight. One can only hope that Barry and his writing may have more impact than those who stood warning the world in 1918.t burns itself out for lack of hosts. And this is where Barry's work has some of the most impact - it is not just a history but also a warning.   <br /> <br />If I had one complaint of the book it is the sweep of characters involved.  We meet many people, especially in the medical field, who have vital parts leading up to the pandemic, and many of these people are then replaced by others in the actual fighting and aftermath of the pandemic.  Sometimes it was difficult to keep track of where people fit in. People who gave Cassandra like warnings ahead of the plague are not heard from after it hits. A simple cast of characters list would have been helpful. But this is a very minor concern, and one that may not impact many other readers.  Considering the scope and sweep of the book, Barry does an admirable job keeping the range of characters fairly tight. One can only hope that Barry and his writing may have more impact than those who stood warning the world in 1918.	2005-02-27
US	52536648	R1WYZ7CPKGHGW1	0758206933	539210610	Kyle's Bed & Breakfast	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Hilarious Slice of Gay Life	Greg Fox's \\"Kyle's Bed and Breakfast\\" is one of the best comics in the gay press today, and here he collects the first few years of his strip detailing the interactions and adventures of a collection of residents of a Long Island bed and breakfast. Using a multiple panel format familiar to Sunday comics readers, Fox breaks apart stereotypes as he chronicles the lives of characters with very divergent personalities. Because the strip appears every other week, each strip stands alone but can arc through a single storyline in several episodes. It is nice to have this collection and to be able to sit down to discover how his characters became fleshed out over the past few years. The strips may not be ground breaking but they are wildly entertaining, giving you people you may find yourself caring about. A comfortable place to relax and enjoy gay America.	2004-12-15
US	52536648	R2E5B1VNQHJ2V6	0609607081	30726731	Rammer Jammer Yellow Hammer: A Journey into the Heart of Fan Mania	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Life on and off the tailgating road	What makes rational (or seemingly rational) people to put part of one life on hold during the fall to follow another life on the road RVing across the south following \\"their\\" football team? I don't know if you will come away from St. John's book knowing the answer, but you'll have a great trip along the way. There are sports fans in the world, and there are college football fans, but the southern college fan is a breed all unto itself. Life in the fall takes on a new dimension following teams to their weekly Saturday matches. The author's journey begins with the story of a couple who missed their own daughter's wedding because it conflicted with an Alabama Football game (they made the reception). And with that story the door is opened to  world of colorful characters, each expressing his or her devotion to 'Bama football in their own way, but while each story is unique, they all make up the sea of red to be seen in Bryant-Denny Stadium on those glorious Saturdays. The book is an enjoyable armchair ride in the tradition of the best travel writing of Bryson and others. It looks at how deep the legacy of Paul \\"Bear\\" Bryant runs to this day, over two decades since he coached his last Alabama football game. The book is a portal into a world most of us see at a distance at best. Roll Tide!	2004-12-15
US	52536648	RWX8LVARANV5A	0892047143	471851967	Roadside Baseball : Uncovering hidden treasures from our national pastime	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Visiting the shrines of Baseball	For many, baseball is almost akin to a religion in America. Many undertake the pilgrimage to all the Major League ballparks, but Epting has created the ultimate cultural tour of history that goes far beyond these parks. Sure, anyone can go to see where Babe Ruth hit his final home run, but would we know where to go to see where he hit his first (or as Epting makes the distinction, where he hit his first professional home run, and where he hit his first professional home run in a regular season game)?  No event escapes Epting for potential inclusion in this journey into our heritage.  Each site is identified with an address, often a photo and an explanation of why it is important to note. But also, Epting's book can serve as a warning to us. So many of the important sites from the early years of baseball have been lost; they have become the victims of &quot;progress.&quot;  He takes the time to try and show us where historic fields are, but too often they are fully tossed aside, with an apartment building, or a parking lot now occupying the spaces where the pioneers played and set our early records. For each ballpark that has been lovingly restored or kept in good condition, there are two that have become lost to the wrecking ball.  This is one of the ways that Epting's book should open up our eyes to prevent further loss of our sports history in the name of progress.  Someone like Epting helps make sure that we never forget, even if others have.  Put this in your glove box, and find a bit of our national pastime history across the country.	2004-07-11
US	52536648	R36SDL51YOYVDA	1891661396	225048754	Marilyn Monroe Dyed Here: More Locations of America's Pop Culture Landmarks	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Fun look for history off the beaten path	Epting showed us where to find those places read about or seen in the movies, or on TV with his first boo &quot;James Dean Died Here.&quot; In &quot;Marilyn Monroe Dyed Here&quot; he's back for another round of our cultural history, the book is not as rich as his first one. Sometimes it feels as if he's being forced to scrape the barrel a bit more for his landmarks. There are still a lot of fascinating places to be found and visited, but his first book used most of his 1st string material, so here he is often forced to revisit movies and events, and find the *other* places that might not be so important or known. As others have said, one would like to have more pictures, but a number of the places visited this time can't have pictures - the site is gone, or are a bit more generic. Would the listing for the hospital where the first test tube twins were born be a better listing if there was a picture of the building? I think not.<br />That said, the book is still a great trip along memory lane.  Finding places where the famous and infamous met their end (there's a great section on the end of many of the gangsters we have heard about) or the building we saw in the movies, or every week on TV. Epting also is very good at noting what places are private, helping to try and prevent the curious trespassing. For those with a literary leaning, many of our famous authors are put in the locations where they produced their masterpieces.  It's the kind of book you toss into the car for a road trip, or leave out on the coffee table for a conversation starter.  The two volumes make an indispensable set for any fan of popular culture and the offbeat.	2004-07-05
US	52536648	R2GFS0YGJCLB2B	0801436478	987656697	Red, White, and Blue Letter Days: An American Calendar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	America through our holidays	There are many American histories out there, but in this one, the author Dennis traces our history through our holidays. Looking at our national holidays chronologically as they were adopted, he shows how these holidays developed and changed over time, as they were called into play for various civic and political reasons.  A good example of this is Columbus Day, where he traces the legacy of Christopher Columbus as an icon and a demon for different groups including Catholics, immigrants and later the American Indian movement. All the while the invocation of Columbus' name could be seen in such events as the founding of the Knights of Columbus and other Columbian groups. Other holidays produce similar tracing of our national history, such as a brief look at the labor movement for Labor Day, the politics of reconciliation after the Civil War with Memorial Day and the politics of iconography with President's Day celebrating Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays. The writing at times can get dry, but the reader gains new insights into our history and will not view a day off quite the same again.	2004-07-05
US	52536648	RLFADN5QOSQTC	0140154035	21202647	The Eyes on the Prize Civil Rights Reader: Documents, Speeches, and Firsthand Accounts from the Black Freedom Struggle	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	First Hand Documents Bring You There	When you get involved in studying political events and movements, ultimately there is going to be some disagreement on interpretations.  While the Civil Righs Movement has suffered less revisionist history than many events of the last century, it is still valuable to go to the source documents and read about events in the words of those who participated in history or who made history. I agree that this book works well in tandem with another more narrative history, such as Eyes on the Prize, or Partin the Waters.  But the compilers have done an excellent job of grouping by topics, with clear introductions putting the pieces that follow into proper place.  I was surprised - I feared that this would be more dry of a read than it was. Instead I found myself pulled along, especially by some riveting first hand accounts of events such as the Attica riots. Another big plus for the book is that it brings the documents and the struggles into the 1980's, when first published.  Many books ont he Civil Rights Movement cover until 1965, or 1968, this one keeps events in the 1970's and 80's relevant to what came before. I highly recommend this for anyone who is looking to feel as if they were there for these struggles, and understand our history.	2004-06-30
US	52536648	RZAZT9V958VUF	0375822488	811093084	The Seuss, the Whole Seuss and Nothing But the Seuss: A Visual Biography of Theodor Seuss Geisel	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Yes I Love It, Sam-I-Am!	As we celebrate the centennial of Ted Geisel's birth, material is appearing that looks at the influence of Dr. Seuss on generations of American readers.  Dr. Cohen brings us what is obviously a labor of love. Drawing inspiration on his extensive collection of Seussiana, he has produced one of the most lavishly illustrated and broadly scoped book on the life and works of the good doctor.<br />Cohen reaches back to Geisel's school days and illustrates the development of the artist's style and humor. Continually he will point out how pieces done at various points in Geisel's life can be traced as part of the development of what would become some of his trademark images and beloved characters, including the Grinch. Instead of focusing heavily on Seuss's books, he draws attention to the vast collection of other artwork that was drawn, mostly before the books even came into being. Seuss's work as a humorist, advertising artist, sculptor, and cartoonist (political and otherwise) are shown here as he continued to improve and hone his craft. The end results are the books that are so beloved to multitudes of people who were lucky enough to grow up with Seuss in the house.<br />The book would be worth it for the pictures alone, but the accompanying text helps get below the surface of many of the pieces, and to tie them together into a artist's whole output. Even if you only look at the pictures and read the captions to the pictures, you will get a whole new appreciation of Dr. Seuss's work over the years. If I any complaint, it is that in some ways the books almost get shorted too much in this narrative, and too often the captions for the illustrations are repetitive to the text.  But these are minor quibbles that in no way detract from the glorious whole.<br />For the Seuss lover, and for the casual reader, this book brings the reader a whole new appreciation of a beloved illustrator's work and the genius that was Dr. Seuss.	2004-05-29
US	52536648	R1T3X4I30TMX59	0700612890	477659670	Brown v. Board of Education: Caste, Culture, and the Constitution (Landmark Law Cases and American Society)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Putting a landmark case in context	This book looks at the case of Brown vs. Board of Education that outlawed segregation in schools 50 years ago this month. The actual case only takes up several chapters in the middle of the book. What is important is that the book tries to put the case in terms of legal, and societal, context. Chapters leading up speak about the legal challenges to segregation that appeared in the 50 prior years since Plessy v. Ferguson enshrined the doctrine of &quot;separate but equal&quot; in our nation's laws. Because law is built upon precedence, these cases mark the stones on which the group of cases, eventually to be grouped under Brown, would stand. The authors take us inside the Supreme Court and helps analyze the decision making process, and examine the subsequent practices and pitfalls of the implementation of that decision. It is a case that even a half century later the repercussions are still felt in America.<br />This is not a scintillating read. The focus is on the law and the legal actions leading up to and after the decision. But it is an excellent book to put this event into legal context.	2004-05-02
US	52536648	R2JWWIX80IYO9E	0767914309	333747681	Our Fathers: The Secret Life of the Catholic Church in an Age of Scandal	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Thought provoking and behind the headlines	David France has done an interesting job of bringing together many threads in a very complex story. He starts well back with the seminary days of some of the figures that will come to be players in this story.  Much of what he does is to place this story in context - in context of the church during this period, and of society in general. Was the non-celibacy of priests a problem that came to light in the past decade an aberration? Was it a product of the sexual revolution? Was it a reflection of society in general? Or was it an exposed side of a more deeply rooted problem? France leans towards the latter, but gives each of these ideas some thought.<br />Upon first glance, one would assume it is about the recent priest child molestation cases. But the author moves beyond this, to note a range of sexuality related problems, not only with the child molester, but also with the priest engaged in illicit sexual affairs, and the self identified gay priests. I give France high kudos for his work sifting through thousands and thousands of pages of legal records and history to distill the important points into his narrative. The book is anything but dry. While not light reading, it is captivating and introduces you to a whole spectrum of players in this drama.<br />No, the book is not positive. In fact very few from within the church leadership come across in much positive light, though there are some. Rather the positive light is shone upon the laity, trying to take back the church and correct the wrongs that have been perpetrated.  It's the David and Goliath story of people moved to bring change facing an entrenched bureaucracy, and one that for many is unassailable. A bureaucracy that could and would not see a pattern until too late, and then would be too tied up in the problem to face the issue. French has done a very good job trying to show all the sides in these issues, and try to find where the motivation for their reactions come from. While he is sympathetic to the victims, he does not blindly anoint them with right. Rather he does entertain the possibility of some mistaken \\"memories\\" that came about from supposed 'repressed memory' therapy. No one in this story is above reproach.<br />As a lapsed Catholic, the most common reaction I had as I read this was sadness.  Sadness for what had happened, and what had been allowed to happen. And anger at how it was allowed to happen. The second half of the book is centered around Cardinal Bernard Law, and how his actions, and inactions, while not causing the scandal, certainly helped bring about the eventual explosion of allegations, and his lack of reaction fueled the fire of anger burning within the victims, and many members of the church.<br />This is a sad story, and a sad chapter in history. This book helps to tries to bring together what happened, and to try and untangle the threads that make the story so complex. A must read for anyone who wants to try and understand what happened in the Catholic Church, and hope that it cannot happen again.victims, he does not blindly anoint them with right. Rather he does entertain the possibility of some mistaken \\"memories\\" that came about from supposed 'repressed memory' therapy. No one in this story is above reproach. <br />As a lapsed Catholic, the most common reaction I had as I read this was sadness.  Sadness for what had happened, and what had been allowed to happen. And anger at how it was allowed to happen. The second half of the book is centered around Cardinal Bernard Law, and how his actions, and inactions, while not causing the scandal, certainly helped bring about the eventual explosion of allegations, and his lack of reaction fueled the fire of anger burning within the victims, and many members of the church. <br />This is a sad story, and a sad chapter in history. This book helps to tries to bring together what happened, and to try and untangle the threads that make the story so complex. A must read for anyone who wants to try and understand what happened in the Catholic Church, and hope that it cannot happen again.	2004-05-02
US	52536648	R1II56PV9BN2WS	0140096531	400158562	Eyes on the Prize (Penguin Books for History: U.S.)	Books	5	42	44	N	Y	An Excellent Primer	By now the number of volumes written on the Civil Rights Movement could fill whole libraries. Yet fifteen years later, this book still stands as one of the best introduction to the early years of the movement. Books such as Taylor Branch's Pillar of Fire and Parting the Waters may cover the same era of 1954 to 1965; this book is a good introduction for those who may be intimidated by Branch's comprehensive volumes. Rather than trying to cover everything, the book takes its cues from the documentary series and examines a select set of pivotal moments of the movement: school desegregation, the Montgomery bus boycott, the march on Washington, the Selma to Montgomery march and others. Each chapter delves into the story of the events, but also fleshes out the areas between these momentous events, both telling the background and hearing the experiences of those there, in their own words. The book is readable, not the dry tone that many associate with history books. But most of all it gives the reader the chance to delve into an important part of American history in the second half of the 20th century. This is an excellent book that should be picked up by anyone wanting to get a sense of where America was moving in these pivotal eleven years.	2004-04-28
US	52536648	R3FKFG8XAIWRIO	015602697X	263931217	Traveler's Guide to the Civil Rights Movement	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An Important Heritage Guide	With the idea of heritage tours of historical sites becoming more and more important, Carrier's book comes in a timely fashion. Along with Townsend Davis' &quot;Weary Feet, Rested Souls&quot; the two books form an indispensable guide to the places important to the Civil Rights movement in America.<br />Where Carrier shines is in the unsung areas. He highlights the places were things happened, especially in the country, where there are no markers, but should be. So while you might not find these places normally, you learn about their important role in a century long movement. He pulls no punches, often times pointedly noting the important part played by the unsung heroes whose place in history has been usurped by the big names, including Martin Luther King, Jr. The book is up to date, noting actions by the National Park Service in 2003, and sites in progress expected to be ready in 2004-2008.<br />One thing that comes from reading this book is the lack of formal recognition of the lives and struggles of African-Americans in the south - from plantation sites that usually don't acknowledge the lives of the slaves, to states such as Mississippi that give very little space to the African American experience in state heritage museums. A lot of this is changing, so hopefully this guide will have to be updated and revised in the near future to hopefully indicate more museums and exhibits are open.<br />Though most of the events noted in the book happened 30 to 150 years ago, it gives the reader the chance to walk in the footsteps of those who came before us. Most importantly to keep history alive, so that we never forget what has happened.	2004-03-21
US	52536648	R5Q3RGUKVMOH5	0743221826	371871433	Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation: The End of Slavery in America	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Places a difficult document in context	The Emancipation Proclamation is one of those documents that people think they know off the top of their head &quot;Oh it freed the slaves&quot; but don't understand what it really meant. That is what Guelzo sets out to fix. He places one of Lincoln's most famous, yet least understood documents in context of the civil war, and of Abraham Lincoln himself. The document was not an idea flowing fully blown from Lincoln's mind. Rather it was a process of slow development that led to one of the boldest moves of the Civil War. By focusing on just this one slice of the Civil War, Guelzo is able to explore a number of related ideas and forces in depth and weave the document into the larger tapestry of the war. It takes a little bit to get into the author's prose, but after the initial setting of the stage, the story flows well, allowing the reader to see the unfolding of time leading up to the document's release. The final tragic coda of the story shows how, after Lincoln's assassination, the accomplishments and promise of the Emancipation Proclamation quickly unraveled as we moved into Reconstruction. A good look at a moment in history.	2004-03-11
US	52536648	R368XSHJ8C55M8	140005446X	783125406	Queer Eye for the Straight Guy : The Fab 5's Guide to Looking Better, Cooking Better, Dressing Better, Behaving Better, and Living Better	Books	5	13	15	N	N	All Things Just Keep Getting Better	The Fab Five move from television to the publishing world with this practical guide.<br />Too often today, there is a wealth of things that we are expected to just know in grooming, dressing, food, wine and other areas. Yet this information is not passed along to us and so we flail. Enter this book. Here is a guide to many of these things we don't know. It puts some tszuj into our lives.<br />There's much here that is informative, but what makes it a great book is that the information is presented with and an edge that the Queer Eye Guys bring to what they do. Nothing ...harsh is in here, just a collection of \\"Do's\\" to make your life better. There is a quick introduction to wines without all the jargon. Things that we may not think of, such as `Foods to avoid on a date.' Each section gives lavishly illustrated examples, and cuts to the heart of the matter with Q & A boxes in the lower corners of many pages.<br />Each of the 5 bring their knowledge area to a section: Food, Grooming, Decoration, Fashion and the broad \\"culture\\" (all the things to do on the date to impress your companion). The best part is that for the reader, one page may elicit \\"Well that's just not me,\\" but turn the page and suddenly you see something relevant. You will be surprised how much you can pick up from this book. You can think of it as one of those \\"Underground Travel Guides\\" that are published; only this is to urban (and suburban) life tricks.<br />While the title is Queer Eye for the Straight Guy, anyone can benefit from something in here - gay, straight, guy or gal. It is fun reading with a purpose. How often do you find a book that is enjoyable in itself, yet teaches you something?  A book for everyone's shelf in this new century.	2004-02-19
US	52536648	R1D7TA0JYMXE3E	0060957379	223028703	Winter World	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fascinating Animal Adaption	When you ask &quot;what do animals do in winter?&quot; the general answer is &quot;they hibernate.&quot; But that is such an inadequate answer as Heinrich shows. The author takes us along into the winter woods of New England as he (and us the reader) discover the survival strategies employed by many inhabitants of the forest. From putting on layers of fat and slowing body functions, to burying in mud or snow, to literally freezing solid and then thawing in the spring, animals have found a much wider range of tactics to survive than we would think.<br />The writing is very accessible, as if Heinrich is giving us small talks in an informal atmosphere. Full of first person experiences and observations, but solidly grounded in science, he leads us into the winter woods to meet these animals and see them in their everyday winter lives. The observations unfold in a series of discoveries which brings the reader along on the trip and helps make the science understandable. I guarantee that you will learn things you had not known before and probably will be surprised at the ingenuity of animal survival.  You will not look at the winter woods in the same way again. An excellent journey of discovery.	2004-02-18
US	52536648	R27E1F3REQP8RJ	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Grisham shows his weaknesses	No one confuses John Grisham with Ernest Hemmingway, but he has show a talent for creating well crafted stories in the past. And he continues to do so here, weaving the story of the rise of one lawyer who essentially sells his soul to become the titular king of torts. If you know Grisham, you know what to expect - quick action, simple writing, legalese and a quick resolution. The problem here is that he tries to build up some characters but never delivers on them. Most prominently is the character of the model Ridley, who he gives dubious motives and hints that there is more than meets the eye, but then just drops her out of the story when convenient. A lot of wasted efforts to produce such a throwaway character. Essentially this book, like the others, are perfect airport reads - pick it up, enjoy it for what it is and let it while away the time while you wait.	2004-02-18
US	52536648	R3QDH5L2QRW9LF	0060089199	685155865	Bloody Sundays: Inside the Dazzling, Rough-and-Tumble World of the NFL	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Football Without The Glitz	Now that ESPN has bowed to the pressure of the NFL and cancelled the show \\"Playmakers,\\" it's left to Freeman's book to look inside the NFL and show it warts and all. A lot of attention has been given to the author's chapters on 'Steven Thompson' the pseudonym for a closeted gay football player. That chapter simply confirms what everyone already knows - that gay men are in football but they are not out nor are they likely to come out in the near future. The rest of the time Freeman draws upon his contacts and years as a reporter to analyze the people he spotlights both in an historical sense, as well as through direct access to the people and those around them. He paints pictures of people who may get the shaft in their professional lives, but who came to the game and keep going despite hardships because they truly love football. You can debate his picks for the best of all time in various positions, but you have to give Freeman the slack to express his opinions after spending time reporting on his topic, and he tries to reason out his choices. The person who does not know the NFL won't really be served by using this as an introduction, but readers familiar with the game and the players (not necessarily fanatics) will find the peek behind closed doors interesting.	2004-02-07
US	52536648	R2BNQE7NJMX6G5	006050532X	137618010	Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Look Behind The Hype	The topic of terrorism used to be in the political realm, but the past decade has seen a decided shift to the religious. Professor Stern has done an admirable job trying to get past generalities and actually study the people and their motivations. Through an unprecedented collection of interviews with the actual terrorists themselves, she helps to lift the veil a little bit, and peer underneath it. It's admirable that she undertakes this work when it in the post 9/11 world it is fraught with politics and colored by personal views, and also an issue that has no easy answer. Terrorism is in the eye of the viewer. What is one person's terrorist is another's justified protector and fighter. To see this, look at the breadth of reviews already posted here. She tries to find both sides in each movement she studies, looking how the movement came to be, and what keeps it going. What makes people send their children to be martyrs to a movement? Stern attempts to discover what is behind this. The book is thorough, but not overly dense. One of the biggest drawbacks is that Stern's academic background shines through, and sometimes the prose is a bit dry. But this is the best work I've read so far to examine terror movements both domestic and international. Well worth the read if you are interested in learning more on this hot button issue.	2004-01-22
US	52536648	RPRDTHCL21JAQ	0810991519	478499515	Outlaw Animation: Cutting-Edge Cartoons from the Spike and Mike Festivals	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Hurrah for Spike and Mike	Usually animation books tend to focus upon the producers of animation - the Disneys, the Joneses and the Freelings. But little, except for a few videos and DVDs has focused upon the work of promoters. This book lovingly pays tribute to Spike Decker and Mike Gribble - two men who are probably the most responsible for the reemergence of short animation in a world that had been stupefied by the pap that was passing for Saturday morning cartoons. The book is divided into three neat sections. First a history of Spike, Mike and their Festivals of Animation sets the stage and helps show thee pair's growth and influence upon developing animators. Then Beck looks at what he considers the ten best pieces to come out of the festivals. Many of these animators have gone on to become household names producing regular animation shows on the Cartoon Network. He also highlights many of the other animators by showing off numerous still shots of their work. Finally for the third part he lets the animators speak for themselves, interviewing them on Spike and Mike, and the pair's role in nurturing emerging animators. This is a fascinating book for any fan of modern animation, especially those of us lucky enough to have seen many of the Spike & Mike Festivals. It is sad that we have lost Mike Gribble, but this book shows that his legacy lives on and continues to grow beyond Spike and Mike's wildest dreams.	2004-01-22
US	52536648	R1XHIW4OAH8A5K	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Though Provoking and Disturbing	Flyboys is the kind of book that begins with a goal in mind, but finds that the story can only be told in a larger context. In this case the idea of telling the stories of some of the World War II aviationists in the Pacific theater and their fate at the hands of the enemy. But this story cannot exist in a vacuum, especially in light of what Bradley found happening in the Pacific during the early 20th century. Many criticize the book for going into an extended history of the Japanese mindset, culture and history. But I believe that this is where Bradley does his best work, for it is in this history that makes the decisions and actions of the Japanese in the Pacific more understandable. To simply state as a fact that the Japanese had little respect for the individual's life, and thus could commit atrocities is narrow-minded and almost racist. There is a path that led to this.<br />What is disconcerting for some readers is that the book is a collision of both revisionist views of American history and how it brought other countries to view America as saying &quot;Do As I Say, Not As I Do!&quot; At the same time it is another book celebrating the &quot;greatest generation&quot; and both the contributions of the American soldier, but also the American ingenuity, bravery and drive that helped to bring about the modern air force.<br />The tale told is a familiar one, with many of the protagonists wide-eyed young men trying to do their duty, emboldened and hampered by their youth. Much has been made of George H.W. Bush's role in this story, but for the most part his story is extraneous to the main focus, except to have him be able to serve as a counter point to what happened as one of the lucky ones to get away. The fate ultimately met by many of the American flyers captured on Chichi Jima is horrifying, and Bradley looks at this unflinchingly. He brings to light a very dark part of an already dark period of history. Still the book was fascinating to read and became difficult to put down as you are drawn into the lives of these flyboys.<br />The book sheds light upon tales previously unknown, and allows us to see a larger evil in the miniature of one small area of the Pacific towards the end of the war. One of the best books of 2003.cult to put down as you are drawn into the lives of these flyboys. <br />The book sheds light upon tales previously unknown, and allows us to see a larger evil in the miniature of one small area of the Pacific towards the end of the war. One of the best books of 2003.	2004-01-22
US	52536648	R18CMK7N3QNM6P	1841620238	104390599	Eccentric America: The Bradt Guide to All That's Weird and Wacky in the USA	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A guide to the wackiness in America	Coming as a breath of fresh air, Eccentric America highlights many of the things you won't find in Fodor's. Region by region and state by state we are taken through those things in America that are \\"eccentric\\" - offbeat, strange and unique places, people, lodging, restaurants and festivals. I may be a bit biased with my alma mater being included in the book (Jumbo's ashes) but I found the guide refreshing and a wonderful to leaf through and read. Some of the things you find here is that some of the more offbeat events highlighted are different, but not unique. Who would have guessed how many testicle festivals there are in the US?  The listings give you a quick synopsis of what it is and why it's included, then you are told where it is, and how to contact someone for more information. Some of the things are sites that I'll never visit, but it's interesting to know about them. Others are now on the list for visits when I'm going on vacation in the future. If you love things like \\"Roadside America,\\" then you'll want this one too. Anyone can plan a vacation to see historical sites or amusement parks, but with this book you can include a miniature golf course in the basement of a funeral home on your itinerary. Laugh out loud and head scratching events await the adventurous or the adventurous armchair traveler.	2003-10-26
US	52536648	R1MID33ACICC99	076272515X	718631831	Civil War Sites: The Official Guide to Battlefields, Monuments, and More	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A thorough guide to everywhere Civil War	For any history buff in the United States, the Civil War has provided a plethora of places where history has taken place. This book takes these places and brings them all together in one package for a wonderful reference book. Organized by region then state and finally by town, the book takes you around the country a give you a thorough, sometimes too thorough, listing of sites related to the American Civil War. This guide goes beyond simple battlefields and monuments as listed in many guides. Rather it tries to show you all the related areas too, including museums with Civil War exhibits, and historical buildings that played any sized part in the war including as temporary headquarters or as battlefield hospitals. Sites include directions, web sites and hours to help you plan your visit. And each entry is given nearly equal weight, so a major battlefield and the buildings along the way are both noted. This book is a great overview for looking what's out there. Coupled with a good battlefield guide you are ready to trace a major part of US History.	2003-10-26
US	52536648	R1IWPKHCWWWWB7	1578203007	569273960	Going Mobile: Building the Real-Time Enterprise with Mobile Applications that Work	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good introduction for today	Too often technology is the tail that wags the dog, and this now can be clearly seen in mobile technology. The authors work to bring together an introduction and discussion of the different flavors of mobile applications. But first, they bring you through the discussion &quot;Are mobile applications right for my organization?&quot; and talk about the pros and cons of the technology. And do you need always on connections or can you sync your data? Then if you say &quot;yes&quot; they start to walk through the technologies, capacities and problems. But it's one thing to talk about the facts, the implementation is another thing. And here the book liberally includes case studies for the technology in action. While they are great, and illuminating, I wish there were a couple of failures in the lot instead of uniformly positive studies.<br />One aspect I particularly appreciated was the breadth of uses of mobile applications presented. Initially it seemed to focus on the sales and service forces almost exclusively, but as we moved into other technologies and case studies, a well rounded picture began to emerge as to how going mobile can be useful in many enterprises. This book is a good primer and introduction to where this technology stands. It is especially good for the decision maker to understand the truth and fallacy of the technology in order to make more informed decisions. Worth the read in this fast paced world.	2003-10-13
US	52536648	RAZ7FZ0BNUO9	0060014016	79853636	The Greatest Stories Never Told: 100 Tales from History to Astonish, Bewilder, and Stupefy	Books	5	114	117	N	N	The overlooked past brought into the spotlight	Beyer is an author who is dedicated to making history interesting and fun, which he does so well in this collection of one page stories. I found the book especially interesting because of the background work the author had put into his research (the imprint of the History Channel did not hurt either) which raised these tidbits above the normal trivia, or potential urban legends. Beyer highlights some things that should not be lost in the mists of history, and points out historical facts that may be glossed over in many other history books. There is nothing earth shattering here, but more than a few will make you scratch your head, or share with others in conversation. A great book for dipping your toe in history - each story is about a page of text and is well illustrated. There is just enough to get you the interesting point without boring you.  It's a truly fun and fascinating book.	2003-09-09
US	52536648	R3B443EWYBXRK0	0060503068	844887439	Alaska: Saga of a Bold Land--From Russian Fur Traders to the Gold Rush, Extraordinary Railroads, World War II, the Oil Boom, and the Fight Over ANWR	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A competant history of the frozen frontier	Before there was Seward's Folly, there were the Russian fur traders, and before them were the native tribes. Borneman takes you on an exhaustive trip through our 49th state from its geological formation and the land bridge with Asia to the dawn of the twenty-first century. Along the way we are introduced to explorers, natives, conservationists, trappers, fishermen, prospectors, politicians and oil men, among a slew of others. He shows how Alaska has been misunderstood, misrepresented and exploited all through history. The history he presents is very thorough - almost too thorough. He speaks of many peoples and locations as Alaska was explored and the great blank on the map became filled in with details. But this is the weakness of the book. For such a vast land (superimposed over the lower 48 states, Alaska would stretch from the southeast, to California, and up to the Dakotas), the maps in the book, while helpful, do not adequately help the reader. There needed to be more - many of the places are introduced to us as the explorers come, yet pinpointing them on the map could be difficult without a guide. By necessity, many maps of Alaska need to be large scale; unfortunately a lot of this large scale is taken up by wilderness. Borneman needed to give us more blow up sections of the coast to illustrate what he was talking about. It was not until 100 pages after it was first talked about did I understand where a location really was.  Despite this flaw, you can't quibble with the author's passion for the subject and the time he has spent putting together the story of this fairly unknown land. And with its role in various empires, exploration and expansions, the history is a fascinating tapestry of kingdoms and explorers. It is not a difficult read, just one with lots of details, but one that can transport you to our northernmost state, seeing where it is and where it is still trying to fit into our United States.  A book worth the investment of time.	2003-09-09
US	52536648	R1KOYAVPUNS038	1586481789	354550974	Who's Buried in Grant's Tomb? A Tour of Presidential Gravesites	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The only things inevitable are death and taxes	While the idea of visiting the final resting places of the US Presidents may sound morbid, it really is a celebration of the lives of our leaders. These men could lead the most powerful nation in the world, but could not escape the final hand of death. The book is a concise visit to each president's life, death, funeral and burial. Lamb lets us look into the last requests of some presidents and lets us see how the president himself, as well as friends, relatives and the nation are reflected in their graves, from the ostentatious memorials to the simple marble headstones. This edition is up to date, introducing the lives and presidencies of our most recent office holders - Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, and gives us the most likely final resting places for those former presidents still with us - but for how much longer? The book also features numerous photographs taken by the author of the sites visited. A fascinating survey of the topic that makes me want to make some stops on future trips.	2003-08-07
US	52536648	R1VZPAZM5CJORY	0761129790	517932958	Non Campus Mentis	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Silly, head scratching and fun	In an expansion from the fun articles that used to appear in magazines and now flow freely in the net, Henriksson has created the collected mistakes of students. At first glance, such erroneous statements, while howlingly funny, might make you concerned for the students of today. &quot;The Sumerian culture, which was oldest, began about 3,500 years before Christmas.&quot; But a good number of these errors represent the student flail when blanking on the exam. And in that we can just laugh our head off at the misfortune of others. Yes, there is a serious lack of knowledge today about history, geography and the like, but this is not the condemnation of knowledge. Rather it is a celebration in the silliness that comes out under pressure. A laugh out loud good time!	2003-08-07
US	52536648	R3RK5M0ITW1HLS	0425181642	894540459	E=mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Science all around you	We've all heard of it, can recite it but most of us couldn't explain it. And rather than explaining it directly, Bodanis shows us a bit where Einstein was coming from, and how science came to view the various component of the equation. These history lessons give the reader what he or she needs to understand what the equation is trying to say and then are shown the equation is action here at home and in the cosmos. This book is surprisingly well written and accessible to the reader and never makes him or her feel stupid. This is probably the most lucid explanation of the theory of relativity, and introduction to some basic physics that I have seen. You won't be ready to tackle that college physics lab after reading this, but you may have something to talk about at the next cocktail party. Well worth the reader's time.	2003-07-19
US	52536648	R3GW4UDRF1M2AT	0425188426	905814912	The Secret House: The Extraordinary Science of an Ordinary Day	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A look at the little things around us	Bodanis has taken our everyday world and exposed, magnified and explained it in a fascinating book.  He takes us through a &quot;typical&quot; day and shows us what we don't see as we get up, shower, dress, go about our day and have dinner. In this he shows us what we don't see going on around us, and uses it as a chance to tell stories of how things came to be in our modern life [for example, talking about historical roots of the dining table]. For the most part, while he tells you about the millions of microscopic things that live on and around you, he does so without being alarmist. Sometimes though, I could have done without his information - he's ruined cakes for me now after a rather unsettling story of their making. In all the reader is entertained and may learn a thing or two. This book would go well with more serious books like &quot;The Secret Life of Germs&quot; by Philip M. Tierno. I also agree with another reviewer, the hard bound copy has spectacular pictures that make it worth the while to try and find that copy if you can.	2003-07-19
US	52536648	RURODE0581VC4	0345391683	434666715	Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths	Books	4	39	43	N	Y	Interesting from an historical point of view	I walked into this book having read several of Karen Armstrong's books, so I knew of her leanings that other reviewers have pointed out. Of course, if you are going to write about three major faiths, it is natural to expect some bias towards one of them. That aside, I found her history to be very interesting and helped put this city into a perspective I had not had before. She shows how an off the beaten path city became one of the most important places for three of the world's religions, and a contentious site of conflict. What Armstrong does well is to show the shifting lines that have occurred between areas of the city as various religious powers came to control. But more importantly she brings the various pieces of Jerusalem and puts them in a coherent organized narrative. Many of the places mentioned in the bible are put into perspective with each other, and their historical changes are traced over time. Even more useful is that the author generously includes maps throughout the book to show the changes and shifting lines of groups throughout time. As someone who knew little about the geography of Jerusalem, I found this to help keep all the players and movements straight. The book lags at points but overall moves very well through the centuries. This is an excellent overview history of this holy city and would be a very good introduction to the reader wishing to know more. It should not be the only book you read on the region, but rather use it as one view of the history which has brought us to the modern religious conflicts of the area.	2003-05-11
US	52536648	R2WPUUO7MVR3W9	186100821X	363834662	Beginning Access 2002 Vba	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent book to use to come up to speed	A number of books out there look at Visual Basic for Applications, but this is the only one so far that focuses on the newest version of Access. I found this book to be invaluable in cutting through the clutter and getting me straight to the practical applications of VBA.  The authors take you through basic programming tenants but don't dwell on them. Rather they jump into examples that are very interactive and instructive. Their examples are clear and are good starting points to expand from on your own. It is not an exhaustive reference, but you benefit from it more if you have some decent Access experience. If you don't know a database, you are not going to learn here. But in just a few weeks after reading this book, I find myself going again and again into the examples as starting points for my own projects. And it is amazing how a little bit of programming will impress the users.<br />There are a couple of mistakes in the book that can inhibit your code from running. In addition, the database supplied has dates of 1998 and 99, but the book uses dates in 2001, so you have to adjust your code in order to get results. And unfortunately WROX has shut down its errata area so you can't really get help with these problems. So don't assume if your code doesn't work, it is your fault. This is where the code on the CD can be helpful - if it doesn't run right it's the program, not the programmer.<br />Overall with a little patience and work, you can get a huge amount of help from this book.	2003-05-11
US	52536648	R298SDPY0RDQN0	0764566571	92483875	What If...?: Intriguing Answers for the Insatiably Curious	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Just plain fun	Marshal Brain has created a niche for taking questions that children and adults come up with that go beyond the normal range of books. Here, he contemplates and answers questions ranging from the scientific \\"What if someone shot a gun off in an airplane?\\" to the practical \\"What if I had to file bankruptcy?\\" to the just plain strange \\"What if I tied 150 helium balloons to my Jack Russell terrier that weighs only 10 pounds - would she float away in the air?\\"  Urban myths are addressed also; for example looking at what really would be the result of tossing a coin off the Empire State Building. Each question is treated matter of factly and this dry tone makes reading a few pages enjoyable, but you wouldn't really want to sit down and just read cover to cover. I suspect that this book will appear in many bathrooms, where short span reading is valued. Brain notes his favorite questions, as well as perennial favorites at his web site. It sometimes shows that he puts in more love to his favorites but works he works hard on all his questions. Overall, you may walk away having learned something as well as being entertained. Wonderful for curious children of all ages.	2003-05-11
US	52536648	R1VDK3FKB2XM4H	0816050694	283172932	Historical Atlas of Religions	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Quick Overview of Religion	Though this book is called an Atlas, and uses the continents for organization and division, this is really a survey book - an overview of religions in the world. What is positive about this book is the breadth of religious issues and movements that are covered from all around the world. The drawback is that many of these overviews are short - taking up a page plus illustrations. And some of the information presented has small mistakes. But overall it is a decent overview for anyone looking to go beyond the local religious information, or wishes to see the breadth of religious practices in the world. However, know the visits are only skin deep - if you want to know more there are more substantial books there to introduce you to major religious movements. A decent way to dip your toe into the breadth of religious beliefs.	2003-05-11
US	52536648	R3L9IC132BU09D	0312310064	268236099	Plane Insanity: A Flight Attendant's Tales of Sex, Rage, and Queasiness at 30,000 Feet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A rollicking ride in the absurdity of life	Elliott Hester takes us behind the curtain and puts us squarely on the other side of the drink cart to see what it's like to be flight attendant's world. And as he shows so ably, it's quite bizarre.  Anyone who has worked in a service industry knows the customer from hell, but it seems that locking customers into a flying tin can will bring out even more strange and striking behavior. What helps balance out Hester's book is that not only are the passengers in for his acid tongue - corporations, pilots and fellow flight attendants all come under the microscope, whether behaving badly or just letting off steam. While he acknowledges that there are some advantages (cheap flights, flexible schedule) there are a lot of downsides to the romantic version of the flight crew. Poking fun at even himself, he never slides over to mean, though some of his stories straddle the line. Rather it's a good read that will make you think twice when you ask for that extra pillow on your next flight.	2003-03-30
US	52536648	R1L8CX1K6TLJ0S	0375508597	362018127	The Age of Sacred Terror	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Terror warnings from experts	Benjamin and Simon bring to the table substantial experience in counterterrorism and the roots of terrorism in the Middle East. This book was timely after September 11th, and is even more so now that we are engaged in war in Iraq. Realizing that the typical reader has only limited experience with Islam, and with the Middle East, they start off exploring the ideological foundation built by Ibn Taymiyya. From this Islamic fundamentalist, others through the years have picked up the torch of activism and hatred of the west. The most striking recent example is Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda. They write how bin Laden's hatred towards the west comes from his views of Islam, and many of the terrorists who participate are motivated by religion. And because of this their writings have been controversial.<br />Much of the danger of terrorism today comes from Islamic fundamentalists, it is not Islam that is the root of the problem, it is the way it is used by these terrorists as justification of activity. This fanaticism is not limited to the Islamic world. One has to only look at the domestic news of Christian fundamentalists murdering doctors and blowing up abortion clinics in the name of God. And once we get past this view we can look at the historical development of anti-American terror, and realize that this is just the beginning. The authors demonstrate that al-Qaeda is a master of taking the attacks steps further than in the past, showing coordinated timing and planning of attacks as demonstrated with the embassy bombings in Nairobi and Tanzania. This book presents a clear eyed view of the terrorist dangers that appear in the world today and how the ideology driving terror has shifted to fulfilling the \\"will of God (Allah).\\"	2003-03-30
US	52536648	R2HNTZL7VUPDMS	0821227548	47434387	Antarctica: A Year at the Bottom of the World	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The Haunting Beauty of Antarctica	Jim Mastro got to do what so few of us are able to do - to spend a year at the bottom of the world and experience the frenetic summers and the solitary winters. His experiences are recorded here to share with readers and makes for a fascinating and beautiful book. Mastro spent a year working in Antarctica as a diver and lab support person. He has recorded in words and photographs what he experienced and saw. And this is what is different about his book. Other books such as &quot;Terra Incognita&quot; and &quot;Antarctica: Exploring the Extreme: 400 Years of Adventure&quot; try to describe the beauty and danger of the southern continent. This book shows you. The photos are glorious and breathtaking and serve to illustrate the stories Mastro writes. If anything now I am even more determined that I must see Antarctica myself. He gives you the majesty of this bleak land, as well as the intimacy that comes as the night closes in for the winter, and finally the small slivers of joy that come as the winter begins to recede and light returns to the continent. A cycle of life and rebirth that so few of us will ever get to see is wonderfully illustrated here.  Just a wonderful book.	2003-03-30
US	52536648	R7IB9FWEFEOGG	1579121128	360420412	Take Me Out to the Ballpark: An Illustrated Guide to Baseball Parks Past & Present	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A diamond in the rough	Take Me Out to the Ballpark captures your eye with its unusual shape, which tells you that you're not just going on for a stodgy history of baseball. Levinthal takes on the task of extolling our ballparks past and present. Of course this is a huge task, which he makes bigger with a smattering of looks at minor league parks and Negro League parks. There is also the unenviable task of trying to give the same space for storied Fenway Park or Ebbets Field and newer places such as SAFECO Field.<br />How does he do? He does surprisingly well, considering the task. The book is not perfect - Levinthal had to decide what to cull and what to include. Some of it is dry - after a while reading the book I didn't care the center field distance of each park. It is nice to know it's there should I wish to look it up, but it was repetitive after a while. And unfortunately he is writing in the midst of a trend of ballpark changes and construction. So even though the book is only a couple of years old, it suffers telling about some of the fields that are no longer with us now that teams have moved on.<br />However, beyond that the book is fun. So much attention is paid to the players over the years it's nice to see someone pay attention to the green cathedrals that are so integral to the game. In many ways this book could be a launching pad for someone who wants to read up more on the Polo Grounds or other great fields which are no longer with us. It is good for the curious as an introduction to the breadth of ballparks, as well as the fan, who will enjoy the stats and stories of their most and least favorite parks. A good book to get you into the new baseball season.	2003-03-30
US	52536648	R2MDOISA3V4LGV	0471237124	144112552	The Art of Deception: Controlling the Human Element of Security	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	An interesting look at security's weak link	Kevin Mitnick has been arguably the most famous computer hacker out there. His story has been told by others in several books. But here Mitnick is not trying to really share his experiences - rather he calls upon his collection of acquaintances and others he knows to illustrate how people can be engineered. Most of the book is essentially a series of stories of social engineering (getting someone to do what you want without their realizing it) and then some superficial analysis of why it worked. He then tries to synthesize his earlier chapters into a set of practical security precautions, many of which are common sense, and most of which the reader would have already figured out from reading the book. The stories he chooses to share are fairly interesting, both in their daring and setup and in their simplicity. What this book would be best for would be handing it to a corporate manager and allow him or her a wake up call as to security. As we try to work together, have things automated and available on-line and as our organizations grow the catchword is results, even if you have to bend the rules a bit. This is what the social engineer can exploit. Many of the stories skate along the edge of the law, and Mitnick points out when it would cross into illegal. While interesting, after a while the book becomes more tedious in structure and what is being said. Still it is very accessible and would be a great book for someone not so familiar with computers and hacking to see how some of it is done. It should serve as a wake-up call for management as to some of the dangers we face every day. And while most of the stories presented are more in the spirit of curiosity, or fun, or revenge, it would be easy to take them up a notch into activities with serious corporate impact.	2003-03-30
US	52536648	R2UIMGORKN0ZUW	081296618X	166313123	Islam: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A good introduction to a hot topic	In the past 50 years the religion of Islam has pushed into the western consciousness, extremely more so since September 11th. But very many people have no idea what Islam is and represents, and those who do know something often know wrong information. Armstrong tries to fill some of this knowledge void. She admirably takes 1500 years of history and condenses it down to under 200 pages - giving the reader an idea of the scope of it's history and how it developed. This book is for the new reader, who wants to learn, but is off put by the length of history, or the plethora of Arabic names and terms. She is able to give you an idea of how the crusades interacted with the development of Islam, without taking you through a detailed history of all the crusades. There is a bibliography to help you find more detailed information on a topic you are interested in.<br />What is useful is the conciseness of the writing, and providing a glossary of Arabic terms, as well as a who's who of important figures in Islamic history. Through the spread of Islam over the centuries you can see how we have come to the fractioning that we have today in the geo-political realm. If you invest some time in this book you will come away with a greater understanding and appreciation of one of the major world religions. And it is information like this that is so necessary to combat ignorance about our neighbors in the world.	2003-03-20
US	52536648	R15IUC8ZSQ487I	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Thought Provoking View of International Economics	Globalization so often evokes pictures of rioters in Seattle, Genoa and Washington DC protesting the World Trade Organization or other economic planning meetings. But while one cannot doubt their fervor, they often are not as effective in explaining *why* they oppose globalization, at least to an extent further than the evening news sound bites. But here, Joseph Stiglitz has weighed in and helped explain at least one view as to why the protesters are right to be upset. He looks at the effect that global economic activity has had over the past decade. Stiglitz is unsparing at naming the root of the problem - the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. He lays the problems upon the policies and practices of these two organizations and how in his opinion they hinder rather than help especially developing countries. Rather, their &quot;roadmap&quot; of policies only serve to make things worse for these countries, especially when the problems spill over from one country to the next as happened in the Asian economic crisis a few years back.<br />As a non-economist, I was leery of delving into this book, but found that it was very accessible, and free of too much economic jargon or theory. Stiglitz has written a book for the reader interested in international politics and the world situation today. I may not be the most scintillating thing you read this year, but it can be a very thought provoking read. It's a well argued point of view in a cacophony of world opinions.	2003-03-20
US	52536648	R1ZHN5XN1OMQAK	0805065415	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Adventure in the Pacific	The question often asked of Columbus - how could he &quot;discover&quot; America if there were already people here could apply to Captain Cook and his 3 voyages of discovery in the Pacific. Retracing some of the journeys, Horwitz sets out across the world to discover Cook, and the world he encountered. This is helped by the fact that a lot of the remote areas have changed very little in the intervening 200 plus years. But Horwitz also shows us that Cook's travels are remembered in differing ways - from worship, to indifference, to outright hostility, depending on where you go. While Columbus is honored with numerous locations, and others like Magellan have landmarks named after them. Yet Cook was more self effacing and thus very little bears the name of this explorer. This makes the journey even more interesting, as you try to get into the head and person of the great Captain.<br />Some of the book is depressing and almost seems an aside. Repeatedly Horwitz and his friend run into walls trying to look beyond the published history and understand the early European - Native contacts through the people left behind. An oft repeated theme is the way Cook is looked up as a monster by the natives today, having shattered paradise with his arrival. Horwitz juxtaposes the historical journeys of Cook seen through logs and writings of the time, and what is to be discovered today. Much of the writing is very enjoyable and brings us along to visit remote areas in the Pacific that we most likely would not visit ourselves. Some parts get long winded, or stretch for inclusion, but overall the book moves along nicely and pays honor to the explorer and his place in the world, both in the 17th century, and the 21st.	2003-03-04
US	52536648	RIT4BU4X7FVN4	0375709665	779853241	Sibley's Birding Basics: How to Identify Birds, Using the Clues in Feathers, Habitats, Behaviors, and Sounds	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Great Introduction to nany aspects of birding	I came into this book with some interest in learning to identify birds around the yard to a greater extent. This is the first book that I've seen to go beyond the basics of shape and color. It's actually a virtual biology lesson on birds with fine details about feathers, and molting among other topics. Very detailed materials that help the reader understand how to see the parts of the bird beyond quick impressions in order to make identifications. But I also gained a new insight into an animal that I took for granted just seeing every day. Sibley is an incredible artist and liberally demonstrates his concepts with sketches and drawings of a wide variety of birds. The combination of beautiful art, and clear, educational writing makes one of the best introductions I've ever seen to birds, and how to know and appreciate them. Highly recommended for the casual as well as serious bird enthusiast.	2003-02-23
US	52536648	R3C7TGMK98GFYG	078688830X	900537440	10 Sure Signs a Movie Character is Doomed: And Other Surprising Movie Lists	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Trivial Fun	Not intended as a scholarly or unbiased book, this collection of movie lists range from the hilariously perceptive - \\"13 great perks of being a movie character\\" to the wholly opinionated - \\"The 40 worst movies I've ever seen.\\" The title caught my eye and the humorous writing kept me reading. Some of the lists are, well just lists like \\"Sequels that have equaled or bettered the original.\\" No explanation or justification - just a list. And some of the lists are just self indulgent - \\"Attack of the quote whores\\" which collects those random fluff love quotes that we see in advertisement and puts them on a couple of pages for no good reason at all. Still, Roeper has taken some of that love of movies that propelled him to where he is by showing \\"5 Reasons George Baily Isn't Such a Wonderful Guy in It's a Wonderful Life,\\" and the mentioned below \\"7 movies in which Ben Affleck cries like a big fat baby.\\" If you are looking for serious cinematic writing, go look for Pauline Kael. Otherwise this is a great little commute, waste time or bathroom book. I only wish Roeper had put in a table of contents so I could easily find the gems again when I look for them instead of flipping through the book. Just silly. Enjoy!	2003-02-16
US	52536648	R26WBN0XEM1REK	1571312471	671611176	ecology of a Cracker Childhood (The World As Home)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Growing up in the longleaf pine forest	Ray has written an interesting mix of memoir and nature book in Ecology of a Cracker Childhood. She shows us growing up in the 60's and 70's in the rural, poor southeast corner of Georgia, where amongst a rolling junkyard of old machines, and surrounded by a vast array of characters, she and her family eked out a simple, and relatively comfortable existence. What helps make this book unique is the positive ness of it - Ray is not telling stories looking back and showing why she left the area when she could. Nor is she breaking our hearts with stories of hardship, violence or innocence lost that so many stories of poor country upbringing. Instead, it is a collection of wry and emotional stories of her life, interspersed with stories about the beloved longleaf pine forest. Surprising this alternating flows naturally, and is not as jarring as one would expect. In fact, her passion for the forest intertwines with her passion for life, and for her family. The essential conflict of the biography does not involve her really, it involves the forest's fight to survive in the face of cutting and tree farming, and the encroachment of civilization. A fine book with a point that does not hit you over the head with this message. Rather she beautifully entwines growing up with growing up with nature. It's a shame if we let her world disappear. An excellent and enjoyable read.	2003-02-08
US	52536648	R32BASZBKKJWTX	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	33	34	N	N	When Faiths Collide	With the current political climate continuing to build up heat and tension, religion is playing a significant role in the politics of the world today. In an ironic twist, that some would say proves the existence of a God with a sense of irony, three of the world's major religions (and the 3 most involved in the middle east tensions of today) all claim some fountainhead with one man - Abraham. The interesting part of the story is how three worlds could work with the same man and his family, and mold that into the image that would best suit each religion's needs and agenda. This is what I found most interesting about the book - how a sketchy story in the distant past could be used and interpreted to certain ends in order to help religion develop. Some other reviewers have quibbled with Feiler's interpretations of interpretations, but overall he does a credible job in exploring the stories and the major faiths involved. He approaches each of the faith with a skeptical eye, looking to understand how and why such interpretations worked out. He even turns the questioning eye to his own Jewish faith and the development of Abraham into the father figure he is.  Like in his \\"Walking the Bible,\\" Feiler starts off in Israel, looking to find the pieces of the Bible that he can see, and touch. But quickly he realizes that instead of physical locations and objects, for the most part the story of Abraham resides not in the land but in the stories, and the hearts of the faithful. He is engaging in less of a journey through history as he is a journey through the hearts and minds of those who came before. Hardly the last word on the topic of Abraham, but a good introduction and exploration of the issues involved. An interesting and very accessible book.	2003-02-08
US	52536648	R2C1JQ86FP98B1	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Growing up is not easy	Many of us think our family is strange; however Burroughs trumps most of our claims easily in his memories of growing up. The cast of characters he presents here could fill several books by many other authors, and refreshingly the author is not necessarily the sanest of them all. The book begins with Burroughs as a compulsive clean freak with obsessions about hair and clothes that help insulate him from the world around. Yet as he's thrown into the mix with Dr. Finch and his family, the walls come down and he begins to embrace, if not thrive on the chaos around him. The book is told not in a \\"oh pity me for what I went through\\" voice - rather it's more of a story over beer showing how messed up the world can be. As noted by other reviews, he sometimes does go into \\"Too Much Information\\" land, but it's not so much lurid details as just more facts to support the craziness around. This is a story of a young man who is far from perfect, but who works with what life gave him, and comes out of it strong. A very enjoyable and fascinating look into the adolescence of one man.	2003-01-27
US	52536648	R3L21CY0J2PI30	0385334966	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Chilling and Prescient	To have read Alibek's story when it first came out would have been cautionary and chilling. But in the world since 9/11/01, some of the warnings Alibek presents are downright prescient and on the mark. His talk about the weaponization of Anthrax, as well as the deadly power of it hit home after the anthrax scares and mail attacks the U.S. experienced. I suppose by now much of what he has to relate has been covered at least somewhat in books such as \\"Demon in the Freezer\\" and \\"Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War.\\" But here we have it from the horse's mouth. Alibek's delivery is so matter of fact that it gives increased horror to the work that was done. He seems to have second thoughts about the work he did with developing bioweapons in the Soviet Union, he is not apologetic for the work he's done, which helps what he has to say. This is not a \\"mea-culpa\\" book from a penitent scientist. This is a wake up call to say \\"look at what we did, and continue to do.\\" Until this past year and the increasing amount of attention paid to 'weapons of mass destruction,' bio-weapons were largely put on the back burner - partially because it was hard to know what others were doing, and largely it exists as weapons so varied and of new virulence, that we effectively have little defense against it. So the result was more of putting the head in the sand and ignoring it. But Ken Alibed, and recent events, has proven this to be a bad course of action, and one we are moving away from. This book is, and continues to be, a wake up call of the dangers that are out there in the world, not just among the former Soviet Union, but among many nations today, a good number who are not too friendly towards the U.S.  Biohazard is a chilling warning to us all.	2003-01-27
US	52536648	RBKUSHK3IAIQT	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Man sows the seeds of his destruction	What begins as a noble undertaking - the wiping out of the scourge of humankind in the guise of smallpox, becomes a greater potential danger for mankind, perpetuated by mankind itself. In a new version of the adage \\"If you outlaw guns, only outlaws will have guns\\" we now find that while we have eradicated a deadly disease in the wild, we have made it infinitely more dangerous in the lab.<br />Preston once again writes about the hazard of bioweapons. This time he uses the recent anthrax scare as the launching point to discuss man's use of technology to create deadlier and deadlier biological weapons. With the thread of war with Iraq hanging over our heads, the fear of bioweapon use has not been higher. He then takes this anthrax and steps off from that, as if to say \\"If you think this is bad, well look behind this curtain.\\" Here Preston begins after his main point - the continued existence of smallpox in two official repositories in the US and Russia, as well as the potential multiple repositories across the world in renegade experimentation. His point - that the world is a very dangerous place, and we stand at the threshold of a new kind of warfare - one that could make the atomic bomb look like a small explosion.<br />Living only a few miles from the CDC, this book struck particularly home. Preston goes on to describe in detail the horror experienced by a victim of smallpox. Then he proceeds to explain the storehouse at the Centers for Disease Control, and more so how experiments have been taking place there with Smallpox, including on the day of September 11, 2001. Had the CDC been a target that date, many of us in Atlanta would not be reading this book today.<br />Unfortunately, I don't think Preston's bouncing between smallpox and anthrax worked as well as he intended. It would have been better if he were to prepare two discreet sections and scare the bejesus out of us with both. Overall, though, he makes you think, worry and sweat a little. Walking away from this book, the reader should be scared and  alarmed. But most of all the reader will be informed. Well worth your time.this book, the reader should be scared and  alarmed. But most of all the reader will be informed. Well worth your time.	2003-01-14
US	52536648	R2TXWHUNZYHVC0	0867160853	328100034	Great Themes of Scripture: Old Testament (Great Themes of Scripture Series)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Great Old Testament Overview	Building upon a series of lectures given in the early seventies, Rohr and Martos expand on the ideas to look at the books of the Old Testament from a more macro view. From this stepped back view, the authors show how the books fit together, and how the parts of books such as Exodus build a contextual history of the times and how people are brought together with God. Rohr rejects fundamentalist or biblical literalist readings of the Old Testament, choosing to look at what the stories of the bible meant to those who originally wrote and shared the stories, and how they interact with our relationship with God today. This is one of the best series to lay out a good basis for studying the Old Testament and to understand what the bible is trying to tell us. A succinct volume that can be read again and again, it continues  to bringing us into a greater understanding of faith and the Bible.	2003-01-07
US	52536648	RDE7CIITOQX72	1556524285	406313166	Antarctica: Exploring the Extreme: 400 Years of Adventure	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great overview of the continent - could have been better	Antarctica represents for many the final frontier on a greatly explored Earth. Yet for such an unknown land (Terra Incognita) it has exerted a strong pull on the imagination of adventurers and explorers for hundreds of years. Some of the stories are not well known, others are exhaustively chronicles, such as explorations by Byrd and Shackelford. Landis takes an overview position, presenting stories briefly, to try and weave a tapestry of exploration, adventure and danger. As a result, some of the stories seem to get the short shrift, but an exhaustive history of the continent is not the objective. It is an overview exploration that she is getting at, written by one who has obviously fallen in love with the continent. It's a great starting off point for those who are interested or falling in love with Antarctica.<br />But the book suffers from a major flaw that so many other books on Antarctica suffer - the lack of maps and illustration. She takes great pains to describe details of trips, discoveries, and pushes towards the pole, yet there is only a rough map of explorations (which does not neatly correspond with what is being written about) and one somewhat detailed map inside the cover, which is inadequate and does not even show the entire continent. I found myself frustrated and turning to other atlases to try and put her descriptions into real life context. It keeps the book from really reaching some of its potential.<br />Also, in the last chapter of the book, Landis goes on to describe the animal life of Antarctica, which is very good. But it quickly gets boring and tedious with no illustration of the animals she is describing.  Again, to differentiate between the various types of penguins or seals would be helpful to see what is being written about. Instead we are forced to work with the mind's eye, which is a sin when trying to introduce the wonder and diversity of life.<br />These deficiencies keep a good book from being a great book. Still, worth giving a chance, if nothing else that to give yourself a glimpse into an area many of us yearn for, but few will ever get to see.a chance, if nothing else that to give yourself a glimpse into an area many of us yearn for, but few will ever get to see.	2003-01-07
US	52536648	R1NK060INMQZY4	0805063315	207010020	Dr. Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Birds do it, Bees do it	Sex. We love to talk about it but not think too much about it. Judson opens the world to us of the different permutations and methods of sexual contact in the world, and why. In evolution, nature favors the ones that can pass along his or her genes tot he next generation. To ensure this, animals have created a wide variety of methods to reproduce ahead of the Joneses. Where such a topic could be boringly academic, or annoyingly titillating, Judson weaves through the middle, showing the serious side of reproduction but approaching it in a humorous way. Writing as an animal sex advice columnist, she is able to real world examples as a launching pad for discussion of various topics. And as she shows, IT'S A JUNGLE OUT THERE.  We may think that us humans have problems with sex - it's nothing compared to the drive, and deviousness experienced in the animal world. Fresh writing and an interesting topic makes for a very enjoyable and educational read.	2003-01-07
US	52536648	R1REBSQMV6XE95	0786403950	66834499	Forbidden Animation: Censored Cartoons and Blacklisted Animators in America	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Animation - not just cartoons	Animation has always been a reflection of popular culture, sometimes on the cutting edge, sometimes just a mainstream reaction. Yet because of the popular idea that animation is &quot;kids stuff,&quot; it is sometimes not taken seriously. Cohen tries to shine a light on how animation goes way beyond &quot;kids stuff&quot; and reflects on the social forces that went into the creation of animated shorts and features. Despite being seen as a niche, animation has been subjected to a lot of self imposed rules of what can and cannot be shown, and to a lot of outside forces by both organized efforts such as the Hayes Office and less organized efforts such as popular protests against films like Coonskin or Fritz the Cat.<br />You do not have to know a lot about animation to enjoy this book. It helps, but most of us have been exposed to a number of the examples cited over the course of growing up. And what is politically incorrect is a moving target, so what was acceptable in one era is wholly out now. We see it even today with the television censorship of violence in classic cartoons.<br />It's also important to note that despite being seen as a less serious medium that could often get away with more than film, animators were still subject to the same winds of politics as illustrated by the final chapter on blacklisting. Animators were asked to name names to the HUAC, and many did not work in Hollywood again for defying the committee. Until I read this book I had no idea of the breadth of this blacklisting upon animators and it reinforces the shame of this era of our history.<br />Rather than passing judgment, Cohen uses mostly illustrations to show his point, letting the reader decide how much was/is too much. And he brings this battle of content into the late 20th century with examples of battles over The Simpsons, and Ren and Stimpy.  Overall a very fascinating look into an area that is usually glossed over or ignored.	2002-12-04
US	52536648	R9JCC4S2WO2F7	0312141459	734573124	What's That From?: The Ultimate Quiz Book of Contemporary Movie Lines	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Outstanding Fun	For many of us, the quoting of movies is second nature. We do it all the time, often without realizing it. And often times we know of movie quotes that are familiar even if we've never seen the movie. The book brings all of this to bloom in a wonderful book asking you to recognize quotes both general and specific to an actor, theme or movie. As the book progresses the quizzes become more difficult, and provide a real challenge to even a movie geek. Just the kind of book to have fun with some friends over a few beers. No lofty ambitions here, just a hope to make you think, and be entertained.	2002-12-04
US	52536648	R2MZCBVH3VHS8Y	0871137976	71915930	A Gap in Nature: Discovering the World's Extinct Animals	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Hauntingly Beautiful	We've often heard about the loss to our world due to extinction. Flannery and Schouten put &quot;faces&quot; to this loss. These 'Ghosts of Species Past' represent just a handful of the things that we have directly or indirectly caused to disappear from the Earth. Many books try to give us an idea of the loss through descriptions and stories. What sets this book above the rest are the illustrations by Schouten. Often working with only skins, parts of the animal, or old drawings, he has created hauntingly beautiful illustrations of what these animals might have looked like were we to see them in their natural habitats. And that is what you will take away from this book, more than just the scope of loss, but the physical beauty and diversity that these animals represent. And that is a shame. Many of these animals were only seen a few times, so the information on them is sketchy, yet Schouten breathes life into these ancient corpses. The book's message will stay with you. Let's hope that we can cut back on contributing to the next volume in the world today.	2002-12-04
US	52536648	R8772Y3XA195C	048625576X	470723635	America's Lighthouses: An Illustrated History (Dover Maritime)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Brings Light to the subject	Holland gives us a great overview of the history of America's lighthouses which is a wonderful introduction for anyone interested in learning more about this topic. The first third of the book takes us through the history of the lighthouse authorities, and the people involved in various aspects of locating, building and maintaining these beacons. He gives you an idea just how such important aids to maritime traffic evolved often as the lonely stepchild in a system rife with patronage and corruption to a system of still relevant lights on the coasts. Holland then turns his story to looking at the historical progression of building lights in different areas of the country - the upper Atlantic States, Southeastern states, Gulf coast, Great Lakes, Pacific coast. Often times these stories are not significant for one light but become important when woven with the history of other lights in the area. Unfortunately, here he tries to cover too much ground in too much of an overview. While many lighthouse's history consists of a couple of paragraphs of relevant data, to see these again and again starts to numb you to them. I found after a couple of coasts, my interest started to wane, wanting to only read a couple of specific lighthouses' histories. I think that woven as a narrative, these histories would have proven more riveting. Still overall it is evident that Holland has spent time researching his topic and the book is rich in period photographs to help bring his stories alive. A very good book, just not a great one. Certainly one to pick up and learn more about America's lighthouses.	2002-12-04
US	52536648	R3LPO7I4DN874H	1578515599	366229635	The Weather Channel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting look at a media success	This is an interesting book, using the Weather Channel as an example of the birth of specialized channels in the early cable market. Now we take the plethora of channels available to us as a given (57 channels and nothing on), yet in the early days it was a fight to get a new channel carried over cable systems. The Weather Channel succeeded through a strong idea, people that believed in it, and being on the cutting edge of technology. While I expected this to be a straight story of the birth and growth of the Weather Channel, I was surprised to find that it was that, as well as a musing upon communications, and what makes a successful channel, and a successful company. The actual history is only a bit over half the book. The rest looks at the technology involved, and the lessons of leadership, and new ventures. Finally it concludes with some interesting first person stories of experiences in the building of the channel. An interesting read. Not exactly what I expected, but still a fascinating glimpse behind getting a specialized cable channel up and running, and successful for 20 years.	2002-12-04
US	52536648	R36SQ4LH5S1EYI	0596000847	881514524	Access Cookbook (O'Reilly Windows)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Finally!  An Indispensable Guide!	O'Reilly has a series entitled &quot;The Missing Manual&quot; of books. This could rightfully be the &quot;Missing Supplemental Guide&quot; for Access, for this book opens up a lot of the lesser known tricks that are not covered in the standard text but are part of the problems database managers face all the time. Getz, et al take us beyond instruction into actual working code, and explains the idea behind it. The examples are practical - I've put a number of them to work in daily business already. And with the accompanying CD, you can see these functions in action through live database examples. The help in the book is not overly technical so only an Access Guru can follow and replicate it. It's written for people who work with Access and are comfortable with it but want to take things to the next level. The book is organized into thematic chapters so you can delve into what you want or need to know and get the full range. My copy is covered with post-it flags for different examples I want to refer to again and again. It is not often that a book can fill the void in instruction, but Getz and the Access Cookbook had done just that. User friendly, practical, and understandable make this book a permanent resident on the shelf only an arms length away.	2002-11-15
US	52536648	R30SE3E1NOT05M	0060516305	161484431	The Ultimate Simpsons in a Big Ol' Box: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family Seasons 1-12	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Bring you up to speed on our favorite animated family	As the Simpsons head into their 14th season, there are more and more viewers brought into fandom. With the regular Sunday Night showings, and the ubiquitous syndicated re-runs, as well as the first two seasons on DVD, new fans join the gang. And for those of you who are new to the phenomenon, this is the way to get yourself up to date on what's come before. There have been three volumes of the Simpsons' episodes guide books published; The Simpsons: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family, The Simpsons Forever! A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family...Continued, and The Simpsons Beyond Forever. For those who have not bought the books in the past, here is a chance to get all three outstanding volumes in one neat boxed package, and at a price cheaper than buying the three volumes individually. Each episode is given expanded treatment, with a synopsis, quotes from the episode, &quot;in-jokes&quot; and movie references and information on the guest voices. A complete roster of the nearly 300 introductory chalkboards and couch gags are spelled out, as well as other repeating themes, such as the use of &quot;D'oh!&quot; and &quot;Mmmmmm....&quot; And finally, indexes allow you to go looking for certain characters, actors or other reference - perfect for settling those trivia contests or bar bets. If you love the Simpsons, these books are the perfect companion to what Time Magazine declared the Television Show of the Century.	2002-10-27
US	52536648	R2QLDCW1VIPM9D	0060505923	224047190	The Simpsons Beyond Forever!: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family...Still Continued	Books	5	7	8	N	N	D'oh! and a whole lot more	The Simpsons juggernaut keeps on rolling along, this title updating the successful series of books on the show with Season 11 and 12. Continuing the successful formula of previous books, we are treated to two or more pages per show, with synopsis, guest stars, quotes and notes (as well as &quot;things you may have missed&quot;) from the episode. In between are sketches, D'oh comments, couch gags and the ever popular chalkboard per episode. With the ever expanding world of the Simpsons, what is ultimately great parts of the guide are the index, which let you look for that obscure character name, or the guest voices, and the list of voices for the regular cast members. The latter truly shows the breadth of many of the fine voice actors of the series that help contribute to it's continued success. And with the Simpsons showing no sign of slowing down, I'm sure we'll see some more volumes of this series.<br />Just like the &quot;Simpsons Forever..Continued&quot; this book is a bit thin to justify the price. It weighs in sturdier than the last volume by over 30 pages, but it still has to work hard to justify the price tag. Happily, the book is a full color collection of such minutia and trivia that it makes up for the value, somewhat.	2002-10-27
US	52536648	R28LWEDM9FEJHI	0156006499	974363538	Time's Pendulum: From Sundials to Atomic Clocks, the Fascinating History of Timekeeping and How Our Discoveries Changed the World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	If I could keep time in a bottle....	How many times a day do we unconsciously look at our watches, or the clock on the stove or the VCR (provided it's not permanently blinking 12:00)? Yet for many years, the capture of time to a clock was at best around the right hour of the day. Bernett takes us through the refinement of clock technology and clock making, and how this more exact time changed our lives, some would argue with the idea of a change for the better. She takes us on a simple and entertaining sweep of time from sundials to measuring the beats of an atom in order to tell what time it really is. Along the way there are arguments about the prime meridian and time zones as we are forced to go from telling time by the sun above each of us, to entire time zones on a single time, irregardless of where the sun exactly is. At least the trains could run on time.<br />Then Barnett pulls back and looks at the greatest clock around - the planet Earth itself. The question of how old the Earth is was a question that kept pushing the answer back and back further in time. Of course the Earth was only 6,000 years old, according to biblical interpreters. That is until the strata and fossils began to be understood, and then half life of radioactive elements could fix time ever more exactly. Now that we are able to &quot;read&quot; a good part of the clock that is the Earth, our placement of ourselves in time has also settled. So now we have a concept of where we are in time, and how to find it. At least until the earth slows some more due to friction in the tides.  An interesting book that doesn't delve too deep and pulls you along on an interesting, everyday subject.	2002-10-27
US	52536648	R2YNPXTCOWDFSM	0679450785	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wake up if there is to be a future of life	Wilson is one of our foremost thinkers and writers on biodiversity and conservation. Other books have spent time looking at the diversity of life across the globe and the forces that have and continue to play upon nature's existence. Following these, Wilson takes a look back, then takes a big breath and looks forward to where we are going.<br />To put the issues in perspective Wilson looks at the situation in Hawaii - a land where the native diversity of life has been enhanced, supplanted and destroyed by deliberate and accidental immigration of foreign flora and fauna. The changes to Hawaii over the years give us a more concentrated and contemporary illustration of what has happened often over the globe. The population grows, but nature to support it remains at the same level, if not declining.<br />But all is not lost in Wilson's mind. His final chapter helps spell out the positives for the future of life. He looks at the arguments of the Environmentalists  and the People-Firsters and what they see, or miss-see, in the other's. He states that the central problem of the new century is how to &quot;raise the poor to a decent standard of living worldwide while preserving as much of the rest of life as possible.&quot; He shows some ways this is happening through conservation organizations and governmental protections. So despite the bleak picture he creates in earlier chapters, Wilson offers up hope in the last.<br />Wilson has a very good way of weaving the situation around the reader so he or she understands his point, and sees why he is passionate about avoiding the mistakes of the past. A wake up call is issued to the present, to preserve the future. For everyone.	2002-10-19
US	52536648	R1FQ41TN8GAK0A	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One man CAN change the world	Few people can claim being one of the fathers of a science discipline, and while William Smith may not have been the first one to look at Geology, he certainly was one of the first to put the pieces together to show us what's under our feet. Winchester once again finds a fascinating, if unsung, person involved with creating a new collection of knowledge and relates the story. And of course, the path is never straight or easy for the hero, and neither was it for William Smith due to intrigue, deceit and lack of money. Winchester has the ability to take what on the surface would be a dull story and breathes new life into it, allowing us to understand and appreciate the work of Smith; how he took what was before our eyes and interpreted it to show what we couldn't see. It's a story of personal perseverance - Smith took on mapping the entire country himself, and to do it at the end of the 18th century. Great genius is often looked upon jealously, and not recognized in its time, and that is what Smith saw also. In later years he became lauded for his work, but at the time was obscure, derided and alone.  This book is a nice look into a slice of history that we don't often see, or contemplate.	2002-10-16
US	52536648	R32LUEF7KDOSMG	0802713734	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A surprisingly interesting history of something small	We pick up the salt shaker and spice our food, or avoid the shaker like the plague, but usually don't give a second thought about the salt. Sure, we learn about the use of spices and salt to preserve food in the past, but we don't appreciate the political and sociological role salt has played in world history. Kurlansky has taken up the task and written a very readable and enjoyable history of the world and how salt has played a role. Salt taxes and control of the salt trade were more important for political and economic reasons than I realized. Countries rose and fell and filled their treasuries through salt. Salt was an instrumental player in Gandhi's independence movement in India. The gastronomic role is amply portrayed by quoting recipes and food writing throughout the ages. Salt is a mover as well as a shaker.<br />The book sometimes is hampered by the author's scope - he wants to focus on salt used for eating but has to open the door to other forms of salt used for gunpowder, and de-icing. These asides say &quot;well there is more but we're not going to touch that really,&quot; and limit the history portrayed in the book. He also spends a lot of time bringing the past alive, but once he treats the 20th century in the last part of the book, the story bogs down and goes a bit flat. It would have been nice to expand and look more at the sociological and economic impact the anti-sodium movement of the 20th century had upon the salt economy. Overall he seems to say that as modernization came into play, salt got less interesting, and that is reflected in the interest level of his writing.<br />Despite this, the book is very interesting look into something that we take for granted in our lives today.	2002-10-16
US	52536648	R3IJOVKUHW0BLP	0735612870	522416776	Microsoft ASP.Net Step by Step (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	An O.K. Teaching Tool	After reading both Visual Basic 6 Step by Step and Visual Basic.NET Step by Step, I had some high expectations for using ASP.NET to build upon the VB.NET instructions. Unfortunately, I found this book less useful. Part of this may lie in the fact that ASP.NET is a topic that lends itself less to Step-by-Step kind of teaching. After having read several books on ASP.NET, I have found some of the others to be easier to follow. I just found the lessons less useful, and sometimes the code never really went too far beyond the basics. While needing just the basics to learn, I wanted to extend the code a bit more.<br />That said, I did find parts of the book very worthwhile. The author does try to provide the range of options that some commands allow you. And I found several of his examples to be very helpful, enough so that I bookmarked them for specific reference. This books will serve as a good one to grab when I'm looking for some help on a specific topic, especially as I get rolling further into the language in solo use.<br />Not the greatest on the market, but strong, and useful as we move further into Microsoft's future with .NET.	2002-10-10
US	52536648	R13ZYEEOF4KRXP	0385720661	433769876	Biography of a Germ	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An enjoyable look at a small subject	Sometimes it's the simple books that help cut down the clutter and look at something in a manageable way. So often books about disease or germs become large dense tomes. Karlen has taken the time to look at a single germ, the one responsible for Lyme Disease, and looks at its past, present and potential future. Along the way he teaches you Biology 101 about germs in a simple and enjoyable manner. A simple book with a simple purpose, but one that shows us an aspect of the world around us we may not have thought about.	2002-10-05
US	52536648	R3E73FY1BGM3UP	073571262X	364973872	ASP.NET for Web Designers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good book to begin with learning ASP.NET	I was not as familiar with New Riders books when I picked this up. However, I have been pleasantly surprised. This book shoots for a new area of the computer book fields. It is akin to crossing \\"For Dummies\\" with a Que or SAMS technical book. The humor, irreverence and relaxed teaching tone is there, but with a surprising level of depth. Ladka knows his stuff and can translate it to the beginning user. His examples cover both VB.NET and C#, so you not only can see ASP.NET grow in your preferred development language, but you also can get a practical view of the similarities, differences and syntax that each language uses. Another plus if you are getting your feet wet in the .NET development arena. Each chapter the author introduces you to the concept, shows you some of the technical aspects and syntax .NET uses, and then rolls up the sleeves and shows you basic examples of the concept in action. I found myself bookmarking several sections to use for reference as development continues.<br />Who is this book's target audience? Someone who has some ASP background who is delving into ASP.NET. Someone looking for a chance to jump into some examples and see things in action to choose what you want to pursue in further depth. Most of the examples can be typed into live code should you wish, and downloadable code is available, though you have to search for it. There are so many examples, you are better off reading and following up with live versions of a few items that you wish to explore more. If you need more live handholding, try a \\"Step by Step\\" book, or possibly some of the excellent WROX books. Overall this is a very good book to start your journey with.	2002-09-26
US	52536648	R3I1NAH82QEZ2M	0380801493	784559757	Murder Shoots the Bull (Southern Sisters Mystery)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Poison, arson and Vulcan's butt	Anne George has produced a wonderful series of books with the sleuthing of a pair of sisters. Patricia Anne and Mary Alice could not be more different, yet at the same time display a strong sisterly bond. But what makes this book sparkle is George's ability to convey the joy of every day life. The writing is extremely accessible - the literary equivalent to a summer movie. The writing is full of rich details so you can practically smell the Birmingham air as you read. It is in these little details that enrich the characters and story - the huge statue of Vulcan that stands on a Birmingham mountain with his uncovered buns of steel is a vivid throwaway player who enriches the atmosphere. Her characters are believable - we all have neighbors like Patricia Anne, and if we are lucky (or not) like Mary Alice. There's a mystery here - the poisoning of a socialite that drives the story, but the sisters are drawn into figuring out what happened simply because they are there. The book sparkles with wit and many simply laugh out loud humor. The writing style is a relative to Sue Grafton's with both featuring a strong female investigator who narrates the story. Overall the book was like a visit from an old friend, and makes me want to delve into other of the sisters' mysteries.	2002-09-22
US	52536648	ROCB6VKEXVXDR	0471377430	771087746	The Secret Life of Dust: From the Cosmos to the Kitchen Counter, the Big Consequences of Little Things	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The little things mean so much	Dust. It's all around us in our daily lives. We brush it off the tabletop and sweep it with the broom. Holmes shows us that it's a lot more than that. It's the building blocks of the universe. It's a natural part of our lives - we each have our own individual dust clouds. Unlike Peanut's Pigpen, ours is usually not visible. Hannah Holmes has written a broad and surprisingly accessible book looking at the roles and dangers that dust plays in our lives. She is able to easily slide from the macro view of the universe to the micro view of dust mites without losing her audience. Dust rises from the most unexpected places - who would have though of the sea as a dust creator, yet spray allows the launching of salt particles into the air at a surprising rate. And penguins produce ammonia gas that condenses into small balls. Holmes writes, &quot;By accidentally flying through penguin-poo dust in the making, Hubert and friends had caught the magical transition of gas to particle.&quot;<br />You will walk away from this book hopefully not fearing, but respecting dust for its role in our, and the planet's life. Holmes shows us that even the little mundane subjects of day to day life, can have profound effects upon us all.	2002-09-22
US	52536648	R2CUOOQHCCSJEZ	078972572X	587866540	Special Edition Using Visual Basic.NET	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Clear and informative guide book	Special Edition Using... books are usually good, if not dense, reference materials for the computer programmer. As we try to get up to speed with the .NET platform, there are two kinds of books to look at - the step by step instructional books, and then the topical reference books. This book falls into the latter category - it is an excellent informative guide book to grab and refer to when trying to accomplish a task. You're not going to most likely try to read it cover to cover, but you will find yourself immersed in a chapter here and there to help clarify what you are trying to do. The authors take the time to spell out what is new in VB.NET as opposed to VB6 - and there is enough subtle changes to make your head spin. This book is indispensable in the job of moving to a new technology. This deserves a space on most programmer's shelves.	2002-09-15
US	52536648	RUMI84OJD6NSK	1861006195	748967541	Beginning ASP.NET Databases using VB.NET	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great introduction to a powerful topic	Many of us trying to get our hands around the new .net platform are hoping to use it for data work. Usually this is a part of an ASP.NET book, but is only one of the many topics covered. This book fills the need for looking directly at database work. The book lays layer upon layer building the code into more complete and complex applications. You get practical examples to show the different data functions, and the authors take the time to explore the different ways to approach tasks, depending on the type of database back end you are working with. Straightforward lessons in the no nonsense approach of WROX book help get you up to speed. And it's a great book to grab when you want to find an example of something you are trying. This book brings you up to speed faster than most ASP.Net books, at least as far as taking advantage of the data connections of an ASP page.	2002-09-15
US	52536648	R1CLXJNJURLSNK	0140296468	217254911	The New New Thing: A Silicon Valley Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Even more interesting after the tech bubble burst	When this book was written, Silicon Valley was the center of the universe, the tech company were the princes and venture capitalists were kings. And at the top of the pyramid was Jim Clark.<br />Other reviews will tell you the story told by the New New Thing. What I find most fascinating is reading this from a post tech bubble burst time frame. Jim Clark built his career being the right man in the right place at the right time. It is because of him that much of the outrageous stock prices for companies that have no product or profit came to be. At the time, the view was &quot;so what if the company has no real product or profits, it's going to be the new new thing so let's invest.&quot;  Now so many of these companies lie in ruin - either gobbled up or found wanting for more cash after the market constricted. We can finally stand back and look at where we were in in the last few years. It can be seen as a cautionary tale, for at the heart, the book shows the emperor had no clothes. Just a lot of brass balls, a good story and people willing to jump on board.<br />When this book came out, it was relevant for the technology business world we lived in. Now it is even more relevant to see how we got to where we were, even if we still can't fully explain why. A cautionary tale that all new economists should take to heart.	2002-09-15
US	52536648	R16SJ8BYHY42D9	1555835996	710233294	It's Not Mean If It's True: More Trials From My Queer Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Funny - Ford does it again!	Michael Thomas Ford gives us a window into his world and his mind in this collection of short essays on a variety of topics. Ford's take on the world, and especially the gay world, is simply hilarious - this is a great book to read while commuting with it's short chapters and humor that might just help you face the day with a smile. So funny because it's true is the refrain while reading - we can all see someone we know in his writing. Or we are like the people he's writing about, so we know we are not alone. He succinctly skewers gay pride history, gay cinema history and size queens with rapier wit pointed commentary. A scream of a book.	2002-08-29
US	52536648	R36JO4PK4A5J1C	0789723107	111838788	Don't Make Me Think! A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cuts through the clutter with practical advice	We've all see examples of good web design and of bad design. For a while it was everyone with a computer had a web site, so we were sick of the flashing doodads and the moving pictures. Now it's time to settle down to serious business.<br />Krug takes us through basic lessons on web design for usability in easy to digest and follow examples. Short chapters and extensive graphics of examples drive his point home in plain language. The book is not about the code - it's about what the user sees and how he or she navigates and operates. His lessons are no-nonsense and should be shouted from the highest mountain. Quick load, thought out arrangement of items, don't make the user think. His \\"secrets\\" are so obvious, they just get lost sometimes in the flash (and the Macromedia Flash).<br />Reading this book is an investment of a couple of hours that will help you look at web sites in a new light. If you have a web site you can't help but think about how your site stacks up to examples.  It doesn't hurt either that he so extensively uses Amazon as an example.	2002-08-29
US	52536648	R3DOLUDU3E287P	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting glimps into a new world	When at first blush you hear that this is a book about the making of a dictionary, you tend to be put off. If you can get past that initial reticence, you will be surprised, and rewarded with an interesting story. We take the dictionary for granted today, but someone had to start doing it, which did not happen until surprisingly recently in history. The fact that so much of one of the premier reference books in the English Language owes so much to an insane American Doctor just boggles the mind. The Sprightly paced, Winchester shows us the history of the OED without miring down as one would expect in a story of a reference book. It's a view into a piece of history that is relatively unknown to the general population, yet once you get into it, it is a fascinating tale.	2002-08-29
US	52536648	RL7DCDSWDU7RI	0060987634	405455238	The Simpsons Forever! A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family...Continued	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A bit thin, but a great continuation	I'm of two minds about this book. As a rabid Simpsons fan, I love the continuation and expansion of the work done in the original Simpsons Forever!. This book continues to give us the view of Season 9 and 10 with all the gags and references that this smart show has to offer. Plus it expands on work done in the earlier book by taking some sweeping 10 season view of recurring gags such as the chalkboard. It belongs on the shelf right next to the original, to be read and laughed at all the time. I'm certainly glad I didn't have to wait 8 more seasons for the second guide.<br />On the other hand, the fact that this only covers two seasons, as compared to the original eight, bothers the economical sie of me. While yes, there is some material that ties Season 9 and 10 to Seasons 1 - 8, I don't always know if it si worth the price. Were it not a continuation of a great first book, this would be grossly overpriced.<br />As it is, though, The Simpsons Forever!...Continued is a worthy successor and helps keep the Simpsons Mania going.	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R1ZPMC7J24TA2Z	1566913969	285168007	Road Trip USA: Cross-Country Adventures on America's Two-Lane Highways	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Get your motor running, head out on the highway	This book is a fantastic resource. Most guide books are arranged around a city or a state. But Jensen has built this book around the road. Dividing the country into a series of road trips, North - South, East- West, crisscrossing this country. Pick a route, and follow it in the book state to state to see what's near your route in terms of food, and interesting sites. Good for long or short road trips (as long as you are in the vicinity of the roads reviewed). It is such a relief from the more traditional guides. Copiously illustrated and made for bookmarking, this tome (and it is a surprisingly big book) has earned a place in my car when I need to just get away, or want to get there, but I'm willing to take the longer, but more interesting, road.	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R35WVGD3A0EA3C	0393020185	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	3	5	6	N	N	interesting but a bit scatter shot execution	Sykes brings together an interesting new way of examining our genetic heritage, especially from an European perspective. He sheds light on a study of genetics that I was not familiar with. The problem is that Sykes can't stay in a good scientific examination. Much of the book seems self promoting, and while he is a pioneer in much of this, it seemed that he built his credentials more on the media than on his academics. He brings his research to an interesting conclusion tracking genes back to seven original \\"mothers\\" in Europe. But then he tries to tell us the stories of these seven women, and things just fall apart. It is an abrupt shift from this scientific quest to the creation of fictional stories of the lives of these women. He could have served his cause better if he had stuck to fact instead of writing narrative conjecture.<br />Still, an interesting book and a fascinating look into one slice of the science of genetics.	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R36P88JEE1UB8U	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	We are all part of the web	So often cultural histories are written from the point of view of humans taking control of their world and shaping it as desired. But Pollen looks at some of our cultural history and turns it on its head, where we are but pawns to what nature and plants decide to do. We are all connected in a web of human needs and desires, with fauna's desire to survive and thrive. It may not be a &quot;plant's eye view&quot; but it makes them much more than passive inhabitants of the Earth.<br />Through a series of 4 essays, Pollen looks at how plants mesh with our needs (potato) and our desires (hemp) and other stops in between. What he does is to successfully, and in clear writing, examine the symbiotic relationship that inhabits our world. Of course I say that and the first thought in a lot of minds is a boring botany or biology lecture. This book is far from it - it is friendly and accessible. The author comes from the point of view of a participant, interlacing the observations with his own experiences as a gardener. It's an enjoyable read to take out into the back yard, kick back under a tree and let yourself go. It may make you look at the plants around you in a slightly different light.	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R3CQQ2B5G2L8BM	0060193484	225587361	The Simpsons : A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simpsons Trivia Nirvana - the early seasons	Simply the best show on television.<br />This book makes the perfect companion to the growing DVD release of the Simpsons. At heart, a simple episode guide for fans of the show, but it delves so much further. For a smart show like the Simpsons, so much is put into the small throwaway gags, or the cultural and cinematic references. This book pulls them all together for you. Indispensable to go over what you saw, and what you might have missed. Read sequentially to see the development of the show, or jump from episode to episode, splitting your sides laughing at the antics. For a show coming up on 300 episodes, there is enough detail and gags to fill a half dozen shows. Viva La Simpsons!	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R2VB5KSDL2JAGK	0425185710	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun go around, somewhat marred by the author's ego	After nearly 20 years, Dirk Pitt is a familiar character for escapist readers. Cussler's books of his exploits are the literary equivalent of a good popcorn movie. Just another good book to kick back and enjoy - no big themes, no important messages. It's fluff. But fluff with some substance - Cussler never fails to included an interesting take on history and as the &quot;What If.&quot;<br />Cussler tries this time to introduce some more weight to Pitt, giving him musings about still being single, and continuing to mourn loss of the love of his life. Somehow while this is not outrageous to explore, it does clunk along a bit.<br />The rest of the book is formula Cussler, but that's not a bad thing. He sets up a prologue situation that has very little to do with the main plot of the book, throws our heroes into a sequence of adventures where we are brought along for the fun, without the danger or worry of something dire really happening to them. And then, it's back to wrap up what was started in the prologue and tie ends together. The end.<br />One annoying trait, though, that continues here is Cussler's propensity to write himself into the story. Pitt and co. have far too often fortuitously run across Mr. Cussler at a very convenient moment where he can help give the little extra needed to save the day. Once was fun. Twice was indulgent. but beyond that, it's just annoying.<br />A work of great literature? No. But a good beach book.	2002-08-14
US	52536648	R372EN1LORGTSL	0679883568	103130562	Seuss-isms: Wise and Witty Prescriptions for Living from the Good Doctor (Life Favors(TM))	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Simple and wise, what the Dr. ordered	Dr. Seuss was a man who could stretch out a set of simple words to delight and entertain his audience. But at the same time, his books also held a deeper meaning on important issues: The Lorax and the Butter Battle Book come to mind.<br />This slim tome is full of little pieces of wisdom, in Seuss' own words and with his drawings. It's Suess-Lite, but perfect for when you just need a smile, or a breather. Sometimes the simplicity lets us look at our selves better and to see the simple truths in living. It is a perfect little gift for the graduate, or just to keep on your desk for when you need a smile, and a short breather to put life in perspective.	2002-07-20
US	52536648	R24YEZW6CCELET	0446524816	450054205	El Nio: Unlocking the Secrets of the Master Weather-Maker	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An historical storm	Warm wet winters, hot dry summers - calling cards of the weather pattern El Nino. How something so huge, impacting so many lives across the globe was not recognized truly until the past couple of decades is one of the points that Nash tries to make. After the first few chapters, looking at historical meteorological records and the understanding of El Nino, she continues on and places this weather maker in a larger historical, social and political context. How El Nino and La Nina patterns can affect disease spread, the life cycles of other animals and coral, and the growth and destruction of civilizations are topics for exploration. For El Nino truly defies the traditional way of thinking about climatology and pulls back the view to the global scale.<br />Despite being so focused on a weather maker, the book is fairly jargon free. You don't need to know you isobars from your relative humidity. Some basic science knowledge makes it easier to follow many of her points, but you are not lost in geek speak. I did find that often she would talk about glacial formations using words that she never defines, which makes it harder to make a mental picture, but these problems are few and far between. I walked away with a better understanding of what is going on, and understand the how far we have to go in truly understanding this climate controller. A must for anyone who watches the Weather Channel.	2002-07-20
US	52536648	R3TXEJ1IKZ7ZVH	1565847040	346166362	Dr. Seuss Goes to War: The World War II Editorial Cartoons of Theodor Seuss Geisel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another side of the talented Ted Geisel	To mention Dr. Seuss conjours up the images of the Cat in the Hat, the Sneeches and the Grinch. However, before the great Dr. became a staple of children's libraries everywhere, Ted Geisel was an artist - a cartoonist. Just as &quot;The Secret Art of Dr. Seuss&quot; shows the formation and talent of the whimsical artist, this book shows the formation of the political artist that was also Dr. Seuss. From a beginning of doing editorial cartoons at Dartmouth, Geisel moved on to dabble in his first few children's books. But with the advent of World War II, he found himself drawing cartoons for PM Magazine and others.<br />These cartoons, so strange because of their overt politics, show Geisel's ability to merge the whimsical and the serious. To pointedly make his statement, but to also find humor in doing so. No enemy is as scary when reduced to the punchline of a cartoon. What is strange to see, and this book shows so well, is the growth of a style that we would all come to know and love. How often after the war do creatures such as the stylized (non-interventionist) ostrich appear as the prototypical walking bird that inhabits the Seuss landscape? His cartoons though often targeted domestic problems as well as the axis leaders - the politics are broad sweeping.<br />A portfolio of these cartoons would be enough to enjoy for the arts sake, but Richard Minear takes the time to put the artwork in place, both in terms of where Geisel was in his life as where the country was in its strife. In this, the book goes beyond just a celebration of heretofore uncollected Seuss drawings, but as a glimps into the political homefront of World War II. A worthy addition to any Seuss-ophile's library, or anyone who wants to explore the political times of the late 30's and early 40's.	2002-07-20
US	52536648	R35G4QA5D05F34	1902852311	90574543	Some Kind of Love	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	More of the life of Jas Anderson	Jas Anderson, Dickson's anti-hero former Scottish police officer, returns for his third go around with Some Kind of Love. Dickson builds his world upon the previous stories in \\"Freeform\\" and \\"Banged Up\\" and continues the development of Jas. In some ways this is Banged Up, Part II - taking place a bit after the end of that book, building upon the relationship begun between Jas and former gay bashing cellmate Stevie. Now on the outside of prison, with the sadistic villain of Banged Up, Ian Dalgleish dispatched, setting the start of the new novel.<br />Dickson slowly builds his stew, allowing pieces to be added, and float around, and the characters to grow and continue to mix. Much of the first third of the novel is pretty much character development - the relationship between gay Jas and former gay-basher Stevie. There are a lot of threads dangled out there, and in good mystery writer fashion, Dickson slowly reveals more of the pattern as threads intersect. The time invested here pays off well, for as the book goes on, and rushes towards its climax, you begin to care very much about what happens to various characters. This is what sets the Jas Anderson novels apart with other very good mystery writers - the ability to create strong characters that you come to care about. I for one cannot wait for the next installment.<br />Again, as with all of Dickson's novels, you need to get into the lingo, written in street Scottish as it is. At first, it makes some of us foreigners have to work to get into the world, but I find that as I read it, I have to focus more on the dialog than in many other books, almost acting it out in my head. The end result is a greater appreciation of the writing that makes up a great story. A very enjoyable read, worth the time investment.	2002-07-15
US	52536648	R3BSZ8H6J4RWSV	0425182894	912786438	Gunman's Rhapsody	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Spencer Goes West	I love Parker's writing, for the crispness of it as well as the simply drawn yet powerful characters he builds. This is why the Spencer books are so great. Here Parker tries his hand at another genre - the western historic fiction. And at first he really pulls it off. But over time, Wyatt Erp morphs more into an old west version of Spencer. He sounds and acts like our favorite detective. And this is the problem with the book. After a while I expected more of a divergence from his other writings, yet found it less and less.<br />This is not to say that the book is bad. It's actually quite good, and would be refreshing if it were by another author. If you are not a huge Parker fan, then you are in for a real treat. The prose is concise, characters tight lipped and strong, and when there is action, it is crisp and fast paced. But it would have been nice if there was more of it. Parker's books are more about the characters than extensive plot. But for this genre, and the story he is writing, the actual action is small and far between.<br />A very good read, I just was expecting a bit more.	2002-07-12
US	52536648	R23LE3AVITBRX0	0743421876	994651887	The secret life of germs observations and lessons from a microbe hunter	Books	3	12	21	N	N	Interesting and scary but also flat and preachy	Unlike some of my fellow reviewers, I was not so impressed with Tierno's The Secret Life of Germs. While a lot of what he has to say is fascinating, and I learned a lot from his writing, I found his style to be off-putting. The author certainly seems to have the credentials to talk about his subject (and the media exposure as an expert to boot, as he repeatedly tells of his television appearances). And he does a very thorough job of showing the history of and the reach of germs in our world. And for the paranoid, he certainly gives enough credence that the clean world around us is just teeming with dangers.<br />But I found much of the book seemed to be written by not a germ adversary but a germ-aphobe. Tierno seems to go out of his way to show the simple things are deadly, citing X thousand of death from this microbe or that one. And how we must maintain vigilance in our daily life by washing constantly. If you believe his courses of action you would be constantly scrubbing your hands during the course of preparing dinner. While yes, there is unmistakable dangers our there to be careful of, Tierno seems to lack tradeoff in balancing the dangers with everyday life. He is also very fond of citing statistics - how many death are caused, and such, yet for someone with the background he has, the lack of a single source for his statements undercuts his arguments. No footnotes. No endnotes, No bibliography. Just his \\"Protective Response Strategy.\\" As an overview of germs in our world it is a good read. But as the wakeup call to arms that the author seems to want it to be, if falls flat.	2002-07-12
US	52536648	R3A6LHQYR03ACB	037550219X	694653507	Dave Barry Hits Below the Beltway: A Vicious and Unprovoked Attack on Our Most Cherished Political Institutions	Books	3	5	6	N	N	I'm not making this up - Pointed Satire!	I find Dave Barry hilarious. He seemed to have a purpose - lampooning the federal government - but unfortunately as the book goes on, it seems to run out of steam and he is finally forced to wedge in commentary on the 2000 election and south Florida in a manner that seems, well forced. Which is too bad considering that this was probably the genesis of the book itself. It almost feels like &quot;Well I've taken on the federal government which is a joke already so let's tell stories of the strangeness of Florida.&quot; Which is really too bad becuase he was on such a roll hitting Washington. Plus how many writers can pad out their book with references to zucchini? Valient effort that when it's on, it's great. When it's off, it's just sort of limping along there. Now granted, humor is in the eye of the reader, and you can't always expect hilarity from page 1 to the end, but I found myself going from &quot;laugh out loud and have my subway mates look at me strangely&quot; to &quot;yea, that's funny. Ha ha.&quot; Never fully disappointed, but after all is said and done, I found a feeling of unfulfillment.<br />Very fun but could have been a lot better.	2002-06-27
US	52536648	R2JW6EMH4V28GC	0465054676	34652609	Uncommon Grounds: The History Of Coffee And How It Transformed Our World	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not keeping me up at night, but a great history	A staple of our breakfast table, our breaks at work, after dinner, and for a pick me up all during the day coffee is something that we think about the cup in front of us, but rarely do we think of how we got here. Pendergast delves into this mix, taking us back to the coffee cradle of Ethopia and on up to the Starbucks wars of the present day. He has crafted a very readable and accessible story of the history of coffee, as an economic and social driving force. The reader is given a real overview of how this dark, sometimes bitter brew has woven itself into the fabric of our lives, from the match heated cups in the trenches of the World Wars to the lines forming outside your neighborhood coffee house today.<br />But Pendergast looks at both sides of the story - the consumers and the coffee companies, but also the suppliers and the lives of those who make their (meager) livelihood off of harvesting the coffee bean. He nicely contrasts the Americans up in arms because of coffee rising past $1 a pound, while that $1 is more than a day's wage for many of the coffee harvesters. Coffee does not just appear on the grocery shelf, or in our cup by magic, it takes many steps on teh way, and these have impact upon costs, and upon the lives of those doing the work.<br />While personally I think that the book slows down heavily in the final chapters, overall I found it kept me engaged, with broad topics broken down in short subjects helping to keep the focus and the players straight. Coffee has been the boon and the bane of society for the past few hundred years. I found that I also came away with a greater understanding of the types of coffee, and what to be looking for when I'm buying it to get a better quality. Arabica, Robusta, and others now mean something more to me, and that's the beauty of a book like this - the information you receive appears on so many levels. I tip my cup to Mr. Pendergast.	2002-06-23
US	52536648	R1CJB2RHMGS6DQ	0786881704	638957624	Schoolhouse Rock!: The Official Guide	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A chip off the block!	If you grew up in the 70's and 80's and were anywhere near Saturday morning cartoons, then you know Schoolhouse Rock. Many of us learned our times tables because of them. I can remember at least twice when the catchy songs about American History were caught in my head and helped me answer test questions. The lyrics may have been replaced by other facts, but I'm sure that the songs are stuck in your head somewhere. This book is a great companion to bring so much of it back with lyrics, pictures and trivia about all the episodes. It will bridge things until the DVD is released. All in all a ton of fun. Pull out the book, sing along and relive those cereal laden mornings in front of the TV. Oh yea!	2002-06-19
US	52536648	RIH9AG6UBT4GD	0805008942	362374757	Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies: A Complete Illustrated Guide to the Warner Bros. Cartoons	Books	4	9	9	N	N	If you love the Looney Tunes, here is your book	It's easy to sit back and watch the re-runs of Warner Brothers cartoons and just let them wash over us, but that would ignore all of the work that went into them. We would not get an appreciation of the sheer number of cartoons produced. Luckily Beck and Friedwald were obsessed enough to pull them all together in one volume. Going on a year by year basis, from Bosko cartoons of 1930 to the last gasps of 1969 (and the reawakening in the 80's) the authors provide a landmark reference showing the premiere date, the credits given in the openings, and a thorough synopsis of the action. But of course any reference like this would be an oddity if it was just a listing. But we are provided with two ways to find information - a title index showing the entry (all purpose for grabbing when watching that cartoon), and an index based upon appearances of 15 of the most popular characters. Want to find out when did Marvin the Martian appear? It's here. (1948 - Haredeveil Hare). Wonder how many cartoons starred Daffy Duck - count 'em up. (a whole lot) Just sitting back and reading synopses shows the breadth of jokes and settings that the artists were able to take advantage of. You can also see the repetition that occured when the writers fell into a rut. Just a great book to have on the shelf to pull down when you want and a great guilty pleasure!	2002-06-19
US	52536648	R2PG90S4695NJC	0452259932	642882566	Of Mice and Magic: A History of American Animated Cartoons, Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THE place to go to learn about animation history	So you are flipping through the channels one night and you come across reruns of an old black and white Looney Tunes cartoon. And it's good. So you want to learn more about these cartoons. Well here is the source for you. Maltin takes a very broad subject, both in terms of years, styles and players, and condenses it into easy to follow chapters. While much attention in animation has been paid to Disney and his animators, there were a lot more out there (and still are today) that strive to work alone, or who wove in and out of the Disney history. Very readable, Maltin takes us through the ups and downs of the major studios. Here are the tales of the origins of characters (how Bugs Bunny got his name due to Bugs Hardaway), how Disney imagined Fantasia as an ever evolving film. How we went from the rich frenetic animation of the 40's to the stilted minimalism of the 60's. In addition there is a reference of output from various studios to help trace the story. Abundently illustrated (though it could always use some more color) it helps connect the names, with the faces, with the characters.<br />Animation has always been looked down upon and the poor cousin of features. Yet they were an integral part of the movie experience years ago, and still see their media explored, and celebrated today. There is certainly enough to fill several competing cartoon channels on TV today. Often our first exposure is the afternoon, or Saturday morning cartoons. But these are only the latest in a noble line of work, that almost suffered a demise in the 70's, only to roar back strong as ever today. If you want to know more about animated cartoons, be sure to start here!	2002-06-18
US	52536648	R266WPN2UBTK61	0374526206	181499815	Chuck Amuck: The Life and Times of an Animated Cartoonist	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As Wile E. Coyote would say "Genius, pure genius"	The world lost an animation genius recently with the death of Chuck Jones. Luckily, there is a book like this that celebrates the animation genius he was. Arguably, Jones was the father of some of the best Warner Brothers cartoons ever made, including \\"Duck Amuck,\\" \\"Duck Dogers in the 24th and 1/2 Century,\\" and my personal favorite \\"What's Opera Doc?\\" He also is responsible for giving us such great pieces of pop culture as the original \\"How the Grinch Stole Christmas.\\"<br />Part autobiography, part instruction, part tribute, this book shows us the man behind the screen, or should I say behind the pencil? We often wonder where a genius comes from - Chuck seems to say from anywhere. His mark on the development of the cartoon is undeniable, and monumental. But just as you cannot appreciate art fully until you know about the painter, so it is with Chuck's cartoons. I have a greater appreciation for the work that goes into developing these 8 minute masterpieces. Yes, it's true that Jones gave us some of the clunkers in the 60's as the Warner Brothers studio (and the MGM studio) animation division gasped what seemed to be its last breath. But it's all the more amazing that Chuck could produce such works given what little he had to work with. The world would be poorer were it not for the gives Chuck has given us, including Wile E. Coyote (super genius!),and the Road Runner, Pepe Le Pew, Marvin the Martian and many others. His style was distinctive, his contributions monumental and behind it all, he was a fascinating and talented man. This book stands as a tribute to this genius now that he's no longer with us.	2002-06-18
US	52536648	R9TZS3YD4M9XY	0816038325	449048018	The Encyclopedia of Animated Cartoons	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fun for the fanatic and the casual viewer	This book truly shows the flip side of reference books - reference vs. trivia. But what a trove is collected here. Dive on in and find your answers. Wonder who voiced Space Ghost in the original series. Look here. But you can also flip through the pages and just let memories wash over you. I found so many shows that I didn't know I forgot about. And with today's lack of as many Saturday Morning cartoons if you are of the right age it will sweep you back to those bygone days in front of the tube. Even more so it is a great reference showing the sweep of animation - the Saturday morning shows, as well as Prime Time shows. The movies. The specials. It's not a book you read from cover to cover, but open up a page and see what it reminds you of. Come in and see how many Scooby Doo show there were (6 listed under S alone). There are titles, years, characters and voices and of course a general synopsis for each entry. Comprehensive? Maybe not but it's chock full of animation goodness to keep you smiling for a good long time.	2002-06-18
US	52536648	R2NU5GFCEA605H	0684865858	228469250	Look Away!: A History of the Confederate States of America	Books	3	12	16	N	N	A decent look at the civil war from the south	Some have already criticized this book as being biased and narrow focused. To some extent it is guilty. But this is one of the good books that looks at the Confederate States of America independently of the North. Davis makes clear his central thesis very early in the book - that slavery was the root of succession. But at the same time, he does a good job using primary sources from the South to demonstrate the conflicts and feelings of the people at the time. Davis illustrates the central problem with the CSA (and I think this colors his choice to focus on slavery so much) was the inherent conflict of control and interests between the States, and the states-rights proclaiming central government. He shows how the CSA constitution could explicitly only allow slave states into the Confederacy, while at the same time ostensibly leave that decision to the states. Davis takes a gloomy view of the succession undertaking; he pretty much considers it doomed from the start.<br />There were as many differing opinions as there were states and delegates to the CSA congress, and Davis finds the quotes and writings to illustrate the division. This division can be seen even today where the source of the Civil War is still argued. But this noble experiment could not stand. Ironically, had their greatest enemy Abraham Lincoln lived, the southern states might have been able to return to the union virtually scott-free. But with Lincoln's assassination and Johnson's rise to power, this was not to be.<br />One plus in this book is that the chapters where Davis gives a quick rendering of the military aspect of the civil war are some of the best summaries of the activities that I have read. So many books on the Civil War seem to either take the northern view as the focus, or romanticize the southern cause in all it's &quot;the south will rise again!&quot; nobility. Davis finds the third path, and though imperfect, shows things from the southern view, warts and all.	2002-06-10
US	52536648	R29ME47M7DMA5O	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting view of McCulture that strays	Schlosser's Fast Food Nation is an eye opening look at what America has become in terms of eating habits, and as a look at the McCulture that has been formed, it is a very good read. But after a while, it seems that the author wanted to write two books, and put them into one.  We start out with an overview of the rise of the fast food culture in America, showing the fascinating story of how we got to where we are in a short time. But then he strays to the burger (and more specifically McDonalds) culture of fast food. Here it is still interesting, talking about the darker side of fast food in terms of employment, and the effects on farmers with the rise of the french fry. But by the middle of the book, Schlosser is fancying himself the modern Upton Sinclair as he disects into the, well disgusting, world of meat production. What he writes is certainly eye opening and stomach churning. I know that I don't go to the store and look at ground beef the same way any more. But at this point it's Beef, Beef, Beef. All other fast foods are dropped by the wayside. There is no exploration of other companies in the fast food world really, nor is there any look at the way the companies interact. Instead of Fast Food Nation it becomes McDonalds Hamburger Nation. Finally he looks at some of the international impact, again focusing on McDonalds in the world, though he does wryly note that internationally Pizza Hut is often not thought of as American, and thus seems to avoid some Anti-American rioting that occurs.  He starts out strong, and while what he says is certainly relevant and interesting, he drops the ball of his original target as he goes along. A very interesting, if flawed, book.	2002-06-10
US	52536648	R3O789WMAABAKR	055356871X	560559589	The Hammer of God	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A decent afternoon read, but ultimately fairly hollow	Arthur C. Clarke takes off on one of the &quot;What If..&quot; postulations that are often used in fiction today. In this case he looks at &quot;What if there was a giant asteroid heading for Earth in the early twenty second century?&quot; The result is an interesting story that ultimately has very little substance to it. Considering the rash of movies and books on this topic, surprisingly little is spent on dealing with the reaction to the situation by people as a whole. The focus is on really one character, and the central plot serves to little change him at the end. More of the feelign seems to be &quot;well, we do what we can do and that's it.&quot; I dont' feel that the characters are any better or different people at the end. A bulk of the story is more of Clarke's predictions to future society in terms of social, political and theological changes. The themes are touched up on with the minimalist school of development. A central theme meditating on religion, religious changes and end times is introduced but sorely lacking in fuller utilization. The original souce of the book was an article for Time Magazine, and this feels like the 2nd draft of a growth of it into a novel - the pieces are there but they need to be fleshed out more. An enjoyable and quick read, but ultimately leaves you wishing for a bit more substance.	2002-05-22
US	52536648	R3297AKKHVNO9T	0380807319	38857560	Walking the Bible: A Journey by Land Through the Five Books of Moses	Books	5	23	24	N	N	An amazing journey - an insightful view	This is an amazing book. While I doubt any of us would have the opportunity (or the traveling companion) that Feiler had in his quest to review the Pentauch, we are richer for his trip. Launching from the premise that the Bible had roots in history and developing culture (if not exactly a fact by fact account), the travelers look to tread where the stories come from, and to read the portions of the first 5 books of the Bible that relate to that location. Thus they can take the land, which is forever written about and under conflict, and the word, which often gets more remote from us, and joins them back together to see what we can learn. The connection begins with the Tigris and Euphrates rivers and the fertile crescent giving birth to Genesis and the patriarchs, and continues through Israel, Egypt and Jordan until Feiler stands on the mountain top where Moses may have seen the promised land and then died.<br />In addition, there is an exploration of what the bible means today, and what it means to the people who live in the area where the stories take place. The five books of Moses are extremely important becuase they form the starting off point for Judiasm (and later Christianity) and Islam. Thus the area, and the book, have varying importance to a large amount of the world. But does a book written 2-3 thousand years ago still resonate today in the lands of desert and oasis? Feiler finds that it does, even more so than he expected. In the way of discovering a new nuance of our heritage - what is part of our collective cultural history.<br />The writing is easy going, insightful and fun. The author is able to draw out new visions and stories from one of the most written about areas of the world. I came away from the book with a much better and new understanding of the early stories of the Bible and look at their place in history in a new light. A great read, that teaches you without lecturing to you.	2002-05-22
US	52536648	R2FAN067W6G7T3	0316525405	554911079	One Nation: America Remembers September 11, 2001	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More powerful as time goes on	I picked this book up to read now, 9 months after the attacks of September 11th and found myself becoming choked up all over again. The photos are of course of the highest quality of composition and emotion, as you would expect from Life Magazine. The illustrated timeline brings the day back into focus, and now that time has given some distance, allows us to look anew at how the day unfolded. But of course, in any kind of tragedy, it is the human elements that have the most impact - and this book presents that excellently. Stories of heroism, tragedy, chance, determination and sadness brought tears to my eyes. The overwhelming shock of the events have worn off for the most part, but these stories remind us of what the day meant to people. The section of photographs of individuals against a stark white background drives home the smallest human element of an overwhelming tableau. The people focused upon are there for a reason, and even though just being there and taking part in the aftermath should be reason enough, most of the subjects have additional connections that ties them all together in a web of tragedy and redemption. This is a book to treasure and to use to show those that come after us what this day meant to America.	2002-05-15
US	52536648	RTKR2ZD7AUNGY	0964261006	312354096	Pope Fiction: Answers to 30 Myths & Misconceptions About the Papacy	Books	3	19	27	N	Y	Interesting, affirming and sometimes frustrating	I've not been particularly versed in the arguments between the papal detractors and the papal apologists, so this book was a good introduction to issues that arise in this argument. Madrid has done his research and often does a wonderful job of examining the bible, and how it relates directly to the papacy today. He takes pains to show how, even though the word Pope is never used in the Bible, the concept that began with Peter is valid through the ages.<br />At the same time, the book is often frustrating. Madrid charges his opponents with lies begot from splitting hairs and interpretations. But often to defend the Papacy, he must resort to the same splitting of hairs for his cause. Sometimes the counter arguments border on \\"well yes, it is true, but that misses the point which is...\\" In his final chapter on the role of Pius XII and the Jews in World War II, while he makes some very good points and brings up facts that I was not aware of, shows the shortcoming of this book. The charges and rebuttals are almost too well chosen and written, so when he refutes the myths, he keeps his scope so narrow on the text of the misconception that sometimes his writing addresses the specifics without looking at the general argument. While a gross simplification - some of his arguments hinge on interpretations that are reminiscent of Clinton's denial of a relationship with Monica Lewinsky - cutting on semantics.<br />Some of his rebuttals are extremely well written and certainly put to lie the charges as being false. But I wish he had kept to those, instead of some of the responses that required more narrow focus and verbal gymnastics. Still, and excellent resource on this topic.	2002-05-15
US	52536648	R3AGU1VHGUTIKF	0735613745	483721269	Microsoft Visual Basic .Net Step by Step (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Basics - you have to crawl before you run	Some have criticized Halvorson's book as being too basic, or not basic enough. The truth is that this book is really for either a) the new person who knows some programming and wants to get his or her feet wet in VB.Net, or b) someone who knows VB6 and wants to skim and see changes. It hits the highlights to get you off the ground. The value in it comes more from the programs provided that you can dissect than the instructions that come with the steps. The author takes the time to point out how .Net differs from version 6, including the changes, and removals between the versions. If you are a VB programmer already, this book is below you, except as I mentioned for skimming for changes quickly. But if you are looking to get a simple handle on the changes, or the new .net development platform at all, this gets your foot in the door. It gave me enough to start with and now I can springboard off of that into more detailed books. I'm not going to be writing huge applications right now, but I'm a step along the way. The book delivers on what it sets out to do.	2002-05-14
US	52536648	R3LOWB5TBTV10M	0743216962	72057203	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Personal Finance	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Personal Finance 101	The world of personal finance and investing has exploded, as witnessed by the growth of books on the subject. But for many people, the understanding of the difference between an IRA and the IRS is a bit hazy. That's what this book is for. It is not a deep analysis of how to invest. It is however a quick primer to bring you up to speed for the more detailed books. Issues are covered on a high level, but are meant to introduce the reader to what Personal Finance encompasses - banking, investing, buying a home, paying taxes. It is a springboard for starting to learn more, or to just grab when you're unsure what a convertable bond is compared to a zero coupon bond. Today it is taken too much for granted that people know what they need to in order to even start making financial decisions. This book is a good cheat sheet for those who just want to get a basic understanding.	2002-04-29
US	52536648	R2158S06DO5TSN	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Enjoyable, thought provoking but suffers the author's bias	Arthur C. Clarke has consistantly provided science fiction stories that are stories to make us think. The action is pulled along not so much by big events but the development of characters and relationships that we come to care about. This is no exception to this. But in it, Clarke weaves his story with large pieces of his own views on religion. In his story, we are transported to Thalassa, a new world - a carefully balanced Eden for some of the remains of mankind after the destruction of the Earth. Yet to balance this vision of Eden, he has removed all concepts of God, removed from the collected knowledge of Earth when we sent outselves out to the stars. Religion is unknown in Eden, and so much of the cultural foundations that we take for granted are now unknown, being so intertwined with religious thoughts. Instead, religion has been debunked, and man has become God, given the choice of who will survive, and who will perish in the end of the Earth. As well as sending out DNA to the stars, to \\"create\\" new humans on distant planets. Science seems to be God to Clarke, and in this he makes great strains to show how irrelevant it is and twists his story along to match it. Just as he showed in 3001, religion is illogical and the root of our suffering. Here the new planet thrives, is happy and successful (if not mentally stagnant) without religion. While I support his right to have his view, it sometimes feels as if he's building his stories to support it.<br />Otherwise, however, the book is extremely enjoyable - both a disheartening and hopeful look at the future, the end of one world, and the beginning of new ones for the human race. The central question of whethere the visitors on the Magellen spacecraft should or could stay or not is presented with balance, with reasons for both individuals and society as a whole should or should not just stay. What is a hallmark of Clarke is kept going here - the story is believable. That is Clarke's gift - to let us realistically see beyond our own time and place.see beyond our own time and place.	2002-04-29
US	52536648	R4UYK4EMHCRK8	0716794624	257892248	Tyrannosaurus Sue: The Extraordinary Saga of Largest, Most Fought Over T. Rex Ever Found	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Putting a price on the supposedly priceless	We have gotten so used to the idea of Indiana Jones and the adventures in discovery of the past, that it's almost less shocking to see the maneuverings that went into the saga of Sue, to date the most complete T-Rex found. Some would say that it was only a matter of time before the heavy hand of commerce would intersect with the science of paleontology. After all, everything is now for sale on the Internet, and Jurassic Park and sequels have shown that dinosaurs are hot.<br />Fiffer follows the 10 year saga of Sue, from discovery to final installation in the Field Museum in Chicago, liberally adding historic parallels in the history of fossil discovery and disbursement. Almost everyone in this story comes out painted with varying levels of guilt, greed and wrongdoing. Everyone, except really for Peter Larson, one of the founders of Sue, as well as co-founder (and namesake) Sue Hendrickson. Each of these characters get off lightly - possibly because their motives were fairly pure, or show the author's slant. Of course, in order to have a \\"little guy vs. government\\" story, you need a pure 'little guy.'<br />At heart, the story is of the intersection of the law, and the philosophical issues of \\"what is a fossil\\" and \\"who can own a fossil.\\" It is easier to read this, with the author's leaning against fossils in private collectors' hands, knowing the final disposition of the bones. The saga of Sue, the book shows, has opened the Pandora's Box of greater \\"ownership\\" and sale of fossils into private hands instead of the scientific community. But it is also the story of an unprecedented cooperation between a non-profit museum and corporate America to preserve our scientific heritage.<br />The book itself is extremely enjoyable, with enough lesson on dinosaurs and fossils to allow you to understand issues, without overloading the reader. A light visit into the world of the dinosaurs, and of museums, as well as a cautionary tale of government interventions. One fault I do have is for a book so dedicated to the magnificence of Sue's bones and the redesign of her stance to reflect more updated scientific thinking, there are no pictures to illustrate what the author is trying to describe. That oversight is a shame.have is for a book so dedicated to the magnificence of Sue's bones and the redesign of her stance to reflect more updated scientific thinking, there are no pictures to illustrate what the author is trying to describe. That oversight is a shame.	2002-04-29
US	52536648	R3VBLXRK763EHU	1884822754	794976483	Bridges: A History of the World's Most Famous and Important Spans	Books	5	10	10	N	N	So often we don't even realize what we're driving on	Every day we traverse bridges in our daily lives, scarcely to give them thought. Dupre pulls back the veil and brings highlight to these engineering feats. From the simple to the revolutionary, we are brought on a tour of bridges through time, and around the globe. The superlatives are here: the longest suspension bridge, highest, oldest. But it's not a book about the superlative; it's about what moves us forward in our quest for technology, and for our ability to move across space in a timely manner. It highlights those bridges that mean something to us: where the Romans said \\"let's make a permanent way of moving water.\\" Where politics came into play and tried to prevent bridges that we can't imagine not being there like the Golden Gate Bridge. Bridges become important to history such as the ones over the Rhine during the World War. And sometimes when we make mistakes and things don't work out like we planned - the most spectacular example being the Tacoma Narrows Bridge that lasted all of 4 months.<br />But as she shows in her book \\"Skyscrapers,\\" there is an intertwining of form and function, and where man built up in buildings, he builds out via bridges. The book's design even emphasizes - where Skyscrapers was an extremely tall and thin book, Bridges goes for width, to try and bring the spans into the range of the printed page. Yet so often, the task is not possible, and even on the wide pages the bridge disappears into the distance.<br />The book looks at the engineering involved, but does not dwell on it. Rather it celebrates how the improvement of engineering practices have been able to move man forward. A veritable love poem to something that we often take too much for granted.	2002-04-22
US	52536648	R29GL448ONGHL8	006095373X	207910478	In Siberia	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Depressing..yet fascinating	Colin Thurbron takes us through a journey into a new and old world. The journey through Siberia provides a snapshot into an area of the world that until recently was off limits to westerners. A world steeped in history with the clashes of cultures, the stench of conflict and specter of death. Siberia was the land where people were sent to die - exile, the gulags, religious schisms. A land where the government got what it paid for: free slave labor produced construction, such as railroad lines, that failed to last in the harsh thaw/freeze cycles of the region. In most people's minds it's a land of frozen cold.<br /><br />In this cold harshness, there is the new harshness of life after the breakup of the Soviet Union. While in the west we have hailed the new freedoms, the collapse of communism, the rebirth of capitalism as a warm new light on Russia, in Siberia this light is in cold eclipse. Collapse means a loss of ideals, poverty, unemployment and inflation. And it is in here that the book becomes a depressing read. Everywhere that Thubron went, eh found decay and disillusionment; a land steeped in history, yet where history had been built and erased as if a chalkboard by the ideologies in power. Stories of inhabitants carry less promise for the future than a resignation to decline and continued muddling through.<br />The landscape runs the gamut from beautiful to bleak, and this is reflected in the people that Thubron writes about. He does a decent job of describing where he is and the histories involved in sites he visits. The book reflects his research, and his knowledge of the subject - how he can bring alive the last days of the Romanovs in the Russian Revolution, and the people who still visit the site of their death where the renewal of freedom does not necessarily mean a renewal of hope for the monarchy. Or the church. Yet the church(s) cling to life even after the long night of communist rule.<br />One of my biggest problems with the book is that as the author moves westward, winter approaches, the landscape bleaker, the areas less populated. And the stories of the people parallel this - becoming bleaker and full of more despair. Settlements being slowly abandoned. Old ways dying. The book falls further into melancholy as it goes along. The redeeming bright spot for it is the author's continual ability to find the average person who, in the midst of poverty and despair, still find the need and ability to help him - to bring him into their lives, to share food and shelter without even knowing who he is. It is reading between the lines of the story that you can see the hope of a people that, hardened by their lives, and their land, still survive.or moves westward, winter approaches, the landscape bleaker, the areas less populated. And the stories of the people parallel this - becoming bleaker and full of more despair. Settlements being slowly abandoned. Old ways dying. The book falls further into melancholy as it goes along. The redeeming bright spot for it is the author's continual ability to find the average person who, in the midst of poverty and despair, still find the need and ability to help him - to bring him into their lives, to share food and shelter without even knowing who he is. It is reading between the lines of the story that you can see the hope of a people that, hardened by their lives, and their land, still survive.	2002-04-20
US	52536648	R17DUZG8MOA2CF	0786860375	337137827	The Disney That Never Was: The Stories and Art of Five Decades of Unproduced Animation	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Pull back the curtain and see what's behind	Disney is often considered to be the premiere house for animation. Yet in the course of creation, there will always be ideas that were rejected, or didn't gel, or just fell apart. Luckily, Disney kept everything - good, bad or unused, and created a bounty for the animation historian. This book allows a peek behind the creative process. We are familiar with what made it to the screen, but Solomon shows us what didn't make it. A combination of a history of Disney successess and failures, and a portfolio of hidden artwork, this book is a trove of Disney information that is usually overlooked. It is interesting, following the release of Fantasia 2000, to look back at actual work prepared for Walt's original idea of re-releasing Fantasia annually with different pieces, creating more than just a film, but an experience. Economics and logistics kept this from happening, and only 60 years later did a new attempt at this vision appear. There is so much more that did not make it, beause of money, lack of story, politics or more, and most of the parts rightfully finally get their day in the sun (some of the work should stay buried, but that's few and far between). A fascinating look at &quot;the rest of the story.&quot;	2002-04-10
US	52536648	R1GJZ9DEH0NC1X	0684869020	250808166	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A great crash course and quick reference	This guide is a wonderful book to give you an overview of money and investing and how it works, without all the financial theory seen in so many books. A practical guide of how to invest? No. But how can you make correct decisions without understanding what various types of bonds are, or how to read the charts of information available in the newspaper or on-line. Investing is another language, and this book is your primer. Read this to get an understanding of investing, and then move on to the advice books, using this one as a reference when things become confusing. A great introduction to a complicated and important topic.	2002-04-10
US	52536648	RSSOF6ZIX6ZPZ	1572318090	975612980	Microsoft Visual Basic  Professional 6.0 Step by Step (Step by Step Developer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great book to get up to speed with	I picked up this book to help fill in gaps in my knowledge and to go through what I had picked up in bits and pieces and learn it in a coherent fasion. This book has been great for that. The author takes the time in the early part of the book to walk you carefully through examples and let you work hands on, so that the lessons are reinforced instead of being talked to. Much of what he does builds upon the earlier lessons, so you learn something and then see it in action, with other components.<br />The main problem I have with the book comes in the last one-third of the book, where the author moves into more advanced topics such as using Active X controls, or the Windows API, and the tone moves from collaborative teaching to more of a lecture style. The examples get more complex, but the author does less to guide you through it in a serious coherent fashion. The book also shows its age when discussing Internet topics, showing how technology has barreled on forward enhancing and changing the development environment. But in his defense, if you are heavily working with Internet technologies, you are better off now looking at Visual Basic. Net than version 6.<br />I walked away with a lot better idea of what I was doing and how to accomplish programmatic goals. It is worth the time investment in the 24 lessons. (And don't worry about the estimated time cited on the first page of each lesson, they are all on the high end - the book moves more quickly than you expect.)	2002-04-10
US	52536648	R2SV8V5PLVD848	0393323137	575102119	Mauve: How One Man Invented a Color That Changed the World	Books	4	43	43	N	N	Color your world	Originally I was skeptical of a book about the origin of a color, but Mauve is so much more. It is the story of the creation of artificial colors, the industries that spawned from it, as well as birth of chemistry as a innovating science in the 19th century. The discoveries by William Perkins opened up what would be literally thousands of new colors over the years, as well as essential components of the perfume industry, flavorings industry and even the bleaching industry. Inspirational also because so much of this arose from literally castoff garbage - coal tar. In essence Perkins began a new wave of recycling. The heart of the story is less the discovery itself, but the ripples it set off that continue to today, leading to the \\"better living through chemistry.\\" Yet it also spotlights one of the lamentably forgotten pioneers in science who through a combination of curiosity, determination, foresight and luck found value in others castoff. Though it is classified as a biography, it is more of a sweeping view of history - the actual materials on Perkin's life pre and post mauve are almost incidental to what was discovered. Garfield helps shed light on the color revolution and spotlights something that we today often take for granted. It was nice to walk away from a book and realized that I really learned something.	2002-04-10
US	52536648	RFO8UU14DY7HJ	0786868139	384130626	The Snow Garden: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No one is pure, even in the snow	With a Density of Souls, I highly applauded the talent and potential that Christopher Rice showed as a writer, and then lamented the fall of the final 3rd of the book into a more hackneyed movie script. This time, he's gotten it right. I found it thoroughly engrossing so that I could not put the book down. His characters, while sometimes not fleshed out as much as one might like, all carry around layers of stories as to who they are. Set in a New England college during one winter, Rice takes the concept of using college, and a new beginning as a chance to reinvent ourselves to much higher levels.<br />The story is a mystery, where none of the characters are who they seem to be, and bounces between modern day, when an accident may have been murder, and twenty years ago, when another accident may also have really been murder. It is hard to talk about any of the characters without chancing revealing more than should be. The book looks at how we may run from what we've been through, and try to reinvent ourselves in response, we never fully recover or escape the past. It's a mystery with twists, turns, false paths and revenge, all tied up in a character study of the supposedly mundane day to day life in a college setting. A fantastic effort from Rice that has great potential both for a film adaption, and for a possible follow-up down the road.<br />Between his two books, Christopher Rice shows that he is a young writer of enormous potential on his own, and the Snow Garden should help put to rest some of the snide comments about riding on his mother's coattails. Christopher Rice is an author to watch.	2002-04-10
US	52536648	R2GMEE7QP11YMK	0596003021	479469118	.NET Framework Essentials (2nd Edition)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A Great Introduction, but too detailed for many readers	As anyone knows, the .NET framework is being touted as not only the next big thing but the merging of several technologies to create the web based revolution. Maybe it is. Maybe it isn't. I came into this book looking for a good overview of what .NET meant to me and what potential did it hold. I got that to some extent but had to really work for it.<br />The book is very good at giving information on the new framework. The problem is that I, and I am willing to bet many other readers, were looking for an authorative view of what .NET means and can do, rather than how it does it. It's as if I wanted to find out about the new class of car and what its features are and what it can do. Instead I am handed a concise mechanics manual that tries to explain the highlights of how things work under the hood.<br />I learned a lot, but I think I took away more from this book because I read some other materials first. Had I simply dived into this book, I would have been lost. This is not an &quot;introdutory&quot; book for most of us. For coders and developers, yes this will be helpful and essential - for them this is a very powerful book. For the &quot;rest&quot; of us - it's very informative if you are willing to wade through the details. Find something specific about .net you want to learn about, read up on that and THEN come to this book and get the details in order to build a full understanding of the technology.	2002-03-31
US	52536648	R3GU2HRZVDHDL9	0071379665	979053395	Security Transformation: Digital Defense Strategies to Protect your Company's Reputation and Market Share	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A good managerial overview	Security Transformation is an excellent book for a manager, \\"C\\" officer or other less technical readers. The authors take care to present the issues of digital security in an easy to read, non-jargon laden manner. And for the jargon that is put in the book, there is a glossary at the end to help keep everyone on the same page. This is the book you hand on to executives who just don't understand why security is important. It looks at the effect technology security has upon the ability to secure business and the ability to not be part of a larger problem, such as a Distributed Denial of Service attack.  The warnings are real, but are not played for sensationalism, cooly explaining what threats are out there and what they mean to \\"you.\\" I don't think I learned much I hadn't known already, but I did find a nice coherent package to introduce others to the risks, with significantly less amounts of techno-jargon or offputting technical details. A quick read and a good overview.	2002-03-31
US	52536648	R30DAWHDLBJ1WY	0071379665	979053395	Security Transformation: Digital Defense Strategies to Protect your Company's Reputation and Market Share	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A good managerial overview	Security Transformation is an excellent book for a manager, \\"C\\" officer or other less technical readers. The authors take care to present the issues of digital security in an easy to read, non-jargon laden manner. And for the jargon that is put in the book, there is a glossary at the end to help keep everyone on the same page. This is the book you hand on to executives who just don't understand why security is important. It looks at the effect technology security has upon the ability to secure business and the ability to not be part of a larger problem, such as a Distributed Denial of Service attack.  The warnings are real, but are not played for sensationalism, cooly explaining what threats are out there and what they mean to \\"you.\\" I don't think I learned much I hadn't known already, but I did find a nice coherent package to introduce others to the risks, with significantly less amounts of techno-jargon or offputting technical details. A quick read and a good overview.	2002-03-31
US	52536648	R5Q6415ZK69WS	0679434488	738807585	The Secret Art of Dr. Seuss	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Wonderful view of Seuss' &quot;other&quot; work	While few would contend at the genius Seuss put into his writing, with distinctive meter, use of words and rhyme, sometimes overlooked is the artwork that illustrated this strange world. Theodor Geisel was an accomplished illustrator. Unfortunately, most of what we saw of his work was only what was published in the books. This volume introdues you to a wider range of his work. There are not only his paintings, but his studies in 3-D of some of the whimsical cross-bred characters that were his hallmark. But there is also a sense of the adult audience in these - with jokes and puns aimed squarely above the kid level. For many of us, we delighted in Dr. Seuss as children, and delight with our children today, but this book shows us that Seuss was speaking to everyone, not just the kids, and we are richer for it. An impressive collection of artwork to make you smile.	2002-03-31
US	52536648	RGPYDTR7UEQPB	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	An interesting new way of looking at the world	Quinn has written a book that truly tries to &quot;think outside the box&quot; and look at where we as humans may have gotten &quot;off the track&quot; with nature. Many people consider this to be a life changing book. While good and though provoking, I hardly see it as life shattering. Every few years or so there is a new book that people speak reverantly of, as the one that really touched them. When I was in college, everyone was about Kahlil Gibran's &quot;Prophet.&quot; So it is not surprising to see how people are agog at this book. The idea is simple - a socratic dialog between the narrator and the mentor, who in this case happens to be a telepathic gorilla. This unusual pairing signals immediately that the normal framework that the reader may have expected is not going to happen. And indeed, it is a launching point to re-examining our place in the world from another perspective. Yes, it is eye opening and very powerful to look at the world from a different perspective. However, the assumption given is that this is a much better way of looking at the world than our current view. Maybe yes. Maybe no. That is where the life changing aspect takes hold.<br />As an exercise in thinking differently, and viewing the world from a new perspective, it is an excellent book. As the roadmap how to change and live our lives, well I just didn't see that. But evidently others do. It's all in your perspective.	2002-03-31
US	52536648	RQBPCN2LZY9L7	0764508660	170938761	ASP.NET For Dummies	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A great introduction!	Lately, I had become more and more interested in the .NET framework and the potential it help. Where I work, we do a lot of development of ASP pages at work so I was particularly curious what this new framework held for shops like ours. After plowing through a detailed book on the .NET Framework, I had a much better idea of how things work, but I really didn't know what it does. Then I ran across this book. This book was the perfect introduction I was looking for - it went step by step through things so that both the beginner, who may not have done as much ASP coding before, as well as the experienced user could see what was going on. Areas compare and contrast \\"classic ASP\\" vs. ASP.NET but there is no dwelling on it. Rather the focus is on showing you, coming in cold, what ASP.NET can mean, get your foot in the door with simple examples, and let you go out to the more technical books from there. It's a quick reference for trying to make the transition to a new system, and getting up to speed. Highly recommended, even for the experienced coder who wants to skim and see how implementations have changed (and yes, they are changed - hopefully for the better).<br />In addition, the companion CD is an invaluable tool in itself, with additional chapters including a very good quick overview of databases and such, as well as actual useful code for projects that lets you match up function with code in a real world situation beyond \\"Hello World.\\"  A great package deal.	2002-03-25
US	52536648	R1D0YOZR5GNOLH	0471410748	291903620	Be Hunted! 12 Secrets to Getting on the Headhunter's Radar Screen	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Good advice while getting your feet wet	In many ways this is kind of an off kilter book - Reynolds seems to want to be aiming at the executive, but in reality I think her book is applicable to just below that level, who are just starting out in higher managerial searches. Taken from that starting point, the book is a very good overview and advice book. Much of what she says is common sense, but sometimes it's nice to have it reiterated so that we don't forget it. As someone who is going to eventually be looking for new employment and to move on up, I found it in some ways reassuring to be led step by step through things. I don't believe I learned much new, there was certainly no &quot;ah ha!&quot; moments. But it did assure me that the path I've been looking at is correct, and what I know is valuable. She is not afraid to touch upon those areas a lot of people are uncomfortable with - such as compensation negotiation. Reading this book is like a comfortable session with a career counselor who's there to calm you down and help you through the next step. While currently job hunting has slowed a bit, it will rebound. And anything that helps us get a leg up on the competition is appreciated.	2002-03-21
US	52536648	RN0WRR18HW0NC	0762710535	6734694	Alaska Off the Beaten Path, 3rd: A Guide to Unique Places (Off the Beaten Path Series)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	An interesting supplimental guide	The Off the Beaten Path Alaska guide is almost the counter guide for the main off the shelf tour guides like Foders. Yes, a lot of it is akin to advertising, but it opens up some of the possible opportunities and can give you a starting off place to learn more. The book was useful for looking at in small pieces - the narrative is rather plodding and seemingly unorganized - at least it's hard to find things quickly in it. But at the same time, if you are looking at Alaska as that once in a lifetime visit, then it presents the opportunities that are out there, especially those not covered in as much detail in the mainstream guides. Sure, many of the things listed are way out of most of our budgets, but I found myself contemplating trying to find some alternatives to side trips that I hadn't thought about. And it shows that it's written by someone on knows and lives the area - the description of travel opportunities often fall more in travelogue than guide book realm. Personally, as someone who is looking at visiting Alaska and hoping to go above the Arctic Circle, I got some ideas and had my options partially laid out. I now know what I might want to explore as options. I would never make this my only guide book - but it is good for what it tries to do. I do wish the maps were better and the text and maps corresponded more readily. Peruse it before you go - it's for planning ahead, not referring to on the trip.	2002-03-21
US	52536648	R3Q5K4VZMEZMTU	156592682X	351960783	Malicious Mobile Code: Virus Protection for Windows	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great security overview	Keeping up with computer security is a full time job. Grimes has given a clear, precise primer of one aspect of computer security - viruses, trojans, worms - collectively known as malicious mobile code. The book is DOS/Windows centric, but this focus helps you see a) where the threats for the most part, and b) allows you to extend the types of threats into other operating systems. You are taken step by step through the development of malicious code and how and why they can work on some systems, but less effectively on others. The constant refrain of the book shows the author's philosophy: Use an up to date anti-virus product. But if somethign slips by, Grimes shows you ways to react, and lessen the impact if not to this once computer, but to the rest on the network. It is easily one of the most readable books I have encountered on the subject.<br />This book is an essential reference for any computer manager's toolkit. We can't stop the code writers from producing thier output, but we can work to lessen the impact they can have on us.	2002-03-17
US	52536648	R2VUH5GL35YA56	0871319268	630715022	Bragging Rights : A Season Inside the SEC, College Football's Toughest Conference	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Trip off the Beaten Path in Southern Fried Football	The author, and many others, will argue that the SEC is *the* conference for college football. It is a conference of strong rivalries and tough attitude. It's also, as Ernsberger looks at, a conference of athletes who happen to be students, rather than the collegiate student-athlete. He brings up the warts - problems with recruiting, low graduation rates, questionable ethics with athletic departments overseeing athlete tutoring. But these are more of a bookend to the story - a story of rivalry, of politics, of winning above everything else. This is where the heart of the book is, and where Ernsberger comes across as the privelaged observer, rather than someone with an axe to grind. He's not in awe of everything, but he's not out to rip back the veneer of college football either.<br />Arguably, the book does have it's leanings. Only about half the conference is really explored with many of the schools getting the short shrift and barely a mention. But if you have never been to a big SEC rivalry game, he tries to capture the mood both inside and outside the stadium. You see the lead up to the Auburn-Alabama game (though strangely, he never seems to refer to it by it's common moniker of the Iron Bowl), and the Cocktail Party (Georgia vs. Florida). One of the strengths of the book is that he spends time with all level of participants in this spectacle - the players themselves, the caching staff, the boosters, the administration, the fans and the alumni. The picture drawn shows that everyone is partially to blame for the state the conference is in.<br />As a passive spectator of the SEC especially after moving to Atlanta, Ernsberger drew together a lot of what swirls around into a coherent package. Everything you need to know? No. A damning expose? No. An interesting overview - yes. This is why you want to read the book.	2002-03-17
US	52536648	R382EBRE7CZZ6L	0684870673	849640122	Lies Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Fascinating if not Biased	Anyone who believes that history is not political has never heard the adage &quot;History belongs to the victors.&quot; It has been en vogue to attack traditional pictures of history - to try and show that our forefathers had not only flaws, but large ones. And that the country was built by much more than just the white Europeans. It is from this that Loewen takes on the staple of popular American history - the historical site and historical marker. Region by region he wends his way across the country lookign for lies to debunk. Sometimes the truth is fascinating - statues and markers put up to commemorate events that never really happend, or that take liberty with the historic truth. Of course history is relative, and what seemed to be the truth in the eyes of the marker's originators then often look foolishly naive now.<br />The problem seems to be that Loewen has an agenda - while he goes and pokes holes in many absurd sites, he also seems to be going out looking for places to support his attempts to revile some misguided attempts or look for omissions. In an era where historic rememberance has taken on a much wider political angle, some of the sites he focuses upon are ones he would want to take the old version and replace it with the way he sees it, in the name of &quot;truth.&quot; Yet event today, &quot;truth&quot; is relative - just look at the continued use of &quot;War of Northern Agression&quot; or &quot;Northern Incursion&quot; at sites in the south from the Civil War, even on markers put up in the 90's.<br />Still, the light he sheds on many of theses sites is fascinating, and tells a lot about where we have come from as a nation and how we viewed the past in different eras. Some of them are laughable. And some of them suffer from the sin of omission, because the truth is still painful, or controversial. Loewen is not afraid to say that the emperor has not clothes. It's just that sometimes he seems to be out trying to find an emperor to embarass in his quest for &quot;justice.&quot;  A fascinating read if you let some of the more biased passages wash over you, and see them as an alternative viewpoint.s quest for &quot;justice.&quot;  A fascinating read if you let some of the more biased passages wash over you, and see them as an alternative viewpoint.	2002-03-17
US	52536648	RD9BEQELFUPIN	0425184129	857420607	Big Trouble Movie Tie-In	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strap yourself in, you're going to laugh	While I've always been a fan of Dave Barry's columns and non-fiction books, I didn't know how this might translate into fiction. I shouldn't have worried. In one word - hilarious. With all the absurdity and observations of his non-fiction columns wrapped up in a rocket fast story that pulls you along. Yes, the plot is a bit thin and the characters not really developed, but this is not intended to be serious literature. You learn as much as you need to know about the inhabitants of the story (who are all drawn larger than life to begin with). But that's enough for the story, which goes from the sublime, to the silly, to the absurd, but never leaves you the reader behind. Throughout it, you can't help but laugh, and laugh, and laugh. Fun fluff. That's all. Hopefully the movie will be more of the same. I didn't want to think during Dave's book, and I didn't have to. I just kicked back and spend several hours with the crazy inhabitants of Barry's world.	2002-03-10
US	52536648	RRAE3TZSU0J4M	0316278424	373145889	The Last Amateurs: Playing for Glory and Honor in Division I College Basketball	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great way to look beyond the glitz of March Madness	As we enter into another March season of college basketball the glitz, the fever and the madness of Division I basketball becomes a spectacle that overshadows, or even drives, the problems of collegiate basketball, or as Feinstein once referred to it as \\"free farm teams for the NBA.\\" But strip away the trappings of TV and privelage, and you have the Patriot League of Division I basketball. This league is about as far removed from the big schools as can be, and still have a chance to play them. This is the story of a season in the life of players who play the game because they love it, not because it is going to be their future. Often times these are the players that the big school scouts have let pass, or the ones that choose smaller schools instead of the big basketball powerhouses so that they can play ball *and* get an education.<br />Feinstein doesn't sugar coat it - it's still Division I ball, which means a lot of work and injuries appear. But the Partiot league is smaller gyms, small crowds, long bus rides. It's people who want to be there. And it's still the excitement of the game, and how the standings go. You are swept up in a season from start to finish, wondering along with the players who is going to end up on top, and how will they do in the tournaments. While in order to bring you into the story you must be surrounded by the players and caches, often times the cast of characters can get Tolstoy-ish in scope and hard to keep straight. I almost need to read it again now to focus on who as well as the what.<br />Still, this is a great book to just enjoy the purity of sport. It is worth infinitely more than a dozen stories of the NBA pros lives, or the antics of those destined for the NBA draft. It's a great antidote to the madness of TV and reminds you why some of these guys are really there.	2002-03-10
US	52536648	R3OZ0SWBT657JK	081440491X	377351068	The 75 Greatest Management Decisions Ever Made: ...and 21 of the Worst	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A collection of management examples in a compact package	Anyone coming into this book looking for a deep case study of decisions will be disappointed. This book is more of an introductory survey course into business decisions made - the decision is cited, given a page of explination and the lessons to be derived are bulleted to end the section. Some of the decisions are a stretch - noting the posting of a reward for a runaway slave as the first example of advertising. It's as if he took a number of management textbooks, distilled them into one cliff notes version and presented it in themed chapters. Yet that is why the book is so informative - you are exposed to a wide variety of decisions with the meat extracted for quick digestions. Decisions are stripped from a lot of their extraneous outcomes, and focus is put on what makes them great (or worst in the appendix). It is a launching point - giving you examples and letting you think beyond the story. The reader is left to ponder many of the points brought up. It is to show you how seemingly little things (Microsoft retaining the right to license DOS to other companies) can build empires. Sit down, read and absorb the examples, and then try to apply them to your decisions.	2002-03-10
US	52536648	RNO4T1QH3F6C4	0393319407	797409052	The Diversity of Life (Questions of Science)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What's the big deal if some animals go extinct?	Wilson tells you, about how today we are in the 5th great contraction of species as many are going extinct all around us. But so many of the animals are interconnected like a tower of cards - remove one and the system may collapse. Citing concrete examples, Wilson demonstrates how this can be true on the small, and large scale. The diversity of animals and plants is important to all life, but also for the benefits to man that have yet to be discovered.<br />Wilson begins with a discussion of what is a species (of plant or animal) and how they diversify. While this can be at times very academic and dry, it forms the basis necessary for further discussion and exmaples. He shows how life migrates to the far reaches of the earth and how a \\"dead\\" island rarely stays dead for long. If anything, this gives the glimer of hope in his otherwise dire message - life has a way of surviving and growing - it may not be pretty, but it usually works. But that doesn't mean we can ignore the threats to our planet's life. For while many may not give a care about there being hundreds of species of ants (in fact they may want to reach for the RAID), nature cares, and each one has it's place and roll in the system. For many of us, our only exposure to animals may be in the back yard, or in a zoo, but there is so much more out there, and Wilson tries to show you this.<br />It's far too late to call this a wake up call. But suffice it to be another kick in the pants for fear of our future.	2002-02-22
US	52536648	R2R4X088FPTPN1	0312261780	33453175	Looking for Alaska	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Doubled my desire to visit Alaska	I've always wanted to travel to Alaska, but after reading Peter Jenkin's book, that desire is double. Looking for Alaska is a joy to read, and it balances nicely the written word and the photo, that so many other travelogues cannot. Too many travel books are pretty pictureless, such as Terra Incognita, so you are left only with the author's descriptions of things. Or you get the coffee table photographic book that tries to tell you everything in a set of photos. Jenkins vivid writing and unforgettable characters come alive, and what a joy to be able to turn the page and see what is being talked about.<br />But even if there were no photos the book would be superb. While no one can probably say that they &quot;understand Alaska,&quot; I feel that I know have a fresh and valid insight into what is essentially another country. One of the themes that runs through the book is how Alaska exerts a siren song upon visitors, resulting in many visitors never leaving. In many ways, you could almost hear the regrets in Jenkin's writing as he leaves the state after a year. The best of all is that for most of these people, they can't exactly say what kept them there, which just adds to the mystique of the state.<br />Jenkins takes the time to show us the width and bredth of the state, visiting most of the regions over the course of the year, north, south, east and west. And you are presented views through more than one person's eyes, as he uses some of his daughter's written recollections to further the narrative and to show the pull of the state on others in his family.<br />All in all, I put down the book and started looking at flights to Alaska. I want to go so badly now, and so will you.	2002-02-13
US	52536648	RFJNKLQM48Z55	086516472X	332790690	Cattus Petasatus: The Cat in the Hat in Latin (Latin Edition) (Latin and English Edition)	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A new spin on a classic	It's well known that Dr. Seuss wrote The Cat in the Hat in response to a challenge to write a children's book only using 40 basic vocabulary words. Now a new spin brings basic vocabulary to another language. Latin, often thought to be the \\"dead\\" language, is brought alive with something other than the so called \\"dead guys.\\" Here the reader can have a basis in the book, and verse, beforehand and see it and Latin anew in this translation. The translators do a marvelous job of mimicing the rhythm and meter of Seuss's charming tale. And with the Seuss drawings intact the connection between the text in Latin and the story is there to help you along. It makes Latin accessible and that's not a small feat. Read it aloud and you feel so very intelligent. Try this book - it's fun.	2002-02-04
US	52536648	R165BAXXO9ZYAQ	0671769316	168161455	New Roadside America: The Modern Traveler's Guide to the Wild and Wonderful World of America's Tourist	Books	5	8	8	N	N	America on and off the beaten path	There is so much more to America than those oft visited and photographed monuments, and this book helps you find it. The freaks, the fun, the truly bizarre of America is laid out for the traveller, and constantly updated on the accompanying web site. There are things that you never knew existed, and things you probably never wanted to know existed. But if you're looking to get off the beaten path, this book tells you where to go. The book could easily be twice as long, since so many of the attractions could use more description as the highlighted sites do. It's silly, but one of the most fun books I've read in a while. My copy is all dog-eared from corners folded down of places that are within a drive of me that I want to now visit. It helps you remember the fun and diversity of the US. As well as the wierdness.	2002-02-04
US	52536648	RYLXJ0SRK5XAO	0195142373	484682074	The Nothing that Is: A Natural History of Zero	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Why there is much ado about nothing	Picking up a book on the history of &quot;zero&quot; sounds on the surface to be boring, and that it would be a very thin book. But as Kaplan shows, zero is not just nothing, it is something. And this something has been very important through history. In this exploration of a number, you are treated to a bit of the history of math, numbers and culture. And contrary to what you might expect, these cannot really be unentangled. A good part of this story is a treatise on nothing, and how cultures viewed the possibility of nothingness colored how the culture would use or ignore the concept of zero. Just when you think that Kaplan is going to be bogged down in history or philosophy, he brings in the basics of math to tie his points together. Not only does the reader discover things he or she probably never knew about zero, but also about numbers and their development; how we went from MCMXVIII to 1998. Surprisingly accessable story that flows well and lets you walk away with a bit more understand of our world.	2002-02-04
US	52536648	R3MJXVE4AVDC93	0471253111	52389233	Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	It's dangerous out there!	Schneier is one of the front line people in computer security issues, and now he brings information to us all. This is a fairly accessible book, walking the reader through verious developed means of network and computer security and then punches holes in them. He shows how they can and sometimes don't work. But it's not all \\"this security is bad,\\" it's an object lesson in keeping vigilant. Too often we try to heap on security only to make things too complicated and provide openings for exploitation. Or we put in state of the art check points to scans retinas, fingerprints, voice prints, code words and door lock codes only to find that the back door was left open. The biggest threat is not always from outside - it's the insider, either being malicious, or clueless and falling to social engineering.<br />This is a very good introduction and primer on security. It is written for the person with some computer and technology knowledge, but not necessarily a CS major or an engineer. I highly recommend this if you are interested in getting your bearings and your feet wet in the issue of digital security. You can go onto \\"Hacking Exposed\\" to see some of these attacks in action, or any one of the more technical security guides.<br />Security is really up to all of us. Read this.	2002-01-23
US	52536648	R1HA7SE8D34WL1	1565927443	503249845	SQL In A Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Invaluable Reference Book	SQL in a Nutshell is not for those who don't know SQL. What it is, is a very good reference resource when you can't remember how the syntax goes. Breaking each command down to highlight the syntax differences, and in fact the workability of each command, between the basic relational databases. One interesting feature is to let the reader see how far some (Microsoft SQL Server) have deviated from the SQL standards. You're not going to (most likely) read it from cover to cover, rather you will jump to the section(s) that you want and try to absorb the information. Rarely does time pass when I do not find myself referring to this book, just to check to little details. Highly recommended.	2002-01-23
US	52536648	R1PME37BLKPSJ9	1565927680	167277565	Securing Windows NT/2000 Servers for the Internet: A Checklist for System Administrators	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An important resource	As network security becomes more and more important, it's nice to see something very specific to Windows NT/2000. Yes, this is a book for specific architecture, but actually would be a very good resource if you are moving into the Windows area especially from an UNIX background. What you take away more than anything else from the book is that the only way to be really secure is to close almost everything, and that's what the author shows. Their setup is an ideal world - a server dedicated to just being secure with some services, and you are shown step by step what is good to have on and what is not.<br />It is important more so because it gives you a reference point to learn more and try to close holes that you can. There are often a number of services and potential entrance points that are left open by default, or may be open, but you are not using them. So close 'em! You may not be 100% secure then, but 50% secure is better than open and flapping to the digital world.<br />The book is the kind you skim from cover to cover, then go back and read what you want to know more about, and return to it again and again as reference. It has been invaluable to my knowledge and has given me starting off points to pursue specific areas of security. I hope the book is updated when .NET starts to really spread out. Until then, this helps point us to where we can put up more defense. Knowledge is your best tool to fight insecurity, and this is an excellent tool in your kit.	2002-01-23
US	52536648	R1F3371J2SGR8D	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beyond the Swinging Doors	Tony Bourdain takes us behind the scenes both of his life, and of the life of a restaurant kitchen. It's rip-roaring fun and a wild ride, where simultaneously you are treated to &quot;If this guy who has been such a screw up can make it, so can I&quot; feelings tempered by Tony's &quot;I may be a screw up but it takes a lot to be a chef and you may not have it&quot; caveats. One can just imagine sitting around a bar, throwing back beers while he tells stories of life on the line. He's the cool friend who always seems to be doing something interesting. I enjoyed the book from start to finish.<br />If there is one shortcoming for the average reader of the book, it is that it reads just as if you were sitting in a late night chef hangout bar and Tony's telling stories over brews. It's written for the insider, or at least assumes some level of knowledge of food preparation and finer cooking. He's unapologetic in his opening, explaining that he writes it in the rough language and argot of the kitchen. And it is this casual tone that helps make the book more enjoyable. But for those of us who who may not appreciate some of the argot, it takes away a layer of the story. A glossary would be helpful, but not necessary. It certainly did not keep me from being engrossed in his writing. Also, not being exposed to the world of New York restauranting, some of the restaurant name dropping (name use really) means zip. That, however, really is not a shortcoming of the author, just something the reader has to accept.<br />Food for thought. In other words, a book you can sink your teeth into.	2002-01-22
US	52536648	RM1N3AWJB3VA6	0664224199	999679637	The Gospel According to The Simpsons:  The Spiritual Life of the World's Most Animated Family	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Another reason this is the best show on Television	Too often Television is dismissed as a light souffle, with no real core or message, except for those occasional &quot;inspirational&quot; series, or the occastional message TV movie. Animation is even more dismissed as just some drawings, and the juvenile joys of Saturday morning. But Pinsky goes further and delves below first impressions to show that an extremely strong message of religion underlies many episodes of the Simpsons. Certainly it underlies more than most other  shows on, or produced, without a religious bend to it. The world of Springfield is not perfect - people fall, religion is questioned and mocked, but it is also explained, highlighted and the diversity is pointed out, even if it is in a backhanded humorous way. Pinsky goes through a number of episodes and provides concrete examples of positive (and sometimes negative) images that are really there. We are human, and thus apt to make mistakes, or falter in our faith - and the Simpsons are the same. But theirs is a world filled with Christians, Jews, Hindu all exist (humorously) side by side, in a reoccouring way. Find another show on TV that brings such a plethora of beliefs into the story on a regular basis, as opposed to that &quot;very special episode.&quot;<br />Fun. Telling. Eye opening. This book is all that. It's a good read, and the perfect thing to share with that cranky neighbor who hates all television.	2002-01-22
US	52536648	R1BGGQYYZQEXWB	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Scary stuff	At first I was skeptical of Preston's work, coming after the non-fiction thriller The Hot Zone. But he has taken the thinking to the next level, and imagined how things could progress. His scenario is kept rooted in reality, both in terms of how it comes about and how the course of action goes. The story keeps an even tone, never flying off into hysterics or creating the doomsday scenario. Rather, we are shown a scary \\"what if?\\" that is all too possible; a terror made even more real after the anthrax letters scare. Well researched and plotted the story compels you forward. If there is a weakness, it is in the characters. They are pretty uniformly throwaways. You never really care that much about the characters, especially considering that they are dancing on the edge of death through the whole story. They are just there, so the germs are really the most fleshed out character. I would not mind seeing a sequel picking up off of what was learned and the next crisis, but I wouldn't care if the (surviving) characters were back, or it was a new batch.	2002-01-22
US	52536648	R3RIT4XKR7B95	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Reads like a thriller, but it's real life	Now the authors are riding the wave of topicality following the anthrax letters in October 2001, but the truth is that their book would be frightening at any time. The authors have played off each other's strengths and come up with a book that addressess the political, scientific, and historic context of germs as a weapon of mass destruction. It is scary to hear what the Soviet Union and Russia, and Iraq have been doing in this area, and how we react. If it was possible I'd like to have seen more about other countries besides Russia and Iraq. What is really frightening is the description of the Gulf War debates and preparations; or rather the lack of perparation by the American government. And there is no real reason to think it's much different today. Both the specter and the dangerous lack of perparation leaves us, and quite frankly most countries, in a very precarious position.<br />Much of the writing comes across almost as a Clancy thriller - with double and triple talking and hiding the facts. And even if you grant some literary license to the story, the kernal at the center is extremely frightening. Often times the book comes out as an 'Us vs. Them' posturing, and I for one don't believe that the american government has been clean on germ research, but this might help the story and what they are trying to say - they do not seem to have an axe to grind over this issue -rather they want to tell us what's going on.<br />And it is a very scary situation.	2002-01-22
US	52536648	R3EYG6KKPBBHR8	087584877X	859871675	Blown to Bits: How the New Economics of Information Transforms Strategy	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Technology Changes the Landscape	Many times we hear the axiom &quot;Adapt or Die&quot; thrown around in business books. But Evans and Wurster show that this has never been more true than now under the Internet Economy. Some of their observations are called into contemplation with the contration of the economy, but the heart is still applicable today. The authors show how the changes of the &quot;new economy&quot; affect all levels of the supply chain and the decisions that businesses must make to keep profitable. They give a graph and a concept to the tradeoff of reach vs richness that we may understand but not always see in our business.<br />A must read for anyone who is running a business today, and wants to expand or at least keep their profitablity.	2001-10-31
US	52536648	R1YW2FJ8CKACTA	0375753389	781694995	Terra Incognita: Travels in Antarctica	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A fascinating, though flawed, view of Antarctica	A very good, but not great view.<br />I'll admit right up front that I've always wanted to go to Antarctica and this book helped get me a chance to vicariously see it. And it's certainly unique to see it from a woman's perspective. As others have pointed out, it is the fantasy vacation - very few of us could just hop around and freely wander the continent as one would do in Europe. But maybe that's what makes it all the more fun. She obviously did her research before going and that pays off handsomely in her accounts. I felt that I learned about the history of the continent as well as a view of trekking there. So often the books about places like Antarctica have to be adventures stories full of hardship and danger, so it's refreshing to be able to have someone look at it from a different eye.<br />Some of her work is offputting though. She often seemed to be upset that she was treated like an outsider, but then she flits into a camp, goes and does her thing and often sounds like she didn't really kill herself to integrate too. My biggest complaint however is the lack of maps. She talks far too much about places which we as the reader have no idea where they are. So often when reading I would flip to the small maps provided and try to imagine where she is now. Since most of us are newbies when it comes to the area, more points of reference were necessary. Well not necessary but would have improved enjoyment of the adventure.<br />That said, however, the book is a refreshing journey into an unknown area, where you can learn as much about yourself as you do the continent. Sit back in front of a warm fire and dream of the south. It's a fascinating journey.	2001-10-17
US	52536648	R2PSA5RTWB2S8C	0072127481	593641401	Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets & Solutions, Second Edition (Hacking Exposed)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Must Have for any administrator's bookshelf	I came into this book with little knowledge of hacking methods, outside of what I had read in some other books. Boy were my eyes opened!  Not only did I find out how simple things I take for granted and use often can be used maliciously, but how much is out there designed to do harm to me. Some quibble that this is tantamount to a &quot;how to&quot; guide for wannabe hackers, but it's important for someone like me to know the tools and be able to act preemptively against potential hackers. The book is exhaustive and greatly epxanded from the first edition. Thought I skipped a lot of things that weren't directly related to my systems or experiences, I have found myself grabbing the book again and again to look something up, or to explore how something works so I can try to avoid it.<br />This book, as well as the recent worms and viruses, should serve as a wake up call for anyone who deals with networked computers, from the system administrator to the home user with an exposed system on a cable modem. Probably one of the scariest books I've read in a long time. It may not keep you reading like Stephen King, but it's just as scary and proves, what you don't know *CAN* hurt you.	2001-10-16
US	52536648	RBZXOSMNCVW7	0394800168	328733059	Green Eggs and Ham	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fun for All Ages!	What can you say about a classic? Well part of the joy is rediscovering this fun book as an adult, too. In fact, I've takend this book with friends to nights out at bars, and every time as we start to read it aloud and pass it around (a good sobriety test too) others come over and join in. It's true. In the end everyone loves Green Eggs and Ham.	2001-10-16
US	52536648	R2R7FORUIXYTLK	0060653469	17476479	Finding Your Religion: When the Faith You Grew Up With Has Lost Its Meaning	Books	5	5	5	N	N	There is not one single path, and maybe that's for the best	Today so many are strugglign to find who they are, and where they fit into the larger spiritual picture. Many people wish to be connected with God but don't know how. They were shown one way when they were growing up, but that doesn't necessarily mean that it continues to be the right one as we grow. It's imporant that Rev. McLennan subtitles his book &quot;When the Faith You Grew Up with Has Lost Its Meaning.&quot; Because this is the real thrust of the book - finding your way back.<br />Many people may have a problem with this approach. Far too many people in the world believe that &quot;my way is the only way,&quot; - that's the basic tenant of most world religions. But for many of us, we get to a point where we question where we are or where we are going. And that is where the book begins. Scotty uses real life examples of people he's worked with to help bring the point into better clarity. It's not so much his story as the story of many people, and what they have found to be right for them. As he talks about, there are many paths up the mountain, and you need to find your own way to the top.<br />This book is for the person who is looking for some guidance, not a roadmap. Some will be put off by his non-judgmental approach but for those of us who are looking for a place to start, this is an excellent way to open the door, and start the journey.	2001-10-15
US	52536648	R2DDFD03P0FO4G	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A fun read, but occasionally just full of complaints	Bryson's book is full of fun observations, though some are a bit dated, taking place 15 years ago. But he turns a cynical eye on the american highways and byways and is not afraid to tell it like he see it. Having lived in England for years, yet having grown up in the midwest, he brings a certain inside-outsider view on things. But as other reviewers have pointed out, he can get a bit cranky. Part of it, yes, can be attributed to the fact that the country of ourse is so vast, and what we are used to in our area may be very different from other areas and lifestyles - witness the differences between cities and the Montana / Dakotas that he writes about.<br />I'm a bit disappointed also that a lot of his writing is not about what he saw or how it made him feel but rather was &quot;I saw A, then drove to B&quot; and so on. Still, there were many times when he put observations together and made me laugh out loud. I guess part of my feelings is that the book was uneven. He writes of trying to find the Sequoia tree that you can drive through, and upon figuring that it was in northern rather than central California, he just turns it into another whine and complaint. He was let down from perception not meshing with reality, but he really had no one to blame for this, hence he just is pissy.<br />Overall - Light. Frothy. Enjoyable reading definitely. A good chance for those of us who are in one area to see under the veneer of the rest of the country.	2001-10-15
US	52536648	R28U3DT5576HM8	0609602330	27895627	Isaac's Storm : A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	1	1	N	N	We've come so far - or have we?	Isaac Cline was in many ways the right man at the wrong place at the wrong time. His story is not just about the great Galveston Hurricane a century ago. It's about the birth of the weather service. Now we take the weather service and predictions for granted (and often revile them for mistakes) but this book shows how imporant information is for building the big picture. Conflicts with Caribbean stations politically come into play and tanish what should by all rights be an apolitical operation.<br />You are taken into Galveston and almost can see the city and the people there. While we have seen disasters and storms on television, the book gives you an almost &quot;you are there&quot; quality as you see it unfold, bringing death and destruction in the path and forever changing an American city. Yet for all the subtext of &quot;they didn't see what was gunning for them&quot; are we really much better off 100 years later? We still can't fully predict where storms will come ashore, relying on best guesses. At least we can warn those in the potential path, and prevent devistation on this scale again, but we really are not much further along in knowing what's going to happen beyond now.	2001-10-15
US	52536648	R1K3QQTLG3Y0PG	0201433362	105366762	SQL Queries for Mere Mortals(R): A Hands-On Guide to Data Manipulation in SQL	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An Invaluable Resource	I sat down with this book as I tried to bring myself up to speed on working with database design and operation. After reading the &quot;companion&quot; Database Design for Mere Mortals, I tackled SQL Queries for Mere Mortals. While some of the beginning was redundant, it popped me into buiding SQL queries with a ton of examples and hands on exercises. Slowly building your knowledge and allowing you to see how the pieces can stand alone or interlock in the syntax, you are given more and more specific examples to help understand the concept.<br />Is it exhaustive? No.  Is it a quick reference? Not really. What it is though is a good reference piece when I'm trying to remember how do write sytnax for a specific query, showing me a real life example, instead of a list of just possible uses. Many references simply give you the generic terms built into one example statement like &quot;Outer Join Table1, Table2 on Field1 [Order by]....&quot; Instead, this book shows you using databases you are introduced to so you see the syntax in action. Since I don't use SQL every day, it's nice to go here to jump start my brain after some time also. A great book for someone getting into database queries, or who works with them occasionally and needs a guide.	2001-10-11
US	52536648	R1SZ1CQG36HUMN	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not a comic book but a great work that peters out	Chabon starts out his novel strongly, writing about escapism, the Golem, and creativity. The story and characters are strong, until the final part. I could really appreciate the work and creative process for the creation of the comic books, and felt what was driving these characters. And I loved how Chabon arcs pieces in different parts together - how represed homosexual desires led to expression in other forms. But with the infal return of Josef, things start to get hazy. I'm not sure if it was &quot;the character wouldn't act that way&quot; or we had no real ide what the character would do, but things started to ring false.<br />To give Chabon credit, I believe that he was trying to arc in larger themes on Jewishness and heritage with World War II as a background, but I don't believe he ever tied them up properly, or at least not so that I could follow. It's too bad, because I relly wanted to see where the characters moved, but once he gets to the 50's, they don't grow or develop any more. There was such promise, and it's held through most of the book, but the falling of the last part keeps it only in 4 stars. 3 1/2 more like it. (I was that disappointed). ...	2001-10-11
US	52536648	R3T1GDTOSU222A	0425180883	22156232	Iron Chef: The Official Book	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Just plain fun	Who knew that a simple but different cookign show could lead to such a phenomenon? At first glance, this book seems to be catered only to the fanatic, with battle by battle listings, and restaurant information on some of the chefs. But it is so much more - maybe not quite a mean, but much more than a hors d'oeuvre for the reader.<br />By the time Iron Chef arrived on our shores, it was already a phenomenon in Japan, so we missed a lot of the start. But this gives us a chance to look into the making of a cult hit, from getting chefs to appear on the show initially, to the genesis of food rising through the floor. And for those of us who (through uncaring cable companies) came to the show late, an introduction to the original chefs who existed in the infamy of the show's legend.<br />One nice thing is that the book, while analyzing the win/loss ratio and stats for each chef, it does not list the victors in the battles, only the contestants, the secret ingredient and the judges. The outcome is left to us to find out, which is good since the Food Network is about to start running &quot;new&quot; shows unseen in the US.<br />With William Shatner poised to do a domestic version of this show, it is wonderful to have the chance to get more aquatinted with the (probably far superior) original.<br />Allez cuisine!	2001-09-23
US	52536648	R2FA01WN21EQVJ	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	3	10	19	N	N	A Thought Provoking Overview	Carroll steps up to the plate with a very ambitious project - to look inside ourselves and especially the Catholic Church and see where the roots of anti-semitism lay. It's obvious from the start that he feels that the Church has not done enough to atone, or even really recognize, its own role in treating the Jews through history, of course culimnating in Carroll's starting point - the Holocaust. While much has been written of late about the Church and the Holocaust (The Catholic Church's official apology which falls far short of taking responsibility, the examination of &quot;Hitler's Pope&quot;) Carroll takes us all the way back to the beginning, in the catecombs where the newly formed Christians tried to differentiate themselves from the Jews. Sometimes Carroll's writing style is a bit roundabout (instead of a fully linear history, he tries to tie many of the moments back to one region of Europe and his experiences there after World War II), but he does keep the story flowing.<br />It is obvious a lot of thought has gone into the narrative to try and find the continuous thread of a story. I found several of his points very observant and brought a new perspective to history. His talk about how Jews were treated as 2nd class citizens and thus were pushed into limited roles as merchants and money lenders served as a self perpetuating cycle to increase the hatred of the Jews themselves may seem obvious but they are incredibly important for pulling the story together and help you look at things anew. He obviously wanted to go further on the issue of religion and anti-semitism especially after Luther's reformation. Again and again, he talks about how rabidly anti-semetic Martin Luther was, and how this affect the Protestant movement tenants, going so far as to helping lay some of the social groundwork for the Holocaust in Germany. Yet he does not follow down this path too far so not to go afield of his review of the Catholic Church and the Jews. And here is where he has some problems with the book.<br />Had Carroll stuck to Christianity and the Jews in History, it would have been a good and thorough book. But rather he is building a case for further reformation in the Catholic Church. The entire book is a springboard for him to justify the convening of another Vatican Council (Vatican III). this last part detracts from the book as a whole and causes a strangle of his topic to be more narrowly defined. It turns what is an important and informative social/religious history into a &quot;Look how bad things have been - we need to rectify it!&quot; social change call to arms.some problems with the book.<BR>Had Carroll stuck to Christianity and the Jews in History, it would have been a good and thorough book. But rather he is building a case for further reformation in the Catholic Church. The entire book is a springboard for him to justify the convening of another Vatican Council (Vatican III). this last part detracts from the book as a whole and causes a strangle of his topic to be more narrowly defined. It turns what is an important and informative social/religious history into a &quot;Look how bad things have been - we need to rectify it!&quot; social change call to arms.	2001-08-29
US	52536648	R2WR01FBIN169Z	1555835929	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprising Fun	After having read Picano's \\"Like People In History,\\" I was very interested in seeing what his followup would be like. Not being as well versed in [this type of] literature, I know that a good chunk of the insider notes that were part of the story went past my head, but it did not affect my enjoyment. The book starts out as a straightforward story, but soon digresses into a multilayered story viewing people and events from several sets of different eyes amongst a group of friends/lovers/writers. Of course, as in most good literature, nothing is really as it seems, from the characters that are met along the journey to the narrator himself. Not all is great - some of the surrounding storylines involving the university and closeted students try to flesh things out but never really have their chance to gell into something useful. Not a book for someone who is just looking to pick up some light reading - unless your idea of light reading is talk about cataloging archives and the creative process. But through it all you have a good tale of love and how it fits into these men's lives. I thoroughly enjoyed it.	2001-08-28
US	52536648	R1JSJ5URH7RZ8M	0066620694	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: The Revolutionary National Bestseller That Changed The Way We Do Business	Books	3	39	40	N	N	Hindsight is 20/20	The Innovator's Dilemma presents the idea that even if you do everything right, you can still be wrong if you don't see what's coming. unfortunately, that all depends on what you can see. In this case Christensen's hindsight is 20/20 and he can say &quot;Of course they didn't see it coming.&quot; The problem is applying this to modern business. That said, it does present a very interesting way of looking at disruptive technology changes, and how sometimes you just aren't in a position to do anything unless you scrap everything and go from there. Much of his case relies on the hard drive industry, which he has some good quantitative data to work with. At the same time, it is some of his other examples, with backhoes, and steel mills that can illustrate his concept to a greater extent. Part of this is because while computer componants is a fast moving field, it is these more lumbering machine parts area that scream &quot;steady as it goes.&quot; Thus his thesis is stronger. It is almost too bad that the newest version is only updated and with a new chapter. Much of his computer hard drive case is only through 1996 - a lifetime ago in terms of technology changes. I would have been fascinated to see him revisit his data and see what it shows. Granted, that would be a complete rewrite of his book, but something that is so groundbreaking as this requires more thorough updating. Overall it is a very good and though provoking book that makes you think. Will it help you catch the next wave and survive the disruption? I am not sure I can say I took that away with me.	2001-08-28
US	52536648	R2BD38XNZ6J0RF	0375401768	114627155	Time Lord : Sir Sandford Fleming and the Creation of Standard Time	Books	2	7	7	N	N	A good article, not a book	I too came into Blaise's Tim Lord with the outstanding book Longitude on my mind. While Blaise made some very good points to set the situation up, his failure to realy follow through is disappointing. The author has taken what was at heart a very good article and stretched it out into a thin book. Unfortunately, something had to suffer. It is obvious that the author is impressed by Sanford Fleming, but his fondness is for the whole man's accomplishments, not just Standard Time. So as a result we are treated to a lot of forshadowing of Fleming's role with the trans-pacific cable, but of course since it does not relate to the Standard Time issue, it is left hanging. Some of his observations about time were very interesting, and helped set the whole story in context very well. But then he would go off ruminating about the aesthetics of time, or try to set the whole time issue in the context of Victorian changes and Sherlock Holmes, which was just fluff. It didn't say much. It read like a school child trying to puff up his report so it matches the teacher's minimum requirements. Maybe I'm being harsh because I misread Blaise's thesis, but it seemed that he spent more time on time than on society and the effects of time standardization. The conference itself, setting time zones and the prime meridian is almost anticlimactic in it's place. I came away learning about why we have 24 time zones, why the Prime Meridian is in Greenwich, and that the railroads set their own time for a good part of the 1800's. Other than that, I took very little form this book, and very little about who Sanford Fleming was, outside of someone who missed a train and did something about it. This book could have been so much more.	2001-08-27
US	52536648	R2LTRP9VE2VQRU	0786886463	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Two books in one, and unfortunately not in the good way	First Part: 4.5 Stars / Last Part: 1.5 stars I started reading A Density of Souls and found myelf drawn very quickly into the book, enjoying the characters and the twists and turns that tied them together. Christopher continually applied layer upon layer of these characters - not too thick but enough that you were seeing new facets every time they walked into the room. Very well written, very compelling. I found myslef having to put down the book for a moment several times as things came along that I did not expect. And while the edges were often hazy, the pieces continued to fit together. And then the book turns south. It's almost as if Rice suddenly attached another version of the book to this one - the hoary, overly dramatic Hollywood script. As a hurricaine approaches (supposedly to mirror the growing storm of the dramatic life of our characters) it just falls apart. The &quot;climax&quot; made me think that maybe Rice had been obsessively watching Cape Fear recently - the only thing missing was a soundtrack of appropriately dramatic movie music to accompany you while you read. While I can see what he was trying to say and do with his end, it was such crap. And the little twist &quot;revelation&quot; at the end was unnecessary and just added a layer of skeeviness where it was not needed or appropriate. Rice has geat potential, as the first part showed. However, unfortunately, he can't keep that tone going. Hopefully the next book will find his ability to bring about a satisfactory ending.	2001-08-24
US	52536648	R2B56DJTVMD1CK	187374157X	158909390	Still Waters	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Another Good Read	Jack Dickson's books are like a visit from an old friend. You don't really notice it but suddenly you're caught and pulled into the writing. It's not Shakespeare, but it doesn't try to be. It tries to be a good read. And it succeeds. Still Waters is a departure from his Jas Anderson books and treads more into the romance story genre. The main plot is light and frothy, full of good old fashioned sex and romance. And sex. The subplots are souffle like also. But the heart of the novel really is about the heart - finding what we are lacking and what (and who) is really underneath our noses. The juxtaposition of what we see, and what we want or blieve we see, with the eyes, and what we truly can see with the heart. Tossing together men, mayhem, crime and the Loch Ness Monster into a heady mix you receive an enjoyable trip that leaves you smiling on the last page.	2001-08-17
US	52536648	R1AE0QDNLMBBK6	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	1	11	18	N	N	A Heartbreaking Work of Stagging Self Indulgant Crap	After hearing so much priase for this book I eagerly looked forward to reading it. Boy was I wrong. There's a fine line between fresh writing and just poor writing that appears fresh, and I fear that this book falls into the latter category. The author is evidently full of a lot of hurt and is trying to exorcise some of it through his writing. The net effect is the whole book is one long whine of how the world 'owes him' just because he has suffered loss. The introduction and the &quot;Mistakes We Knew We were Making&quot; are jokey and try to sound &quot;aren't we cool?&quot; and instead just serve to be boring. There are elements of interesting story here that are just not developed - the story of the Might magazine arc is good, and should have been fleshed out more. I really wished that there was more to this book, but it's all someone trying to be the voice of a generation while having very little to say.	2001-06-28
US	52536648	R3KPC7QL1PR5SX	0140195335	329719069	Sacred Origins of Profound Things: The Stories Behind the Rites and Rituals of the World's Religions (Compass)	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	A Bit All Over the Map, but Still Fun	As an incurable trivia nut, this book helped delve into areas that are normally avoided. There is a lot of fascinating information and the author does a great job of looking across more than just Christianity to includee Judiasm and Islam, emphasizing the common roots of all three. Every so often I would come across one part and find myself saying &quot;wow, I never knew that.&quot; Soemtimes, well you have to take the author's word on things; I would find his explination reasonable just not what I thought to be true. My vocabulary expanded as I finally learned what a number of things are called. It is a good book to peruse in bursts - reading a bit here, then putting it down to return a day or two later. A welcome counterpoint to the more dense or philosophical writings about religion.	2001-06-28
US	52536648	RQUY0FUOKTY1B	0345381769	245902509	The Best Little Boy in the World: The 25th Anniversary Edition of the Classic Memoir	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Dated, but still relevant	I read this book about 10 years ago while struggling with my own sexual identity and found it helpful to see others going through the same thing. I re-read it recently and found how much more I could relate to it now, then  I could then. Some of the story is a bit dated now, showing gay life and  the closet in the late 60's and early 70's when society had a different  view of homosexuality and it's openness. Also, I found the author to be a  bit more self-critical than I would like - maybe it's the liberal use of  the pejorative &quot;faggot&quot; which today can be used within the gay  community much like the &quot;n-word&quot; in the black community, but at  the time of writing was still the major insult and put down.<br />That said,  much of his struggles, both internal and external, are still very relevant.  It gives a good view into the head of someone who has to go through  realization, and acceptance of who they are, and their role in relation to  those they love. It's a very real and truthful account, not full of  reminiscent rosiness, but of reality. While the author never suffered major  setbacks due to his seuxal identity, he always planned for the worst, and  that is good to see and lends relevance to today, where despite best  wishes, setbacks and more do happen as we all come out.<br />The book is even  more interesting when followd up by the sequel &quot;The Best Little Boy In  The World Grows Up&quot; where in the first chapters, Tobias returns to his  book 15 years later, removes a lot of the veils of secrecy (he described  Harvard, not Yale as in the book, etc.) and where he has gone in the years  since. The pair of books make a very good 'Then and Now' pair.	2000-05-11
US	52536648	R2UM2RUWGW2II6	1902852044	355406066	Banged Up	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	A good followup	A sign of a good book is that you wonder what happens to the characters after the book ends. That's what keeps a series running. Hopefully, that will be the case with Jack Dickson's ex-police officer Jas Anderson.<br />Picking up some time after the events in Freeform, the book looks at  some of the outcomes and consequences of the action and decisions made  there. Jas is still the anti-hero, but you wonder how much he has learned  from his prior experiences. By the end, though, you're hoping to hear more  from this character.<br />The writing is solid, though it features more  dialog and Glasgowian dialect than Freeform, which can make the book a  tougher read for those from outside the area. But if you give it time, the  dialect is not impenetrable and comes more easily as you go along. And just  when you are riding along the story, Dickson can come out of left field and  toss something anew into the mix.<br />The writing is crisp and the  storytelling is good, with some passion thrown into the mix. It is one of  those books that comes your way through recommendation of a friend, so give  it a try and if you like it, pass the knowledge along to others.	2000-01-24
US	52536648	R108CTJTQVP84O	0854492577	959381252	Freeform	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A good read that pulls you along	Jack Dickson has crafted a fine example of the detective story in the noir genre, with a gay angle to it. The gay aspect of the book is important, but it does not overwhelm the story - it's a good detective knovel first, but  with a twist (and several good randy scenes). It grabs you by the lapels of  your leather jacket and pulls you relentlessly along to bring you to a  conclusion that is both unexpected, and at the same time pointed to  throughout the book.<br />The dialect can make it slow going at first (at  least for not non Glasgow native) but if you take time to sound out the  words at first, the dialog becomes easier and easier to read. (it also  helps if you think of Groundskeeper Willie from the Simpsons when readin  dialog). A book not easily found in the bookstores, this is certainly worth  the read.	1999-09-21
US	52536648	R1BYI4HC5C971J	0352332433	342827087	Dark Rider (Idol Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun hot time which happens to be well written	So often the &quot;erotica&quot; genre is marked by bad writing and jumps between sex scenes. This, however, is much more literate with extensive bridges between (well written) panting scenes. And the story keeps you  going, pulled along to see where the story goes, what the secret is, and  what happens to the characters.<br />If you want to expand yourself out of  the run of the mill, definitely check this out. It makes me want to read  more of the books by Jack Gordon, which others have reviewed favorably.	1999-09-02
US	52536648	R1NQOY82EBQUQZ	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	4	30	32	N	N	A Good View of a Darker Side of the Bible	Overall, the book needed a subtitle.<br />I picked up the book expecting an overview about Satan in biblical history - his story and how he came to be where he is viewed today. Instead, I got a view of &quot;satan&quot; as  encompassing demonization in the Bible. It was a pleasant surprise to find  this though. The book does an excellent job of putting the writings of the  bible into a context where the language is used in order to demonize  enemies depending on when the particular piece of the bible was written. I  now look at the bible when I'm reading some of the more darker passages  with a new eye on what the author was trying to say in subtext as well as  on the surface.<br />In addition, I received an overview in social history  around the time of the bible books were written. The book is written fairly  cleanly and kept me going through a long storm delay at the airport and  some extended flights for Christmas. The bible is not all happiness and  love - read the book and see if you learn something new.	1999-01-03
US	52536648	RQ1G5MRBJL01Q	087584801X	71649736	Unleashing the Killer App: Digital Strategies for Market Dominance	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Decent introduction but nothing new	I jumped at this book with high hopes. Overall, it's a good introduction for the manager who is not fully versed in the ideas of electronic commerce or the idea that the digital age requires a reorganization of your business thinking. But with few exceptions, the authors do not say much more than can be found in various articles in current business journals. The advantage is that this book pulls many of these ideas into one package. Many of the examples were good to bring the concepts home but I would have liked to see a little more. It takes a lot to get out of the traditional selling mindset yet this books proves you can, albeit with the results still too recent to be measured. A good introduction companion to flesh out ground covered in books like &quot;On-Line Profits : A Manager's Guide to Electronic Commerce.&quot;	1998-08-04
