US	52538650	RAH07KJXYBEL4	0375411437	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The unequalled biography	Pepys is lucky to have Claire Tomalin as his biographer. She is objective but sympathetic, thoughtful, analytic, and writes with an easy, fluid style. At times she lets Pepys speak for himself, through excerpts from his diary and letters, while at other times she recounts events in a seamless narrative fashion that, from reading the diary alone, would be more opaque and even somewhat choppy. In other words, she fills in the gaps, explaining who's who and providing background information about selected people and events that Pepys naturally felt no need to describe.  <br /> <br />Pepys led a colorful life, which Tomalin does her best to illuminate. The core of her book is, of course, the years 1660-1669, during which he wrote his famously candid diary. Given that he also left behind volumes of letters in the more than 30 years more that he lived, it's a bit surprising that she doesn't present more information from those letters. Without the rich detail of the diary, the second half of his life is presented in a more perfunctory manner, including his three arrests and one brief imprisonment in the Tower. Her quotes from the diary are more sparse than they might have been, too. I assume she was willing to let the diary speak for itself -- and the interested reader who has not read the diary would be well advised to do so, because its rewards are only hinted at in this biography.  <br /> <br />Tomalin made another assumption in writing her book, namely, that the reader would have at least a passing familiarity with English history, particularly the Restoration era. Many events are not fully explained, such as the reasons for the war with the Dutch, or indeed how warfare was declared, conducted, and concluded in the 17th century, which might have been helpful. And she is unable to elucidate exactly what Pepys did at the office all day and often into the night, although his contributions to improving the Navy are adequately sketched. It's curious that, once she has covered the Great Fire of 1666, she doesn't make a single reference to the rebuilding of London (aside from one very slight allusion), although reconstruction surely was a significant part of the background of everyday life for the ten years it took the city to restore itself. The diary contains a number of references. (For a full account of the disaster and recovery, see Adrian Tinniswood's By Permission of Heaven: The True Story of the Great Fire of London.)  <br /> <br />Tomalin sticks closely to the man himself, his career and personal life. As every biographer has a right to do, she favors those aspects that most interest her: the arc of his rise from near-poverty to wealth and influence; the ups and downs of his marriage to a wife he loves but never bothers to name in the diary; his personal honesty and disclosure of his own flaws, particularly his willingness to take bribes and his wandering eye; his observations of the licentious court of Charles II; the continuing influence of a Puritan upbringing and education on his worldly career; his friendships and enmities; the things that brought him pleasure, such as books and music and chasing women, and the things that made him anxious, such as the possible exposure of his shadier dealings and the problems with his eyesight that eventually forced him to abandon the diary; and his unflagging zest for life and experience. For those who choose to read Richard Le Gallienne's admirable but bowdlerized abridgment of the diary, which is one-eighth the length of the original, Tomalin's biography fills in some gaps and also provides information about persons named in Le Gallienne's edition, which, frustratingly, contains no notes at all. <br /> <br />Even if you haven't read the diary, Tomalin's biography of Samuel Pepys stands alone as an intimate portrait of an intelligent, curious, flawed human being and the tumultuous times he lived in.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-13
US	52538650	R64CEXA3GG0KL	0375726578	736155299	Our Lady of the Forest	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fools of faith	Like other reviewers, I too found this exceedingly grim tale tough going. I stuck with it for the pleasure of the writing, which is independent of the subject matter and which is why I give this novel four stars. Guterson puts words together beautifully. His narrative flows like water and his insight into several characters' personalities feels authentic. I understood Tom Cross even while despising him (though his guilt and self-hatred partially redeem him). Ditto venal Carolyn Greer and the hollow priest, Don Collins. I don't have to like characters in order to enjoy a story, but it's curious and a risky choice on Guterson's part that there is not one appealing person in the book. Everyone is either miserable, stupid, vicious, or weak, or a combination of these and other negative traits. Their sex acts are repulsive and hope is delusional. Even Ann, the young visionary, comes across as a deeply damaged psyche of barely average intelligence, easily discredited by the Catholic church investigator who arrives on the scene. Ann's stupidity is proved when she keeps by her side the mockingly atheistic and manipulative Carolyn, a common thief, apparently simply because she is too passive to send Carolyn away. Perhaps this is true to a certain kind of aimless, needy personality, but it effectively removes Ann from the heart of the book. Her visions are never center stage, but then they are not the text of Guterson's theme. The attraction of human frailty and need toward a supernatural one-stop solution to problems, a literal deus ex machina, along with the complications that ensue is closer to what he is about. Who cares how pilgrims really talk? In this work of fiction they talk the way the author makes them talk. To me, it rang as believably as the commercial atmosphere that surrounds the growing throng of visitors to the apparition site, a reality that goes back to the earliest Catholic pilgrimage sites in Europe. Ultimately, the dark, dripping-wet forest where much ofthe story occurs is an appropriate setting for these depressing goings-on.	2004-09-02
US	52538650	R259NKKJODTAH5	0393317706	276874417	After Hannibal	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Colorful, uneven terrain	Unsworth is always a gifted writer, even with a story that seems to alternately tighten and lose its focus, as here, rather than sharpening steadily toward a climax that ties everything together, as his best novels do. Its flaws notwithstanding, this Umbrian set-piece is an entertaining read, with some well-developed characters, especially the lawyer, Mancini; the unscrupulous British contractor, Blemish; and the Chapmans, whose marital compromises are exposed during the course of the dispute with their unpleasant peasant neighbors. The other characters - the anguished German, the morose cuckolded professor, the nave and art-mad American retirees, the gay Italian betrayed by his lover - function more as local color. As realistically detailed as their personalities are, they are not particularly relevant to the plot, such as it is. Not that they need to be, in a book like this, which is as much a collection of character sketches as an account of a specific human conflict. If you accept the novel on those terms, it's easier to enjoy. Reading it, I wondered if Unsworth hadn't collated and embroidered mental notes about some of his real Umbrian neighbors into these pages. The greedy peasant family, the Checcheti, who instigate the dispute over the road they all share, are for me the one real disappointment. Seen from a distance, they never come into focus enough to be interesting. They are never in the same room with us, as it were. That may well be true to the Chapman's perspective on them, however, as the Chechetti are presented almost exclusively in relation to their British neighbors. At the end, I felt that I did understand many of the other characters. Mancini, the Perugian lawyer more interested in the art of litigation than in justice, nicely represents the \\"furbo\\" (cunning) aspect of the Italian personality. Blemish, the book's buffoon, is believable as a committed cheat who is morally offended when others try to cheat him. (His loving and lusty relationship with his generously fleshed wife provides the book's only comic element.) The fatuous, self-satisfied Harold Chapman is neatly described as someone who \\"was given to the counting of blessings, which in practice meant the listing of assets.\\" I cheered the far more sensitive Cecilia Chapman's radical life-choice at the end of the novel. This would be a good book to read on holiday at the beach or in the mountains. But don't take it to Italy when you go. Bring your Blue Guide and your phrase book instead, and get to know the country and its inhabitants a little. I promise you'll meet far friendlier people than inhabit this fictionalized Umbria.	2004-04-28
US	52538650	R3UYDQ8QYJXSCG	0575004509	920336567	The Hide	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intelligent psychological thriller	One step forward, two steps back for the haplessly intertwining lives in this absorbing novel. Alternating sections by the narrators create a nice rhythm between two very different kinds of innocence. Simon, the etiolated upper-crust neurotic whose widowed sister owns the estate on which the story takes place, is innocent in the sense that he has removed himself from human intercourse, preferring a life of passive, though acute, observation that prevents him from acquiring sophistication or social graces. Though educated, he is so out of touch with human society that he practices what he will say before speaking, consciously uses hand gestures to simulate a liveliness he does not possess, and is easily nonplussed by others. He literally is most at ease alone in a hole underground. Josiah, the nave and slow-witted young gardener, is innocent in that he lacks the ability to discern motive or character in others and is inexperienced in the ways of the world. He is completely taken in by Mortimer, a slightly older man with an authoritative presence and an impressive-sounding vocabulary, who has a knack for restating Josh's simple sentiments so that Josh feels he has been revealed to himself. He is too guileless to see that Mortimer is a total cynic whose bloodless disdain for other people enables him to manipulate Josh's hero-worship. Enter Audrey, Simon's lonely sister, who has amateur acting ambitions, and Marion, Audrey's poor young relation who lives on the estate. When both women fall for the beautiful Josh, the stage is set for Simon's own act of manipulation to begin a chain of events that wreak disastrous results. Unsworth masterfully creates voices for his two narrators -- Josh's is rustic, earnest, and gullible, while Simon's is effete, alienated, and precise. Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of this story is that even after violation and mayhem, Josh and Simon retain their respective innocences.	2004-02-28
US	52538650	RFQEJW2216SIT	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautifully bleak	The title of this complex novel applies to post-apartheid South Africa, symbolized by the main character, David Lurie. It's not just about disgrace in the sense of shame, but dis-grace in the sense of discarding grace in order to achieve something else. Lurie's personal journey highlights the problems of contemporary South Africa, such as the impotence of the minority Westernized culture that ruled for so long and the brutal changes that accompany the evolution toward a new society. <br />There's a grim ironic justice in turning the exploitive standards of the former white regime against the white populace in the person of Lurie's daughter, Lucy, who is the victim of the ultimate colonial horror fantasy. But there's more to her than a victim. On a metaphoric level, her lesbianism is a rejection of the old establishment embodied in the predatory maleness of her father and of his urban culture, in favor of a return to the land that Lurie cannot fathom. This is a factor in Lucy's decision to become, in essence, a privileged concubine to her wily neighbor Petrus. <br />Lurie, as proxy of the values and virtues (or lack thereof) of the former ruling minority, can do nothing in response to his personal downfall and Lucy's exploitation by Petrus. It's cathartic and fitting that he abandons his previous ways and settles into a quiet decline, a life purified by abasement and marked by his awakened compassion for animals, a life in which he must give up everything, including his daughter. <br />In decades of empty academic and erotic pursuits and in his response to his \\"trial\\" by the university, Lurie (arrogant and corrupt like the old South Africa) showed no inclination for the kind of community that is essential if the new South Africa is to prosper. I think it's appropriate that Lucy and her unborn child will become part of a community at the end of the novel. It's a seemingly graceless existence that she is more than half-coerced into joining, yet which she accepts pragmatically. In the context of the novel, her fate is probably a necessary evil. It is her multiracial family that will build the new South Africa, while the old, personified by her father, can only watch from the sidelines, purged, purified, and powerless.	2004-01-02
US	52538650	R3RLEG9LAJ7BMY	006052085X	95337721	The Power of Babel: A Natural History of Language	Books	3	43	47	N	N	An uncertain alchemy of lead and gold	Have you noticed how prevalent the word \\"got\\" has become? As in \\"I've got a cold\\" (instead of \\"I have a cold\\") or \\"What's he got that I don't?\\" (instead of \\"What does he have that I don't?\\"). Or the versatile phrase, \\"You got it.\\" (Which has various possible meanings: You have understood what I mean. You have mucho mojo. I will do as you ask.) On one hand, pairing \\"have\\" and \\"get\\" is grammatically excessive, but on the other hand, the syllables flow more easily off the tongue. It's easy to see why Americans would trend toward the easier locution. All language is in a constant process of simplifying itself, or perhaps it's more accurate to say streamlining, and spoken language leads the way, with writing a slow follower. The Power of Babel embraces that reality. <BR> <BR>McWhorter is a linguistics professor at Berkeley and the author of Authentically Black, so he's got [sic] the chops. The book is filled with illuminating tidbits, such as the notion of \\"idea packets\\" - the brief units of information we present in spoken language, which are often run together with \\"and\\" or \\"so\\" and are less grammatically structured than they would be in written communication. One analysis concludes that the average idea packet is seven words long.<br />Or take \\"diglossia,\\" the term for the practice, typical in European countries, of speaking the standard version of the language in public and the local dialect at home. This leads to a discussion about the difference between \\"language\\" and \\"dialect,\\" with McWhorter arguing that all language is dialect. He clearly explains the distinction between pidgin (a broken version of a language) and creole (a new language combining at least two others), and gives examples of both. The book's driving premise is that our 6,000 languages evolved out of a single, original language. I'm not convinced, but the linguistic history he includes is very interesting. <br />The Power of Babel is an \\"entertaining romp\\" according to the blurb, which may put up ared flag for some seriously information-seeking readers. It's a consciously mass-appeal book, filled with pop culture references that produce some excruciatingly misjudged attempts at wit such as when, in a discussion of sound change, the author refers to \\"the French `cher' (pronounced like Chastity Bono's mother's name).\\" Ouch! It's the reading equivalent of stubbing your toe. <br />McWhorter mentions Monica Lewinsky, Marlo Thomas, and Dick Cavett, too, all in an apparent bid to make the book outdated as soon as possible. I have a friend who doesn't follow popular culture and found many of the ephemeral references baffling rather than illuminating. McWhorter evidently hoped such silliness would help alleviate some of the very dense linguistics talk he indulges in, but it's a distracting miscalculation that detracts from the many parts of his book that are genuinely worthwhile. The Power of Babel would be more successful if he had managed to strike a better balance between the two.	2003-12-20
US	52538650	R3GNB3E2UHIPXX	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Wickedly good	This enjoyable, rambling novel is written so engagingly that it's easy to overlook the occasionally forced-seeming accommodation of some of L. Frank Baum's ideas (for example, the poorly explained concept of sentient Animals in a story that in many other ways scrupulously establishes verisimilitude). But the source is treated with wit, too: Maguire says he fashioned the title character's name, Elphaba, from the L-F-B of L. Frank Baum. One of the reasons I liked Maguire's story so much is that it describes a country of varied terrains and cultures in detail and has a good map -- much like Earthsea and Middle Earth and Narnia. It motivated me to order a copy of The Dictionary of Imaginary Places, a compendium of more than 1,000 imagined places in world literature from way back when to Harry Potter. I also liked the fact that so many of Maguire's characters have intelligent conversations about meaningful subjects -- not always a given in fantasy novels. Here, the characters' educated discourse brings several of them vividly to life, enabling the reader to interact with them both intellectually and emotionally. Elphaba is an unexpectedly ineffective character in the end, with great convictions that come to naught in the public realm, but the novel shows, rather movingly I think, how politics affect everyone's life, whether you are politically minded or not. Maguire didn't quite convince me that magic could be so incidental in daily life in his Oz -- I expected it would be more integrated and integral, rather than an &quot;extra&quot; the way it comes across as being. But maybe there's a point here, too; namely, that a mechanistic (political) view of the world sends magic (however you define it) underground. And yet Madame Morrible used spells to coerce others. Is she the exception that proves the rule? The perversion of a special gift? I was surprised that Maguire chose to keep Baum's conceit of the Wizard and Dorothy coming from another world, when his political plot could easily have made Dorothy an Ozian assassin in the employ of the Wizard. That's one of the ways he seems to have deliberately chosen to keep his story rooted in Baum's book. Overall, he took on a tough challenge and carried it off with great imagination and sheer storytelling skill.	2003-12-17
US	52538650	RXWD339PERHX7	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tall tale with heart	Part Job, part Gulliver, part Robinson Crusoe, but always uniquely himself, Pi Patel embodies the tenacity of the human spirit. Like Job, he suffers terribly and questions God, but ultimately retains his faith. Like Gulliver, he is carried over unknown waters and discovers a mysterious island. Like Crusoe, he uses his wits to survive. The tiger, Richard Parker, is a wonderful companion, both mortal threat and a catalyst for strategies that help preserve Pi's life. As an avatar of fortune, Richard Parker is difficult and unpredictable, but capable of being accommodated, often complacent, and, ultimately, a necessary companion - as well as a fiercely beautiful one. Pi's encyclopedic knowledge of zoology and animal behavior are fascinating and his arguments in favor of zoos are eloquent. His willingness to be graphic about the necessity of killing is both essential for the story and admirable for a sensitive vegetarian. Despite these realities, the story has a lightness of tone that, along with periodic humor, keeps it afloat much as the lifeboat sustains Pi and Richard Parker. At times the narrative moves in a rather perfunctory manner from one incident to another, and for such an intelligent narrator, the writing style occasionally flags (\\"The flash of lightning was incredibly vivid.\\") Perhaps the struggle to stay alive is best served by plain language. I also wanted more theological speculation, more of Pi's inner life during his long ordeal, in addition to the abundance of well-described acts and events. And the blind encounter with a second lifeboat strains the credulity otherwise so well maintained. Despite its flaws, Life of Pi is a moving, imaginative novel. It won't change your life, as some have claimed, but it's well worth reading.	2003-12-17
US	52538650	R22R3NBBURNKX8	1841952974	324088565	I'm Not Scared	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Non avere paura di crescere	I, too, read the novel in Italian and have not seen the English translation. In Italian, at least, it's an intelligent, well crafted, exciting story with beautiful language and some real edge-of-your-seat scenes. The immature perspective of the unsophisticated, underinformed boy Michele (remembered by his adult self, who narrates) is very believable. I liked how the concept of not being afraid is inserted in several different aspects, among more than one character. The contrast between the seemingly pristine surface world of endless golden wheat and the filthy conditions inside the dark hole in the ground creates a perfect metaphor for a story that, in the end, is about not being afraid to grow up, for that is what Michele does, voluntarily leaving behind the innocence of childhood to enter the shadowier moral world of \\"i grandi,\\" the grownups. The novel has been made into a movie in Italy that I saw recently on DVD. Like most movies, it simplifies the plot and alters the ending somewhat, but it follows the novel fairly closely. The all-important role of Michele was well cast, and the vast dreamy landscape was made a virtual character in the story.	2003-12-03
US	52538650	RYQBHJ5R3JRTP	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	High-tech fairy tale	Artemis Fowl is an effective combination of Irish folk mythology and science fiction that accepts rather than rejects the violent world we live in. After a somewhat leisurely start, the story quickly accelerates into a breakneck pace that ought to keep most PS2-addicted youngsters interested. Colfer has a talent for carrying the plot along with a combination of action, humor, and likable characters. Even the minor players are all vividly sketched. There are original touches in the unusual dirt-digesting dwarf, Mulch Diggums, and the People's subterranean-to-surface transportation system. The tough-talking fairies of Colfer's imagination are also highly technologically advanced and militarily equipped, which should be just the thing for gadget-oriented readers. Colfer lightly inserts technical and historical details that help give weight to his imagined world, and his poop humor is clever and, well, clean. Despite the book's title, the 12-year-old \\"criminal mastermind\\" does not dominate the story, though the plot pivots around his actions. Artemis is determined to steal a fortune to replenish his family's depleted coffers, but he has a nagging conscience that humanizes him. The only element of the story that gave me pause is a graphic, gory battle with a bloodthirsty troll - but in this age of gut-spattering video games, it differs from what children are exposed to only in the level of detail, not in kind. In sum, for children who are aware of events in our warring world, Artemis Fowl is fun, fast, possibly even therapeutic entertainment with a heart.	2003-06-05
US	52538650	R2VXETR14ZDEZH	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Hilarious satire	This is one of the wittiest novels I've read about those eternal favorites, sex and death. It's sly and tongue in cheek from start to (almost) finish, but like all good comedy plays it straight. Eugenides has an original voice that manages to combine lyricism and reportage in well-crafted and well-paced sentences. By interposing a couple of decades between the suicides and the narration, he gives himself the distance necessary for the narrative voice to interweave two strands: a loyally remembered early adolescent hormonal fixation on beautiful girls - humorous and poignant in itself - and a grown-up compulsion with accumulating historical data and eyewitness accounts that can't quite prevent a tendency to mythologize the past even while trying to recapture and understand it. The tension between then and now, between cold fact and emotional memory, makes the unnamed narrator's account serious in the telling but daffy to the core. <br />He's a keen observer. Adolescent enthusiasm and adult nostalgia both inform the obsessive attention to details of old photographs, tubetops and brassieres, Rice Krispie treats wrapped in wax paper, canary yellow socks, shoe polish tins gouged to silver centers, and so on, a constant, colorful parade throughout the narrative. The past seems to cast a long shadow. Yet the eager, awkward boys who have grown up to have mournfully invoked thinning hair, soft bellies, and hearts filled with regret can only be in their 30s at the time of the story's telling. This burden-of-experience earnestness for men still so young is one of the novel's many amusements. <br />The narrator's sensibilities are consciously over the top, with extravagant statements such as the claim that the boys' experiences with the Lisbon sisters \\"have scarred us forever, making us happier with dreams than wives.\\" It's supported by the fact that as adults they've refurbished the childhood tree house they abandoned as teenagers and turned it into a museum to the sisters. The vividly evoked and often oddball minor characters - neighbors, students, ambulance drivers, doctors, reporters - are funny because of their deadpan earnestness, even while they utter profound banalities that would sink a less clever novel. Here, their affidavit-like statements tickle the reader's funnybone. All the conventional reasons for suicide are proposed without ever quite solving the mystery of why the sisters killed themselves. <br />The decay of the Lisbon house after the first suicide is so carefully tracked that it's impossible not to get the joke - the house as metaphor for the human condition is an old chestnut of creative writing, but the progressive dilapidation of the Lisbon house is delineated with a skillful morbidity that makes fun of itself. Apart from Lux Lisbon, the doomed sisters aren't differentiated, because they aren't really remembered as individuals. They are real enough, but they are mostly icons of desire. Although numerous named boys act and speak, and the handsome Trip Fontaine emerges as a temporary main character, the story isn't really about any of them, either. It's about all of them. Despite occasional specific locational references that suggest a single narrator, the universal authorial references to \\"us,\\" \\"we,\\" and \\"our\\" (\\"She had unbuckled us, it turned out, only to stall us\\") make the narrative voice not one person speaking on behalf of the many, but literally the collective voice of the boys whose imaginative lives revolve around their beautiful neighbors. This monotypic treatment of the lumpen adolescent psyche is one of the novel's most humorous elements. Another achievement is the light touch in evoking facts of life in an affluent Detroit suburb during the 1970s, including fashions, pop music, pollution, and Dutch elm blight. As he concludes his comic romp, Eugenides smoothly shifts on the last two pages to a quiet, elegiac finish. Having smiled often since page one, you close the book with the satisfaction of finishing a very pleasurable read.	2003-02-15
US	52538650	R1OK9Q3JQHX822	1582430462	57648521	The Wildest Place on Earth: Italian Gardens and the Invention of Wilderness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An arboretum of ideas	Like a ramble through a garden, or through the twists and turns of a maze, Mitchell takes the reader on a casually structured walk through memory, opinion, and speculation. He jumps from topic to topic in an engaging manner without exploring in any great depth his subjects -- the history of gardening in Italy and America, a few favorite writers (Thoreau, Wharton), his own large garden, his personal history, encounters with interesting people, the American conception and use of wilderness, urban encroachment, mazes and monsters, some colorful myths and stories. Nor does he need to go deep. His attempt in these related essays seems to be to introduce the reader to a great variety of ways of thinking about gardens, to provide different pathways through the subject, different perspectives. And he succeeds. Despite his overly ambitious subtitle (\\"Italian Gardens and the Invention of the Wilderness\\"), which suggests a strong unifying theme that the book is not disciplined enough to provide, he continually evokes the beauty and mystery of gardens as places of internal as well as external discovery. Constantly on the lookout for an iconic, sexless Pan, Mitchell finds the demigod in humans, goats, decorative statues, the center of a maze, and, ultimately, in the enduring metaphor that survived the arrival of Christianity not just to exist on its own, but also to inform the imagery of Satan. There are several startling moments as he gently guides us on his personal journey, such as the fact that in the 1960s scientists discovered lead from auto exhaust embedded in Arctic ice, or his encounters with an unnerving hiker in one of our national parks. Throughout, Mitchell's abiding faith in the garden, in the importance of human contact with the earth, sustains the book's meditative and thoughtful tone.	2003-01-22
US	52538650	R10DLS2T0M0B9X	0767903080	578510770	Sin and Syntax: How to Craft Wickedly Effective Prose	Books	5	106	108	N	N	Fun reading even for grammar know-it-alls	Well structured, as it must be, Hale's guide presents both the nuts and bolts of grammar and the considerations of style that cannot exist without a sound grasp of grammar. The book begins each section simply, with the &quot;bones&quot; of the part of speech being explained, puts on the &quot;flesh,&quot; and elucidates the &quot;cardinal sins&quot; and the &quot;carnal pleasures&quot; of nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, prepositions, and so on. Even when the going gets heavy, as in her discussions of attributive nouns or appositive phrases, her clear, conversational tone smooths the way. She concludes with reflections about voice, lyricism, melody, and rhythm. One of the best features of her book is a glut of choice passages from the likes of Nabokov, Joan Didion, George Orwell, Jamaica Kincaid, and many others. Her well-read reach extends to rap lyrics and the wine labels written by the flip, clever copywriters at Bonny Doon Vineyards. The collection of quotations alone makes this book worth owning. At times the tone is slightly uneven, as when she follows a serious discussion of rules with the casual use of words like &quot;gonna&quot; and &quot;wimps&quot; (apparently she has a reputation for being hip to uphold), and she includes sentence diagrams without really explaining how they operate. Her advice to &quot;go ahead and be ungrammatical if it feels right&quot; may make some sticklers swoon. But these are minor flaws in a manual that is useful for beginners and seasoned writers alike. You close the book understanding how the rich inventiveness of English is rooted in its complex grammar and vocabulary, which are the reasons it can be so flexible, so magical -- the reason, in fact, that language creates reality. Includes a helpful appendix describing other grammar guides.	2001-05-25
US	52538650	R1HGEVK7BTLP87	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	3	11	16	N	N	The painting, not the painter, is what matters	Ignoring scholarly confusion about the identity of the sitter for this famous painting, Chevalier invents a housemaid whose intelligence and resourcefulness come into conflict with the meekness expected of those in her station. Perhaps it was the psychologically complex combination of uncertainty and surprise in the portrait that inspired her. The beautiful girl, dressed like neither a lady nor a maid, seems ill at ease and willful at the same time. The novel is a tale of domestic intrigue in 17th-century Delft with a minimum of details bringing the time and place to life. Delft never really rises physically before our eyes, unfortunately, and Vermeer's luminous paintings are described as shockingly mundane lists of the objects and people they depict, without a glimmer of the dialogue between silence and light that is what makes them extraordinary. The closest Chevalier comes is in her description of the figure in another painting: &quot;A window lit her from the left, falling across her face and tracing the delicate curve of her forehead and nose.&quot; (A window fell across her face?) Nothing in the writing hints at why these works of art are special, beyond the fact that everyone says they are. Chevalier isn't really interested in the paintings, or in Vermeer, who is little more than a cipher. Her subject is particular: the imagined story behind a painting. In unadorned language, suitable to her protagonist, she creates a cautious, observant, thoughtful young woman the reader comes to both know and like. Most of the other characters fail to emerge as vivid individuals, with the exception of a senior maid, Tanneke. There are murky references to a possible attraction between the master and the maid which should have been deleted -- Griet, the girl with a pearl earring, rightly concludes that Vermeer was always more interested in the painting than the sitter. Chevalier, the young novelist, should have learned from Griet's wisdom. The novel's flaws notwithstanding, it's an enjoyable read, and Griet's lot in life after she sits for the fateful painting has a satisfying authenticity.	2001-05-16
US	52538650	RJIZQXPR5NLSN	0714813354	618313969	Italian Painters of the Renaissance: Venetian and North Italian Schools v. 1 (Phaidon paperback)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Classic, still-important, highly readable	Berenson's classic study of Italian Renaissance painters is well worth  seeking in used bookstores or through book-finding services. This  collection of essays separately published between 1894 and 1907 focuses on  the painters of Venice, Florence, central Italy, and north Italy. In  intelligent, lively prose, the author not only analyzes the merit of scores  of individual painters from Giotto to Correggio but also traces the  development of Italian painting and constantly reiterates his theory that  the &quot;life enhancement&quot; qualities of of high art are found in the  areas of tactile values, movement, and spatial composition, all of which he  explains in articulate detail. Movement and energy, for example, can be  expressed in an arm leaning on a pillow. He correctly identifies the  partnership in Florence between an intense desire for knowledge that helps  to explain and control the world and the &quot;discovery&quot; of classical  forms from ancient Rome. In painting, this led above all to a focus on the  human figure (which Berenson claims as the ultimate subject of art) and a  preeminent dedication to line. The intellectual rigor of Florence  contrasted with Venice, the voluptuous capital of a wealthy mercantile  empire distinguished by public rituals, where spectacle and color were the  chief aims of art. Berenson's authority ranges through landscape, the uses  of antiquity, Illustration and Decoration, prettiness versus beauty, and  archaic art, whose appeal lies in its search for form and movement. The  book is sparsely illustrated, so you will have to supplement it with your  own visual sources, but it's a goldmine of information, useful  perspectives, and thought-provoking opinions.	2000-09-05
US	52538650	R22IYUVRXYID5C	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the all-time great fantasy novels	Though obviously written for adolescents, this is a beautifully crafted  story that should appeal to all thoughtful readers. In prose that is spare  yet visually evocative and resonant with meaning, LeGuin creates an  exterior journey of adventure that is also a deep personal journey toward  maturity, with all the pain and loss, the failures and successes, and  ultimate balance that such a journey involves. Her note-perfect narrative  voice enhances the archetypal nature of Ged's quest for purpose and values.  His journey takes place in a world as diverse as our own, for the richly  envisioned archipelago of Earthsea contains different languages, remote  islands and trade centers, rural folk and city sophisticates, cold lands  and hot lands, wealth and poverty. Along with several powerful main  characters, the novel has many nicely observed minor players and some  charming animals, such as a little dragon the length of a girl's hand that  lives in oak trees and eats wasps, worms, and birds' eggs. And of course  there is the Shadow that Ged accidentally releases in a dangerous ritual,  spurred by his own ambition, that goes terribly wrong. Magic appears only  when needed, and the descriptions of it are very effective, such as when  Ged creates fog to confuse invading warriors or transforms himself into the  sparrowhawk that is his namesake in order to make a long journey fast.  Beyond its exciting adventure and the theme of self-discovery, the novel is  also about how language creates reality, for magic is controlled by  language, and language dictates how individuals perceive themselves and the  world around them. This is the best -- the purest -- of the four books in  the tetralogy, which is saying a lot because all of them are good. Like  each of the four, it is a complete story that doesn't depend on the others.  My personal favorite among the other three is The Farthest Shore, in which  an older Ged takes on a younger version of himself as a kind of apprentice.	2000-09-05
US	52538650	RDI4MVZXYC0RW	1555832903	74382942	The Lord Won't Mind (Peter & Charlie Trilogy) (Peter & Charlie Series)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Gay bodice ripper	This novel is a liberating manifesto of the right to love whomever we please, disguised as a romantic potboiler. Charlie and Peter, the young lovers, are well-endowed golden boys (like most gay men, to be sure) whose  highly emotional relationship undergoes just about every test imaginable.  Charlie, the more reluctant, more closeted of the two, and therefore the  one with more power, even marries an ambitious actress in an attempt to fit  in. When he can't measure up, she exacts a lurid, biting revenge. Peter  wants only to celebrate his love, and while he is more naive and  vulnerable, he is also more pure, more true to himself. By novel's end, it  is the slightly coarse Charlie who is learning from Peter about human  feelings. Merrick can certainly carry you along with his writing. There's  plenty of erotic sex, along with touches that flesh out the lovers' bond,  such as the mash note Peter sends Charlie, obviously from him, which he  refrains from signing, coyly writing that Charlie will have to guess whom  it's from. Of course true love survives in the end, because Merrick's  principal (and principled) reason for writing his novels was to demonstrate  that love between men is the same kind of love that men and women feel for  each other. The title of this one says it all.	2000-05-17
US	52538650	R25ET8WP2ZK4B0	0140235191	699249160	The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Out-Swifts Jonathan Swift	This is one of Angela Carter's wildest and best novels, a verbal feast served up by the late writer's seemingly inexhaustible imagination. Erotic, picaresque, complex, surreal, and humorous only begin to describe the pleasures contained herein. The story revolves around Desiderio, who as a  young man sets out to assassinate Dr. Hoffman, a genius waging war against  an unnamed city by means of hallucinations or dreams produced with the  &quot;eroto-energy&quot; of 50 copulating couples in his Wagnerian mountain  castle. In his very Swiftian travels, Desiderio encounters a deserted  seaside town, is arrested for a murder he didn't commit, and escapes with a  bullet wound; is taken in by the river people with their strange, seductive  ways who eventually try to sacrifice him; escapes again to sojourn with a  traveling circus where he is raped by nine Moroccan acrobats who later fall  off a cliff with the rest of the circus and a town of puritans (imagine  that conflict); meets a megalomaniacal Count whose travels take him and  Desiderio to Africa where the Count is boiled in a pot by a cannibal  chieftain; spends time in a curious, religiously rigid culture of centaurs  (Carter's most obvious homage to Swift). The novel is a  satire of sexual mores, restrictions, fetishes, and hang-ups that only a  writer as gutsy and opulently talented as Angela Carter could have  attempted. As a work of art, it's all over the place, and you might not  enjoy it unless you let it take you along for the ride. It makes a very  suitable companion to her later, more disciplined novel, The Passion of New  Eve.	2000-05-15
US	52538650	R2JM4RIUIFIFM9	0393048209	932199654	Americans' Favorite Poems	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Moments of glad grace	This book celebrates and typifies the resurgence of interest in poetry in our relentlessly digital age. It may be precisely because of the noisy pace of our technologically driven lives that poems appeal to us -- they are economical, artful, and surprising. Poems offer a few moments of thoughtful peace during which we can be with ourselves before returning to the fray.  And they can be shared with others, which makes them both personal and communal. Poetry is also portable -- you can carry one on a scrap of paper that weighs next to nothing, or in a slim volume, or in your memory.  <br />Pinsky and Dietz accomplish at least two things with this wide-ranging anthology. First, they gather together 200 poems that represent the breadth of the genre's history in many styles, voices, and themes, from Homer and other ancients up to current popular favorites like Mary Oliver and Robert Hass. Second, they give the children and women and men whose comments precede each poem the opportunity to define themselves through their response to the words, which in effect provides a picture of Americans around the turn of the millennium. This kind of self-exploration is innate to good poetry, for the best way to appreciate a poem is to engage your heart and mind with it. And your tongue -- in his book The Sounds of Poetry, Pinsky recommends reading a poem aloud (or hearing someone recite it) and listening for the cadence and the rhythm, the beauty of the sound, without worrying about the sense. You can always figure out the meaning later. For him, poetry is foremost a physical object brought into existence by the individual voice, and therefore a unique entity that cannot be duplicated, because each time it is said aloud it's different, each time created anew. <br />All the poems in this volume reward reading aloud, but are also, of course, a pleasure to read silently. Here are familiar poets such as Matthew Arnold, Coleridge, Emily Dickinson, Frost, Keats, Shakespeare, Dylan Thomas, Whitman, and Yeats. Here also are poets not often found in general anthologies, such as Anne Bradstreet, Federico Garcia Lorca, and the Polish poet Wislawa Szymborska, and writers known primarily as novelists (Margaret Atwood, Herman Melville). The poems are filled with pathos, love, loss, memory, anger, and humor, with adventure and beauty, with stories. There is no discussion of technical achievement because that is out of the book's scope. \\"Difficult\\" poets like James Merrill are not included. Pinsky's Favorite Poem Project was intended to evoke the ecumenical texture of American society and maintain the momentum of interest in poetry by a careful selection from among the thousands of contributions he received. The resulting anthology is both pleasurable and instructive.	2000-05-14
US	52538650	R2RTFS0JC41Y2C	0375706143	972085101	A Rich Full Death	Books	4	12	12	N	N	History and homicide	Dibdin scrupulously maintains a mid-19th-century writing style, or at least as much of one as is palatable to contemporary readers. Let's call it &quot;Victorian lite.&quot; That in itself interested me. Add his depiction  of a slightly shabby ancient city, a lurid mystery, and the gradually  unfolding psychological portrait of the narrator, and you have a story with  both surface flash and internal complexity. Especially if you've been to  Florence, his dusty, neglected, even slightly dangerous city in which  everyone has to get around on foot or by carriage provides a fascinating  contrast to the modern reality of this prosperous, sophisticated urban gem.  Otherwise, Dibdin doesn't paint a very detailed picture of the medieval and  renaissance architecture or the landscape. The plot and the relationship  between the narrator and the quixotic Robert Browning are what carry the  story. After the breakneck pace of the final third, I thought the  penultimate plot twist and the twist that follows it at the very end of the  novel nicely explained the feverish tone that underlies the polite style of  the narrator's letters from the very first page. This is an easy, fun read,  made more so by the history and Florentine folklore that Dibdin includes.	2000-05-13
US	52538650	R1CIFX2BC5US3R	0965881199	639689366	The Diaries of Adam and Eve: Translated by Mark Twain	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Eve's story	Even Mark Twain's ephemera charms. This well edited collection of separately written pieces creates the whole that Twain himself might have made. It features his most insightful depiction of a female persona, Eve, who is the one truly engaged protagonist in this glimpse into Eden. She is  the seeker, the thinker, and the emotionally active partner -- in short,  the whole person. It is no wonder that Eve names the animals and discovers  fire, while Adam lolls in a tree and complains about her talkativeness. He  is remarkably complacent for a miracle of creation. Twain imaginatively and  humorously evokes the naivete and sense of wonder of these two innocents as  they discover the world and each other -- learn, even, to recognize that  they are human. The fact that God is just a voice, mentioned once or twice,  and the Fall is the unfortunate incident that changes their lives  demonstrates that Twain was not interested in a religious parable. These  diaries are his reflection on the nature of male and female personalities  and the bond that draws and keeps men and women together. Though it feels  somewhat incomplete, the book is an enjoyable quick read. The editor's  afterword recounts the history of these writings and connects the diaries  to the author's own personal life, affirming its very personal nature. This  is a lovely book to give to an engaged couple, a married couple, or anyone  who enjoys Mark Twain's unique genius.	2000-04-07
US	52538650	RSD86RGFYYINA	0152024875	646327892	The Gammage Cup	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A cozy, bold, welcoming story	Carol Kendall once said, &quot;Children are a marvelous audience . . . they remember what they have read! Sometimes they remember it all their lives!&quot; Adults who read The Gammage Cup as children will probably  agree. The book is memorable because it's about self-discovery as well as  external adventure and because the five outcasts from the conformist  society of Slipper-on-the-Water are all appealing in different ways: Walter  the Earl (the scholar), Curley Green (the artist), Gummy (the poet), Mingy  (the curmudgeon), and Muggles, the average Minnipin who finds the rebel  within. When they turn out to be the only defenders of the Land between the  Mountains from an impending invasion of cannibalistic Mushrooms, they prove  themselves to be spiritual descendants of Fooley the Magnificent, the  Minnipin who hundreds of years earlier ventured in a balloon out of the  valley into the Land Beyond the Mountains. Among the souvenirs Fooley  brought back with him from the outside world -- our world -- was an odd  list of abbreviations, including Ltd., Co., Bros., Geo., that his literal  descendants, who call themselves the Periods, took as their own names,  making up pronunciations for these exotic words -- Litted, Coe, Bross,  Gee-oh. The conceit will please young readers who themselves may be at the  age where such abbreviations in the grown-up world puzzle and amuse them.  It is also revealing to discover that Fooley was himself originally an  outcast like the five adventurers, mythologized into an acceptable kind of  hero by his dull descendants. The world that Kendall creates in this book  is a kind of pre-industrial village society -- beautifully depicted in Erik  Blegvad's drawings, which include a map of the valley and a bird's-eye view  of Slipper-on-the-Water with houses and other buildings labeled. If there  is such a thing as a cozy adventure, this is it. After all, the five  outcasts don't even venture far from home, only into the mountains that  surround their isolated valley, though even that is unknown territory to  most Minnipins and fraught with real danger. The story is sure to appeal to  imaginative children in the target age range of 9-12 not only because of  its sympathetic characters but because its unobtrusive lesson about  individuality is just what preteens are beginning to struggle with in their  own lives. And it's so well written that adults will enjoy it, too.	2000-03-23
US	52538650	R1UWX6VEESGD48	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Portrait of a psychotic	How does a pyschotic's mind work? Patricia Highsmith takes the reader into the unanchored nature of Tom Ripley's personality and his simple, amoral approach to the world. This is especially well conveyed after he's  perfected his impersonation of Dickie Greenleaf and has been living as  Dickie for a while, when he reminds himself to practice his Tom Ripley  voice so he can switch to it in a second if necessary -- so completely has  he taken on the mannerisms and social polish of someone else. His talent is  psychological shape-shifting. While he's being interviewed by the Italian  police, it's as though he's impersonating Tom Ripley, the shy and humble  fellow who, in fact, he will never be again. Novels always give you more  information than the movies made from them, and so here we are privy to  Tom's inner life: his frequent fear of discovery, ability to rally quickly  into feelings of triumph and defiance, contempt for other people, shame  over his former life in the States, satisfaction about his self-improvement  (learning Italian, discovering art), even regret about the murders -- but  not a moment of guilt or remorse, not a single pang of conscience. His  homosexuality is less realized than it is in the movie, despite the fact  that Marge thinks he's queer and he denies it to Dickie. Although Ripley  fantasizes about spending the rest of his life with Dickie &quot;like a  brother,&quot; Highsmith omits or isn't interested in any possible carnal  details. It's as though this lost boy is too removed from any real human  connection to have a sexual impulse. Like an impressionable child, he  worships Dickie's savoir faire, good looks, fine clothes, freedom and  wealth. Highsmith's writing is a tad flat in places as she hurries over  plot mechanics to return to character and situation, and I found myself  wondering, along with Ripley, why no one, not even Marge, catches on to all  the clues pointing to the fact that he is directly involved in Dickie's  disappearance. (The movie cuts us some slack, and adds emotional resonance,  by letting us identify with Marge's realization of the truth.) But it's an  easy read and Highsmith has some nicely observed minor characters and  describes interiors so you can visualize them. The complex plot elements  are taken care of by the end, and the final sentence caps the story with a  satisfying flourish.nce. (The movie cuts us some slack, and adds emotional resonance,  by letting us identify with Marge's realization of the truth.) But it's an  easy read and Highsmith has some nicely observed minor characters and  describes interiors so you can visualize them. The complex plot elements  are taken care of by the end, and the final sentence caps the story with a  satisfying flourish.	2000-03-23
US	52538650	R33YT96T29J29B	0385479565	905671096	The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Half nonfiction, half fiction	Preston, as has been stated elsewhere, writes to scare. With that as a given, the sensationalism of this book seriously undermines any scientific credibility to which it may pretend. The fact that he goes to such lengths  to personalize his scientific protagonists and the fact that his later  book, The Cobra Effect, is a novel about a similar subject supports the  idea that fiction is where his heart was at when he wrote The Hot Zone.  With ebola, he had a subject that of itself is about as frightening as you  can imagine. Maybe that's what hijacked this project: he let the delicious  thrill of fear run away with whatever objectivity he might have begun with.  As an information-seeking reader, I don't like to be so grossly and  obviously aware of how an author is trying to manipulate my emotions. I  don't like to be herded into a corner with controlled hysteria, as here.  That said, The Hot Zone does do a service by educating readers like me who  might not otherwise learn about ebola and similar viruses. We learn how  biohazard investigation is conducted and what those big safety suits look  like and how they work. We learn about the theory of a simian origin of  these deadly viruses. And we get a calculated, entertaining warning about  the potential consequences to public health the viruses present. But  please, don't take this book as the authority on the subject. Consult the  CDC or other more responsible sources. Read The Hot Zone as the potboiler  it is, and don't panic.	2000-01-21
US	52538650	R35ZWX5J0YOVM2	0195202856	909971451	A Concise Encyclopaedia of the Italian Renaissance (237 Illustrations)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Valuable, affordable compendium	While clearly not exhaustive, this one-volume encyclopedia is a goldmine of key facts about significant individuals, movements, and styles, as well as such subjects as crime, family, mathematics, mirrors, nature, patronage,  population, rhetoric, science, and wars. You will find here a convenient  explanation of the term &quot;Renaissance,&quot; a French word applied to  an Italian movement. If you thought Mannerism was simply a reaction to the  High Renaissance style, its entry will enlighten you. However, if you want  to know the difference between, say, the High Renaissance style in Rome and  in Venice, you will have to read the entries for individual artists and  draw your own conclusions -- or go farther afield than this book. It's not  quite that comprehensive. The descriptions of particular cities focus on  political history rather than artistic history, a puzzling lapse  considering that Siena, Florence, Rome, and Venice, to name a few, had such  identifiably different styles. Some gaps notwithstanding, this is a very  useful book. My calling it &quot;affordable&quot; may be a misnomer if it's  unavailable. Keep it on your wish list and hope the publishers reprint it.	2000-01-21
US	52538650	R25K3N0Y84IW48	0425147762	980393930	Red Azalea	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Powerful personal history	Anchee Min's raw, abrupt writing style is a good vehicle for this compelling account of her life during China's misbegotten Cultural Revolution. From party loyalist to disillusioned communal farm serf to  candidate for the starring role in an important propaganda film, her  journey embodies the phrase &quot;the personal is political.&quot; Surely  few documented lives have been so victimized by politics as hers was. With  all its rough edges, her spare, direct prose speaks through remembered pain  to put experience into a larger perspective. Leaving the incredibly cramped  quarters of her intellectualized family for the huge labor farm was an  adventure that quickly soured, redeemed only by the dangerous passion she  shared with an admired woman named Yan. The punishment meted out to a  heterosexual couple found making love in the fields at night reflects the  risks she and Yan were taking. Later, selected as the potential lead for a  propaganda film, she competed fiercely with other young women equally  desperate to escape the brutalities of farm life. Her story demonstrates  how love does not depend on gender. One of the most remarkable sections of  this memoir details the efforts she undertook to have a love affair with a  party official referred to only as the Supervisor -- trying to connect in  the midst of an anonymous crowd at a mountain Buddhist temple, and meeting  him after dark in a notorious public park frequented by scores of others  searching for love, or sex, in the midst of a regime that repressed sexual  expression along with political freedoms. Indeed, in a society so  fundamentally paranoid as she depicts, where citizens were conditioned to  betray their neighbors over the pettiest infractions of party doctrine, it  is a small miracle that she finally managed to leave China at all. Anchee  Min is one of the lucky ones. The effects of the Cultural Revolution were  felt long after it ended. As late as 1989, the democracy demonstrations in  TianamenSquare were a direct, if delayed, reaction against it. Her book  stands as a testament to the personal toll of a dictatorial government.	2000-01-21
US	52538650	R1TGDWGWMPXN01	1569564299	68834949	The Towers of Trebizond (Braille)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Inimitable brilliance	With a minimum of fuss and a maximum of reading pleasure, Macaulay's narrator takes us along on her adventures in northern Turkey with her eccentric, camel-riding Anglican aunt and a grumpy missionary. Her aunt's  mission is to study the condition of women in Turkey; the priest's, to  convert Muslims; and the narrator's, to draw pictures for her aunt's  &quot;Turkey book&quot; and enjoy some travel. This simple premise yields a  rich harvest of comic character studies and a gradually unfolding, more  serious subtext in which Laurie, the narrator, struggles with her  agnosticism and the adultery she has been carrying on for ten years.  Macaulay has a wonderfully deadpan writing style marked by compound  sentences strung together with &quot;and&quot; and often ending in a short,  droll phrase. She is so amusing that you hardly notice how emotionally  reserved her narrator is, as she recounts her Anatolian adventures with and  without her aunt and the priest - exploring Trebizond, heading into the  mountains in search of good fishing, alone on the camel with a high fever  and money running out, cadging favors from a fellow Brit whose personal  duplicity she has discovered and could expose, meeting her mother and her  mother's wealthy &quot;protector&quot; by chance in Syria, and traveling to  Jerusalem. Until it's back in print, find it at the library or through used  book sellers.	2000-01-06
US	52538650	R2MXI8MCZMHPZR	0393315088	317869865	The Wanting Seed (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	20	30	N	N	Malthusian black comedy	Officially sanctioned homosexuality, cannibalistic dining clubs, and staged battles in which both sides all die are some of the solutions to overpopulation in this compulsively readable fable. The novel centers on  Tristram Foxe, a history teacher whose life falls apart in a nightmare  sequence of error and coincidence which are given momentum by a society  disintegrating under the ironically combined pressures of fertility and  famine. Burgess structures the story beautifully between exile and reunion,  sprinkling the narrative with puns, literary allusions, and his trademark  obscure words (e.g., &quot;esculent&quot; instead of &quot;edible&quot;).  The tension between horror and humor is sublime: eager lovers say  &quot;Yumyumyumyumyum&quot; as they kiss, while the population subsists on  tinned &quot;bully&quot; (perhaps named after John Bull, the figurative  British everyman). The only disappointment is the disenfranchised  heterosexual characters' negative attitude toward homosexuality - surely  Burgess knew better, even in 1962 - which comes across as more than just  sour grapes. Its one (thankfully not pervasive) flaw notwithstanding, this  is a provocative, rewarding read.	2000-01-01
US	52538650	R2FAJQ747H1OYZ	0226327728	312223857	Herodotus: The History	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Eyewitness and fabulist in one	Yes, Grene's translation contains anachronistic modernisms, as M.J. Lucero points out. These will bother some readers, but need not interfere with the pleasure that this immensely informative and entertaining book will bring  to others. The History is not only filled with wonderful stories that will  astound, appall, and delight you, it offers a panorama of the cultures and  values of the sixth and fifth century eastern Mediterranean (chiefly  Greece, Egypt, and Persia). In addition to accounts of historic individuals  and events, there is a wealth of detail about such topics as art, weaving,  food, sex, money, marriage and funerary customs, sacrifice, cannibalism,  international diplomacy, perceptions of time, and Herodotus's earnest if  often off-the-mark descriptions of natural history and geography (which  Grene helpfully clarifies in footnotes and endnotes). Oracles and dreams  play such a frequent role in political events that it's evident how much  more integrated these people were into their view of the cosmos than would  be the case later, after the sense of individual autonomy that was just  taking hold in Herodotus's time became more universal. Even so, these  players are brought alive with vivid personalities that encompass all the  human traits, from love and lust to anger, pride, compassion, grief, greed,  and madness -- the scope ranges from epic to intimate. Grene has also  successfully retained some of the flavor of Herodotus's Ionian Greek, with  its occasional eccentric locutions and phrase repetitions, adding to the  book's charm. Altogether, a rewarding read.	1999-12-29
US	52538650	R15HP7U4HRCIIA	0195112067	521066790	A Dictionary of the Ancient Greek World	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent resource	David Sacks spent four years writing this clear and comprehensive compilation, and the results reward his efforts. The title is a bit of a misnomer -- this is really a one-volume encyclopedia, not a dictionary of  simple definitions. Laid out from A to Z are descriptions and analyses of  politicians, poets, playwrights, and philosophers, gods and myths, cities,  historical events, and the many civic and social institutions that  comprised Greek civilization over a span of two millennia, with emphasis on  the classical era of the 400s and 300s B.C. He is as informative about  colonization and  kinship as he is about painting and warfare. Cyclops,  mathematics, the Seven Wonders of the World, it all seems to be here.  If  the subject you are curious about doesn't have an entry of its own -- which  it probably does -- the book's extensive index will direct you to the right  page. The author is as even-handed about the great achievements of the  Greeks (philosophy, democracy,  art) as he is about those aspects more  troubling to moderns, such as homosexuality, slavery, and the treatment of  women. Sacks writes in a remarkably easy and engaging style without  sacrificing detail, which enables the reader to absorb a great deal of  information quickly. Aimed at high school and college and general readers  who are hungry for knowledge, this book is an excellent quick reference for  advanced students as well.	1999-12-08
US	52538650	R3E3YU3XVHC8D4	0786700262	721271373	Earthly Powers (Burgess, Anthony)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A writer's life	The novel is also enjoyable for the casual modesty with which Burgess's narrator, Kenneth Toomey, describes his career as a writer, sprinkling his anecdotes about publishers, agents, and literary encounters with poems and  snatches of witty song lyrics, as well as the gender-bending rewrite of the  creation story in Genesis. The quotations support Toomey's own claim that,  despite his fame, he is essentially a writer of popular novels and light  musical verse whose most serious book was actually written by someone else  but published under his name with his permission. The novel's underlying  tinge of melancholy makes it a true elegy to a life of adventure,  achievement, suffering, loss, and innate, enduring dignity.	1999-08-19
US	52538650	R151GI6I9NAXY1	0802135161	24358295	Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Promising first novel	I liked this book a lot, too, but it does suffer from what might be identified as a first novel's imperfections - especially the metaphorical fables plunked into the middle of the narrative without any connecting  language. The rest of the novel so successfully carries us along in the  flow of Jeanette's life that the fables, meaningful or not, are  interruptions. This quibble aside, OANTOF is a charming melange of working  class comedy, evangelical expos, and coming of age story. It's not  surprising that sexuality, that most fundamental aspect of the human  condition, is what wakes Jeanette to her self and leads to the break with  her church, yet in her innocence she isn't even aware of the consequences  until they are spelled out for her. That is wonderfully well conveyed and  believable. Winterson wins my respect for her generous spirit: she treats  no character meanly or vengefully, even the most repressive ones. If  anything, that's what proves the narrator has risen above the petty  proscriptions among which she was raised.	1999-08-19
US	52538650	R2L7450SCPUO6H	0932076130	450711733	Italian Hilltowns	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Next best thing to being there	Carver is a master photographer of place and form. In technically highly accomplished black and white photos, he brings you so much inside these old hilltowns that the walls and streets have personality. Perhaps because his  photos rarely feature people, Carver permits the spirit of place to emerge  with unusual force and purity. It's a fascinating, slightly melancholy  experience also filled with the charm and beauty and simple rightness of  vernacular architecture. Highly recommended. Carver's books on Iberian,  North African, and Greek island villages, Mayan cities, and Japanese  traditional farmhouses are also worth seeking out.	1999-03-16
US	52538650	R1YJ3P1UKTS570	0671731998	464767126	Six-Dinner Sid	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Story and art both excel	Inga Moore has obviously watched cats carefully. Except for a few pictures where Sid's face is distorted to present a cute picture for kids, her exceptionally beautiful drawings (pastel or colored pencil) capture feline  postures and facial expressions with great accuracy. The combination of an  amusing story, a good lesson, and art that lifts your spirits makes this  book a winner.	1999-02-23
US	52538650	RU6GX7MOVEAFJ	0714506702	146663482	The Sorrows of Priapus (Sorrows of Priapus Ppr)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Misanthropic bile	This is a most unusual book, of interest chiefly as that rarest of literary  objects, a manifesto of pessimism. Dahlberg's intent seems to have been as much to display his bulging erudition and arch, archaic way  with words as to decry man's slavery to the sexual urge. His ostensible  subject is often buried beneath an avalanche of classical, historical, and  anthropological allusions, but at least the book is riddled with eccentric  epithets along the lines of &quot;Man is double, and who may know his  heart: he is a moral hermaphrodite.&quot;  The author's tone is judgmental  and defiant throughout, but that doesn't energize the book. The tedium of  reading finally overwhelms any interest his oblique approach might provide,  and there are no illuminating observations about the eternal itch, merely a  catalogue of references to Greek gods, Mayan myths, and &quot;primeval  potherbs.&quot;	1999-02-20
US	52538650	R3SXLBBCFALDJ0	0679738991	445034729	The Wapshot Chronicle	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A writer's writer	Cheever is a goldsmith of words, and, if you love language, the sheer pleasure of how he puts them together is enough to carry you though this picaresque family novel. The eccentric Wapshots are as unpredictable and  plotless as life, and if they have dull days the author never lets us see  them.  In this loose, richly inventive account  of Leander and Sarah and  their sons, Moses and Coverly, Cheever ambles through marriage, lust,  loyalty, death, and the eternal pleasures of place. Even the house has a  personality: &quot;The heart of the Wapshot house had been built before the  War of Independence, but many additions had been made since then, giving  the house the height and breadth of that recurrent dream in which you open  a closet door and find that in your absence a corridor and a staircase have  bloomed there.&quot;  Reading the novel is like constantly discovering such  surprises in the lives of seemingly ordinary people.	1999-02-19
US	52538650	R16EBD4MTM6HBR	0718111982	770396150	The Secret People	Books	3	3	3	N	N	More 1930s science fiction	Like the same author's Stowaway to Mars, this is a fast-paced early novel. The plot concerns a pilot and his girlfriend who are swept into a secret world of caverns beneath the Sahara inhabited by a race of troglodytes.  There they meet other unlucky  wanderers who are unable to find a way out.  The imprisoned surface dwellers bicker and battle among themselves while  the subterranean pygmies continue their rituals even as the huge lake being  engineered in the Sahara above begins to flood their domain. Will our hero  and his girlfriend, and her cat, escape in time? It's a quick and easy read  to find out. Worth picking up in a used book store if you are a Wyndham  fan.	1999-02-18
US	52538650	R3OQJK7P94XJS8	0786700416	515883809	The Chrysalids	Books	4	8	10	N	N	One of Wyndham's best	How do you survive in a repressive world if you are different -- especially if your difference is telepathy, and the society around you totally lacks imagination. That is the problem that David and similarly  gifted children of his generation must face in the post-apocalyptic, rural,  restrictively religious society they inhabit, in which deviance is apt to  be punished with death. Wyndham effectively conveys what it's like to carry  a secret, the solace of finding others like yourself, and, in this case,  the suspensefully described dangers of exposure. The telepathic  interchanges are evocative and believable, and the claustrophobia of  circumstances from which it's impossible to see a way out becomes tighter  and tighter until the final rescue. A wonderful allegory of freedom and  individuality packaged in good writing. Ranks among Wyndham's best novels  along with The Day of the Triffids, The Midwich Cuckoos, and The Kraken  Wakes.	1999-02-18
US	52538650	R2H79VTN1REJ1X	071811101X	62140829	Stowaway to Mars	Books	3	12	13	N	N	1930s science fiction	Written by a young, pre-Triffids Wyndham under the name John Beynon, this is a less well developed effort that nonetheless shows his talent. The plot is standard, with an attractive female stowaway joining an all-male crew on  a race to be the first nation to land on Mars, but it's graced with  original details and intelligent epithets such as &quot;Mind is the control  of brain by memory,&quot; and the fast-paced plot keeps you reading. The  most interesting elements are the Martian landscape, the rusty berserk  Martian robots, and the sad remains of the Martian people whose cities are  like a series of empty rooms. When the story turns into a space romance,  you understand why the stowaway had to be female. Wyndham always wrote with  a sure hand, and that was no less true of this early effort than of his  later, better novels.	1999-02-18
US	52538650	R1WQKTSCSROY9M	0452261295	738308939	The Dancer from the Dance: A Novel (Plume Contemporary Fiction)	Books	2	7	19	N	N	Ghettoized glamor	This novel holds its place in gay literature only because it appeared early in the development of a relatively new genre. It has an extremely narrow focus that glamorizes a vain and superficial segment of the gay male  world, but it functions as such a discovery and elucidation of this world  to the reading public that it will probably survive as a document of its  times. It was Holleran's first novel and reads like one. I became so  impatient with the author's writing style, which seems to consist of lists,  that I might not have finished the book but for the seductive sheen of the  party circuit in which it occurs.	1999-02-16
US	52538650	R1TSKHD7DL42EG	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Part novel, part travelogue, part moral exhortation	Like Gulliver's Travels, this book introduces us to a strange world filled with strange inhabitants in order to say something about us. Lewis's powerful imagination and evocative writing ensure that the adventure is  paramount, the Christian concerns unobtrusive. In fact, Christianity is  never even mentioned. Instead, by following Ransom's experiences among the  industrious, beaverlike hrossa and the tall, ascetic sorn, we come to  understand why the inhabitants of Malacandra call Earth the Silent Planet.  With its beautifully described landscapes and whispering, invisible  entities, Malacandra is a realistic utopia well worth this literary visit.	1999-02-16
US	52538650	R1D5N7123YDYS3	0679725768	420329808	The Mezzanine	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Mania for details	To call this a novel is a misnomer. It's a catalogue of Baker's at times anal reflections on the ephemera of modern life, such as escalator etiquette and how corporate carpeting feels underfoot, conveniently hung on  the frame of a day at the office. As such, it's a curious combination of  delight and tedium. Given the many, many subjects he covers and the  plethora of footnotes, I'm surprised there is no index. The book needs one.	1999-02-15
US	52538650	R3HT5UMBS4SPI6	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Empty calories	Only the books's thorough research makes it readable. The glimpses of 1896 New York are fascinating, and Carr admirably refrains from moralizing about the slum boys whose circumstances lead them to prostitution. He has fun  with the character of Theodore Roosevelt, but the crucial player, the  alienist Kreizler, has no real center, and the other characters are  ciphers. The climactic scene with the killer on the water tower is a huge  disappointment, a washout in terms of suspense or emotional catharsis. If  the author had written &quot;he noised&quot; instead of &quot;he said&quot;  one more time I would have thrown this book against a wall. If you care  about writing style as much as plot, the book will annoy you. If style  doesn't matter and you can tolerate frequent plot doldrums, you might enjoy  it.	1999-02-15
US	52538650	R3615CM601HHSH	0671671197	704134200	One Fat Englishman	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Rude and hilarious	It's a pity this book, first published in 1963, is out of print. Though not one of  Kingsley Amis's better known novels, it is brim full of his usual brio and highly intelligent writing style. The title character in  this case is Roger Micheldene, a dyspeptic Englishman in America for two  weeks who is at odds with everyone he meets. Roger, who considers himself  &quot;qualified in gluttony, sloth and lust but distinguished in  anger,&quot; feels himself surrounded by idiots and frequently lets them  know it. He spends most of the novel trying to get into bed with the wife  of a friend, or indeed any woman, and thoroughly disrupting Anglo-American  relations in the process. Amis manages to make us like, or at least be  interested in, a person whose chief behavior trait is &quot;being  awful.&quot; Fortunately, he surrounds Roger with a panoply of vivid  secondary characters, such as the American literary agent who is crazy  about all things British, the obnoxiously smart college student, the  persistent priest who sees in Roger a soul in conflict. In his quest for  self-gratification, Roger loses as often as he wins, but the contests are  extremely entertaining and the author's observations about American and  British sensibilities are priceless.	1999-02-15
US	52538650	R11HJWQHSE3K5K	0385314698	279544605	The Sixteen Pleasures: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Pedestrian writing	You'll have to pick your pleasures out of the dross of this very uneven novel. An interesting premise in an evocative setting receives a linguistically dull treatment. In language as plain as blank paper,  Hellenga disjointedly hops from family memoir to sociological analysis to  romantic adventure to professional exegesis with little sense of cohesion.  It's as though he strung together vignettes from a first draft. Characters  come and go without much discernable relevance to the story and motivations  are murky at best. The best sections deal with Margot's mother's death, the  obstacles to divorce in Italy, bidding at auction, and of course the  effects of the flood on Florence. If you want a vicarious tour of the city,  read Mary McCarthy's Stones of Florence instead.	1999-02-10
US	52538650	R20EYV5RQ36L7L	0061054887	758428577	The Dispossessed (Hainish Cycle)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An adventure of ideas	This may be LeGuin's best novel, despite its slow, ruminative pace. It's a thinking person's adventure, filled with ideas and so eminently quotable that it can spark discussion. Shevek is searching for answers, just like  the pioneers who founded his ascetic, open society on the arid world to  which they exiled themselves decades ago and from which they banished the  concepts of private property and privacy. Are they on the right path? Do  they really have a future? His search takes him back to the neighboring  home planet of Urras, a wealthy, materialistic society corrupted and  possessed  by the desire for power, whose vulgar, neurotic inhabitants  &quot;lived among mountains of excrement, but never mentioned shit.&quot;  Their decadence helps explain and balances the anarchistic social extremes  of Shevek's world, which were developed partly in reaction. The story loses  power at the end, when the corruption of Urrasti society manifests itself  in cliched violence, but thoughtful readers will find the novel very  rewarding.	1999-02-10
US	52538650	R2M1WCJCQU507K	1853047805	128659240	The Xenophobe's Guide to the Americans	Books	5	13	16	N	N	An excellent cure for national chauvinism.	This is the book to give to your solipsistic acquaintances who think the  United States is the center of the universe. From her opening observation  that Americans are like adolescents, to her analysis of American  materialism and underlying insecurity and her samples of American English,  the author maintains a consistent balance between humor and truth. As an  American myself, I may be biased, but I found this delightful little book  to be even better than the Xenophobe's Guides to the Spanish and the  Australians.	1998-10-13
US	52538650	RCGT50GW8A9TR	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	For citizens of the Information Age	True, this novel's backstage conflict is between technical information and character development. There is so much of the former that the latter sometimes suffers. And some characters, like Maya, are never very well developed. But Robinson successfully rises to the occasion a number of times, especially in his depiction of the taciturn Nadia and her relationship with Arkady. I haven't read many novels that are so educational and have such good science. It's almost a mini-seminar in Martian geology. Some of the technological achievements, like the airships and the cable attached to Phobos, are fascinating in their plausibility. If you like learning combined with entertainment, and are not an impatient reader, you'll enjoy Red Mars.	1998-08-08
