US	52539039	R35XILCELDJHRW	0451411978	42482092	Last Girl Dancing	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Gripping and Entertaining	FANTASTIC book! I thoroughly enjoyed Midnight Rain by Holly Lisle and I went right out to pick-up Last Girl Dancing and even though I really need to be focused on moving and work and family -- I couldn't put this book down once I started. Holly Lisle writes a darn good romantic suspense book!<br /><br />Again the subject matter is not the fluffy variety. Going undercover as a stripper is probably not the ideal job for most cops, but Jess Burbaker has 2 very good reasons for accepting the assignment. Her twin sister Ginny disappeared 13 years ago and she had moonlighted as an exotic dancer, so getting an idea of Ginny's world might help and two because she desperately wants to become a permanent member of Atlanta's famed Homicide Special Crimes Unit (HSCU) so she can continue to search for her sister. The stripper assignment comes with a catch -- in order to help find the serial killers, Jess must pair up with Hank Kamian, a tough former Army Ranger with a rare psychic ability.<br /><br />The pacing of the story is tight and Ms. Lisle has this great ability to make you fell just a bit creeped out. She delves into the emotions and feelings of Jess taking on the identity of a stripper and in my opinion, does a tasteful job of making the story about the people and not about the 'stripping.' It was a fast read and one I delighted in. I certainly hope there are more to come from her! EXCELLENT reading!	2005-08-07
US	52539039	RQMQ2A90T0MHL	0451411757	551320873	Midnight Rain	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Full of Suspense!	I finally sat down to read a book that captured me from the first page and didn't let go until I had closed the book after the final sentence. Midnight Rain by Holly Lisle was well written and extremely well paced.<br /><br />Phoebe Rain is trying to start a new life. Trying to get past the horrors her husband Michael put her through. Trying to forget the children he slaughtered on his way to her. And she has just about succeeded. She now works for Psychic Sisters Network as a tarot reader, but one night she gets a call and it's from him -- Michael. Frantic Phoebe calls the nursing home where Michael has been in a coma for almost 2 years -- a coma she put him in -- even though they confirm Michael's condition has not changed, her nightmare begins.<br /><br />I have to say that I was genuinely creeped out by this story. It's a woman's worst nightmare. Ms. Lisle kept me wondering how this could happen to Phoebe and how she was going to defeat that evil. FANTASTIC! Now, I have to go buy Last Girl Dancing to see if the magic will also be there.	2005-08-07
US	52539039	R5S7APVRRMDHO	0451215028	234738357	Seeing Red (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fastastic and Heartwarming	Seeing Red is the story of former high school friends, Summer Abrams and Joe Walker.  They were inseparable until the day Summer is caught in a fire at her family's warehouse - the same fire that takes her father's life.  Soon after, Summer puts as much distance between Ocean Beach and herself as possible, leaving Joe with hardly a goodbye.  Now her family is facing another fire in the re-built warehouse and Joe, a fire marshal, is one of the investigators in charge.  Summer comes home, determined to see her mother through the situation, and finds that her family expects her to flit in and then leave just as quickly, since that seems to be her modus-operandi.  Summer wants to be a part of the family again and wants her mother to understand what made her leave in the first place.  But first she has to deal with Joe - who has slimmed down and battened down his once expressive feelings - and the fire.  Can she find the strength to stay and make peace with her family and Joe?  Or will she run away, especially when her worst nightmare happens again - being caught in another fire?<br /><br />I loved the main characters of this story.  Summer is independent, but has a fragile side that she hates for people to see.  She enjoys her `love `em and leave `em' lifestyle, but seeing Joe so many years later, begins to wonder if she can ever open up to her family or a man again.  Joe loved Summer when they were in high school and believes that she never really saw him because he was chunky.  She was his rock, his center, and her leaving without saying goodbye really hurt him.  Now that he's lost weight, he finds it hard to believe when women are eager to date him.  But sooner or later they always leave because he refuses to emotionally connect to them.  Joe's sexy and has that `why can't I find a guy like him quality' that I love to encounter in romance novels.<br /><br />The story is an easy read and had I been able to devote an entire evening to it, could have finished it in one sitting.  I was pulled into the story right from the first paragraph and was content when I turned the last page.  I highly recommend Seeing Red.n one sitting.  I was pulled into the story right from the first paragraph and was content when I turned the last page.  I highly recommend Seeing Red.  <br />	2005-08-01
US	52539039	RSQFG83DDMMDF	0373791917	171726896	Certified Male	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Read!	Gwen Chastain loves her grandfather's stamp store and is thrilled when he leaves on a cruise to try-out retirement.  Gwen has always been the serious one in her family for as long as she can remember.  While her sister, Joss always loved the attention living in Africa garnered them, Gwen just wanted to be normal.  When $4.5 million in rare stamps go missing, along with a new employee, Gwen knows that she has to get them back before her grandfather's clients find out and before he returns.  She tracks the thief to Las Vegas and a high stakes Texas Hold'em tournament.  Gwen can't chance being recognized and becomes Nina, a sultry blonde up for anything.  Meeting sports writer, Del Redmond is both distracting and exciting.  But when everything is said and done, has Del fallen for the outrageous Nina or conservative Gwen?<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed this story by Kristin Hardy.  Gwen's transformation into Nina is fun, even if Gwen's pep talks to her self become tedious at times.  I enjoyed the world of stamp collecting and poker playing.  Ms. Hardy gives enough details to be authentic, but not too much that you feel you're studying a text book.  The dialogue is snappy and at times, laugh-out-loud funny.  Del and Gwen are a wonderful match and the scrapes they find themselves in is great and the bedrooms scenes are hot, hot, hot!  I can't wait for Joss' story, U.S. Male, to hit the stands in August.  This is a must read for the summer!<br /><br />***Please check out [...] for more reviews!	2005-06-15
US	52539039	RJX2TA2GJHBDN	1590803442	691241253	That Devil Moon	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Fun and touching...don't pass this one up.	Maddie Harris has had it with men. When she moves into her Grandmother's house in Beaver Cove, Arkansas, she is determined to lead an uneventful and orderly life as the local high school's assistant principal. Of course it's hard to consider your life normal when you not only talk to your dead grandmother, but can also see her. Oh, and let's not forget the one night of crazy sex, under the full moon, down by the lake with a late-night fisherman...<br /><br />Ex-football star, Phil Wilcox, is working on redemption. He wasn't much of a husband in the old days and even less of a father, but he wants to re-connect with his 11 year-old daughter, Melissa. Three years sober, Phil is ready to jump through any hoop to have Melissa call him Daddy again. Even if that means being civil to his money-hungry, manipulative ex-wife AND building the first winning football season Beaver Cove has seen in many years.<br /><br />Maddie and Phil...polar opposites. He knows nothing about fashion, while she color coordinates everything. She has a place for every single possession and his idea of `order' is getting takeout at the Taco Bueno. And if they could just stop picking at each other, maybe they'd find they have something in common...like a blissful night spent under that ol' devil moon.<br /><br />Dana Taylor has crafted a witty ride for readers with That Devil Moon. You won't get away from this read without chuckling...whether it's from Phil's wicked sense of humor, his daughter's little, unknown facts or the crazy antics that happen in Beaver Cove. The momentum fell flat a few times and it felt as though there were two endings, but the need to find out if Phil and Maddie can make it as a couple, pushes you onward. While couched in humor, Ms. Taylor does explore the very serious subjects of redemption, pregnancy, drugs, staying in school, gays and stalkers and does an excellent job of not preaching to the reader or letting these subjects slip away in the humor. The secondary characters were absolutely outstanding. Randy Bailey, Maddie's gay best-friend and Melissa are hilarious, Grammy Harris tells it like it is and backwoods neighbor/student, Reba, is a quiet jewel. All-in-all, a delightful story and a one-sitting read. Pick this one up for an evening of fun.y characters were absolutely outstanding. Randy Bailey, Maddie's gay best-friend and Melissa are hilarious, Grammy Harris tells it like it is and backwoods neighbor/student, Reba, is a quiet jewel. All-in-all, a delightful story and a one-sitting read. Pick this one up for an evening of fun.  <br /> <br />	2005-01-31
US	52539039	R3TN49OGOU5WIS	0758206682	249512530	The Bane Affair	Books	4	6	6	N	N	HOT HOT HOT!!!!!	Going under cover as Spectra IT's womanizing front man Peter Deacon is the last thing Christian Bane wants to do. But when Hank Smithson, founder of SG-5 asks him to take this case to help bring Deacon down, Christian can't tell the man who saved his life \\"no.\\" Armed only with his good looks, sharp intellect and the Intel amassed about his targets, Christian arrives at Dr. Bow's country estate to locate and retrieve kidnapped computer programmer, Woodrow Jinks. But things are rocky from the start. According to his Intel, Bow's goddaughter, Natasha Gaudet is privy to the deal between Bow and Spectra IT, but it becomes clear that Natasha knows very little. Christian knows that the real Peter Deacon would not miss the opportunity to mix business and pleasure with Natasha and the more he gets to know her, the more Christian wants to be with her...not as Peter, but as himself. Will he be able to figure out the deal between Bow and Spectra before anything happens to Natasha and will she hate him once she realizes he's not them man she thinks he is?<br /><br />Alison Kent has begun her SG-5 series with a bang. Christian is an emotionally unattached, wounded man who's not quite sure what to do with Natasha...and who can blame him? The last time he put his heart into a woman's hands she left him to die in a Thai prison. Natasha is a woman who likes the finer things in life, expensive clothes, fast cars and hot men and Peter Deacon is just about the hottest she's ever met. But his actions contradict her intuition about him. Is he the womanizer or the wounded soldier? Both of these characters are multi-faceted and wonderful. Their sex scenes sizzle right off the page and it's not hard at all to invest in these two. The story is fast paced and filled with vivid settings (I want my own water garden now!) and excellent intrigue (think a faster version of Alias). It's a one sitting read all the way. The Bane Affair is an outstanding beginning to Kent's Smithson Group series. --Shelly Tavenner, official reviewer at [...]Shelly Tavenner, official reviewer at [...] <br />	2005-01-31
US	52539039	R1N4JQ2NQG4GRC	0312992432	576321484	Seize the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 7)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another solid book in the Dark-Hunter series	Sherrilyn Kenyon continues her popular Dark-Hunter series with Seize the Night and true to form, she provides another thrilling, sexy read in our favorite sultry city. Valerius Magnus is an outsider amongst his fellow Dark-Hunters. His Roman background gives many of the Greek Hunters a reason to sneer at him, his own squire disrespects him and to top it all off, Artemis has reassigned him from DC to New Orleans, where Kyrian of Thrace and Julian of Macedon live and could be the President and Vice-President of the `we hate Valerius\\" club. To make matters worse, Valerius is haughty and cold to those around him and nobody has ever gotten past his aristocratic walls...until Tabitha Devereaux.<br /><br />Tabitha doesn't understand why the Dark-Hunters all snub Valerius. Sure he walks like he has a stick someplace uncomfortable and he has an irritating habit of looking down his aristocratic nose at most people and things, but surely that's not a good reason to hate him. Tabitha knows one thing, Val is an incredible Daimon killer and to her that's important. She patrols nightly to try and help keep the Daimon population to a minimum. One thing is for sure. It's going to be a messy situation when her sister, Amanda and her husband, Kyrian find out Val is her new hunting partner. Kyrian has never gotten over the fact that it was Valerius' grandfather who tortured and crucified him. But maybe it's time for bygones to be bygones, especially when Desiderius is back and he won't stop until he has destroyed all that Tabitha holds dear.<br /><br />Kenyon has written another masterful story that completely immerses you in the Dark-Hunter mythos. The Dark-Hunter world is fascinating and her characters are so real they could easily walk right out of the story. Valerius is beautiful, cold, lonely and wounded. He makes a wonderful hero, as he has always been punished for trying to help others and Tabitha is an outrageous and flawed heroine that is just the right balance for him. As usual, Kenyon weaves extremely erotic and emotional scenes into her story and is able to evoke laughter and tears within pages of each other. For me, turning the last page is sad, as I know it will be several more months before I can engross myself in the DH world again...of course there is always her wonderful Dark-Hunter website for an occasional fix. Seize the Night is a must have for your next book shopping list and while you are at it, pre-order Sins of the Night!!  --Shelly Tavenner for [...]As usual, Kenyon weaves extremely erotic and emotional scenes into her story and is able to evoke laughter and tears within pages of each other. For me, turning the last page is sad, as I know it will be several more months before I can engross myself in the DH world again...of course there is always her wonderful Dark-Hunter website for an occasional fix. Seize the Night is a must have for your next book shopping list and while you are at it, pre-order Sins of the Night!!  --Shelly Tavenner for [...]  <br />	2005-01-05
US	52539039	R1QYQQSINKGT5P	0373513380	581286466	Hot Case (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very entertaining and perfect for the Bombshell line.	Detective Shelley Caldwell can't believe that the body of LaTonya Sanford could just disappear right in front of her, but it has and thanks to that disappearing trick, Shelley is now teaching classes at the Academy instead of out on the streets finding LaTonya's killer. Shelley's twin sister, Silke, calls to let her know that another girl has been found dead and like LaTonya, her body disappeared. Shelley knows the only way to find out what the connection between the two girls' murders is to go undercover as Silke at the local Goth bar, Heart of Darkness. There Shelley meets the enigmatic Jake DeAtley, but is he a friend or a potential suspect? Shelley knows evil exists, but is she prepared to accept that the murderer she seeks might be a vampire?<br /><br />Patricia Rosemoor does a wonderful job of pulling the reader into the Goth scene. The paranormal elements are well done and don't override the overall mystery to be solved. The dialogue is quick and laugh-out-loud funny. The interaction between Silke and Shelley is fun and I'm hoping that we will eventually get a story that focuses on Silke. Jake is extremely sexy and the chemistry between him and Shelley sizzles on the page. The only draw-back is the first person narration. The story flips between being told by Shelley and then through the eyes of other characters in the third person. Sometimes, it took me out of the story, but only momentarily, as Ms. Rosemoor does an excellent job of re-immersing the reader. All-in-all a fun and fast read and does the Silhouette Bombshell line proud. --Shelly Tavenner, official reviewer at [...]	2005-01-05
US	52539039	R2GJUJ7S2ZQBB1	0446612774	237607803	Long Time Coming	Books	5	212	219	N	N	A must have for the keeper shelf.	Two words.  ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC!  Edie Claire has written a wonderful novel about friendship, love, guilt and death.  Joy Hudson never completely moved passed the death of her best friend, Jenny Carver, which occurred right before their high school graduation.  Now, almost twenty years later, Joy must travel back to her hometown to care for her ailing father and there she runs into Jeff Bradford, Jenny's boyfriend and the man that she has always blamed for the accident.  Joy knows that it is finally time to face the emotions and memories that she buried along with Jenny.  She ends up purchasing Jenny's old house and then the odd occurrences begin.  A song from prom plays over and over again and the door to her home opens itself on its own accord.  Joy knows that Jenny is trying to tell her something, but what?  Joy will need Jeff to help her regain the memories that her mind refuses to hold onto and when she does, she finds forgiveness and love that has been waiting for her.<br />Utterly riveting.  Edie Claire takes what could be a tedious and sappy subject and turns it into a wonderfully balanced tale of how the scars death and guilt can cause.  Every character is richly developed and the story flows easily.  The paranormal parts of this book are believable and poignant.  I read it in one sitting and craved more even though I was satisfied with the ending.  The only part of this story that bothered me was the quickness that Joy forgave Jeff.  She had been harboring this hurt and blame for 18 years and forgives him in almost a blink of an eye.  Besides that small plot point, this story is powerful and will find its way to my keeper shelf.	2003-11-30
US	52539039	R3RQWTQDKECAYO	0515135968	211913229	Shadow Game (GhostWalkers, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Excellent novel by Feehan!	Synop:  Dr. Lily Whitney is the daughter of Dr. Peter Whitney who is working with the military to create a covert group of men that work as 'GhostWalkers'.  Each man in the unit has his own powers, whether they are telepathic, telekinetic, clairvoyant, etc.  The experiment begins to go horribly wrong and after the death of her father, Lily is the only one that can save the remaining GhostWalkers from death.  Lily feels drawn to the commander of the group, Ryland Miller, but is her attraction real or the result of experimentation by her father?<br />Critique:  I have not always been a fan of Feehan.  I love paranormal stories, vampires in particular, but her other novels have always left me feeling let down.  This was an excellent book that I just didn't want to put down, and not only that, I want to see the stories of some of the other GhostWalkers such as Kaden, Nicolas, Hollister and Gator.  So get to writing Ms. Feehan!!!!  The story is fast paced and it is very interesting to see the different skills that the men have learned.  Ryland is a great alpha male character that you can't help but fall in love with and Lily is soft yet a spine of steel.  I will def. read her other works from here on out!	2003-08-27
US	52539039	R3HPTFK44YNBRV	0425190714	681392429	Killing Moon (The Moon Series, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	My first, but not my last York novel.	Killing Moon is a great read by author Rebecca York (AKA Ruth Glick).  I found it quite by accident and I have already gone out and purchased Edge of the Moon and now am eagerly awaiting The Witching Moon.<br />Synop:  Dr. Megan Sheridan has lost the toss and must go and get a genetic sample from would-be-patient Ross Marshall.  Ross needs to find out if having children is possible for him or if he should just stay a loner.  Megan finds Ross delirious, shot and naked.  She can't help but be attracted to Ross.  When Ross wakes up and finds Megan with him, he knows that he has found his 'mate' but the man who shot Ross will take their relationship and use it to his advantage.  Ross must come to terms with his own inner 'demon' in order to save Megan and find a life of love and happiness.<br />Critique:  I have read many stories about vampires, but haven't really delved into the world of werewolves.  York does a great job of bringing the reader into Ross's world where he doesn't quite embrace his wolf side.  The reader can't help but fall a bit in love with Ross, with his tortured, recluse act.  Megan doesn't seem to be as well defined as Ross, but you root for her as well.  The story was a fast read and made me want to read the next installment in the trilogy.  I def. recommend this book if you like the paranormal.	2003-08-11
US	52539039	R13BNQO7A1LY7D	0375509089	820528775	Loose Lips	Books	2	7	12	N	N	It won't be staying on my shelf.	At first I thought this book was going to be excellent.  4 chapters into the book and I was singing the praises to anyone who would listen.  By the time I ended the story I was disappointed and felt a touch cheated.  I enjoyed Berlinski's story about getting into the CIA and living in Northern VA, I know the places etc, she talks about, but she never made me feel for the characters.  I skimmed the last three chapters with frustration while thinking 'who cares, I just want it to end.'  If you have a lot of free time and are looking for a rather unremarkable read, then this is the book for you.  This book is not a procedural novel as you may think in the beginning.	2003-08-11
US	52539039	R3ST92J3OFL97X	0345462270	475675876	Gone Too Far (Troubleshooters, Inc. 6)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Brockmann is Back!	I am not going to bore you with a synopsis of the book. Instead I am going to tell you why you have to own this title. I have been a Suz Brockmann fan from WAY back in the 'Loveswept' days and own almost everything ever published (darn Loveswept for making Ladies Man a subscriber exclusive). The last two books by Suz have been just sorta 'ok' and honestly, I was ready for her to make a change from the SEAL line, but this book has brought me back hoping for more stories from the guys of Team 16 and the 'new business' (you have to read the book to know what I am talking about). Typically Suz's full length novels are a little overcrowded with simultaneous story lines and frankly, the WWII stories had dragged most of the other books in this series down for me. But this novel has it all: a great Hero and Heroine, fast pacing, excellently interwoven sub-plots and a touching WWII story that fits nicely with the rest of the book. Now, I will say that if you are sensitive to cursing this might not be the book for you, because there is A LOT of cursing. You can't help but root for Sam and Alyssa and their journey is not an easy one. Mary Lou fans will be pleased as well. The story had me laughing and even crying a little. You won't be able to put it down and it is worth the hardcover rate. Don't pay attention to the Kirkus Review. Obviously they only skimmed the story because some of what they said is not close to the mark. I checked out their website and it seems sarcastic reviews are their stock and trade. Way to go, Suz! Please write faster!!!!	2003-08-02
US	52539039	R2ZSIXY3Z8UUV2	0345462270	475675876	Gone Too Far (Troubleshooters, Inc. 6)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brockmann is Back!	I am not going to bore you with a synopsis of the book. Instead I am going to tell you why you have to own this title. I have been a Suz Brockmann fan from WAY back in the 'Loveswept' days and own almost everything ever published (darn Loveswept for making Ladies Man a subscriber exclusive). The last two books by Suz have been just sorta 'ok' and honestly, I was ready for her to make a change from the SEAL line, but this book has brought me back hoping for more stories from the guys of Team 16 and the 'new business' (you have to read the book to know what I am talking about). Typically Suz's full length novels are a little overcrowded with simultaneous story lines and frankly, the WWII stories had dragged most of the other books in this series down for me. But this novel has it all: a great Hero and Heroine, fast pacing, excellently interwoven sub-plots and a touching WWII story that fits nicely with the rest of the book. Now, I will say that if you are sensitive to cursing this might not be the book for you, because there is A LOT of cursing. You can't help but root for Sam and Alyssa and their journey is not an easy one. Mary Lou fans will be pleased as well. The story had me laughing and even crying a little. You won't be able to put it down and it is worth the hardcover rate. Don't pay attention to the Kirkus Review. Obviously they only skimmed the story because some of what they said is not close to the mark. I checked out their website and it seems sarcastic reviews are their stock and trade. Way to go, Suz! Please write faster!!!!	2003-08-02
US	52539039	R1PCTO4FFL4UZP	1590863399	93143308	Birthright	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Wonderful Book, Horrible Audio	It is a shame that a book as wonderful as Birthright has such a horrible narrator like Bernadette Quigley.  I had the unfortunate chance to hear Ms. Quigley on the Three Fates audio and it was done so poorly, I actually returned it to the store.  I didn't check to see who was reading Birthright, much to my chagrin.  Ms. Quigley does not seem to have a range of voices to pull from, such as a fellow reader of Nora Roberts, Sandra Burr.  In this reading Jake sounds like an eighty year old man and it's actually kinda creepy.  Most of the male characters all have the same `voice' and you aren't sure who is supposed to be talking until their name is spoken.  Ms. Quigley does an excellent job of reading Callie.  She uses just the right amount of sarcasm in her voice and Lana is pretty well done too, but beyond that, it's terrible.  I HIGHLY recommend the book, but stay far away from the audio!	2003-05-06
US	52539039	R1YD0YL6NHBUWC	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	4	34	43	N	N	Where's Larry and Ronnie and Animators Inc and Louie and...	I am a HUGE fan of the Anita Blake series.  NIC was starting to break from the usual excellence of the line, Cerulean Sins is even further off the mark.  The book was still well written which is why I gave it 4 stars, but I miss the elements that made the first 7 in the series excellent.  There isn't much in this book about Anita's 'work,' only a few gratuitous mentions of her side-kick Larry, and NOTHING about Ronnie.  There is a lot of sex though.  While some sex is fine (since ALL the main guy characters are hotties) but time after time gets old.  Please, have Anita controlling the ardeur by the next book and fill the pages with a true story, not just sex.  If the next book doesn't veer back on track it may be my last.	2003-04-02
US	52539039	R1XSU17GC6V68B	0373272669	221580545	Alias Smith and Jones  (The Tremaine Tradition) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Characters, Wonderful Story!!	Analiese Tremaine may look and act like your typical &quot;blonde,&quot; but she is anything but....  When Ana's brother goes missing she decides that she will be the one to re-trace his steps and try to find him before his cover is blown.  She hacks into his computer and finds a trail that leads to Jones.<br />Jones takes one look at &quot;Ann&quot; and decides she's trouble, but money does talk and he's pretty low on funds.  He can't help but watch out for her because he thinks she's ditzy.  The run together through the jungle, climb down cliffs and sail home on a garbage barge....all for Sam Tremaine....<br />This story is wonderfully written by Kylie Brant.  In a world where the series romance can sometimes become lackluster, her story shines through.  I highly enjoyed the interaction with Jones and Ana...he's stoic and she's sassy...wonderful by-play between them all through the story!  You can't miss this one!	2003-02-18
US	52539039	R1GS770UM57CY2	0821775286	428893049	After Sundown	Books	2	19	19	N	N	Not one of her best.	In this latest story by Amanda Ashley, Edward Ramsey, a former Vampyre hunter, is brought over by Grigori Chiavari after Ramsey almost dies killing one of Chiavari's enemies. Ramsey hates being one of the things that he devoted his mortal life destroying. He rescues Kelly, beautiful woman whom he eventually falls in love with and she helps him to accept his new life. Then Khira comes to town and she is determined to destroy the vampires and humans alike in Los Angeles.<br />Critique: I love Vampire stories. There is usually nothing more exotic and sensual as a vampire, but this story lacked quite a bit. The story line did not move smoothly. I felt that a lot of dialogue and scenes were reused over and over and over. The character development was practically non-existent. You would think the story will be more about Kelly and Ramsey, but you find out more about Chiavari and his wife Marisa. I did not feel anything for these characters and had to force myself to finish the book. When I finally read the last word I sighed...not with satisfaction, but with relief. If you are an Amanda Ashley fan, maybe you will adore this novel, but others...beware!	2003-02-17
US	52539039	R2VGZEGDDDQHN	0804119724	447468621	Into the Night (Troubleshooters, Book 5)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Ready for something new	I am a HUGE Suzanne Brockmann fan.  I have every book she's written (save for one that I *sigh* can't find) but this book was a little on the lack-luster side.  Typically, I buy her books and have them read by the end of the night.  This one, I let sit for a few days.  Once I sat down to read it, I did do it in one sitting, but not with the same fire as I did with her other books.<br />Mike and Joan were a very good couple.  I really liked Joan's character.  She was witty, strong and not a rail, but I felt like something was missing.  Or more to the point....this story was a set-up for Sam, Alyssa and Mary Lou's story.  I am not a fan of the WWII sub-plots and this one really did have me skipping over it and since it really wasn't an integral part of the story, I didn't feel I missed much by skipping these pages.<br />While I am def. waiting for Sam and Alyssa's story, I am ready for Suz to move on.  Her single title &quot;Heart Throb&quot; was an excellent single title and while I LOVE the SEALs, I am ready for soemthing else.  I am still looking forward to Wes' story in the TD&amp;D series and my first love is the alpha squad, but I'm ready for Suz to expand her focus.<br />I def. recommend this book.  It's by Suz! LOL, but don't let this be your first Suz book....	2002-12-13
US	52539039	R2M4H56AFWTE2Y	0345453808	317621417	Killjoy	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Convoluted	I have been eagerly awaiting the release of this book because I fell in love with John Paul in Mercy and I was waiting with baited breath for his and Noah's stories to be told.  After finishing this book while I vacation I felt....cheated, somehow.<br />This is the third in Julie Garwood's \\"FBI\\" series.  It began with Heartbreaker, followed by Mercy and then Killjoy.  It is the story of Avery Delaney and employee of the FBI and her extremely dysfunctional and \\"nuts\\" family.  Jilly, her mother, who was thought to be dead has come back to get revenge against Carrie, the sister she has always hated and her daughter Avery.  Jilly hooks up with the professional killer, Monk (Mercy) and persuades him to help her exact her revenge.  John Paul has vowed to get Monk, one way or another for the attempted murder of his sister, Michelle (Mercy) and is on his trail.  Avery and John Paul are racing the clock to save Carrie, Sarah Collins (the judge who put Jilly's lover behind bars) and Ann Trap (whose husband has paid Monk to kill her) from being blown up in a house that Monk was contracted to blow-up (yes the plot is a full one).<br />While I really liked both Avery and John Paul, the rest of the story just seemed to get in the way.  Now, believe me, I like a good mystery/thriller as the next person and they don't have to have romance in it to keep me interested BUT if you are trying to sell it to me as a romance, please do not clutter up the story with chunks of sub-plots that are just way too long.<br />While admittedly, you may not notice the pace as much while reading it, I also purchased the unabridged audio, and to give you an idea of what I mean....John Paul is not even a fully used character until the 3rd disc...that's over two hours into the story!!<br />Whole chapters were devoted to Jilly and Monk and Avery's Aunt Carrie, Sarah Collins and Ann Trap.  Basically, I spent the entire book being impatient.  Once I really got into the story of John Paul and Avery trying to outwit Monk, the chapter would end I would have to slog through the entire next chapter of what Carrie was up to.<br />The characters were well written, but the pace and plot left something to be desired.  I am still looking forward to Noah's story, but I will approach it with trepidation.to outwit Monk, the chapter would end I would have to slog through the entire next chapter of what Carrie was up to.<br />The characters were well written, but the pace and plot left something to be desired.  I am still looking forward to Noah's story, but I will approach it with trepidation.	2002-10-09
US	52539039	ROS7GKN9RPD3P	0595234682	541492285	The Shadow Government	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written for a first book and a quick read!	I think that I would have liked to be able to give 3 and a half stars for this book.  The book is an excellent first attempt by Ray Derby.<br />Many people might have a misconceived notion of what a \\"Shadow Government\\" really is.....no, it's not another President and VP and all altogether different cabinet, just waiting in the wings to take over in the event of a crisis.....it's a smart way to look at a potential situation.  A shadow Government for Derby's book is thousands of people (mostly retirees), chosen by the government, which excelled in their given fields, whether it be in nuclear physics or carpentry, etc. that would be saved and be able to lead America back into civilization in case of mass destruction from nuclear, chemical or biological warfare.<br />As you can guess, America is struck by a biological agent that kills millions of Americans.  It's a race against the clock to have the Shadow Government and the facilities that will house these people up and running before the terrorists unleash the weapon.<br />The plot is very solid.  It is evident that Mr. Derby uses his experience to create a chilling world.  The plot itself will keep you on the edge of your seat and while this does not give anything away, you are pleasantly surprised where the story turns in the end.  Characterization is a little on the thin side.  The pace of the plot made it difficult to really be able to identify with the characters....you really don't have the time to get to know them.  I think now, after 9-11, it's easier to identify with the emotions of the country in general.  The subplots of romance are weak, but easily ignored.  There are a few plot points that weighed the story down, rather than moved it along, but again, you turn the page waiting to see what will happen next.<br />All in all it's a good read.  I definitely recommend reading it and I will eagerly watch to see if Mr. Derby publishes another book in the future.	2002-10-09
US	52539039	R32313NAQIVBCL	1565116798	610885537	Report from Ground Zero	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Respectful, sad, insightful and loving	I commute into DC everyday and I like to spend my time listening to audios.  I am one of those people that have not been able to hear or see anything about 9/11/01 that doesn't bring tears to my eyes or makes my heart ache.  I work at a bookstore and happened to read the inside jacket of the hard-cover edition and I thought, &quot;This sounds like something I can handle.&quot;<br />Dennis Smith, a retired FDNY firefighter, wrote the book with compassion, respect and love for not just the victims, but also their families, the rescue workers and for everyone who was affected in one way or another.<br />The audio contains personal accounts from people who were directly involved.  Most of the stories are from firefighters and they are told so eloquently it's amazing.  I believe there are approximately six different readers for the CD edition and the emotion they infuse into it is incredible.  This story talks about the wonderful &quot;brotherhood&quot; amongst firefighters and the emotional and physical toll they went through as humans.<br />The stories made me grin in parts and made me cry in others.  It helped me to begin to deal with my feelings about that day and gave me, I don't know if hope is the right word, but a warm fuzzy feeling.<br />I do believe that if you are personally familiar with the &quot;brotherhood&quot; of firefighters (my father is a volunteer firefighter in our community) this will strike a chord of understanding.<br />I just can't say enough good things about this.  You won't be disappointed in this cd.	2002-09-21
US	52539039	R3QARLL4KZVG34	0399148779	18749417	Eleventh Hour (An FBI Thriller)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Coulter has genre issues	Synop:  Special Agent Dane Carver is the focus of this book in Catherine Coulter's FBI series.  He is a newcomer to Dillon Savich's elite FBI group.  Carver's twin is killed while listening to a killer's confession.  Unknown to the killer, there is a witness...a \\"homeless\\" woman running from her own problems.  With a few twists and turns Carver gets justice for his brother and saves the girl.<br />Critique:<br />I am a huge fan of novels that focus on the FBI, CIA, police departments etc.  Catherine Coulter is very well known for her success in romance.  THIS IS NOT A ROMANCE!!!  Coulter is trying her best to make this series detective fiction and really the byplay between the main male and female characters are to satisfy her loyal romance readers.  If you go into a bookstore this book and the rest in the series will be in Mystery NOT Romance.<br />Coulter's dialogue in this novel is stilted in quite a few places and the \\"romance\\" between Carver and \\"Nick\\" is almost contrived and really doesn't work well with the story.  The characters are well done and the plot flows nicely, even if it is predictable.<br />Honestly, if Coulter would make these books into the \\"romance\\" mold or stick with the pure \\"mystery\\" mold this series would be a lot better.  It's not a bad story.  I would recommend it to anyone looking to pass the time with an uncomplicated, quick read.	2002-08-28
US	52539039	RXEWTROAZLP5L	0671034006	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Great Romatic Suspense	Julie Garwood makes her first foray into the contemporary world.  Only a few days ago did I stumble across \\"Mercy\\" her second contemp. book.  I loved Mercy so much that I ran right out and bought \\"Heartbreaker\\".  I am a prolific reader (7-8 romances/fiction a week) and I thought I would share what I got out of this book.<br />Short Synop:<br />Nick Buchanan is a member of an elite FBI division who specialize in finding children.  After a particularly challenging case, where Nick kills the perp, he is ordered to take a vacation to try and avoid burning out.  Right before he leaves he gets a call from his best friend, Father Tom Madden.  \\"Heartbreaker,\\" who tells him he is going to kill his sister Laurent, visited Father Tom in the confessional booth.  He instructs Father Tom to call in Nick.<br />Nick of course rides to the rescue and the story progresses on with Nick and Laurent falling in love, trying to outsmart the killer and still save the town square from development.<br />Having read this book second, I did notice a couple of things that put me off.  Between this book and Mercy, she used quite a few phrases exactly the same in both books, which took me out of the story since they jumped out at me.<br />Other than that, this was a very good first book.  Nick and Laurent's characters were well done and believable, as was the story line.  I love novels about the FBI, CIA, policeman etc and this was pretty well written.  I wasn't even sure who the killer was until Ms. Garwood revealed it.  I'm usually hard to stump.<br />I think some of the secondary stories made this book a little more full, than it should have been.  I would like to have seen more interaction between Laurent and Nick so that the \\"falling in love\\" part didn't seem so rushed, but other than that this was a well-done book.  I gave it 3 stars since I think there is room for improvement (which I saw in Mercy which I gave 4 stars).	2002-08-23
US	52539039	R1ULBDAN1GANOJ	0671034022	378094364	Mercy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First time JG reader and WOW!	I am not a fan of historical romances so I have never picked up a Garwood book. I work in a bookstore and have read most of the descriptions and I know how popular she is...<br />Mercy was excellent. I really enjoy the tight romantic suspense and she def. made me feel for the characters. True it did seem a little busy with the sheer number of characters involved, but it was easy to navigate. If you enjoy romantic suspense I HIGHLY recommend this book, if you spook easily and/or live alone.....maybe this won't be your cup of tea :-)<br />As an addition:  DO NOT BUY the audio book read by Terrence Mann.  I listen to audios all the time (my commute is 2 and 1/2 hours every day) and I thought that since I loved the book so much, then the audio would be great to listen to.<br />Terrence Mann does a good job with the different accents in the book (Cajun, Boston) but he has no sense of emotion and he smacks his lips all throughout the production.  The sound became so grating and so pronounced (in my mind) that I couldn't even finish it.  I am hoping that Killjoy will be out on audio, but if he's the reader, there not a chance I will purchase it.	2002-08-20
US	52539039	RHZYW94H6TR08	0804119716	636903788	Out of Control (Troubleshooters, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yet another wonderful story	Suz just keeps on putting out the hits!  I really enjoyed this book as compared to her last one, Over the Edge.  Typically the multi storylines keeps me a little frustrated, only becuase I don't want to seitch gears in the middle of the stream LOL!!  While I would really like to see Suz write a story with no more than two storylines, her characters are just fabulous and you can't help but fall in love with them.<br />Wildcard and Savannah were great to follow and the other storylines were strong and well thought-out.  I will say, that as far as her books go, I would not recommend this to a first time Suz reader right off the bat.  There is a lot of strong language, that doesn't bother me, but someone less familiar with her SEALs may take offense.  Thank Suz for another great read!  Can't wait for Sam and Alyssa's story!!!	2002-03-21
US	52539039	R1HYG3MT9UVLHV	0373079915	649576534	Get Lucky (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 9)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Going out with a BANG!	For those of you who have faithfully kept up with Suz's Tall, Dark and Dangerous series, this one will not disappoint.  I have to admit that I wasn't a complete fan of the last two in the series (I liked them, but not  LOVED them) and was worried about how the last one would turn out.  Lucky  has finally grown up and what a &quot;man&quot; he turned into.  Blue is  still my favorite but after a second reading I may be a little fickle :-).  The characters are completely real and the plot is strong and keeps you  wanting more.  I read it in one sitting. Make sure you get a copy (and  ingore the horrendous cover), Suz, you have my condolences on the not so  attractive &quot;Lucky&quot; on the cover.  If you are new to the series,  don't hesitate to get the rest of them.  They are ALL keepers, as are all  of Suzanne Brockmann's stories.  Thanks, Suz, for a great SEAL series!	2000-03-02
US	52539039	R2AO060JIQ2UX9	0373078846	702996180	Harvard's Education (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 5)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Alpha Squad Does It Again!	This book, which is the fifth in the tall dark and dangerous series by  Suzanne Brockmann, is excellent.  Senior Chief &quot;Harvard&quot; Becker  finds out that some beliefs die hard.  He finds his match...intellectually  and combatively in P.J. Richards, a FinCom agent.  I was very happy to see  that P.J. was a virgin.  It added to the intellectual tension between them  as well as the sexual tension.  I thought that the characters could have  been involved in more action, but the ending (which I won't give away)  makes up for the lack of action throughout the novel.  Kudos to Suzanne  Brockmann for using an Afro-American hero!  I have to say though that  &quot;Forever Blue&quot; is still my favorite in the series.	1998-09-11
US	52539039	R2H99OG7YAILW9	0373078722	574758901	Everyday, Average Jones (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 4)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A must have for romance readers!!	Suzanne Brockmann brings the life of Navy SEALs into sharp focus with her mini-series Tall, Dark and Dangerous.  This is the fourth book in the series and it is excellent.  The characters, especially Lt. Harlan &quot;Cowboy&quot; Jones and Melody Evans, are completely realistic, they could be living next door to you or me, and I feel like I could visit Appleton and navigate my way around.  The book is a page turner, there is no doubt about it.  The emotion throughout this book is strong and compelling.  I felt like I was there watching the sparring and the loving between Mel and Cowboy.  It was definetely worth the wait and I can't wait to get Harvard's Education in October.	1998-08-03
