US	52544801	R9NY855QM0PYT	1583260102	623525295	Emerging Therapies: Using Herbs and Nutraceuticals for Small Animals	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Guide to Herbs &amp; Nutraceuticals for Veterinary Professionals	This thin volume is intended as an introduction to herbs and nutraceuticals for veterinary professionals who are interested in  incorporating some alternative treatment methods into their small animal  practice.  Dr. Wynn begins with the basic philosophy of holistic medicine  and explains how to do a holistic evaluation.  She then provides basic  sample treatment protocols using herbs and nutraceuticals for a variety of  ailments.  She tends to err on the conservative side, not recommending, for  instance, alternative treatments for heartworm disease although alternative  heartworm treatments are available and often effective.<br />   The most  interesting parts of the book are the two materia medicas: one for  nutraceutical supplements and one for herbs.  While not very comprehensive,  it's nice to have fully referenced material available in an area where  there are many unsubstantiated claims.  Each entry in the materia medica  describes the supplement's actions, use, contraindications, potential  adverse effects, and dosage. <BR> All in all, a nonessential but nice  addition to the library of the holistic animal health professional or the  veterinary practitioner seeking to incorporate some alternative treatment  methods.	2000-08-30
US	52544801	R16WWBJ0RB4ZLC	1579540570	816021935	New Choices in Natural Healing for Dogs & Cats: Over 1,000 At-Home Remedies for Your Pet's Problems	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Gentle Introduction to Natural Remedies for Pets	Similar in format to Martin Zucker's &quot;Veterinarians Guide to Natural Remedies for Dogs/Cats,&quot; this book is a worthwhile choice for anyone  wanting to take greater responsibility for their animal's health.  Those  who have been into natural rearing for a while will not find much new  information here, but I recommend it highly to anyone just beginning to get  interested in holistic health care for animals.<BR> The book is divided  into three parts.  Part one explains the difference between holistic and  allopathic health care and explains what to expect when consulting a  holistic veterinarian. Part two provides a brief overview of a variety of  natural therapies including acupressure, aromatherapy, crystal therapy,  massage and therapeutic touch, flower remedies, herbs, and homeopathy.   There's also a chapter on nutrition and while natural homeprepared diets  are recommended, not enough details are provided to enable the pet owner to  formulate a balanced homemade diet.  What's unusual for a holistic pet care  book is that the controversial but very important issue of vaccinations is  barely mentioned at all.<BR> Part three, the main section of the book, is  an A-Z guide to over 100 canine and feline ailments from acne and  aggression to worms and wounds.  Each entry briefly describes the  signs/symptoms of the ailment, the cause, and the possible solutions.   Don't expect in-depth treatment plans here (for instance, the book doesn't  even mention that alternative heartworm treatments exist); just simple,  natural home remedies.  Alternative medicine success stories can be found  throughout the text and there's also an alternative healing resource guide  in the back.	2000-08-24
US	52544801	R2JXE9ZKDIPLED	0679455000	936743454	The Nature of Animal Healing: The Path to Your Pet's Health, Happiness, and Longevity	Books	5	119	120	N	N	Wonderful Introduction to Holistic Pet Care	While written for the average pet owner who is not familiar with terms such as vaccinosis or nosodes, even those of us who have been into natural  rearing for a long time can find some useful information in this book.  The  section on heartworm, for instance, is excellent.  Few vets are even aware  of the fact that alternative heartworm prevention and treatment methods  exist.  Also excellent: the chapters on vaccinations and the nature of  disease.<BR> The chapter on nutrition points the reader in the right  direction (i.e., away from processed pet foods and toward homeprepared  fresh food diets), but there's not enough information to enable readers to  formulate a balanced homemade diet for their dogs or cats (Dr. Pitcairn's  book is better in that regard).  <BR> Dr. Goldstein is not a classical  homeopath and some people may object to his use of homeopathic remedies.   Nonetheless, his A-Z guide to canine/feline ailments and their possible  cures is thorough and full of useful information.  He uses dietary  supplements, glandulars, Western and Chinese herbs, homeopathy, flower  remedies, and occasionally even allopathic drugs.  His motto seems to be  &quot;whatever works.&quot;  The chapter on cancer is good but would have  been even better if Dr. Goldstein had addressed the important dietary  guidelines for cancer patients and survivors.<BR>   The book concludes with  a wonderful chapter on the spiritual connection between us and our animals  and a great chapter on coping with the death of a beloved pet.	2000-08-23
US	52544801	R1OMZA6ORYPQD0	0812097106	597788927	Show Me!	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Excellent Intro to Showing	I've read just about every book on showing, and this is the best  introduction to the world of dog shows I've seen.  I wish more exhibitors  shared Caroline Coile's wonderful attitude about showing dogs.  She covers  everything from finding and raising that show quality puppy, basic stacking  and gaiting (with helpful color photographs), entering shows and what to do  when you get there, and problem solving techniques, to good sportsmanship  and suggestions on how to avoid common pitfalls.  And she does it all with  a great sense of humor -- an important quality to have when you're showing  dogs!	2000-08-03
US	52544801	R34HALR4PYK3B3	0852072570	98351356	A Veterinary Materia Medica and Clinical Repertory: With Materia Medica of the Nosodes	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Useful But Not Very Comprehensive	A veterinary materia medica and repertory -- what a great idea! However,  this very compact book will not eliminate the need for a standard materia  medica and repertory, nor is it intended to. The materia medica catalogues  only about 280 remedies (listed alphabetically). Each entry includes  information about the remedy's origin, the major actions on the body  systems, and some of the most common uses of the remedy. While the entries  for some of the major remedies span over a page, other entries take up only  a small paragraph, and Dr. Macleod concedes that there is much more that  could be written about each remedy's actions and indications. Clearly his  book is meant to be used in conjunction with a more comprehensive standard  materia medica. The materia medica of the nosodes also includes a guide to  using nosodes therapeutically as well as prophylactically (though the  effectiveness of the latter is somewhat controversial in classical  homeopathy circles). Finally there is a brief clinical repertory that lists  common ailments (no detailed lists of symptoms as is the case with more  comprehensive standard repertories) and some of the remedies that may be  indicated for their treatment. The list of remedies is by no means  exhaustive, so further research may well be necessary to find the correct  remedy.	2000-08-03
US	52544801	R202KX25PH5227	0852072872	872125774	Homoeopathic Medicine for Dogs: A Handbook for Vets and Pet Owners	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Covers Wide Range of Canine Ailments	Like other books on homeopathy, this book is best used together with a comprehensive materia medica.  It's important to keep in mind that the listed remedies are suggestions only and may or may not fit the individual  patient's symptom picture.  Having said that, this book covers a wider  range of ailments than most books on veterinary homeopathy.  The  introduction to homeopathy section, however, is very brief and there is  little information on taking a case and selecting the correct remedy, so  this is not the best book for someone new to homeopathy (check out books by  Dr. Don Hamilton or Dr. Christopher Day first).<br />  In addition to the  guide to canine ailments, there are descriptions of thirteen constitutional  types, excerpts from readers' letters, and some interesting essays on  veterinary homeopathy including one on homeopathic alternatives to  vaccinations.	2000-07-23
US	52544801	R1HLMEXX8IRU4Z	0890877904	998368088	Four Paws, Five Directions: A Guide to Chinese Medicine for Cats and Dogs	Books	5	202	204	N	N	Excellent Intro to TCM for Cats &amp; Dogs	As a student of TCM and animal nutrition consultant I can't recommend Dr. Schwartz' book highly enough.  You simply couldn't ask for a better introduction to Traditional Chinese Medicine for cats and dogs.  In the  first section, Dr. Schwartz introduces us to the theory behind TCM.  She  explains the basics of the Five Element Theory, the Meridians, the Eight  Principles, and the Vital Essences in a way that is easy to understand even  without prior knowledge of TCM.  <BR> Section two begins with a chapter on  diagnosis using the Traditional Chinese physical exam.  In the following  chapters, Dr. Schwartz introduces the primary holistic therapies used in  TCM: Herbology, Food Therapy, and Acupressure/Acupuncture (emphasis is on  acupressure and this chapter is illustrated with color photos of dogs and  cats depicting the meridians as well as acupressure points).  <BR> In  section three the information from sections one and two is applied to  correct a variety of health imbalances.  Dr. Schwartz recommends herbs  (Chinese &amp; Western), dietary modifications, nutritional supplements,  and acupressure points for health conditions/imbalances involving the eyes,  ears, nose and upper respiratory system, teeth and gums, lungs, heart,  liver and gall bladder, spleen/pancreas and stomach, kidneys and urinary  bladder, large intestine, bones and muscle, skin, and the immune system and  glands.  It's wonderful to see a book on natural remedies that focuses on  correcting the underlying imbalance instead of simply using herbs and  supplements to eliminate symptoms.  Highly recommended!	2000-07-18
US	52544801	R3T44H73QNGX1L	085207218X	48795032	Dogs: Homoeopathic Remedies	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Best For Those Experienced In The Use Of Homeopathy	This book is a good resource for those with some experience in the use of homeopathic remedies.  It's definitely not the first book on homeopathy you should be reading, as it will not tell you how to take a case, choose the  most appropriate remedy, select potency and repetitions, and recognize  signs of a cure or partial cure as well as the signs of suppression or a  noncurative aggravation.  For an excellent introduction to veterinary  homeopathy, check out books by Dr. Don Hamilton and Dr. Christopher  Day.<BR>  Dr. Macleod's book lists some of the major remedies for a large  variety of canine ailments (arranged according to body system) with a brief  description of the symptom picture that would call for a particular remedy.   Of course the list of remedies is not exhaustive and this book is not  intended to substitute for looking up the remedies in a comprehensive  materia medica.	2000-07-16
US	52544801	R18VKWEUEENIFH	1883010551	354802267	Herbal Homekeeping: Simple Recipes for a Naturally Clean Abode	Books	1	29	30	N	N	Neither Herbal, Nor Safe &amp; Natural	We do not use any chemicals around the house or yard and certainly not on our animals, and I've been making my own all-natural household cleaning products for many years.  I picked up this little book hoping to get more  useful ideas for natural cleaning products but was very disappointed to  find that almost all of the recipes use SLS (sodium lauryl sulfate) -- not  my idea of safe and natural.  Also, calling the book &quot;Herbal  Homekeeping&quot; is really a misnomer since only a couple of the recipes  call for herbal infusions; the rest use essential oils and while there's  nothing wrong with that, it will surely be disappointing to those who  purchased the book hoping to find housecleaning recipes using herbs. <br />  Apart from the author's reliance on the chemical SLS, my biggest problem  with the book is the section on recipes for cats, dogs, and horses.  While  properly diluted essential oils -- with some important exceptions -- are  fine to use on dogs, essential oils should *not* be used to treat cats,  since cats do not effectively metabolize essential oils (use herbs or  hydrosols instead).  However, the recipes presented here aren't safe for  use on dogs either.  The first problem is the dilution.  Depending on the  essential oils used, a 2% to 7% dilution works well for most dogs, but  Sandy Maine's Flea Free Oil calls for a 60%-70% dilution!  As if that  wasn't bad enough, one of the EOs in the recipe is white cedar, a.k.a.  thuja.  White cedar (not to be confused with atlas cedarwood) is not used  in aromatherapy and for good reason: it's high thujone levels act as a  dangerous neurotoxin.  Tiny amounts of thuja have traditionally been used  externally to burn off warts -- this is definitely not an essential oil you  want to rub on your animal's coat and skin!	2000-07-08
US	52544801	R2GYVIX6MX4YL3	0812097106	597788927	Show Me!	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Excellent Intro to Showing	I've read just about every book on showing, and this is the best  introduction to the world of dog shows I've seen.  I wish more exhibitors  shared Caroline Coile's wonderful attitude about showing dogs.  She covers  everything from finding and raising that show quality puppy, basic stacking  and gaiting (with helpful color photographs), entering shows and what to do  when you get there, and problem solving techniques, to good sportsmanship  and suggestions on how to avoid common pitfalls.  And she does it all with  a great sense of humor -- an important quality to have when you're showing  dogs.	2000-07-08
US	52544801	R1DEOLZ3KTLLQ7	085131693X	740757371	The Holistic Management of Dogs	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	At least half of this rather thin but costly book consists of general information about canine evolution, common dog breeds, physiology of the dog, selecting a puppy, housetraining, etc.  The chapter on holistic  feeding provides only very basic information that does not enable readers  to create a balanced homemade diet for their dogs, and the sections on  homeopathy, herbal medicine, acupuncture, and physiotherapy serve as little  more than a brief introduction to these holistic therapies.  Finally there  is a short (15 pages) A-Z guide to the holistic treatment of some common  canine ailments.<BR> There are far more comprehensive (and less expensive)  books on natural dog rearing available.	2000-07-05
US	52544801	R3RPMJ1WEC86UF	1582700230	355890001	The Holistic Animal Handbook: A Guidebook to Nutrition, Health, and Communication	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Raw Diets, Flower Remedies &amp; Animal Communication	This handbook, written by two animal communicators, is meant to serve as an introduction to the holistic care of animals.  The book is divided into four parts.<BR> The first chapter deals with nutrition and the authors  point out some of the problems with feeding our canine and feline  companions processed foods.  They recommend raw diets, and the information  provided is basic but quite good.  Unlike many recipes/feeding instructions  in holistic/natural health books for dogs, the two recipes (one for cats  and one for dogs) presented here do not contain serious nutritional  imbalances (provided one doesn't go overboard with the cod liver oil and  uses bonemeal instead of substituting a multi-vitamin/mineral supplement  with calcium).<BR>   Chapter number two deals with using Bach flower  remedies to balance emotions.  This is the best and most thorough  discussion of flower remedies for animals I have seen in a book that is not  devoted exclusively to this one subject.<BR>      The third chapter is  entitled &quot;Natural Techniques for Balanced Living Situations&quot; and  describes some basic training techniques for dogs, cats, and horses.<BR>      The book's final chapter focuses on interspecies communication and while  much of it is too 'New Agey' for my taste, I'm sure it will appeal to many  other readers.<BR>   There's also a good resource directory featuring lists  of books, holistic vets, animal communicators, shops and mail order  catalogs, etc.	2000-07-04
US	52544801	R1EGGDS2F0HVSA	1880090473	681455225	The Holistic Veterinary Handbook: Safe, Effective Treatment Plans for the Companion Animal Practitioner	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not Essential Reading	This book is written primarily for vets and features basic treatment plans for various behavioral, digestive, CNS, mouth, eye and ear, skin, respiratory, glandular, urinary, reproductive, heart/circular disorders  plus basic treatment suggestions for cancer and trauma/infection utilizing  a variety of holistic therapies including acupuncture, homeopathy,  nutrition, herbal medicine, and massage.  Dr. Winter has also included  numerous &quot;client handouts&quot; with info on everything from dealing  with flea problems to treating hypothyroidism naturally.  There's also a  dosage table for herbs and nutritional supplements and a resource  guide.<BR> The treatment plans are *very* basic and I would consider them  no more than a very general guideline.  There is virtually no treatment  plan I would implement &quot;as is.&quot;  While published in 1997, this  book somehow seems quite a bit older.  Much of the information presented  wasn't cutting edge even in '96/'97 and it seems even more dated  now.<BR><br />Those looking for information on preparing a natural diet for  their animals will also be disappointed.  While Dr. Winter recommends  feeding homeprepared food, the client handout included does not provide  adequate information on preparing a properly balanced diet for dogs or  cats.  One of the problems with the diet he recommends for dogs is that it  includes just 20%-25% animal products (meat, eggs, dairy) which is much too  low for a healthy carnivore.<BR> For people who are relatively new to  holistic veterinary medicine, there are many better books available.  On  the other hand, if you already have a collection of books on natural  nutrition and holistic health care for dogs and cats and are looking for  more information and treatment ideas, you may want to add this one to your  library.	2000-07-02
US	52544801	R2G3KSI3ZLRUPF	0852072570	346826853	A Veterinary Materia Medica and Clinical Repertory: With Materia Medica of the Nosodes	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Useful But Not Very Comprehensive	A veterinary materia medica and repertory -- what a great idea!  However, this very compact book will not eliminate the need for a standard materia medica and repertory, nor is it intended to.  The materia medica catalogues  only about 280 remedies (listed alphabetically).  Each entry includes  information about the remedy's origin, the major actions on the body  systems, and some of the most common uses of the remedy.  While the entries  for some of the major remedies span over a page, other entries take up only  a small paragraph, and Dr. Macleod concedes that there is much more that  could be written about each remedy's actions and indications.  Clearly his  book is meant to be used in conjunction with a more comprehensive standard  materia medica.<BR> The materia medica of the nosodes also includes a guide  to using nosodes therapeutically as well as prophylactically (though the  effectiveness of the latter is somewhat controversial in classical  homeopathy circles).  Finally there is a brief clinical repertory that  lists common ailments (no detailed lists of symptoms as is the case with  more comprehensive standard repertories) and some of the remedies that may  be indicated for their treatment.  The list of remedies is by no means  exhaustive, so further research may well be necessary to find the correct  remedy.	2000-06-30
US	52544801	R1AHADNS7ZD44K	0876056168	855616584	Heal Your Dog the Natural Way	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Aromatherapy, Herbs, Homeopathy &amp; More For Dogs	In his nicely illustrated guide to natural remedies for canine ailments, the British homeopathic/holistic vet Dr. Allport focuses primarily on four major therapies: Aromatherapy, Homeopathy, Herbal Medicine, and Bach Flower  Remedies.  Discussed in less detail are acupuncture and TCM, T-Touch  massage, reflexology, color therapy, crystal and gemstone therapy,  iridology, chiropractic, radionics, dowsing, and osteopathy.<BR>   The main  part of the book consists of a guide to nearly a hundred different health  conditions that commonly affect dogs.  The ailments are ordered according  to body systems and each entry includes a brief description of the ailment  and its possible causes and typical symptoms.  This is followed by advice  on which natural remedies are most appropriate for treatment.  Some  interesting case studies are included as well.<BR> As an aromatherapist, I  am pleased that Dr. Allport has decided to include essential oil treatments  as one of his major therapies (these very effective natural remedies are  still used only rarely by holistic vets in the U.S.), even if the essential  oils he suggests to treat an ailment aren't always the ones I would choose.   I also wish he would he would gone into greater detail regarding methods  of administration and selecting quality oils.  The book's overall lack of  detail is its biggest drawback.  For instance, homeopathic remedies are  often recommended without any mention of the symptom picture that would  call for said remedy.  Example: For pancreatitis, Dr. Allport states,  &quot;Phosphorous and Iris vers. are both suitable remedies.&quot;  Well,  maybe.  Depending on the dog's symptom picture, one of these remedies may  indeed be indicated, but it's also very possible that the patient's  symptoms would call for an entirely different remedy.  I would not  recommend following the homeopathic suggestions in this book without first  consulting a homeopathic materia medica to ensure that the remedy is indeed  indicated.	2000-06-29
US	52544801	R2UOGKDPXSQVO9	1561706361	219189585	Natural Nutrition for Dogs and Cats: The Ultimate Diet	Books	3	448	475	N	N	Biologically Appropriate But Unnecessarily Restrictive	This is an only slightly revised/updated version of Schultze's original spiralbound book &quot;The Ultimate Diet.&quot;  There are several books on  feeding natural/raw/whole foods to dogs, and Schultze's book is the most  restrictive, as it does not allow any grains, dairy products, blackstrap  molasses, or raw honey (which many experienced breeders using holistic  methods consider a &quot;must&quot; in dog rearing).  Unfortunately many  people new to raw feeding read Schultze's book and become convinced that  giving their dogs even small amounts of whole grains or a little yogurt  with raw honey is tantamount to poisoning them!  Those of us who have been  feeding a fresh foods diet for decades know that nothing is farther from  the truth, but Kymythy believes that *all* dogs do better without grains,  dairy, honey, etc., and of course her book includes testimonials only from  people who agree with her.  While it's true that some dogs do indeed fare  better on a no grains/no dairy diet, others do much better on a more varied  diet that includes small amounts of whole grains, yogurt or kefir,  blackstrap molasses, and other foods Schultze feels should be avoided.<BR>       My biggest problem with this book, however, is that Schultze repeatedly  passes of some rather controversial opinions as scientific fact.  Not  surprisingly, no footnotes are provided to back up any of her claims.  She  also uses the cancer research from Colorado State's veterinary school to  imply that feeding grains and dairy products causes cancer.  While it's  correct that a diet high in certain fats and low in simple carbs is  recommended for dogs with cancer (as well as those in remission), there is  absolutely no evidence that a diet without grains and dairy products helps  to *prevent* cancer.  In fact, even the cancer diet recommended by Colorado  State includes small amounts of whole grains.  Cancer causes metabolic  changes in the body which makes what is optimal for dogs with cancer not  necessarily optimal for healthy dogs.<BR>   Of course I'm not recommending  a grain-based diet (I agree that raw muscle and organ meats and meaty bones  should make up the bulk of the canine diet), but small amounts of whole  grain and cultured dairy products (e.g., yogurt, kefir) can add variety and  valuable nutrients to the diet.  Dogs, like humans, are individuals and  it's important to remember that there is no one diet that is perfect for  every dog.<BR> Depending on the exact composition of Schultze's diet,  deficiencies in certain nutrients are quite possible, and I would  definitely not recommend a diet so low in carbohydrates for in-whelp  bitches.  On the other hand, if you have a dog with cancer or allergies to  grains/dairy, this diet may be just what you've been looking for.  It's  easy to follow, but I do suggest reading a little more on canine nutrition.	2000-06-27
US	52544801	R17MH3UHMGOOC5	0609803727	797372457	Veterinarians Guide to Natural Remedies for Dogs: Safe and Effective Alternative Treatments and Healing Techniques from the Nations Top Holistic Veterinarians	Books	4	149	152	N	N	Good Intro to Natural Remedies for Dogs	Martin Zucker has interviewed over thirty holistic vets for this book.  They share which supplements, dietary changes, herbs, homeopathic remedies, or flower essences they have found to be effective for conditions ranging  from arthritis and cancer to parasites and yeast infections.  If you've  been into natural rearing for a while, few of the suggestions will be new  to you, but the book is nonetheless a nice resource.<BR>   In addition to  the A-Z index of canine health problems and suggested natural remedies,  there are brief chapters introducing various holistic therapies (herbs,  nutritional supplements, homeopathic remedies, flower essences,  acupuncture, chiropractic, and massage techniques), plus chapters on  vaccinations/titers and nutrition.  However, while it's great that the  holistic vets interviewed for this book are advocating fresh food diets,  the information presented in the chapter on homemade meals is not  sufficient to enable anyone to prepare a balanced homemade diet for their  dog(s).  For properly balanced fresh food diet plans, check out books by  Billinghurst, Volhard, or Pitcairn.  I also have to disagree with the  section on feeding bones -- in my experience with natural dog rearing and  as an animal nutrition consultant I have found that softer, raw bones such  as chicken necks or backs that are consumed in their entirety are far safer  than the big, hard beef bones recommended in the book.	2000-06-25
US	52544801	R1YNNNSNCSHSW5	1561706663	656709943	Natural Healing for Dogs and Cats A-Z	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Great Gift for the Holistically Minded Dog or Cat Lover	This beautifully illustrated, colorful, spiralbound hardcover book would make a great gift for the dog or cat lover with an interest in natural remedies for animals.  Of course it's nowhere near as thorough as Dr.  Schwartz' excellent &quot;Four Paws, Five Directions,&quot; but this A-Z  guide to dozens of ailments (from abscesses and arthritis to worms and  yawning) is nonetheless a solid reference for those who prefer to tackle  health problems with nutrition, herbs, homeopathy, and massage instead of  drugs and chemical insecticides.  Don't expect elaborate treatment plans  and diagnosis techniques from this little book -- just safe and natural  remedies you can try at home.  And yes, Dr. Schwartz does take care to  point out when it's a good idea to see a professional for  diagnosis/treatment.	2000-03-25
US	52544801	RAGK7TXBNBQ7O	0852072163	816374364	The Homoeopathic Treatment of Small Animals: Principles & Practice	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Still One Of The Best Books On Veterinary Homeopathy!	For many years this was my favorite book on veterinary homeopathy, and it's still near the very top of my list.  Unlike a number of books on veterinary homeopathy that suggest remedies for specific conditions almost  as if they were allopathic drugs, Dr. Day devotes quite a bit of space to  case taking, the various methods used to finding the correct remedy, and  case management.  He even touches upon constitutional prescribing for  chronic disease, but makes it clear that nobody can hope to successfully  prescribe remedies for chronic conditions after reading only a few books.  There is much emphasis on the need to keep reading and studying if one  hopes to become successful at homeopathic prescribing.<br />Dr. Day's  &quot;symptoms of disease with some recommended remedies&quot; chapter  follows the basic layout of Kent's repertory for the various body systems  and is very easy to use.  There are further chapters on homeopathic first  aid, treatment of specific disease (e.g., parvo, distemper, kennel cough),  mental problems, special problems affecting the young and the old,  prevention of disease, and the relationship of homeopathy to conventional  medicine and diagnosis (includes section on vaccinosis and drugs capable of  blocking homeopathic treatment).  Dr. Day also includes some helpful case  studies in which different levels of prescribing were used (e.g.,  constitutional treatment, treatment of underlying pathology, treatment at  the presenting symptom level, etc.).  This is followed up with a materia  medica of key remedies, a glossary of homeopathic terms, and brief sections  on miasm theory, nosodes, and nutrition.  All in all, highly recommended  for anyone with an interest in veterinary homeopathy.	2000-03-25
US	52544801	R1Z67Z7L2HTQSF	0892817437	678373710	Advanced Aromatherapy: The Science of Essential Oil Therapy	Books	5	386	386	N	N	Essential Reading For Those Serious About Aromatherapy	In a field where so many books are filled with unproven claims, outright falsehoods, and just plain fluff, Kurt Schnaubelt's books stand out as serious, well researched works that accord aromatherapy the respect it  deserves.<br />By focusing on the chemistry of essential oils, we learn *why*  an essential oil works the way it does and how different chemotypes of the  same EO can have vastly different effects (an important issue that is  completely ignored by many aromatherapy books).  We also learn why some EOs  must be used with great caution.  Dozens of oils are profiled with  diagrams, lists of primary effects and contraindications, etc.  There is  also a chapter with proven recipes for a variety of physical,  psychological, and cosmetic conditions.  All methods of application are  covered (including those well established in Europe but rarely used in the  U.S., e.g., suppositories), and Dr. Schnaubelt candidly states where  essential oil therapy is most effective (e.g., infectious diseases,  hormonal imbalances, and problems affecting the psyche and nervous system)  as well as where aromatherapy has relatively little to offer (allergic and  autoimmune conditions as well as chronic metabolic and degenerative  conditions).<br />What makes Advanced Aromatherapy even more of a gem is that  Dr. Schnaubelt integrates the science of aromatherapy into a holistic  rather than an allopathic framework and gives pointers on selecting the  appropriate EOs by taking into account the totality of the patient's  symptoms.	2000-01-29
US	52544801	RGT216943MCBN	0939165317	148916683	Food Pets Die for: Shocking Facts About Pet Food	Books	4	299	314	N	N	Good Info on Commercial Pet Food - Bad Info on Homemade Diet	Ann Martin's investigation into the commercial pet food industry has become a classic.  This is the book I often recommend when people ask me what's wrong with (most) commercial dog and cat foods.  However, I can't  recommend this book without pointing out some of the errors in the second  part of the book, the part that focuses on feeding a homemade diet.<BR>  First of all, it needs to be said that while cooking the meat can indeed  destroy bacteria and parasites (as well as destroying valuable enzymes and  changing the meat's molecular structure), cooking does *not* destroy the  antibiotics, pesticides, artificial growth hormones, etc., as Martin  claims.  The only way to avoid these harmful substances is to stop  supporting factory farming and buy ethically raised, organic meats.  Yes,  such meat is more expensive, but personally I'd rather pay more and know  that I'm not supporting the needless torture of animals and the destruction  of the environment.  At this point you may wonder why we feed our dogs meat  at all.  Well, the humans in our house are indeed longtime vegetarians, but  dogs are carnivores and while they can survive on a properly supplemented  vegetarian diet, such a species inappropriate diet is far from ideal.  Our  family's GWPs have been thriving on a diet based on raw meats and bones for  thirty years now.  While it's been my experience that raw diets are indeed  preferable for most dogs, there are certainly cases where cooked diets are  more appropriate.  Some dogs -- usually due to certain medical conditions  -- simply do not do well on a raw diet, and in such cases a homecooked diet  is the best option.<BR> Unfortunately the recipes offered by Ms. Martin are  not properly balanced.  For instance, while she is clearly aware of the  correct calcium to phosphorous ratio (as well as of the damage caused by  calcium deficiencies), her recipes do not contain nearly enough calcium to  balance out the high phosphorous levels of the meat and, to alesser  extent, the grains.  She seems to be under the impression that one can use  yogurt or cottage cheese as a calcium supplement; however, while dairy  products are good sources of calcium, they also happen to contain plenty of  phosphorous (some types of cottage cheese actually contain more phosphorous  than calcium), so obviously dairy products cannot be used to balance the  meat's high phosphorous levels.  The best way to supplement calcium is to  feed the meat with plenty of raw bone (nature's way of balancing calcium  and phosphorous) or by adding ground eggshell powder to boneless meats.   Feeding a properly balanced homeprepared diet really isn't as difficult as  the pet food industry and their supporters would have us believe, but  getting the Ca:P ratio right is important.<BR> My suggestion: Read Ms.  Martin's book to find out why it's not a good idea to feed processed pet  foods (if you don't already know), but then get yourself another book to  learn how to prepare a balanced homemade diet for your animals.	2000-01-26
US	52544801	R1R6B77T2KN56K	1880090473	681455225	The Holistic Veterinary Handbook: Safe, Effective Treatment Plans for the Companion Animal Practitioner	Books	3	25	29	N	N	Not Essential Reading	This book is written primarily for vets and features basic treatment plans for various behavioral, digestive, CNS, mouth, eye and ear, skin,  respiratory, glandular, urinary, reproductive, heart/circular disorders  plus basic treatment suggestions for cancer and trauma/infection utilizing  a variety of holistic therapies including acupuncture, homeopathy,  nutrition, herbal medicine, and massage.  Dr. Winter has also included  numerous &quot;client handouts&quot; with info on everything from dealing  with flea problems to treating hypothyroidism naturally.  There's also a  dosage table for herbs and nutritional supplements and a resource  guide.<BR> The treatment plans are *very* basic and I would consider them  no more than a very general guideline.  There is virtually no treatment  plan I would implement &quot;as is.&quot;  While published in 1997, this  book somehow seems quite a bit older.  Much of the information presented  wasn't cutting edge even in '96/'97 and it seems even more dated now.   Those looking for information on preparing a natural diet for their animals  will also be disappointed.  While Dr. Winter recommends feeding  homeprepared food, the client handout included does not provide adequate  information on preparing a properly balanced diet for dogs or cats.  One of  the problems with the diet he recommends for dogs is that it includes just  20%-25% animal products (meat, eggs, dairy) which is way too low for a  healthy carnivore.<BR> For people who are relatively new to holistic  veterinary medicine, there are many better books available.  On the other  hand, if you already have a collection of books on natural nutrition and  holistic health care for dogs and cats and are looking for more information  and treatment ideas, you may want to add this one to your library.	2000-01-24
US	52544801	RAPDIEW60N09O	155643295X	690516252	Homeopathic Care for Cats and Dogs: Small Doses for Small Animals	Books	5	82	83	N	N	The BEST Book on Veterinary Homeopathy	I have read just about every book on veterinary homeopathy and this one is the best!  In fact, because of the excellent chapters on the nature of disease and vaccinations, I recommend this book even for dog and cat lovers  who have no interest in homeopathy.<BR>   This book is an absolute  must-read for anyone interested in treating their dog or cat with  homeopathic remedies.  Unfortunately too many people, being unaccustomed to  a holistic concept of health, use homeopathic remedies in a decidedly  allopathic manner; i.e., they choose a homeopathic remedy the way they  would choose a drug, without taking into account the totality of the  patient's symptoms and conditions.  Dr. Hamilton tells you what you need to  know to treat acute and minor health problems homeopathically (chronic  illness needs to be treated by an experienced veterinary homeopath): how to  take a case, choose a remedy, handle and administer remedies, select  potency and repetitions, and recognize signs of a cure or partial cure as  well as the signs of suppression or a noncurative aggravation (contrary to  popular belief, not every aggravation signals a positive healing crisis).   He also covers the very important subject of eliminating obstacles to a  cure (e.g., low-quality processed foods, vaccinations, unnecessary  stress).<BR>   Dr. Hamilton also includes a Materia Medica that, while  brief, is very accurate.  Those with a serious interest in homeopathy will  probably want to invest in at least one comprehensive materia medica and  repertory though.<BR> Like the previous reviewer, I disagree with Dr.  Hamilton's views on purebred dogs.  IME, it's simply a myth that mixed  breeds today are inherently healthier than purebred dogs.  Our German  Wirehaired Pointers are naturally reared and in excellent health!	2000-01-20
US	52544801	R2YQXJQYGKQ25U	1580910041	112060733	Nutrition (Natural Pet Care Pocket)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Skip This One	While the author of this little book states that feeding a homeprepared diet is optimal, she doesn't include nearly enough information to enable people to formulate a balanced diet for their dogs or cats.  Moreover, like  the authors of many dog food cook books, Newman takes what would be a  healthy diet for humans and applies it to dogs and cats as if we were all  the same species with the same dietary requirements.  This is not the case.   For instance, being carnivores, dogs and cats, with few exceptions, have  no nutritional requirement for carbohydrates.  While dogs often do well  with small amounts of whole grains in their diet (we feed two small grain  meals a week), the bulk of their diet should consist of raw meat and bones.   This brings me to my next problem with this book: Newman states that dogs  and cats &quot;have been domesticated for so long that they have become  processed food eaters,&quot; and consequently are no longer able to digest  raw meat and bones.  She seems to forget that processed pet foods didn't  become popular until earlier this century -- hardly long enough to stamp  out thousands of years of evolution.  Can dogs digest raw meat and bones?   While there are a few health problems that call for a cooked foods diet,  the vast majority of dogs and cats benefit enormously from eating raw meats  and bones.  Our family has been raising dogs naturally for nearly three  decades and their exceptional health is in large part the result of their  biologically appropriate raw diet.  Over the years I have assisted many  people in switching their animals, young and old, to a raw foods diet, and  the results have always been extremely positive.  <br />The book's section on  vitamins and minerals isn't bad, but unfortunately some of the information  is incorrect (e.g., the calcium:phosphorous ratio), while other important  information is omitted (e.g., the fact that cats are unable to convert  beta-carotene to Vitamin A).   The section on fasting and detoxification is  quite good, but I have a problem with the rather cavalier manner in which  homeopathic remedies are suggested throughout the book.  Homeopathy is a  fascinating but highly complex system of medicine, and remedies need to be  selected by taking into account the totality of the patient's symptoms.   When we make a blanket recommendation such as Arsenicum for appetite  problems (also known as the &quot;this for that&quot; approach), we are  using homeopathic remedies allopathically, and many would argue that we  aren't really practicing homeopathy at all.  Used in this manner,  homeopathic remedies are rarely effective, since it would be sheer luck if  we happened to select the correct remedy.    <br />Newman does a good job of  discussing the problems with commercial pet foods, but other books do it  just as well or better, while also providing sound advice for those  interested in feeding their animals a fresh foods diet.	1999-10-18
US	52544801	RZAU3W2L7TABX	0449005143	609698622	Keep Your Dog Healthy the Natural Way	Books	3	63	66	N	N	Good Intro to Natural Dog Care but Skip Chapter on Nutrition	This is a new, completely revised edition of Lazarus' &quot;Keep Your Pet Healthy the Natural Way&quot; except that she has chosen to write a separate book on natural cat care this time around.  As with her first book  which was published 15+ years ago, Lazarus did the research for this book  by sending questionnaires to a number of holistic vets.  As a result, we  get the views and treatment approaches of a number of different vets  (including Dr. Martin Goldstein, Dr. John Fudens, Dr. Carvel Tiekert,  etc.).  Unfortunately not all of the advice has been updated (some of it  appeared in her first book), and she does not point out which  recommendations were given by the vets 15 years ago and which ones are  current.<br />The first part of the book deals with preventing disease.  It starts with a chapter on the problems with commercial foods which should  be interesting to those not already familiar with Ann Martin's, Dr.  Goldstein's, or Dr. Pitcairn's books.  Then Lazarus goes into feeding a  natural diet, and this is definitely the worst part of the book, since the  diet she recommends is dangerously unbalanced.  It does not contain nearly  enough calcium to balance out the high phosphorous levels in the meats and  grains she recommends feeding.  Also, a diet consisting of just 33% - 50%  raw meat is not really optimal for a healthy canine.  Dogs, after all, are  carnivores, and our long experience with natural rearing and feeding  indicates that they tend to do best on a diet that consists of 75% raw meat  and bones.  Unfortunately Lazarus does not really approve of feeding bones.  She says that of the 10 holistic vets she questioned on this subject, 7  said not to give any bones, 2 said that only a specific type of bone was  okay (e.g., ox tails), and only one vet was completely in favor of feeding  bones.  Feeding bones remains a controversial subject and many vets are  only now coming around to the idea that bones are an important part of the  canine diet (see Dr. Goldstein's recent book).  Not only do they supply the  calcium that is necessary to balance out the high phosphorous content of  the meat, but they also supply numerous other valuable minerals and trace  minerals.  Most importantly perhaps, feeding soft, raw bones (stay away  from those big beef femur bones as they can wear down and even break teeth  and never feed cooked bones which are dangerous since they are dry and  brittle and splinter easily in addition to being difficult to digest) will  prevent your dogs from developing tooth or gum problems which present an  enormous health hazard.  Your dogs will never have to be put under to have  their teeth cleaned.  Our dogs have been eating raw bones (along with other  foods) for almost thirty years and their health could not be any better.  It's really best to skip the chapter on nutrition and go straight to  the chapter on vaccinations.  Lazarus covers the potential dangers of  vaccinating, nosodes, making vaccination decisions, and minimizing the  harmful effects of vaccines.  IMO, she is a little too enthusiastic about  using homeopathic nosodes instead of vaccines.  Not only does it violate  the principles of classical homeopathy to use nosodes as routine  preventatives the same way one would use a vaccine, but it's my experience  that nosodes simply aren't very effective when used in this manner in hopes  of preventing the most dangerous viral diseases (i.e., parvo and  distemper).  This is not to say that vaccinations are always effective or  that one should definitely vaccinate, but I've often seen nosodes give  people a false sense of security which is not a good thing.<br />The second  part of Lazarus' book deals with natural therapies for skeletal disease,  eye problems, skin and coat problems, infectious diseases, cancer,  diabetes, cystitis, parasites, kidney disorders, heart problems, etc.  This  is definitely the best part of the book, since it's interesting to read how  holistic vets across thecountry treat these problems.  The book also  contains a nationwide directory of holistic vets which will be helpful to  those looking for a holistic vet in their area.<br />All in all, this would  have made a pretty good introduction to holistic health care for dogs if it  wasn't for the terrible chapter on nutrition.  That makes it suitable as an  introductory book only if it's purchased along with a good book on feeding  a natural diet (check out books by Juliette de Bairacli Levy, Wendy  Volhard, Dr. Pitcairn, and Dr. Billinghurst on this topic).vets across the country treat these problems.  The book also  contains a nationwide directory of holistic vets which will be helpful to  those looking for a holistic vet in their area.<br />All in all, this would  have made a pretty good introduction to holistic health care for dogs if it  wasn't for the terrible chapter on nutrition.  That makes it suitable as an  introductory book only if it's purchased along with a good book on feeding  a natural diet (check out books by Juliette de Bairacli Levy, Wendy  Volhard, Dr. Pitcairn, and Dr. Billinghurst on this topic).	1999-09-13
US	52544801	R3OUZQELAIOQHZ	0876055609	541677813	The Holistic Guide for a Healthy Dog	Books	5	104	106	N	N	A More Technical Approach To Holistic Veterinary Care	This is another one of those books that I recommend to everyone interested in holistic care for their canine companions.  It's somewhat more technical and scientific in its approach than the equally superb books by Pitcairn  and Levy, but that shouldn't put anyone off.  Volhard begins with several  excellent chapters on canine nutrition which include a very detailed  section on supplements.  For those determined to feed a commercial food,  she provides info on how to read labels, which ingredients to look for and  what to avoid.  Next she addresses the common problems of allergies and  toxins in our dogs' environment, foods, and water, as well as drug and  vaccine reactions.  Instead of providing the reader with possible  alternatives to vaccinating (such as homeopathic nosodes), she recommends a  modified vaccine schedule using killed vaccines only for diseases endemic  in the area in question and doing titer tests instead of routinely giving  annual booster shots.  While this is certainly superior to the traditional  veterinary practice of needlessly subjecting dogs to potentially very  harmful annual combo vaccines, I much prefer Dr. Pitcairn's vaccination  schedule for those uncomfortable with using nosodes.  <br />Next, Volhard  explains the basics of the canine digestive tract and thyroid and adrenal  gland function.  This is followed by a chapter on laboratory tests and how  to figure out if your dogs' lab results are within normal parameters.    After this very technical chapter, Volhard dives into the rather  controversial subject of kinesiology which is basically a form of  biofeedback.  If (like me) you're the skeptical type, this will sound like  a bit of hocus pocus to you.  While I keep an open mind, I have yet to be  convinced that with this method one of my dogs can tell me -- through the  transfer of energy -- if she has a bacterial infection or needs extra liver  in her diet.<br />Like virtually everyone interested in a holistic approach to  dog rearing, Volhard recommends feeding a natural, homeprepared diet.   Unlike many other homeprepared diets, the one she recommends has been  clinically tested over a 12-year period, so you can rest assured that it is  perfectly balanced.  Volhard tells you exactly what and how much to feed as  well as how to supplement (there are exact charts for dogs of different  sizes).  The drawback of this diet is that it must be followed to the  letter.  There is no room for experimentation here.  Another problem is  that, like Pitcairn's diet, the Volhard diet contains too many grains.   Dogs are carnivores, and while there's nothing wrong with small amounts of  whole grains in the diet (unless of course a dog is allergic to all  grains), several cups a day are simply too much.  Less grains and more  pulped vegetables and raw meaty bones would be healthier and more  biologically appropriate.      <br />There are several short, very basic  chapters on herbal medicine, homeopathy, and other alternative therapies  (if you're interested in these subjects, you'll definitely want to read  more elsewhere).  Finally there is a simple but useful reference guide to  certain diseases and possible remedies, profiles of all the amino acids in  dogs, and a brief resource guide.	1999-05-12
US	52544801	RO4TCHBDZDGSF	0963239406	592924778	Reigning Cats & Dogs: Good Nutrition Healthy Happy Animals	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Uncomplicated Fresh Food Diet for Dogs &amp; Cats	This is a simple nutrition program based on raw meat and pureed raw veggies.  It's not a bad introduction to raw food diets for dogs and cats, but I would definitely recommend further reading on the subject matter.   Contains a good section on the different vegetables one can feed as well as  info on nutritional supplements, purified water, fasting, detoxification,  and natural flea control.  McKay does sell her own line of nutritional  supplements which she recommends in the book.	1999-05-10
US	52544801	R3IDK46L96F20V	0966474910	663005581	The Ultimate Diet : Natural Nutrition for Dogs and Cats	Books	3	34	41	N	N	Biologically Appropriate Nutrition for Dogs &amp; Cats	Having read just about every book on natural/raw/whole foods diets for dogs, I must say that this one is the most restrictive, as it does not allow any grains, dairy products (incl. organic yogurt with active  cultures), or raw honey (which many experienced breeders using holistic  methods consider a &quot;must&quot; in dog rearing).  Instead of modeling  her dogs' diet on that of wolves and wild dogs and allowing changes to best  tailor the diet to the individual dog, Schultze seems determined to  replicate the wild canine diet in every way possible (though she does  recommend mega doses of vitamin C, flax seed oil, and a couple of other  supplements which wouldn't be found in the wild).  She also has the bad  habit of passing off some rather controversial opinions as scientific fact  without providing any footnotes to back up her claims.  Having said all  that, the diet she recommends (which basically consists of raw muscle and  organ meats, raw meaty bones, crushed veggies, eggs, and supplements --  fruit, nuts, and seeds are optional) is biologically appropriate and easy  to follow for those new to raw feeding.  She even provides a sample monthly  menu, and the holistic yellow pages at the end are a nice touch.    <br />All  in all, not a bad book to start with, though you will definitely want to  learn more about canine nutrition.  If you have a dog with cancer or severe  food allergies, Schultze's diet may be just what you've been looking for,  but I feel it is unnecessarily restrictive for young, healthy animals.  I  urge you to read other books on this topic (in particular Levy and  Billinghurst), keep an open mind, and be prepared to experiment a little to  figure out what works best for your dogs.  Remember: There's no one diet  that's optimal for every dog.	1999-05-10
US	52544801	RE08X5JIND0R4	0571161154	246397817	The Complete Herbal Handbook for the Dog and Cat	Books	5	137	141	N	N	The Bible of the Natural Rearing Movement	This is the latest edition of Juliette de Bairacli Levy's (a.k.a. the grandmother of the natural rearing movement) classic Herbal Handbook for the Dog (cat owners will be more interested in the book she has written  specifically on holistic cat care).  Juliette has been breeding, naturally  rearing, showing, and traveling the world with her Champion Afghans since  the 1930s.  This book is dedicated to her Turkuman Afghan Hounds who  &quot;have never known disease.&quot;  As always, Juliette is opinionated,  uncompromising, cantankerous, and a tad eccentric, but also full of wisdom  and vast amounts of valuable info, and every one of her books makes a  fascinating read.  The first section of this book deals with nutrition (she  emphasizes the importance of feeding a raw diet), breeding and natural  rearing (no vaccines, insecticides, etc.) while the second part deals with  herbal remedies for everything from mange to distemper.  Of course most of  her suggestions are out of synch with current veterinary advice, but our  own naturally reared Wirehaired Pointers and many other dogs like them are  living proof that her methods work -- extremely well.  Our dogs have  remained disease and parasite-free without vaccines, worming pills,  insecticides, antibiotics, steroids, etc.  The best protection we can give  our beloved Wires is a strong immune system, and all of the above have the  effect of weakening our animals' immune systems.  Even if you are not ready  to go &quot;all natural,&quot; this book will make you question the  conventional wisdom and hopefully encourage you to further research the  many harmful practices (e.g., annual booster shots, combo vaccines,  antibiotics and/or steroids for every minor infection, routine wormings,  feeding of commercial convenience foods with highly questionable  ingredients, etc.) we have learned to accept as both necessary and  harmless.	1999-05-10
US	52544801	RC2B71XSX6DUB	0879837977	518745501	The Encyclopedia of Natural Pet Care	Books	5	68	71	N	N	Comprehensive, Up-to-date, Excellent!	There are several books along the same lines, but this highly comprehensive and up-to-date holistic health encyclopedia for pets is the best.  500+ pages of info on feeding a raw diet, supplements, aromatherapy,  herbal medicine, homeopathy, acupuncture, flower essences, hands-on  therapies such as acupressure and massage, holistic first aid strategies,  cancer treatments, the vaccination controversy, interviews with several  holistic vets, and an A-Z guide to ailments and their natural remedies.   Excellent!	1999-05-10
US	52544801	R28K82QUU9K51M	0875962432	207075292	Dr. Pitcairn's Complete Guide to Natural Health for Dogs & Cats	Books	4	91	97	N	N	Great Introduction to Holistic Dog &amp; Cat Care	This is often the first book I recommend to someone interested in learning about the holistic approach to dog and cat care.  Dr. Pitcairn includes info on the pet food industry and what's wrong with most commercial foods.   He then provides balanced recipes and ideas for feeding a homemade, natural  diet.  Unfortunately the diet he recommends is too high in grains (dogs and  cats are carnivores and if grains are fed at all, they should make up only  a small percentage of the foods fed -- raw muscle and organ meats, bones,  fish, pulped veggies, eggs, even fruit and nuts, are all more appropriate  foods for the canine or feline).  On a positive note, Pitcairn's perfectly  balanced &quot;fresh food kibble booster recipes&quot; are an excellent way  for those who are not ready to feed a diet that's entirely homemade to add  fresh foods to their animals' kibble several times a week.  Apart from  nutrition, Dr. Pitcairn addresses grooming and exercise, creating a  healthier living environment, natural and effective flea control,  alternative therapies, caring for a sick animal, handling emergencies, plus  a large A-Z section of pet ailments and their holistic treatments.  Since  Dr. Pitcairn is a homeopathic vet, it is not surprising that the focus is  often on homeopathic remedies.	1999-05-10
