US	52547971	R3RQUOS1GLZP82	0465046754	692787574	The Republican War on Science	Books	5	27	34	N	Y	The rise of shills, cronies and sycophants	Manipulating science for political ends has probably been around as long as politics but as in so many other ways the administration under President George W. Bush has taken abuse to a whole new level. Perhaps the most frightening symbol is the use of the Orwellian phrase, `Sound Science'. This innocuous sounding term is actually a euphemism for corporate friendly science meant to obfuscate and paralyze policy makers and the public. On this Republican's seem to have read straight from the playbook of Christian fundamentalists and their long battled against Evolution.<br /><br />Conservatives, like Bush, who enjoy viewing the world in black and white terms, see the cautious tone of science as timid and weak. The strength of science is its capacity for self correction and openness for debate on even the most established theories. There does, however, come a time when well established scientific theories reach a level of general consensus among scientist. In the case of Global Warming there is a strong scientific consensus around the world yet politicians would prefer to treat it as a he/said she/said affair so popular in journalism these days. As the author says, \\"[politicians seem to believe that] scientific truth is more likely to be found at the fringes of science than at the center\\".<br /><br />The goal of `Sound Science' is to exploit doubt, magnify uncertainty and raise the bar of scientific confirmation to an unattainable level. As long as corporations have millions to spend there will always be at least a handful of scientists willing to play for pay. No surprise that corporate financed studies whether they are for energy companies, tobacco companies or the food industry invariably find results favorable to their patrons. The problem comes when politicians with little to no scientific experience decide to give equal credence to corporate sponsored science and often give additional weight to the corporate side who also fill their coffers.<br /><br />The Bush administration has shown a complete distain for science in general, first by taking an unusually long period of time in making administration appointments to scientific positions and then by having the audacity to ask inappropriate questions during the vetting process including, `Did you vote for the president?'. As if things couldn't get any worse HHS released a memo informing government scientists that they must represent the U.S. \\"at all times and advocate policy\\". So if the administrations policy towards Global Warming is to express doubt government scientists are warned to tow the party line.<br /><br />Inevitably the new partisan approach to science by the Bush administration has lead to an erosion of faith in both the U.S. government and in science itself. Scientist will be seen as either government cronies or corporate shills. Author Chris Mooney also spends several chapters on fundamentalist Christian influence on science and how results are fudged for moralities sake. Bush has outdone all previous presidents in modern history in stacking scientific committees with like minded individuals sympathetic to administration policies. Distortions, censorship, group think and ideological purity. Somewhere out there Stalin is smiling.ministration has shown a complete distain for science in general, first by taking an unusually long period of time in making administration appointments to scientific positions and then by having the audacity to ask inappropriate questions during the vetting process including, `Did you vote for the president?'. As if things couldn't get any worse HHS released a memo informing government scientists that they must represent the U.S. \\"at all times and advocate policy\\". So if the administrations policy towards Global Warming is to express doubt government scientists are warned to tow the party line.<br /><br />Inevitably the new partisan approach to science by the Bush administration has lead to an erosion of faith in both the U.S. government and in science itself. Scientist will be seen as either government cronies or corporate shills. Author Chris Mooney also spends several chapters on fundamentalist Christian influence on science and how results are fudged for moralities sake. Bush has outdone all previous presidents in modern history in stacking scientific committees with like minded individuals sympathetic to administration policies. Distortions, censorship, group think and ideological purity. Somewhere out there Stalin is smiling.	2005-10-10
US	52547971	R346R4BQD9BLJ8	0195168402	981139746	America Right or Wrong: An Anatomy of American Nationalism	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	From Nationalism to Imperialism	On international treaties right wing pundit Phyllis Schlafly wrote:<br /><br />\\"The principles of life, liberty and property must not be joined with the principles of genocide, totalitarianism, socialism and religious persecution. We cannot trust agreements or treaties with infidels\\".<br /><br />Here Phyllis borrows the language of Muslim extremists but the sentiment is pure American Conservativism for the new century. The message is fueled by a belief in a messianic roll for America in world affairs and an exceptionalism of its people. The only good foreigner is one who accepts, without question, the American system of free-market Capitalism. Believing in the superiority of the United States lends itself to a belief in the inferiority of the rest of the world. On this level the author draws a frightening parallel between America today and Europe circa 1914 prior to World War I. It is out of control nationalism.<br /><br />History shows observable signs of growing imperialism. There is a heightened level of nationalism and a belief in the superiority of the people as well as a feeling of persecution and emphasis on ignorance over knowledge. The author traces the anger back to the civil war and southern states humiliation after their defeat at the hands of the north. The Cold War only served to briefly constrain the seething anger towards Communists and perceived sympathizers but with the fall of the Soviet Union the floodgates of hatred crashed open. The anger has broadened to include all but the most subservient foreign nations while the core hatred is aimed directly at other Americans who are seen as illegitimate or abnormal. The feelings are amplified and justified by religious fundamentalism and its inherent intolerance towards diversity. Phyllis Schlafly is a perfect example of the rage that Conservatives feel towards everyone outside their narrow spectrum. Perhaps the most bizarre aspect is the right wings hatred of government combined with extreme nationalism.<br /><br />The match that ignites it all is our own government gleefully throwing gasoline on the fire of intolerance. Conservatives have been working to foment a hatred of foreigners for decades (see `Freedom Fries') and now Americans are being encouraged to support imperialism under the guise of preemptive strikes and spreading Democracy. There is a tradition, in Conservativism, of venerating authority and a belief that often the `Truth' must be protected by a `Bodyguard of Lies'. The WMD argument in Iraq was the initial smokescreen followed by the tale of spreading Democracy. Meanwhile, Republican's lace their speeches with what the author calls `Black Magic' words like `Traitor' and `Freedom' with the intention of chilling debate.<br /><br />The quality that has traditionally restrained the United States is a strong loathing of imperialism across the political spectrum. Morality maven William Bennett has advocated complete subservience to conservative leadership. As the author points out, people like Bennett move beyond even `my country right or wrong' into `my country is always right'. This kind of thinking creates a complete chill on international negotiations.<br /><br />I wouldn't say I found anything completely new in `America: Right or Wrong' but I found it to be an engaging synthesis of the direction America has been moving. The author even suggests that some areas of the world like the Middle East could use more nationalism in order to bind the disparate groups and ethnicities within countries. The problem is when a fully mature and militarily powerful country like the U.S. gets in its collective mind a desire to reshape the world. In the end the author is betting on the self correcting nature of American democracy to regain balance. Hopefully he is correct..<br /><br />The match that ignites it all is our own government gleefully throwing gasoline on the fire of intolerance. Conservatives have been working to foment a hatred of foreigners for decades (see `Freedom Fries') and now Americans are being encouraged to support imperialism under the guise of preemptive strikes and spreading Democracy. There is a tradition, in Conservativism, of venerating authority and a belief that often the `Truth' must be protected by a `Bodyguard of Lies'. The WMD argument in Iraq was the initial smokescreen followed by the tale of spreading Democracy. Meanwhile, Republican's lace their speeches with what the author calls `Black Magic' words like `Traitor' and `Freedom' with the intention of chilling debate.<br /><br />The quality that has traditionally restrained the United States is a strong loathing of imperialism across the political spectrum. Morality maven William Bennett has advocated complete subservience to conservative leadership. As the author points out, people like Bennett move beyond even `my country right or wrong' into `my country is always right'. This kind of thinking creates a complete chill on international negotiations.<br /><br />I wouldn't say I found anything completely new in `America: Right or Wrong' but I found it to be an engaging synthesis of the direction America has been moving. The author even suggests that some areas of the world like the Middle East could use more nationalism in order to bind the disparate groups and ethnicities within countries. The problem is when a fully mature and militarily powerful country like the U.S. gets in its collective mind a desire to reshape the world. In the end the author is betting on the self correcting nature of American democracy to regain balance. Hopefully he is correct.	2005-10-04
US	52547971	R2357HGYVFZT63	0062734172	212117278	Everything Is Under Control: Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-ups	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	The book THEY don't want you to read	`Everything is Under Control' is an A to Z listing of hundreds of conspiracy theories and cover-ups that pervade the minds of paranoids. The main issue I had with the book is how quickly the author cruises through topics. Some items are touched on so lightly that I'm not even sure what Mr. Wilson is talking about. It's disappointing not because the subject matter is boring but because it's so interesting that the short descriptions left me wanting more.<br /><br />Although the author is clearly a skeptic concerning many of the classic conspiracy theories not all conspiracies are equal and his lack of commentary may leave some readers confused. The Church of the Sub-Genius is fairly self evident as parody while others like the Discordian Society may be less so and the author doesn't discern between parody and sincere conspiracy theories. The other problem is that he doesn't differentiate between the absurd and the likely, for instance when Noam Chomsky claims that the media is owned by a handful of billionaires it's not really a conspiracy theory since it's pretty much true. On the other hand the Illuminati's relationship with extra-terrestrials is clearly the product of some overactive imaginations. When Mr. Wilson talks about a seemingly legit conspiracy like the P2 in Italy (which I had never heard of) it's hard for me to know whether or not to take it seriously. I think the book would have been improved if the author had gone into more detail on less subjects. Do people really care about Howard Hughes's legal difficulties with TWA or whether John Hull ran guns through Costa Rica or that psychologists spent a million dollars to avoid government regulations?<br /><br />In some ways the author is like a magician who doesn't want to reveal his tricks. There is a tiny bit of debunking and some subtle tweaks to the reader but the conspiracies are generally presented as is leaving it up to us to decide. Did our government really do extensive testing with chemical agents on unsuspecting American populaces during the 50's and 60's? There is enough known evidence that it is certainly plausible.<br /><br />Despite any issues I had with the organization and focus of the book I found it absolutely fascinating and had a difficult time putting it down. I suppose it might fall under the category of a reference guide or introductory primer to the world of paranoia. I look forward to reading other books by the author that go into more detail.on unsuspecting American populaces during the 50's and 60's? There is enough known evidence that it is certainly plausible.<br /><br />Despite any issues I had with the organization and focus of the book I found it absolutely fascinating and had a difficult time putting it down. I suppose it might fall under the category of a reference guide or introductory primer to the world of paranoia. I look forward to reading other books by the author that go into more detail.	2005-09-26
US	52547971	RPYS5C5KGFLP9	0395925002	68785412	The Affluent Society	Books	5	39	50	N	Y	Pragmatic approach to economics	There is a glaring blind spot among Conservative economists who speak breathlessly about freedom and distribution of power yet completely ignore the threat brought on by the disparity of wealth. The growing gap was what Marx saw as the eventual destroyer of Capitalism. Conservatives, on the other hand, see the disparity not as a problem but as a solution to pure democracy where a street sweeper has the same one vote as a CEO. Extreme wealth puts the power back in the hands of the people most capable of wielding it.<br /><br />Mr. Galbraith takes a look back at the evolution of economics starting with the early belief that the average worker would always earn just enough to survive and perhaps raise a family. Later Herbert Spencer expounded his Social Darwinian view of economics that has shown a resurgence in the last few decades. The original view was that social programs literally allow inferior genetic lines to procreate and dilute society. It was the collapse of the stock market in the 1930's that put Social Darwinism on the back burner. Although Marx correctly predicted the collapse, the economy recovered and the increasing disparity never created a revolution in the United States. This, however, may have been thanks to the many wealth redistribution programs created after the Great Depression. The author also points out that there is more of a physical separation between the economic strata's and ostentatious displays of wealth have become at best pass&eacute; at worst vulgar.<br /><br />The book punches a hole in the theory that productivity declines as worker security increases. One need only look at the dramatic rise in both production and security after World War II. As Mr. Galbraith points out it's always the OTHER guy who should give up security. Corporations and corporate heads work to create a broad cushion of support for themselves while decrying additional safeguards for workers as wasteful of needed capital. Although the author generally supports growth over wealth distribution as a way to improve society he is far more pragmatic than Conservative economists. Unlike right wing ideologists, Mr. Galbraith recognizes that the market often focuses on the things society needs least. There will always be a need for balance between public and private funding in particular for large scale research projects and public goods like education that the market shows a lack of interest in. The author doesn't seemed to have the same mystical reverence for market forces that some economists exhibit. He also has little respect for the federal reserves ability to even out market fluctuations using monetary policy (conservatives) or fiscal policy (liberals). Even with his support of business growth Mr. Galbraith recognizes that growth obsession can be a dangerous thing for, among other things, creating increasingly unmanageable debt in a heavily consumption based society.<br /><br />There seems to be a definite slant in economics towards the desires of the business class which includes worshipping at the altar of deregulated, free market Capitalism. John Kenneth Galbraith is a refreshingly non-ideological view of economics which actually recognizes that perhaps it's better to offer opportunities to the poor rather than kicks to the teeth to encourage growth out of poverty.wth over wealth distribution as a way to improve society he is far more pragmatic than Conservative economists. Unlike right wing ideologists, Mr. Galbraith recognizes that the market often focuses on the things society needs least. There will always be a need for balance between public and private funding in particular for large scale research projects and public goods like education that the market shows a lack of interest in. The author doesn't seemed to have the same mystical reverence for market forces that some economists exhibit. He also has little respect for the federal reserves ability to even out market fluctuations using monetary policy (conservatives) or fiscal policy (liberals). Even with his support of business growth Mr. Galbraith recognizes that growth obsession can be a dangerous thing for, among other things, creating increasingly unmanageable debt in a heavily consumption based society.<br /><br />There seems to be a definite slant in economics towards the desires of the business class which includes worshipping at the altar of deregulated, free market Capitalism. John Kenneth Galbraith is a refreshingly non-ideological view of economics which actually recognizes that perhaps it's better to offer opportunities to the poor rather than kicks to the teeth to encourage growth out of poverty.	2005-09-08
US	52547971	R2NEMM4B4YBYAB	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	5	34	39	N	Y	Pulling the curtain aside	Q. Why does Rush Limbaugh frequently insist that he is honest?<br /><br />A. Because the average person would never come to that conclusion on their own.<br /><br />The honesty of a commentator should be self evident. On Limbaugh, Shakespeare might say, \\"I think thou dost protest too much\\". A writer once said about Ann Coulter's book `Treason', \\"The distain for the reader is hard to believe, but apparently well placed\\". Coulter could not possibly be so blatantly dishonest with her readers and have the slightest respect for them. Rush and Ann are just two examples of the Republican `Echo Chamber' that has grown over the last three decades.<br /><br />The Republican Noise machine began when conservatives discovered that the wealthy and powerful were willing to pay big bucks to have their ideas polished and disseminated. The money was/is funneled into think tanks whose raison d'être is to parrot the views of their patrons. There is a misconception that think tanks are analysis groups when in actuality they're more like marketing firms with ideas as products. You can't possibly do acceptable analysis of a problem when you're working a priori. Unlike traditional marketing, which is generally recognizable as marketing, think tanks present their products to news sources as opinion pieces and often as legitimate analysis. When a viewer reads an article on the Fox News website about Global Warming it may well be written by an individual or think tank bankrolled by Exxon Mobile. How much cheaper is it for any news organization, right leaning or not to simply accept a prepackaged propaganda piece from the Heritage Foundation or Cato Institute and present it as a legitimate news item rather than do their own investigation?<br /><br />Think tank writers may be correct in their opinions or they may be wrong but the viewer is almost assuredly misled. Steven Milloy is never going to include evidence supporting Global Warming because he's paid by big oil not that you'd know that by reading his articles. The one absolute in think tanks is ideological purity. It has to be a soul crushing experience to be compressed into such narrow thinking. The result is a consistent message that gets echoed through conservative news sources until it becomes conventional wisdom even among moderates. Even subtle details like specific emotion evoking buzz words are included in the taking points. The goal is to produce an all encompassing propaganda barrage that literally leaves society less informed.<br /><br />Conservatives have no tradition of respect for freedom of speech or diversity of opinion and Fox news owner Rupert Murdoch and news director Roger Ailes are quite open about there disrespect for journalism. This creates a toxic combination that renders the news, at best, biased opinion pieces, at worst government propaganda. Fox News is blatantly biased because conservatives feel no need to be balanced. If you're convinced unequivocally that you have the absolute right answers and the right cause why bother giving equal or even marginal credence to other ideas. As the writer points out Fox news, as the prototype for future news casting, is literally destroying journalism which surely puts a smile on Murdoch's face.<br /><br />This is a terrific book packed with tons of information. It's certainly not a feel good book but it is enlightening and I highly recommend it.reading his articles. The one absolute in think tanks is ideological purity. It has to be a soul crushing experience to be compressed into such narrow thinking. The result is a consistent message that gets echoed through conservative news sources until it becomes conventional wisdom even among moderates. Even subtle details like specific emotion evoking buzz words are included in the taking points. The goal is to produce an all encompassing propaganda barrage that literally leaves society less informed.<br /><br />Conservatives have no tradition of respect for freedom of speech or diversity of opinion and Fox news owner Rupert Murdoch and news director Roger Ailes are quite open about there disrespect for journalism. This creates a toxic combination that renders the news, at best, biased opinion pieces, at worst government propaganda. Fox News is blatantly biased because conservatives feel no need to be balanced. If you're convinced unequivocally that you have the absolute right answers and the right cause why bother giving equal or even marginal credence to other ideas. As the writer points out Fox news, as the prototype for future news casting, is literally destroying journalism which surely puts a smile on Murdoch's face.<br /><br />This is a terrific book packed with tons of information. It's certainly not a feel good book but it is enlightening and I highly recommend it.	2005-08-30
US	52547971	R2ZB2M92AHNIXU	0813342511	511354109	The Long Detour: The History And Future Of The American Left	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Getting the left back on track	Over the last half century Socialism has taken enough beatings that you can scarcely find a self identified Socialist living in the United States yet many of the ideas of Socialism are now embedded in the fabric of America. Socialists (along with progressives) were instrumental in enacting the 40 hour work week, minimum wage, civil rights, unemployment insurance, child labor laws and countless other benefits we take for granted. So why has Socialism been so viciously maligned? Perhaps it was the amount of atheists within the Socialist movement or perhaps it was seen as a legitimate threat to the two party system or perhaps it just rubbed the wealthy the wrong way. The most devastating blow came when Marxist Socialism was adopted by Lenin as the ideology of the Soviet Union. As a test of Socialism the Soviet Union was a dramatic failure. The question the author asks is whether or not the Soviet Union even qualified as Socialist.<br /><br />Socialism is about workers rights, pure democracy and a decentralization of power (or at least restructuring). As the author puts it the Soviet version turned Socialism on its head. Another question would be to ask whether the Soviet Union was the inevitable end result of Socialism regardless of initial intent. Marx saw Socialism as the natural evolutionary stage beyond Capitalism. He also believed that Socialism required a significant amount of initial capital to be successful. The Soviet Union had neither the Capitalistic history to evolve from nor the monetary resources necessary to fund Socialism which is why Stalin was so obsessed with converting the West. He needed the capital. The Soviet Union was at least a century behind technologically and financially wrecked by WWI and the Bolshevik revolution when Stalin decided to compete with the West. It was Stalin's obsession with matching the West and his utter lack of respect for civil rights that created the dismal conditions in the Soviet Union. Few things could demonstrate Stalin poor leadership than his appointment of Trofim Lysenko to chief geneticist as Lysenko is perhaps the worst and most vile scientist in history.<br /><br />Since the writer is a self proclaimed Socialist and one time Communist you might expect this book to be a vigorous defense of Socialism but it's really a balanced history warts and all. In Socialisms heyday, figures like Gov. Huey Long were attempting to enact changes that would be mind blowing if attempted today such as a one million dollar cap on salaries, a five million dollar cap on personal net worth and a 30 hour workweek. These attempts were overly extreme, still, it's a shame that Socialists are now treated like persona non grates and maligned by history because many showed incredible bravery in the fight for worker and minority rights. The tragedy is that extremist groups like the Weatherman and Black Panthers gave the right all the ammo they needed to ruin liberal momentum to the point where the left has yet to recover its bearings.<br /><br />The final chapters should be codified into the minds of liberals. This is the author's view of the future agenda for the left. Mr. Weinstein's first goal is to see a reduction in military spending which may seem inappropriate at this time but as he points out much of the danger American's face is blowback from the fact that the U.S. is the number one arms dealer in the world. He also sees many of the oppressive tactics of globalization as fuel for international anger. Domestically we need to spend more money on education and the environment. His final goal is a national health care plan. As brilliant as capitalism may be it seems to be less than effective in health care. The United States is the only industrialized national where the health care industry actively avoids the sick. The other problem is that competition is supposed to lower costs yet American's pay twice the cost for the same health care that Europeans and Canadians get.<br /><br />The left needs more introspective books like this. Liberals need to recognize the mistakes of the past and clarify a vision of the future. It's not enough to demand universal health care liberals need to articulate why this is the best way to proceed into the future. It's time for the pendulum to swing back.re introspective books like this. Liberals need to recognize the mistakes of the past and clarify a vision of the future. It's not enough to demand universal health care liberals need to articulate why this is the best way to proceed into the future. It's time for the pendulum to swing back.	2005-08-23
US	52547971	R15QMS1XB7DD0T	0895261715	427240337	The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot	Books	2	82	188	N	Y	Repellent Sale of Conservativism	The fatalistic view of Conservativism is expressed by Kirk even before the first chapter concludes as he states, \\"[Edmund] Burke, could he see our century, never would concede that a consumption-society, so near suicide, is the end for which Providence has prepared man\\".  But wait. The Conservative Mind was first published in 1953, the mythical golden age of America with Ward and June Cleaver and Normal Rockwell. Meanwhile, Burke, a contemporary of the 18th century is pining for the 14th century. What a depressing ideology to think that we always live in the worst of times.<br /><br />There are certain ideological threads that carry throughout the book including a belief in the stratification of society. Voting should be the privilege of a small minority rather than universal democracy which Kirk saw as contributing to a degradation of society. Kirk writes, \\"What men really are seeking, or ought to seek, is not the right to govern themselves, but the right to be governed well\\" but what he offers is a lack of true representation. The author pines for the days of the aristocrat and although he defines the elites by wealth, intellect and lineage he clearly includes race and gender. Is it so surprising that Kirk lauds some of the worst racists in American history like Nathanial Bedford Forrest whom he describes as `magnificent' before quoting his racist vitriol? In a particularly galling move he referrers to pro-slavery advocate John C. Calhoun as a `defender of minorities' and praises John Randolph for, among other things, opposing doctrines of racial equality. Kirk goes on about Calhoun's support for states rights but his support only extended to southern states as he supported the Fugitive Slave Act which forced federal officials and law officials in Northern states to return runaway slave under penalty of $1000 fine. He supported laws that would make it illegal for northerners to even protest slavery. For Calhoun states rights were nothing more than a self serving attempt to keep slavery safe. Kirk shows his own racist stripes when he refers to northern `anti-slavery agitation' and supports Calhoun for choosing racial preservation over liberty, although Calhoun has an extremely warped view of liberty. One wonders if Kirk could even fathom the supreme irony in stating the Calhoun mounted a `strong protest against domination by class or region'.<br /><br />Another thread is his desire to see the reunification of church and state. The duty of the church is to keep the unclean masses in line. Quoting Samuel Coleridge, the author makes it clear that the truth or falsity of the church is irrelevant; it is an institution that must be preserved as the primary means of social control. Sounding like the inspiration for disgraced Chief Justice Roy Moore, Russell Kirk urges that, \\"state and church ought never to be separate entities, true religion is not merely an expression of national spirit; it rises far superior to earthly law, being, indeed, the source of all law\\". Kirk sees a difference between the faulty laws of man and the laws of God but never draws a distinction. I have to wonder if, like the modern Reconstructionist, Kirk wanted to see the laws of Leviticus imposed including executing homosexuals and blasphemers. He never explains how one might recognize a law of God besides using prejudice.<br /><br />The third thread would be Kirk's anti-intellectual (or perhaps pro-stupid) stance. He refers to human reason as `puny' and `impotent' and claims that we find the mind of God in prejudice and tradition. `Prejudice', he writes, `is of ready application in the emergency; it previously engages the mind in a steady course of wisdom and virtue, and does not leave the man hesitating in the moment of decision, skeptical, puzzled, and unresolved'. Actually what he is advocating is for the general population to turn over rational thought to the church and those higher up the social chain. Citizens are encouraged to exhibit awe and veneration for God and those in higher stations and authority.<br /><br />In order to grab the golden fleece of populism Conservatives have lately had to abandon overt stratification although veneration of wealth is certainly still evident. Like Calhoun the support for states rights remains a complete façade. I found Russell Kirk's salesmanship of Conservativism generally repellent but recommend the book because it remains a fairly enlightening view of an ideology that continues to thrive to this day.on for God and those in higher stations and authority.<br /><br />In order to grab the golden fleece of populism Conservatives have lately had to abandon overt stratification although veneration of wealth is certainly still evident. Like Calhoun the support for states rights remains a complete façade. I found Russell Kirk's salesmanship of Conservativism generally repellent but recommend the book because it remains a fairly enlightening view of an ideology that continues to thrive to this day.	2005-08-18
US	52547971	R1SCFNWKKZQRHL	0521838347	892710035	America Alone: The Neo-Conservatives and the Global Order	Books	5	23	26	N	Y	Great book for understanding neo-conservativism	Although George W. Bush has gotten credit for the new face of American foreign policy his is merely a reflection of an intellectual movement that's been around for decades, solidified in the early 90's and really took hold after September 11th. The ideology is known as neo-conservativism and its adherents litter the White House and Pentagon. They are marked by an intense hatred of international agreements and organizations, diplomacy and the State Department. The neo-cons preach a black and white, good and evil (with us or against us) worldview and frame their arguments in moralistic terms. To them military force is the catch all answer for international problems with some neo-cons going so far as to advocate continual war. Americans forget or perhaps don't realize that Iraq was intended to be just the first in a string of wars that included Syria, Libya, Iran, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern and African counties.<br /><br />Rather than an attack from the left `America Alone' is a measured criticism of neo-conservativism from the middle right. The authors point to an intellectual wattage drain in the second generation neo-conservatives. Whereas the first generation went through an evolution in thinking and prided themselves on intellectual experimentation the second generation seems to have been, as the author put it, born middle aged. Experimentation gave way to inflexibility to the point where neo-conservatives found themselves incapable of adapting to a new and increasingly open Soviet Union emerged. The new generation has by and large abandoned academia and moved straight into politics and policy making but operate like someone working from within a gated community. Almost to a man the neo-conservatives have spent no time in the military while continually choose the military route.<br /><br />Conservatives have long railed against small groups of experts, intellectuals or `elites' setting policy contrary to popular will yet this is exactly what the neo-conservatives have done. They have cynically manipulated public opinion on the Iraqi war using time tested propaganda techniques and brazen lies. There is an arrogance among neo-conservatives that the general public is unprepared for the lofty neo-con goals so rather than articulate their true agenda they offer answers designed simply to placate the populace. This was particularly evident in the WMD sales pitch for an Iraqi invasion. In the case of foreigners the neo-cons feel it's their right, perhaps even duty to completely alter societies that don't conform to western democratic free market capitalism. Although the neo-conservatives claim to be realists their liberal idealism is most evident in Iraq where neo-cons like Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle made obscenely rosy predictions about the outcome of the invasion and the so called `domino effect'. The neo-conservatives believe America can literally reshape the entire Middle Eastern region through sheer brute force and no amount of monetary or human expense is too excessive.<br /><br />The last few years have seen an unprecedented loss of American prestige and moral leadership. While the United States continues to operate Guantanamo base and refuses negotiations on international treaties like ABM and Kyoto a message is sent to the rest of world that the United States couldn't care less about world opinion. This may satisfy a certain jingoistic spirit but it does immeasurable damage to the United States standing in an increasingly connected world.<br /><br />`America Alone' is an extremely well researched book filled with important information and fascinating analysis. It's a hefty 340 pages but I never grew bored reading it. I heartily recommend this book to anyone with concern or interest in the future of the United States.neo-conservatives have done. They have cynically manipulated public opinion on the Iraqi war using time tested propaganda techniques and brazen lies. There is an arrogance among neo-conservatives that the general public is unprepared for the lofty neo-con goals so rather than articulate their true agenda they offer answers designed simply to placate the populace. This was particularly evident in the WMD sales pitch for an Iraqi invasion. In the case of foreigners the neo-cons feel it's their right, perhaps even duty to completely alter societies that don't conform to western democratic free market capitalism. Although the neo-conservatives claim to be realists their liberal idealism is most evident in Iraq where neo-cons like Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle made obscenely rosy predictions about the outcome of the invasion and the so called `domino effect'. The neo-conservatives believe America can literally reshape the entire Middle Eastern region through sheer brute force and no amount of monetary or human expense is too excessive.<br /><br />The last few years have seen an unprecedented loss of American prestige and moral leadership. While the United States continues to operate Guantanamo base and refuses negotiations on international treaties like ABM and Kyoto a message is sent to the rest of world that the United States couldn't care less about world opinion. This may satisfy a certain jingoistic spirit but it does immeasurable damage to the United States standing in an increasingly connected world.<br /><br />`America Alone' is an extremely well researched book filled with important information and fascinating analysis. It's a hefty 340 pages but I never grew bored reading it. I heartily recommend this book to anyone with concern or interest in the future of the United States.	2005-08-05
US	52547971	RXNWO61H3MMLH	0618013245	839611881	The Economics of Innocent Fraud: Truth For Our Time	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Short Poke at Conventional Wisdom	There is certainly fraud in economics however I question the innocence. Mr. Galbraith points out a handful of accepted truths about economics that are, quite frankly, false. Perhaps the biggest fraud is the idea the shareholders are part owners of the companies they invest in. This idea has been pushed most recently by internet trading companies who like to give small investors the impression that they literally own a piece of the company. You might as well claim to own part of the moon. Despite being an investor and `part owner' of the company I worked for they still laid me off without my permission or consultation. Even the board of directors is created by and for management. Mr. Galbraith describes the annual shareholder meetings as resembling a \\"Covenanted Baptist Church service\\". What further proof do you need of the impotence of the shareholder than the continuing and inexorable rise in management salaries through the early part of the decade as the market tanked. Imagine sports athletes being in charge of setting their own salaries and it becomes clear how CEO's can now earn 470 times the salary of the lowest paid worker in the company they manage.<br /><br />Another fraud discussed by the author is the idea of public and private policy. These two spheres have become increasingly irrelevant as government officials jump back and forth between corporate management and policy making. How many public appointees have suddenly found themselves with lucrative lobbying careers the moment they leave an administration? Mr. Galbraith points to the military industrial complex as a particularly egregious merging of the two and even argues that the Pentagon is as much in the private sector as the public. As the final chapter closes he expresses sadness that of all the areas of technology that man has pursued developing weapons of war has consistently held priority.<br /><br />`The Economics of Innocent Fraud' is a very small book (62 tiny pages) and can be read in a single sitting. The book is just a few simple ideas set down with little in the way of argument or persuasion. Although I agree with Mr. Galbraith in his ideas I wish there could have been a lot more substance. One chapter argues that the Federal Reserve is basically a placebo to satisfy investors and voters that the government is doing something. That's a pretty bold assertion (although I have heard this argument before). I just wish the book would have backed it up with more facts. Still, it's nice to see such a legendary figure still producing sharp, topical writings.e sitting. The book is just a few simple ideas set down with little in the way of argument or persuasion. Although I agree with Mr. Galbraith in his ideas I wish there could have been a lot more substance. One chapter argues that the Federal Reserve is basically a placebo to satisfy investors and voters that the government is doing something. That's a pretty bold assertion (although I have heard this argument before). I just wish the book would have backed it up with more facts. Still, it's nice to see such a legendary figure still producing sharp, topical writings.	2005-07-22
US	52547971	R2SPH92QZOTEDT	0385495048	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism, and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Vox Populi for Billionaires	There is a new conventional wisdom being constructed in the last few decades that we have finally reached the culmination of economic theory and all that's left is to tune the machine. The ultimate realization of western perfection is pure free market Capitalism. The villains of the scenario are unions, intellectuals, environmentalists and government regulators who gum up the wheels of progress. Fueling the market engine is relentless optimism and there are few superlatives too vicious to be cast on those who express doubt. CEO's are hard working heroes moving the engine while blue collar workers are parasites sucking away needed capital. As George Lakoff would say this is the construction of a Frame, attempting to move from concept to common knowledge. Frames are powerful indeed and most people if given a choice between retaining a Frame or accepting new contrary evidence will keep the Frame and throw out the evidence. Leaving no doubt about his opinion on the matter Thomas Frank declares, \\"the New Economy is a fraud\\". It's a Vox Populi where billionaires are victimized by `elitist' union workers and the crime de jour is political correctness.<br /><br />A lot has happened since `One Market, Under God' was published including that little market correction in 2000. Thanks to bad timing Thomas Frank's book sets up the joke but misses out on the punch line when all those hip gen-X investors watched their brand new fortunes go up in smoke. However, the book is timely enough to point out that during the heyday of the bull market real wages went down, jobs became less secure and downsizing became fashionable for CEO's who want a quick stock pop. It also seems clear that a system that can be done in by mere pessimism is built on a very shaky foundation.  There is a `New Afterword' chapter that gives Thomas Frank a chance to offer up some post 2000 commentary. In the end it became painfully clear that companies, auditors and analysts were all working against the best interest of the small investor. The market was to be the new means for wealth redistribution as everyone had access to the market money tree but when the chips were cashed in the wealth disparity in America grew beyond anything seen in the last 70 years.<br /><br />\\"One Market, Under God\\" chronicles just about every pro-business, pro-globalization propaganda ad released in the 90's as well as the endless stream of articles in business magazines praising the new paradigm. Mr. Franks takes a critical look at the often silly, bordering on pseudoscientific, marketing theories that were being expounded. Unfortunately the book sometimes degenerates into one long sarcastic sneer aimed at all things business. There are no heroes of the book just manipulators, fools and greedy CEO's. Thomas Frank's later book, `What's the Matter with Kansas' was one of the best social commentaries I've ever read so I felt a bit disappointed with this one. Still, it's a fascinating look at how society can be manipulated and swept up into a frenzy of greed to the point where we give up our own self interests.est of the small investor. The market was to be the new means for wealth redistribution as everyone had access to the market money tree but when the chips were cashed in the wealth disparity in America grew beyond anything seen in the last 70 years.<br /><br />\\"One Market, Under God\\" chronicles just about every pro-business, pro-globalization propaganda ad released in the 90's as well as the endless stream of articles in business magazines praising the new paradigm. Mr. Franks takes a critical look at the often silly, bordering on pseudoscientific, marketing theories that were being expounded. Unfortunately the book sometimes degenerates into one long sarcastic sneer aimed at all things business. There are no heroes of the book just manipulators, fools and greedy CEO's. Thomas Frank's later book, `What's the Matter with Kansas' was one of the best social commentaries I've ever read so I felt a bit disappointed with this one. Still, it's a fascinating look at how society can be manipulated and swept up into a frenzy of greed to the point where we give up our own self interests.	2005-07-20
US	52547971	R1FKTPAS5Q8Z9H	0743257529	760447173	China, Inc.: How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Mega Trend Americans should be aware of	China has become that economic elephant that nobody can ignore. It has a buying potential that leaves businesses drooling and a ready labor force that dwarfs both the United States and Europe. On the other hand it remains a one party system with an abysmal human rights record but who's gonna waste time complaining when there're fortunes to be made. Like Wall-Mart you may not like the way China does things but their leverage generally leaves them the final arbitrator of rules. The brass ring is so shiny that Western businesses find themselves potentially selling away their futures giving up valuable intellectual property for a chance to break into the market and wealth of low cost labor. Meanwhile, the worldwide ripple effect from China has caused manufacturing costs to plummet and middle and lower class salaries to stagnate.<br /><br />The story of China, Inc begins during the disastrous `Great Leap Forward' in the late 1950's and continues up to present day where a hybrid of Capitalism and Black Market economics has creating an amazing 7 percent yearly growth in GDP that's left the rest of the world stunned and scrambling to react. Westerners can appreciate the rapid and massive construction that resembles the United States during the last century. What Westerners may have a problem wrapping their minds around is a powerhouse industrial nation that remains non-democratic. The Chinese government can experiment without answering to the populace in projects such as privatizing highways or building the Three Gorges Dam despite a risk of catastrophic disaster. Publicly the government continues to support Marxism which means that Chinese people often have to bend and break the law in order to support the very system that's spurring Chinese growth. China may no longer be the totalitarian style government as in North Korea but political censorship and lack of property rights continue.<br /><br />The final few chapters deal with the ramifications of it all. America's voracious addiction to spending is being subsidized by money borrowed from China. Manufactured items continue to drop in price while other costs have jumped leaving Americans with less and less disposable income and more debt. The U.S. is now intrinsically tied to China and neither can change course without causing great harm to both but the fact is that these trends cannot continue. Mr. Fishman expresses some doubt that the current free market path and industry swapping with China will really leave the United States better off. In many ways the events playing out are unprecedented leaving little to no historical information to fall back on. China is most certainly contributing to the disintegration of organized labor and erosion of American job security.<br /><br />The effects of China on the world economy are the kind of mega trends that Americans should really be aware of. There is scarcely a job out there that won't be touched. Mr. Fishman also gives some good advice on what America needs to do to prepare with the top item being improving Education. Unfortunately, the current U.S. government seems to prefer supplying additional cheap labor rather developing a high quality premium workforce.ous addiction to spending is being subsidized by money borrowed from China. Manufactured items continue to drop in price while other costs have jumped leaving Americans with less and less disposable income and more debt. The U.S. is now intrinsically tied to China and neither can change course without causing great harm to both but the fact is that these trends cannot continue. Mr. Fishman expresses some doubt that the current free market path and industry swapping with China will really leave the United States better off. In many ways the events playing out are unprecedented leaving little to no historical information to fall back on. China is most certainly contributing to the disintegration of organized labor and erosion of American job security.<br /><br />The effects of China on the world economy are the kind of mega trends that Americans should really be aware of. There is scarcely a job out there that won't be touched. Mr. Fishman also gives some good advice on what America needs to do to prepare with the top item being improving Education. Unfortunately, the current U.S. government seems to prefer supplying additional cheap labor rather developing a high quality premium workforce.	2005-07-11
US	52547971	R3442KPQEJN253	0465081436	292690162	Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One	Books	3	24	86	N	Y	Echo of Milton Friedman	Thomas Sowell is the Rose and Milton Friedman Senior Fellow on Public Policy at the Hoover Institute, a conservative think tank. That actually tells a lot. Think Tanks are created and subsist thanks to donations from wealthy sponsors and corporations. The raison d'être of books produced by think tanks are to advocate the policies and ideologies of those benefactors. This is not to say that Applied Economics is disingenuous but it's certainly something to be aware of.<br /><br />Getting rid of minimum wage has been a staple of conservativism but Mr. Sowell takes it one step further by singing the praises of zero paying jobs. To back up his support he lists a pair of rags to riches stories. Apparently F.W. Woolworth worked 14 hour days for three months for free. Since Mr. Sowell advocates workers being paid market price he comes right out and states that Woolworths' work was valueless. The defense is that America's social ladder is so dynamic that Woolworth was able to climb to the top thru grit and determination. Sowell states, \\"American families in the bottom 20 percent of income earners supply only a fraction of the hours of work per year supplied by families in the top 20 percent\\".  It's difficult, however, to know exactly what Mr. Sowell is asserting. Does supplying hours of work mean the same as putting in hours and what `fraction' of hours are being supplied? Twenty percent? Eighty percent? Mr. Sowell does no analysis of his statement. He just throws it out there as if to say `look, poor people are lazy'.<br /><br />In the middle of chapter `Free and Unfree Labor' Mr. Sowell abruptly switches topics and starts talking about gun laws and makes the mind blowing assertion that, `After the Atlanta suburb of Kennesaw passed an ordinance requiring heads of households to keep a firearm in their homes, residential burglaries dropped by 89 percent'. What a nightmarish scenario and impingement on personal freedom. I have a suspicion that Mr. Sowell cherry picks through data since he continually mentions reduction in residential burglaries but never mentions any other crime. He makes a quick plea for putting more people in jail before returning to the actual subject of the chapter.<br /><br />Mr. Sowell is never as disingenuous as he is when he's shilling for big Pharma. He's against price fixing medicine because it reduces profits and harms a company's ability to finance further research but he supports selling drugs to other countries with price fixing at a drastically reduced price. He's also against re-importation because this would also eat into profits. So what's the upside for American's beyond the pleasure in living in a country that develops lots of medicines? The great irony is that measured against the top 29 industrialized nations the United States sits in the bottom quartile in both life expectancy and infant mortality. Maybe it's because we can't afford the very medicine we develop.<br /><br />Sadly, Mr. Sowell pulls out that ugly chestnut that spending public money on AIDS treatment is wrong because it only encourages the very behavior that propagated AIDS in the first place. He doesn't elaborate on whether he's referring to unsafe sex or homosexuality as the behavior. Sowell is also against debt forgiveness for poor nations but most surprising is his stance against government assistance in the case of natural disasters. His logic is that people will just rebuild in the same dangerous location (like half of Florida?). Even the most cold hearted conservative generally supports helping after an act of God.<br /><br />This book is boilerplate neo-conservativism and really adds nothing beyond parroting the ideas that Milton Friedman penned 50 years ago. I guess the moral of the story is that when it comes to American domestic policy the twentieth century was a complete failure. `Course, on the back cover G. Gordon Liddy calls Thomas Sowell `the smartest man on the planet' so how can it not be so?ata since he continually mentions reduction in residential burglaries but never mentions any other crime. He makes a quick plea for putting more people in jail before returning to the actual subject of the chapter.<br /><br />Mr. Sowell is never as disingenuous as he is when he's shilling for big Pharma. He's against price fixing medicine because it reduces profits and harms a company's ability to finance further research but he supports selling drugs to other countries with price fixing at a drastically reduced price. He's also against re-importation because this would also eat into profits. So what's the upside for American's beyond the pleasure in living in a country that develops lots of medicines? The great irony is that measured against the top 29 industrialized nations the United States sits in the bottom quartile in both life expectancy and infant mortality. Maybe it's because we can't afford the very medicine we develop.<br /><br />Sadly, Mr. Sowell pulls out that ugly chestnut that spending public money on AIDS treatment is wrong because it only encourages the very behavior that propagated AIDS in the first place. He doesn't elaborate on whether he's referring to unsafe sex or homosexuality as the behavior. Sowell is also against debt forgiveness for poor nations but most surprising is his stance against government assistance in the case of natural disasters. His logic is that people will just rebuild in the same dangerous location (like half of Florida?). Even the most cold hearted conservative generally supports helping after an act of God.<br /><br />This book is boilerplate neo-conservativism and really adds nothing beyond parroting the ideas that Milton Friedman penned 50 years ago. I guess the moral of the story is that when it comes to American domestic policy the twentieth century was a complete failure. `Course, on the back cover G. Gordon Liddy calls Thomas Sowell `the smartest man on the planet' so how can it not be so?	2005-07-05
US	52547971	R3V7PT1HJ2690P	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	31	38	N	Y	View from inside the machine	David Brock confirms what I've suspected for quite some time. For the rank and file soldier in the Conservative movement the battle has never been about smaller government, states rights, lower taxes or even conservative dogma for that matter. It's about defeating an enemy and winning an esoteric culture war. The movement is a fatalistic combination of Christian millennialism and a philosophical despair that liberals are an unstoppable, omnipresent force. The cause is the only thing that matters even if it means throwing your own principles on a pyre of partisanship. In the case of closeted homosexual David Brock he was able to overlook the movement's revulsion towards gays in support of a higher purpose.<br /><br />Brock points out that the Conservative movement has been Conservative in name alone. It more mirrors the radical leftist movements of the '60 with bomb throwing figures like Grover Norquist and Newt Gingrich talking about destroying and rebuilding the system. As Paul Krugman wrote in `The Great Unraveling' revolutionaries don't play by the rules because the rules are created by the corrupt system. There is an unearthly fury evident in Norquist who expresses dreams of reducing the Federal government to the point where it can be drowned in a bathtub. He demonstrates a complete lack of hyperbolic restraint as he compares inheritance tax to the Holocaust and corporate tax cheats to Rosa Parks. Newt Gingrich launched a scorched earth campaign against Democrats unleashing personal attacks with such blind ferocity that Congress needed to call a moratorium on ethics charges lest there be no Congressman left on either side of the aisle. In the case of the Clintons the right had transformed them from human beings to archetypes of all that was evil and the adherents truly believed it.<br /><br />The irony of it all is the level of hypocrisy in the movement. Newt Gingrich was eventually forced from Congress thanks to his own personal faults. Brock points to Rush Limbaugh as a hypocritical figure and that was PRIOR to his third divorce and a revealed addiction to `hillbilly heroin'. Brock also missed the opportunity to pile it on with morality maven William Bennett and his million dollar gambling habit. Christian Coalition co-founder Ralph Reed's political career may over before it starts thanks to an unseemly relationship with uber-slimeball Jack Abramoff. The hypocrisy among the movements leaders was so brazen that Brock couldn't figure out whether or not he should even take these people serious or if was all just theater. Gingrich's `assault on altruism' seemed to pass into the realm of cartoon villainy and Laura Ingraham confided in Brock that much of what she said as a television political pundit was pure theatrics. Her shtick was producing politically incorrect sound bites.<br /><br />`Blinded by the Right' is about wrapping yourself in a blanket of groupthink. It's about partisan hacks pretending to be journalists with zero regard for journalistic integrity. It's about magazines and newspapers that reward ideological purity over talent. Nothing could be more pathetic than a morally bankrupt David Brock marching around with an \\"I believe Paula [Jones]\\" button on his lapel when he himself seriously doubted the veracity of her version of a private meeting with Bill Clinton. Brock presents himself as a pathetic, worthless tool who only has himself to blame for becoming a cog in the right ring smear machine. It is, however, an enlightening journey from one of the few people who lived in the belly of the beast and finally left.baugh as a hypocritical figure and that was PRIOR to his third divorce and a revealed addiction to `hillbilly heroin'. Brock also missed the opportunity to pile it on with morality maven William Bennett and his million dollar gambling habit. Christian Coalition co-founder Ralph Reed's political career may over before it starts thanks to an unseemly relationship with uber-slimeball Jack Abramoff. The hypocrisy among the movements leaders was so brazen that Brock couldn't figure out whether or not he should even take these people serious or if was all just theater. Gingrich's `assault on altruism' seemed to pass into the realm of cartoon villainy and Laura Ingraham confided in Brock that much of what she said as a television political pundit was pure theatrics. Her shtick was producing politically incorrect sound bites.<br /><br />`Blinded by the Right' is about wrapping yourself in a blanket of groupthink. It's about partisan hacks pretending to be journalists with zero regard for journalistic integrity. It's about magazines and newspapers that reward ideological purity over talent. Nothing could be more pathetic than a morally bankrupt David Brock marching around with an \\"I believe Paula [Jones]\\" button on his lapel when he himself seriously doubted the veracity of her version of a private meeting with Bill Clinton. Brock presents himself as a pathetic, worthless tool who only has himself to blame for becoming a cog in the right ring smear machine. It is, however, an enlightening journey from one of the few people who lived in the belly of the beast and finally left.	2005-06-27
US	52547971	R1Q1EQ3LS5NAVV	0374292884	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Dreamy Eyed Gaze at Globalization	At over 460 pages `The World Is Flat' is a mammoth analysis of Globalization. The book is decidedly pro-Globalization but if you can get past the first 400 pages of cheerleading Mr. Friedman manages to touch on some of the problems of the flattening world. Through most of the book the reader is taken on a starry eyed voyage of multinational corporations as they strive towards the Capitalists dream of raising stock values and making mountains of profits while improving the lives of workers. It's a win-win situation for everyone who jumps aboard the Globalization express as wealthy countries are freed from the tedium of mundane work while third world employees see their standard of living rise. Those who resist (see Middle East) are left fuming over their increasing irrelevancy. Globalization is such a blessing that by intertwining countries through corporate supply chains it literally makes war a thing of the past.<br /><br />At about the 400 page mark the book starts to address the potential problems of Globalization. Friedman mentions a seemingly inevitable energy crisis as India and China start approaching an American standard of living and oil usage. He vaguely mentions the problem with the United States touting Democracy while imposing its will on people who have zero say in U.S. policy. He mentions the flashpoint when Globalization encroaches on areas like the Middle East that resist assimilation. He even briefly hints that Middle Easterners may have a point when they accuse the United States of propping up repressive governments. George W. Bush is taken to task for launching an ill advised war and changing the chief U.S. export from hope to fear.<br /><br />What Thomas Friedman doesn't mention is the darkest area of Globalization where multinational corporations use their influence to pressure the U.S. into forcing regime changes and political assassinations as in South America. The companies in `The World is Flat' have such a benevolence about them you can't imagine them forcibly dispossessing indigenous people of their land or encouraging our government to support brutal regimes for the sake of stability and profit.<br /><br />Friedman takes a bit of time gushing over Wal-Mart's groundbreaking efficiency and although he takes Wal-Mart to task for driving down salaries and reducing benefits he gives ex-CEO David Glass the last word. Glass admits that Wal-Mart definitely has some improvements to make as far as giving back to the community but then blames manufacturers for leaving the states as if demanding minimal to no profit margins on suppliers doesn't force companies to leave. Glass says, \\"One of my concerns is that, with the manufacturing out of this country, one day we'll all be selling hamburgers to each other\\". Indeed.<br /><br />Mr. Friedman makes a great point that may end up being prophetic when he states that xenophobic social conservatives and protectionist labor form a more natural union in the face of inexorable globalization while fiscal conservatives and coastal liberals may form a free trade counterbalance. I wouldn't be surprised if we see this kind of political restructuring in the next decade or two.imagine them forcibly dispossessing indigenous people of their land or encouraging our government to support brutal regimes for the sake of stability and profit.<br /><br />Friedman takes a bit of time gushing over Wal-Mart's groundbreaking efficiency and although he takes Wal-Mart to task for driving down salaries and reducing benefits he gives ex-CEO David Glass the last word. Glass admits that Wal-Mart definitely has some improvements to make as far as giving back to the community but then blames manufacturers for leaving the states as if demanding minimal to no profit margins on suppliers doesn't force companies to leave. Glass says, \\"One of my concerns is that, with the manufacturing out of this country, one day we'll all be selling hamburgers to each other\\". Indeed.<br /><br />Mr. Friedman makes a great point that may end up being prophetic when he states that xenophobic social conservatives and protectionist labor form a more natural union in the face of inexorable globalization while fiscal conservatives and coastal liberals may form a free trade counterbalance. I wouldn't be surprised if we see this kind of political restructuring in the next decade or two.	2005-06-13
US	52547971	R12B7UHC16FREK	0226264211	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom: Fortieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	15	25	N	Y	Love letter to Capitalism	Although he never uses the term, Milton Friedman would probably be considered a libertarian with his view of a very limited Federal government. The main responsibilities of the Fed would be establishment and enforcement of laws, resolving property rights and maintaining the monetary system. Mr. Friedman considers himself a defender of `classical' liberalism which is essentially the liberalism of the 17th century that concerned itself with the distribution of power, protection of property rights and freedom of individuals.<br /><br />As the heir apparent to Fredrick A. Hayek, Mr. Friedman takes up the battle against socialism, central planning and the concentration of power. Unlike his predecessor, however, Milton Friedman is extremely specific about the changes he would like to see in the way the U.S. government governs. He would like to see the elimination of rent control, minimum wage, the FCC, Social Security, most business regulations, tariffs on imports, public housing and national parks. Friedman was also an early proponent of school vouchers. In fact he goes so far as to call for the complete `denationalization' (privatization) of public education. The main thrust of Mr. Friedman's argument is that when the government attempts to solve social problems through central planning it invariably causes more problems than it solves, restricts individual freedoms and consolidating power in central planners.<br /><br />There is an almost mystical reverence in this book for market forces and their ability, if left alone, to solve practically any social ill including racism. The problem is that Friedman presupposes that business will be forced to act in a rational and benevolent manner in order to maximize profits and survive in a competitive marketplace. Unfortunately this is often not the case. Businesses in the south were more than willing to forgo money offered by blacks. As a pro-business liberal Mr. Friedman sees regulations that force shops to hire blacks as unfair and damaging to those businesses that \\"[serve] a neighborhood inhabited by people who have a strong aversion to being waited on by a Negro clerk\\". However, Mr. Friedman's argument can be turned around as unfair and anti-capitalistic to blacks who offer their services and are denied based on race. This would apply to anyone barred from the marketplace, not just blacks.<br /><br />Milton Friedman is so pro-business that he advocates a complete elimination of corporate taxes. In his mind business owes nothing to society and even says, \\"there is one and only one social responsibility of business - to use its resources and engage in activities to increase its profits\\". He then goes even further stating that, \\"Few trends could so thoroughly undermine the very foundation of our free society as the acceptance by corporate officials of a social responsibility other than to make as much money for their stockholders as possible\\". Not only does Friedman encourage unbridled greed he makes it the number one corporate responsibility in order to protect \\"free society\\". Once a person accepts that the relentless pursuit of self interest is the best thing a person can do for society he or she can justify just about anything.<br /><br />One part of the book that seems particularly dated is Friedman's claim that Capitalism reduces wealth disparity. In fact he holds up the United States as a model for wealth equality. If only this were true. He completely ignores the real and growing threat to freedom brought on by the concentration of wealth because he doesn't see it as a problem. The average voting age citizen is welcome to vote for whichever party they choose at which point the parties in power will adjust policy to the needs of wealthy donors. The Bush administration has turned this it into an art form. Friedman also expresses concern that, \\"a large fraction of the public scrimps in their productive years to provide themselves with a higher standard of living in old age than theyever enjoyed in the prime of life\\". Mr. Friedman should be pleased to know that 40+ years after the books publication a large percentage of American's have more debt than assets.ever enjoyed in the prime of life\\". Mr. Friedman should be pleased to know that 40+ years after the books publication a large percentage of American's have more debt than assets.	2005-06-09
US	52547971	R2RNZ422WX3OPW	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Applying economics to everyday life	Freakonomics isn't so much about economics as it is about applying the tools of economics to real world issues and situations. Economics studies things like incentives, cause and effect, information asymmetry and unforeseen consequences. Before the first chapter even begins the authors land a heavy blow asserting that the rapid and unexpected decline in crime in the mid to late 90's was an unforeseen consequence of the legalization of abortion in 1973. After that bombshell the authors go on to tackle cheating sumo wrestlers, shifty real estate agents and even the Ku Klux Klan.<br /><br />One thing that economics teaches is that human nature isn't always predictable. Will parents be more or less likely to show up on time if a daycare center imposes a monetary penalty on late pickups? Contrary to expectations a three dollar penalty fee actually increased the rate of tardiness by more than double. The parents saw the small sum as an acceptable payment to buy off the guilt of being late.<br /><br />The book is filled with interesting stories and analysis but the true lesson is that people need to question `conventional wisdom'. A huge project in the 1990's was performed to study what behaviors and environments were conducive towards developing successful students. The study was comprehensive enough to allow for regression testing and the data revealed some surprising information. With everything else being equal children of divorcees performed just as well as children of intact families. Involvement in the Head Start program and frequent visits to the museum seemed to show no positive correlation while adoption showed a definite negative correlation. The low scoring of adopted children is additionally surprising because the study suggested that the reason was that parents with low IQ's tend to give up children for adoption more often. Contrary to conventional wisdom the data revealed that genetics not obsessive parenting account for the lion's share of academic success.<br /><br />At around 200 pages Freakonomics is a pretty quick read. It's a breezy and entertaining book but more than that it's informative with useful tips to help readers improve their own analytical skills. Occasionally questioning what is known is always a good thing to do.<br /><br />At around 200 pages Freakonomics is a pretty quick read. It's a breezy and entertaining book but more than that it's informative with useful tips to help readers improve their own analytical skills. Occasionally questioning what is known is always a good thing to do.	2005-06-03
US	52547971	R1OY0R1D4NBLFS	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	39	46	N	Y	Keeping children in a bubble	The title is a bit of a misnomer. The real title should be `Omissions in Twelve History Textbooks'. At this point most Americans know that George Washington and Thomas Jefferson had slaves but few probably realize than Patrick \\"Give me liberty or give me death\\" Henry also owned slave. It's no secret that Columbus was unkind to indigenous people but the depth of his brutality is still shocking. Mr. Loewen kicks over the shiny stone of carefully crafted American mythology to reveal the mud and worms beneath. Beyond just glossing over character flaws many history books create such blandness as when several popular textbooks describe the debate between Lincoln and Stephen Douglas focusing on their attire and posture ignoring the content of their speeches.<br /><br />History books aren't simply glossing over details. They are omitting THE defining characteristic of American history that being the pursuit of hegemony, first continental then global. Without understanding the primary American foreign policy how can Americans understand why the U.S. would engage in the destabilization of democratically elected governments and assassinations of leaders?  In Iran, for instance the United States helped to overthrow PM Massadegh and install the despised and oppressive shah. This kind of stuff happens all the time particularly in Central and South America and the Middle East meanwhile uninformed Americans cry out `why do they hate us?'. The history books also omit causation as if things just happen as in `...and war broke out' as if war were a rash that occasionally flares up without reason. History is about causation and context and students are taught neither,<br /><br />The central problem, as Mr. Loewen points out, comes from the very structure of our education system. History is the most politically charged of all subjects in primary education. One person's hero is another person's heel. Northern states may prefer the term \\"Civil War\\" while Southerners prefer \\"War between the states\\" or even \\"War for southern independence\\". In order to satisfy all potential markets history books are written bland like elevator music neither castigating true villainy nor celebrating actual heroes. The good news is that history books have improved to some extent although it's more a reflection of changing attitudes in society and acceptance of some of the more unpalatable details of our past.<br /><br />What impressed me the most about this book was how complete it is. While I was reading the book I thought about related topics and before the book was over Mr. Loewen ended up touching on each one. For instance he mentions the absurd afro-centrism which was intended to empower young blacks but instead credited blacks with creating everything good while whites were left creating only slavery and theft. The book also mentions the various right wing groups that unashamedly work towards creating a sanitized history. He even mentions Lynne Cheney by name. Meanwhile in an age where information is increasingly accessible it's becoming quite naïve to believe that students can be kept in bubble. Instead students are becoming cynical and disinterested which may explain why teaching history is often being relegated to gym teachers.e states\\" or even \\"War for southern independence\\". In order to satisfy all potential markets history books are written bland like elevator music neither castigating true villainy nor celebrating actual heroes. The good news is that history books have improved to some extent although it's more a reflection of changing attitudes in society and acceptance of some of the more unpalatable details of our past.<br /><br />What impressed me the most about this book was how complete it is. While I was reading the book I thought about related topics and before the book was over Mr. Loewen ended up touching on each one. For instance he mentions the absurd afro-centrism which was intended to empower young blacks but instead credited blacks with creating everything good while whites were left creating only slavery and theft. The book also mentions the various right wing groups that unashamedly work towards creating a sanitized history. He even mentions Lynne Cheney by name. Meanwhile in an age where information is increasingly accessible it's becoming quite naïve to believe that students can be kept in bubble. Instead students are becoming cynical and disinterested which may explain why teaching history is often being relegated to gym teachers.	2005-05-31
US	52547971	R1W8WS4620T2HQ	0226320618	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	8	15	N	Y	Lessons for the Left and Right	`The Road to Serfdom' is required reading among conservatives and F. A. Hayek's words can still be heard echoing throughout right wing think tanks. The problem is that an amazing linguistic bait and switch has occurred. Mr. Hayek's main argument is against socialism which he blames for Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy but what the author freely admits in his 1976 preface is that the definition of socialism has changed. When the book was written in the 1940's, Hayek was arguing against complete state ownership of business which he saw as the first step towards fascism. Today, however, socialism has become attached to the redistribution of wealth which is not the dictionary definition. The original ideas of socialism are dead so why is Hayek still so intently read? The fact is that some conservatives are trying to take Hayek's ideas to their extreme limit.<br /><br />Fredrick A. Hayek was vigorously opposed to collectivism and central planning. His assertion was that distributed planning is superior because decision makers are closer to the problem. The bigger issues are that central planning ruins Democracy by placing authority in the hands of unelected experts and enslaves citizens by creating institutions they may disapprove of. It's interesting to note that unelected experts make decisions all the time. The Judicial branch and the presidents' entire cabinet are unelected. If Hayek wanted to avoid the delegation of authority to unelected officials there would have to be a complete restructuring of the U.S. government. Also, Hayek's problem with central planning projects meeting universal or even majority approval seems unrealistic. Using Hayek's thinking Evolution would still be a restricted subject in the classrooms.<br /><br />Hayek was not specifying socialism per se as the cause of restrictions on freedom. His fight was against the broader problem of the concentration of power. It just happened that in the mid 1940's socialism WAS the greatest threat to the distribution of power. Mr. Hayek uses a quote by Hilaire Belloc that says, \\"The control of the production of wealth is the control of human life itself\\". Hayek mentions his lack of concern over the 50 to 1 disparity in wealth between the wealthiest and poorest Americans but how would he feel about the current 400 times or more disparity? The concentration of wealth IS the concentration of power and as such is as much a threat to freedom and democracy as socialism ever was.<br /><br />No doubt, F. A. Hayek was a pragmatist. Even while arguing against the socialist aim of bringing business and job placement fully under the control of the state, Hayek still had the foresight to warn against `excessive privatization'. Again, I have to wonder how Mr. Hayek would feel about privatization of Social Security, Education and even in some cases the military.<br /><br />Mr. Hayek listed some telltale signs of growing totalitarianism that seem eerily recognizable in the U.S. today including groupthink, suppression of information, the politicalization of science and a high state of nationalism. It's poor form to try and speak for the deceased so I wouldn't speculate on Hayek's opinion of the current Conservative movement but their far right members are certainly extending Hayek's ideas far beyond anything he expressed in \\"The Road to Serfdom\\". Despite his strong beliefs Hayek was still pragmatic enough to recognize moderation and a country run by lobbyists sitting on a mountain of cash doesn't seem like the free and democratic ideal that F. A. Hayek was envisioning.ibution of power. Mr. Hayek uses a quote by Hilaire Belloc that says, \\"The control of the production of wealth is the control of human life itself\\". Hayek mentions his lack of concern over the 50 to 1 disparity in wealth between the wealthiest and poorest Americans but how would he feel about the current 400 times or more disparity? The concentration of wealth IS the concentration of power and as such is as much a threat to freedom and democracy as socialism ever was.<br /><br />No doubt, F. A. Hayek was a pragmatist. Even while arguing against the socialist aim of bringing business and job placement fully under the control of the state, Hayek still had the foresight to warn against `excessive privatization'. Again, I have to wonder how Mr. Hayek would feel about privatization of Social Security, Education and even in some cases the military.<br /><br />Mr. Hayek listed some telltale signs of growing totalitarianism that seem eerily recognizable in the U.S. today including groupthink, suppression of information, the politicalization of science and a high state of nationalism. It's poor form to try and speak for the deceased so I wouldn't speculate on Hayek's opinion of the current Conservative movement but their far right members are certainly extending Hayek's ideas far beyond anything he expressed in \\"The Road to Serfdom\\". Despite his strong beliefs Hayek was still pragmatic enough to recognize moderation and a country run by lobbyists sitting on a mountain of cash doesn't seem like the free and democratic ideal that F. A. Hayek was envisioning.	2005-05-05
US	52547971	R2SQI6RC4XR6PQ	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	Powerful weapon for political debate	Cognitive scientist George Lakoff tries to make the point that ideas are all well and good but framing is the true key to swaying public opinion. Framing, he points out, is more than just slick salesmanship or sound bites, it's about creating established mindsets. It takes time, effort and repetition to engrain a frame into the collective consciousness of a society but once the frame is established the playing field will remain slanted in favor of the framers. The term \\"Tax Burden\\" is a link into a frame that says \\"Taxation is a burden and American's are overburdened\\". Once the frame is established the effort of arguing is 90 percent complete. Saying \\"Tax Burden\\" immediately keys into the crafted frame while efficiently and effortlessly tilting the battle in favor of Conservatives. Meanwhile liberals are left stuttering and stammering about taxes being the cost we pay for good roads, safe cities and a solid educational system. Another example would be `Social Security Reform' which automatically presupposes that Social Security is outdated and in need of reform. Once the frame `Social Security is old and crumbling' is established Conservatives are half way to the finish line. As Mr. Lakoff states, \\"Once a frame is accepted into the discourse, everything you say is just common sense\\".<br /><br />The depressing part is how easy it is for people to become numb to the facts around them and find themselves manipulated into working against their own self interest. As Mr. Lakoff states when faced with accepting new contrary evidence or altering an engrained frame most people choose to keep the frame and throw out the facts. On the bright side the author sees one inherent advantage on the side of progressives being that the agendas' of progressives are actually more popular among most Americans. In order to pass through a bill that relaxes regulations on pollution emissions the Republican Congress used the Orwellian name `Clear Skies Act'. As Mr. Lakoff states these kind of tactics are signs of weakness because Conservatives know that Americans inherently support a clean environment. The strength of the liberal progressive movement is that it doesn't need to deceive in order to construct popular frames. It's refreshing to hear George Lakoff talk about `honest' framing which stands in stark contrast to the win at any cost attitude of his counterpart on the right Frank Luntz. What could be more cynical than a smiling Frank Luntz saying, without a hint of irony, that he would call a logging bill the `Healthy Forest Bill' because it sounds good?<br /><br />I actually enjoyed Mr. Lakoff's much longer book `Moral Politics' even more. This book has an unfortunate tendency to be repetitive and wanders a bit in the middle chapters. Still, it's a great book for understanding framing and how important it is in political debate. Reframing is a collaborative effort and having a book like this to unite ideas is a good next step in re-steering the United States back onto a progressive route.tactics are signs of weakness because Conservatives know that Americans inherently support a clean environment. The strength of the liberal progressive movement is that it doesn't need to deceive in order to construct popular frames. It's refreshing to hear George Lakoff talk about `honest' framing which stands in stark contrast to the win at any cost attitude of his counterpart on the right Frank Luntz. What could be more cynical than a smiling Frank Luntz saying, without a hint of irony, that he would call a logging bill the `Healthy Forest Bill' because it sounds good?<br /><br />I actually enjoyed Mr. Lakoff's much longer book `Moral Politics' even more. This book has an unfortunate tendency to be repetitive and wanders a bit in the middle chapters. Still, it's a great book for understanding framing and how important it is in political debate. Reframing is a collaborative effort and having a book like this to unite ideas is a good next step in re-steering the United States back onto a progressive route.	2005-05-03
US	52547971	R2FSH4XWPRQ5TI	0375721002	420573804	The Official Beckett Price Guide to Baseball Cards 2005 Edition #25 (Official Price Guide to Baseball Cards)	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Huge holes in the guide	Comprehensive: \\"So large in scope or content as to include much.\\"<br /><br />The guide does indeed include a lot of cards. The guide states \\"...provides easy-to-use listings from all baseball manufacturers from 1948 to the present.\\" and  it's true that it does contain listings from all manufacturers. However, anyone planning on buying this guide should realize that there are enormous gaps. The guide often has gaps that span a half dozen or more years for major card companies like Upper Deck. When I bought the 2004 price guide I complained in a previous review that many of the sets I wanted to price were missing. In my naivety I figured that the 2005 price guide would fill in many of the gaps. I thought that Beckett would likely swap out some sets and replace them with others that were missing the previous year. My mistake.<br /><br />If you want listings for 1988 and 1989 Score traded sets you're in luck since they're in both the 2004 and 2005 price guides but if you want the regular sets too bad. So what does Beckett have against 1992 Upper Deck and 1991-2001 Fleer. Yes, the guide is missing 11 straight years of Fleer however 1990 Fleer appears in both guides. My 1988 Donruss set is MIA still I'm lucky that I didn't collect during the years from 1991-2001 for Donruss `cause they don't exist. I should give the guide a one star out of spite but I'll give it a two out of generosity.	2005-04-29
US	52547971	R1EWINZFBPF67N	0060797460	733354591	Bad News: The Decline of Reporting, the Business of News, and the Danger to Us All	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Dog bites man; U.S. Television journalism stinks	There was a time when broadcasters were required to provide a public service in order to retain their broadcasting license, that public service was the news. News networks were more interested in the prestige of offering the best content and competed fiercely. Following deregulation all the major media outlets were bought up by major corporations and the prestige of quality reporting took a backseat to ratings and cost management. The effect was to close almost all overseas bureaus, dumb down the news content and switch the business model from news gathering to news packaging. Purchased stories have to go through a variety of filters in order to reach the public. Is the story affordable, does it conflict with the business of the parent company or the advertisers, does it satisfy the target demographic, does it balance out the flow of the show and is it understandable in 30 seconds or less. Networks can now target viewing trends by the second and avoid stories that are shown to have a ratings dip.<br /><br />Tom Fenton has the connections to investigate the problem from within and the honesty to unleash heavy punches. `Bad News' is extremely dense with information and the writing style is at the same time hard hitting and engaging. It's certainly not a feel good book, after all Mr. Fenton draws a parallel between the various filters on American media reports and Soviet totalitarianism where citizens were fed a steady diet of government propaganda. The United States government is known for using `soft power' in order to gain influence and this extends to control on media content. There seems to be a quid pro quo relationship with the large media conglomerates and the government who owns the licenses. The White House in particular has become quite adept at freezing out unfavorable reporters. Ironically much of the problem is brought on by reporters themselves who are either too lazy, too worried about losing interviews or too budget constrained to actually do their own investigative journalism. It's much easier to recite White House talking points than investigate their validity or larger impact.<br /><br />It may be small consolation but the United States media is still doing better than most overseas. Sure, Al Jazeera may be showing U.S. inflicted carnage that doesn't reach our shores but that doesn't mean they don't have their own thick filters. Italy has practically a state run media monopoly and France media is owned almost exclusively by two conglomerates. In some ways the current U.S. media suffers from comparisons with what may have been the golden age of reporting during the Cold War. Unfortunately as bad as the news media has sunk since the end of the Cold War they seem to be continuing their race to the bottom with the modern day William Randolph Hearst, Rupert Murdoch leading the decent.<br /><br />Tom Fenton focuses almost exclusively on the decline of foreign reporting but he's missing the degradation in domestic reporting. The problem is that reporters have become little more than stenographers except in the case of partisan reporting like Fox News. Bush can travel the country giving clearly misleading information on the tax cut savings for the lower and middle class and the media says nothing. It's a delicate balancing act to offer context and informed judgment without biasing the report but stenographers can sometimes be worse than useless by giving legitimacy to lies. The lack foreign reporting and poor job in informing the public on important domestic issues leads to a vacuum that's being filled by agenda driven partisan reporting and ignorance has left the door wide open for political spin as was evident in the 2004 election.investigative journalism. It's much easier to recite White House talking points than investigate their validity or larger impact.<br /><br />It may be small consolation but the United States media is still doing better than most overseas. Sure, Al Jazeera may be showing U.S. inflicted carnage that doesn't reach our shores but that doesn't mean they don't have their own thick filters. Italy has practically a state run media monopoly and France media is owned almost exclusively by two conglomerates. In some ways the current U.S. media suffers from comparisons with what may have been the golden age of reporting during the Cold War. Unfortunately as bad as the news media has sunk since the end of the Cold War they seem to be continuing their race to the bottom with the modern day William Randolph Hearst, Rupert Murdoch leading the decent.<br /><br />Tom Fenton focuses almost exclusively on the decline of foreign reporting but he's missing the degradation in domestic reporting. The problem is that reporters have become little more than stenographers except in the case of partisan reporting like Fox News. Bush can travel the country giving clearly misleading information on the tax cut savings for the lower and middle class and the media says nothing. It's a delicate balancing act to offer context and informed judgment without biasing the report but stenographers can sometimes be worse than useless by giving legitimacy to lies. The lack foreign reporting and poor job in informing the public on important domestic issues leads to a vacuum that's being filled by agenda driven partisan reporting and ignorance has left the door wide open for political spin as was evident in the 2004 election.	2005-04-20
US	52547971	RZWHCB9ESH4FU	1400042216	392206348	Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America	Books	5	28	33	N	Y	Encouragement for Liberalism	In `Reason', Robert Reich labels the current crop of conservatives `Radcons' for radical conservatives. His intention is to differentiate the radical conservatives from tradition conservatives who appear to be a dying breed. The Radcons are recognized by their extremism including a pathologic faith in the free market and supply side economics as well an intense hatred for government safety nets including welfare, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Many Radcons go so far as to encourage tax cheating while the White House Radcons work to de-claw the IRS and SEC. `It's YOUR money' intones George W. Bush but the reduction in tax revenues means a reduction in services and safety nets. As Reich points out this kind of Darwinian, everyone for themselves attitude may work well for a frontier economy but it doesn't work so good for a post modern society. It's also one of the many ironies of the Radcon movement to push extreme patriotism with an utter lack of civic responsibility.<br /><br />As Clinton's Secretary of Labor, Robert Reich it probably most at home discussing business and economic matters and this is where the book shines. Reich is a big proponent of free trade and confesses that when it comes to protectionism the Democrats are as bad if not worse than the Republican's. `Reason' features a great explanation of Supply Side Economics and why it doesn't work. The idea is to reduce taxes on unearned income such as stock dividends and inheritance taxes. Not coincidently these are the taxes paid by the wealthy. The wealthy will then use the extra money to invest in American business causing companies to modernize and increase labor which will then spur a spike in the nations GDP. The problem that Reich points out is that the wealthy tend to have little to no national allegiance when it comes to investing. Another great book on the subject is Neoconomy by Daniel Altman. Altman pointed out that companies don't tend to modernize when they're already producing efficiently and production isn't currently a problem in the U.S. Rather than invest in modern equipment many companies are just creating gigantic golden parachutes for their executive staff. Reich also gives an explanation on how the national GDP can actually be a very misleading indicator of the health of the economy.<br /><br />The point Robert Reich tries to make is that liberals don't just have complaints they have solutions. Globalization is inevitable and the United States needs to prepare for truly stateless companies. There are two routs the United States can take. We can make the United States attractive by offering the world's best infrastructure, a safe environment and a top notch, well trained work force OR we can offer cheap labor. The Radcons have chosen the Wal Mart route. Reich points out that the U.S. will never be able to compete on cheap labor unless we dramatically reduce our standard of living. The liberal answer is investing in education, health and infrastructure and THAT requires a collective effort. Let's see, strengthening and improving the United States, one might almost accuse liberals of being *gasp* patriotic and pro-American.ntly and production isn't currently a problem in the U.S. Rather than invest in modern equipment many companies are just creating gigantic golden parachutes for their executive staff. Reich also gives an explanation on how the national GDP can actually be a very misleading indicator of the health of the economy.<br /><br />The point Robert Reich tries to make is that liberals don't just have complaints they have solutions. Globalization is inevitable and the United States needs to prepare for truly stateless companies. There are two routs the United States can take. We can make the United States attractive by offering the world's best infrastructure, a safe environment and a top notch, well trained work force OR we can offer cheap labor. The Radcons have chosen the Wal Mart route. Reich points out that the U.S. will never be able to compete on cheap labor unless we dramatically reduce our standard of living. The liberal answer is investing in education, health and infrastructure and THAT requires a collective effort. Let's see, strengthening and improving the United States, one might almost accuse liberals of being *gasp* patriotic and pro-American.	2005-04-12
US	52547971	RXEUIMCSN6NG5	1401203434	202604834	Plastic Man: On the Lam	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Plastic Man as he should be	When I saw \\"Plastic Man: On the Lam\\" I originally passed it over because the cover is absolutely horrible. The cover is supposed to look as if it's composed of Plastic Man's stretched body. It's even literally made of plastic but it looks really bad which is a shame because the contents are terrific. The reason I purchased the book was because the series won the Eisner award for best new series and I've tended to do well with Eisner award winners.<br /><br />On the Lam is a compilation of the first six issues of the recent Plastic Man series, written and drawn by Kyle Baker. My first and only experience with Kyle Baker's talent was a pair of short pieces done for the Bizarro books. Kyle has a very clean, bright artistic style that more resembles animation cells than comic panels. His only weakness is when he tries to draw realistic looking characters like in the brief appearance of the JLA.<br /><br />One of the problems with writing Plastic Man is trying to keep Plas sufficiently goofy without turning him into a goofball. Some of the Justice League writers allowed him to descend deep into ridiculousness. Plastic Man, like Captain Marvel, really needs to be placed into his own separate world. Kyle does a great job of establishing the classic Plastic Man universe, balancing cartooniness with a bit of an edge. Poor Plas ends up taking quite a beating in this adventure. He's stretched with hooks, frozen, nearly suffocated, eaten by an alligator and has his rear end melted with acetate. There was always a certain darkness behind the colorful plastic wrapping, after all Plastic Man is one of the few heroes who started his career as a criminal. Seeing a dead man's head flattened or Woozy Winky bleeding after a severe beating is jarring but that's the way Plastic Man comics are and why he's such a unique character.<br /><br />Kyle Baker's interpretation is one of the best I've seen. It's filled with legitimate humor and terrific art. I may be dense but somehow I didn't see the twist ending coming. Kudos to Kyle Baker for reinvigorating my interest in Plastic Man and kudos to DC Comics for releasing a truly unique and creative series.the twist ending coming. Kudos to Kyle Baker for reinvigorating my interest in Plastic Man and kudos to DC Comics for releasing a truly unique and creative series.	2005-04-08
US	52547971	RO5W3AAEHCRWY	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	4	50	60	N	Y	Unhappy view of Globalization	Here's a great scam. Offer up a large scale construction project to a country, something along the lines of a new dam or a power plant to supply electricity. Send in an economist to inflate the potential economic growth in GDP generated by the project. Lend the country the money to build the project and when the anticipated growth in GDP doesn't materialize and the country defaults on its loans you now own a country. Is this the way the world works or is it just the paranoid ravings of John Perkins?<br /><br />Perkins assertion is that the United States government works in collusion with the World Bank, IMF and large construction companies like Bechtel and Halliburton in order to set up a system of dependency or financial entanglement with third world and oil rich countries in Africa, South America and the Middle East. The goal is to extend the U.S. global empire and, in the past, to halt the spread of communism. With the fall of communism the goal has transformed into plain old greed and domination.<br /><br />Writers like Robert Kagan and Thomas Barnett have argued that there are two worlds out there. Barnett calls it the Core and the Gap. In the stable democratic Core we live by a certain set of rules, in the Gap we live by a different set. Barnett sees the U.S. involvement in the Gap like a cop walking a beat in a bad part of town, Kagan calls it the jungle and when in the jungle you need to fight by the laws of the jungle. The problem is, who decides what constitutes the Core and the Gap and how does this relate to business? Did the United States have the right to invade Panama, kill thousands of people and dispossess the lock because we didn't like Manual Noriega? Do indigenous people around the world not have the same property rights as American's if they live on valuable land? Do American corporations have the right to exploit people in poor countries and have them work under conditions illegal in the U.S.?<br /><br />John Perkins book is an apology and an attempt at atonement for his self perceived sins for the thousands of lives he's harmed. It's also a realization that he himself was responsible for his actions, not his parents, not his school not the people at MAIN who introduced him to the business of Economic Hit Man.<br /><br />In the end Perkins sees the United States standing at a crossroads and as on September 11th we may see more of the windfall of the anger fomented overseas. Perkins mentions that Asian countries might switch from the U.S. dollar to the Euro which could have disastrous effects on a U.S. economy that relies on Asian loans to support our lifestyles. This seems a bit off topic since Perkins never mentions U.S. corporations abusing Asia. In fact financial entanglement is one of the things that probably stops China from making such a move since American companies like Wal Mart import more from China than most entire countries including industrial powerhouses like Germany. Still, exposing the dark underbelly of globalization is a noble cause if only to try and improve our actions in the future. As Perkins says the United States is the one country on Earth that has the money and resources to do the right thing and improve the world for everyone and not just a small group at the top of the economic ladder.ttempt at atonement for his self perceived sins for the thousands of lives he's harmed. It's also a realization that he himself was responsible for his actions, not his parents, not his school not the people at MAIN who introduced him to the business of Economic Hit Man.<br /><br />In the end Perkins sees the United States standing at a crossroads and as on September 11th we may see more of the windfall of the anger fomented overseas. Perkins mentions that Asian countries might switch from the U.S. dollar to the Euro which could have disastrous effects on a U.S. economy that relies on Asian loans to support our lifestyles. This seems a bit off topic since Perkins never mentions U.S. corporations abusing Asia. In fact financial entanglement is one of the things that probably stops China from making such a move since American companies like Wal Mart import more from China than most entire countries including industrial powerhouses like Germany. Still, exposing the dark underbelly of globalization is a noble cause if only to try and improve our actions in the future. As Perkins says the United States is the one country on Earth that has the money and resources to do the right thing and improve the world for everyone and not just a small group at the top of the economic ladder.	2005-04-06
US	52547971	RE7O6WI6R00DA	1594200130	388201475	Colossus: The Price of America's Empire	Books	3	11	19	N	Y	Schizophrenic Argument for Empire	Niall Ferguson joins the chorus of rights wingers who believe that the United States should have seized the opportunity presented by the ending of the Cold War to establish a new American empire. His position is more surprising given the fact that he is British rather than American. The first chapter is a fairly persuasive argument that the United States has been in conflicts of choice and has engaged in empire building since its inception.<br /><br />As someone who has always supported the United Nations even I have to confess that I'm more charmed by the concept of the UN than the actual implementation. It's difficult to come up with a response when Ferguson argues that the UN causes more international paralysis than actual problem solving. Even in an extreme case such as ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Kosovo the UN chose to do nothing despites its stance against genocide.<br /><br />Author Ferguson also argues that the dismantling of European empires since World War II has had a debilitating effect on countries. He points to statistics that show that almost every country that has been given its autonomy has become economically worse for it. Niall tries the shift of blame off of globalization and places it on lousy and corrupt leadership in third world countries. Basically what he says is that when the white Europeans released control the countries went to pot. Iraq, for instance, was controlled by Britain for forty years before control was turned over. Many African nations have had over forty years of autonomy and continue to degrade. He never contemplates the possibility that a lengthy occupation might actually have had a withering effect on a nation's ability to lead itself.<br /><br />About two thirds of the way through the book Niall suddenly changes direction and begins defending the European Union against accusations by neo-conservative Robert Kagan that it has grown militarily weak and increasingly irrelevant. After spending considerable time pumping up the EU as a near equal to the U.S in terms of trade he again reverses course listing numerous dysfunctions in the EU that leave it no real challenge to the U.S. now or in the near future.<br /><br />In the final switch Ferguson starts discussing the fact that if currents trends continue the U.S. is facing a serious financial disaster thanks to ballooning debt and the weakening dollar. In this case the author is less enamored with Bush given that the policy of increased spending and tax cuts for the wealthy have only exasperated the problem. On foreign policy Bush is golden.<br /><br />It seems strange that Niall Ferguson would talk about empire building and an inevitable American financial crisis in the same book but then much of the book seems schizophrenic. He encourages occupations but then mentions that India and Egypt had terrible growths of GDP while occupied by Britain. Let's not even discuss Algeria. He claims that America can do empire building on the cheap and then complains about the lack of money going to Afghanistan. He considers the EU to be a rising power and then blasts it apart for its systemic defects. Ferguson is a technically proficient writer and I respect him for looking at both sides but I must confess that I was more persuaded by his inadvertent arguments against empire building than those for.e EU as a near equal to the U.S in terms of trade he again reverses course listing numerous dysfunctions in the EU that leave it no real challenge to the U.S. now or in the near future.<br /><br />In the final switch Ferguson starts discussing the fact that if currents trends continue the U.S. is facing a serious financial disaster thanks to ballooning debt and the weakening dollar. In this case the author is less enamored with Bush given that the policy of increased spending and tax cuts for the wealthy have only exasperated the problem. On foreign policy Bush is golden.<br /><br />It seems strange that Niall Ferguson would talk about empire building and an inevitable American financial crisis in the same book but then much of the book seems schizophrenic. He encourages occupations but then mentions that India and Egypt had terrible growths of GDP while occupied by Britain. Let's not even discuss Algeria. He claims that America can do empire building on the cheap and then complains about the lack of money going to Afghanistan. He considers the EU to be a rising power and then blasts it apart for its systemic defects. Ferguson is a technically proficient writer and I respect him for looking at both sides but I must confess that I was more persuaded by his inadvertent arguments against empire building than those for.	2005-03-29
US	52547971	R17GANV7LKM0Z7	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Neo-Con view of the future	I was a bit surprised when I got \\"Of Paradise and Power\\" and found that it more resembled a hardbound pamphlet than an actual book. There are only 101 pages of actual material and with a tiny book size of 8\\" by 5\\" Kagan's mini book can be breezed through in no time at all. I bring this up because it seems like a rather puny snack for the $18.00 U.S.A price tag printed on the inner dust jacket.<br /><br />The book is not only physically lightweight but lightweight on content in general. For an op-ed writer on the Weekly Standard Robert Kagan seems rather empty on opinions. As one of the Directors for `The Project for the New American Century' Robert Kagan certainly has opinions about the future of the `New World Order'. He seems to be trying to write like a detached historian simply presenting the unavoidable future. For instance, the neo-conservatives have had a love affair with building a missile defense system and Kagan tries to pass it off as a Clinton idea and a natural response to rogue nations with nuclear weapons. Never mind the cost, the feasibility or the danger of spurring a new arms race. Kagan never defends the missile defense system as he doesn't defend much of what he says he simply presents them as inevitable. On China Kagan asserts that it is our biggest rival and then quickly moves on.<br /><br />The point of the book, however, is the relationship between the United States and Europe. To Kagan Europe is great, it is the `Paradise' in `Of Paradise and Power'. Europe is also weak  and increasingly irrelevant. Kagan doesn't really disparage Europe for their pacifist attitude; after all, war brought the continent nothing but misery in the past century. The paradise, however, has been maintained for the past sixty years through American strength, defending the walls against Communism. Now that the Red Threat is no more, Kagan sees less reason for the U.S. to worry about its relationship with Europe or to continue to bind itself with international treaties like the ABM. On the last couple pages, however, Kagan suddenly decides that the United States SHOULD work towards good relations with Europe. I suppose Kagan is thinking that respect for Europe is the magnanimous thing to do even if it's technically unnecessary.<br /><br />There is a certain irony in the fact that the senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International PEACE would like to see a 30 percent increase in defense spending in order to modernize our military and maintain our global dominance. Kagan also encourages a gloves off attitude when the U.S. is fighting in less developed regions. When in the jungle fight by the rules of the jungle even if this includes ignoring international laws. The Europeans can live in their paradise while the U.S. maintains its hegemony.<br /><br />`Of Paradise and Power' takes a very calm measured tone but I suspect that Kagan's opinions are much stronger in reality than what he expresses here. I suppose that Kagan may have intended this as more of a book for the ages than a neo-conservative polemic which isn't such a bad thing.s like the ABM. On the last couple pages, however, Kagan suddenly decides that the United States SHOULD work towards good relations with Europe. I suppose Kagan is thinking that respect for Europe is the magnanimous thing to do even if it's technically unnecessary.<br /><br />There is a certain irony in the fact that the senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International PEACE would like to see a 30 percent increase in defense spending in order to modernize our military and maintain our global dominance. Kagan also encourages a gloves off attitude when the U.S. is fighting in less developed regions. When in the jungle fight by the rules of the jungle even if this includes ignoring international laws. The Europeans can live in their paradise while the U.S. maintains its hegemony.<br /><br />`Of Paradise and Power' takes a very calm measured tone but I suspect that Kagan's opinions are much stronger in reality than what he expresses here. I suppose that Kagan may have intended this as more of a book for the ages than a neo-conservative polemic which isn't such a bad thing.	2005-03-24
US	52547971	R1DPHESXOS5LFX	0809080737	610317250	The Rehnquist Court: Judicial Activism on the Right	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Analysis of a Conservative court	`The Rehnquist Court' is a compilation of articles by different writers critical of Supreme Court decisions made during the last couple of decades. One of the main issues is concerned with the rollback of civil rights gains made in the 1960's. These include prisoner and defendant rights, affirmative action and access for the handicapped. The writers are quick to point out that the Rehnquist years are anything but a complete liberal disaster. In many cases the Supreme Court has upheld freedom of speech as well as generally maintaining the separation of church and state. Make no mistake, many civil rights have been maintained despite the objections of the Conservative trifecta of Justices Scalia, Thomas and Chief Justice Rehnquist.<br /><br />Taken together the articles paint a particular ideological trend. The Rehnquist court tends to favor states rights over federal rights except in the case of business where the federal government suddenly gets the last say. In one case a state law restricted tobacco companies from putting up billboards in sight of school buildings. The Rehnquist court abandoned federalism and declared the law illegal because it went above and beyond federal restrictions. The Rehnquist court has also been pro-business in making it more difficult for individuals to sue companies particularly in the case of environmental damage. There seems to have been an ideological influence on the Rehnquist court from the Chicago School of economics which teaches undying faith in the market and its ability to self regulate. The Rehnquist court has shown an indifference towards anti-trust laws and a sometimes counterintuitive and bewildering approach towards insider trading. The effect has been a considerable consolidation of wealth in a small minority within the last several decades.<br /><br />In the case of states rights superceding federal authority the writers astutely point out that in many cases this renders the Bill of Rights useless or as Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez might say \\"quaint\\". When tobacco companies are restricted from posting billboards targeting children the Rehnquist court is ready to sweep in with federal authority but when clear and undeniable bias is shown in the execution of blacks the Supreme Court defers to the wisdom of the states. The general trend of reducing individual rights has had the effect of dramatically increasing the percentage of incarcerated Americans in the last two decades as well as increasing prison sentences. Incarceration has become the number one tool of social control and prisons have continued to focus on punishment over rehabilitation. On the Executive end Attorney General John Ashcroft sought to have all prosecuting attorneys seek the maximum sentence in all cases which would end plea bargaining.<br /><br />It looks as if the Rehnquist years are just about officially over which leaves \\"The Rehnquist Court\\" essentially a historical compilation of specific rulings however the writers make it clear that the legacy is far from over. There have been a tremendous amount of 5-4 decisions and if the court saw a couple of more uber-Conservatives like Scalia or Thomas things could change dramatically.Alberto Gonzalez might say \\"quaint\\". When tobacco companies are restricted from posting billboards targeting children the Rehnquist court is ready to sweep in with federal authority but when clear and undeniable bias is shown in the execution of blacks the Supreme Court defers to the wisdom of the states. The general trend of reducing individual rights has had the effect of dramatically increasing the percentage of incarcerated Americans in the last two decades as well as increasing prison sentences. Incarceration has become the number one tool of social control and prisons have continued to focus on punishment over rehabilitation. On the Executive end Attorney General John Ashcroft sought to have all prosecuting attorneys seek the maximum sentence in all cases which would end plea bargaining.<br /><br />It looks as if the Rehnquist years are just about officially over which leaves \\"The Rehnquist Court\\" essentially a historical compilation of specific rulings however the writers make it clear that the legacy is far from over. There have been a tremendous amount of 5-4 decisions and if the court saw a couple of more uber-Conservatives like Scalia or Thomas things could change dramatically.	2005-03-11
US	52547971	R2G8WTKDKV8SWV	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Excellent book for understanding Conservativism	Like many things in life politics is cyclical. The pendulum swings back and forth and somehow many in America seem to believe that Bush's 51% of the electorate represents the beginning of a thousand year dynasty of Conservativism as if a two percent difference were an insurmountable obstacle for liberals. The fact is that the Conservative surge is due to a combination of liberal extremism and failed social programs in the 60's and 70's and the tireless toiling on the part of conservative benefactors, intellectuals and grassroots organizations for over three decades.<br /><br />The movement is such a motley collection of disparate groups that it almost seems ridiculous to apply a single tag. One of the uniting features of these right wing organizations is distrust and often loathing of the federal government. So how does George W. Bush, the most visible symbol of the federal government keep Conservatives satisfied while expanding the power and size of the government immensely? The answer is by serving up \\"Red Meat\\". A doomed Gay Amendment for the Religious Right, a ban on stem cell research for the right to lifers, unsustainable tax cuts for the tax cutters, allowing the assault rifle ban to expire for the gun enthusiasts. It's a smorgasbord for single issue voters.<br /><br />Sure, the left has its share of wing nuts but the Conservatives seem to be able to show love for the most fringe groups imaginable from angry right wing hawks with \\"give war a chance\\" T-shirts to Grover Norquist who believes that avoiding taxes is the civil rights issue of our time and compares corporate tax cheats to Rosa Parks.<br /><br />So the next stage for Conservatives is to cement the political lead and make it permanent. First up is taking control of K Street. The good news is that Bush got the lobbyists off the steps of the Capitol building. The bad news is he moved them into the White House so they could set policy. As the writers stated, satisfying the lobbyists' means adjusting the strings and levers of business which means big government. The Republican's have gone so far as to demand that lobbyists be members of the Republican Party. Next is the media. Free Market Conservatives have been pushing to allow mega media conglomerations to lock up markets. The media companies feel beholden to the Republican Party and benefit from its continued domination. What could possibly go wrong?<br /><br />So here's the punch line. The ideas being expounded by Conservatives including property rights, smaller government and free market economics are all straight from classic liberalism. The issue becomes even muddier when it comes to Republican Conservatives not practicing what they preach. John Ashcroft firmly believes in states rights except in the cases where he doesn't. George W. Bush believes in smaller government and then creates the largest entitlement package since Nixon was president. He preaches free market and then imposes steel tariffs. The point is that a Conservative is essentially a person who declares them self to be Conservative. The movement is simply too diverse and malleable to facilitate a single definition.strings and levers of business which means big government. The Republican's have gone so far as to demand that lobbyists be members of the Republican Party. Next is the media. Free Market Conservatives have been pushing to allow mega media conglomerations to lock up markets. The media companies feel beholden to the Republican Party and benefit from its continued domination. What could possibly go wrong?<br /><br />So here's the punch line. The ideas being expounded by Conservatives including property rights, smaller government and free market economics are all straight from classic liberalism. The issue becomes even muddier when it comes to Republican Conservatives not practicing what they preach. John Ashcroft firmly believes in states rights except in the cases where he doesn't. George W. Bush believes in smaller government and then creates the largest entitlement package since Nixon was president. He preaches free market and then imposes steel tariffs. The point is that a Conservative is essentially a person who declares them self to be Conservative. The movement is simply too diverse and malleable to facilitate a single definition.	2005-03-03
US	52547971	R1VM01XH9ME6OG	0060558288	261484893	God's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It	Books	4	23	29	N	Y	Voice to counter the Religious Right	If I could ask George W. Bush one question it would be, `How have the teachings of your favorite philosopher Jesus Christ helped to shape the decisions of your presidency?'. The problem is that the values of Christ and the values of modern Conservatives are polar opposites. To say that helping the poor only contributes to a state of dependency and erosion of the family is certainly a philosophy but it wasn't the philosophy of Jesus. Jesus didn't advise his followers to slap the other guy in the face before he gets the opportunity to slap you. Jesus wasn't a Free Market Capitalist; if anything he was expounding a Socialist doctrine. Bush's Conservative values may be correct or they may be wrong but they certainly don't resemble the teachings of Christ even in the least. So how does one resolve a belief in Christ's divinity while ignoring his message utterly?<br /><br />Based on the 2004 election it seems that Republicans believe there are only two important issues to Christians; Abortion and Gay Rights; two issues that ironically Jesus said nothing about. Wallis asks what about capital punishment or preemptive strikes or unilateralism or helping the poor, sick and needy or fighting racism. As Wallis says the war on poverty has turned into a war on the poor as Conservatives feverishly try to stack the deck in favor of the rich. Young men and women from the lower ends of the economic spectrum are sent off to die in wars while the wealthiest American's get their taxes cut. As one writer said the difference between a Conservative and a Compassionate Conservative is that Compassionate Conservatives smile more.<br /><br />One astute observation that Wallis makes is that George W. Bush isn't practicing Christian Theology but instead practices Nationalistic Theology. Bush's speech writers tend to lace his speeches with Bible quotes but make edits that change the meaning of the words. Wallis gives specific examples where the writers substitute America into passages describing Christ or God. This, Wallis states, definitely skirts the edge of blasphemy. Instead of finding humility in faith Bush uses his Christian beliefs as justification for his actions.<br /><br />The left, particularly Secularists, also gets taken to task but I think that Wallis completely misses the mark. Wallis says, \\"The secular fundamentalists tell us that religion should be restricted to one's church or family. No talk of faith, they seem to be saying, ought to be allowed to seep into the public arena for fear of violating the First Amendment or alienating the nonreligious\\". What Secular fundamentalists? He lists the ACLU and Americans for the Separation of Church and State but his words are a complete distortion of their goals. Secularists are not trying to remove religion from the public discussion. As American's we have religion in our movies, on our car bumpers, on our vanity plates, in our magazines, on our news programs. The average bookstore has a larger selection of religious books than science books. You can scarcely leave your home without seeing evidence of the Christian majority. The ACLU and Americans for the Separation of Church and State have no intent or desire to ban any of this from the public arena except as it relates to government endorsement.<br /><br />The problem is when politicians like George W. Bush cynically use religion in order to garner votes, push agendas, bludgeon opponents and place themselves on a higher moral ground. Wallis sees Howard Dean's blundering attempt to talk about religion as evidence that Democrats are uncomfortable with religion. The real issue is that Howard Dean felt forced to talk about an unfamiliar subject because there is an unwritten religious purity test in this country. If Wallis is trying to create a religious message to counter the venom of the Religious Right it would help him not to parrot their rhetoric and lies.Christ or God. This, Wallis states, definitely skirts the edge of blasphemy. Instead of finding humility in faith Bush uses his Christian beliefs as justification for his actions.<br /><br />The left, particularly Secularists, also gets taken to task but I think that Wallis completely misses the mark. Wallis says, \\"The secular fundamentalists tell us that religion should be restricted to one's church or family. No talk of faith, they seem to be saying, ought to be allowed to seep into the public arena for fear of violating the First Amendment or alienating the nonreligious\\". What Secular fundamentalists? He lists the ACLU and Americans for the Separation of Church and State but his words are a complete distortion of their goals. Secularists are not trying to remove religion from the public discussion. As American's we have religion in our movies, on our car bumpers, on our vanity plates, in our magazines, on our news programs. The average bookstore has a larger selection of religious books than science books. You can scarcely leave your home without seeing evidence of the Christian majority. The ACLU and Americans for the Separation of Church and State have no intent or desire to ban any of this from the public arena except as it relates to government endorsement.<br /><br />The problem is when politicians like George W. Bush cynically use religion in order to garner votes, push agendas, bludgeon opponents and place themselves on a higher moral ground. Wallis sees Howard Dean's blundering attempt to talk about religion as evidence that Democrats are uncomfortable with religion. The real issue is that Howard Dean felt forced to talk about an unfamiliar subject because there is an unwritten religious purity test in this country. If Wallis is trying to create a religious message to counter the venom of the Religious Right it would help him not to parrot their rhetoric and lies.	2005-02-26
US	52547971	R1HNL9Y48ZNSFB	1401206565	906042609	Bizarro World	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Less than the first but still great	Bizarro World had a lot to live up to following in the footsteps of the award winning Bizarro released several years ago and well... it fell short. The new Bizarro book is excellent but just not as memorable as the original. The Bizarro books (can it now be called a series?) use popular alternative cartoonists to create short stories featuring characters from the DC universe from icons like Superman to obscure characters like Kamandi.<br /><br />Here are some of my favorite stories from Bizarro World.<br /><br />In \\"The Wonder of it All\\" a high school aged Wonder Woman learns that using her new Golden Lasso to force her friends to give their honest opinions about her nets her more information than she wanted.<br /><br />The Spectre/Jim Corrigan unleashes his ghostly vengeance on his fellow officers at the police station for such minor infractions as hogging the copy machine. It's actually pretty funny.<br /><br />Green Lantern has a revelation about his weakness to the color yellow in \\"It's not Easy Being Green\\". The story seems like a homage to the old EC Mad magazine comics.<br /><br />In \\"The Power of Positive Batman\\" Bruce Wayne finally resolves his issues with the murder of his parents and decides to retire and sail around the world. Clark Kent decides to join him and the two sail off.<br /><br />Aquaman decides to attend open mic night and sing a song about his relationship with Mera. Like a lot of the stories this one is just sort of a slice of life tale showing the private lives of superheroes.<br /><br />Tony Millionaire returns with another strange Batman story. His art has a very old gothic style to it as if the story were something dug up from the 40's rather than a brand new tale.<br /><br />In \\"Personal Shopper\\", Alfred is out describing, to a mechanic, the specifications for a car he wants to purchase. You know, bulletproof, 200 MPH, space for rocket launchers, huge bat like fins on the rear. Wonder who that might be for?<br /><br />There are also some clunkers in the batch. Lantern Sentai in particular seemed pointless besides showing the Lantern Corps as Manga. In \\"Jing Kal-El\\" the Superman origin is rewritten with Kal landing at the North Pole and taking on the mantle of Santa Claus. I just couldn't figure out why. Some of the stories just stopped as if they're meant to be continued in another edition of Bizarro. \\"Bizarro Schmizarro\\", for instance has Luthor change Bizarro no. 1024 into a normal looking Superman (save for the Question mark on his chest) and then the story stops with a promise of more to come.<br /><br />Bizarro World is sometimes great and sometimes not so great. It's less than the original book but I still recommend it. The Bizarro series has a long way to fall before it can be considered average.e clunkers in the batch. Lantern Sentai in particular seemed pointless besides showing the Lantern Corps as Manga. In \\"Jing Kal-El\\" the Superman origin is rewritten with Kal landing at the North Pole and taking on the mantle of Santa Claus. I just couldn't figure out why. Some of the stories just stopped as if they're meant to be continued in another edition of Bizarro. \\"Bizarro Schmizarro\\", for instance has Luthor change Bizarro no. 1024 into a normal looking Superman (save for the Question mark on his chest) and then the story stops with a promise of more to come.<br /><br />Bizarro World is sometimes great and sometimes not so great. It's less than the original book but I still recommend it. The Bizarro series has a long way to fall before it can be considered average.	2005-02-19
US	52547971	R4MGNX1461123	0393057755	361013472	Terror and Liberalism	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	The latest pathological cult of death	Terror and Liberalism starts off by discussing what I have always believed was an obvious truth but have never heard another author talk about. That being that the left and right edges of the political spectrum are not endpoints on a line but in fact the link of a full circle. Fascism and Communism meet at totalitarianism. Paul Berman maps out a template for totalitarian dictators like Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini and Franco. To this list he adds Saddam Hussain and his Baathist Socialist Party which combines ideas from both ends of the political spectrum including admiration for both the Soviet Union and Hitler. Berman mentions that there was a time within the 20th century when 30 percent of the people in Baghdad were Jewish. Hitler's anti-Semitism has had an obvious influence. The Islamist movement is a similar co joining of the extreme left and right meeting at totalitarianism.<br /><br />One writer that Berman spends a lot of time talking about is Sayyid Qutb, an Islamist philosopher who was put to death in Egypt back in 1966. Qutb wrote about the erosion of Islam due to the influence of Western secularization. His desire was to see a pure Islamic state created with the reinstatement of shariah laws. He hated the Jewish Zionists and Christian Crusaders and his basic goals seemed to mirror the goals of Bin Laden and Khomeini as if perhaps they were influenced by his writings. Qutb saw the pure Islamic state as a liberal utopia which seems, to a western mind, incompatible with his desire for seventh century justice including public stonings, severed limbs and a totalitarian law that applies to all public and private behavior. These Islamists have sunk into a pathological state creating a `cult of death' where philosophers and leaders revel in killing for the sake of killing. They see blood as purification. The bombshell is that these kind of nihilistic views are nothing new. They are no more violent that the writings in France during the Terror or Nazi Germany or Stalinist Russia or the British occupiers of Africa where blacks were killed for seemingly no purpose besides performing the act. Berman argues that this cult of death is very much influenced by western philosophy and the results of WW I and II.<br /><br />The author spends some time showing his admiration for the Bush administrations desire to improve the lives of women in Afghanistan as well as spreading Democracy to the Middle East. I was a worried that Berman was being naïve but he redeems himself completely in the last chapter. Bush's talk of spreading freedom and democracy and women's rights is a very liberal stance so why are liberals not cheering? As Berman points out the problem is that this is diametrically opposite of Bush's past views. He was never concerned about women's rights and went on record stating that he was against nation building. He even implied that if given the choice he would have stayed out of the Balkans. So how does a man unmoved by genocide suddenly decide to spread liberalism to the Middle East particularly since he so enjoys denigrating liberals? This cuts to the heart of the matter. Bush is a realist masquerading as an idealist although I question whether his reality matches the reality of our planet. The Daily Show did a segment on Bush's 2004 acceptance speech and counted the incredibly high number of times Bush used the words freedom and liberty. Believing in freedom, democracy and liberty are all well and good but if you continue to support repressive regimes it shows you are working in bad faith. You can't support Saudi Arabia, a monarchy and one of the worst offenders of human rights in the world, and claim to be spreading freedom and democracy. Bush recognizes Pakistan as a Democracy despite the fact that General Pervez Musharraf took over in a military coup and has never had a legitimate election. Working with allies based on strategic interest is fine but it cuts against Bush's idealistic moral rhetoric. He's working in bad faith which may work with American's who suck up his glittering future but not so well with foreigners who recognize the hypocrisy of his words.<br /><br />Ultimately the problem of terrorism needs to be addressed on both sides of the political spectrum. Liberals need to recognize that even with putting the violence aside for a moment the Islamist movement remains a racist, sexist, and bigoted movement with desires to create a theocratic totalitarian society. It is the opposite of liberal social ideals. Half a century ago many liberals made the mistake of defending Communism. The Islamist movement is undeserving of any liberal sympathy. The right needs to stop promoting unilateralism, preemptive strikes and excursions into fantastic nation building as in Iraq and start working in good faith.th which may work with American's who suck up his glittering future but not so well with foreigners who recognize the hypocrisy of his words.<br /><br />Ultimately the problem of terrorism needs to be addressed on both sides of the political spectrum. Liberals need to recognize that even with putting the violence aside for a moment the Islamist movement remains a racist, sexist, and bigoted movement with desires to create a theocratic totalitarian society. It is the opposite of liberal social ideals. Half a century ago many liberals made the mistake of defending Communism. The Islamist movement is undeserving of any liberal sympathy. The right needs to stop promoting unilateralism, preemptive strikes and excursions into fantastic nation building as in Iraq and start working in good faith.	2005-02-14
US	52547971	ROFTSRWBGCIAJ	1566632285	670019403	Neo-conservatism: The Autobiography of an Idea	Books	4	37	50	N	Y	Father of modern Conservative Punditry	Irving Kristol has been declared by some to be the father of neo-conservatism. This is the same philosophical group that has gained such prominence of late in the Pentagon and Bush White House. The same group that Pat Buchanan claims are Liberals rotting away the core of Conservativism.<br /><br />Neo-conservatives are said to be `Liberals who've been mugged'. Supposedly this awakens them from their idealist fantasies into the cold, hard world called reality. This book is pieced together from articles written by Kristol spanning over half a century on a wide range of topics. It quickly and sadly becomes clear that Kristol's ideas have had a HUGE influence on modern Conservative polemics. Many of his ideas echo in the words of Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter, Sean Hannity, Michael Savage and many others. However unlike the members of that list of shame Irving Kristol generally manages to retain his dignity and not delve into the infantile behavior of his unfortunate emulators.<br /><br />The book chronicles Kristol's journey from young Trotskyite to anti-communist liberal to just plain anti-liberal. I suppose once Communism began to fade Kristol needed to focus his dissatisfaction somewhere and he never forgave those liberals who worked as apologists for Stalin. Kristol also built up a high degree of animosity towards liberals during the radical era of the sixties.<br /><br />I do recommend this book for anyone interested in learning about where today's Conservative pundits got their ideas from. It certainly makes Limbaugh and crew look far less creative. Kristol also has a much better writing style and a much wider array of interests than today's Conservative writers and if liberals can get past some of Kristol's more distasteful and sometimes pompous views they may even find themselves agreeing with some of his points.<br /><br />It's on the last page that Kristol really seems to come apart at the seams. Here are words by Kristol that could have come straight from something written by Coulter or Hannity:<br /><br />\\"But what began to concern me more and more were the clear signs of rot and decadence germinating within American society - a rot and decadence that was no longer the consequence of liberalism but was the actual agenda of contemporary liberalism.\\"<br />Kristol, Neo-Conservativism p. 486<br /><br />\\"I no longer had to pretend to believe - what in my heart I could no longer believe - that liberals were wrong because they subscribe to this or that erroneous opinion on this or that topic. No - liberals were wrong, liberals are wrong, because they are liberals. What is wrong with liberalism is liberalism - a metaphysics and a mythology that is woefully blind to human and political reality.\\"<br />Kristol, Neo-Conservativism p. 486hing written by Coulter or Hannity:<br /><br />\\"But what began to concern me more and more were the clear signs of rot and decadence germinating within American society - a rot and decadence that was no longer the consequence of liberalism but was the actual agenda of contemporary liberalism.\\"<br />Kristol, Neo-Conservativism p. 486<br /><br />\\"I no longer had to pretend to believe - what in my heart I could no longer believe - that liberals were wrong because they subscribe to this or that erroneous opinion on this or that topic. No - liberals were wrong, liberals are wrong, because they are liberals. What is wrong with liberalism is liberalism - a metaphysics and a mythology that is woefully blind to human and political reality.\\"<br />Kristol, Neo-Conservativism p. 486	2005-01-28
US	52547971	R18FBCMZ6SI22O	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Hubris: Overbearing pride or presumption; arrogance	America's popularity has hit rock bottom. In the Middle East disapproval ratings generally run between 80 and 90 percent. So why do they hate us? Contrary to the rhetoric of the White House and Conservative pundits Anonymous states the obvious `It's our policies they hate'. Denying reality only exasperates the problem.<br /><br />The writer unleashes a scathing commentary on the White House, the intelligence community, the `Elites' (whoever they are) and just about anyone else involved in the Afghan/Iraqi debacle. The `Hubris' is what causes us to engage in nation building without analysis. We Americans are engaged in flights of fancy where optimism alone can reshape centuries of culture overnight. In a sense the Bush administration diminishes the sacrifices that Americans and Europeans have made over the centuries in the fight for freedom, equality and Democracy by suggesting that it can be imposed on a people who consider them completely foreign ideas.<br /><br />The main point is that we need to keep the focus on destroying the enemy and the enemy is al Qaeda and its offshoots. Nation building is costly, resource intensive and likely to end in failure. Anonymous states that our Generals are taught one thing and asked to do another. War isn't about speed or low casualties or bloodless combat. It's about crushing the enemy until they have no more will to fight. Killing 20% of the Taliban or Iraqi army leaves 80% to fight another day. If politicians looked at war in that respect they might not be so quick to pull the trigger.<br /><br />Anonymous sees Usama Bin Laden not as a madman but as a worthy opponent and as such worthy of serious American resolve. Instead of tackling the enemy we gave him a gift beyond measure in our occupation of Iraq.<br /><br />Liberals may flock to this book because of its Bush White House bashing but be warned that the writer suggests ramping up the war, ending our defense at any cost relationship with Israel and ripping into the Alaskan wilderness to free ourselves from Middle Eastern oil dependency. Anonymous is a realist but some may not be so thrilled with his reality.wilderness to free ourselves from Middle Eastern oil dependency. Anonymous is a realist but some may not be so thrilled with his reality.	2005-01-21
US	52547971	R13AGXFSXK7HX0	0691099995	311011590	Eight Preposterous Propositions: From the Genetics of Homosexuality to the Benefits of Global Warming	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Analyzing some timely issues	Robert Ehrlich tackles eight interesting and often timely topics including the possibility of homosexuality being genetic and the possible \\"benefits\\" of global warming. The book does an excellent job of giving each proposition the benefit of the doubt and carefully examines the evidence for and against.<br /><br />In the chapter \\"Can Sugar Pills Cure You?\\" Ehrlich not only addresses the proposition that placebo's actually work in helping with pain (not a surprise) but also discusses how easy it is for a drug that is essentially a placebo to get FDA approval. The FDA doesn't require double blind tests to use \\"active\\" placebo's i.e. placebo's that mimic a drugs side effect. This can easily cause the test to become unblinded. Since a drug only needs to be a small fraction more effective than the placebo, unblinding can easily give a false positive. This is only one way in which FDA approval is flawed. A drug like Prozac shows little effectiveness beyond the placebo effect yet has a 225,000 percent markup over manufacturers cost.<br /><br />The chapter on Global Warming presented a lot of information for and against the dangers of Global Warming. The end result seemed to be that Global Warming is more than likely occuring but he gave one flake for the proposition that we shouldn't worry about it. Based on the information in the chapter the flakiness of not worrying about Global Warming would seem to be specific to the individual. A teenager should probably be more worried than a seventy year old. Someone living on the coast should be more worried than someone living inland and someone living in a third world country should be more worried than someone living in the United States. It seems odd that Ehrlich gave a universal one flake.<br /><br />The final subject on high cholesterol being perfectly safe played off like a tennis match. Does high cholesterol increase the risk of congenital heart failure or not? The evidence seemed to go back and forth but in the end Ehrlich sided with the evidence that lowering your cholesterol is healthy for your heart. However he does once again take a deserved swipe at the FDA with respect to some cholesterol reducing drugs such as gemfrobrizil, lovastatin and clofibrate. Many healthy people are being encouraged to take these statins and Ehrlich has concerns that the people taking these drugs are essentially guinea pigs similar to the women who had hormone replacement therapy and discovered that the cure was worse than the disease. These drugs may be carcinogenic and raise the risk of cancer.<br /><br />Although the book is about specific topics it's a great guide for learning scientific analysis in general. Understanding terms like \\"regression to the mean\\" can actually be applied to real world problems. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to increase their analysis and decision making abilities.sided with the evidence that lowering your cholesterol is healthy for your heart. However he does once again take a deserved swipe at the FDA with respect to some cholesterol reducing drugs such as gemfrobrizil, lovastatin and clofibrate. Many healthy people are being encouraged to take these statins and Ehrlich has concerns that the people taking these drugs are essentially guinea pigs similar to the women who had hormone replacement therapy and discovered that the cure was worse than the disease. These drugs may be carcinogenic and raise the risk of cancer.<br /><br />Although the book is about specific topics it's a great guide for learning scientific analysis in general. Understanding terms like \\"regression to the mean\\" can actually be applied to real world problems. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to increase their analysis and decision making abilities.	2005-01-13
US	52547971	R36JZ5BHLZW4WN	0226467716	768676081	Moral Politics : How Liberals and Conservatives Think	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	A lot to think about	Political Morality is a thought provoking attempt to create metaphorical models of liberal and conservative mindsets. Conservatives use the Strict Father model while liberals use the Nurturing Parent model. These two models do an amazing job of explaining the beliefs of the two opposing sides in such disparate subjects as abortion, education, welfare, love of country and so on.<br /><br />In one respect Moral Politics is rather bleak as there seems to be no possible d&eacute;tente between the two sides. Mr. Lakoff seems to see this as a zero sum battle. For instance, in education liberals prefer to teach children various views and beliefs, even including conservativism. Conservatives, however, see this as cultural and moral relativism. Conservatives push conservative values at the exclusion of all others. There is no middle ground, either conservatives win or liberals win.<br /><br />Although Mr. Lakoffs' cognitive models are as good as any I could imagine, he does upon occasion seem to shoehorn beliefs into one or the other. For instance he argues that Newt Gingrich's desire to take children away from welfare mothers and place them into orphanages follows the Strict Father model because the welfare mothers are without a doubt failures at parenting. Better to let the state take over in order to instill those Strict Father values. I would argue that Gingrich's proposal has less to do with his desire to satisfy his Strict Father beliefs and more to do with the fact that he despises welfare mothers.<br /><br />It almost seems that the words conservative and liberal have been entirely absconded by politicians. There was an article in American Conservative magazine, after the 2004 election, titled \\"Bush 2, Conservativism 0\\". The gist of the article was the Bush was literally killing conservativism, meanwhile Bush is seen as the standard bearer of conservative values. Pat Buchanan wrote a book claiming that liberals had infiltrated the White House in the guise of neo-conservativism. So who's correct, American Conservative, Pat Buchanan or the Bush backers? It seems that conservatives are whomever self proclaimed political conservatives declare themselves to be.<br /><br />Without a doubt Moral Politics gives the reader a LOT to think about. George Lakoff is able to make coherent sense out of conservatives desire to ban abortions while they work towards cutting funding for pre and post natal care. In a age where the rate of infant mortality in the United States is one of the worst of any industrialized nation it boggles the liberal mind how conservatives can place the welfare of an unborn, unwanted child above one that is wanted. Solving that conundrum alone is worth the price of admission.ervativism. So who's correct, American Conservative, Pat Buchanan or the Bush backers? It seems that conservatives are whomever self proclaimed political conservatives declare themselves to be.<br /><br />Without a doubt Moral Politics gives the reader a LOT to think about. George Lakoff is able to make coherent sense out of conservatives desire to ban abortions while they work towards cutting funding for pre and post natal care. In a age where the rate of infant mortality in the United States is one of the worst of any industrialized nation it boggles the liberal mind how conservatives can place the welfare of an unborn, unwanted child above one that is wanted. Solving that conundrum alone is worth the price of admission.	2004-12-29
US	52547971	RHSQJ89FFS7Q4	0142003220	932875476	For Your Eyes Only (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Bond, in short story form	\\"For Your Eyes Only\\" was the last Bond film to actually take its plot from the Fleming stories. It pasted together three tales, two from \\"For Your Eyes Only\\", which included the short story of the same name and the short story \\"Risico\\". The film also borrowed some of its plot from \\"From Russia With Love\\". \\"Risico\\" includes the small gang war between Kristatos and Colombo while \\"For Your Eyes Only\\" was used to create the character of Melina Havelock who hunts for her parents killers.<br /><br />The Bond books are always much smaller in scale than the movies and these five stories are smaller still. \\"Quantum of Silence\\" doesn't even feature Bond in an active role, he's only a passive listener to another man's tale of a wife's infidelity. The final story, \\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\" was my personal favorite with a classic tale of revenge and a satisfyingly ironic method of killing.<br /><br />I would have to place this book as an average Fleming effort. I think that Bond works better in full novel form. It's a bit of a letdown when the man who took down Goldfinger and Dr. No is now taking on a miniscule nest of three Russian spies working out of a bush in France. Yes, their headquarters is a bush.	2004-12-23
US	52547971	R10J7AKGGFRGW0	0399151753	462275401	The Pentagon's New Map: War and Peace in the Twenty-First Century	Books	4	13	23	N	Y	Vision of Global Peace	Thomas Barnett comes right out and says it. Don't ask when the troops are coming home. They're not coming home. Obviously troops will be cycled in and out but the war on terror and closing of the Gap will be an ongoing process.<br /><br />Author Barnett takes a refreshing and non-partisan look at America's goals for the coming decades. The world is divided into the Core (integrated countries) and the Gap (nonintegrated countries). Integration includes economics and information. The goal is to increase the size of the Core and reduce the size of the Gap. Barnett invokes a much brighter future than the dismal one expressed by President Bush. In fact Barnett describes the Administrations efforts to sell their plan as \\"Boneheaded\\". I might suggest that it's not Bush's failure to elucidate his vision it's the fact that Barnett's vision and Bush's vision are not the same.<br /><br />Mr. Barnett is explicit about the fact that he's not trying to sell the Pax Americana that's so vogue these days amongst neo-conservatives. His goal is American global hegemony with a dream of seeing the end of war. Barnett points out that we've already entered an era where wars between nations seem to have practically halted. He argues that it's now time to focus on internecine wars in order to cement global security.<br /><br />I am completely opposed to Bush's war in Iraq but I can, at least, appreciate Barnett's vision. The problem as I see it is that any book advocating global hegemony should at least address the fear of corruption from within. I don't agree with Barnett that we can rely on past successes and idealism. George W. Bush is not FDR and he's not Truman and he's not Lincoln and his successor will be someone even entirely different. The willingness to become the global policemen does not make us above the law. Barnett agues that there needs to be a different rule set in policing the Core and policing the Gap but where does it end? Does the Geneva Convention apply in the Gap and if not who decides that? Is Abu Ghraibe type torture ok in the Gap? Is it ok for the United States to write the Constitution of Iraq and allow it to be carved up by foreign investors? How much suffering do people have to go for their own good? Now more than ever the American people should carefully scrutinize that actions of the Federal government.<br /><br />I wish Barnett could have expressed the responsibility of global hegemony instead of using the unfortunate phrase \\"might makes right\\".if not who decides that? Is Abu Ghraibe type torture ok in the Gap? Is it ok for the United States to write the Constitution of Iraq and allow it to be carved up by foreign investors? How much suffering do people have to go for their own good? Now more than ever the American people should carefully scrutinize that actions of the Federal government.<br /><br />I wish Barnett could have expressed the responsibility of global hegemony instead of using the unfortunate phrase \\"might makes right\\".	2004-12-17
US	52547971	R12SE33VS3YMIT	0743257499	397461193	Civilization and Its Enemies: The Next Stage of History	Books	2	15	52	N	Y	Argument for Pax Americana	The book starts off well enough with an interesting psychological theory behind the attack on September 11th but the book starts to really wander in the middle chapters and falls to pieces at the end.<br /><br />Author Harris seemed to be building his case for American Global Hegemony in a rather roundabout way but the crux of the argument is that Western Civilization is superior to all others and for the sake of our future must be spread throughout. Our superior western ways started with the Spartans and culminated with Protestantism. Gee, I wonder what religion Lee Harris is?<br /><br />Harris spends time hitting the various neo-conservative bullet points including fawning over Adam Smith and deriding intellectuals for causing all the problems of the 20th century. He labels Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin as intellectuals. I could see Marx and Lenin as intellectuals but Stalin? Maybe I don't read enough neo-conservative literature but I've never seen Hitler and Mussolini described as intellectuals. And what about their equal in bloodshed Mao Tse-Tung? His movement was anti-intellectual. And what the heck is Harris considered in writing a philosophical book on the future of conflict, if not an intellectual?<br /><br />By the final chapter Harris casts aside his measured demeanor and goes on a Left bashing tirade that would bring a smile to Ann Coulter's face. At no point, until the last chapter, does Harris use the word Left but once the floodgates are open, look out. Those on the Left are unrealistic idealists at best, enemies of the state at worst for they do not recognize that it is the moral duty of the United States to extend our Western philosophies of government and commerce to every corner of the Earth. Since the U.S. has been encouraging Democracy and Capitalism since before any of us were born I assume that Harris is suggesting an Iraqi style accelerated pace whereby we make countries `an offer they cannot refuse'.<br /><br />Harris argues that there are SOME people who don't BELIEVE that the people in non-Western countries can handle Democracy and he finds that to be racist. This is the same tactic used by George W. Bush. Who are these shadowy people? Are they on the Left or on the Right? They're strawmen created to try and make the president and Lee Harris look caring. In the authors mind, if the United States DOESN'T force the world into a Western Style model we would be treating non-westerners like animals in cages suitable only for viewing. Never mind the fact that many countries around the world would disagree that the United States is apex of morality. A lot of countries are appalled by our rate of incarceration and we're one of the few industrialized countries left that still has the death penalty.<br /><br />Growing up I was taught that might doesn't make right, Harris disagrees in fact he literally states that `might makes right'. The reason is that might is a byproduct of a well organized society and why shouldn't the most well organized society be the one to spread it's philosophies and structure to the weaker, less organized societies. See, I always thought that the Nazi's were morally wrong because of their contempt for human life but Harris has taught me that the Nazi's were morally wrong only because they lost.E people who don't BELIEVE that the people in non-Western countries can handle Democracy and he finds that to be racist. This is the same tactic used by George W. Bush. Who are these shadowy people? Are they on the Left or on the Right? They're strawmen created to try and make the president and Lee Harris look caring. In the authors mind, if the United States DOESN'T force the world into a Western Style model we would be treating non-westerners like animals in cages suitable only for viewing. Never mind the fact that many countries around the world would disagree that the United States is apex of morality. A lot of countries are appalled by our rate of incarceration and we're one of the few industrialized countries left that still has the death penalty.<br /><br />Growing up I was taught that might doesn't make right, Harris disagrees in fact he literally states that `might makes right'. The reason is that might is a byproduct of a well organized society and why shouldn't the most well organized society be the one to spread it's philosophies and structure to the weaker, less organized societies. See, I always thought that the Nazi's were morally wrong because of their contempt for human life but Harris has taught me that the Nazi's were morally wrong only because they lost.	2004-12-14
US	52547971	R18X5GMFDR5NG0	0375720553	444092844	Official Beckett Price Guide to Baseball Cards 2004	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Some Problems	It's a huge book, over 600 pages but there are a few problems.<br /><br />1. A lot of years are skipped. For instance Upper Deck '92 is missing as well as '96 through '98. Every manufacturer seems to be missing years whether it be Donruss, Fleer, Ultra, Score, Stadium Club. You name it. A lot of traded series are also missing.<br /><br />2. Don't plan on using this as a reference guide for any length of time because the pages start falling out practically the moment it first opened.<br /><br />The solution for Beckett is simple. Don't include every card. Over half of the 1991 Score series is 2 cent cards. Just state that unlisted cards are 2 cents and you'd save yourself a couple of pages. The book would literally be half the size or less and then Beckett could include more sets.	2004-10-20
