US	52542864	R2B6A0KL2AY5MF	0787975923	499133737	The Last Word and the Word after That: A Tale of Faith, Doubt, and a New Kind of Christianity	Books	4	177	197	N	N	A dangerous book--in a good way	This is the third book in McLaren's trilogy of narratives involving Pastor Dan and \\"Neo,\\" here called by his given name Neil. Thankfully, this book drops the near-worship of Neo that was so irritating in the previous volumes.  <br /> <br />Although not a scholarly work per se, I do appreciate the research behind it, just as I appreciate a sermon that shows solid research and is not just a bunch of half-baked ideas based on unrelated scriptures taken out of context and strung together. There is a simplified synopsis of the possible origins of the belief in hell. There is the interesting idea that Jesus was using the Pharisee's doctrine of hell and turning it on its head. There is a helpful table on scriptures from the Gospel that indicate either hell or some type of judgment that people have often contrued as hell, and boils them down to the actual point. If you think that Christianity needs the threat of hell to win converts, this might be considered a dangerous book. Even more dangerous are the hints that evangelical and reformed Christianity might have it wrong, and that the book of Romans has been misinterpreted over the years to support a concept of cheap grace while devaluing works. If there is a fourth volume to this \\"trilogy\\" (I know that's an oxymoron), that may be a fleshing out of the concept, as one character put it, that salvation is by grace but judgment is by works.  <br /> <br />However you come down on the issue of hell (and if you read this as the narrative that it purports itself to be, you'll notice that not all characters agree, particularly the pastor's wife), it's important not to miss the main point: that the preoccupation with heaven, hell and the afterlife has resulted in an unfortunate de-emphasis of the quest for justice and God's righteousness here on earth. A serious reading of the teaching of Jesus will lead to the inescapable conclusion that his main concern was the Kingdom of God breaking in to the here and now, and not just the sweetby-and-by. <br /> <br />Although I consider this by far the strongest book of the trilogy, it is not perfect. There is a superfluous character named Pat early in the narrative who must have been borrowed from Julia Sweeney's character on Saturday Night Live, except Sweeney's Pat didn't write awful poetry. The issue of homosexuality in the church is not the point of this book and could be dealt with better in some of McLaren's other writings. The narrative itself has an almost unbelievably happy, sappy ending. And most irritating of all is in the chapter where McLaren quotes scholarly works on the doctrine of hell. He actually INVENTS phony sources for some of the quotes. I was scrambling trying to find the original quotation, only to read in the ending commentary that he made these up. That borders on dishonest, and is almost insulting to the serious reader.  <br /> <br />I must add this, also. I am very distressed to notice that the watchdogs of fundamentalism are on constant alert, giving helpful votes to reviews that just give a scripture passage and don't review the book at all, and giving non-helpful votes to thoughtful, serious reviews, all based on the star rating (and actually that pretty much go unread, I suspect.) Remember that the votes are for \\"helpful\\" and \\"not helpful,\\" not \\"I agree\\" or \\"I disagree.\\" Keep that in mind, Einsteins.  <br /> <br />	2005-05-19
US	52542864	R280R2SE2ZFD3C	0972927697	726488040	Rock Stars on God: 20 Artists Speak Their Minds About Faith	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Hey, by the way, what do you think about Jesus?	OK, let's talk about the book title and the author. It's really a stretch to call some of these interviewees \\"Rock Stars.\\" I follow popular music fairly closely, and I've barely heard of some of these interviewees. One of them is that doofus Jesse that won the MTV V-Jay contest about 10 years ago, and he now happens to have a band that you've never heard of. But, hey, I was just chomping at the bit to hear his opinions about God and Jesus. Now, the author is listed as Doug Van Pelt. But he didn't do all the interviews; maybe half of them. He's definitely the best interviewer of the bunch and maybe SHOULD have done them all.  <br /> <br />Another issue is the style. All the hemming and hawing and uh, well, hmmm type stuff is left in. That may make it sound more authentic, but it gets annoying after you're about halfway through the book, because almost everyone does it. It is interesting, however, to be reading the interview with Jethro Tull's Ian Anderson, finding him to be very articulate and well-spoken (at least on the page), until he's asked about Jesus, and then he hems and haws with the best of them. <br /> <br />My favorite part of the book was the interview with Alice Cooper. This comes from me being an Alice Cooper fan in high school, and being made to feel somewhat guilty about it because I was a Christian and Alice was supposedly \\"of Satan.\\" Now Alice, who was a preacher's kid, is a bona-fide Christian who continues to perform in the \\"secular\\" world, so I feel vindicated. Plus, his interview is really, really good, because you can tell that the interviewer enjoyed doing the interview--probably a relief to talk to a real Christian after all those interviews with people who have rather off-center ideas about religion. The other interview that stood out to me was with Henry Rollins, a definite non-believer, who seemed to be a threat to do physical harm to the interviewer if it hadn't been over the phone. Fun, fun, fun. <br /> <br />To conclude, there's some interesting stuff here, but nothing earth-shattering.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	RKK1NP11AKT50	0974694207	836093852	The Christian Culture Survival Guide: The Misadventures of an Outsider on the Inside	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Funny--but only in spots	The evangelical Christian subculture is indeed ripe for lampooning. This book is hit and miss in that regard. To be honest, it could have been funnier. Sometimes the author climbs up on his soapbox and starts sermonizing. My advice is: pick your method. I think the shallowness of much of the Christian subculture could be emphasized so much better by a consistently humorous approach. What should provoke belly-laughs just provokes half-smiles.  <br /> <br />As usual, in a book such as this, the sex chapter is the best one. On the other hand, maybe I say that just because I'm a normal man with all the normal proclivities. If you have a chance to read the book, go ahead, because it's a quick read, but don't knock yourself out. Marginal thumbs up.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	R2622G9VBG6IUP	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	3	3	10	N	N	OK, but I expected more	Believe it or not, this is the first book in my 48 years I've ever read by this lionized author. And while it probably won't be my last Hemingway book, I hope his other works are more fulfilling than this. There are really no characters I cared about in this novel. It's just a bunch of drunken expatriates hanging out in Europe. I sure wish I could afford to do that. Nevertheless, it's sort of a time capsule of this period of time with this particular group of people. There is some heartbreak involved, but nothing much really seems to happen. For a 1920's period piece with much more depth and a much more compelling story, I would recommend \\"The Great Gatsby\\" by F. Scott Fitzgerald. \\"The Sun Also Rises\\" is not a total waste, so I'll give it a half-hearted recommendation just because it's Hemingway and does have a unique, lean style. I just don't think it's great. Chalk it up as a decent first effort.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	R3JWH2FNXP0T9S	0664223958	511186682	Essentials of Christian Theology	Books	5	29	36	N	N	Excellent overview of contemporary theology	As a seminary student who read this book over the summer, not for a class, but just to keep up my theological \\"chops,\\" I wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone wanting to explore different facets of theology from a multitude of viewpoints. The best use of this book is to read the introductions and the essays, and note the authors and issues of interest for future exploration. Because of the diversity of viewpoints, nobody will be in agreement with every theologian in this book. But all of them will make you think. Most of the authors (not all) operate from the traditional trinitarian framework at least as a launching pad, so much of this material at least speaks the same language as the knowledgable reader.  <br /> <br />In my opinion, the most interesting theologians represented were John Cobb, the process theologian, whose writings I might investigate further, and Serene Jones, who does theology that makes sense to the averate person in the pew (actually, there are several who do that). My least favorites were Clark Williamson, a stereotypical liberal on a soapbox, and Sallie McFague, who gets too close to pantheism for my comfort (actually, she would be known as a \\"panentheist\\"). It was encouraging to me to read some very thoughtful evangelicals as well, including Stanley Grenz and Richard Mouw.  <br /> <br />Bottom line: if you want to get past Calvin, Luther, and that ilk and see where the action is in theology TODAY, this is a great place to start.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	R24EZUTN80EOIK	0060628731	587927570	Jesus in America: Personal Savior, Cultural Hero, National Obsession	Books	3	2	8	N	N	For the most part, just plain old American Christian history	This would have been a much better read if the author had focused in on the image of Jesus as presented in literature and on stage and screen in American culture. As it is, the early parts of the book pretty much drag along as we get the history of missions to the Native Americans, with all the ins and outs of Puritanism, and later liberal theology, Unitarianism, and the type of stuff that you can read in your typical church history textbook.  <br /> <br />The parts I found interesting were the discussions of the controversies over 19th-century passion plays and early movie portrayals of the life of Christ. This makes it clear that the brouhaha over Mel Gibson's \\"The Passion of the Christ\\" is nothing new whatsoever. To get to this part of the book, you really have to slog through a lot. Still, I give it a marginal recommendation.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	R19XC47E89JBA0	1593301065	223419359	Kiss My Left Behind	Books	3	31	52	N	N	Parodies and a paradoze	This is the second parody I've read on the \\"Left Behind\\" series--and I've never read the actual Left Behind books, mainly because I disagree with the dispensationalist theology underlying them. The previous parody, \\"Right Behind\\" was written from a Christian perspective, and in some ways was funnier than this book. \\"Kiss My--Left Behind\\" is definitely not written from a Christian perspective, and even contains some language and situations that may be offensive to some. While there is indeed much hypocrisy, shallowness, and plain bad theology in the Christian world that is suitable for ridicule, the basis of Christianity remains true, so the reader should not go overboard in condemning all Christians because of some bad apples which are characterized in books such as these. In addition, if one is going to write a parody on the \\"Left Behind\\" books, it should be focused on that series. Instead, this books tries to include a parody of the Bush administration as well, to the point where some may be confused as to the main point of the actual parody, as a previous reviewer apparently was. In an election year as polarizing as this one, I suppose playing the \\"hate card\\" against the current administration may pick up a few Michael Moore-types that otherwise would avoid a book such as this. <br /> <br />All in all, it was a mildly amusing read, so I give it a very mild recommendation to those who are not easily offended.	2004-08-14
US	52542864	R216DSXSAEU92X	006251704X	184327919	If Grace Is True: Why God Will Save Every Person	Books	2	129	192	N	N	Unconvincing	When I ordered this book, I had hoped it would give me a good, solid Biblical argument for universalism; not only presenting scriptures that seem to support that position, but also giving an explanation of scriptures that explicitly go against the universalist doctrine. This is not that book.<br />Here is how the book deals with seemingly anti-univeralist scriptures: it simply says those scriptures are wrong. So much for wrestling with the text. The authors make no pretense of accepting the Bible as the Word of God, well, that is unless it's those passages that seem to support their position. Instead, &quot;experience&quot; takes precedent over scripture. That's pretty dangerous ground. And if there was any chance in me being won over to the authors' position, it totally went south when later in the book they explicitly denied the divinity of Jesus, the Trinity, and the substitutionary atonement. About the only thing that distinguishes the authors from the most radical liberal is their belief in Jesus' literal resurrection. <br />I would love to be a universalist, but there are too many scriptures, even from the mouth of Jesus, that teach just the opposite. I gave this book a chance to convince me, and it failed miserably.	2003-08-25
US	52542864	R3AW1ZY53I5GEF	0671212095	711118249	How to Read a Book: The Classic Guide to Intelligent Reading (A Touchstone book)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	So you THINK you know how to read a book...	Of course, probably all of us who browse the book section of this website know how to read a book. But do you know how to read to get the most benefit out of a good book, a book that is &quot;above your head&quot;, that stretches your mind, that introduces you to unfamiliar concepts? &quot;How to Read a Book&quot; presents four kinds of reading, but spends most of its pages discussing &quot;analytical&quot; reading. There is a lot to analytical reading, and casual readers probably won't want to make the effort. Those serious about reading, however, will benefit from using the concepts presented here. The book talks about how to read different types of books, both fiction and non-fiction. Then it moves to a brief discussion of &quot;syntopical&quot; reading, which is basically the type of reading necessary for researchers and college students attempting to write a paper. This is a very valuable book, but I had to dock it one star for a little too much subtle advertising for the well-known set of books the authors have assembled.	2003-08-25
US	52542864	RWKBWWHWT9ECH	0687336481	246543860	Preaching	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The title says it all!	This is an excellent basic text on preaching. Although I am not yet a preacher and am just getting ready to enter seminary, I can't imagine a more comprehensive book on the subject. I expected Craddock to beat the drum for his favorite style of sermon, the inductive, but surprisingly this is not even mentioned. For more info on the inductive style, I would refer the reader to &quot;As One Without Authority&quot;. Especially valuable are the sections concerning the pastor's study habits, and how time spent in study is actually time spent with the congregation. Craddock is acknowleged as one of the greatest preachers of his generation, and this is an excellent way to learn from the &quot;master&quot;.	2003-07-28
US	52542864	R1RDWNWQ40N0OY	0687017289	398525782	What to Expect in Seminary: Theological Education as Spiritual Formation	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Good reading for prospective seminary students	&quot;Theological education is not about learning, it is about change.&quot; This statement, not original with the author of this book, is nevertheless the most important sentence in &quot;What to Expect in Seminary.&quot; The goal in moderate-to-liberal mainline seminaries is change, and just how the student will respond makes all the difference. She/he will be challenged with new ways of thinking, which may seem threatening to her/his faith. This book makes an attempt to equip the prospective student with a proper mindset to regard theological education as spiritual formation. Every aspect of seminary life is covered, from classroom to community life to financial and time management. I wish this book had been available when I first attempted seminary 25 years ago, and I'm glad to have it now when I am once again preparing to further my theological education.	2003-07-24
US	52542864	RTIX4WKS7FNFO	0827204833	464638253	Craddock Stories	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Nuggets of gold from a master storyteller	These short little stories, most of them not even a page long, are little sermons in themselves, for those who have ears to hear. Surely not all of them actually happened (unless you think dogs and birds talk back to Fred when he talks to them), but all of them are true. Several stories are printed twice in slightly different forms, making a different point altogether. Then again, if you put the book down for awhile and re-read it several months down the road, you may get a different point out of the same story! Some seem to have no point at all, except to make you think. The author assumes some intelligence on the part of the listener/reader, so he doesn't usually make the point or points obvious. Read, learn, and marvel at this wonderful collection!	2003-07-01
US	52542864	RZHK2CN54CZA7	0827200269	441371991	As One Without Authority: Fourth Edition Revised and with New Sermons	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Laying the foundation for inductive preaching	Fred Craddock, one of the great preachers of the past 50 years, is famous for his inductive style of preaching. Instead of the rigid, deductive, traditional three-point sermon, this book lays the groundwork for a natural, narrative style that involves the congregation, and takes seriously their ability to draw their own conclusions, thereby &quot;finishing&quot; the sermon themselves. <br />I actually read an older edition (the 3rd edition) than what is available now, so I don't know if any of it was revised, but what I read seemed heavily weighted toward the theoretical. (For the practical, that's apparently covered in Craddock's textbook &quot;Preaching&quot;, which I own and will be reading soon.) Inductive preaching is not easy. It takes hard work, and even with that, can anyone do it as well the master (speaking of Fred, not Jesus here!!)? Of course, being a proponent of a certain approach means that it sometimes comes off as the only approach worth taking, which isn't necessarily true. At the church I attend, the pastor preaches a deductive, topical style sermon with points and subdivisions, even handing out an outline with blanks in it for the congregation to fill in, and the people like it that way. I wish, just once, he'd attempt an inductive sermon! Fred Craddock could tell him how.	2003-07-01
US	52542864	RVD7KSZ3AGUVH	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Harry's back, and, boy, is he ticked off!!	Harry Potter is one frustrated young man. He's stuck at the Dursely's for the summer once again, while things are going on elsewhere concerning him and his battle against Voldemort that he knows nothing about. Then, when he has to use magic to save himself and Dudley from a group of Dementors that have invaded his peaceful nieghborhood, he becomes in danger of expulsion from Hogwart's since, of course, using magic outside the school is a no-no. Of course, we know he won't be expelled because then there wouldn't be a book, right? <br />Well, there is a book, of course, and what a book it is! J.K. Rowling has done it again. She even introduces a new villain. If you despised Professor Snape, wait until you get a load of new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher Dolores Umbridge. She makes Snape look like a pussycat (not literally!). She is the primary weapon in a hostile takeover of the school by the Ministry of Magic. Meanwhile, Harry is ridiculed in the \\"Daily Prophet\\" because he claims Voldemort has returned, and his classmates seem divided on just how to regard him anymore. Even worse, he's being tormented in his sleep by dreams that turn out to be more than mere nightmares. <br />This is one big book, so there's a lot going on: Ron joins the Quidditch team, Hagrid returns to the school late with a \\"surprise\\", Hermione takes up knitting caps for house-elves, and Harry finds himself to be awkward when it comes to male-female relationships. Plus, someone close to him dies in the usual climactic showdown, and it may be Harry's fault. There is also a prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort which really comes as no big surprise. All this means is...I'm ready for Book 6 NOW! Don't make me wait three years, J.K., please!!	2003-07-01
US	52542864	R26IYYM477HP6Y	0805426205	729527976	Brothers, We Are Not Professionals: A Plea to Pastors for Radical Ministry	Books	3	17	67	N	N	Piper's Guide to Pastoring	First off, the title is all wrong. Even Piper admits that there may be problems with the title, and there are. For one thing, like it or not, it's a fact that there are many &quot;sisters&quot; in the ministry. Despite the fact that the author doesn't think that's necessarily biblical, should he alienate a good portion of his intended readership, thereby depriving the churches they serve of his wisdom, by not only putting &quot;Brothers&quot; in the title but in each and every chapter heading? I'm no feminist, but it's time to enter the 21st century. Next, here's a question: Are you making your living, or a good portion of it, by serving in the ministry? If you answered yes, guess what? YOU'RE A PROFESSIONAL BY DEFINITION. The author himself may not call himself a professional, but he is. There goes the validity of the title.<br />Once the title's out of the way, there is some good stuff here, valuable for those in pulpit ministry or for those aspiring to that end (I am in the latter category). Of course, every pastor has his or her own priorities, and what is in this book are the priorities of the author, but a good dose of Piper can be a corrective when a minister veers off track. Piper is well known for his doctrine of &quot;Christian Hedonism&quot;, which gets a short explanation in this book. Although not everyone will buy into that doctrine, it is quite biblical, and if one can impart the essence of it to one's congregation, the Christian life will become for them a delight rather than a duty. The centrality of the doctrine of justification by faith is emphasized, as well. Other valuable insights: don't be afraid of difficult Bible passages, learn to read the Bible in its original languages, and be fearless when it comes to combatting the evils of racism and abortion. All in all, a very good book for both brothers AND sisters in the ministry.	2003-06-17
US	52542864	RHHGZ3R15OPNB	0944344860	72277423	Re-Imagine the World	Books	2	21	54	N	N	You may say he's a dreamer...	Right off the top, it's important to know one fact about the author, because his perspective colors everything he writes about, and the colors are red, pink, gray, and black. Yes, Brandon Scott is a charter member of the Jesus Seminar, so that means that \\"Jesus\\" here is actually the reconstructed, reduced Jesus as promoted by the likes of J.D. Crossan, and, furthermore, the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas stands on equal footing with the biblical gospels we all know and love: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and, well, John isn't dealt with at all here, because there are supposedly no parables in John (umm, what about the Vine and the Branches, or the Good Shepherd?)<br />First the positives: the author is an expert on parables, and there are some excellent interpretations here of a few of them. What is often lost to a modern readership when dealing with the parables is the fact that they were often shocking and scandalous to their first-century audience. Therefore, while \\"Good Samaritan\\" may be part of our vernacular, the very idea was just unheard of by his Jewish listeners. The best interpretive job, or the one that resonates with me the most, is concerning the Prodigal Son(s), where the conventions of Jewish family life are ripped apart by what transpires. The father is shown as being degraded by the young son, and degrades himself in the eyes of the community when he welcomes him back. That only scratches the surface, but if there is any reason to get this book, the Prodigal Son story would be it. On other parables, there are issues raised which are often ignored by other interpreters. For example, in the story of the hidden treasure, was Jesus commending the man for his dishonesty in finding the treasure, hiding it, and then buying the field without notifying the owner of the hidden treasure? There are potentially some good discussion starters here for small groups.<br />Of course, the \\"historical Jesus\\" had more in mind than just telling stories. It was his way of re-imagining the world as he thought it should be, and here's where things get a little stickier. Just what was Jesus trying to communicate? Here are the main points, according to the book:<br />1. God is unclean. This rather shocking statement is derived from the parable of the leaven, where a woman \\"hides\\" leaven in three measures of flour (a huge amount) and the leaven works its way through the whole batch. Leaven is seen as corruption, as unclean, in other words, so to Jesus, the kingdom (or \\"empire\\") of God is full of uncleanness, therefore the rather shaky jump to \\"God is unclean\\". My question is, if leaven is considered unclean (and, frankly, it is seen in a negative light throughout Scripture), why was it just prohibited for the seven days of the Passover, and not the whole year round, as was pork and shellfish? That gives this first point a flimsy foundation.<br />2. God is present in absence. This means, basically, a world void a divine intervention. This is based on the Parable of the Empty Jar found in the gnostic Gospel of Thomas. The parable, like much of the Gospel of Thomas, really makes little sense, but what sense the author does make out of it (and, in my opinion, he really has to stretch to do it), is used to \\"prove\\" this point. However, those of us who believe in the healing ministry of Jesus, which implies divine intervention, would see that as totally dismantling that argument. <br />3. Cooperation, not competition. This is illustrated by the Parable of the Good Samaritan. This point I have no problem with, as far as it goes. <br />The author, finally, seems to have his own agenda here: a Christianity without Christ, which is an etymological impossibility. The argument that is made for this is so weak as to be no argument at all. So, I'll sum up this book with a parable of my own. \\"Re-Imagine the World\\" to me is like a breakfast buffet to a vegetarian, who takes what he or she can eat (fruit) and rejects the rest (bacon, sausage, and eggs).	2003-06-17
US	52542864	R33PUBNZ4MGXL9	1565636961	468272818	Reading the Lines: A Fresh Look at the Hebrew Bible	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A breath of fresh air for Old Testament studies	Pamela Reis is not afraid to take the unconventional route when it comes to Biblical interpretation, and, by doing so, she gets closer to the heart of what the text is actually saying than many who are committed to the type of scholarship favored by the majority. Drawing on the example of the classic Japanese movie &quot;Rashomon&quot;, she makes a strong case for single authorship of the Pentateuch, especially concerning the creation stories in Genesis. Rather than falling back on multiple authorship to explain apparent discrepancies and changes in viewpoint, Reis believes these stories are the work of a single, brilliant author who is writing the same story from two totally different points of view (God and man). <br />This book actually reads much like a series of articles from &quot;Bible Review&quot;. Rather than being a comprehensive commentary on the Hebrew Bible, the book focuses on various narratives and shows how conventional wisdom has often misread them. Those who have been considered helpless victims (i.e. Tamar and the daughter of Jephthah) are shown to be not quite as innocent as they have seemed. Scriptures that have been puzzling in the past (the &quot;bridegroom of blood&quot; incident between Moses and Zipporah, for example) are given satisfactory explanations. The book is not perfect, in my estimation, because sometimes there are arguments from silence (i.e., the author's opinion that the witch of Endor served Saul raw meat is a bit of a stretch), and other areas where the arguments are likewise unconvincing or tedious, but those parts are in the minority. This is altogether a fascinating book by a respected, although unconventional scholar.	2003-06-07
US	52542864	R2G3GZCA9LSDFC	039444163X	145381532	The Promise	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A rich offering from a master storyteller	A sequel of sorts to \\"The Chosen\\", although this book stands quite well on its own, \\"The Promise\\" is the story of Reuven, a young rabbinical student, who befriends Michael, a troubled young man who eventually has to be institutionalized under the care of Reuven's friend, Danny. Meanwhile, Reuven is struggling with his teacher, Rav Kalman, a hard-line traditionalist who clashes with Reuven because Reuven has come under the influence of modern critical scholarship due to the influence of Reuven's own father and of Michael's father, Abraham Gordon. The clash of differing schools of Jewish religious thought and the conflict between religious and non-religious Jews is a major theme of this book. Meanwhile, Michael is making no progress in his therapy which leads Danny to propose a radical method of treatment. <br />This book is absolutely riveting, and it's very hard to put down once begun. The late Chaim Potok, in my opinion, is one of the best novelists of the late 20th century. His evocation of modern Jewish life and issues is unsurpassed, and he tells his stories so effortlessly that even a non-Jew like myself cannot help but be captivated at the same time as I'm being educated. In my opinion, this book is better than \\"The Chosen\\" and nearly equal to my favorite Potok novel, \\"My Name is Asher Lev\\". I give \\"The Promise\\" my highest recommendation.	2003-06-07
US	52542864	R10OGEIB582YY1	0785262741	929686826	Hello World! : A Personal Letter to the Body of Christ	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Grudging respect?	As someone who regards the Trinity Broadcasting Network as a mixed blessing at best (and that's being overly charitable), I was ready to gleefully trash this book. A funny thing happened on the way to my one-star review, however: I began to read this book as a story of perseverance and survival, and a certain amount of admiration began to develop toward Paul and Jan Crouch and their efforts to keep their vision of \\"Christian\\" television alive. <br />The book is addressed from Paul Crouch to his two sons, so the reader feels somewhat like a eavesdropper, in a sense. Being the story of TBN, it is mainly focused on recounting the struggles of building a station, expanding it into a worldwide network, and the attacks that came from without and within, from those wanting to wrest control of the network to long and painful battles with the FCC. Doctrinal issues remain undiscussed, probably because TBN is all over the map doctrinally. <br />The writing style of this book is certainly not going to win any awards. It reads like something that was dictated into a tape recorder and then transcribed, so if the reader is familiar with Paul Crouch's overly-dramatic speaking style, it will be easy to \\"hear\\" his voice. An overuse of the word \\"precious\\" is a little off-putting, and the abundance of exclamation points would make Elaine Benis proud. <br />Still, unless one has a heart of stone, it is hard to keep from being inspired. Paul's fighting spirit, which comes off as vindictive and self-serving on TV, is probably just what the doctor ordered, for without that, along with a few of his wife's strategic tantrums, TBN probably would not exist today. And that would be a good thing? Let the reader decide.	2003-06-07
US	52542864	R3K3ZE11MGZTDZ	0971700923	776998356	A Matter of Basic Principles: Bill Gothard & the Christian Life	Books	4	47	60	N	N	The truth sometimes hurts, but it will always set you free	<br />This book points out the fundamental flaws in Bill Gothard's theology, and, in addition, shows that Gothard himself has been unable or unwilling to abide by many of the priciples he himself has taught, especially in the area of conflict resolution. Often, Gothard's organization has shown a lack of integrity, not only concerning sexual scandals involving his brother and even Bill himself, but in the way he has treated people and has failed to abide by legal guidelines (see the chapter about the Arkansas camp debacle for details). Even more chilling, some aspects of Gothard's ministry have been almost cult-like, harming precious lives in its wake. And, apparently, the deeper you go into Gothard's web, the more bizarre and even anti-Biblical his teachings become (example: his belief that all Christian males should be ritually circumcised, which is refuted by the entire book of Galatians!)<br />The value of a book like this is, in pointing out the heretical, it helps sharpen the Christian's theology, especially in the area of grace. The more legalistic among Gothard's followers will not appreciate this book, but it speaks the truth. The question remains for the reader: here's the truth, what are you going to do with it?	2003-05-24
US	52542864	R27FQCXPQLNTGZ	0801091160	35088230	The Complete Worship Leader	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best books on worship leading available today	Worship leading is more than just leading singing, and a worship leader needs to be more than a musician with a decent voice. This book gives vital guidelines on how to be a well-rounded worship leader. The way &quot;The Complete Worship Leader&quot; is ordered prioritizes sound theology and personal discipleship over musical ability. Although the musical tips in the later chapters are helpful, it may be a revelation to some how important it is for a worship leader to be a theologian; not only to have the experience of salvation, but the knowledge of how salvation works. As the reader works his- or herself through the chapters, it becomes obvious that no stone is left unturned. This is truly an indispensible resource.	2003-05-24
US	52542864	R3C3UA5ZLQPJZO	1929685637	417987800	SONAR 2 Power!	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Everything you ever wanted to know about Cakewalk's Sonar!	I review this book as one who does not own this particular piece of software, but as a prospective Sonar user. I wanted to do a little research to see if Sonar was the way I wanted to go, and I found this book extremely informative. It makes what might be a scary program for the novice very approachable and user-friendly. If I do wind up purchasing Sonar, it's unlikely I'll even need to read the manual with this excellent resource available to me. Outstanding!!	2003-05-24
US	52542864	R2FAVG5QY2HGFU	0737305878	481154480	The Bedside Torah : Wisdom, Visions, and Dreams	Books	3	6	85	N	N	Insights into contemporary Jewish theology	As a Christian, the Old Testament, including the Torah, is part of my heritage. I purchased this book to glean more interpretive insights into these pivotal five books from someone who did not interpret them through the lens of Christianity, but from a pure Jewish perspective, in order to broaden my horizons. While gleaning much of worth, the book is so Judeaocentric that I felt more like an eavesdropper than an engaged reader. I found it interesting that Christians haven't cornered the market on guilt-mongering, because there is plenty of that here, directed toward the more religiously lax Jews. Until an enterprising rabbi can write an exposition on the Torah for a general (not just Jewish) readership, this book will have to fit the bill.	2003-05-24
US	52542864	R361DZFJ4PP5LE	140004653X	179088332	A Pilgrim's Digress: My Perilous, Fumbling Quest for the Celestial City	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sometimes it takes someone from the outside looking in...	John D. Spalding, lapsed Protestant, brings us this humorous collection of observations and encounters with offbeat expressions of religious fervor. It's formatted loosely on the structure of &quot;Pilgrim's Progress&quot;, but the parallels are really unnecessary, as this book stands on its own as a collection of observant essays. Whether preaching on a New York City streetcorner or making an arduous pilgrimmage in Europe, Spalding gets personally involved in every quirky journey. I had to give it less than five stars, however, because one section of the book, &quot;A Pilgrim's Dreams&quot;, which starts off with a chapter about God as a football fan that an eighth-grader could have written, is just Spalding trying to be funny on his own, and, to me, it just doesn't work. It's his observations that hit the target. A good read for a rainy afternoon.	2003-05-05
US	52542864	R8KCZZ7TBVF3B	0310253845	885778076	Adventures in Missing the Point: How the Culture Controlled Church Neutered the Gospel	Books	4	66	68	N	N	Book is mistitled, nonetheless a great read	Co-authored books, where either the authors alternate chapters or the authors write a chapter and the other responds, are among the most enlightening books to read, especially in the area of theology. Dialog between two authors who have different viewpoints allows the reader to arrive at his or her own conclusions, sort of like &quot;Point-Counterpoint&quot;. While McLaren and Campolo are sometimes in agreement, they often disagree on some fundamental issues. McLaren is becoming (along with Leonard Sweet) the poster-boy for postmodern Christianity, while Campolo camps out on the left edge of evangelicalism. When McLaren takes his flights of fancy into his new kind of Christianity, Campolo is there to keep the subject grounded in a slightly more traditional interpretation (excluding a few areas, such as homosexuality, in which his views would be rather troubling to the more conservative reader). <br />This book brought to my mind the fact that, although the world and parts of the church seem to be moving towards postmodernism, the transition is far from complete, and, in fact, may take a few hundred years! McLaren's final essay on postmodernism, while probably the most difficult passage in the book, gives a great overview of epochs of history and how different eras and transitions have played out. All in all, I find myself having more of a kinship with Campolo than I do McLaren (McLaren's view of absolute truth being relatively unimportant is totally wrongheaded, in my view, but once again, Campolo brings some sanity to the issue with his reply), but, whichever author strikes one's fancy, this is still a terrific read.	2003-04-26
US	52542864	R1292QXCR04R3S	0787963879	397236890	The Story We Find Ourselves In: Further Adventures of a New Kind of Christian	Books	2	57	107	N	N	Could this be...the Neo-Christ?	Red flags started popping up for me early on in this book, even starting with the poor grammar of the title. Then, opening up the book, it commences with an e-mail from Neo (the postmodern Christian \\"guru\\") to his friend and \\"student\\" Dan, contrived with many unnecessary and irritating typos. Next, with the visit of an Australian woman, dying of cancer, who became acquainted with Neo, we find out what Neo has been doing during his extended time away. By way of explanation, the first book in the series touched briefly on Neo's belief in Darwin's theory of evolution. This book hits you right in the face with it, as Neo's adventures in the birthplace of Darwin's theory, the Galapagos Islands, and at the Charles Darwin Institute, no less, are presented in detail, including a rather graphic scene of two giant tortoises copulating. What fun!<br />Personally, I have always questioned the theory of evolution, not just for religious reasons, but because it has never made a lot of sense to me. A certain amount of evolution does go on (microevolution), but a lot of the details of macroevolution are unconvincing to me. Basically, I'm an old-earth creationist, along the lines of Hugh Ross. Neo doesn't just accept the theory, he loves it. He calls it \\"brilliant\\", \\"important\\", and \\"one of God's greatest creations.\\" Even being aware of the holes in the theory and the challenges to it (getting in a little dig in at \\"Darwin's Black Box\\"), he ignores the problems. Why? Because his system of theology (oops, I mean the \\"Story\\"!) would suffer without it. See, creationism relies on too many miracles, and too many miracles makes for an unreal world, and after all, we live in the real world. <br />As he unfolds the Story before various listeners, I started picking up on something that I'm unsure the author intended. Most of the characters in the book are totally in awe of Neo's teaching. Frankly, it's wearying reading of people's jaw-dropping amazement as Neo unfolds the Story before them.The one person on the island that rejects it is a conservative religious type (a Pharisee?), and, indeed, those who are already of the faith have a harder time than those previously hostile to the gospel. Later, in a discussion of various atonement theories of Jesus, Neo shares a very personal story of betrayal that affected him physically, much like...a crucifixion? Let's see, they were amazed at his teaching, he gets resistance from the religious establishment, he shares a theory of atonement from a personal betrayal...is Neo being set up as a new Jesus? What really bothers me about the whole thing is that this Story is coming from the pen and the mind of the book's author, as is the amazement of the listeners, so even if Neo isn't the Neo-Christ, the author seems to communicating that this is pretty brilliant stuff if he does say so himself.<br />There are all kinds of other issues, like Christianity vs. other religions (all religion, at one point, is lumped together as part of man's God-given creativity), and there are unanswered questions lingering about salvation by faith or by works, but I'm sure we'll hear more about that in the third book of the promised trilogy. That, and, I fear, we may see Neo going through some resurrection and ascension to sit on the right hand of the Post-Modern God.	2003-03-22
US	52542864	RWBXWSTGCRRTK	0879755075	215202254	Don't Call Me Brother	Books	3	12	13	N	N	The blame game?	First published at the height of the televangelism scandals of the late 1980's, \\"Don't Call Me Brother\\" recounts the story of a boy who ran away to join the circus, became a well-known ringmaster, found Jesus after a miraculous healing of an audience member that occurred after Miles asked for silent prayer for the man, and later became a fixture on the PTL Club. Much of the material here will not be shocking to anyone who followed PTL scandal (and who didn't?), but the slander, hatred, and hypocrisy shown by rank-and-file ministers of the Gospel was quite surprising, at least to me. Also surprising is the contention by Miles that homosexuality and adultery run rampant in the Assemblies of God denomination. I can't help but think he's overstating this just a little. But, there's more to the story than what is emphasized.<br />Miles is somewhat mysterious early in the book about his first marriage. It almost seems like his daughter just arrives on the scene with scant explanation. As the story unfolds, it seems that his first wife was responsible for getting him caught up in a conspiracy concerning the Kennedy presidency and Marilyn Monroe. Thus, Miles has to go through a name change from Al Maddox, his previous stage name, to Austin Miles. Toward the end of the book, we learn that the FBI has been harrassing acquaintances of Miles, paying them off (or not paying them off, in the case of the good church folks) to come up with dirt on him to destroy his reputation. Therefore, the FBI seems to be as much or more to blame than the church. The hostility he received from the church could have simply come from fear of the FBI. But then, this is a book attacking the church, not the FBI. Miles will probably never write that book.<br />His second marriage to the love of his life, a Swiss heiress, is threatened by his religious conversion and subsequent departure from his life as a ringmaster to constantly be on the road to speak at churches and religious functions. Once again,it seems the church is to blame for destroying his family. However, if he'd have handled things with a little more wisdom, he could have had Jesus and his family, too. Could it be that he was at least a little bit to blame for the situation?<br />Interestingly, he still cannot bring himself to explain away the healings and miracles that were part of his ministry. If what a previous reviewer said is true, that Austin Miles has returned to the ministry, then it's probably the undeniable power of God that he experienced firsthand that kept him connected. Hopefully, there are some needed reconciliations that have taken place since this book was written. With all that said, this is a book that is hard to put down once you've started, and is a worthwhile read if the reader keeps things in perspective.	2003-03-22
US	52542864	R1BP8FXKJJGM4B	0802860907	298115229	In God's Time: The Bible and the Future	Books	4	60	64	N	N	Will Dr. Hill miss the rapture?	Up until now, nearly all the reading I have done on the End Times has come from one of two camps: the dispensational camp (mostly in the early years of my Christian walk before I wised up) and the reformed (more specifically, reconstructionist) camp. Despite their obvious and radical differences, both camps shared, at least theoretically, the view that the Bible is inerrant. &quot;In God's Time&quot; attempts to take a moderate, scholarly approach to eschatology and make it comprehensible to the layperson. In this regard, the book is a success.<br />Author Craig C. Hill begins his work by establishing for the reader his approach to biblical interpretation, which is, again, a moderate, scholarly approach, using the tools of historical biblical criticism. Hardline inerrantists will probably opt out at this point (thus my tongue-in-cheek review title), but they will be missing a great deal. Rather than trying to make all the eschatalogical pieces from divergent sources fit together, Hill acknowledges the differences while at the same time accentuating the overarching theme of God's ultimate victory. Without succumbing either to the skepticism of the Jesus Seminar or the hysteria of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; devotees, the author gives a balanced, even-handed view of eschatology. This book can become a template for reading any prophetic literature contained in the Bible.<br />Although the audience that could most benefit from a book like this will surely be the least receptive (if they even know about the book in the first place), this is a worthy antidote to much of the end-times silliness (including the &quot;rapture&quot; theory) that is rampant in today's world. Before you buy the next installment of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series, pick this up instead.	2003-02-19
US	52542864	R2Q4EFJF9RPUC0	0064471101	575376127	The Magician's Nephew	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Genesis of Narnia	There has been much debate among Lewis aficiandos about the proper order of books in the Chronicles of Narnia. Should this be the first book, or should one start with \\"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe\\"? Basically, it boils down to this: when you read the Bible for the first time, should you start in Genesis, or in the New Testament? If you would start in Genesis, start here in the Chronicles. Because here you read about the glorious creation of the land of Narnia. <br />Other reviewers have outlined the plot of \\"The Magician's Nephew\\". Needless to say, this is a wonderful story for children and adults alike. Theologically-aware adults will have a field day here, as Aslan the Lion, the Christ figure of the series, here acts as creator. The passages concerning the creation of Narnia are breathtakingly wonderful. The talking animals are portayed in a lighthearted way as they adapt to a new world. The mundane and ordinary are given a vibrancy in this virgin land. Lewis' writing style is thoroughly delightful, and will be a joy for anyone who picks up this book.<br />Others may disagree, but I say start with this book, where Narnia begins, in \\"The Magician's Nephew\\".	2003-02-03
US	52542864	R32UUUMKUU4LHT	014009766X	823772714	The Complete Father Brown (Father Brown Mystery)	Books	4	17	23	N	N	The power of quiet observation	A crime has occurred, often (though not always) a murder. As authorities and observers attempt to solve the mystery, often arriving at a false solution, meekly in the background is a humble, unassuming priest. Using his knowledge of the criminal mind, and often bringing to bear theology (because unsound theology is the basis of moral failure), the unnoticed priest arrives at the solution. Each time one comes to the end of these short mysteries, the reader realizes that there is some small detail that he or she missed, which was not missed by Father Brown. Thus is displayed the power of quiet observation. These short stories make for some good bedtime reading, and even profound theological reflection. The only reason I gave this volume four stars instead of five is that mystery is not personally my favorite genre. Even non-mystery lovers can enjoy these stories much as I have.	2003-02-03
US	52542864	R277YM9USPRJOZ	0802801218	795687871	The Mystery of Christ . . . and Why We Don't Get It	Books	2	28	40	N	N	I tried to "get it", but there were too many roadblocks	Robert Farrar Capon is a very enthusiastic, passionate author with a very definite point of view. It is definitely in his favor that he takes a biblical approach, patiently explaining why the Bible, in his view, teaches that the whole world is in Christ, and therefore the whole world will be saved. This is the \\"mystery of Christ\\" to which he refers. The only ones who will not enter into heaven will be those who pointedly reject the free grace of God, which the author believes will be continually offered even after death.<br />Capon loves Jesus' parables (he has written three books on them, one of which I have read), and draws much of his theology from those parables. Some of the parables presented in this book (the Sheep and the Goats, for example) are interpreted in the light of Capon's universalism, which results in some novel interpretations. Not that that's always a bad thing, indeed, his interpretation of the parable of the Ten Virgins is quite enlightening. Just the fact that the \\"wise\\" virgins are portrayed as being selfish and snippy show the reversal in the Kingdom of the good and the bad, and that nothing is received on merit, all on grace.<br />I don't give this book a relatively low rating because I'm anti-univeralist (I don't happen to be a universalist, although I'm always open to change), but because I have some issues with certain things in the book that just cannot be easily resolved. Capon gives far too much value to astrology, and without much explanation except for the fact that his wife is a professional astrologer. It has always been my conviction that astrology is anti-Christian and anti-intellectual (in simpler terms, both Satanic and a crock), and those who engage in it are either deceived or are spiritual flim-flam artists. Anyone who deems astrology acceptable and then tries to teach me Christian theology suffers a severe credibility problem. Another stumbling-block is that the author doesn't seem to take sin very seriously. That problem is addressed in the book, but not in a very convincing manner. Some things that, from a biblical standpoint, are indeed sin are deemed a non-sin in this book (sprecifically homosexuality). <br />I enjoyed the format of the book, alternating between one-on-one counseling sessions or conversations and group discussion of those situations. One of the discussion participants fits my profile really well. That participant, while he learned a lot, still had reservations at the end. That is my position as well.	2003-01-16
US	52542864	R2NAWMNFRIXSA0	0940368323	525151542	The Qur'an: Text, Translation & Commentary (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Not what I expected	What I wanted was a modern translation of the Qur'an that was easy to read and understand. What I got was a translation full of \\"thees and thous\\" that reads from the back to the front, more than a little disconcerting to a non-Muslim. My intention was to attempt to understand the Muslim religion as it truly is, without any politically-correct \\"spin\\" put on the text. The fact is, to get the true meaning, one must be able to read the text in the original language, Arabic. My quest for understanding will unfortunately wind up in my rather large \\"unfinished book\\" pile.	2003-01-13
US	52542864	R2BG54EOQIMP4K	1576832082	716294815	Lights in the Sky & Little Green Men: A Rational Christian Look at UFOs and Extraterrestrials	Books	4	72	79	N	N	The truth is out there...WAY out there!	Thirty years ago I read a pamphlet written by a fundamentalist author (who inundated the Christian market with such pamphlets back in those days) who asserted that the UFOs that weren't out-and-out hoaxes to be the work of the demonic realm. When I discovered this book, co-written by an evangelical scientist that I highly respect (Hugh Ross), I was interested to see what conclusion would be reached by these highly educated authors. Guess what? Same conclusion! However, painstaking scientific knowledge and logic are brought to bear on this issue, to the point where it's impossible (for me, at least) to doubt that this really is the case.<br />The sections of the book written by Ross were the most compelling for me. He lays out the utter impossibility of travelers from other galaxies making the trek from earth. In fact, he makes a strong case for the view that earth is the only planet in the universe capable of sustaining intelligent life. After he fully convinces the reader that UFOs are not carrying interstellar visitors, he uses the interdimensional model, accepted by many non-religious researchers, to explain the small percentage of UFOs that are actually legitimate. He ties in the fact that most alien abductees have a background in the occult (not necessarily ALL of them, with due respect to a previous reviewer) to conclude that demons are behind the UFO phenomenon. <br />This is a fascinating book, and I'm sure some people will shake their heads, but the authors make what seems to be an air-tight case. So enjoy watching Star Trek, but keep in mind that it's just a fantasy, and those Klingons could not possibly be from another planet.	2002-12-01
US	52542864	R3DYZNGLGT1D2S	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Expanded my understanding of this pivotal figure	I, like many evangelical believers, have always (unknowingly) viewed Abraham through Christian-colored glasses. This book expanded my vision, opening me up to views of Abraham that go beyond the simple biblical text. The depiction of Abraham in the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament), for example, was modified, shaped, and re-interpreted by Christians, Muslims, and even later Jews, often depending upon the situation at the time. The pivotal event of the Abraham story is the near-sacrifice of his favored son to God. Interestingly, to Jews and Christians, the favored son was Isaac, while Muslims hold Ishmael to be the favored son. Christians, of course, regard this event as a foreshadowing of Christ's sacrifice. Interestingly, Jewish rabbis after the time of Jesus interpreted the text to say that Abraham actually did slay Isaac, who later would return from the dead.<br />The different interpretations of the Abraham story lead the author to conclude that there are actually a multitude of \\"Abrahams\\" to fit different historical, political, and social situations. Indeed, Fieler makes a little too much of the fact that there is no archaeological evidence that Abraham ever existed. He doesn't take a hard-line position on Abraham's existence or non-existence, so I guess one could call him an \\"Abraham agnostic\\". His ultimate goal, to find common ground and possible reconciliation among the monotheistic religions on the basis of Abraham would have a very shaky foundation indeed if it was based on a mythical character.<br />This book is much more than a study of Abraham. It documents a personal journey by the author to the crucible where these great religions lead a frighteningly non-peaceful co-existence: the land of Israel. After reading of his encounters with various Jewish, Christian, and Muslim clerics, one sadly sees little hope for a full reconciliation. Of course, that should come as no surprise. But this little book can go a long way in cracking open the doors of understanding.ng.	2002-12-01
US	52542864	RCERKBHFTX8FH	0830815449	820975061	The Jesus Quest: The Third Search for the Jew of Nazareth	Books	5	10	15	N	N	An outstanding overview of contemporary Jesus scholarship	Yes, Ben Witherington is a (relative) conservative, but don't hold that against him. Yes, he has strong opinions, but don't hold that against him, either, because they are well argued. The fact remains that this is the best overview of &quot;Third Quest&quot; Jesus scholarship I have been able to find. Admirers of the Jesus Seminar may not appreciate his critique, but it is very fair and well-thought out. One of the benefits from a book like this, besides giving interested parties a launching pad for further research, is that the different views of Jesus can help one achieve a well-rounded portrait of the Savior. No one scholar gets it right all the time (not even Witherington, with his own view of Jesus as God's wisdom), but the different insights are valuable, because Jesus is bigger than what any one person can comprehend. That should be a cause for humility (something some Jesus scholars have lacked, at least in print). I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in contemporary Jesus scholarship.	2002-11-29
US	52542864	R3V2Y0O34NZZUD	1565123093	399969096	Girl Meets God: On the Path to a Spiritual Life	Books	5	54	56	N	N	An evangelical mold-breaker	Lauren Winner is not your typical evangelical Christian (if there is such a thing as \\"typical\\" anyway). For one thing, the path that brought her to evangelical Christianity passes directly through orthodox Judaism. Therefore, her insights in comparing and contrasting Christianity and Judaism are extremely enlightening. Scholars have debated over the years about whether Christianity is a continuation (or \\"progression\\") of Judaism or whether it is a clean break, a radical departure, if you will. Lauren's experience indicates, in a sense, that it's both: to convert to Christianity she had to \\"divorce\\" herself from Judaism, yet her Jewish background vigorously informs her Christianity. For this reason, she chose to join the Episcopal church, since it's liturgy seemed to be more on the same wavelength as Jewish ritual. I found this aspect of the book to be the most educational, and hopefully Lauren will someday publish a scholarly evaluation of the Jewish/Christian dichotomy.<br />The fact that she is a scholar, operating in the heady world of esoteric academia, and swam against the skeptical tide that seems to challenge faith at every turn, is quite admirable, almost remarkable in this day and age. Yet instrumental in her conversion was Jan Karon's unpretentious Mitford series, which helps bring Lauren's testimony within reach of the most humble seeker. (Just because I personally found the Mitford books unremittingly dull doesn't mean I don't appreciate the way the Spirit uses them to bring people to faith). <br />Another way Lauren breaks the mold is the almost shocking openness with which she puts her life on display. That's not a unique thing among Christian authors (such as Anne Lamott), but it's rare if not unique among self-identified evangelicals. The personal quirks that may be off-putting to some (like her tattoos or her unshaven legs!) are endearing to others, and she's not afraid to share failures reluctantly whispered in a confessional with her readership, including the taboo area of sex. But part of the reward of reading a brutally honest spiritual autobiography is the feeling that you really get to know the author in a personal manner, even having never met her, which is why I continually refer to her in this review by her first name. I almost feel like a Lauren's personal friend and confidant, although we will probably never meet face-to-face.<br />Lauren indeed breaks the mold, and there is enough here to offend almost everybody: Jew, Christian, conservative and liberal alike. But it is those who break the mold (C.S. Lewis, Simone Weil, and Thomas Merton, for just three examples) who  have the most impact that lasts even beyond their lifetimes. This book is, hopefully, only the beginning volume in Lauren's spiritual autobiography. The world will hear a lot more from Lauren Winner in the future.	2002-10-31
US	52542864	R6LOTPICLK3F6	1565636791	373617275	Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music (Recent Releases)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Amazingly comprehensive...and theologically biased	I've got to hand it to Mark Allan Powell. This book is an incredible achievement. If he missed even the most obscure bands and artists in the realm of contemporary Christian music, I sure wouldn't know about it. Mainstream artists who have alluded, however obliquely, to Christianity are also, thankfully, included. Some may feel like this volume is even TOO inclusive (I mean, Rick James? Come on!) This is a monumental work that every music fan should own, Christian or not, because it deals with a very important stratus of contemporary music. <br />The breadth of differing approaches of musicians to their art runs the gamut from those who use music as a purely evangelistic tool to those who do music for it's own sake. The author seems to have a problem with bands who have an &quot;altar-call&quot; mentality, and more than once refers to individual salvation experiences as &quot;individualistic&quot;, as if it were some kind of disease. The fine distinction between &quot;evangelical&quot; and &quot;fundamentalist&quot; seems to be lost on the author as well, as it is on many who occupy the more mainline religious traditions. Just because I'd much rather listen to U2 than to Petra doesn't mean I don't appreciate what Petra is trying to do with their music and their ministry. It is the nature of a reviewer to be opinionated, but some readers of a more conservative bent might get a little irritated at how the author continually wears his theological biases on his sleeve. <br />The bottom line is this: this is a must-own for Christian music fans, as one could lose him/herself in this massive book for days on end. On it's comprehensiveness alone it deserves 5+ stars, but I have to dock it a star because much of the tone toward artists that don't happen to share the author's theological orientation is needlessly perjorative.	2002-10-17
US	52542864	R1RVH4FCPQPX2Y	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	5	3	4	N	N	THE essential volume for the SNL generation	If you want to know the real story, the behind-the-scenes scoop on the entertainment phenomenon known as Saturday Night Live as told by the people who were there, this is the book to own. More of an oral history than a comprehensive document, there are insights to be gained and new facts to be gleaned from this book. I almost rate this as a \\"guilty pleasure\\" because some of the book is, naturally, gossipy, but it is a pleasure not to be missed by SNL fans. It's interesting to see the changes in the show over the years, from the drug-fueled early days of edgy, almost anarchic humor through the times when the show almost got the axe after severe dips in quality and popularity, to it's almost iconic status today. There's a lot more to this book than the overly-publicized \\"everyone hates Chevy\\" aspect. It's a big book, but hard to put down. Definitely worth a read by SNL fans, especially those who have been fans from the beginning.	2002-10-17
US	52542864	R281QVKITPBXNS	0525946764	907715751	Jump the Shark: When Good Things Go Bad	Books	3	25	29	N	N	&quot;Jump the Shark&quot; jumped the shark when it became a book	The &quot;Jump the Shark&quot; website is one of the most entertaining websites out there, due to its lively discussion forums about TV shows that, at some point, started declining in quality never to return to its former glory. The episode or event in that TV show's history when that happened is when it &quot;jumped the shark&quot;. Of course, there are differing opinions on when this may have happened, if it ever did in the case of some shows. The problem with putting this in book form is it becomes one man's opinion that is codified as THE expert opinion on when shows (and baseball teams, politicians, celebrities, and musicians) jumped the shark. <br />Some opinions, of course, are hard to argue with. There is little argument that, for example, the Andy Griffith Show jumped the shark when Barney left Mayberry, or that the Boston Red Sox jumped the shark when they traded Babe Ruth to the Yankees. Some, however, defy logic, because some of the greatest successes took place after the supposed &quot;shark jump&quot;. For example, it states the Mary Tyler Moore show jumped when Mary changed apartments. In my opinion, that's totally wrong. Some of the best shows of the series (including the  classic &quot;Chuckles Bites the Dust&quot;, which many critics rate as the top TV show episode of all time) happened after Mary moved into her new place. Richard Nixon was said to have jumped the shark with his early-1950's &quot;Checkers&quot; speech. How can someone jump the shark and then later get elected president twice? Nixon obviously jumped the shark at Watergate, but then, the author had to save that one for the whole Republican party. <br />This book is great as a discussion (and argument) starter, but I think the website is better because there differing opinions are offered. I disagreed with too much in this book to give it more than three stars, and I'd have to say that, when this was made into a book, &quot;Jump the Shark&quot; jumped the shark.	2002-10-17
US	52542864	R1K7F6DUEH41UP	0767908090	823522843	Roadfood	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Latest edition falls short of the previous editions	I've read the Sterns' Roadfood/Goodfood series for years, not quite from the beginning, but almost. I have always regarded this series as more than a guide to great regional restaurants, but as an educational tool to the many differing regional cuisines in the United States. This latest volume in the series is as entertaining and mouthwatering as the previous editions, but seems to be lacking in some areas. Half the reviews are about places previously unreviewed and half are updates on old familiar favorites. It's understandable that many eating places listed in earlier versions of the book have possibly declined in quality or even closed, but certain genres of regional specialties have disappeared completely. Where are the best hot wings in Buffalo, the best deep-dish pizza in Chicago, or the best seafood places in Washington State? You wouldn't know if you just had this current version of &quot;Roadfood&quot;. In my own state of Oklahoma, all the barbecue joints have disappeared, or at least that what you'd think by this book. Apparently all we like around here is hamburgers. Oh well, I'm sure they'll have a new printing in about five or ten years, so maybe some of these omissions will be corrected.	2002-07-29
US	52542864	R10L1AR9GDF4EL	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Imaginitive and well-written, but what's the message here?	It's too bad for Alice Sebold that Oprah is not rating books anymore, because \\"The Lovely Bones\\" would certainly be touted in her now-defunct book club. The plot really doesn't need to be rehashed in any great length here: a fourteen-year-old girl is murdered, and she tracks the lives of her family, her killer, and selected schoolmates from her own heaven. There are many heartwarming, tragic, and suspensful moments in the lives of these people. There are also some dull moments where the story drags. However, the premise of the story is very imaginitive and creative, and that goes a long way in making this story gripping and hard to put down.<br />There seem to be some underlying messages here, however, that are problematic for me coming from a Christian worldview. For one thing, Susie's heaven seems to be a rather dull place, more like the Talking Heads song \\"Heaven\\" where \\"nothing ever happens\\" than heaven in any sort of Biblical or religious sense, which probably explains Susie's excessive preoccupation with the goings-on on earth. Is this heaven merely a fictional construct to move the story along, or is the author making a theological statement when she presents a heaven totally devoid of any supreme being? God is referred to only once and in a very oblique sense in describing thunder. Also, about 25 pages from the end, something very unexpected happens, and without giving too much away, seems to present a message of sex-as-salvation which I'm sure Hollywood will eat up when it comes time to buy the rights to this story but is really a false message. In addition, when justice is finally done, it happens in a rather unconvincing manner, and brings up other disturbing questions which I cannot go into without giving away too much. In conclusion, while I would give this book as a story four and a half stars, some of the underlying messages drag it down to three stars, still a good rating but far short of a classic.	2002-07-26
US	52542864	R2AN9TNNUZKDJJ	0060013249	49679273	Celtic Daily Prayer: Prayers and Readings From the Northumbria Community	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A real treasure of spirituality	For a blending of the ancient and the modern, this book of prayers and daily devotionals fits the bill better than anything else available today. Besides the liturgies of morning, midday, and evening prayer, with accompanying scripture readings, there are prayers for special situations and events, not to mention two entire years of daily devotional readings. The interest in Celtic Christianity that has taken root in recent years may seem almost faddish, yet there is a depth of spirituality here that is refreshing and rewarding. This is one of the best tools available to strengthen one's inner life with God.	2002-07-18
US	52542864	R3QZZFC0W3HGS8	031021436X	858732473	Disappointment With God: Three Questions No One Asks Aloud	Books	5	13	13	N	N	No disappointment here	I am one of Philip Yancey's biggest fans, and this book, one of his earlier efforts, did not disappoint me in the least. Yancey is an evangelical Christian who is not afraid to ask the tough, honest questions that everyone has but many people refuse to face. The framework for this book is a continuing dialog Yancey had with a former believer who wrote a brilliant book on the biblical book of Job, but wound up renouncing his faith after some devasting events in his life. This led Yancey to an intense period of Bible study to attempt to find honest answers to what seems to be the silence and even unfairness of God.<br />In this book, Yancey focuses much of his attention on the book of Job, where God's fairness was questioned. Yancey does a marvelous job of discerning the way God works in our world and our lives today, compared with and contrasted to His workings in the ancient world where Job resided. Did God's more direct intervention in Old Testament times result in more faith and obedience on the part of His people? Or are we really better off today, where God's work seems more indirect or, sometimes, even non-existant? Yancey brings up many excellent points here, making this book almost required reading for frustrated believers, or even non-believers.	2002-07-18
US	52542864	R4H7O3R2BF2NU	0802800149	405724554	Be Our Freedom, Lord: Responsive Prayers and Readings for Contemporary Worship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best book of its kind that I've seen	First of all, someone needs to explain to me why this book is out of print. Absolutely inexcusable! There are litanies and responsive prayers included that can be used by churches of any tradition, and there seems to be more usable material here than in other books of its kind. If I could have only one book of readings for a service, this would be it. Not that it's perfect, or that I would use everything in here, but it meets my needs better than anything I've seen. Eerdman's, it's time to get this back in print!	2002-07-06
US	52542864	R2YEOS97JK1NJ7	1579991246	806847416	African American Heritage Hymnal: 575 Hymns, Spirituals, and Gospel Songs	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Oh, yes!	This collection of hymns, spirituals, and gospel songs is a total delight. As soon as I opened this book and started playing this music on my keyboard, I could hear heavenly gospel choirs singing in my head. Of course, there are many hymns and songs included here that most people would know, but what makes this hymnbook a treasure are the songs specific to the African-American tradition, with harmonies that unmistakeably suggest a black gospel choir. As a bonus, there is a good quantity of responsive readings in the front of the book suitable for use in the worship service. This book will get you into the Spirit, whether you are black, white, or anything in between. The &quot;African-American Heritage Hymnal&quot; zoomed right to the top of my hymnal collection list the moment it arrived. Get it, you won't be sorry!	2002-07-06
US	52542864	R1RN9NNCUO2K12	0801063949	296581650	1001 Surprising Things You Should Know about Christianity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Christian history in bite-sized morsels	The book title is a bit inaccurate, because not all 1001 bits of information in this book are necessarily \\"surprising\\". In fact, the more one knows about the history of Christianity the fewer things in here would actually be considered of a surprising nature. However, there is lots of valuable information here, presented in a popular style that is easily digestible. The negative aspects of the church throughout the years are certainly not glossed over, and one gets the feeling that for at least half of the years since Christ true Christianity has been in the dumper, as a church rife with corruption, materialism, debauchery, and a lack of Christian charity seems to have been the rule rather than the exception. Let the church of today take note!<br />A couple of surprising things, in the form of inaccuracies, are noted here. For example, one item states that the term \\"Christian\\" was first used by those involved in the First Crusade of 1095. Anyone who knows their Bible would know this is not the case. Acts 11:26 states \\"...now it was in Antioch that the disciples were first called Christians.\\" That was many years before 1095. Also, we are informed that there is a seminary named after Francis Asbury on the \\"east coast\\". I think the students at this seminary which is in Wilmore, KY, would find that it's an awfully long walk to the beach. Am I being picky by pointing out these things? Maybe, but it makes one wonder what other inaccuracies may be contained in this book, making it of questionable trustworthiness. Assuming that most of the book is accurate, however, I do recommend it to anyone who wants to brush up on their Christian trivia, and get a painless education in the bargain.	2002-07-06
US	52542864	RTK6VUOCS0YST	1576832961	644271642	Renovation of the Heart: Putting On the Character of Christ (Designed for Influence)	Books	4	59	65	N	N	Green vegetables for the Christian soul	Dallas Willard's previous book, \\"The Divine Conspiracy\\" wowed me with the brilliance of its insight and analysis. \\"Renovation of the Heart\\" lacks that \\"wow\\" factor. It is a book that, like green vegetables, is good for you and even necessary for healthy growth, but what's good for you is not always what is the most appetizing. <br />Willard is correct when he asserts that spiritual growth does not just happen, that one has to work at it. Using the VIM model (vision, intention, and means), he presents the tools for meaningful spiritual formation. Willard does a painstaking analysis of the interrelationship between the six human dimensions: thought, feeling, will, body, social context, and soul. The analysis is so thorough that the casual reader may be put off by such attention to detail. <br />It is understandable that some readers may find this book rather dull. However, if you take your time to grasp all the concepts presented here, it will pay off. It may take a certain amount of spiritual discipline to even finish this book, just like it takes discipline to eat all your broccoli, but it is ultimately rewarding. Don't despise what's good for you.	2002-06-14
US	52542864	R3HE1YEQHK225K	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A good book in need of a good editor	A controverial ultra-conservative African-American judge dies under mysterious circumstances, leaving it to his son, an Ivy League law professor, to investigate what \\"arrangements\\" the judge had made and why so many people have a vested interest in finding out just what those \\"arrangements\\" are. As his son, Talcott (AKA \\"Misha\\") gets deeper into this mystery, there are many surprises for him (and the reader) along the way, as he painfully discovers what sort of man his father really was, while at the same time finding himself in constant danger (despite assurances emanating from his corrupt \\"Uncle Jack\\" that no harm will come to him or his family). Couple this with his disintegraing marriage to a woman who is a candidate for a federal judgeship, and you have a novel that is more than just a gripping mystery. This book presents a world that few know, the upper-crust of African-American society (which the author constantly refers to as the \\"darker nation\\"), while delving into issues of family, petty faculty rivalries, and even a strong dose of Christian spirituality. I found myself immersed in this novel, hardly able to wait to see what comes next.<br />That being said, this sprawling book could have used some judicious editing. There were stretches in the narrative that were rather dull, and some were dull and annoying at the same time, especially the times the narrator spent with his toddler son whose vocabulary didn't extend much past \\"Dare you, daddy.\\" The toddler is one character that could have been dropped from the story in order to move it along at a little quicker clip. In fact, there is a huge cast of characters here of which it is certain that 2/3 of them will be dropped when this story gets turned into a movie. The author could have easily trimmed the list of characters and probably cut the book by about 200 pages without much loss at all. As a Christian, I appreciate the Christian underpinnings of this book, but, as much as I hate to say it, the Rev. Morris Young, who gives voice to many solid Christian principles, is another character who could have been eliminated to move the story along. Also, the whole chess motif which forms the framework of the narrative is esoteric enough that a very small minority would even be able to understand the chess problems presented here.<br />All this is not to say that this is not a good book, because it is, but its excessive length and dull spots keep it from being a great book. Still, this has to be one of the essential reads for the summer of 2002.	2002-06-14
US	52542864	R2VGS1K7SAKVVF	0684842173	897502891	From Hardtack to Home Fries: An Uncommon History of American Cooks and Meals	Books	3	12	14	N	N	A literary &quot;buffet&quot; of food history essays	This book consists of essays concerning different aspects of the history of food and cooking in the United States, and, much like a buffet, some &quot;dishes&quot; are more appetizing than others. Make no mistake, this is well-written from beginning to end, but the subject matter of some chapters held little interest for me personally, while I found others quite fascinating. As a rule (with exceptions), the better the food, the more interesting the essay, so I found the first two chapters rather tedious. Finally, when I got to the chapter about the health food fads that originated from Battle Creek did I find the writing riveting and quite interesting. Other favorites include the chapter about the FDR White House food, which had a notoriously bad reputation, the essay on the Harvey girls, and the chapter about African-American cooks. In summary, this book is a mixed bag where the good outweighs the bland. What more could you ask for in a buffet?	2002-06-14
US	52542864	R1LP1CGZBVWHGZ	0802843131	150324521	Of Fiction and Faith: Twelve American Writers Talk About Their Vision	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Whets my appetite for more good reading	The twelve authors interviewed for this book seem to have, with few exceptions, certain things in common:<br />1. None of them, with the exception of Garrison Keillor and, possibly, Water Wangerin are huge sellers. In fact, I had never heard of eight of the twelve writers in the book.<br />2. Although having some connection to the Christian faith, none of them are what you would call &quot;conservative&quot;, &quot;evangelical&quot; or &quot;fundamentalist&quot;.<br />3. None of the authors want to be pigeonholed as a &quot;Christian author,&quot; or be exiled to the &quot;Christian Bookstore&quot; ghetto. Yet they run into the problem of being too religious for the secularists, and too secular for the religious.<br />Probably the best thing about this book is that it has turned my on to some authors that were previously unfamiliar to me. The downside of that is that the books mentioned that sound most appealing to me are out of print. This book never fails to be interesting, and althought there are recurring themes (the influence of Flannery O'Connor, etc.), there are some suprises along the way, such as seemingly mild-mannered Garrison Keillor's vitriolic attack on the GOP. One drawback is that some of these interviews are more than a decade old. Nevertheless, this book is a worthwhile purchase.	2002-06-14
US	52542864	R2470UP2PSKQ2W	089820139X	443574879	Top Pop Singles 1955-1999: Ninth Edition	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A gold mine for the pop music enthusiast	Occasionally there comes a book that, before you even have a chance to look at it, you know is going to be a 5-star book. This book falls into that category, and it did not disappoint. For someone who was raised on Top 40 radio, this reference will provide hours of nostalgic pleasure. Several years ago I purchased a Whitburn book that listed every artist and single that hit the Top 40. This is even better, tracking every single that made the Billboard Hot 100. After all, there are songs that you will remember that you are sure made the Top 40, but didn't. There remain a few AM radio hits (at least as played by the dearly departed KAKC in Tulsa) that surprisingly didn't even make the Hot 100 (&quot;Can't Find My Way Home&quot; by Blind Faith is a glaring example). Some of these, I'm sure, &quot;bubbled under&quot; the Top 100, and for the real fanatic, Whitburn put out a book of those, too, although I'm not sure if it is still in print. <br />One observation that is somewhat interesting: as the eighties and nineties wore on, the Hot 100 charts became increasingly irrelevant. One reason is, who buys singles anymore? Who can even FIND singles in your local Wal-Mart or Best Buy anymore? Plus, with the rise of MTV, there are video hits that never hit the singles charts (two examples: &quot;Leave Me Alone&quot; by Michael Jackson and &quot;Heart-shaped Box&quot; by Nirvana). Another factor is the (unfortunate) arrival of narrow-format radio. The relative irrelevancy of the current singles chart may render this book irrelevant to the younger generation unless they have a particular interest in their parents' music, but to a baby-boomer like myself, this book is a total delight. Most of all, it is a labor of love by Joel Whitburn, and that shines through on every page.	2002-05-19
US	52542864	R2BZQ9WOBFSR34	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	3	N	N	An unparalleled masterpiece	What can be said that hasn't already been said about Lord of the Rings? This is the best and highest achievement of all literature in the history of the English language, and I don't just mean fantasy literature. Tolkien was a quiet, unassuming genius who created a world of wonder, of magic, of mirth and dread, a world of ancient legend, of nearly forgotten antiquity, a world populated by a myriad of creatures and races, some obscure and some of great renown. That an unassuming, overlooked species known as hobbits would spawn one in whom the destiny of Middle-earth would depend is an amazing story for the ages. With wizards, elves, dwarves, orcs, and an unnumbered amount of other creatures populating this world, Tolkien provides the template for all fantasy storytelling (not to mention gaming) to follow. There is too much here to describe in such a short space, so I'll just say if you have not read this trilogy you are a poorer person for it. Get it, read it, don't just watch the movie series, read it! Now! What else can I say?	2002-05-17
US	52542864	R2UIYVN1XV0SR8	0310239648	137492711	More Ready than You Realize: The Power of Everyday Conversations	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A new kind of evangelism	Brian McLaren, author of &quot;A New Kind of Christian&quot;, here presents a new kind of evangelism (a word he hopes falls into disuse) for post-modern society. Rather than the old &quot;Four Spiritual Laws&quot; or mass-evangelistic models, McLaren offers an alternative that may indeed become the wave of the future. The major portion of this book is based on e-mail conversations over a two-year period between Rev. McLaren and a musician he hires for a particular service at his church. As he befriends this person, who has many questions about the Christian faith, he is respectful of her misgivings, does not pressure her when she goes through periods of seemingly moving away from faith rather than toward faith, and indeed he seems to learn as much from her as she learns from him (thereby the &quot;dance&quot; metaphor). This is not to be confused with &quot;friendship evangelism&quot;, it is simply a friendship in the context of community where the light of Christ is allowed to shine through rather than being used to beat people into submission. This type of &quot;evangelism&quot; can be done by people who shy away from &quot;evangelism&quot; per se, and may be more effective in the long run than the traditional styles of bearing witness to the gospel. I guess that remains to be seen, but this is an eye-opening book that gives much food for thought.	2002-05-17
US	52542864	R1PP1FD2P2FF3B	0425166945	167038257	Portofino	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Bravo for "Portofino"!	Frank Schaeffer proves his skill as a storyteller in the coming-of-age novel \\"Portofino.\\" This often hilarious tale revolves around the son of fundamentalist missionaries to Switzerland on annual family vacation in Italy. There is a lot of humor here, with an undercurrent of fear (father's \\"moods\\") and even, in one instance, cruelty. The boy, Calvin, tries to be normal in the face of his family's evangelical quirkiness, proving that \\"correct doctrine\\" does not preclude dysfunctionality. Some conservative Christians (a group of which I consider myself a part) may be offended, but only if they take themselves too seriously. The sexual euphemisms, the excessive \\"Thees and Thous\\" used in prayer (especially by the long-winded, super-spiritual mother), the splitting and resplitting of a denomination due to doctrinal hair-splitting (do they follow Hodge or Warfield?), and especially the infamous \\"Gospel Walnut\\" I found very humorous, probably from recognition as much as anything else.<br />With Schaeffer, it is fairly well known that he is the son of conservative Christian icons Francis and Edith Schaeffer, and that he has turned his back on his strict Calvinist upbringing and embraced Eastern Orthodoxy. Are Calvin's parents in the book Francis and Edith themselves, or just people based on them? I really don't know, but I'll give Francis and Edith the benefit of the doubt, and just say that Frank Schaeffer has given the world a terrific novel with excellent characterizations. Highly recommended.	2002-05-05
US	52542864	R2WQQAP76B26VC	078795599X	52865741	A New Kind of Christian: A Tale of Two Friends on a Spiritual Journey	Books	3	180	239	N	N	Another attempted &quot;reformation&quot; of Christianity	Many diverse voices in the church today are calling for a radical change in Christianity. Of course, how much can you change and still call it Christianity? Ultra-liberal ex-bishop John Shelby Spong, for example, goes to the extreme left edge of liberalism and throws out any traditional belief in God and the historical, biblically-based creeds to come up with something that cannot in good conscience be counted in the Christian camp. Brian McLaren's new vision of Christianity is still recognizable as Christianity, but has he sacrificed the essence of the Gospel on the altar of post-modernism?<br />McLaren, using the device of a dialogue between a burnt-out pastor and a high school science teacher (who is a former pastor), makes the point that both liberal and conservative theology is based on modernism, and that for a post-modern society neither Biblical literalism or Bultmannian demytholization is adequate for this generation. The Bible must be read as a pre-modern document, as the story of people on a faith-journey towards (or away from) God and must not be codified to a rigid theology, according to the thinking presented in this book. Although McLaren desires to transcend the labels of &quot;conservative&quot; and &quot;liberal&quot;, many conservatives would see this as a liberal theology. There is much space given to struggling with the question of how other religions fit into the equation, and how much of our modern Christianity is culturally based. <br />Although I found much food for thought here, I could not wholly embrace all the concepts presented in this book. Other writers on post-modern Christianity concentrate more on methodology of presenting the gospel to a post-modern society than actually coming up with what might be considered a &quot;different gospel&quot;. There are undoubtedly some excellent ideas presented (I particularly liked the ideas concerning the overhauling of seminary education), but there are some I'm not comfortable with (isn't teaching evolution to a youth group more of a modernist idea than post-modern?). I would like to see some of these ideas more fully developed, but then, that might start taking it in the direction of a systematic theology, which is anathema to the post-modern mindset! Three stars for being a well-written, thought-provoking book.	2002-05-01
US	52542864	R1S7BDJ15ZWNN8	0764222023	703940036	12 Steps for the Recovering Pharisee (like me)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	There's a little (or a lot of )Pharisee in all of us	The single greatest pleasure of a Pharisee is to judge other people. A Pharisee devises rules that make himself look better than others, while others are unaware of what the rules are, and wouldn't care if they did know. The Pharisee makes righteousness attainable by good works that only a select few are able to accomplish. Pharisees forget that Jesus blew that whole concept out of the water by making observation of the Law totally unattainable, thereby opening the door for all by grace, a concept the Pharisee thinks is unfair. <br />If you struggle with Pharasaism, which puts you among the great Christian majority, don't miss this book. It's like looking into a mirror (at least it was for me), and it uses a somewhat tongue-in-cheek 12-step model for recovery from this spiritually deadly disease. When we realize that we truly are sinners, both pre- and post-conversion, and that the only way we can make it is by the grace and mercy of God, we will be quicker to show grace and mercy to others, and we will come a lot closer to rid ourselves of the judgementalism that keeps us looking down on those we deem spiritually inferior to ourselves. Another great book, like several I have read lately, that is hard to find at your local Christian bookstore unless you are looking for it. In fact, with the lack of the hype that is enjoyed by such bland offerings as the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series, you might not know this book even exists. Well, if you are reading this review, now you do. So order a copy today!	2002-04-26
US	52542864	RSA605N5WXI0K	0785266429	709586989	End Times Fiction: A Biblical Consideration Of The Left Behind Theology	Books	5	45	55	N	N	Required reading for &quot;Left Behind&quot; fans and non-fans alike	There is little doubt that the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins is a phenomenon unparalleled in the history of Christian publishing (with the possible exception of &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot;). The problem is, even though the series is presented as fiction, it is a thinly-veiled work of misguided theology. Of course, the theology presented by these books is the very popular modern theology of dispensation premillenialism, complete with the requisite doctrine of the pre-trib rapture. In &quot;End Times Fiction&quot;, Gary DeMar takes each pet doctrine of this eschatalogical viewpoint and examines them one-by-one in light of the clear teaching of the Bible. When compared with what the Bible actually teaches, the theology that undergirds the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series is found seriously flawed.<br />So many today make the assumption that there will be a &quot;rapture&quot; before a seven-year tribulation period, that Russia will attack Israel, that there will be a rebuilt temple in Jerusalem, and that there will be one person called the Antichrist that will lead a one-world government. They believe that the seven churches in the first chapters of Revelation correspond to different periods in the church age rather than actual churches that were in existence at the time the book of Revelation was written. It would be rather eye-opening to these people to see that these interpretations have very little support in the actual text of the Bible. DeMar does a masterful job showing that most of what Revelation and what is known as the &quot;Olivet Discourse&quot; of Jesus has already taken place with the fall of Jerusalem in 70 A.D. Unlike some texts dealing with this view of eschatology (&quot;The Last Days According to Jesus&quot; by R.C. Sproul comes to mind), this book is very easy to follow and to understand. It is a &quot;must read&quot; in today's climate of pop-religion.	2002-04-14
US	52542864	R1NTMKJ1YMSW65	031023882X	964146864	Who Is My Enemy?	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The welcome of the Kingdom	Every evangelical church leader in America should have a copy of this book. Rich Nathan believes that, just as Jesus welcomed prostitutes, tax-collectors and other &quot;sinners&quot; into the Kingdom and did not view them as his enemies, so we should do the same to those whose views and lifestyles we find in opposition to ours: post-modernists, feminists, homosexuals, new-agers, and liberals. Not only that, but people in these groups have much to teach the church if only we would listen. Often in a book such as this, there is concern that the author is soft on sin. Nothing could be further from the truth in this case. Nathan is uncompromising with the issue of sin, but is also uncompromising on the issue of God's grace. By modeling love and acceptance at the church he pastors in Columbus, Ohio, Nathan has seen many transformed lives of people who were formerly far away from Christ. In this book, Nathan examines many &quot;hot-button&quot; issues among Christians, and discusses them in a very even-handed manner. Very educational, and very necessary reading.	2002-04-14
US	52542864	RV3UNBMCT3NF2	0736902260	8115653	Living the Questions: Making Sense of the Mess and Mystery of Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Christian recording artist's take on life	Singer/songwriter Carolyn Arends shows her versatility by authoring this book, and a fine first effort it is. Similar ground has been covered before by others (Philip Yancey, John Fischer, etc.) but Carolyn writes from the perspective of her own life experiences. Questions and doubts are part of any honest Christian's life, and Arends shares honestly about the uncertainties and fears in her own life, as an artist, wife, and mother. She shows much promise as an author, and it will be interesting to see her growth in this area over the years (although I'm afraid I'll have to pass on her next book, since it is geared toward pregnant women!!)	2002-04-02
US	52542864	R77EVBQH4778Y	0310920310	767318964	Maranatha! The NIV Worship Bible	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Falls just short of perfection	I doubt if there is a better Bible out there for purely devotional reading than this one. I originally purchased it thinking I would use it as a resource in my worship leading at church, but I found that it is even better used for my own personal quiet times. My tendency is often to read the Bible in a theological frame of mind. This edition of the Bible is invaluable for bringing me closer to the Author of all scripture, the Creator of the universe. The prayers in the margins can be used in personal devotional times, but are also appropriate for public worship as well. There are also quotes from great Christian writers throughout the ages, and excerpts from hymns and praise songs to complete the worship experience. This Bible is almost perfect.<br />Almost. I had to dock it one star because I believe the editors dropped the ball when it came to the book of Psalms. Psalms has no quotations or accompanying prayers, just some lined margins for the reader to jot down his or her own prayers. The editors had a perfectly logical rationale for this, after all, the Psalms are basically prayers and hymns anyway, so how could anyone add to them? I still think some accompanying quotes or some other input would have been helpful here. After all, some of the Psalms (the &quot;imprecatory&quot; Psalms) may be problematic for some Christians today, because of the vengeance and even hatred toward enemies interspersed among the high praises and hallelujahs. The honest wrestling with God expressed in many of the Psalms could be helped by some illumination, but maybe I'm getting back to my &quot;theological&quot; frame of mind here when I offer these criticisms. These minor reservations do not prevent me from giving this Bible my highest recommendation for anyone wanting a great devotional tool.	2002-04-02
US	52542864	R4INPEP82RAM9	087788157X	590150409	Madeleine L'Engle Herself: Reflections on a Writing Life (Writers' Palette)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Juicy nuggets of wisdom from an accomplished author	Any person of a spiritual bent who is interested in writing would benefit greatly by reading this book. Not purporting to be a full course in &quot;creative writing&quot;, these short one- and two-page excerpts from lectures and other works are inspirational to the budding author. L'Engle is a strong believer in the power of story, in allowing the characters in the story to take the author to unexpected places, in &quot;serving the work&quot;, and in the belief that there is no difference in writing for children or adults. Biblical inerrantists may stumble a little at her theology (she seems to be somewhat neo-orthodox), but that should not hinder the creative Christian and non-Christian alike from gleaning much wisdom from this book.	2002-04-02
US	52542864	R1SAP9VPFBTI6J	0310235332	924348599	Messy Spirituality: God's Annoying Love for Imperfect People	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Bless this mess	If you're a perfect, upstanding, respectable, fully mature Christian, you may not identify with very much in this book. If you're like the other 99.9% of us, this book is a capital-G Godsend. It may be a revelation to some that a person can sincerely love Jesus and be a seeker of God yet continue to display weaknesses, areas of non-discipline, and, let's just say it, sins that would seem incongruous with &quot;true&quot; Christianity. There are many out there that feel like second-class Christians because they feel they don't pray enough, or may occasionally use salty language, or smoke cigarettes, or...fill in the blanks. This is a book not only for those people, but for those who are tempted to sit in judgment over those people. <br />Mike Yaconelli is former editor of &quot;The Door&quot;, probably the only Christian humor magazine around, and is presently a lay pastor of a small church. He sees below the surface mess of people's lives and invites the reader out of a world of self-condemnation and into a land of freedom. Some may be concerned that this book gives people a license to sin. Well, most people sin quite well without a license! When we are honest before God and give up pretending that our lives are neat and tidy, that's when God can take the messes of our lives and redeem them into something beautiful. This is a little book, but it packs a big punch. Highly recommended.	2002-03-10
US	52542864	R1O0DGS9LC3PGG	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Welcome to &quot;The Jungle&quot;	The author definitely has an agenda, no two ways about it, and as a political conservative I squirmed more than a few times at what seemed to be a blanket indictment against the Republican party, but as a human being I could not help but be affected by this book. The second part, especially, detailing the horrible conditions at meat-processing plants is certainly an eye-opener, reminiscent of Upton Sinclair's &quot;The Jungle&quot;, written in 1906. This book, if nothing else, is eduational. Especially interesting to me was the chapter about the New Jersey chemical companies that develop formulas that make fast food taste and smell the way it does, totally in the chemical realm. There is also some interesting, if not comprehensive, fast-food history here. Unfortunately, one thing this book did not do is stop me from eating at fast food places. Excuse me, I think I'll go grab a Big Mac.	2002-02-27
US	52542864	R3TJ083TNV8SI4	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Five more ways of being dysfunctional	To (very loosely) paraphrase Tolstoy, all happy families are alike and all dysfunctional families are dysfunctional in their own peculiar way. The five major players here all have their issues, and the back stories (which are of varying interest) are all detailed here to lead up to a potentially explosive Christmas. I was expecting something shocking or outrageously over-the-top to happen, and nothing really did (unless you count the dad falling off a cruise ship and SURVIVING, for gosh sakes, in his already fragile state). The book has its tedious parts (unless you have a great interest in the railroad industry or the stock market) but there are developments here of great subtlety that I'm sure could provide grist for some interesting term papers in a college postmodern literature course (possible subjects: the role C.S. Lewis' &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia&quot; plays in the narrative, and the developing similarities between Alfred and the oldest son, Gary, including the hallucinations and Gary's sudden interest in model trains). Not nearly as much fun as David Foster Wallace's &quot;Infinite Jest&quot;, but at least in this book the ending made sense, unlike in &quot;Jest&quot;. I give this book 3 1/2 stars, rounded up to four.	2002-02-27
US	52542864	R23NV56QTAJOBE	1931033013	610964959	Weight Loss Surgery : Understanding & Overcoming Morbid Obesity - Life Before, During & After Surgery	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Elementary information about WLS	In reading previous reviews of this book, which call it \\"the ultimate book on weight loss surgery\\" and a \\"great resource for WLS\\", my expectations were raised to an unrealistic level. The reality is, this is a very informative book that may not tell you everything you want to know, but probably most of what you need to know. Written by someone in the nursing profession who has experienced this type of surgery, parts of it come off like an elementary school science textbook. It could very well have been called \\"Weight Loss Surgery for Dummies\\" (not an insult, by the way, just as a reference to the popular \\"Dummies\\" series of books). I did appreciate the fact that the author takes a Christian approach. As someone who is considering this type of surgery, I am often haunted with feelings that if I have WLS that it will be a \\"cop-out\\" and will be an admission that I can't \\"get the victory\\" over gluttony. But WLS is just a tool to help a person lose weight and keep it off, and it has an unbelievable success rate (unlike dieting). There are lots of books out there, and lots of information, and this one definitely will help you in your decision-making process as to whether to opt for surgery or not. I docked it one star for being overpriced.	2002-02-19
US	52542864	R33ODS2ZQ5MVAP	0895261979	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	64	87	N	N	Evil has a name: Hillary Rodham Clinton	\\"But now it is Hillary's turn. The Clinton era is far from over, and Hillary's ambitions far from satisfied\\". With those chilling words, which are frightening enough to cause insomnia, the original draft of this book is concluded (before the Afterword, entitled \\"She's Back\\", was added later for this paperback edition). What's really scary is that there is a significant number of Americans who turn a blind eye to Hillary's extreme leftist beliefs, her flagrant abuse of power, her illegal financial activities, her lust for more power so profound she continues in a sham marriage to a sex-addicted lying sleazeball of an ex-President. When (not if) she makes a run at the presidency, someone should mail a copy of this book to every voter in America. Is Hillary as bad as all that? Read this book for your answer. You may not want to read it right before going to bed.<br />Barbara Olson, we miss you. Who's going to pick up your mantle as the #1 Hillary-watcher in America? Who's going to save us from her inevitable march to the White House? Rest in peace, Barbara, for here on earth there will be no peace if another Clinton becomes POTUS.	2002-02-08
US	52542864	R2UPOHVKYNHNYR	0310224713	530525851	The Heart of the Artist	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Required reading for all &quot;high-maintenance artistic types&quot;	Somebody once called me a &quot;high-maintenance artistic type&quot;. And, I suppose it's true. Not that it's an excuse for anything, mind you. But creative types are often overly sensitive, vulnerable to temptations and addictions, insecure, prideful, and have a host of other tendencies that do nothing to promote good, harmonious working relationships with others in the church (and with God). Guilty as charged. Well,this book gets right to the heart of the matter in dealing with every conceivable situation that arises among groups of artists (whether worship team, drama team, or dance team)that attempt to work together for the glory of God. The fact is, there is no place for jealousy, envy, and backbiting among artists or any other Christians. Rory Noland pinpoints issues that often arise in the life of the artist, and gives good, Biblical solutions. A must-have for Christian artists in any field.	2002-02-08
US	52542864	RJ5J0KKCYXQTX	157673854X	127354083	The Lotus and the Cross: Jesus Talks with Buddha	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Barely scratches the surface	This is a very small volume, about the size of &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot;, and is a fairly quick read. The author, who is a well-known Christian apologist, imagines a conversation involving Jesus, Buddha, and a prostitute. The intent is to highlight some of the basic differences between Christianity as taught by Jesus and Buddhism and, yes, is does have a definite Christian slant to it. Nobody should be surprised or upset by this when they take into account the author's point of view. I'm sure if he was a Buddhist and felt like Buddhism had the answers, it would be slanted the other way. <br />Of course, a book this small can barely scratch the surface of either religion and the differences between them, but it is a good starting point. It may be an oversimplification of the subject, but it can whet one's appetite for deeper research. Would a conversation including Jesus and Buddha go exactly this way? Probably not, because who could presume to put words in the mouth of either Christ or Buddha? It is a vehicle, however, for the Socratic approach used here, and it is effective, if not comprehensive.	2002-01-25
US	52542864	R2GGYLDQXR5YA2	1890470015	674134512	Barry Trotter and the Unauthorized Parody	Books	4	5	6	N	N	While you're waiting for Book 5...	Barry Trotter is a 22-year-old slacker wizard who still lives at Hogwash Academy with his half-canine-brained friend Lon Measley. The future of Hogwash is in peril because of the glut of fans that are camping out there, thanks to the fact that Barry sold a map to the place (now, if Hogwash is enchanted, it's never quite explained how a map would help the &quot;Muddles&quot; find the place, but, never mind). They are sent on a mission to the United States (of course, engaging the help of the third member of this triumverate, Ermine Cringer) to stop the production of the Barry Trotter movie. Along the way, they attempt to find author J.G. Rollins, and finally Barry confronts his mortal enemy, Lord Valumart.<br />This book has enough bodily function gags to make the Farrelly brothers proud (turns out, this is not by accident), plus some wicked parody and an underlying anti-commercialism theme (although whether the author is serious about this or it is just a comedic device, who knows?) There are places where the book drags a little, and not all the jokes work, but it is clever to the end, where a couple of twists make you wonder what you are reading after all. This may not be a book that 12-year-old Harry Potter devotees might appreciate, but for older fans and even non-fans of the series, it's an entertaining diversion while waiting for the fifth Potter book to hit the stores.	2002-01-19
US	52542864	R3SSWBQ9EXD85E	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Twas the night before Christmas, not a lawyer in sight	I don't know if I'd call this book a Christmas classic any more than I'd call &quot;National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation&quot; a classic Christmas movie, but, just as I enjoy seeing the antics of the Griswolds every December, I'm sure I will be returning to this book for some light holiday entertainment. And what's wrong with that? By now you know the story: a middle-aged couple faced with celebrating Christmas without their daughter who joined the Peace Corps and was shipped off to South America decide to sign up for a Christmas cruise and skip all the hustle and bustle of the holiday season. Of course, that's easier said than done, as pressure from friends, neighbors, merchants, and civic charity groups threatens to wear down their resolve. They certainly can't get away with skipping Christmas....can they? This is certain to become a movie showing at a theater near you for the Christmas of 2003 or 4.	2002-01-18
US	52542864	R37PLXRG8ZKXX1	1566490480	448167802	What'd I Say?: The Atlantic Story	Books	5	13	13	N	N	This is one big beautiful book	First of all, this book is huge and weighs a ton. That is appropriate for the subject matter, because Atlantic Records is a huge presence in the history of rhythm &amp; blues and rock. Chock full of pictures and commentary, this presents a totally fascinating portrait of Ahmet Ertegun and his record company, including all the great artists associated with Atlantic. From the early days with artists such as Ruth Brown and the Clovers, through the early career of Ray Charles, and on to Otis Redding, Solomon Burke, Wilson Pickett and the incomparable Aretha Franklin, Atlantic Records made its reputation in R&amp;B. Less well known, but hardly less influential, is its presence in the jazz world, thanks to Ahmet's brother Nesuhi. In the late '60's Atlantic expanded into the field of rock with Cream, Led Zeppelin, and, later, the Rolling Stones, and was a major player in art/progressive rock by signing such bands as King Crimson, Yes, and Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer. <br />They could have ended the book in the early '70's, in my opinion, because after corporate buyouts and sellouts, Atlantic's imprint became less distinctive. Face it, Foreigner could have been on any label and it wouldn't have made much difference. Later forays into country music seem very un-Atlantic, to say the least. But during its heyday, there was no label putting out as high a level of quality music as Atlantic records, and this is its fascinating story.	2002-01-11
US	52542864	R3TRETA3QY9WJ5	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	6	11	N	N	The strange, absurd world of Ignatius J. Reilly	In his book &quot;On Writing&quot;, Stephen King's advice to aspiring writers is not to focus so much on plot or theme, but on creating characters that act true to themselves, and the plot will basically write itself. &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot;, I believe, does just that. The strength of this book is in its characters, and as they interact, the plot develops in an often hilarious fashion. There are enough &quot;minor&quot; characters to rival the cast of &quot;The Simpsons&quot;, and they all have their quirks and eccentricities. There is Mancusco, the disgraced policeman who is forced to patrol wearing absurd costumes and disguises. There is the jive-talking Jones, trying to keep one step ahead of the law by working at sub-minimum wage in a seedy dive. There is Darlene who has the &quot;bright&quot; idea of performing a striptease act with a trained cockatoo, with disastrous results. There is Miss Trixie, a senile secretary still waiting for her Christmas ham. There is the henpecked CEO of Levy Pants, who is content to let the company run itself much to the chagrin of his shrewish wife. These characters and many more populate the universe of this expert novel.<br />The character around which this whole universe revolves is Ignatius J. Reilly. Ignatius cannot fully be described, only experienced. An overweight slob with the vocabulary of an elite snob, Ignatius is at the same time a reactionary and a revolutionary, decidedly out of place in the 20th century, a man with a &quot;unique world view&quot;, writing out his manifesto on an endless supply of Big Chief Tablets. Ignatius is usually screaming at almost everything, especially his tippling mother, but also at the dancers on an &quot;American Bandstand&quot;-type show and the actors on the movie screen. His entrance into the job market, as a file clerk who refuses to file and a hot-dog vendor who eats most of the product himself, his botched attempts at political organization, and his obsessive disgust with his &quot;girlfriend&quot; in New York make for a character the likes of which is previously unknown in all of literature. <br />Reviewer have called this a great comic novel, which I feel is shortchanging this book quite a bit. It's a great novel, period.	2001-12-04
US	52542864	R23IN0HMBO6ZQ2	0830823298	163073388	Book Lover's Guide to Great Reading: A Guided Tour of Classic & Contemporary Literature	Books	4	15	17	N	N	If one could only live long enough to read all these books!	I am a sucker for &quot;books about books&quot;, and this is another valuable resource for the bibliophile, written from a Christian perspective. Actually an expansion from his earlier work, &quot;Great Books of the Christian Tradition&quot;, this is an excellent reference for great books whether classic or contemporary. Glaspey is not afraid to recommend books with worldviews that are opposed to the evangelical Christian tradition, which I find very commendable. Unfortunately, there are some dubious choices included here, in my opinion, that don't stand up to the other great works included, like Jan Karon's terminally boring &quot;At Home in Mitford&quot;, or John Grisham's mildly entertaining but far from transcendent &quot;The Testament&quot;. But you have to admire a guy that has managed to read all these books (you have, haven't you, Terry?), and his enthusiasm for great literature is contagious. A must-have for book lovers!	2001-12-04
US	52542864	R2EJRCV2WSI4ZU	088419793X	491848160	Walk On: The Spiritual Journey of U2	Books	4	35	37	N	N	A spiritual interpretation of the life and career of U2	I have followed the career of U2 almost from the beginning, and they have been one of my top two or three bands of all time for many years. As a Christian, discovering their spiritual underpinnings was exhilerating to me, and a source of great joy, which later led to puzzlement when their lifestyles seemed to turn decadent. The basic question remained: Are they still Christians? This book answers that question with a resounding YES! <br />All this time there has been a method to the madness of U2, even with their seeming slide into the typical rock lifestyle during the 1990's. As they invented and reinvented themselves, they were still sending out a peculiarly Christian message for those with ears to hear. This book draws on many interviews over the years with the band, particularly frontman Bono, and Bono shows a depth of spirituality that may be surprising to many. Look past the smoking, drinking, and cursing (which seems to have fallen off somewhat with the onset of the new millennium) and you find a band (or at least a frontman, more about that later) that is in love with God and humankind, and expresses its faith in artistic ways that often confound the more literal-minded.<br />Where this book falls short, in my opinion, is that it seems to be mostly the spiritual journey of Bono. What about the rest of the band? We hear a little from The Edge, and virtually nothing from the other Christian in the band, Larry Mullen. Even the token non-Christian, Adam Clayton, would have had things to share about being in a band with three Christians. Surely he has not spent all this time with them and gone totally untouched spiritually. Bono is simply the most visible member, but I'm sure the others would have something to say as well. <br />If anyone is unsure whether, as a Christian, you &quot;should&quot; like and support U2 or not, this book has the answer. As for me, I think I'll run out and fill in the gaps in my U2 CD collection.	2001-12-04
US	52542864	R35IIXD8RN0AYL	0312266561	688148907	The Undefeated: The Oklahoma Sooners and the Greatest Winning Streak in College Football	Books	3	13	16	N	N	A great read, but how accurate is it?	This is a difficult book to review for me. On one hand, being a rabid Oklahoma Sooner fan, I found this book a totally fascinating account of the 47-game winning streak of Bud Wilkinson's Sooners in the mid-50's. On the other hand, being in contact with many other Sooner fans, some who personally know players from that era, they say this book is a crock. For example, Tommy McDonald is portrayed in this book as a selfish player who was not well-liked by his teammates. But talk to those who know Tommy and they'll tell you just the opposite is true: he was a total team player who brought a huge dose of infectious enthusiasm toward the game. <br />For the first time anywhere, Bud Wilkinson, perhaps the greatest college football coach in history, is portrayed as a split personality: conservative and aloof in public, and a hard-drinking, womanizing party animal in private. Only someone from outside the family (the Sooner family and the Wilkinson family) would have the guts to show Bud in this rather dubious light. This is quite entertaining to the reader, but is it accurate? Some of the things that occurred later in Bud's life (like dumping his wife for a much younger woman) would make this portrayal seem not so far-fetched.<br />The inaccuracies of this book have been documented elsewhere (repeat after me Mr. Dent: Kansas U. is in Lawrence, Kansas State is in Manhattan!) But beyond the minor inaccuracies lies the question: how much of this is actually true? Barry Switzer has been quoted as saying he never would have written the Foreword for this book if he had read it first. Although &quot;The Undefeated&quot; has great entertainment value, it's sort of like an Oliver Stone film. It leaves you wondering, &quot;Is this the way it really was?&quot;	2001-11-06
US	52542864	R2KBJZFE3M6XFH	0449911217	553771181	In the Beauty of the Lilies: A Novel	Books	4	36	40	N	N	One family's relationship with God and Hollywood	John Updike writes a sprawling story here following one family through four generations in the twentieth century and their very different relationships with God and cinema. The patriarch, Clarence Wilmot, is a Presbyterian minister who suddenly loses his faith in God. Believing that there is no God, he quits the ministry (which, due to outside pressure, is easier said than done). Clarence's honesty, if nothing else, must be appreciated. Someone with less integrity might have stayed in the ministry and become a precursor to John Shelby Spong (sorry, had to get that in). Clarence attempts to sell encyclopedias door-to-door, but increasingly spends more time at the movie theater. Is he looking for salvation in Hollywood?<br />Clarence's son, Teddy, has the most ordinary story of the Wilmot clan. Unambitious, though not lazy, he is content with the quiet life of a postman in a small Delaware town. Teddy never attends church, and seems to be unreligious, yet by marrying a handicapped girl seems to display an acceptance of the disenfranchised that has a spark of Christlikeness. <br />The next section of the story concerns Teddy's daughter Essie, who to me is the most problematic character in this book. Essie is constantly aware of God, and indeed would not know what it was like to not believe in God. Yet Essie's narcissism and self-centeredness betrays a very shallow faith. Infatuated with herself from a young age, she grows up to be a movie star, displaying the typical &quot;godless&quot; lifestyle that many perceive as typical of Hollywood. Belief in God is her &quot;secret&quot;, and she keeps it well-hidden indeed, even from her own son. <br />Essie (who takes the name Alma DeMott--by the way, doesn't this sound more like a name for a star of the 1920's rather than the 1950's?) is a particularly neglectful mother to her son Clark. Clark becomes the typical Hollywood kid: drugs, sex, fast cars, and a generally shiftless lifestyle. He gets seduced by a Branch Davidian-type cult (a little TOO much like the Branch Davidians--Updike was trying too hard to be in step with current events here) and the story comes to a climax that is a little too predictable, although with an important twist, due to Clark's renegade nature. In a stange way, life has come full-circle for this family: Clarence loses faith in God and attempts to find escape in the movies, and his great-grandson loses faith in Hollywood and finds escape in a cult group and their counterfeit God.	2001-10-30
US	52542864	R3TT8VBKA8KZ1H	0664224199	999679637	The Gospel According to The Simpsons:  The Spiritual Life of the World's Most Animated Family	Books	5	26	30	N	N	This book is better than okily-dokily!!	As a lover of God and a lover of &quot;The Simpsons&quot;, I couldn't resist picking up this book. It's a very entertaining look at a show that deals with religion more blatantly than any other show this side of &quot;Touched by an Angel&quot;. But does the show uphold Christianity and other religions, or does it attempt to subvert them? Probably both, but even by trying to be subversive it inevitably affirms the important part religious beliefs and activities play in the life of America.<br />The character most evangelical Christians like myself identify with the most is the Simpsons' next-door neighbor Ned Flanders. While the show often pokes fun at the evangelical subculture at Ned's expense, it ultimately presents Ned in a very positive light, as a sincere lover of God who is portrayed as possessing human foibles at times without being a hypocrite. Lisa Simpson is less obviously religious, seeming to be the most &quot;liberal&quot; of the cast, but in her questioning of faith and championing of causes such as animal rights and environmentalism fits in with the thinking of the more liberal, mainline denominations. Homer is more like a typical churchgoer than many would like to admit: basically a believer who is often wishy-washy, gullible, and theologically clueless but is basically honest and moral when all is said and done. Marge is the most religious and upright of the Simpson family. Other faiths are also portrayed in the characters of Krusty (Judaism) and Apu (Hinduism).<br />Rather than a true evangelical faith of salvation by grace, however, the show displays a religion of works. Of course, works are easier to deal with in a TV show than grace. The author also discusses the place of God, the Bible, Jesus (who is usually alluded to in a more indirect manner than God), and Satan in the Simpsons' universe. God, more than once, has himself interacted directly in the lives of the Springfield inhabitants.<br />This book give a very thorough, entertaining analysis of the role of religion on what has been, in my opinion, the best show on TV over the last ten-plus years. I highly recommend &quot;The Gospel According to the Simpsons&quot; to anyone interested in religion and culture studies, and to all fans of the show.is of the role of religion on what has been, in my opinion, the best show on TV over the last ten-plus years. I highly recommend &quot;The Gospel According to the Simpsons&quot; to anyone interested in religion and culture studies, and to all fans of the show.	2001-10-09
US	52542864	RWKIG3WQCDNPC	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Two, two, two books in one	Stephen King probably should have called this book &quot;On Life and on Writing.&quot; That's because this book is part autobiography (a rather sketchy autobiography) and part writing course. The book never fails to be interesting, thus the four stars, but I think the reading/writing public could have been better served by two separate books, with a fuller treatment of both King's life and his tips on writing. What he has to say about writing is very helpful, and one cannot argue with his success. While it is probably not the final word on the craft of writing, it is a very good start.	2001-10-03
US	52542864	R27XHAHD6DQM2L	0385502745	168004040	Soul Survivor: Why I am Still a Christian	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Another stellar offering from Philip Yancey	I've come to realize that, while preachers and priests may do a lot of good for God's Kingdom while they are on this earth, it's the writers who really have lasting influence for generations to come. (Let's face it, C.S. Lewis has done infinitely more to shape Christian thinking than, say, Jerry Falwell). Philip Yancey is one of the great writers on the Christian scene today who I am sure will live on through his books for a long time after he's gone, and it has a lot to do with the fact that writing is his life, not just a sideline to some other career. It is significant that, while Yancey was becoming disillusioned with the institutional church (especially the racist Southern fundamentalist church he grew up in) there were people, both past and present, who were instrumental in keeping his faith alive, and many (though not all) of them were writers. Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Donne, Dillard, Buechner, the list goes on. Yancey writes about these individuals and others who shaped his life through their writings and their lives.<br />The first individual profiled is Martin Luther King Jr. Yancey paints an almost unbelievable but unflinchingly true protrait of the extreme racism of his Atlanta upbringing in the early '60s and the ungodly mistreatment of King and his followers during that time. While not glossing over deep flaws in King's character he portrays King as a deeply spiritual man of faith and edurance who never compromised his belief in nonviolent resistance, even when many of his kindred strayed from the standard of non-retaliation King preached and practiced. <br />Yancey writes about thirteen individuals in all, and space does not permit a summary of each one here. The one thing they each have in common is that they had a profound effect on Yancey's life and faith. There are some interesting choices here, including one person, Mahatma Gandhi, who expressly declined to embrace the Christian faith even as he was following the teachings of Jesus more closely and seriously than perhaps 98% of all the Christians who ever lived. Some of the people profiled are fairly well known, like former Surgeon General C. Everaett Koop, and some are more obscure, at least to me, like Japanese author Shusaku Endo, but they are all worth getting to know, flaws and all. Who would make your list of thirteen influential people who have had a positive effect on your faith? Philip Yancey would certainly be a strong candidate to make my list.	2001-09-29
US	52542864	R2U8J0NW3YU6JO	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A brilliant achievement in American literary history	Don't listen to the naysayers. This is a truly great piece of literature. On the surface, it's a great adventure story in the tradition of &quot;The Odyssey&quot;. But there are deeper issues to be tackled, issues that still can provoke lively discussion more than 100 years after the book was written. In my opinion, the central theme to the story is Huck's development of a moral code. Huck's sense of right and wrong is forged in the furnace of experience and the need for survival. The reader is put in the position of rooting for Huck to escape his abusive father even if it necessitates the use of deception, making people believe that he, Huck, had been killed. In the journey down the Mississippi with escaped slave Jim, Huck survives by use of his wits, pretending to be someone he's not (his attempt to pass himself off as a girl fails miserably), and encountering various interesting characters. For awhile, he stays with a very respectable, upright family who has one problem: they are in a feud with another family, which results in a tragic ending for all concerned. (As a sidenote, I read that section of the book the morning of September 11, before turning on the TV only to be horrified by the events of that day when America and freedom itself was so violently attacked. Why must the world continue partaking of the bitter fruit of violence?) The comic pair of &quot;royal&quot; con men who become traveling companions with Huck and Jim scheme to dupe the unwitting out of money as they travel from town to town, until Huck helps to foil their biggest scheme. Huck's moral code is continually shaped by the extent by which he values people as friends and worthy individuals. Once Jim is recaptured, Huck has to make a decision which becomes the central moral dilemma of the book: should Huck return Jim to Miss Watson, from whom he escaped, because now Huck is having severe misgivings about helping take someone else's &quot;property&quot;, or should he help Jim escape because Jimhas become a friend to him? Interestingly, Huck does not debate, in his own mind, the morality or immorality of the slave trade in and of itself, but be makes his decision based on Jim's friendship, which Huck thinks is the wrong decision based on what he was taught. But, of course, Huck basically follows his heart.<br />At this point, the book bogs down a little. There is a contrived situation where Huck reunites with Tom Sawyer, and what should have been a fairly easy escape for Jim is complicated needlessly by Tom's romantic ideals gained by his reading of adventure books. Even though I found this part of the novel frustrating to read, it does point to the difference between Huck's pragmatism and Tom's romanticism. Huck gives in to Tom too easily on this point, and the whole escape plan almost blows up in their faces. Don't allow the rather weak ending (or the liberal use of the n-word) to deter you from reading perhaps the paramount achievement in American literature. Enjoy it for the rousing adventure it is, and think about the deeper moral questions raised by this book. If any novel deserves the label &quot;classic&quot;, it's &quot;The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn&quot;.	2001-09-19
US	52542864	R1EH2NAVTDEK61	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lesson for all of us	The story is very simple on the surface: a young black man in 1940's Lousiana is sentenced to die for a crime he did not commit. The public defender basically strips him of his humanity in court by referring to him as a &quot;hog&quot;. A schoolteacher (the narrator, Grant Wiggins) is coerced by his aunt and the prisoner's godmother to visit the young man and impart to him a sense of dignity, enabling him to die like a man and not a beast. Of course, there is always more to a book like this than the simple story. It brings alive a time and place that is in the past, although not far enough. The unspoken protocol between blacks and whites of that time illustrates the ever-present racism of that period. No wonder Wiggins wants to escape, to leave that world in which he is indeed as much a prisoner as the condemned young man Jefferson. The learning that takes place is mutual, and the learning is there for each reader that will open his or her heart and let this powerful book speak to the soul.	2001-09-05
US	52542864	R2OGN2OG7JTZN	0743417283	838262110	It's Only a Game	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beneath the laughter is the pain	There are two Terry Bradshaws: the real Terry Bradshaw from Shreveport, LA, who led the Pittsburgh Steelers to four Super Bowl victories, and the character that also goes by the name of Terry Bradshaw, a backwoods bumpkin that doesn't know how to pronounce &quot;sushi&quot; correctly. Both Terry Bradshaws are evident in this book, and sometimes they are a little hard to separate. <br />Although he keeps a lighthearted, almost comedic tone through much of the book, it is easy to detect pain beneath the laughter. There is the pain of failure in his personal life (as a Christian, he is embarrassed by the fact that he has been married and divorced three times). There is the pain of never quite being accepted by the fans of Pittsburgh, which is why he has seldom gone back there after his playing career. And of course, that lingering pain of being regarded as something less than intelligent, which he has exploited to create the &quot;character&quot; Terry Bradshaw. Also, there is lots of physical pain which just simply comes from being an NFL player. <br />Mostly, though, there is the laughter, and there are the good times. Bradshaw believes his mission in life is to make people feel good, to make them laugh, to bring them joy. Although he has learned some hard lessons (like don't get into the cattle business unless you know what you are doing, and don't become a spokesman for a toupee company), he treats everything with good humor. That makes this book an enjoyable read.<br />Oh, and did I mention that he called all his own plays?	2001-09-04
US	52542864	R7USV4FBOCHWE	0674951298	957271785	When Time Shall Be No More: Prophecy Belief in Modern American Culture (Studies in Cultural History)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Chronicle of end-times preoccupation	Anyone who reads this book would not be surprised at the runaway success of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series, since it demonstrates that a preoccupation with Bible prophecy affects a much wider demographic than the fundamentalist subculture. Indeed, the impact of premillenial thought has extended all the way up to the Reagan White House. And, Christian or not, who hasn't heard of the term &quot;Antichrist&quot; or the significance of the number &quot;666&quot;? This book presents a fairly comprehensive survey of popular eschatology, including the role of Israel, Russia, the Arab countries, Europe, and the United States. It also shows how those beliefs have changed over the years (Turkey was considered Gog and Magog before Russia was, and the Pope was designated as the Antichrist for years before Hitler and Henry Kissinger came along). The final chapter, written at the brink of the collapse of the Soviet Union, demonstrates how, once again, premillenial thought adjusts itself (or sometimes not) depending upon world conditions. This is a fair, even-handed treatment of a religious and cultural phenomenon.	2001-09-04
US	52542864	R1I7X4GF94Y9IP	0849942918	824596446	When Heaven Weeps (Martyr's Song, Book 2)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Gripping story of unreasonable love	Although this story takes place in 1964, there is a &quot;story within a story&quot; in Book One that, to me, was the most emotional, heart-wrenching part of this whole novel. It hearkens back to World War II era Bosnia where a troop of soldiers, led by the unspeakably evil commander Karadzic, descends upon a peaceful village, turning a child's birthday party into a cruel, degrading, bloody &quot;game&quot;. The depth of love confronting evil nearly brought tears to my eyes, and nothing that came afterward in the book had quite the same impact, although parts of it came close.<br />Jan, a soldier who defied Karadzic and spent five years in prison as punishment, comes to Christ and writes a bestselling book about the incident. Now living in America (Atlanta, to be precise), he is engaged to his beautiful and intelligent publicist, and is poised to make millions on a proposed motion picture based on his book. Then he &quot;rescues&quot; a drug-addicted young woman in the park, and his cozy world begins to get turned upside down. Foolishly and recklessly, he falls in love with her. This is a love he tries desperately to fight, but he cannot, because this love comes from God. Significantly, this is a love that scandalizes the evangelical establishment. Complicating matters is that Helen, the young woman, is torn between the unconditional love showered upon her by Jan and her love and craving for drugs, a craving that keeps her coming back to Villain #2, the evil and powerful Glenn Lutz. <br />&quot;When Heaven Weeps&quot; is based on the book of Hosea and the Song of Solomon from the Old Testament. It is symbolic of God's extravagent, almost foolish love for His people. There are many other issues working in this novel as well, not the least of which is the problem of Christian celebrity and the necessity of keeping up appearances. I found the treatment of Helen's drug addiction realistic, as well. It brought to mind a magazine article by Patti Davis that I read recently which talks about addiction as being a true love affair with drugs. Helen is truly torn between two lovers.<br />Unfortunately, I have to be the first reviewer to give this book less than five stars. The reason I do so is there are certain historical aspects that are problematic. These problems could have been solved by setting the story in 1976 instead of 1964. For one thing, as a previous reviewer pointed out, Nikes did not come on the scene until 1972, so Helen could not have worn Nikes in 1964. Also, references to cocaine as the drug of choice and a dance floor with a mirror ball seem more in tune with the &quot;disco era.&quot; The story mentions a telephone answering machine, and I don't think those were too predominant in 1964. ALso, Helen is basically a hippie chick about a year or two too early. Putting the story 12 years later would have made Jan older, but Helen could still be 29 years old, thereby adding a greater age difference and fueling the &quot;scandal&quot; even more. And while it's possible that a drug dealer sold her mother &quot;acid&quot; in 1950 or before, it's not likely since LSD at that time was used mostly in psychological experiments and had not yet become a &quot;street drug&quot;. Those issues became a distraction to me in what otherwise was a very compelling, gripping story. <br />I haven't even mentioned the fact that, besides being a love story, this is also a white-knuckle thriller. So we have love, drugs, God, death, violence, action, and even gardening! How can you go wrong with a book like this?	2001-09-04
US	52542864	RKT5ZQ4J25XL6	0060641665	160769686	The Real Jesus: The Misguided Quest for the Historical Jesus and the Truth of the Traditional Go	Books	5	64	79	N	N	Not merely an &quot;attack&quot; on the Jesus Seminar	Luke Timothy Johnson is no fundamentalist. Johnson works in the milieu of critical scholarship while still maintaining a vibrant faith, much like the late Raymond Brown. Therefore, his observations in this book should not be dismissed as the rantings of rabid anti-scholar. There is much more to this book than criticism of the Jesus Seminar. The issues involved in contemporary biblical scholarship in general are articulated well. The main point of the book is that there are such severe limitations in historical research that any historical reconstruction of Jesus, i.e. &quot;the historical Jesus&quot; cannot be &quot;the real Jesus&quot; that is worshipped and followed by the church. The real Jesus is the one presented by the Gospels, and indeed by other sections of the New Testament (the letters of Paul, James, I Peter, etc.) Although the Jesus Seminar takes the brunt of the criticism here, Johnson also points out some of the methodological missteps of less radical scholars such as John P. Meier. This book makes some valid points and is essential reading to get another view in the lively area of contemporary Jesus scholarship.	2001-08-29
US	52542864	R2CO7EHWYQ6H6E	0060616628	217861600	Jesus	Books	2	25	64	N	N	Bizarro-Jesus	The title of this book is somewhat of a misnomer. It is not so much a &quot;biography&quot; (except for about five pages in the epilogue) as a summary of the author's (mostly misguided) research. The uniqueness of the person of Jesus is pretty much deep-sixed, as what is shown to be typical, according to Crossan's selective research, is used to set the parameters for this woefully inadequate portrait of Jesus. To illustrate: Jesus was a peasant, and practically all the peasants at the time were illiterate, so Jesus must have been illiterate. Therefore, you know that little incident in the synagogue where Jesus read that passage from Isaiah? Didn't happen. And peasants who were crucified in those days were usually left for the vultures to feast upon or buried in a shallow grave and eaten by dogs (&quot;Remember those dogs at the foot of the cross!&quot; the reader is constantly reminded). So why would Jesus be any different? Therefore, there was no Joseph of Arimethea to bury Jesus in a cave, and no stone to be rolled away because, of course, there was no literal resurrection. In fact, the differing resurrection accounts were motivated by ecclesiastical politics, this book concludes.<BR>The concept of &quot;open commensality&quot; is presented as the centerpiece of Jesus' teaching and actions. Open commensality is a radical egalitarianism symbolized by eating together at the table with all no matter what their station in life.This is seen as a microcosm of Jesus' view of society where all are accepted, including the destitute, the outcasts, and sinners of every stripe. I have no problem with this, although it seems conveniently in step with 21st-century &quot;politically correct&quot; thinking. The problem comes where everything that is deemed to conflict with this defining characteristic of Jesus is tossed out. This is the first book I've ever read that regards the Twelve as a pure invention. It's almost as if the author is trying to outdo all that came before him in his extreme skepticism. Of course, that would make the Last Supper an invention, also, institutionalizing and ultimately ruining Jesus' pure concept of open commensality.<BR>At least Jesus is taken seriously as a healer. But wait! That doesn't mean Jesus actually cured illnesses. His healing of diseases is regarded as a sociological phenomenon, where the sick are not physically cured but they are deemed to be no longer outcasts, as the sick were in that era. Well, maybe that works for Jesus rather limited society, but it makes no sense for society at large. This is just a typical liberal theological run-around that illustrates the modernist belief in a closed universe that allows for no possibility of the truly miraculous.<BR>In summation, this book adds up to...not much. The Jesus presented here would be unrecognizable to believers throughout history, including those who walked with him while he was on this earth. In attempting to make Jesus &quot;relevant&quot; to a politically-correct post-modern world, Crossan strips him of all his uniqueness and presents him as a powerless figure unworthy of worship or following in any religious or spiritual sense. This picture of Jesus is like a jigsaw puzzle with 95% of the pieces missing.	2001-08-29
US	52542864	R2KIPL1B7SG3Y7	0743211316	19219684	It Takes a Village Idiot: A Memoir of Life After the City	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hilarious and so real	City boy and wife move to the country (well, just on the weekends--at first), experience culture shock, go through a transition period, wind up loving the country and moving there permanently. Heard it or seen it all before, right? Well, never mind that, this is a funny, funny book. Although the actual town is fictionalized, and I'm sure many events were also fictionalized or exaggerated, this book has the ring of hilarious truth. I was expecting this to be a lot like the movie &quot;Funny Farm&quot; with Chevy Chase, but this is much funnier and much more true to life. Plus, it brings a particular geographical area along with the accompanying mindset of the residents to life. So all the time you're laughing, you're getting educated as well. Highly recommended for light reading on a lazy afternoon.	2001-08-29
US	52542864	R1SSKZ8787NXBG	068485466X	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas Of Depression	Books	4	24	28	N	N	An amazing tour-de-force in the area of depression	Andrew Solomon is a man with a disease (depression) and he is driven to research and examine this disease from every angle, interviewing dozens of fellow sufferers, gathering information on every medication and therapy available, and analyzing the effects of depression on a wide variety of socio-economic groups. This indeed has to be the most comprehensive book on this subject written by a non-medical professional. I wondered how the author found time to do all the research and interviewing necessary to gather his information. He certainly left no stone unturned, even journeying to Africa to take part in a bizarre ritual to rid him of the spirits of depression (surprisingly effective, at least in the short term). Some parts of the book were more interesting than others, and I even skipped the chapter on evolution, as I question the relevance of evolutionary theory upon attempting to discover more effective treatments. Solomon is very opinionated about some issues, and I vehemently disagree with some of his views (especially concerning the &quot;right&quot; to suicide) so I couldn't quite give this book the full five stars. But, because of my keen interest in this subject (having gone through &quot;non-clinical&quot; depression at times in my life) I found this book quite fascinating. Almost everything a layperson needs to know on this subject is within these pages.	2001-08-18
US	52542864	R2GI62A6QLGIC6	1885767889	635426731	The Mantra of Jabez: Break on Though to the Other Side	Books	3	18	26	N	N	A good parody that maybe could have been a little better	Unlike &quot;Left Behind&quot;, which was brilliantly satirized by the parody &quot;Right Behind&quot;, I did read &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot;, of which this book is the parody. In my opinion, &quot;The Mantra of Jabez&quot; is not quite as successful as &quot;Right Behind&quot;, which is not to say it's bad. For one thing, it's probably easier to parody a work of fiction than it is to parody what basically is a sermon in book form. This book does make some good points, in a satirical fashion, of course. While the original seems to indicate that Jabez was more honorable than his brothers because of his prayer, this book makes the point that his prayer was answered because he was more honorable, a big difference. But the author seems to be intent upon imparting a certain strand of Reformed theology and ridicules everything that falls outside of its scope. Nevertheless, there are some weaknesses in the way &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot; is utilized, and this book is very faithful in pointing those out in a humorous fashion.	2001-08-18
US	52542864	R1NBA0C37EJ92R	1885767870	837197382	Right Behind: A Parody of Last Days Goofiness	Books	5	69	78	N	N	I laughed my evangelical Christian keister off!!	I never read any of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series, but I know the theology and mindset all too well. This brilliant parody dismantles premillenial dispensationalism, the shallowness of the evangelical subculture, and the shoddy quality of the great majority of Christian fiction all in one hilarious fell swoop. The Antichrist, a former preacher from Tulsa (!), engineers a phony Rapture that leaves Christians stuck on ceilings, leaving behind their appendixes and any clothing that is not 100% cotton. The showdown between one of the &quot;heroes&quot; and the Antichrist in a Christian bookstore, where the Antichrist is pelted with Precious Moments figurines and is attacked with the help of a Thomas Kinkade painting is a real side-splitter. <br />This book is definitely not recommended for Christians who have no sense of humor. Ah, what the heck, they should read it, too. Might be good for them to get a little offended now and then. After all, Jesus offended the religious of his time, although He did it in a much less satirical fashion.	2001-08-18
US	52542864	R3S2OUPNPYEF8P	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	1	5	36	N	N	Falls with a thud	This &quot;novel&quot;, if you want to call it that, consists of an ex-lawyer who calls himself a &quot;judge-penitent&quot; prattling on to a presumably interested (though I can't figure out why) fellow he meets at a bar about his life. I suppose he is confessing, in a way, yet I found his confessions to be full of arrogance and pride even from the beginning, especially concerning his sexual conquests. If I were the listener, I'd try to get away from this blowhard as soon as I could. As a reader, I did manage to finish the book, after all it is fairly short and not particularly difficult. Many people who read this believe that it describes the human condition well, and can see glimpses of themselves in this man. Well, if they look hard enough, most people could see glimpses of themselves in the Unabomber, too. I found this book to be a total waste of time.	2001-08-15
US	52542864	R3JCJRDDJETQP4	087788630X	816806068	Orthodoxy: The Classic Account of a Remarkable Christian Experience (The Wheaton Literary Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Classic apologetics text	G.K. Chesterton came to his belief in Christianity through the &quot;back door&quot;, so to speak. He found the existing philosophies of the time illogical, formulated his own, and then found that what his own philosophy resembled most of all was Christianity. Christianity, to Chesterton, gives one much more freedom than liberalism. <br />While this is an often entertaining read, it takes an alert mind to grasp all that Chesterton is saying in this book. This is one of those texts, like Lewis' &quot;Mere Christianity&quot;, that stands the test of time, and is worth having on one's shelf to peruse again and again for nuggets of wisdom.	2001-08-15
US	52542864	R1XBR35P0MM7TD	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	3	21	28	N	N	Another way to &quot;skin a cat&quot;, so to speak	In all the years that I've read books about losing weight, getting fit, dieting, exercising, and all that jazz, I've come to the conclusion that just about anything works if you stick to it and if it is realistic for your lifestyle. Like the others, I'm sure this works, maybe better than most, but is it realistic for the average person? <br />There is a lot of good information here that a person can incorporate whether they stay strictly on this program or not. Phillips explodes the myth of &quot;The more exercise, the better&quot;. No, it is the efficiency and intensity of the exercise that brings results, and rest is as important as the actual exercise. The program alternates days of aerobic exercise and strength training, and, inevitably, gym membership is an unstated requirement (unless you have your own equipment, which few do). The dieting portion of the program seems overly restrictive, to me, as a rather short list of acceptable foods is provided. Thank goodness there is one &quot;free day&quot; a week provided, or else I suppose hardly anyone could stick with it for any great length of time. And, unfortunately, eating six meals a day as opposed to three may not be workable for some in certain employment situations, Myoplex or no Myoplex. (Myoplex, by the way, is a shake-type supplement manufactured by a company owned by the author of the book. I couldn't tell you if it tastes as nasty as most protein shakes or not, since I haven't tried it). <br />As they say, there is more than one way to skin a cat, and if this is your way, more power to you.	2001-08-01
US	52542864	R2I9MZOCIH8U76	0679602860	655554658	Don Quixote de La Mancha (Modern Library)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A most enjoyable, entertaining classic	Almost everyone knows about Don Quixote battling the windmills that he mistakes for giants. Of course, that is only one very, very small part of the story. The many adventures encountered (and created) by the brave Knight of Mournful Countenance and his faithful squire Sancho Panza make for enjoyable, if sometimes frustrating reading. The frustrating part is the tendency of Cervantes to veer off the path of the central story onto side roads that deals with the stories of peripheral characters. However, Cervantes himself realizes this by the time he composes Part Two, which was written ten years later than the first part, and his self-depracation makes the meanderings of the first part forgivable.<br />Everything else is purely enjoyable. Some sections of the novel are hysterical, but there is always a melancholy undertone because, the fact is, Don Quixote is a man living in a state of unreality, an object of ridicule and sport (and sometimes, suprisingly, admiration) to the world. The faithfulness of more aware, though simpleminded Sancho Panza is a testament to the loyalty of friendship, although the limits of friendship are tested often. Sancho's character is more fully developed in Part Two, as he is shown to be somewhat of an idiot savant, a prattler of endless proverbs who sometimes stumbles into near genius. By the end of the book, I found Sancho to be a more interesting character, to me, than Don Quixote himself.<br />This book took me several months to read. Although an extremely long book, it lends itself to being read in bits and pieces, sometimes with long intervals between readings. While I felt a sense of accomplishment in reading the almost 1200 pages, I was almost sad to see it end, which is high praise for a book such as this. &quot;Don Quixote&quot; is a classic in the best sense of the word.	2001-08-01
US	52542864	R11TAQRL78TO22	0830815635	663519348	Unapologetic Apologetics: Meeting the Challenges of Theological Studies	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Superb apologetic resource	While the discipline of apologetics has fallen into disuse and disfavor among mainline scholars who have subscribed to a more pluralistic philosophy, this intrepid group of Princeton alumni battle to keep that old apologetic spirit, so integral to &quot;Old Princeton&quot;, alive and well. They succeed admirably. Many issues are tackled in this book, especially naturalism and the effect it has had on biblical and theological studies. The book reads like a conservative theological journal, and, believe me, I would be thrilled to see more books from this group on the market. Every person preparing to enter seminary or study religion in a college setting should read this book and keep it handy for research purposes. Although some subjects could have been developed further (the chapter on universalism ended much too soon), all in all it is an outstanding resource.	2001-07-27
US	52542864	R14U0BTZX7Q7UO	0060690623	338934078	A View from the Ridge: The Testimony of a Twentieth-Century Christian	Books	3	19	19	N	N	A worthwhile read	I started reading this slim volume quite a few months ago and I put it down, never intending to finish it. Some of the early parts of the book rubbed me the wrong way, to the point where I wondered just how much of a true Christian Mr. West really was. Recently, I picked it up and basically started where I left off, and my previous judgementalism gave way to a certain admiration. Morris West has not only the wisdom of a man of advanced years but the worldly experience that gives him a valuable perspective to share on such issues as evil, violence, dissent, and death. He has seen things most of us with never see, and this book is all the more enlightening because of that fact. Although not a Catholic like Mr. West is, I share his experience of a life that is centered around the institution of the church, and can appreciate the love/hate relationship one can have with the Body of Christ. Like many, he cries out for a church that values the person above laws and regulations. I look forward in the future to reading some of his fiction (although much of it is out of print and rather hard to get at this time).	2001-07-20
US	52542864	R29I271FT3MMIA	0764421514	864157743	AquaChurch: Essential Leadership Arts for Piloting Your Church in Today's Fluid Culture	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lays out the basics for &quot;doing church&quot; in the 21st Century	Leonard Sweet is definitely the &quot;guru&quot; of post-modern church life. He articulates principles that are essential for guiding the church through the troubled waters of today's society. As much as it is crucial to have a solid foundation of the person of Jesus, the Bible, and tradition, it is also important to value creativity and intuition. Although Sweet gives you the general principles, he stresses that no two churches are alike, and it is futile to attempt to copy even the most successful ones (Willow Creek, for example). A previous reviewer felt that Sweet was excessive in his many examples and illustrations. I don't agree with that assessment, even though, admittedly, I did get a little weary with his constant use of the sailing-ship metaphor (a metaphor which would seem rather anachronistic to a post-modern society). In fact, I'm sure many pastors could find a wealth of sermon illustrations in this book, even though that is not the main purpose. <br />One interesting point that did occur to me while I was reading &quot;AquaChurch&quot; was the fact that, since this book was written a couple of years ago and emphasized the fast-changing nature of society, that society had changed at such a rapid pace that parts of the book were obsolete by the time I read it! Maybe Sweet will update this volume every few years to keep it in print and relevant. Nonetheless, this is a very useful book for all who are in church leadership.	2001-07-17
US	52542864	R4G7RTFPMS9J8	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Another Lewis masterpiece	This brilliant little piece of literature takes only an hour or two to read, but will foster a lifetime of contemplation and thought concerning heaven and hell. What if God gave people in hell (which, in the novel, is a gray, drab, lonely place) a second chance at heaven? Would they take it, or would they desperately hang on to their miserable lives, which is a hell in itself? Lewis, in his &quot;dream&quot;, sees a procession of people who are given that chance and, sadly, hardly any take it. That illustrates what I've always believed about hell: God doesn't send you there, you basically send yourself by rejecting His free gift of salvation. To those &quot;ghosts&quot; in hell, heaven is actually a scary place, at least at first. Most don't want to go any further past the &quot;hard part&quot; to the glories that reside up the &quot;mountain&quot;. Some may get a little tripped up by the rather unorthodox theological implications, but don't let that hinder you. Just enjoy the ride, and let it speak deeply to your spirit.	2001-07-07
US	52542864	R2RHNIJFU8KVK7	0385502176	807837227	Open Secrets: A Spiritual Journey Through a Country Church	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating account of small-town church life	Bored with the Mitford series (as I was)? Unsatisfied by &quot;Velma Still Cooks in Leeway&quot; (ditto)? Truth can often be much more interesting and engaging than fiction, as it is in this case. As a person who takes a great deal of interest in the ministerial life, I found it hard to put this book down. A young, beginning pastor with a PhD in Theology is called to a rural parish in New Cana, Illinois, where most of the church members, whose lives revolve around farming, are related to one another. It's the typical clash of cultures, the educated, citified parson attempting to relate to a largely uneducated congregation of country folks. As they grudgingly learn to accept one another, there are many eventful occurrences, from unwanted pregnancies, open adultery by a young couple whom the pastor offends by using a cuss word, the arrest of an abusive parishoner in the church building, the battle for power with an unscrupulous undertaker, to a rather comic attempt to varnish the sanctuary floor. The final event in Pastor Lischer's ministry at New Cana, the church anniversary picnic which doubles as his farewell, is rather poignant. As he says while watching his little girl ride a pony for the first time that afternoon, &quot;My wife and I each felt a twinge of regret as we watched her and realized that she was losing the sort of community she would not remember and never know again&quot;. May we all experience that sort of community some time in our lives.	2001-07-07
US	52542864	RFRGTESEEFE10	0805421351	261396480	Rich Mullins: An Arrow Pointing to Heaven	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Rich legacy	Not a biography in the strictest sense, although containing much biographical information, this book represents the true legacy of Rich Mullins. It speaks of the things about which he was most passionate (the love of God, detachment from possessions, unconditional acceptance of others, the longing for heaven) and makes God the real focal point. I appreciated the fact that Rich Mullins still struggled daily with sin and was very open about that fact when he ministered, but, like another flawed individual, King David, he was a man after God's own heart. Rich lives on, not only in heaven, but in his music and in the legacy he left behind. He began a work among Native Americans that others will continue. This book and the accompanying CD touched me deeply, and it will touch all but the most hard-hearted.	2001-06-26
US	52542864	R3EICN1BKRYHGK	0195135091	533200031	Hidden Gospels: How the Search for Jesus Lost Its Way	Books	5	29	37	N	N	Exposes the agenda of radical Jesus scholarship	My recent interest in reading books concerning the search for the &quot;Historical Jesus&quot; is rather ironic since I believe I have to go no further than the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John to find the Jesus of history. Today's more radical Jesus scholars, as exemplified by the Jesus Seminar, put very little stock in the canonical gospels (except what is considered part of the imaginary &quot;Q&quot; gospel) and instead appropriate more dubious sources, like the Gospel of Thomas and other apocryphal works, to construct a Jesus more to their liking. Philip Jenkins does a masterful job in bringing these issues to light. He exposes many of the ultra-liberal scholars as being on a par with the most rabid conspiracy theorists. (&quot;Here is the Jesus THEY don't want you to see!&quot;) Of particular interest is the discussion of the media factor, and how popular media latches on to more radical ideas because there is nothing inherently &quot;interesting&quot; about more orthodox ideas about Jesus. Thus, the likes of Crossan, Funk, and Mack get to have their 15 minutes of fame (and greatly increased book sales), while more conventional Bible scholars are mired in the obscurity of academia. Unfortunately, as the radical edge receives more publicity, the mainstream consensus of Jesus scholarhip will have a tendency to drift further to the left. <br />This book is an extremely worthwhile purchase for anyone interested in the modern quest for the historical Jesus as it gives a much needed corrective to the radical left of the Jesus Seminar and their ilk.	2001-06-26
US	52542864	RFIT6X1KRX3PD	1587430096	805917266	Eyes Wide Open: Looking for God in Popular Culture	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Solid treatise on Christianity and culture	Christians are not that much different than non-Christians when it comes to consumption of popular culture. All but the most legalistic watch many of the same movies, listen to the same music, and watch the same TV shows as everyone else. Romanowski realizes this, and with this book (along with others he has written) he analyzes the culture from a Christian perspective and gives the Christian, who is in the world but (hopefully) not of it, valuable tools for being a cultural critic. I would have rated this book higher, but for me it doesn't break a lot of new ground, and the appendices concerning an analysis of the movie &quot;Titanic&quot; could have been better utilized on a movie with more depth and meaning (even though I do admit that, like everyone else, I cried at the end of the movie). On the other hand, you've got to love a book with a chapter entitled &quot;Christians Who Drink Beer&quot; (even though, personally, I don't). Others who haven't read widely in this field like I have would surely give it a higher rating, because it is a very competent, easy to read book on an important subject.	2001-06-26
US	52542864	R24Q8YESRN7D1Q	0786882417	990569510	The Path: Creating Your Mission Statement for Work and for Life	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Your mission, should you decide to accept it...	...is to read this book, do the exercises, and develop a mission statement that fits you. Then, live it out! This is much more than a &quot;self-help&quot; book, this is a book of self-discovery. Find out how God has &quot;wired&quot; you, create a vision for your life, and see what unique way you can benefit humankind. If you're ready for your life to be revolutionized, this is the book that can do it. If I'd have read this book sooner, I'd have given it to every high school and college graduate I know. Of course, &quot;The Path&quot; is not just for graduates, it's for everybody. An excellent, excellent book.	2001-06-17
US	52542864	R3T0895AO8AWSN	0060624833	165064875	Essential Monastic Wisdom: Writings on the Contemplative Life	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Nice monastic quotebook	The &quot;wisdom&quot; here is mostly Benedictine (except for Thomas Merton and a few others), which left me wishing that the editor of this volume would have included more from a wider range of monastic traditions. Nevertheless, there are a lot of good seeds for contemplation and action here, and, after all, Benedict is the one who codified the life of the monastic to begin with. This is definitely a good volume to have on hand.	2001-06-17
US	52542864	R1R6198OUD54BI	0802116868	186377687	Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Positively first rate	The enigmatic, mysterious Bob Dylan: who can really know this guy? Sounes does an excellent job of fleshing out the man behind the music, probably about as good a job as anyone could have done. He balances the personal life of Bob (at least what can be known of his personal life) with his artistic life, and presents a full-bodied, complete picture of the man and the legend. Dylan is a man of contradictions (a born-again Christian who remained sexually promiscuous, a person who would treat people insensitively and then feel badly about it but not enough to apologize, a protest singer who was reluctant to get involved in causes), but that's what makes him Dylan. Although familiar with Dylan's music over the years, plus reading many articles and interviews with him, this is the first book-length biography I have read about him, so I may not have the perspective that others do who have compared this bio to others and have found it lacking, but speaking for myself, I found it fascinating.	2001-06-17
US	52542864	R1DE25W1PMDRY6	1578564719	443005720	What's a Christian to Do with Harry Potter?	Books	4	31	37	N	N	A sane, common-sense approach to a divisive subject	The Harry Potter series has been quite controversial in the Christian community, to say the least. Personally, I have read all four of the books and I found them to be extremely inventive, fascinating, and captivating. Other evangelical Christians regard them as dangerous and evil. Connie Neal takes a very even-handed approach to the Harry Potter saga, being very fair to both sides of the issue while being able to draw some positive values from the series. She examines some of the mythological roots used by J.K. Rowling in constructing these stories, and draws comparisons with the works of C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien. Neal even presents a personal testimony about how she used the Harry Potter books to evangelize and to actually bring someone to Christ! The best thing to do is to read this book, read other books with differing views on the subject, and, with much prayer, make up your own mind. As for me, I can't wait for Book Five!	2001-06-10
US	52542864	R1SD9IVELS4Z8N	0380978466	15433199	This Must Be the Place: The Adventures of Talking Heads in the Twentieth Century	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Watch out, you might get what you're after!	There has never been a group like Talking Heads, and never will be again. Their place is rock history is unique and secure. I just hope in a few years when they get inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame that David and Tina will be on speaking terms again. David Byrne was considered the \\"genius\\" of the group, but, being a red-blooded American male I always had my eye on Tina Weymouth (too bad she hated her stay in Tulsa. Come on, Tina, give Tulsa another chance!)<br />This is a fascinating and riveting history, and it was quite a journey from the humble beginnings at CBGB's and touring with the Ramones (another great band, as appealing in their non-artistry as the Heads were in their artistry) to worldwide acclaim. But there are irritations about the book, also. There is too much space given to people I care little about (Twyla Tharp is a prime example), and the author seems to be overly obsessed, in a negative way, with President Reagan. His fact-checker must have ...forgot to show up, otherwise he would have credited \\"Standing in the Shadows of Love\\" to the Four Tops, not the Supremes, and he would have not assigned Waco to the panhandle of Texas, since it's right on I-35 between Dallas and Austin. All in all, though, this is a pretty cool book and will remind you of the time when people actually made good music.	2001-06-02
US	52542864	RTST6TJ9ONX98	0802806058	912090875	The Parables of the Kingdom	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A playful, breezy exposition of Jesus' shorter parables	Robert Capon likes to play around with Scripture. In the epilogue of this book, he even advocates playing with Scripture. That style of hermeneutics can open up some new vistas of spiritual insight, but it can also be somewhat dangerous. Capon sees these parables as presenting the Kingdom of God as sort of a subversive presence throughout the whole world, demonstrating what he calls &quot;left-handed&quot; power. He skirts dangerously close to the precipice of universalism, stopping just short of saying that everyone in the world will be saved. He does stop short, to be sure, but rather reluctantly. It's interesting how he believes that when Jesus was asked to explain a couple of his parables, he gave less than satisfactory interpretations, which Capon said he did on purpose. Now, we sure wouldn't want to be tied down by Jesus' explanation, would we? <br />The tone of this book is playful and almost jocular. It makes for some entertaining reading. Capon, in some areas, would be considered a conservative (he does accept the supernatural) but he has a rather liberal view of grace. Although I'm not totally comfortable with that, I still recommend this book as a very creative way of getting one to think &quot;outside the box&quot; when it comes to these particular parables. I'm sure I will be reading more of Capon in the future.	2001-05-26
US	52542864	RY887LVG3SKOM	0895262371	905529053	Absolute Power: The Legacy of Corruption in the Clinton-Reno Justice Department	Books	4	46	56	N	N	Factual evidence of an immoral administration	Forget Lewinsky. Even if Monicagate had never happened there is little doubt that the Clinton administration was still the most corrupt and immoral in American history, and what's worse it was aided and abetted by Janet Reno's &quot;Injustice&quot; Department. David Limbaugh lays out the facts in a less incindiary manner than would his brother Rush, but the facts speak loudly for themselves. Everyone will find points of greatest outrage detailed in this book. For Limbaugh it was obviously the campaign finance scandals, which he calls &quot;The Mother of All Scandals&quot;. That was bad enough, but in my opinion the pardoning of the Puero Rican terrorists to help Hillary's campaign for Senate was the most reprehensible of all, because that could actually endanger the lives of innocent citizens. Close behind on the outrage scale is the organized vilification of Ken Starr, the callousness of the Travelgate scandal, and Elian Gonzalez debacle. Of course, Clinton apologists will see this book as another tool of the &quot;vast right-wing conspiracy&quot;, as Slick Willie laughs all the way into private citizenship carrying goods stolen from the White House. All I can say is, Limbaugh certainly didn't make this stuff up, and it's time to take off the blinders.	2001-05-26
US	52542864	R469HWEXYPPQC	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Mere brilliance	No matter how far along you are in your Christian walk (I'm 30+ years into it), or even if you are a &quot;seeker&quot;, just investigating the Christian faith, there is great benefit to be received from this book. Lewis, of course, is a great literary scholar and author, but he is a layman in theological matters, yet he has a better grasp on doctrine and morality than many more learned theologians. Who said theology is just for the theologians anyway? With relentless logic and literary grace Lewis not only builds a solid case for Christianity but equips the believer with analogical paradigms for better understanding his or her own faith. Of course, not everyone will be convinced, but this book has convinced many in the latter half of the 20th century and beyond about the claims of Christ. I don't agree with every point Lewis makes, but the gist of his message is hard to refute.<br />I have to make a comment about Kathleen Norris' Foreword in this edition. She starts out by making the point that &quot;This book begs to be seen in its historical context&quot;. Actually, this book stands on its own better than most without any historical context whatsoever. Having read two books by Norris, I know there are points of disagreement she has with Lewis, and her backhanded way of casting a shadow on the book's message adds nothing and actually detracts. Skip that part and delve right into the masterpiece that is &quot;Mere Christianity&quot;.	2001-05-26
US	52542864	R2GXTB0X0AL1NP	080102241X	452085147	Reel Spirituality: Theology and Film in Dialogue (Engaging Culture)	Books	3	26	28	N	N	A handbook on film criticism from a theological perspective	Despite the rather &quot;punnish&quot; title of the book, this is a thoroughly academic work, and as such it is not what one would call easy reading. Yet, it is enlightening for all who would take time to grasp the concepts presented here. The author advocates first attempting to understand what a movie is trying to convey on its own terms and then reflect upon it theologically. Basic concepts of film criticism are covered, as well as different theological approaches one may take to evaluting films. A good book for those who want to look at movies at a deeper, less superficial level.	2001-05-18
US	52542864	R1R7OLS497DA7R	0805423818	652704835	The Cost of Deception: The Seduction of Modern Myths and Urban Legends	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Calling all Christians--Read this book NOW	I've often told others that Christians are the most gullible people in the world, and I am one! The first two or three times I saw a petition to sign stopping Madeline Murray O'Hair's supposed campaign for eliminating Christian television (about 25 years ago) I thought there might be something to it. When I kept seeing the same petition endless times over the past 25 years, I began to suspect that it might be a hoax. After hearing the &quot;Vanishing Hitchhiker&quot; story (even from the pulpit!) a few times, I became aware that nobody who told this story actually had talked to a person to whom this supposedly happened (it was a friend of my wife's second cousin, or some such thing). Pretty fishy! And the story about the drillers who drilled deep enough to find hell, so to speak, well, that was too ridiculous for me to believe the first time I heard it, although many did and still do. So before you forward that next e-mail message that Aunt Martha sent you about the Satan worshipers at Proctor and Gamble, please read this book. It debunks most of the &quot;urban legends&quot; that have been passed on by well-meaning Christians and others. (Although it does miss one very popular urban legend that is making the rounds right now: have you heard the one about the guy God told to bring the gallon of milk to this stranger's house in the middle of the night?) The author also has some valuable chapters concerning how people over the years have tried to set the date for Christ's return and have attempted to expose the identity of the antichrist. He also discusses the recent Y2K panic that never panned out. <br />The gospel itself seems like foolishness to those who do not believe. There is no need for Christians to put more stumbling-blocks in people's path by perpetuating stories that turn out to be fabrications. I don't mind being a fool for Christ, but there's no use being just plain foolish. All Christians should get this book, and maybe buy a few extra copies to hand out next time someone hands you one of those petitions to sign to keep the atheists from forcing &quot;Touched by an Angel&quot; off the air.	2001-05-16
US	52542864	R32GWT76FWDT4K	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	129	146	N	N	A possible post-apocalyptic scenario--highly recommended	&quot;A Canticle for Leibowitz&quot; chronicles the rebuilding of &quot;civilization&quot; after nuclear holocaust. It has three distinct sections, each separated by hundreds of years, centering around life at a desert monastary named in honor of a very unusual &quot;saint&quot;. Since each section tells its own story, and could be read separately, I'm going to rate each one separately.<br />PART ONE: FIAT HOMO (5 stars) Tipped off by a mysterious old man (could it be Saint Leibowitz himself?), a nervous novice monk discovers an underground chamber that contains some highly significant relics, for which he suffers abuse from a fearful and sadistic abbot. Eventually, he is sent on a dangerous journey to New Rome, under constant threat from primitive nomads. The ending of this section is rather chilling and ironic, much like a Flannery O'Connor short story. <br />PART TWO: FIAT LUX (3 stars) This is the only section among the three that really is not able to stand alone as a self-contained story with a definitive ending. I suppose this could be considered the &quot;Empire Strikes Back&quot; of the &quot;trilogy&quot;. The basis of this part is the mistrust that exists between religion and science, when a scholar visits the monastary to study the ancient Leibowitz documents and finds, to his astonishment, one of the monks has invented (or re-invented) the electric light. The old man reappears (remember, this is hundreds of years after the first story) as a rather significant player in this section, but, ultimately, this story is merely transitional.<br />PART THREE: FIAT VOLUNTUAS TUA (5 stars) I wanted to give this part 6 or 7 stars, but that would be cheating. This last section is absolutely brilliant. Many hundreds of years later, the inevitable happens, proving that mankind apparently never learns from its mistakes. The very wise abbot (it is interesting how each abbot in these stories is wiser than the last) sees the handwriting on the wall and commissions a groupof monastics, accompanied by the relics of Saint Leibowitz, to escape by rocket ship to a distant planet to guarantee the perpetuity of the order and, indeed, of the faith itself. Meanwhile, the abbot and a medical doctor grapple over the appropriateness of euthanasia for suffering victims of the fallout. (Any groups or classes that might be discussing the subject of mercy killing would benefit greatly by reading this section since it lays out the opposing arguments very clearly and forcefully). Although the ultimate disaster takes place, hope is still found in the most unlikely person: a mutant, two-headed woman. And so we begin again.<br />This book takes a very positive, optimistic view of religion, while it is pessimistic about mankind in general. The stories included here work on many levels, and the book as a whole makes for an enlightening reading experience.	2001-05-15
US	52542864	R30UUDSR24EB2K	0785245502	133273938	Century Of The Holy Spirit 100 Years Of Pentecostal And Charismatic Renewal, 1901-2001	Books	3	51	55	N	N	Good, but less than comprehensive	The Pentecostal/Charismatic phenomenon has turned out to be the most influential, far-reaching movement in Christianity in the 20th century. What once was considered a backwoods, wrong-side-of-the-tracks brand of religion has thrust itself into the mainstream, touching every Christian tradition from Roman Catholicism to mainline Protestantism to Orthodoxy, and everything in between. This book chronicles the rise of Pentecostalism, from its foundations in the late 19th-century holiness churches, through the Azusa Street revival, the formation of Pentecostal denominations, the unfortunate split between African-Americans and white Pentecostals, the postwar popularity of traveling healing evangelists, the permutation of Pentecostalism into the neo-Pentecostal or Charismatic movement as the Holy Spirit entered mainline churches, the explosion of TV evangelism, to the end of the 20th century where Pentecostalism is a true worldwide phenomenon. This is anything but a dry historical document; it seems as alive and vibrant in many places as the movement it covers. It deals with theological issues such as the controversy among the &quot;second-blessing&quot; and &quot;third-blessing&quot; advocates, the even more controversial &quot;Oneness&quot; doctrine, and other beliefs that both characterized and often divided Pentecostalism. Another controversy the book addresses is the Shepherding or Discipleship movement. Also controversial is the prosperity gospel of today's TV evangelists, although the book fails to acknowledge that it is, indeed, controversial (as fair and even-handed as this book is, I don't really expect them to say the health-and-wealth message is heretical, even though, in my opinion, it is). <br />One criticism I have of this book is that is gives very scant, almost non-existant coverage of significant movements such as the Vineyard. Even though there is more emphasis on healing, prophecy, and words of knowledge than there is on speaking in tongues, and Vineyard leaders eschew the Charismatic label, they still belong firmly in the Charismatic movement. Founder John Wimber is mentioned a few times in passing, but as influential as the Vineyard has, I think a little historical coverage there is in order, including Wimber's &quot;Signs and Wonders&quot; course at Fuller Theological Seminary, which had great impact on many. Totally ignored is the modern apostolic/prophetic stream led by such figures as Rick Joyner, Francis Frangipane, and Paul Cain. The popularity of the contemporary &quot;praise and worship&quot; music can also be traced directly to the Charismatic movement, as this is one phenomenon that has spread even to non-Charismatic churches, yet that also gets barely a mention. This lack of comprehensiveness blunted my enthusiasm for this book.<br />I owe a lot to the Charismatic movement, and the Pentecostal movement that spawned it. If not for the filling of the Holy Spirit in my own life, I doubt that I would be as fervent a Christian today. It is strange that, as theologically correct as I attempt to be, this movement that influenced me so much is based on what I regard as a doctrinal fallacy, namely that tongues is always the &quot;evidence&quot; of being baptized in the Holy Spirit. As much as I've tried to distance myself from the Charismatic movement in the past year or so because of some of the excesses and bad theology, I still have to admit that I am Charismatic to the core and always will be. That's one reason I found this book so interesting. It's part of my &quot;roots&quot;, so to speak, and even if everyone doesn't share my experience, I still think that modern-day believers of every stripe will find this book quite enlightening.	2001-05-11
US	52542864	R1HCDKVRMMUHZJ	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	4	39	47	N	N	Sexual purity: the impossible dream?	Hey, with all the sensual bombardment from the media, the sexy clothing and increasing lack of modesty that adorns women today, and the easy availability of pornography, just what do you expect from a red-blooded, American male, anyway? God expects sexual purity, and forget the macho excuses. What's a guy to do, with so many temptations on one hand and God's standards on the other hand? It seems like we're stuck between a rock and a hard place. This book gives very practical, step-by-step advice on coming out of the jungle of sexual temptation. Although this is written from the standpoint of married men, singles, like myself, can also benefit (even though we lack that wife to bear the focus of our full sexual attention). I particularly liked the sections of the book written from the women's point of view. It's very enlightening to see how men and women are &quot;wired&quot; differently, and how disgusted females actually get at the uncontrolled male sex drive! Is maintaining sexual purity in both mind and actions impossible for the male of the species? This book says no, and it has the solutions. I would say this book is essential for every Christian man.	2001-05-11
US	52542864	R1W3AM60ST5BBU	006067539X	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	3	23	43	N	N	Here he stands, there he falls	As an adamant non-fan of Bishop Spong I still have to give the devil his due, so to speak. He has presented the world with a very interesting and informative autobiography. I even have genuine admiration for his early career, when he battled the racism that was part and parcel of the Southern culture in which he was raised and where he served in the priesthood before his elevation to bishop of Newark. In those days, he just seemed to be not any more liberal, in a theological sense, than your average mainline seminary graduate. <br />Spurred on by positive reinforcement from his admiring parishoners, he always sought to bring critical scholarship into the Sunday School classroom, which later he expanded into his book writing career. In the meantime his &quot;spiritual&quot; journey seemed to take him farther and farther to the liberal fringe, aided by his readings of John A.T. Robinson and, later, even more radical theologians like an atheist New Testament scholar named Michael Goulder. Of course, Spong's intellectual arrogance pops up throughout the book as he continually implies that &quot;thinking&quot; Christians will always arrive at the same conclusions he does in his closed, anti-supernatural view of the universe. He especially delights in demeaning Roman Catholicism and conservatives of any stripe, including a mean-spirited and unneccessary attack on conservative Anglican New Testament scholar Tom Wright. Calling Wright a propagandist rather than a scholar, Spong apparently doesn't realize that the same appellation could be applied to himself.<br />The bishop's personal life was rather traumatic as he dealt with his first wife's mental illness. He had to deal with the guilt of not being able to give her his full attention, and deeply regrets the way she died virtually alone. His later career seemed to be consumed by the struggle for getting practicing homosexuals approved for ordination to the ministry. Meanwhile, his publishing career continues to flourish to this day as he attempts to make Christianity safe for non-believers. <br />Not having any background in Episcopalian culture, I found the political and social milieu of this upwardly-mobile denomination quite fascinating. As Spong was being wined and dined by his sophisticated admirers, somehow he got the notion into his head that he could reform Christianity into his own image. Thankfully, Spong's &quot;reformation&quot; is doomed to failure (if anyone bothers to check, it's not the liberal churches that are growing!) Of course, his message will resonate with some, like a previous reviewer who compared him to none other than Jesus! To me and many others, Spong is more like Satan than Jesus, but even an autobiography of Satan would be worth reading.	2001-05-08
US	52542864	R33XGUV66B7BEF	1929478259	812147649	The Road to Glory	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The story of an extraordinary young man	Josh Heupel is a cut above your average athlete, not in terms of physical ability, but in hard work, dedication, and faith. He was the biggest key (along with Coach Bob Stoops and his staff) to the resurrection of the Oklahoma Sooner football program to national glory. As a diehard Sooner fan, I found this a very enjoyable read. As a Christian, I found it inspirational. Although Josh is listed as the author, it's clear that most of this book was written by his collaborator, who interviewed friends and family to get the full picture of this remarkable young man. There are a few chapters penned by Heupel, including a message he gave at church the Sunday morning following the Big 12 Championship game. The last section details each game of the Sooners championship run, which admittedly will probably only be of interest to Sooner fans (me!) I would like to have seen Josh talk more about the day-to-day experiences, the interaction with teammates and coaches, that type of thing. Maybe it will be up to someone else to write that book. I recommend this book for young people, Oklahoma Sooner fans, and Miami Dolphin fans (the Dolphins drafted him in the sixth round, and if they read this, they'll have no doubt that Heupel will be a great player for them in the NFL). Josh Heupel will be a success in whatever he does, and this book shows you why.	2001-05-01
US	52542864	R2OJWP37F9FD9U	0785267840	783071801	Shadows of Things to Come: A Prophetic Look at God's Unfolding Plan	Books	2	19	31	N	N	Why buy this book? Only the &quot;shadow&quot; knows.	Rick Joyner makes a major interpretive mistake early on in this book when he uses the non-canonical Epistle of Barnabas to construct a prophetic timeline using the six days of creation in Genesis to correspond to thousand-year periods. Yes, of course, 2nd Peter says that one day is as a thousand years to God, but he was speaking SYMBOLICALLY, not literally. For an example of this tortured allegorizing, here's a quote from the book: &quot;One day five, God created the 'great sea monsters.' During this one-thousand-year period, the powerful and monstrous religions of the world were formed that were to rule the 'seas' or peoples, such as Islam, Hinduism, and some of the powerful and dominating institutions of Christianity that would devour so many.&quot; Is he giving God credit/blame for creating what he would surely regard as false religions? Joyner proceeds to map out a rather selective survey of Christian history to support his particular agenda.<br />To give Joyner a little credit, he feels it is important for Christians to know church history. I would agree. Charismatic Christians, especially, seem to have a profound disinterest in anything but the early church and 20th-century Pentecostalism, skipping everything in between. Unfortunately, Joyner seems to skip a lot in between, himself. He at least admits as much, and promises some follow-up volumes. A better suggestion than getting this book and waiting for the sequels would be to get a good, comprehensive history like &quot;The Story of Christianity&quot; by Justo Gonzalez. <br />Devotees of Joyner and his quarterly publication &quot;The Morning Star Journal&quot; will notice familiar themes emerging: re-establishment of the apostolic ministry, the great revival that is surely coming (in his opinion), and the like. He is particularly interested in the history of revivals, and the story of Sam Jones who evangelized Nashville in the late 1800's is an interesting, not-so-well-known story. Most of the other accountsI have read elsewhere. But Joyner occasionally throws in some real oddball opinions. Did you know that Satan named the planet Venus, for example? Hmmm.<br />I read this book because I used to be a regular reader of Joyner's &quot;Morning Star Journal&quot; and had read some of his other visionary works like &quot;The Final Quest&quot;. I fellowshipped with a group of people who were really into the &quot;prophetic&quot;, and even identified myself with those teachings for awhile. About a year ago, I walked away from all that because I felt there was excessive emphasis placed on dreams, visions, and &quot;prophetic words&quot; and not enough on the Word of God. I got tired of always looking for the &quot;next big thing&quot; and the coming &quot;great revival&quot; that never came. I bought this book because I wanted to see if there was still something in me that identified with that particular strain of teaching. Guess what? There wasn't. Now, this book is not without value, but I'm not even sure fans of Rick Joyner will be all that crazy about it, since it is bereft of his personal dreams and supernatuaral visions, and it is a little disjointed. But he certainly uses Christian history to support his own vision for the future, which may or may not come to pass.	2001-04-22
US	52542864	R34C25RO1KR95Y	0827223242	944640666	The Mutuality of Care	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Often thought-provoking and sometimes just plain provoking!	It was very difficult for me to decide how many &quot;stars&quot; to give this book. I should start by saying that Dr. SteinhoffSmith and I are worlds apart theologically and politically (and if you think politics wouldn't matter in a book such as this, the author makes sure you realize that in his estimation politics are crucial in the subject of care). Although I have never met Dr. SteinhoffSmith, I have known something of his reputation, having lived in Enid, Oklahoma about the same time he did and now living in Tulsa where he teaches at Phillips Theological Seminary. This book is the text for one of the classes he teaches at the seminary, and I happened to find it on sale for a buck, so I decided to pick it up, and I found myself rather fascinated with it, even though there were many points of disagreement, some of which I will make clear.<br />SteinhoffSmith's basic premise is this: the usually accepted model of a professional counselor or pastor, with all the knowledge and power invested in him, condescending to counsel a person in need causes suffering in that person because said person is regarded as fundamentally defective and their participation and agency in the healing process is being denied. The author proposes mutuality in care, where both the &quot;counselor&quot;, with his or her strengths, gifts, weaknesses, and needs, and the &quot;counselee&quot;, also with strengths, gifts, weaknesses, and needs, can teach and learn from each other in the care relationship. To simplify, they function in a mutual friendship rather than an unequal professional/layperson relationship. This basic premise makes a lot of sense, and really struck a chord in me as being very workable and very desirable. The meat of this book, to me, is in the case studies presented by the author (much of the theorizing, with discussions of &quot;cracks&quot; and &quot;triads&quot; and the like is a little difficult to understand, so if you just read the case studies and the accompanyinganalyses, I think you will sufficiently get the point). <br />SteinhoffSmith's personal stories are very instructive (even though he squeezes many pages worth of significance out of what must have been about a one- or two- minute discussion with a student about &quot;counseling skills&quot;). His efforts at building a &quot;community&quot; of poor African-Americans, many who were disabled or chemically dependent, resulted in a revolution of his thinking about care (the &quot;mutuality&quot; aspect). The transformation of his relationship with one particular person, Johnny C., from a helper relationship to a friendship, is very touching and instructive. Other case studies not involving SteinhoffSmith directly are helpful in this discussion as well.<br />However, I have some fundamental problems with this book. One seemingly small annoyance that irritated me to no end was his use of the word &quot;christian&quot; in the lower case, as sort of a political statement being part of a group that has been historically arrogant and abusive to various groups. The author needs to come to terms with his liberal self-hatred, because it's really tiring. All other religious groups are capitalized, I guess because none of them have ever in their history been arrogant or abusive to anyone. Another problem area for me is his interpretation of the encounter between Jesus and the Syrophoenician woman. I believe Jesus was being &quot;playful&quot; with the woman and was indeed testing her faith by his statement that the children's food should not be fed to the dogs. I have problems with a Jesus that is portrayed as simply irritable, cruel, and flat-out wrong, and he needed this woman to turn the tables on him, beat him at his own game, and teach him a lesson. My christology does not allow for the &quot;man without sin&quot; to sin. Apparently SteinhoffSmith's christology does, because he keeps referring to this story over and over again. Finally, his fictionalized case study of ChristChurch is rather problematic for me. He makes up a character, Les Nodale, who, if I was a pastor and he was a member of my church, I'd be afraid to preach anything at all with the fear of offending him. Preaching about sacrifice is portrayed as almost sinful because of Les Nodale's experiences. Well, I may not have agreed with the sermon either, but it was just one sermon by a guest speaker, so, hey, I don't mean to be insensitive, but just blow it off. I've heard many sermons that have disturbed me, but I moved on. Another sermon by his pastor about tithing also bent him out of shape. As the coup-de-grace, he gets offended that Christians (excuse me, christians) are invited to partake of the Lord's Supper to the exclusion of everyone else. With the symbolism of Christ's body being broken and his blood being poured out for the forgiveness of sins being the basis of communion, it would take a deconstruction of that very basis to encourage those who could not accept or understand (&quot;discern the Body of Christ&quot; if you will) the meaning of the Lord's Supper to participate. Inclusivism based on political correctness rather than Biblical witness is shaky ground on which to stand when it comes to the church.<br />In summary, SteinhoffSmith has written a book that can be valuable in care-based settings, but is rather dangerous theologically. I would like to see another author take his premise and develop it in a more evangelical fashion, rather than setting the whole issue in a milieu of liberation theology and political correctness.	2001-04-17
US	52542864	R2AQMF5MQS4XD3	0312853238	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic read, not only for sci-fi fans but for everyone	Let me say off the top that I am not a science fiction aficianado. The last sci-fi book I read was &quot;Dune&quot;, and that was 25 years ago (and I read only halfway through that one, to boot). But this is a great story on a purely human level. Ender, the third child in the Wiggin family (which makes him a societal outcast right at the start due to population control laws), just might be the one with the right temperment and intelligence to someday command the fleet that will rid the universe of the feared race known as the Buggers. Ender is taken from his family, trained and, some could argue, psychologically abused and exploited at a special battle school. He is tested up to and beyond any expected limits. Meanwhile, back home, his abusive brother Peter and beloved sister Valentine assert political influence over the &quot;net&quot; (keep in mind this book was written in 1977, well before the proliferation of the internet as we know it today). Will young Ender be the one to make it through to the end when all others have failed?<br />This book grabbed me and didn't let me go until the very end. I detected a strong spiritual element to this book, with a surprising theme of redemption and forgiveness in the final chapter. There are so many levels to &quot;Ender's Game&quot; that I could write a whole book about the book itself, but all I can do is advise all who read this review to beg, borrow, or buy a copy right away and be amazed at its sheer brilliance.	2001-04-15
US	52542864	R1N75DU5EFHUK3	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	122	128	N	N	Inspiring...IF you place it in its proper perspective	I don't necessarily buy Christian books because they are best-sellers. Much of what sells is just &quot;Pop Religion&quot;, which I differentiate from true Christianity. But I took notice when I saw that this book was being listed on the &quot;secular&quot; best-seller list right behind that Cheese book, so I decided to take the plunge since the book is relatively inexpensive.<br />One thing I appreciate about &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot; is that it spotlights a scripture that 99 out of 100 Bible readers totally miss. I was a bit wary at first, because the prayer starts out as a &quot;Bless Me&quot; prayer, and could be contstrued as being rather selfish. But the author makes clear that asking for God's blessing in this case is not a thinly-veiled get-rich-quick idea. It's important to allow God to bless you the way HE wants to bless you. Of course, that is just the first point of the prayer, there are three more to follow. If nothing else, it will help you get over any guilt you may have about praying for yourself. HOWEVER...<br />Don't fall into the trap that this prayer is the be-all and end-all when it comes to praying. After all, when the disciples asked Jesus to teach them to pray, He didn't say &quot;Well, let me tell you about a little prayer by a guy named Jabez...&quot; It can certainly be incorporated into your daily time of prayer, but if the prayer of Jabez is ALL you ever pray, then yes, it becomes extremely selfish. There are many prayers in and outside the Bible that can be used as well, not to mention your own spontaneous prayers, for others as well as yourself. And this is not to be used as some kind of Christian mantra. In short, this is a pretty good little book, but keep it in perspective to the whole of your devotional life.	2001-04-11
US	52542864	R1HN323PPI5TDZ	0736901604	169250293	Prayer and the Art of Volkswagen Maintenance	Books	5	2	4	N	N	On the road to a deeper faith	This book is not only about the journey of a couple of guys from Houston to Oregon in a beat-up old VW van. It is a spiritual journey, as well, from a rather theoretical type of Christianity to a really deep relationship with God. All the fun, the trials and tribulations, and the camraderie contribute to a great story, yes, but there are spiritual issues here that resonate very much with me, and, I suspect, many Christians. I don't know how many liberties the author took with what actually happened, but this book is 100% real. It's definitely one of the top two or three books I've read in the past year, and, in a more perfect world, would be a best-seller.	2001-04-11
US	52542864	RG6NI11PWBFV1	1569550603	936056723	Finding God in Unexpected Places	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Great collection of essays	First of all, I like the title of this book. So many people think that God is only present in church or at meetings where miraculous, supernatural things occur. Philip Yancey has found the presence of God in many places, from the squalor and oppression of Chilean prisons to the spiritual and moral neediness of post-Soviet Russia; from the wonders of nature to the basement from which he writes his books; from the writings of Shakespeare to the life of a little-known servant of God who lives to minister to the poor. Plus, his discussion of grace and forgiveness in chapters 34 and 35 is as good as I've read on some tough issues. Any book by Philip Yancey is not to be missed, and this collection is one I'll be going back to again and again.	2001-04-11
US	52542864	RKFGOZ55YM1M8	0609806882	526808147	Books of the Century: A Hundred Years of Authors, Ideas, and Literature	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A treasure trove for book lovers	Do you ever wonder how some of the most highly regarded and influential books of the century were reviewed when they were first released, without the benefit of hindsight? This book, a collection from the New York Times Book Review, gives you the answer. It's a tribute to the reviewers that they were often right on the money in their evaluations (like the reviews on &quot;Ulysses&quot;, &quot;The Grapes of Wrath&quot;, &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;, etc.). It's also kind of a hoot to read the &quot;Oops!&quot; reviews, where they dowgraded books like &quot;Catch-22&quot; and &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; when they first came out. There is a lot of fascinating reading here. I just wish it were more comprehensive, which may not be realistic on my part, since that would mean about a 10,000 page book. But for what this book sets out to do, it succeeds with flying colors.<br />I would suggest that all who are interested in obtaining this book put it in your &quot;Shopping Cart&quot; IMMEDIATELY, because if you come back later and put &quot;Books of the Century&quot; in the search engine, it will inexplicably bring up a bunch of books about architecture. HUHHH?? C'mon, Amazon, let's tweak that search engine a little here!!	2001-04-04
US	52542864	R1AYPAI4VDAR0F	0060608765	989291643	Meaning of Jesus, The	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Good intro to contemporary Jesus scholarship	Who was Jesus? From a Christian perspective, there is no more important question than this. &quot;The Meaning of Jesus: Two Visions&quot; presents perspectives from two Bible scholars, one more &quot;conservative&quot; (Wright) and one more &quot;liberal&quot; (Borg). It would, of course, be a mistake to assume that Wright gives THE definitive conservative view and Borg gives THE definitive liberal view, but it nonetheless is a good starting point for establishing opposing arguments. As an evangelical, Wright's perspectives resonate much more with me than Borg's do, but I learned much from both scholars (somewhat surprising given my total disdain of the Jesus Seminar, of which Borg is a prominent participant). <br />Borg's foundational categories of Jesus' identity (Spirit person, healer, wisdom teacher, social prophet, and movement initiator) are drawn more from a comparative religions standpoint, while Wright's categories (messiah, prophet of the Kingdom of God, Son of God, etc.) are derived from the Jewish context, which was the world in which Jesus operated. Borg is correct when he proposes, in the final chapter, that these two sets of categories need not conflict, but can actually merge together to present a coherent picture of Jesus. But the fundamental difference in Borg's and Wright's arguments boils down to the historicity of the Scriptures, the Gospels in particular. Borg sees much of the biblical record as being &quot;history metaphorized&quot;. Whether the events recorded (Jesus walking on water, feeding the 5,000 with 5 loaves and 2 fishes, even Jesus' bodily resurrection) are actually historical is of secondary importance to Borg. He believes that just because something didn't happen doesn't make it untrue. Astonishingly, he seems to regard what one &quot;believes&quot; as relatively unimportant in the Christian life. What's important to Borg is relationship with God. But how can you have a relationship with God if you don't believe certain things? Belief is crucial in any relationship with God. To me, Borg misses the mark by a mile here. He sees the Bible (and Christian tradition) as a lens by which to see God, and, after all, you must believe in God, not in the lens. But if the lens is distorted in some way, how do we know what we are seeing through it is really God?<br />Wright takes a more conservative view. He has no problem coming around to the historicity of the Bible (at least for the most part) and rightly believes that one can derive rich metaphorical meaning from actual historical events (particularly the symbolic actions of Jesus). Although Wright's scholarship is more to my personal liking, he still falls a little short in some areas. One example: he seems to wimp out on the issue of the Second Coming. His discussion of eschatology leaves much unclear in my mind. <br />Much of the value of this book derives not only from the elucidation of two major viewpoints concerning Jesus, but the civil tone in which the &quot;debate&quot; is conducted. I'd like to see a face-to-face debate between these two sometime. It would be very enlightening, much like this book.	2001-04-01
US	52542864	R19U4CE5RW7I3X	0805209999	969973930	The Trial: A New Translation Based on the Restored Text (The Schocken Kafka Library)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A chilling nightmare in a world of absurdities	A man named Josef K. (often just referred to as K., short for Kafka perhaps?) is arrested for reasons never explained to him (or the reader, for that matter), but still allowed to live a normal (?) life. Not only is his crime never explained, but the authority by which the arrest took place is never given. The title of the book is ironic, because there never is an actual &quot;trial&quot;. He is told to report the following Sunday, but never given the specific time or place, and when he finds the location (a very unlikely location, in a huge, labyrinthine tenement) K. is informed that he is late, and nothing is resolved. During the course of the book, it seems like almost everyone he meets is connected with the court in some way (even the annoying young girls that bother him on his way to see the court painter), but even the influential people are unable to exert their influence in any meaningful way. The ending of the novel is somewhat shocking, but not really surprising.<br />Josef K. represents much of humankind in general. Most of us have that vague feeling that we have done something wrong but actually cannot pinpoint what it is. There is a general feeling of guilt from what theologians might call &quot;Original Sin&quot;. The trial to which K. is subjected takes place in his very soul. Franz Kafka was not a religious man, but he knew that universal feeling of guilt, and, in my amateur opinion, &quot;The Trial&quot; was Kafka's way of expounding on that guilt. Of course, that is only one level of meaning one could gain from this novel. The fact that the book works at so many levels is why many consider it a classic. It's not the best book ever written, but it is certainly not a waste of time, especially to those who take time to compehend Kafka's nightmarish vision.	2001-03-31
US	52542864	R1BRQUUHWN3C83	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	For ages 9-12 my foot! For ages 9-99 is more like it!	I've known that this book has been around for a long time now, but finally, at age 44, I decided to buy a copy and read it. This is such a rich book that it is worthy of re-reading many times. Although set in a fantasy/sci-fi milieu, it speaks of adolescent angst, the destructiveness of gossip, the deception of appearances, the cosmic battle between good and evil, the malaise of rigid conformity, and most of all, the power of love, with a good dose of Christian sprituality thrown in (albeit with some universalistic overtones). If you don't want to read it for all this deep insight, just read it because it's a great book, I don't care how old you are!	2001-03-25
US	52542864	R3KO29KVFF25TJ	0877790426	615146603	Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A must-have for all lovers of literature	This is an informative and interesting volume, equally valuable for research or just simply browsing. The entries are fairly brief, but serve as a good springboard for further investigation if one so desires. The important authors, works, and literary terms are all here. Truly a useful reference tool.	2001-03-25
US	52542864	R2Y0X27BYLXFRN	0736902813	48775323	Ccm Presents: The 100 Greatest Albums in Christian Music	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Essential for all CCM buffs	OK, we have a problem here. No way that Amy Grant's &quot;Lead Me On&quot; is the #1 greatest Christian album of all time. In her wildest dreams she never put out anything as good as Leslie Phillips' &quot;The Turning&quot; (which is #8). In fact, Amy's best album IMHO, &quot;Unguarded&quot;, didn't even make the list. My pick for the best CCM album of all time is Randy Stonehill's &quot;Welcome to Paradise&quot;, which made #13. If you just hear it once, you'll agree with me. I'm sure of that!<br />Of course, my disagreements with the selections, and the order thereof, does not detract from the value of this book one iota. The very purpose of a book like this is to provoke discussion, awareness, and appreciation of the subject matter. And the editors of CCM Magazine know this subject backwards and forwards. The write-ups on these albums whet one's appetite to track down and purchase some of these fine recordings. Unfortunately, some are out of print (just try to find the album at #4, &quot;Second Hand&quot; by Mark Heard. I know some of you are saying &quot;Mark who?&quot;). The intro makes it clear that these aren't just critical favorites, but popular impact is also taken into consideration, therefore these are the &quot;Greatest&quot; as opposed to the &quot;Best&quot;. That's how, for example, &quot;The Champion&quot; by Carman made the list (at #99), because if you've read CCM Magazine over the years, you know the critics don't exactly have a love affair going with Carman, which is made fairly clear in the book as well. <br />I believe one of the most interesting sections comes at the end where each contributor gets to list some of their favorites that didn't make the final cut. Maybe it would have been informative to make it a Top 200. Even then, some of the personal favorites of yours and mine would probably be left off. Oh, well, this book is still great for anyone wanting to build a definitive CCM collection or to fill in the gaps of their existing collection. Or to hope and pray that someday all of these musical offerings will be available once more.	2001-03-25
US	52542864	R19MSUGP0UBC67	0385148038	840750121	The Wounded Healer: Ministry in Contemporary Society	Books	4	22	26	N	N	A paradigm for ministry in the modern world	What does it mean to be a minister (a healer, if you will) in the world of today, to a rootless generation, to people who suffer loneliness and alienation? Henri Nouwen proposed that the wounds of the &quot;wounded healer&quot; can be a source of healing for others. Although this is a short book, it is very profound, and I'm not sure I totally grasped everything Nouwen was trying to say. He moves from the very practical third chapter (a case study of a one-on-one encounter between a clinical pastoral trainee and a lonely dying patient) to the rather esoteric fourth chapter (focusing on the wounded healer) which could have used more practical illustrations. This is a book that probably needs to be read several times, but it can be extremely valuable for the minister, and for everyone else.	2001-03-18
US	52542864	R3L4CDWFVHICLO	0449911543	370928266	The Chosen (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	85	90	N	N	Friendship that transcends all differences	This is a story of friendship, a friendship that is formed between two Jewish boys (of differenct sects) under the most unusual circumstances. One boy, Danny, destined to be a tzaddik, a rabbi to the Hasidic community, is raised by his rabbi father who communicates to Danny only during study of the Torah. The other boy, Reuven, from a less strict Jewish sect, becomes more than a friend, actually more like a buffer or a liason between Danny and his father. Their friendship grows, is torn apart and then mended, leading to the emotional final chapter, as their true destinies begin to take shape.<br />Chaim Potok has become one of my favorite authors. This is the third book of his that I have read this year, and, as a Christian, his novels give me great insight into modern day Judaism. His books are not only informative, but brilliant, heartbreaking, and compassionate. Everyone with any kind of religious bent at all, or even the non-religious, should read his work. I'll guarantee that you will be moved.	2001-03-18
US	52542864	RBSTUH9V4326B	0060670886	386922705	The Greatest Psychologist Who Ever Lived: Jesus and the Wisdom of the Soul	Books	2	18	40	N	N	An unconvincing job of proof-texting	I do agree that Jesus is the greatest psychologist who ever lived, because he knew people better than anyone in history, plus, as Dallas Willard has said in his writings, Jesus is the smartest person who ever lived. So that would make him the greatest psychologist. Unfortunately, this book falls short in proving that. It takes (mostly) fragments of Jesus' teaching out of context to attempt to prove that Jesus was in tune with late 20th-century psychological thought. Of course, psychology is an ever-changing science, so sound theory in that area today could easily be disproved tomorrow. Jesus is presented in this book as a guy in touch with his feelings, so we get the touchy-feely Jesus, as opposed to the biblical Jesus who said he only did what he saw his Father doing. Another fault of this book is that it seems, in a very subtle way, to promote the idea of a therapy-dependent society. After all, relationships are important, and the most important one, next to God, of course, is the relationship with the guy charging you $150 an hour to listen to your problems. Don't get me wrong, this book is not without value. If nothing else, it was informative concerning more recent developments in psychological theory. But I don't think psychological theory was what Jesus had in mind when he was doing most of his teaching.	2001-03-08
US	52542864	R1U24WPYC37LPG	0886878624	866644879	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2001	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Everyone should have a copy	This is a great reference book not only just to have on hand but to browse through. I'll guarantee every time you do you'll learn something new. Whether you need info on other countries, past presidents, notable entertainers of the past and present, colleges and universities, agriculture, or if you just would like a handy copy of the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution, you've got it all right here. Only complaint is that the print's too small, so I'll just give it 4.999999 stars. Heck, just round it up to 5.	2001-03-08
US	52542864	R3V73GPWII40XQ	1576736792	39938678	Lord Foulgrin's Letters	Books	5	13	15	N	N	&quot;Screwtape&quot; for the new millenium	I originally had no intention of buying this book, first because it looked like a blatant rip-off of C.S. Lewis' classic &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot;, and second because I was not too crazy about a previous novel written by this author. After looking at the book in a Christian bookstore, I saw it was in a little different format than &quot;Screwtape&quot;, plus it was a very attractive book to look at, so I took the bait. And, Randy Alcorn, if you're reading this review, I repent of my previous attitude, because this book is a winner in every way. <br />Unlike &quot;Screwtape&quot;, &quot;Lord Foulgrin's Letters&quot; alternates between the correspondence from Foulgrin to his apprentice demon, Squaltaint, and the earthly activities of Jordan Fletcher, the human to which Squaltaint has been assigned. In the beginning, I wondered why someone as spiritually bankrupt as Jordan Fletcher even needed his own personal tempter (I guess that's why an underling was assigned the job), but soon enough, despite Squaltaint's best efforts and Foulgrin's best advice, Jordan begins to move toward a greater spiritual awareness, thanks to the witness of one of the friends with whom he plays basketball regularly. In Foulgrin's correspondence, the author covers all the bases as far as the tricks of the devil are concerned. In giving a glimpse into the spiritual realm, the book reminds me a little bit of Frank Peretti's novels. But the practicality of this book makes it far more valuable than your average work of fiction, for it increases awareness of the traps that Satan's henchmen can put in one's path. Plus, there are some interesting twists at the end. All in all, a stellar effort.	2001-03-08
US	52542864	R1ZJR89DN33XBG	0801063590	308038073	How to Read a Christian Book	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Scope of book goes far beyond the title	Let's face it. 80% of what is offered in Christian bookstores is useless drivel or worse. Remember the glut of so-called Christian &quot;Y2K paranoia&quot; books? McKenna's book concerns not just how to read a Christian book, but how to select one and how to build a solid Christian library. The appendices, which consist of several booklists, both religious and secular, are worth the price of the book. For Christians who want to get serious about their reading, a very workable three-year reading plan is offered, with books in various genres of Christian writing. Unfortunately, Christian fiction and poetry is given short shrift here. This book is a very quick read and is a valuable addition to any Christian reader's library.	2001-03-02
US	52542864	RW9A7FGA2Y2N9	0310228638	937034936	If You Want to Walk on Water, You've Got to Get Out of the Boat	Books	5	120	122	N	N	Warning: This book could change your life!	This is a book for people like me: feeling stuck in a job you hate, believing that God has called you to much more than what you are doing, but afraid to leave the &quot;security&quot; of the life you have built for yourself. In other words, for whatever reason, you're a &quot;boat potato!&quot; Using the familiar Biblical story of Jesus walking on the water and Peter walking out to him (at least until he saw the wind and the waves!), Ortberg, in his entertaining, engaging style, encourages you to overcome your fears, embrace God's call, and trust that God will work through you to do great things you could not do on your own. Between this book and his previous book, &quot;The Life You've Always Wanted&quot;, John Ortberg is proving to be one of the top Christian writers on the scene today. You can't afford not to read this book!	2001-02-22
US	52542864	R2QOAH8VSVLMUI	0449001156	388376334	The Gift of Asher Lev	Books	4	33	33	N	N	What is the gift of Asher Lev?	Before I read this book, having read its superlative predecessor &quot;My Name is Asher Lev&quot;, I would have said that the title refers to Asher Lev's incredible artistic talent. After finishing the book, I realized it was referring to something much more precious, more along the lines of the gift Abraham was asked to sacrifice on the altar. As a grown Asher revisits Brooklyn with his family on the occasion of the death of his uncle, he not only has to confront his past, but his present and future as well. Not only his future, in fact, but the future of the entire Jewish sect in which he was raised. The conflict between his art and his religion is brought into a much sharper, more painful inner battle than even displayed in the first book.<br />This sequel is less straightforward than the first novel. There are more flashbacks, hallucinations (or are they?), riddles, and supernatural occurrences here. Sometimes the book seems to wander a little bit, just like Asher wandered the streets of Paris for awhile. It is not as riveting from beginning to end as the first book was, and the ending is a little more inconclusive, which is why I gave it four stars instead of five. It never confirms whether Asher's suspicions are correct or not. Which means, of course, that I am eagerly awaiting a (hopeful) follow-up to this book and a satisfying conclusion to the Asher Lev saga.	2001-02-22
US	52542864	R31292AZ565OVK	0310231965	493272288	Smell of Sawdust, The	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Appreciating an often ridiculed movement	Growing up in a mainline denomination, I was first identified as a &quot;fundamentalist&quot; by a lady in my church who was my Sunday School teacher when I was younger. At that time, I didn't know what a fundamentalist was. I simply believed the Bible was wholly true. Later on, I tried very hard to shed that label. I still believed the Bible, but I rejected dispensationalism, started to see that I could learn things from other streams of Christianity including (gasp!) Catholicism, and enjoyed &quot;forbidden&quot; pleasures like going to movies, listening to rock music, and playing cards. Richard Mouw, president of Fuller Seminary, points out that many of the values he learned growing up as a true-blue fundamentalist are nothing to be ashamed of, but rather to be appreciated. Indeed, there are many good things about fundamentalism that modern-day evangelicals can still embrace. There are some very helpful discussions included in this book. Some of the chapters deal with evangelical relationships with Catholics and Jews, the benefits of dispensationalism (many have come to Christ by reading Hal Lindsey, as much as some of us would hate to admit it), and social/political activism. The final chapter discusses &quot;the simplicity beyond complexity&quot;, the fact that with all our theological sophistication we can still come to a place of wonder and simplicity. I, like Mouw, still would not call myself a fundamentalist, but there are still lessons to be learned from the old &quot;sawdust trail&quot;.	2001-02-22
US	52542864	R2JMYX2QLOKMH6	0609805460	657174337	Cuss Control: The Complete Book on How to Curb Your Cursing	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Jiminy Christmas, this is a gosh darn stinking good book!	I first learned about this book when I saw the author (and two imposters) on the game show &quot;To Tell the Truth&quot;. One of the panelists, comedienne Paula Poundstone (besides picking the wrong guy as the REAL James V. O'Connor), seemed to have a problem with the very idea of people encouraging others and themselves to clean up their language. After all, she curses and even allows her children to curse. Well, Paula, I think even you might enjoy this book if you actually read it. Far from advocating censorship, this book can be a valuable help to those who want to curb something that is as much a bad habit as smoking. Plus it is very entertaining, even hilarious in some places. <br />O'Connor is assuredly no stick-in-the-mud. There are probably more bad words used in this book than in 95% of the books out there, but they are there to make a point. When you read how these words are used, you can see how ridiculous they really sound. Plus, he gives many ideas for word substitutes, but he goes beyond that. Differentiating between &quot;casual&quot; and &quot;causal&quot; cursing, he suggests that it is easier to get rid of casual swearing. As for the causal, he attempts to attack it at the root, which is often anger and frustration, and points out that an attitude change is what is needed. If nothing else, this book makes you more aware of your use of language and how it affects you at work, at home, and, yes, in traffic. I know a guy who read this book and his cursing was curbed almost immediately because he was more aware and alert to it. (What, do you think I'm talking about myself? Hey, someone who knows me might be reading this right now, so keep your doggoned mouth shut!)	2001-02-16
US	52542864	R2YAGZNZEFJMB5	1884822304	601827270	Selected Poetry of Ogden Nash	Books	3	13	27	N	N	More clever than brilliant, but clever is good.	Ogden Nash should probably be considered more of a humorist than a poet. After all, he makes up words and sometimes totally disregards any sense of meter. Maybe &quot;rhyming humorist&quot; would be most accurate (even though there is some real poetry here, too). In my opinion, his strongest poems are his shortest. I particularly enjoy his poems about animals. Some of his humor seems a little dated and, unlike a previous reviewer, I found little here that, for me, was laugh-out-loud funny. One of my favorite poems in the book is actually a serious poem, &quot;A Carol for Children&quot;. But, hey, if you want serious poetry, get some Emily Dickinson. Ogden Nash is good if you need a lighthearted chuckle.	2001-02-16
US	52542864	R29H5G8HYZM3I7	0062516981	582858784	Son of a Preacher Man: My Search for Grace in the Shadows	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Enlightening but somewhat disturbing	In a church I attended for several years, a man who became a good friend of mine was asked to leave by the pastor over an issue that basically boiled down to church politics. This man and his wife had 2 children of their own, plus 8 adopted children. This incident bothered me, because I couldn't help thinking &quot;What about the children? What are they going to grow up thinking about Christianity, the church, and even God because of this incident?&quot;<br />Indeed, this book answers the question &quot;What about the children?&quot;, at least from the standpoint of one child who, at a young age, saw his famous parents ridiculed by the world and shunned by fellow Christians who used to be their friends. He saw his dad go to prison, his parents' marriage break up, all the while getting little support from the Body of Christ. There is no doubt that, in retrospect, the Bakkers were treated more harshly than deserved (and I would like to quickly add that I was no fan of Jim and Tammy Faye whatsoever), and it had a profound effect on young Jamie Charles (aka: Jay) and his sister. It is amazing that Jay Bakker is even a Christian today because of what he and his family had to go through.<br />Nevertheless, I still believe this is a young man with a chip on his shoulder. He ministers to a rather extreme group that many would not even attempt to reach, and he bends over backwards to show them acceptance because he is indeed one of them. But I detect in much of his tone that he still has some emotional healing that needs to take place. Not only that, probably a more solid grounding in the Bible would be helpful. I'm not wanting to be judgemental towards Jay Bakker, but I get a feeling that he is taking on the role of &quot;pastor&quot; before he is ready.  While he wants to avoid giving people a license to sin, he seems to come perilously close to doing just that. I pray that his ministry is successful, even though many may not understand, and I also pray that he finds a little more peace of mind. Hopefully writing this book helped him. I know reading it helped me understand some things.	2001-02-16
US	52542864	R3Q5OXTBWFVUNR	0198600240	814438657	The Oxford Companion to Christian Thought (Oxford Companions)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Should be in every Christian reference library	This comprehensive book is great for reference purposes but even better for just browsing. The articles are very interesting and informative, covering the gamut from biblical theology to spirituality to ethics, and even literature and philosophy. The contributors run the theological gamut from conservative to liberal, so everyone will find something to disagree with, but that's part of the educational process. Not just for academic types, everyone with an interest in Christian thinking should enjoy this volume.	2001-02-11
US	52542864	R117YNTVXU825C	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not your typical Grisham novel	By now, I'm sure everyone is aware that this is a very different novel than anything John Grisham has published previously. This book evokes a particular time and place: the Cotton Belt of the early 1950's, and, like &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot;, the story is told from a child's point of view; in this case, a fast-maturing 7-year-old. Unlike &quot;Mockingbird&quot;, of course, there are no lawyers or courtroom scenes, although crimes are committed. <br />I highly recommend this book. Nothing much happens in the first 70 pages, but then things get really interesting. In a culture where conservative Christianity is an integral part of every aspect of life, this 7-year-old is quickly faced with a dilemma: lie and be guilty of sin, or tell the truth and risk his family's livelihood (and possibly his own neck). Indeed, the mixed messages that he receives concerning religious beliefs are confusing for a child (and for honest grownups as well). Even more confusing are the early stirrings of sexual attraction toward a girl ten years his senior. This subject is handled in a very tasteful manner, and it inevitably leads, of course, to childhood heartbreak. (Not as serious a heartbreak as the baseball season ending with his beloved Cardinals in third place, however!) He witnesses things a child should never have to see (including two murders) and, as a result, has to grow up faster than most kids his age. His whole style and use of language is fairly mature for a 7-year-old.<br />Unfortunately the last several chapters are not quite as gripping as the middle part of the novel, and the story sort of fizzles out at the end, keeping me from giving it the highest rating. Still, it is very good and worth the time and money. This may not be the Grisham most people are used to, but give it a chance and it will win you over.	2001-02-07
US	52542864	RPLE2IR84HVVC	1585160172	423220874	The Learning Bible: Contemporary English Version	Books	2	42	58	N	N	For biblical newbies only	When I first got interested in reading the Bible as a young adolescent, a version of the New Testament called &quot;Good News for Modern Man&quot; was my bread-and-butter. It was put out by the American Bible Society, the same group who later came up with the Contemporary English Version (CEV), the translation used here. While &quot;Good News&quot; at least drew me in and got me reading the Bible, I eventually discovered it was inadequate for serious study. I have the same opinion of the CEV.<br />I suppose the aims of the CEV translators are admirable. There is not much here that is above a third- or fourth-grade reading level, which makes this Bible very accessable, but it also results in some imprecise translation. One example: the Feast of Unleavened Bread becomes the &quot;Festival of Thin Bread&quot; in this translation. Sure, one of the properties of unleavened bread is that it's thin, but &quot;unleavened&quot; and &quot;thin&quot; are not synonyms. Indeed, the entire tone of the translation seems juvenile to me. And, of course, being the 21st century, the issue of inclusive language comes up. So when someone says &quot;he&quot; referring to a person who could be a man or woman, the translators change it from a third-person perspective to a second-person, therefore changing &quot;he&quot; to &quot;you&quot;. It satisfies the &quot;political correctness&quot; quotient, but there's one problem: that's not the way it was said, and it could very well change the meaning of the text in some spots. <br />Most of my criticism has to do with the CEV translation. &quot;The Learning Bible&quot; itself is very colorful, with helpful, non-technical notes, and excellent photographs and illustrations. It certainly does not fall short in the &quot;eye candy&quot; department. But, getting back to the CEV, just how many translations do we need? The market seems to be glutted. This may be a good translation for the beginner, but soon even beginners will want to move on to theNIV, the NRSV, or even the grandaddy of them all, the King James Version.	2001-02-01
US	52542864	R2JT24I8VAMKMG	0826411177	415948947	Swaggart	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Fascinating and insightful analysis	I have long held the theory that there is little difference between a popular televangelist and a rock star. They just play to different audiences. Both undergo the same temptations. Both face the same potential pitfalls that are the side-effects of fame. The life of Jimmy Swaggart is in many ways intertwined with that of his cousin, rock-and-roll legend Jerry Lee Lewis (and, to a lesser extent, with his other famous cousin Micky Gilley). This book gives insight into how these relationships, along with his poor Southern upbringing and his youthful religious experiences shaped him into to the well-known Christian celebrity he later became. Soberingly, it also points out that the seeds of his downfall were planted early in life,  and the demons that would gain victory over him were the same ones he struggled against his entire life. <br />What really impresses me about this book is the fact that it is anything but a hatchet job. In fact, Jimmy Swaggart had many admirable qualities, despite his struggles with anger and sexual temptation. The author points out many times that the media was unfair in their assessment of Swaggart. She bends over backwards, in fact, to be fair and even-handed. The book does make it fairly clear that much of the ambition to make it to the &quot;top&quot; and the later drive to maintain a lavish lifestyle comes from his wife, who rules the Swaggart empire with an iron hand. If there is any fault in this book, it's that it barely mentions the years since the scandal, where Jimmy maintains a more modest, scaled-down ministry. But that is a minor fault. All the important stuff is here.	2001-01-30
US	52542864	RFKYPTXZPLYYJ	0671892010	662737904	Finding the Love of Your Life: Ten Principles for Choosing the Right Marriage Partner	Books	3	27	37	N	N	No easy answers here	Finding your life's partner seems to be about as difficult as finding a kidney donor: so many things have to match up. As a lifelong single (but one who doesn't want to stay that way forever) this book can be a little discouraging. How do you ever find someone who meets all the compatibility criteria? How can I even measure up to someone else's ideal? Of course, the premise is that it's better to be alone than in a bad marriage. This type of book is hard to rate because the bottom line is: Does it work? And I don't know the answer to that question. The principles do seem to be sound, and the author claims to have an outstanding success rate. I bought this book because I heard the author on a &quot;Focus on the Family&quot; radio broadcast and visited his website, where he runs sort of a &quot;matchmaking service&quot;, although not in the traditional sense. Because the author is well-established and has a good reputation, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt and a three-star rating.	2001-01-17
US	52542864	R2OELBLE5I9443	0787941700	166113045	Shopping for Faith, with CD-ROM: American Religion in the New Millennium	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Informative analysis of today's American religious scene	This book, written in 1998, takes an objective look at the varieties of religious expression in America at the end of the 20th century and projects the observed trends into the new millennium. This is good information for anyone to have, whether one is a &quot;seeker&quot;, a casual observer, or a devoted follower of a particular religion. It covers the &quot;mix-and-match&quot; religious experiences that are popular in some areas as well as the tradional religions who are embracing new methodology to impact today's society. The influence of religion in the social and political arenas is also addressed quite extensively. One subject the authors glossed over a little too quickly is the impact of televangelism and the effect it has on religious beliefs and practices. For good or for ill, televangelism has a much greater impact, at least in America's heartland, than the authors indicate. Otherwise, this book is very comprehensive and never ceases to be interesting.	2001-01-17
US	52542864	R3LSKPMJSSNCLV	0800757351	592954580	100 Christian Books That Changed the Century	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Adds a few more titles to my &quot;must read&quot; list	Any &quot;booklist&quot; type book is, by nature, highly subjective. And this does not puport to be a &quot;best of&quot; list, but a list of Christian books that have had the greatest impact in their time and even beyond. Indeed, the earliest book on this list, &quot;In His Steps&quot;, has enjoyed renewed popularity in the past few years with the &quot;WWJD&quot; phenomenon. As an avid reader of Christian books, and a follower of the Christian publishing industry over the past 25 or so years, I was somewhat surprised to see some recent books included that I have never heard of until I saw them in this book, which makes me question those choices. I mean, if a book such as &quot;Man in the Mirror&quot; made such an impact in the late 1980's I think I would have at least known about it. Of course, there are many books reviewed that I'd never heard of, and that's part of the educational process one goes through in a work such as this, but some are just books for their time rather than timeless classics. For example, &quot;Who Moved the Stone?&quot; might have caused a stir in 1930, but that book was superceded on the evangelical scene years later with the publication of &quot;Evidence That Demands a Verdict&quot;, also included. And Bishop Fulton J. Sheen may have been a popular religious figure in the 1950's, but his writings would have only historical interest today. Nevertheless, each reader has his or her own interests, and the summaries of these 20th century works provide a good starting point for delving into Christian literature that has made a difference over the past 100 years.	2001-01-17
US	52542864	R9DBM6NS4G7AC	0310228344	64463183	The Bible Jesus Read	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Encountering the more disturbing portions of the O.T.	The title is somewhat misleading. Rather than a comprehensive analysis of &quot;The Bible Jesus Read&quot;, that is, the Old Testament, the author deals with certain books of the Old Testament. And if you know Philip Yancey from his previous writings, you know that he will concentrate on the more difficult, disturbing, seemingly negative parts of the Old Testament. To me, that is one of Yancey's strengths. He takes an unflinching look at reality, not an idealized vision of what everyone thinks life in God is supposed to be. And here is what life with God really looked like to people such as Job and the teacher from Ecclesiastes. In the chapter on Psalms, he deals especially with the imprecatory, or &quot;cursing&quot; Psalms, which seem difficult to reconcile with later Christian teachings on forgiveness and loving one's enemies. The chapter on the prophets is helpful concerning how to generally interpret them. In the final chapter, Yancey points out how the increasing absence of God (according to the Hebrew arrangement of the canon) is designed to increase the spiritual hunger that anticipates the coming of the Messiah. <br />Previous reviewers have indicated that, in their opinion, this is not one of Yancey's stronger books. I believe, with the exception of one chapter, this book is as strong and interesting as any book he has written. Unfortunately, I had to rate it short of 5 stars because of the chapter on Deuteronomy. Portions of that chapter were taken from the companion booklet to the animated feature &quot;The Prince of Egypt&quot;, and thus follows the storyline of the film and not the actual biblical storyline. The whole tone of that chapter just does not fit in a book such as this. If I wanted to read the flowery, overblown recounting of the storyline of the movie, I would have purchased it separately. If you get past the dross, there are valuable insights to be gleaned, but the dross shouldn't be there in the first place. Otherwise, this is an exemplarybook.	2001-01-17
US	52542864	R13H3Z4A2Y3CJ6	080549040X	166734585	131 Christians Everyone Should Know (Holman Reference)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	Christian history as biography	The good, the bad, and the ugly, they're all here: Preachers, theologians, scientists, philosophers, writers, artists, musicians, martyrs, mystics, 131 Christians (or people who have identified themselves as Christians) in all who have impacted history. And believe me, calling some of these people Christians is a stretch. (Will I see King Henry VIII in heaven when I get there? I guess its not for me to judge, but...) Indeed, not all of these people would be considered saints as some would define sainthood, but there is a certain comfort one can take in the flaws found in many of these individuals. And, of course, many are saints in every sense of the word. In reading about these people one cannot avoid becoming acquainted with the great events of Christian history and the history of the world. But history is about people, and that's where this book shines. Of course, there are some omissions (the omission of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. borders on inexcusable), but for a good reference on figures you've heard about but didn't know very well if at all, this book is hard to beat.	2000-12-27
US	52542864	R362G5NOWTCU0T	189205101X	84642261	Guinness World Records 2001	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Useless drivel clutters otherwise valuable resource	This is definitely not the Guinness Book of my youth. Since I had possessed my last Guinness Book of World Records (circa 1972), crass commercialization has hit the Guinness organization in the form of the TV series of the same name. New useless categories have been invented (like the longest distance someone has shot spaghetti from their nose). That has served to cheapen the product. Also of very limited value are the hi-tech categories, especially the computer category. What's the use of listing the record for the biggest hard drive when that record was probably already broken by the time the book first hit the stores? Consult the latest computer magazines for the current &quot;biggest and best&quot;.<br />Once past these obstacles, there is a lot of good information here. Many of the categories are quite educational, especially dealing with science, transportation, the human body, and (legitimate) athletics. In addition, the book is a treat for the eyes, with color photographs and color-coded sections. All in all, this is a publication of varying usefulness, but it's almost always entertaining. Almost.	2000-12-27
US	52542864	R2QE6GOXDSA6ZF	1565073568	753892337	Great Books of the Christian Tradition	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent resource for Christian readers	This book provides an excellent curriculum, if you will, of books every Christian should read in his or her lifetime. Although the focus is on Christian literature throughout the centuries, there is also a list of non-Christian works that have shaped our world which the author rightly advocates reading. There is even a separate list of books for children (although adults could benefit from reading some of these as well). The descriptions of each work are very concise, with excerpts from some works scattered throughout. One can read through this book in a couple of hours; that way, one has plenty of time to start digging into the books themselves, which is the whole point!	2000-12-27
US	52542864	R12E3UU6C8IPVD	0802841325	658912412	Following Jesus: Biblical Reflections on Discipleship	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Academically-informed discipleship	N.T. Wright is one of the few biblical scholars who effectively bridges the gap between the academy and the church. He takes a great interest in fleshing out the effects of his scholarly findings on his day-to-day walk in obedience to Christ. In this series of sermons, certain overriding themes emerge, most importantly, the centrality of the resurrection of Jesus. That will be quite refreshing for those used to the skepticism of other &quot;Jesus scholars&quot; who would deny such a supernatural occurrence. In some instances, he tackles subjects from a non-traditional angle, but he is nothing if not thoroughly biblical, and it is healthy to have one's presuppositions challenged occasionally. This would be an excellent volume for group study, or to supplement any bible study concerning the biblical books and subjects covered here.	2000-12-27
US	52542864	RXVR0IJSXO6XC	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	2	3	12	N	N	At &quot;Ho-Hum&quot; in Mitford	The rock group Talking Heads did a song that goes &quot;Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens.&quot; I don't really agree with those sentiments, but substitute &quot;Mitford&quot; for &quot;Heaven&quot; and it becomes a lot more accurate. At first I thought Mitford might be similar to the Mayberry of &quot;The Andy Griffith Show&quot; with a cleric instead of a sheriff as the lead character, but actually, Mitford seems to be a place where people from Mayberry would go to escape the hustle and bustle. Plus, as annoyingly quirky as the Mitford characters are, there is nobody there as well-drawn as Barney, Gomer, or Floyd the barber. Maybe this book would work better as a TV show. Or as a sleeping pill.	2000-12-11
US	52542864	R174S778USIBSO	0830822003	289387795	The Challenge of Jesus: Rediscovering Who Jesus Was & Is	Books	4	29	34	N	N	Warning: this could change the way you read your Bible!	Why all this fuss about the quest for the historical Jesus? Don't we have the historical Jesus presented to us in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? Why do we need to take a fresh look at Jesus when we (speaking of Christian evangelicals) know who he is already? Ah, but is the Jesus we think we know the real Jesus that walked this earth nearly 2000 years ago? N.T. Wright brings new perspectives in this discussion about Jesus, while remaining thoroughly biblical in this approach. Indeed, he is more rigorously biblical than most, as he recognizes the ministry and message of Jesus as being specific to the first-century Jew. What did the words &quot;Messiah&quot;, &quot;Son of Man&quot;, &quot;Son of God&quot; and &quot;Kingdom of God&quot; mean to the Jews of that era? What was the central theme of Jesus' ministry? How did he use not only words but symbolic actions to get his message across? What does it mean to say that Jesus is God? Given the specificity of his message, what does that mean for the church and the world today? Wright addresses all these questions and, whether you agree with all he says or not, it makes for provocative reading. As both a scholar and a churchman, Wright makes cutting-edge biblical scholarship understandable and relevant to the average churchgoer, and that is worthy of commendation.	2000-12-11
US	52542864	RK8Z9L9UJPPVG	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Eggers: the Kerouac of the slacker generation?	As Jack Kerouac was to the Beat Generation, so is Dave Eggers to &quot;slackerdom&quot; (or Generation X, or whatever other meaningless title one would be attempted to bestow upon that particular age group). All the while I was reading this book of less than staggering genius, I marvelled at all the 5-star reviews it was getting. Was I missing something? Is the problem that I may be at the wrong age (44) to appreciate something like this? Surprisingly, by the time I finished the book, I had to admit there were sections that touched me deeply, especially dealing with the death of the author's mother and the aftermath. There were also parts I found amusing (like the Adam Rich death scam). These helped offset the totally boring, tedious parts, including the faux-interview with the casting director of MTV's &quot;The Real World&quot;. During most of the book, I kept wondering &quot;Why should I care about these people?&quot; By the end, I realized that, somehow, I cared very much. And that a book can make me feel that way despite the fact that I found much of it pretentious and dull shows that it may be closer to a work of genius than I'd like to admit. But it would be more &quot;sneaky genius&quot; than &quot;staggering genius&quot;.	2000-12-08
US	52542864	RF5DPNUZ44ERO	0849916550	570017569	He Chose The Nails: What God did to Win Your Heart	Books	3	6	7	N	N	To be read with the heart	As a voracious reader of Christian books, it is somewhat surprising that I had not read a book by this extremely popular Christian author until now. Max Lucado is very gifted in taking what a more casual reader of the Bible might regard as incidental aspects of the crucifixion (the sign on the cross is three languages, the wine-soaked sponge, etc.) and extracting deep meaning out of each detail. He has an engaging way with words that touches the heart, using illustrations from his own life to drive home his points. Unfortunately, at least once or twice he sacrifices sound theology to make a dramatic point. But theological precision is not the point of this book. This is a book to be read with the heart more than the head, to touch the soul more than the intellect. At this the book succeeds admirably.	2000-12-05
US	52542864	RPPFT3XSIOCK8	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heartbreakingly brilliant	Imagine a talent, a gift, if you will, that rages inside an artist's soul with such passion that it must be expressed, to the point of almost controlling the artist, rather than the artist controlling the gift. Imagine the conflict in that artist's soul between his devout religious upbringing and the driving need to remain true to his art no matter what the consequences, even if the results would seem blasphemous. Imagine the artist's family, and indeed his whole environment, full of good-hearted people who cannot begin to understand his gift, who fear that his gift may even be inspired by dark forces. <br />This struggle is reality for scores of artistic people all over the world, and has been for centuries. Potok's novel illustrates the conflict, and the price that must be paid for true artistry, better than any book I have read recently, maybe ever. Every artist (or artist-pretender, which is what I really am, in the realm of music and songwriting) or every person who knows an artist should read this book. So should everyone else. This book deserves to be a classic.	2000-12-01
US	52542864	RIUN5580FMHQZ	0849916739	70281232	The Wounded Spirit	Books	5	13	13	N	N	This is not fiction. This is real.	As an extremely overweight child (and adult) I suffered through more than my fair share of teasing, taunting, and bullying. When I, with my somewhat volatile temperment, would make some weak attempt at retaliation, I found that I would usually be the one to get punished for it by the &quot;authorities&quot;. That was rather confusing to me. Something about that did not seem right. Finally, here is someone with similar experiences with the courage to write about it. Here is someone who agrees with what I knew deep down inside all along, that something is terribly wrong with a society that refuses to take a stand against bullying and abuse, and even implicitly encourages it. <br />Peretti writes this book for the wounded, for those who wound, and for those who have found themselves on both sides of that fence. He writes about the way things could be if society is bold enough to change its mindset and take action. If things don't change, more Columbine-type incidents are inevitable. I hope and pray that this small book inspires more writings on this subject, and more importantly, the healing of thousands of wounded spirits.	2000-12-01
US	52542864	RNB3178FID1LR	0786885475	293241639	Ten Fun Things to Do Before You Die	Books	2	11	20	N	N	Nuns have more fun	This book is more like a &quot;rule of life&quot; than suggestions for specific fun things to do, like going skydiving or riding the world's biggest roller coaster. Of course, calling it a &quot;rule of life&quot; wouldn't be much fun, now, would it? Among all the frivolity (not that there's anything wrong with frivolity) she slips in a few ideas that could be construed as spiritual disciplines. Very clever, this nun! She might be a fun person to take to the clubs and discos, but only after her periods of silent meditation.<br />I really wanted to give this book at least three stars, but I had to dock it one star due to her constant references to &quot;the Gods&quot; or &quot;the Gods and their Muses&quot;. Just to whom the heck is she referring? Fun is fun, but I would expect a nun to at least be a monotheist.	2000-11-25
US	52542864	R2HMSPCXRW5H2T	0062720732	851944626	The New Lifetime Reading Plan: The Classical Guide to World Literature, Revised and Expanded	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Whets the appetite for great reading	Want to get serious about reading great literature but don't know where to start? This is a perfect starting point. Not only does it guide you into the classic &quot;repertoire&quot; but it creates a hunger to delve into these literary delicacies. The authors definitely have a passion for this material, and the best part is they are not afraid to be critical of these works and authors at times. Included are works that fall outside the &quot;western&quot; canon that could easily go unread by those unfamiliar with eastern culture. The worlds of science and philosophy are also well-represented. <br />I remember that I did some of my required reading in school like many did: by reading the Cliff's Notes. Now, as an adult, it's time to go back and give books like &quot;The Scarlet Letter&quot; and &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot; a second chance, from a more mature perspective. Ahead of me lies literary &quot;Mt. Everests&quot; to climb such as &quot;Ulysses&quot; and &quot;Remembrance of Things Past&quot;. Of course, in a reading plan such as this, there are always omissions (where's &quot;Beowulf&quot;, for gosh sakes?), but even recognizing the omissions increases my awareness and hunger for them. This book is not the be-all and end-all of literary reading plans, no book is, but it accomplishes its task perfectly.	2000-11-18
US	52542864	R3QOZIJB0SLNIE	0801011566	87147691	Invitation to the Classics (Masterworks)	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Great literature from a Christian perspective	After recently perusing &quot;The New Lifetime Reading Plan&quot;, I dug this book back out to do a comparison. &quot;Invitation to the Classics&quot; has more of a particularly Christian approach, including works by Aquinas, Luther, Calvin, Weil, and Lewis that other such surveys might omit. It also focuses on western literature, leaving out some of the great Japanese and Chinese classics that would give one more of a well-rounded education. Most authors included here are represented by only one work, and some choices are curious indeed (for Faulkner, &quot;Go Down, Moses&quot; was selected over &quot;The Sound and the Fury&quot;, for Joyce, &quot;Dubliners&quot; got the nod over &quot;Ulysses&quot;). That does not diminish the value of this book, however. This is more than just a reading list. It is a beautiful book in its own right, with color photographs and illustrations to enhance the experience. All in all, I highly recommend this volume.	2000-11-18
US	52542864	R2OUNWFK8XMJC	0812930347	751047265	Living Faith	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Good man, fair-to-middlin'  book	I've always regarded Jimmy Carter as a better human being than a president. What he accomplished after his term in office is, I believe, much greater than what he accomplished as Chief Executive of the United States. Unsurprisingly, given his humanitarian efforts, his personal faith leans more towards the social gospel and less towards the personally spiritual aspects of the faith, although those aspects are present as well. When discussing theological issues, or discussing the controversies in his Southern Baptist Church, he falls a little short. He does not display a good understanding of some conservative positions. I'm not saying he has to agree with them, but to claim that inerrantists mostly believe the King James Version is inerrant is, well, errant. True inerrantists believe the inerrancy is in the original documents, in the original languages. Those who believe homosexuality is wrong (what he calls &quot;attacking homosexuals) get their beliefs from a few Old Testament verses, claims Mr. Carter. Actually, there are passages in the New Testament that would seem to support that position as well. And it is obvious he has never even made an attempt to come to grips with the doctrine of predestination. One thing in his favor, though: he does not support the conclusions of the Jesus Seminar. <br />Jimmy Carter deserves much respect for the good that he's done for humanity. I believe his faith is genuine, and he is truly a born-again believer. He has challenged me, through this book, to put more action behind my faith. All who read this book should realize one thing: a theologian he is not.	2000-11-08
US	52542864	R2CN4UMQR115PC	0310235316	337454298	Reaching for the Invisible God	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Normal Philip Yancey territory	Philip Yancey is an expert in writing about the struggles, the doubts, and the uncertainties of the Christian life. In other words, he writes about reality. There is no sugar-coating from Yancey. No &quot;Now I am happy all the day&quot; type sentiment. But through all that gritty reality, he can still experience a deep faith in the God who is unseen, and often seems absent. Given that, there is not a lot about this book that distinguishes itself from his other works. This is familiar ground to those who have read some of his previous books. I do like his discussions of some of the non-traditional &quot;attributes&quot; of God (especially intriguing is the treatise on God's shyness). When I first noticed the chapters on the stages of faith as Child, Adult, and Parent, I cringed at the thought of the possibility of pop-psychology mumbo-jumbo being advocated, but these are some of the most valuable chapters in the book. His discussion of the strengths and &quot;weaknesses&quot; of the different persons of the Trinity is also very interesting.<br />Philip Yancey obviously reads a lot of books. Most of his ideas seem synthesized from the various things he has read. It takes a very alert, organized mind to bring all this together. I don't know how many of his ideas in this book are original, and how many are &quot;borrowed&quot;, but Yancey remains one of the most interesting writers on the Christian scene today. Although this is familiar Yancey territory, few writers stake out that same territory with the same skill and near-brilliance.	2000-11-06
US	52542864	R2ZXU62EVL0JM9	1885591942	808860655	The Confusing World of Benny Hinn	Books	4	32	41	N	N	Guess what? I actually DID read this book, and it's good!!	James 3:1 says &quot;My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgement&quot; (New King James Version). In this book, Benny Hinn goes &quot;under the microscope&quot;, so to speak, as his words and deeds are analyzed and found wanting. That such a prominent figure should undergo such scrutiny should not be surprising, according to the above-quoted scripture, nor should it cause condemnation and outrage on the part of his &quot;fans&quot;. Every follower of Benny Hinn, or indeed, the follower of any pop-religious icon should read this book. The evidence presented is documented and verifiable. But, more importantly, it points out sound Biblical interpretive principals, something many people are unaware of nowadays when so many interpret Scripture by what they think God tells them it means (which is usually dependent on their religious preconditioning). Especially informative to me is the chapter concerning Hinn's teaching on the Blood, and how it is similar to others who have associated almost magical powers to a literal red fluid. Appendix A, written by someone who visited Hinn's church in Orlando, is very revealing. To have a church service that is patrolled by security guards who have use Gestapo-like tactics on whoever appears not to be a Hinn-worshiper shows paranoia in the Hinn camp, not exactly an indication of great &quot;faith&quot;. <br />I had to downgrade this book a little because, on some issues, it treads and retreads the same ground, which is tantamount to beating a dead horse. Of course, the fact that this book is a collection of articles contributes to that, but it could have used tighter editing. <br />It is somewhat disturbing to me to see reviews written on this book by people who have not even read it. The opinions of these people should count for nothing, whether they gave it one star or five (I thought it was ironic that one person who did not read the book blasted it in his &quot;review&quot; and gave it five stars!) I challenge everyone who has pre-condemned this book to read it. These authors are not making up this information. Benny Hinn actually said this stuff, and as a prominent figure in popular religion today, his words and his life lend themselves to scrutiny. Benny Hinn is a product of the Christian celebrity scene of today, which shows you how spiritually bankrupt that scene is.	2000-10-28
US	52542864	R26KFHWR38R2MB	1585420654	417556027	God Is No Laughing Matter: Observations and Objections on the Spiritual Path	Books	2	16	80	N	N	HA, HA, HA! Yeah, right!	The title of this book is ironic, since Ms. Cameron thinks God actually IS a laughing matter! Her opinion is that people tend to take their spirituality too seriously. Well, I agree that many people should lighten up. However, spirituality is a basically serious matter (although not devoid of joy, anything but!!). As an evangelical Christian, I regard spirituality as a matter of eternal consequence. And, make no mistake about it, her approach is not necessarily a Christian approach, although she throws Christ in there quite a bit. But everything else is thrown in the mix, too, as if it all had equal worth. That's not to say there are some potentially valuable exercises included in the book, and even some interesting opinions. But, ultimately, a self-constructed spirituality gathered from a hodge-podge of sources leads one only to the &quot;God&quot; of wishful thinking, not the one true God.	2000-10-14
US	52542864	R32K6903NSMDJE	0060693827	625975905	The Best Christian Writing 2000	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A mixed bag, as expected	It's difficult to review an anthology-type book like this because the quality (or, more precisely, the usefulness) of the articles vary greatly. The great majority of the essays included, although interesting, cannot be considered life-changing. But one essay, in my opinion, is worth the price of the book. &quot;Jesus the Logician&quot; by Dallas Willard could change (and enhance) the way one looks at the central figure of Christianity. Expounding on a theme introduced in his brilliant book &quot;The Divine Conspiracy&quot;, namely, that Jesus is the most intelligent person who ever lived, Willard explores Jesus' use of rigorous logic, especially when answering the queries of his opponents. Indeed, a logical analysis of Jesus' sayings can be the key to their proper interpretation. To me, this article stands head and shoulders above the others.<br />Other worthwhile essays by other authors include &quot;Wise Teachers, Sound Teaching&quot;, &quot;Surprised by Death&quot; and &quot;The Market as God&quot;. Other entries, of which &quot;The Recovery of Moral Agency?&quot; is a good example, seem dry and difficult. Everyone will have their favorites in this collection, and normally such a mixed bag would earn this book three stars. But the Dallas Willard article gives this anthology a boost to the next level.	2000-10-14
US	52542864	RDM2SCPZQEAKK	0805416773	35133315	A Hill on Which to Die: One Southern Baptist's Journey	Books	3	20	28	N	N	Important reading, but dull in spots	As a non-Baptist, I nonetheless have an interest in the struggle for Biblical fidelity in any denomination or institution. I have read several books on the &quot;liberal vs. conservative&quot; theological battles in different venues. It is crucial, in a time where most mainline denominations have cascaded down the slippery slope of liberalism (while consistently losing members) that believers in the authority of God's Word not be forced out, ridiculed, or left bereft of power in the few churches where theological conservatism still has at least some representation. I did not realize the extent liberalism had taken hold in the Southern Baptist Convention until I read this book. The story of how conservatives retook the ground lost to liberalism in this denomination is a story that needed to be told.<br />Some of the book, especially dealing with denominational structure, is somewhat confusing, although I'm sure through no fault of the author. When you have a structure where a Committee on Comittees appoints a Committee on Boards, which now has a different name, and they appoint other boards and committees with varying term lengths, you can see where it would take a legal mind just to wade through all the folderol. The writing, in general, could have used some &quot;spicing up&quot;. I think the author could have benefitted greatly by using a collaborator. Nevertheless, I recommend this book for liberals and conservatives alike, Baptist or not, who have an interest in this ongoing battle between the theological right and left.	2000-09-29
US	52542864	R3C9NSDLHMH0EV	156476673X	530191926	Reflections on the Movies: Hearing God in the Unlikeliest of Places (Reflective Living Series)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	All movie lovers should get this book	This is an excellent book that approaches movies from a Christian perspective, but it may not be what some expect. This is not a book that critiques movies by counting sex scenes, cuss words, and violent acts as some Christian reviewers do. In fact, this book doesn't review movies in a conventional manner at all. &quot;Movies are made up of moments&quot;, to quote the author, and sometimes his meditations on particular movies zero in on moments that, for him, have particular spiritual resonance. He is also not afraid of unflinching reality. The truth is important, even life-changing, despite the fact that it can be offensive to some. The author states, &quot;I would rather be told an R-rated truth than a G-rated lie.&quot; Therefore, movies that are bold and unsparing in their reality, such as &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;, &quot;Schindler's List&quot; and &quot;Amistad&quot; have great impact because they tell the hard truth, distasteful as it may seem. Of course, spiritual truth may be gleaned from more lighthearted fare as well, such as &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;.<br />When I finished this book, I immediately wanted to take a trip to the video rental store, even though I've seen most of the movies discussed here. But I can look at them somewhat differently now, and I can, I daresay, listen for the voice of God that comes through these films. I certainly hope Ken Gire writes a &quot;Volume Two&quot; on this subject.	2000-09-29
US	52542864	R249LGTCXN8FP4	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Another exciting chapter in the Harry Potter saga!	Herein we learn more about how the intertwining relationships formed at Hogwarts in the past affect attitudes and loyalties in the present. Harry  also struggles with his true nature and destiny, questioning if he is  taking the path for which he is appointed. Aww, to heck with all that, this  book is as riveting as the first, and nobody should miss it. End of story!	2000-09-17
US	52542864	R226YCBKXMHLML	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thumbs up for Harry Potter	As an evangelical Christian, but one who likes to evaluate things for myself and not just take someone else's word for it, I took a great deal of  interest in the Harry Potter hoopla. Are the Harry Potter books evil? Do  they promote Satanism? I decided to find out for myself, starting with the  first book. My verdict? These are the most enjoyable, creative, and  imaginative books I've read in the fantasy genre (please stop calling these  children's books!) since &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; and &quot;The  Chronicles of Narnia&quot;. I do not believe the Harry Potter books are  dangerous because they take place in a fantasy realm, not a realistic one,  and, let's face it, with all the abuse poor Harry has to endure, both in  the Muggle world and at Hogwarts, it doesn't make the wizarding life look  totally appealing, if such a life were even a possibility. Too many  difficulties, and too many close brushes with death (or at least  expulsion)!<br />Having read through the first three books by now, there are  some questions I have to raise. Since the Dursley's obviously dislike Harry  and put him through much emotional abuse, can they just not put him up for  foster care, or does England not have such a system? And how can someone as  hateful and patently unfair as Professor Snape be allowed to teach? As  sympathetic a character as the headmaster Dumbledore is, I think the school  needs a reformer to come in and improve the system, making for a more fair  and equitable environment for young wizards and witches. But then, I get  angry at injustice, and much injustice goes on in this series. I guess it  adds to the plot.<br />Kids will be reading this book 100 years from now, just  as they are still reading &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot;. And, like  &quot;Alice&quot;, this book is not just for kids, and in fact I think can  be more appreciated by adults. I'm not sure I'd put it in &quot;Lord of the  Rings&quot; class, but it has classic potential nonetheless.	2000-09-09
US	52542864	RHXTORMBCVZ9A	1578560853	61910028	Edge of Eternity	Books	1	7	16	N	N	This book was strangely non-compelling	I think too many Christian authors try to write &quot;classics&quot; instead of telling a good story, and, to me, that's what is going on here.  It's kind of like &quot;Pilgrim's Progress&quot; on an acid trip. The main  character is a cliche of &quot;the self-made man who cared only about his  career who neglected his family and then he lost them and, oh yes, one of  them died tragically&quot;. HO-HUM. He gets swept into  &quot;eternity&quot;, and the scene changes constantly, one second it seems  to be heaven, then the next second it's hell. I had to give this only one  star because, frankly, I wasn't drawn in enough to finish it. Note to  aspiring Christian authors: don't try to be C.S. Lewis or J.R.R. Tolkien.  You can't be. OK?	2000-09-02
US	52542864	R1IBO149MA71F3	0842355006	776832553	Rift in Time (The Livingstone Chronicles #1)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	A rift in believability--but still entertaining	Like most readers, I found the theories embodied in this book concerning the location of the Garden of Eden and its connection with Mt. Sinai/Horeb  to be fascinating and somewhat plausible. The reflowering of the Garden of  Eden in the end days? Well--kind of a stretch, but I won't say it couldn't  happen. I did appreciate a little different take on the end times  chronology. What I found hard to swallow centers around two different  areas.<br />1. The author seems to subscibe to a conspiracy theory which  traces all evildoings on the world scene back to a small group of people.  Whether you call them the Illuminati, the Trilateral Commission, or  whatever, I have a hard time believing that a gathering of 12 new-age  wackos have all the power. I used to be a conspiracy buff, but I think the  &quot;new-age agenda&quot;, if you want to call it that, is much more  disorganized and chaotic than is portrayed, even with the one loose cannon  that causes the most trouble in the novel. It makes for exciting reading to  have such an open, frontal attack on the archaeologist and his team, but I  think the devil works in much more subtle ways, through discrediting the  discoveries, for example. I don't believe that the discovery of Noah's Ark  or the Garden of Eden would bring a massive religious revival, anyway. Some  won't believe even with the evidence staring them in the face.<br />2. Adam  Livingstone, the main character in the novel, puzzled me somewhat.  Livingstone, before he gets saved (I don't think I'm giving anything away,  it's obvious that will happen from the beginning, and, hey, this is a book  for the Christian market, after all) seems to have a curious interest in  proving the Bible accounts are true, even before he believes them himself.  In addition, for such a swashbuckling, debonair, single world-wide  celebrity he seems to live a squeaky-clean, wholesome life, even keeping  his girlfriend at arms' length (It's pretty clear there was no hanky-panky  going on). It was not too big a turnaround, it seems, for him to become a  Christian, he acted like one practically through the whole book. I guess  the Christian market prefers blatant, sinister evil wrapped up in a new-age  package to simple hedonism. Plus, the idea of a celebrity archaeologist is  peculiar. How many people can name even one modern archaeologist?<br />This is  not to say the book is not a good read, because it is. It is exciting and  tense, and would make a better movie, in the right hands, than the lame  &quot;Omega Code&quot;. Genesis fascinates me more than the book of  Revelation, anyway, and there is a lot concerning ancient world here. So I  give it a thumbs up, with reservations.	2000-08-07
US	52542864	R2YRNM33OPZEBA	0316578517	656102976	In the Spirit of Happiness	Books	4	41	49	N	N	A potential classic, though not unflawed	When I started this book, reading several chapters into it, I thought it was the best spiritual book I've read since Dallas Willard's &quot;The  Divine Conspiracy&quot;. Indeed, readers of Willard and Richard Foster  would benefit greatly from this book, for it is really about the spiritual  disciplines involved in maintaining a lifelong spiritual journey. Although  it is written by monks, it is aimed toward anyone desiring union with God,  which is the true basis for happiness. The continuing story of &quot;the  Seeker&quot;, a composite of several spiritual pilgrims that have committed  to the monastic life at New Skete, is threaded throughout this book, and I  can see much of my own pilgrimmage reflected in those accounts as the  Seeker grows in wisdom.<br />The wisdom of Father Laurence, especially, but  the other monks also, is not wisdom that is theoretical, but has been  developed over a long period of time living in community. After reading the  first few chapters, I was almost ready to head up to New York to join them,  to sit under that marvelous teaching, to immerse myself in the rich,  traditional worship, to participate in the cycle of prayer and work  (indeed, work is considered a form of prayer by the monks). Alas, I then  ran into a major snag.<br />I was tipped off early in the book by a brief  discussion about the existence or non-existence of demonic forces. The flaw  became more obvious in a later chapter when the monks took the liberty to  disagree with Holy Scripture (St. Paul's writing in Romans 7 concerning why  he does what he does not want to do, which is not him but the sin within  him). There seems to be a concern that this scripture could be misused to  shirk one's personal responsibility for sin (of course, nearly ANY  scripture can be misused if not understood properly), so their solution  seems to be to just discard it, rather than really trying to understand  what Paul was saying. Then, in the middle of a very valuable discussion onsacred reading of the scriptures, they put forth a typical liberal view on  scriptural interpretation, which to me puts them in the curious position of  having a high regard for scripture as used in worship and devotions, while  at the same time undermining the AUTHORITY of scripture. Therefore, they  seem to put scripture on the same level as the writings of the early church  fathers, which they can discard just as easily as they can the other,  non-canonized writings, especially if it conflicts with their knowledge of  modern psychology.<br />I could not continue the book at that point with the  same enthusiasm with which I began it, but I did finish it, and I still  highly recommend it to spiritual seekers, whether of conservative or  liberal bent. It may very well become a modern spiritual classic,  especially since, unlike most books of this nature, it is gives insight  into an Eastern style of Christian monasticism.	2000-08-07
US	52542864	R3NXOX1A61E5OC	0060902957	377068911	Waiting For God Reissue	Books	4	54	57	N	N	Important spiritual classic	This is indeed a classic, but like many classics, it demands your full attention. The letters contained in the book make for fascinating reading, especially the Spiritual Autobiography. This is indeed the &quot;easier  reading&quot; part of the book, but it gives you the sense of a person who  values total obedience to God even if it marks her as an outsider. She is  not afraid to be unconventional, as far as it concerns the institutional  Church. The essays are a little more challenging, especially the lengthy  essay &quot;Forms of the Implicit Love of God,&quot; where I had difficulty  along the way grasping all that she was saying. However, at the end, she  pulls it all together brilliantly in the story of Electra and Orestes,  where the importance of waiting on God rather than seeking is brought home  forcefully. The final essay, &quot;Concerning the Our Father&quot; is  classic, especially the last three paragraphs that point out the structure  and the flow of this prayer and the effect it has on one's soul. The only  reason I give this book 4 stars instead of 5 are for the places it seems to  bog down, but that may be more a fault of mine than the author's.	2000-07-17
US	52542864	R2R3GFGTTZHQZ0	0849911796	723070327	The Visitation	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Peretti masterpiece	This is as good as Christian fiction gets. In fact, it is as good popular  fiction gets. Peretti writes a story here that is not only gripping but it  resonates very much with my own spiritual journey and my perceptions of the  state of American Christianity today. I almost wept as I read of the  burned-out ex-pastor who was so full of faith and expectation in his youth,  only to have reality continually chip away at his idealism, until he was  left at a place of cynicism and doubt. How he is restored to a deeper,  wiser faith is, to me, the central theme of the story. Peretti is also very  perceptive about the gullibility of many Christians today who are dazzled  by spectacular manifestations that may or may not be biblical. Most people  who read this book will be able to identify themselves in at least one of  the characters, and everyone will see someone they know in this story. All  in all, the book is a treasure to be read and re-read.	2000-07-10
US	52542864	R15KMMUM6HN2KC	157322782X	742558763	The Ironic Christian's Companion: Finding the Marks of God's Grace in the World	Books	2	15	33	N	N	I thought I was an &quot;ironic Christian&quot; until I read this book	Patrick Henry never actually defines what an &quot;Ironic Christian&quot;  is, but it basically seems to be a Christian who happily lives in  ambiguity, somewhere in the nether region that exists between total  skepticism and absolute certainty. So far, so good. Not everything can be  tied up in a neat little package like a TV show that ties up all loose ends  in one hour's time. The Christian life (even a life lived outside  Christianity) is full of surprises and wonder, and the fact that Dr. Seuss  can speak to a life of faith every bit as much as, say, St. Augustine, is  nothing new or shocking to me. Much of what Henry has to say in this book  is valuable as far as re-thinking many of our assumptions. But his embrace  of philosophies that are detrimental to Christian faith, such as radical  feminism (as characterized by his defense of the reprehensible  &quot;Re-Imaging Conference&quot;) and religious pluralism makes me  hesitate to give whole-hearted approval of this book. If I have to be on  the left wing of Christianity to be an &quot;Ironic Christian&quot;, I  guess I'm not one.	2000-07-09
US	52542864	R3MTAUDUQDQ5GK	0805420614	270908957	The Rock & Roll Rebellion: Why People of Faith Abandoned Rock Music and Why They're Coming Back	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The &quot;problem&quot; of CCM and a radical solution	Contemporary Christian Music (CCM) is a genre that, unlike other musical  genres, is defined solely by its lyrical content, as opposed to musical  style. Thus, it has been relegated to the evangelical subculture, which is  tantamount to locking it in the basement of the entertainment world. Mark  Joseph takes a very opinionated view that the &quot;ghettoizing&quot; of  Christian music into the CCM substratum has had a severely detrimental  effect on Christianity's influence in the wider marketplace. Some artists  have been content to remain in the subculture, relying on the evangelizing  efforts of their fans to bring the unchurched to their concerts and to  spread the word to the mainstream. Others have longed to break out of CCM  straightjacket into the world at large, to bring positive values to pop  culture. Some have succeeded at this, with varying degrees of success. And  some never were in the &quot;straightjacket&quot; to begin with. This book  gives an excellent overview of artists in all these camps. <br />Joseph never  tries to hide his opinion about CCM. He believes that, in its present form,  it basically shouldn't exist. He believes that there should be about 20% of  these musicians ministering in churches and to youth groups, and about 80%  out in the mainstream, and he has some practical solutions to bring  Christian music to that point. Will it ever happen? It's doubtful that it  will, or that it even should. After all, to me, CCM is valuable as  wholesome entertainment to the modern and post-modern generations who would  have no interest in, say, Southern gospel. I think 50-50 is a better, more  realistic ratio. He does address the problem of Christian musicians going  out into the world and &quot;backsliding&quot; by the proposal of creating  a &quot;traveling pastor&quot; ministry to go on tour with the musicians.  All in all, a very thought-provoking book.	2000-07-09
US	52542864	R3N8MRH82A7CVE	0312253990	8150654	Lost in the Cosmos: The Last Self-Help Book	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Brilliant and unique	Don't be fooled: this is not a self-help book that gives you all the  answers. Maybe it gives you no answers. Or, to be more precise, it gives  you multiple answers. In its &quot;multiple-choice test&quot; format, this  book imparts truth in a wickedly funny, subversive way. This is a  &quot;self-help&quot; book that is truly about the self, in interaction  with other selves, that basically asks the compound question &quot;Who are  we and why are we the way we are?&quot; Percy's insight into the human  condition is uncommonly perceptive.	2000-07-09
US	52542864	R3NF006YOPIG5Y	1573227218	290811427	Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Engrossing and interesting	This book comes a personal place in the author's journey back to Christian  faith, and is not intended to be &quot;theological&quot; in an academic  sense. This perspective must always be kept in mind while reading this  book, so as to avoid knee-jerk negative reactions from the more  conservative believers (like myself!) Norris does not attempt to give  expanded dictionary definitions of religious terms, like some people may  expect, but she reflects on the terminology in light of her own stuggles to  come to grips with &quot;scary&quot; theologically-infused language. There  is always danger of watering down certain concepts to make them more  palatable, and that certainly occurs here more than once. But as Norris  writes about these concepts from her own experience she sheds a different  kind of light on them and enables the reader to add richness and real-world  dimension to some rather esoteric concepts. I especially liked the short  chapters: there is less meandering onto dubious topics than in her previous  works.	2000-07-09
US	52542864	R2UXQWPEF2FA7E	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Mixed feelings	I had mixed feelings about this book. I appreciate her honesty and her humor, and the fact that she is not afraid to be real, warts and all. I appreciate how far she has come to arrive at a real faith in God,  considering her background. However, I feel that in some areas she has  merely put a spiritual veneer over some of the beliefs that were formed in  her during her radical, drug- and alcohol-fueled past, and it is my belief  she needs to re-examine some of those values in the light of biblical  Christianity. As an evangelical Christian, I am open to learning from  almost anyone as long as I exercise enough discernment to &quot;eat the  meat and spit out the bones.&quot; Anne Lamott needs to use that same type  of judgement, and to learn to seek guidance from other areas than the  liberal wing of &quot;Christianity&quot;.	2000-04-22
US	52542864	R2I984EP72ZQ6K	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An uplifting spiritual odyssey	I believe this is the book that shows Grisham's true spiritual colors. The purity of the Rachel Lane character, and the salvation of a burnt-out, substance-abusing lawyer are set in sharp relief against a hideously  corrupt, money-loving set of potential heirs. As a Christian, I appreciated  the message, although even non-religious people I think can benefit. I  disagree with those who think the ending is weak. I actually got choked up  at the end, and I think many will do the same.	2000-01-16
US	52542864	R38KLX7F13DUUU	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	2	18	22	N	N	Give it to me straight, Doc!	Unlike most of the reviewers, I actually have not gone on this diet yet, at least this time. I did go on it about 20 years ago and lost about 50 pounds, the only negative effect being constipation. After years off being off that diet, and trying about 100 others, I have an unreal amount of  weight to lose. So I picked up the new edition of the book and read it. The  book is about 75% filler, as far as I'm concerned. Maybe that's not such a  bad thing, but Dr. Atkins should have just cut to the chase and spent more  time explaining what the diet actually is. The 14-day induction diet is  explained well, but instead of going on and delineating what the main part  of the diet will be after the two weeks, he launches into a bunch of  garbage again. If he wants to write about yeast infections and stuff like  that, he needs to put it in a different section. He doesn't make a clear  distinction between the main phase of the diet and the maintenance phase. I  consider myself pretty intelligent, but its going to take some work to find  the wheat among the chaff. After I go on this diet, maybe I'll give the  book a higher rating.	2000-01-09
