US	52558032	R1OZPRQFPK4TFY	0373259700	112893467	SOMETHING WILD (THE WRONG BED)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	When Plans Go A-Rye	When Martin popped the question, finance Penny Halloran was a bit underwhelmed.  Where was the zing? The sparkle? The omance?  As she tries to answer these questions, Penny gets the awful feeling that she and Martin might be incompatible in more ways than one. So, in order to get to the bottom of the problem, Penny decides to treat Martin the Passionless to a night like he's never had before. Penny, part-owner of a restaurant, adds <BR>something extra to Martin's regular ham and Swiss on rye and it isn't an extra dollop of mayo. It's an anonymous, mysterious invitation to meet her later that evening on the corner near his building. Sounds promising? It is. Until the suggestive little note inadvertently falls into the hands of Ryan Pierce, Martin's newest employee. His curiosity piqued, Ryan decides to accept the invitation. <br />What follows is a sometimes funny, sometimes poignant, but all-out sizzling love story of two people thrown together by error and how they come to terms with their attraction to each other in the face of obstacles in both their paths. Penny must deal with Martin's proposal and Ryan must deal with his vow not to mix business with pleasure. But obstacles get forgotten as attraction boils over into passion and the two must face <br />Toni Blake gives her readers yet another reason to love romance. Her hero, Ryan. Here's a guy who very easily could have assumed the worst about Penny and made her life miserable. I really liked the way Ms. Blake crafted him and how his actions spoken much louder than his words. Ms. Blake is definitely an author to watch.	2002-03-01
US	52558032	R2PGKRXDW8N2JA	0373710429	912183736	The Maverick (Harlequin Superromance No. 1042)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Love eternal will not be denied.	In a departure from her usual light romantic comedies, author Carrie Alexander stretches her creative wings with The Maverick.  It had been over a decade since Sophie Ryan had last seen Luke Salinger-the day he left her behind: alone and [unknown to him] pregnant.  Over the years, Sophie has managed to keep memories of Luke at bay and get her life back on track.  And she's done all right for herself and her son, Joe.  She's a sheriff's deputy with her ultimate goal to finish getting her degree and say good-bye to Sheriff Ed Warren, a man whose ideas of women leave a lot to be desired. <br />But her peace is shattered the day a silver-and-black Harley sped past her doing well over the speed limit. And riding it was none other than Luke Salinger.<br />Alexander takes two people, who never fell out of love with each other, and throws them into instant turmoil and intrigue: Heath Salinger, who has more than one secret to hide, the mysterious killings of wild mustangs and the lingering doubt over the parentage of Joe Ryan.<br />There were so many times I put this book down because I couldn't read through my tears that it's a wonder I finished it. Poignant and, at times, heartstring-tugging, The Maverick is one of the best stories I've read. And I hope that Ms. Alexander plans on giving us more along this line.	2002-02-24
US	52558032	R9ALZB9VLR0E0	0380816830	639000625	Something Wild	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another winner from Patti Berg	At the end of BORN TO BE WILD, we found Max Wilde discovering his sister had been found.  In SOMETHING WILD, Charity Wilde, takes some R&R from Las Vegas' bright lights and heads to Wyoming to see Max, his wife Lauren and Jack and Sam Remington. She never expected to meet up again with Mike Flynn, the pastor who married Max and Lauren and whom Charity snubbed at the wedding reception. But meet again, they do, and when they do the sparks fly. <br />Mike, a widower for 6 years & now the manager of Sam's ranch (and still a minister), has no intention of ever getting married again. Charity, out to prove to the world that showgirls can indeed be virtuous, has no intention of getting involved with any man. These good intentions are quickly put to the test with the help of Satan. But this Satan is a mustang bent on spiriting away two beautiful & quite expensive horses Jack planned on giving Sam as a gift. Mike is adamant about catching and taming Satan;Charity is just as adamant that some wild things should never be tamed. What ensues is a battle of wills and desire. Mike and Charity develop deep feelings for one another, yet neither is willing to take the final step and make the ultimate show of trust and sacrfice. <br />SOMETHING WILD is a great follow-up to BORN TO BE WILD. The plot is fresh and very much believable; the characters are endearing and sympathetic. There's humor laced with poignancy as the hero and heroine battle their own personal demons as well as one four-legged one. The book left me eagerly anticipating the next one, Logan Wolfe's story. (Logan is Charity's friend in Vegas). <br />For Valentine's Day, treat yourself to SOMETHING WILD.	2002-02-09
US	52558032	R3PKV4UFZZHOSP	0425183017	196239644	The Spiral Path	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very well-written, emotional story	I've long been a fan of Ms. Putney's historical novels. When she made the switch to contemporary, I skipped The Burning Point based on subject matter. With The Spiral Path, this author has given me a book to love as much as I had her earlier stories. Yes, there is still a controversial subject, but one the reader might be better able to get through. <br />I won't reiterate the plot summaries given elsewhere on this page. What I will say is that I couldn't put this book down. A compelling page-turner, the book grabs you from the start and stays with you after you've closed the covers. The author expertly crafts multi-layered lead characters and puts them through an emotional &amp; mental wringer. She augments them with a super cast of supporting characters that adds texture and depth to the story. Her rich descriptions of New Mexico bring the land and its people alive in the minds of the readers<br />This book will easily make my list of best books of <BR>2002. I give it two thumbs up. If Ms. Putney continues to write stories like The Spiral Path, I will continue to read them.	2002-01-24
US	52558032	R1KCCI2BD6425	0821770918	507284609	No Place For A Lady (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Story for a Cold Winter's Night	If the weather outside is frightful, grab a copy of NO PLACE FOR A LADY and curl up near the fireplace for an evening of reading bound to take your mind off the double-digit negative wind chill factor. <br />Molly Riordan's employer, Lady Elizabeth Summersby is in a bind. Literally, her clothes are getting tight and reason for this will make itself known in about 7 or so months. Seems Lady Elizabeth had a brief lapse of descretion at a masked ball and now must face the prospect of traveling to America to wed her partner in imprudence. She insists on taking Molly with her, a decision Molly rejoices in when she discovers that Lady Elizabeth is to travel to the region Molly's father fled to years earlier in hopes of making his fortune. <br />Our travelers encounter problems and setbacks, compounded by the fact that upon reaching their destination, they are set upon by murderous bandits. The stagehand, mortally wounded, intentionally misrepresents Molly as Lady Elizabeth and thus begins an adventure to unravel the mystery surrounding the two women. <br />There are several simultaneous misunderstandings, but the biggest is in regards to Molly's real identity which, when all is revealed, sounded completely plausible to me. In the cast of secondary characters, Lady Elizabeth and Ray Lovejoy are the most enjoyable and the hero's brother, Lance (afflicted with Down Syndrome), is lovingly portrayed. <br />I closed the book with a good feeling; it was definitely not a waste of time to have read it. It is the first book by this author that I've read, but it won't be the last.	2002-01-21
US	52558032	RPOA6PMG3YOIF	0373169035	45203628	Her Passionate Pirate	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hate the Title, Love the Story	This book if definitely an example of how one should not judge the story by its title. Luckily, I'd read a review that piqued my interest enough to overlook the title. I'm glad I did. <br />Cora Prescott, a professor at a North Carolina college, is researching the diaries of a mid-19th century woman whose house Cora now owns and in which the diaries have been found. Rafael Adriano is an archeologist with a penchant for seeking out old ship wrecks. He's positive the original owner of the diaries was romantically linked to the captain of the ship Rafael is searching for and that the diaries will provide clues to the ship's location. He needs to research the diaries, but one thing stands in his way: Cora Prescott.<br />This could have been a story in which an domineering male simply overpowers the female(physically or emotionally) and takes the diaries for himself. However, Ms. Hart gives the reader a story of two people working out a way to arrive at a solution beneficial to both. The characters are assertive without being overly-aggressive and the cast of secondary characters runs the gamut from sweet to slimy. <br />Although I have several of Ms. Hart's previous books in my ToBeRead pile, HER PASSIONATE PIRATE,was the first one I'd read, but I'm already looking forward to her next entry in category romance.	2002-01-21
US	52558032	R1FOKL2T0RM6Y2	1575667118	193915593	Peaches And Screams: A Savannah Reid Mystery (Savannah Reid Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A whole slew of Reids	Savannah Reid is back. Back home, that is. Back in McGill, Georgia for sister Marietta's 3rd trip down the aisle. Savannah's not too keen on wearing the dress Marietta picked out, but she is anxious to see her Gran again and catch up on all that been going on. Unfortunately, what's been going on is all the trouble brother Macon has been getting into. The latest, being arrested for murder, has put a serious crimp in the matrimonial festivities and all eyes turn to Savannah to make things right. <br />This is not cut and dried case. Seems the victim had quite an impressive list of those who hadn't minded seeing him gone. Who to finger? Just when it looks like it just might too much for Savannah to handle, her California cohorts--Dirk and Tammy--show up and with this trio on the path to justice, the murderer just doesn't stand a chance.<br />McKevett gives another entertaining mystery with enough red herrings to throw the reader off and a stellar cast of secondary characters. I was especially pleased to read more about Savannah's family members, especially her mother. We get to meet all the brothers and sisters, learn the particular quirks of each and share the special bond Savannah has with her grandmother. <br />I do hope the author doesn't relegate the Georgia Reids to the back burner when Savannah returns to California. They make a nice addition to an already outstanding mystery series.	2002-01-16
US	52558032	RY14V2LPJA2WJ	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	5	10	15	N	N	The calm before the storm	In this, the 5th book of what has come to be known as The Outlander series, Diana Gabaldon gives the reader a sense of impending disaster. Although nothing horrendous befalls our cast of characters, the book is apocalyptic, nevertheless, with a growing sense of foreboding as the start of The War of Indenpendence looms closer. This doesn't mean that your emotions won't be wrenched. They will. From laughter to heartache, the author manages to evoke them all in the extreme.<br />The Fiery Cross is, at its heart, a string of short stories based in Fraser's Ridge, North Carolina and in the surrounding areas. It brings back the main cast of characters, adds new faces and reunites some of long-lost favorites. We watch as new generations of Frasers evolve and grow, and as Jamie and Claire deal with middle-age. Questions are answered, but yet more are raised. Some threads are tidied up, yet some are left dangling. <br />While some readers have said this is the weakest book, I feel the opposite. I feel the author is setting the reader up for what may be the most explosive volume of this series, when the next installment is released. <br />One note of caution: If you're reading this book without the benefit of the previous 4, you will have a rough time understanding the complete back history. One might want to pick up a copy of The Outlandish Companion, as a refresher or for a quick summary of what has transpired before.	2001-11-22
US	52558032	R27H1D3QL3EUU1	1893896501	796518913	Miracles for Nick	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Needed: One Happily-Ever-After	In \\"Miracles for Nick,\\" author Holly Fuhrmann continues her fairy godmother series with attorney Nick Aaronson as the last one in his family to get a happily-ever-after.  Trouble is, he doesn't want one and he doesn't want romance. The godmothers, however, have something entirely different in store for him and into his path they deposit one Ms. Glory Chambers. <br />Glory Chambers, newly divorced from an attorney with an eye for well-endowed women, wants nothing to do with romance, either. She's had her fill. And when an aunt she didn't even know she had leaves her a restaurant in another city, she's more than happy to pack up and leave her past behind. The last thing she wants is a relationship with another man, let alone another attorney. But fate, or fairy magic, has a way of re-arranging life. <br />With her new employees' (who strangely have no last names or social security cards) help, Glory re-opens the diner only to have her world turned upside down when the fairies are sued by an un-happy customer. Not wanting to lose her new business, Glory sets about to hire the best lawyer the town has: Nick Aaronson.  They get along like oil on water. But as the case continues, and they are forced together, they begin to view each other in a new and more appreciative light. But even fairy godmothers can't order the two to love each other. There is no guaranteed happily-ever-after. <br />Of the three Aaronson siblings, I like Nick the best, because he was so resistant to love and he really didn't want to believe in the fairy godmothers.  It was fun to watch him and Glory slowly but surely come to grips with their attraction and to finally admit that fairy magic just might exist.	2001-11-05
US	52558032	R3BG3Y2ERJ2AS6	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Story Worthy of a Hero	Heartwrenching. Emotional. Hot. That sums up the last of the &#8220;Men to the Rescue&#8221; trilogy from author Lori Foster.  And saving the best for last, she delivers a story worthy of the man in the hero&#8217;s shoes.<br />Josh Marshall, firefighter and man about town, never missed a chance to razz his best friends when the love bug caught them. But when the tables are turned and the hunky fireman falls head over heels for the woman bent on including him in her charity calendar, it&#8217;s a whole different story.  He knows that below Amanda Barker&#8217;s frosty exterior is a woman waiting for the right man to awaken her passion and he knows that he&#8217;s the one. <br />Amanda has a secret. One that keeps her from enjoying life to the fullest, that drives her to help others, that keeps her from getting close to any man. She&#8217;s absolutely sure that Josh Marshall will prove no different. She&#8217;s heard about his past; he&#8217;s known as quite the lady&#8217;s man. But he&#8217;s out to prove her wrong. And with the right woman, we watch Josh grow into a caring, sensitive and very patient lover. <br />The axiom &#8220;The bigger they are, the harder they fall&#8221; is certainly true in Josh&#8217;s case and when it&#8217;s his turn at the altar of love, he doesn&#8217;t like it one bit when his friends, Mick and Zack, razz him the same way he&#8217;d done to them on many occasions. His testiness makes him believable and endearing. <br />The dialogue&#8217;s snappy and the love scenes are hotter than hot. And Ms. Foster has no equal when it comes to creating friendship, camaraderie and the sometimes wackiness that exists between men who are closer than brothers, bonded together,  in this case, through their professions. <br />In the Dear Reader section in the front of the book, Ms. Foster tells us about her research for the story and how it led to meeting the man who heads up the South Florida Firefighter&#8217;s Calendar Project.  At this time in ourhistory, when the loss of  many of these brave men in New York City is still so vivid in our minds and weighs heavy on our hearts, the chance to help others who have been victims of fires was one I couldn&#8217;t pass up. (...)	2001-10-31
US	52558032	RAG1H2Q4XMYYU	0373790163	201749030	Heat Waves (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The heat is on	\\"Heat Waves,\\" the latest entry into Harlequin Blaze's series, Sexy City Nights, continues what are (in my opinion) the best of the Blaze line.  In this case, it's not so much the sex that's hot, it's the sensual tension and mind games between an investment firm CEO, Ian Carlisle, and an late-night talk show host, Erica McCree, that heat up the pages. \\"Heat Waves\\" proves that love scenes can scorch the page and not leave the reader uncomfortable for reading them. <br />Chicago DJ, Erica McCree, burned up the after-hours airwaves with Chicago's most titillating talk show, Heat Waves. But while she talked a good game, a previous marriage had not only left her wary of surrendering her independence again but with little firsthand sensual knowledge to back up her on-air assertions. Until Ian Carlisle arrived on the scene. <br />Initially only a voice in the night, Ian quickly became aware of the chemistry that sizzled between them when he called in nightly to spar with Erica over whatever topic she'd chosen for the evening.  Erica and her listeners picked up on it, too, and ratings soared.  Since the station had been put on the sale block, everyone wanted to keep the ratings high to attract a buyer, so when Ian proposes they meet in person, Erica's producer seconds the arrangement, resulting in a radio campaign of sexy city nights. With Ian's help, patience and ability to arouse her to new heights, Erica comes to learn not only more about her own sexuality but that not all men are like her ex-husband.  They say the mind is the biggest erogenous zone and Ian proves it to Erica over and over as he gives a whole new meaning to `mind sex.'<br />One of the biggest tests for me in deciding whether I like a book is if I would want to sit down and have dinner with the hero and heroine. \\"Heat Waves\\" rates a definite yes.  While some readers may think Ian a bit too perfect, I was willing to cut him some slack as he hadn't had a smooth road in life. He knew he was lucky to be in theposition he was in and only wanted to help others as he himself had been helped.  \\"Heat Waves\\" is an enjoyable, well-scripted story with characters you can't help but like and provocative love scenes that are best read with a cold drink at hand.	2001-10-21
US	52558032	R2JUY1G90GY4SK	0553582429	812379664	The Royal Hunter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fairy Tales *do* come true	Talia Trahaern, rescuer of animals and an empath, grew up listening to fairy tales her mother told her. Little did she know that they weren't fairy tales, but the recounting of the mother's real life hundreds of years into the future. The bedtime stories were destined to remain pleasant memories until Devlin Archer and his friend, the wizard-like Baleweg, appear at Talia's door, demanding she follow them back to the future to help save their dying queen.<br />To say Talia is skeptical is a gross understatement, but gradually Baleweg convinces her to embrace her 'gift' and Devlin convinces her to embrace him. She finally agrees to help them and they travel to Devlin's world where we find the most wondrous discovery---tooth decay has been completely eliminated. Seriously though, Talia and Devlin work toward saving the pregnant queen's child while fighting off evil forces who would rather see them all gone. All the while, Talia and Devlin grow closer and closer. But a bold move by the opposition threatens to separate them forever. <br />Until &quot;The Royal Hunter,&quot; I had never read a futuristic-type book, but as long as Ms. Kauffman continues to give readers a can't-put-it-down, good-to-the-last-page story such as this one, I will continue to read them.	2001-10-17
US	52558032	R392V5WH1MAFWK	0373259522	674306999	Treat Her Right (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	This book is a treat!	&quot;Treat Her Right&quot; continues where Foster's previous release, &quot;Caught in the Act,&quot; left off-and this time, it's Zack Grange's turn in the hot seat. A widower with a young daughter, Zack has decided that it's time to Look to the future and remarriage. He knows exactly what type of woman he wants for a wife and mother and it's not his new next door neighbor Wynn Lane.<br />Outspoken, physical and eye-to-eye tall as Zack, Wynn finds her new neighbor to be a man worth getting to know better and his little girl adorable.  Unfortunately, although little Dani feels the same way about Wynn, Zack does not.  Or so he thinks. The sparks fly as Zack and Wynn first fight their attraction to each other, then succumb to the inevitable.<br />Lori Foster continues her tradition of giving romance readers everything they could possibly want: sympathetic characters, great dialogue, steamy love scenes and the easy camaraderie of a closely bonded group of men that only she can deliver. The fun continues in her next book, &quot;Mr. November,&quot; in which the 3rd member of the group, Josh Marshall takes his turn in the game of love.	2001-10-17
US	52558032	R2YOI2O1QE7IBL	0373710186	492990857	The Fire Within: America's Bravest (Harlequin Superromance No. 1018)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Courage Under Fire	In the last month, I've found myself checking out books and authors I hadn't in the past. Based on comments from other readers, I decided to pick up &quot;The Fire Within&quot; by Kathryn Shay, Harlequin Supperomance #1018 October 2001, a continuation of her original America's Bravest trilogy. The timing of this release could not have been better for me. <br />Both the hero and the heroine--he a fire department psychologist, she a private psychologist specializing in adolescent behavior--battle private demons from the past (and their attraction to each other) while trying to deal with the present and helping the men and women of the Rockford Fire Department cope with the death of a fellow firefighter in the line of duty. <br />I found &quot;The Fire Within&quot; to be an excellent book. Very apropos for this time. With the events of past month, I found myself wanting to read stories like this. I believe that in the months to come, we will be seeing more with Firefighter/EMS/police heroes, because in *my* book they are the ultimate heroes.  I'm not ashamed to say I cried when the story got to the point where the hero (suffering with PTSD) finally opens up to the first person ever--the heroine--and tells her what happened on that horrific day that changed his life forever. He'd been a real jerk to her for much of the previous story, but at his point, I understood and forgave him.  His was a terrible burden to bear. <br />This is the first book I've read from this author, but I immediately found the rest of her books online and ordered them.	2001-10-14
US	52558032	R3IK1XPBJEMFE4	0373710127	429432224	Mr. and Mrs. Wrong (9 Months Later / Harlequin SuperRomance, No. 1012)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	How can something so wrong be so right?	Lucky and Jack love each other. They just can't live with each other. And it doesn't look like the situation is about to get any better. In fact, it's getting worse. Lucky's pregnant.<br />Erin \\"Lucky\\" Cahill (photographer for small town paper) and her police captain husband, Jack, have been married less than a year and separated for most of the time. Except in bed, they have to be the most mis-matched pair I've ever seen and no wonder they're constantly on opposite sides of the discussion. They are trying to work things out except lust and Jack's secret past life always seem to get in the way. As soon as Jack finds out Lucky is pregnant he insists on moving back in with her. But is it because he loves her or is it only because of responsibility?<br />The story deals with the two of them coming to grips with Jack's past, Lucky's part in sending a man to prison for a murder he may not have committed, their impending parenthood and their love for each other as they work out their differences. The only thing that kept this from being a 5-star for me was the [in my opinion] unfair treatment Lucky gave Jack when she learned about his past, a minor point that many readers may not share. I am looking forward to reading Jack's sister's story, coming in Spring 2002.	2001-10-03
US	52558032	R1KBAVZNS2AESL	0373244266	596384243	His Little Girl's Laughter (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1426)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dad and daughter need lots of TLC	And that's just what they get at the Rocky R ranch. Therapist Shannon Collins and her Equine Assisted Therapy program are what Rafe Pierson feels is the last resort in getting his traumatized daughter to speak again. After exhausting all conventional forms of therapy, he turns to the pretty doctor for help. He doesn't make it easy-he's highly skeptical and harboring a great deal of grief himself. With Shannon's patience and love, and the unconditional love of her gentle menagerie, father and daughter learn to again open their hearts to love and to live (and laugh) again. <br />I thank the author for giving her readers a story of warm comfort to read at this time. It never fails to amaze me that Ms. Smith turns out great stories time after time. \\"His Little Girl's Laughter\\" is no exception. A story that alternately tugs on your heart and steams up the pages, it's just the ticket to curl up with in front of the fireplace on these crisp autumn nights.	2001-10-03
US	52558032	R1NR09408RWRW2	0373244266	596384243	His Little Girl's Laughter (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1426)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dad and daughter need lots of TLC	And that's just what they get at the Rocky R ranch. Therapist Shannon Collins and her Equine Assisted Therapy program are what Rafe Pierson feels is the last resort in getting his traumatized daughter to speak again. After exhausting all conventional forms of therapy, he turns to the pretty doctor for help. He doesn't make it easy-he's highly skeptical and harboring a great deal of grief himself. With Shannon's patience and love, and the unconditional love of her gentle menagerie, father and daughter learn to again open their hearts to love and to live (and laugh) again. <br />I thank the author for giving her readers a story of warm comfort to read at this time. It never fails to amaze me that Ms. Smith turns out great stories time after time. \\"His Little Girl's Laughter\\" is no exception. A story that alternately tugs on your heart and steams up the pages, it's just the ticket to curl up with in front of the fireplace on these crisp autumn nights.	2001-10-03
US	52558032	R34QRHVCNKLWF	0373790120	667463942	Body Heat (The Simply Series, Book 4)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	*This* is what a Blaze should be.	Take one message therapist (who works a 2nd job to put her brother through college) and one injured detective (who's a bit less injured than he lets on), add the detective's good-intentioned, matchmaking sister and you've got the recipe for a summer of steamy loving. <br />Jake Lowell had been seriously injured in a drug deal gone bad that also took the life of his partner and friend. The department says he doesn't return until he's fully rehabilitated, but unbeknownst to his sister, Jake's been working hard getting back into shape. He just doesn't want the higher-ups to know yet. He has a plan and he can't execute it if he's back on the job. <br />Brianne Nelson is working two jobs for money to help her brother through school. By day, she's a physical therapist. By night, a waitress at a sidewalk café. The very same café Jake and sister, Rina, frequent regularly. The looks Jake gives Brianne don't go unnoticed by Rina and when she learns what the pretty young woman does during the day, Rina hatches a scheme that gets the two of them together.   <br />Brianne's intent on getting Jake back into shape, but all Jake can think about is getting Brianne into the whirlpool and all the fun they could have. To Brianne, Jake is all that's erotic and arousing, but with it comes the insecurity and uncertainty of a man dedicated to the law. Brianne evoked in Jake a warm feeling he hadn't felt in a long time, but he knew she, like his ex-wife before, didn't want to give her heart to a man who might not come back for supper. But for the summer, they'd revel in each other, take each other to new heights of ecstasy. <br />Their plans, however, take a dark detour when the drug dealer who injured Jake and killed his partner starts stalking Brianne. Will Jake be able to intervene in time to save the woman he's come to love? BODY HEAT lives up to the Blaze name with blazing hot love scenes between two impassioned characters. A masterful blend of emotion, good plotting and a good supporting cast, including a Sharpei named Norton, make for a standout story.	2001-09-15
US	52558032	R1MNOQWEWIS8F9	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Love Story That Spans Centuries	Gwen Cassidy wanted to change her life and experience the ecstasy of desire and so she books a vacation to Scotland. But things were looking bleak: all her travel mates were senior citizens and just when she thought it couldn't get any worse, she falls through a crevice right onto a body. Not just any body, mind you, but a 6½ foot Highlander in all his glorious condition. Trouble is, he's been asleep for 500 years.<br />Drustan MacKeltar, a old-school Druid, had been put under a spell, asleep until awakened by his savior: a unlikely, wee lass whose spunkiness more than made up for her lack of height. The two of them embark on an odyssey through the 20th century as Gwen helps Drustan return to his family home in the hopes of returning to his own time. Along the way, Drustan gets a quick lesson in future history, current fashion trends and the way of modern women. Gwen learns what it was she wanted in a man and eventually the desire and love she so craved.<br />They stand within the circle of magic stones and Drustan prepares to go back in time only to have something go wrong with his calculations. Within moments, Gwen finds herself in 1518 Scotland with her Highland laird. Except he has no memory of her and they find themselves pitted against a nameless enemy bent on destroying them both.<br />This is the first book I've read by this author, but it won't be the last. Ms Moning's flair for creating likeable and sympathetic characters, snappy banter between the characters and detailed research (as noted in the list of source books used for research) all come together to form a delightful story that will stay with the reader long after the book is finished.	2001-09-15
US	52558032	R19KKMXJHXVOED	0373834691	106832275	Caught In The Act (Men to Rescue)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Get caught reading this book.	In *Caught in the Act*, Lori Fosters first single title, we re-visit old friends from previous books and are introduced to a couple more who will get their own stories in the upcoming months. But the main focus is on Mick Dawson, undercover cop, and Delilah (Call me Del) Piper, mystery writer. After Mick has spent a couple of weeks longingly watching Del jog each morning, he finally works up the nerve to introduce himselfonly to get caught in a botched jewelry story holdup. While trying to protect Del, Mick is seriously injured and when he needs some nursing, Del volunteers. Theres something about Mick that attracts Del and rather than question the sanity of taking this stranger home with her, she goes with her instincts. Mick improves and the sexy writer drives him to the brink of insanity with her attention to his most basic needs. They forge a bond that gets stronger as the story goes on, so when Mick discovers that the robbery wasnt the usual sort of heist and that someone is out to kill Del, he turns from lover to fierce protector. His resolve is strengthened when they learn someone is watching every move they make, especially their bedroom moves.<BR>Before the story ends, near tragedy forces both to re-examine what their relationship means to each of them and where they go from that point on. *Caught in the Act* reunites Mick with Dane and Angel Carter from *Beguiled*, Alec and Celia Sharpe from *Wanton*, and introduces Zack Grange and Josh Marshall. In addition to being a hot romantic story, this book is a return to the brotherhood of male friends as found in the Buckhorn Brothers series and which this author does so well. The camaraderie touches your heart and the interaction and banter amongst this tight knit circle of males is what makes this book a keeper. I'm looking forward to Zach in *Treat Her Right* and Josh in *Mr. November*, both released later this year.	2001-08-31
US	52558032	REVI1V0X1X5TQ	0373259468	747316381	Heat Of The Night	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Putting a Spin on Love	Heat of the Night (Donna Kauffman's latest Temptation) features a police detective hero and a public relations heroine and what a beautifully matched duo they are, both in terms of sexuality and intelligence. Both as sharp as tacks and both with some hot fantasies that involve the other. When a city official is found murdered in eyebrow-raising circumstances, Brady O'Keefe is hot to find the perp before the mayor's reelection hopes burst like soap bubbles. But he's hindered by Erin Mahoney (former classmate and the mayor's PR consultant) whose fledgling PR firm could really use the publicity that a job well-done would generate. It's obvious that neither will be able to do their job until they indulge their fantasies and put out the fire that smolders between them. The love scenes are intensely hot and both Brady and Erin find much more than they'd bargained for. The banter between Brady and Erin kept the book going at a fast clip and made for a book that was hard to put down. The cast of secondary characters added spice and variety and the murder mystery was plotted well. Ms. Kauffman's talent and her love for the characters made Heat of the Night one of the best of the summer.	2001-08-27
US	52558032	R2U62UZR2UK6RC	0373271662	51355676	Plain - Jane Princess (How to Marry a Monarch) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1096) (Intimate Moments, 1096)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Story To Hug to Your Heart	All Princess Sophie of Carpathia wanted was some time living like a normal person before she returned to her country, married the man who'd proposed (but whom she didn't love) and resumed her duties as one of the royal family. Well, she got her wish and landed smack dab in the middle of Steve Koleski's life. Steve, electrician (and darned good photographer) and guardian of his best friend's 5 kids doesn't know who the woman with the strange hair and clothes is, but he does know that after running through a handful of housekeepers in a matter of weeks, he wasn't about to look a gift in the mouth. So, when Sophie (now aka Lisa Stone) offers her service for two weeks, he hesitates but not for long. A person would have to be blind not to see the rapport she had with kids. So, Steve gets his housekeeper and Lisa gets her two-week in the real world. Little did either know that both would get the lesson of a lifetime in the game of love or that along the way both would learn what is really important in life-and sometimes it's not what we think it is. Sophie must decide whether or not to accept the proposal of a man she likes but doesn't love and Steve must make the painful decision over whether to pursue his dream of photography or stay and take over the family business. I read the book during a time when a medical problem had me wanting a comfort read, and Plain-Jane Princess gave me exactly what I needed. I loved the hero, Steve and the banter between him and Sophie/Lisa is priceless at times. The author's knack for internal dialogue is amazing, especially for Steve. *His* dialogue, both external and internal had me laughing many times throughout the book. He's an honest, caring man with a wicked sense of humor (much comes through in internal dialogue, which for me in a lot of cases is much funnier). Plain-Jane Princess more than deserved its 4 Top Pick Rating from Romantic Times Magazine. If this book isn't nominated for awards, there is no justice in this world. Ms. Templeton, you've outdone yourself. Thank you for giving readers a story that will stay with them long after the last page is read.	2001-08-25
US	52558032	R1Y7SJC0U65ARB	0373195362	495249358	Doctor In Demand (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Popular veteran author delivers another good story	Prolific Silhouette author, Karen Rose Smith, adds another satisfying love story to her list with Doctor in Demand. <br />Dr.Dane Cameron, wounded physically and emotionally, travels to the desert of New Mexico to heal and start life over as best he can. He's hired by Dr. Maria Youngbear-single mom of a 2-year-old daughter-to help out in a small clinic, but little do either know that the help they both secretly seek will come in the form of opening their hearts to new love. <br />In Doctor in Demand, we catch up with the activities of some of the characters in Ms. Smith's previous stories and are once again taken to the magical desert Southwest. Having lived in the area myself, I doubly enjoy the stories Ms. Smith sets there. <br />This author never fails to deliver satisfying stories about everyday people whose lives are changed by love. Her characters are as-big-as-life and believable without over-the-top macho men and trash-talking women. And I already have her next book, His Little Girl's Laughter, marked to buy.	2001-08-19
US	52558032	R1K894393JWKQI	0373790082	407389182	Exposed	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One incredible, sexy story.	EXPOSED is one of the first four inaugural books in the new Blaze line from Harlequin. Having been a fan of this author for a long time, I was really looking forward to her contribution and I wasn't disappointed at all. As in her previous books, Ms. Leto gives us a steamy but not over-the-top love story with likeable characters in a well-plotted, believable story, this time with a touch of mystery added. <br />Ariana Karas is a successful San Francisco restaurateur; Max Forrester makes a name for himself in real estate. Each has been covertly eyeing each other for a year or so each time Max stops by Athens by the Sea, but Max is about to marry a friend (think along the lines of a marriage of convenience). So nothing is more shocking than finding Ariana in his bed the next morning. Not only can he not remember much from the night before [other than it was one heck of a night], but it seems his bride-to-be had bolted for parts unknown prior to the ceremony, leaving behind a cryptic message. <br />Both Ariana and Max are good people who find themselves the targets of a deliberate set-up, a set-up that could ruin them both. They join forces to uncover the truth and in the process discover some startling and sizzling truths about themselves, not the least of which is the incredible sexual fire that ignites between them. <br />I knew I was going to like this book when I stayed up way too late at night reading. Ms. Leto evoked sympathy from me for Ariana and Max. They'd both been deceived and poor Max could have died from the drug in his drink, yet instead of flying off on a quest of vengeance, both showed maturity in dealing with the problem. <br />A good cast of secondary characters and some red herrings in the mystery add depth and tension to the story. <br />A final note of warning: You may never look at your clothes dryer in quite the same way ever again.	2001-08-14
US	52558032	RS8KFGTOB1NBE	0743204697	940771299	The Woman Next Door	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A story filled with surprises	Barbara Delinski delivers a powerful tale of friendship, love, trust, suspicion and faith in a story that centers around a young pregnant widow on a quiet cul-de-sac.  When no one can discover who the father is, the marriages of the other 3 couples on the street are tested--as well as the friendships that have evolved amongst the neighbors. Each couple makes a decision based on what is really important in their marriage and in life's scheme of things. Several sub-plots add richness and tension.	2001-08-10
US	52558032	R1OQSVBGKS4MI1	0804119511	168651540	What to Do About Annie?	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Corrected Review	My apologies to the author for the errors made in the review submitted previously. This review corrects those errors.<br />By the time Id gotten about 100 pages into this book, I knew it was not going to be a lighthearted continuation of the story of Mary and Dan [THE TROUBLE WITH MARY]. Instead, I was finding WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE to be a poignant story that caused my heart to ache for the younger Joe &amp; Annie, unable to share their pain that lived within them for 15 years with any of their family or friends. <br />Joe Russo, a former priest, had entered the priesthood 15 years prior, in a misguided attempt to atone for his sins. Over the course of the years, he discovered that in order to atone, he had to seek the forgiveness of the woman he never stopped loving but from whom he ran when the going got tough. Annie Goldman loved Joe with all her soul and hasnt gotten over the devastating effect of his defection. She wants to hate him, but she just cant.<br />Having a former priest as hero smacks of reality; of how most of us have good intentions but in our desire to 'do the right thing' and correct our mistake, we make another mistake.  Some men enter priesthood for the 'wrong' reasons. At least Joe realized this, although it took him 15 years to reach that point. In my opinion, Annies anger was well-founded; she had ever reason to still be livid with him. How they work out their problems and re-discover each other and the love that never went away results in a engrossing story that you won't be able to put down.<br />Now---the families . . . Annies mother, Gina, suffers from nothing more than hypochondria brought on by extreme loneliness. But Joes mother, Sophia! I kept hoping for a major maternal epiphany for Sophia, but it was not to be. I detected not one redeeming quality in her. This, however, only reinforced my sympathy for Joe and Annie. I was glad to see Joe and his father, Frank, speak up to Sophia and to do so forcibly. Just too bad it took so long to get to that point.<br />All that said, this is another two-thumbs up book from this author. Not as light-hearted as THE TROUBLE WITH MARY, WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE is just as satisfying a story that will tug on your heartstrings and leave you with a warm feeling at the end. But I would like to know just *what* Annies wedding dress was made of!<br />My only quibble is with the cartoon-y covers. I suppose theyre here to stay for a while, but I wish the publishers would at least get the basics right. I dont believe Annie had long hair until the very end (with extensions) and there was no cat that I remember, but there was a dog. <br />At the end of the book, theres a sneak peek at THE TRIALS OF ANGELA, coming next year. I was pleased to see the story features my favorite character, Joes Grandma Flora. Tough and outspoken, she takes great delight in putting Sophia firmly in her place.	2001-08-04
US	52558032	R3IGV7QKNW2FZC	0804119511	168651540	What to Do About Annie?	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Good mix of lighthearted and bittersweet	By the time I'd gotten about 100 pages into this book, I knew it was not going to be a lighthearted continuation of the story of Mary and Dan. Instead, I was finding THE TROUBLE WITH ANNIE to be a poignant story that caused my heart to ache for the younger Joe &amp; Annie, unable to share their pain that lived within them for 15 years with any of their family or friends. <br />Joe Russo, a former priest, had entered the priesthood 15 years prior, in a misguided attempt to `atone' for his sins. Over the course of the years, he discovered that in order to atone, he had to seek the forgiveness of the woman he never stopped loving but from whom he ran when the going got tough. Annie Goldman loved Joe with all her soul and hasn't gotten over the devastating effect of his defection. She wants to hate him, but she just can't.<br />Having a former priest as hero smacks of reality; of how most of us have good intentions but in our desire to 'do the right thing' and correct our mistake, we make another mistake.  Some men enter priesthood for the 'wrong' reasons. At least Joe realized this, although it took him 15 years to reach that point. In my opinion, Annie's anger was well-founded; she had ever reason to still be livid with him. How they work out their problems and re-discover each other and the love that never went away <br />Now---the families . . . Annie's mother, Gina, suffers from nothing more than hypochondria brought on by extreme loneliness. But Joe's mother, Sophia! I kept hoping for a major maternal epiphany for Sophia, but it was not to be. I detected not one redeeming quality in her. This, however, only reinforced my sympathy for Joe and Annie. I was so glad to see Joe and his father, Frank, speak up to Sophia and to do so forcibly. Just too bad it took so long to get to that point.<br />All that said, this is another two-thumbs up book from this author. Not as light-hearted as THE TROUBLE WITH MARY, But effective, nevertheless. But I would like to know just what Annie's wedding dress was made of!<br />My only quibble is with the cartoon-y covers. I suppose they're here to stay for a while, but I wish the publishers would at least get the basics right. I don't believe Annie had long hair until the very end (with extensions) and there was no cat that I remember, but there was a dog. <br />At the end of the book, there's a sneak peek at THE TRIALS OF ANGELA, coming next year. I was pleased to see the story features my favorite character, Joe's Grandma Flora. Tough and outspoken, she takes great delight in putting Sophia firmly in her place.	2001-08-03
US	52558032	RSRANBZK0NPLA	031226982X	806283860	The Last Time I Saw Paris	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good Beach Book	No, it won't inspire great debates nor deep philosophical introspection, but THE LAST TIME I SAW PARIS will provide the reader with a fast, light story good for a day or two of beach reading.  Character-driven, it's premise seems to be that if it can go wrong, it will. <br />When Lara Lewis finds that her doctor-husband of 25 yrs has decided to blow off the plans they'd made to re-create their French honeymoon to take up with his assistant, Lara decides to go ahead with the trip anyway as a way of finding herself. But she's not going alone. She asks along the young carpenter who's been working to repair her porch. Dan Holland sees in Lara everything her husband has overlooked and finds himself falling for the older woman with the air of sadness about her. The two embark on what Lara thinks of as re-tracing her honeymoon, while Dan, unaware of Lara's motives, thinks this is the first time she's been in France. Every Murphy's Law comes into play and the two learn more about each other than perhaps was good for them to discover after knowing each other such a short time. <br />Some may find the premise a bit unbelievable and others will view Lara as wimpy. I didn't think she was wimpy as much as she'd been `walked over' by her domineering husband. In the end, she not only finds herself, self-confidence, and real love, but she finds the courage to be her own woman. <br />My biggest complaint was the use of too many French phrases, both in dialogue and in description of countryside and foods/drinks. I'll admit that toward the end, I was skipping over them. This won't keep me from checking out this author's next book, though.	2001-07-30
US	52558032	R7TBGXGRNOBAX	0373259441	106928186	Wild Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.) (Temptation, 844)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great conclusion to a fun series	With WILD FANTASY, Janelle Denison brings to a satisfactory close the 4-book series, Fantasies, Inc, which she started off with SEDUCTIVE FANTASY. WILD FANTASY defines the tag line for the 4-island resort [\\"Anything goes\\"] with everything a fantasy should be: seductive and maybe a bit outrageous. <br />Mitch Lassiter has taken care of his family since his dad died, never paying much attention to his needs. That is . . . until his mother steps in and makes an R&R offer he doesn't refuse mainly because part of the R&R involves a certain Nicole Britton, for whom Mitch has lusted after for years.  Nicole has spent her entire life trying to gain her father's approval, trying to be better than her brother is. When her mother and Mitch's propose they compete as a team in Wild Fantasy's charity event to win money for Breast Cancer Awareness, Nicole's fiercely competitive nature and Mitch's desire to spend time with Nicole set the stage for a sexy encounter in which both characters learn much about each other and even more about themselves. The outcome of the weeklong event, in which teams compete against each other in increasingly difficult competitions, is very different than what all had expected. Nicole learns a valuable lesson: One should do what one feels in their own heart is right and not to please someone else.  And although I liked the resolution to Nicole's feelings of inferiority and low self-worth, I wanted her father to be more contrite about how his actions negatively impacted his daughter's life.<br />In a parallel plot that ran throughout the entire series, there was also a sweet resolution to the Merrilee-C.J. story. Personally, I'd have preferred a goodly dash of sizzle added to the sweet, but it worked and was satisfactory. <br />Look for more from this author when her Blaze! release, Heat Waves, hits the stands in October.	2001-07-29
US	52558032	R2J7DVEH4D3N7L	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	5	122	129	N	N	A great debut in traditional romance	Her Black Lace books have won legions of fans and now author Emma Holly brings her own special brand of sensual adventures to traditional romance with her first novel, BEYOND INNOCENCE.  The author easily surpasses other authors of erotic romance in this book filled with multi-layered characters, a plot with meat to it and steamy love scenes that are not just page fillers but actually advance the story. <br />When Florence Fairleigh travels to London in 1873 to meet with her recently deceased father's solicitor, little did she know that the meeting would have far-reaching implications that would affect her life forever. Originally thinking to secure a position as perhaps a governess or teacher, Florence is, instead, thrust into London's social whirl in a plot to encourage a marriage for young Freddie Burbrooke, in the hope of settling him down and sparing him society's censure. In the process, Freddie's brother, Edward, earl of Greystowe realizes he has feelings for his brother's intended-feelings that deepen and finally are reciprocated. But can a true and lasting relationship be built on a foundation of lies? <br />As much as I like the eroticism of this author's work, in this instance I especially enjoyed the warm relationship between the two brothers, the caring and concern Edward (the older) had for his younger, homosexual brother, Freddie. It softened Edward's dark, stern outward personality and made him more real. <br />BEYOND INNOCENCE hooked me from the first page and never let me down. I found myself reading long after I would have put another book down for the night just to discover how the situation would resolve itself. Emma Holly's Black Lace books are all on my `keeper' shelf and now that she's taken her skill and talent into the traditional field, it looks as if I may have to add more space on the shelf.	2001-07-24
US	52558032	R24PE4V3Q7U4OG	0373244002	556459303	Shelter In A Soldier's Arms (That Special Woman!) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A strong woman; an extraordinary love story	Shelter in a Soldier's Arms by Susan Mallery<br />After reading and enjoying Ms. Mallery's single-title debut, SWEET SUCCESS, I looked forward to trying out her latest category and I wasn't at all disappointed. Ashley Churchill, a widow and single mom, suddenly finds herself very ill and homeless (thanks to a broken water pipe that destroys her apartment). When the owner of the business she cleans offers her and her daughter a place to stay and a job, she accepts with the intention of it being only until she can get back on her feet. But by the time she regains her health, she finds herself falling for her virile, secretive employer<br />Jeff Ritter has seen the worst life has to offer. The take-charge former soldier, now top-notch security expert, possesses a cool, aloof demeanor that is essential to his job. Never did he figure that one little girl and her mother would melt his heart and show him the meaning of love. But the hazards of his job and the nightmares that haunt his nights threaten to keep Ashley from him forever unless he can find a way to reconcile the two very different parts of his life. <br />The author gives the readers multi-faceted characters in a story that has humor, gut-wrenching emotion, and sizzling passion. This is a great book for a reader looking to really get involved in a reading experience. The main secondary character, Zane Rankin, is pure delight and deserves his own book. I do hope Ms. Mallery can conjure up a heroine worthy of him.	2001-07-09
US	52558032	R3CD10VSQL3P1Q	0373259409	15851435	Intimate Fantasy (Harlequin Temptation No. 840)(Fantasies Inc.)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One man, two identities.	In an effort to save her family's business, Kyra Cartright has decided to accept a proposal of marriage to a business acquaintance for whom she has feelings but not of the toe-tingling variety. Before she tells him \\"Yes,\\" she decides to indulge in one final breakaway weekend on Intimate Fantasy Island--never realizing that her wildest fantasies were about to change her life forever.  <br />Tony Moretti made his livelihood saving other peoples' lives. But in the space of one afternoon, he lost not only his life's work, but also his health and self-confidence. Scarred and in pain, he accepts his friend's offer of R&amp;R at Intimate Fantasy island before settling down to life without the thrills he'd become used to. By day, he lounged around the pool, but by night he morphed into the mysterious Michael, an unidentified man who traveled in the shadows and rescued those who had gotten into trouble. And one of those is Kyra. <br />Kyra finds reality far better than her fantasy in the arms of Michael, a man with masterful bedroom skills. And by day, she finds a wonderful friend in Tony, a man whose scars are overlooked in favor of that special `something' about him that draws her closer and closer. <br />Afraid the truth will ruin all he's accomplished so far, Tony holds back and doesn't tell Kyra of his alter ego. A boating excursion turns deadly, prompting questions and revelations and, for Tony, the point where he must decide to risk it all and tell Kyra the truth. <br />Julie Kenner creates a tender and passionate love story with two very real people, each faced with life-altering events, in a story line that is both credible and heart tugging. My heart melted for Tony, whose life of a firefighter has gone from the heroic to the mundane as he contemplates a desk job and can't quite handle it. Kyra is just what he needed to gain back his self-confidence and zest for life. She saw past the scars and the pain to the real man inside. A man who *does* make her toes curl!	2001-07-08
US	52558032	R3TLAVICYW1MX3	0373259395	310615954	Smooth Moves	Books	5	1	1	N	N	He's back and he's [still] bad.	Zack [Smooth Operator] Brody is back and the town's womenfolk are all atwitter because in his 'glory days' Zack had a penchant for romancing and then bailing out. Unfortunately, the last woman to fall victim was his bride, Laurel, who never forgave and never forgot and vows to seek revenge for the humiliation Zack put her through. She enlists the help of the town's women, who unanimously elect town newcomer &amp; shop owner, Cathy Timmerman as the revenge tool of choice. To aid in the seduction, the women give Cathy a complete makeover. Gone are the glasses and shapeless apron dresses she wears for work. In their place are contacts and totally &quot;glam&quot; clothes. <br />But she has a secret. She may be new in town, but she's no stranger to Zack and something tells her that something's wrong with the picture Laurel is painting of Zack. And despite the new look, she's still the same woman as before, one whose doubts about Laurel's story continue to deepen as the story unfolds. On top of all this, she's had a crush on Zack since he'd rescued her years before while swimming. And so she agrees to the routine the women outlined, neglecting to tell them she has her own agenda: She has no intention of dumping Zack after the seduction. Poor Zack has no premonition of what is about to hit him. <br />As the story unfolds, we learn more about the disastrous wedding-day-that-wasn't, about Zack's family [especially his brother Adam &amp; the role he played] and about Cathy's sense of justice. <br />It's been too long a wait for a Carrie Alexander book, but SMOOTH MOVES was well worth it. The conversations flowed fast and furiously and got more than one laugh out of me. The love scenes, in true Alexander fashion, sizzle. The hero and heroine are sympathetic characters, and the 'woman scorned' was, I felt, quite deliciously diabolical. I feel the author should make Laurel the subject of her own book and perhaps learn the true meaning of love. A bit of groveling wouldn't hurt either. &lt;grin&gt;	2001-07-07
US	52558032	ROCEOPN318XSE	0373259360	61248692	Secret Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sexy and Seductive	Do *you* have a secret fantasy?<br />I do. But it's better left secret. &lt;grin&gt;  Instead, I'm content to read and enjoy the stories in Harlequin's Fantasies, Inc. series. Carly Phillips' entry, SECRET FANTASY, is no exception. <br />Reporter Doug Houston's fantasy is to become part of Juliette Stanton's fantasy. Along the way, he hopes to uncover the real reason she fled her wedding and re-establish his credibility as a reporter after a bad lead wreaks havoc with his professional integrity. <br />Juliette Stanton, aka Runaway Bride, is desperate to find some peace and quiet. Away from the media hounds that smell the scent of scandal and will stop at nothing to ferret out the truth behind her run from a marriage to an influential politician. Little did she know that that the dark-haired charmer selected to play the key role in her fantasy was only after one thing: Her story. But as Doug gets to know Juliette better, he realizes there is more to life than `a story.' And along the way, both learn to follow their hearts. <br />I've been a fan of Ms. Phillips for a long time and SECRET FANTASY didn't disappoint me. Her characters (who come alive with real problems and real dialogue) work to overcome the odds, culminating in a fulfilling and satisfying ending. Fans will be happy to learn that this author has an upcoming entry in the Blaze! Sexy City Nights series, titled Body Heat. I was lucky to have received an advance reading copy and can only say that if Body Heat is any indication of the quality of the new Blaze! imprint, then readers have much to look forward to.	2001-07-07
US	52558032	R2P6W0A59QZ4BF	0373195230	356804305	Her Tycoon Boss	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Lot of Story in a Small Book	I devoured this book in one sitting and as in the past, Ms. Smith has penned an emotional, riveting story with all sorts of good stuff packed into 186 pages. <br />In her latest, Smith continues her tradition of throwing strong characters (Dina Corcoran and Mac Nightwalker) into a compelling plot and adding keeps-you-reading motivation and conflict.  Dina, a struggling single mom, faces obstacles that tear at the hearts of moms everywhere. And Mac's reticence to become romantically involved is adequately and reasonably explained. Add to this a common denominator between hero and heroine, and the fact that Mac and Dina move in circles far removed from each other and the stage is set for the power of love to conquer all. <br />I was first introduced to this author with her BE MY BRIDE? and now have bags and bags of her backlist. I'd recommend this author to anyone looking for a fulfilling read with sympathetic characters, believable plot and a warm, satisfying resolution.	2001-06-17
US	52558032	R8KW31DB6AAOP	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good in Bed is Good Reading	Jennifer Weiner's first book, GOOD IN BED, made me glad I didn't wait for the paperback edition. When Cannie Shapiro tells her boyfriend she thinks they need time apart for a while, little did she know that her ex's chronicling of their sex life would make her name a household name and change her life forever. <br />A woman whose father had turned his back on his family, mother has come out of the closet, Cannie nevertheless has found life not-too-hard-to-take and had even come to terms with life in her non-single-digit dress size. But being publicly humiliated in print by her ex-boyfriend was more than she could bear. She sets off on a series of adventures that range from the sublime to the distressful and sorrowful. Cannie has a great group of supporting character, some human-some not, who add spice and richness to the story. <br />Sometimes funny, sometimes heartbreaking, GOOD IN BED is a story about a women filled with an intense inner strength, who draws upon that strength to get her through some of the darkest moments of her life. I was cheering for Cannie the whole way and she came through like a champ. <br />I'm already looking forward to the author's next book. I do hope I don't have to wait too long.	2001-06-17
US	52558032	R2CRPEQFW3PHOD	0821771108	205819355	Making Over Mike (Regency contemporary romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Humor and Heartbreak	Rarely does an author make my auto-buy list after only one try. Lisa Plumley is one of these elite few who landed decisively with her latest release, MAKING OVER MIKE.<br />The owner of a struggling start-up company, Aspirations, Inc, Amanda Connor is desperate. Unless she can come up with the winner of her Life Coach Lotto promotion, she can kiss her dreams and aspirations goodbye. Her chance for success rests solely on a local news station's offer to track one of her clients through a whole-life makeover and, if successful, translate that into a weekly TV spot for Amanda.<br />Taxi-driver(aka unemployed chef) Mike Cavaco is just trying to make ends meet while he searches for the right employment opportunity after having discovered that \\"good intentions\\" mean nothing. However, his \\"good intentions\\" again turn his life upside down when he finds 16 tickets for the Life Coach Lotto stuffed in the back seat of his cab. Being an honest guy, Mike feels it's his responsibility to turn them in so the rightful owner can claim them. No premonition told him he was in for the ride of his life. <br />Amanda's first reaction to the ripped-jeans-stained-T shirt-scruffy-shaggy apparent winner of the contest, \\"Oh, no. Not the taxi guy,\\" quickly dissolves into determination and resolve when she realizes what a coup this would mean for her business and her future. And determination is what Amanda needs lots of to get Mike to agree, as `makeover' is not a word found in Mike Cavaco's personal vocabulary. But something about Amanda sticks with him and refuses to leave and Mike finds himself reluctantly agreeing.     <br />Mike's your typical macho guy and faced with pink fluffy spa robes, manicures, waxing, he certainly could have become nasty about all of it. But the author refrains from devolving him into that category, using humor instead, and for this she put me firmly in love with this guy. As the makeover progresses, and he learns more about Amanda, Mike finds himself becoming more and more attached to his Life Coach. And despite her rule to never get involved with a client, Amanda finds herself falling deeper and deeper for the scruffy cab driver.  <br />At times the story is hysterically funny [the scene in a restaurant/pool hall where Amanda and Mike wager a game of pool with Mike's motorcycle/pool shark friends is priceless], poignant [the transformation of the Mike's friends, the dreams Mike and Amanda have and the motivation that drives them], and heart wrenching [as Mike and Amanda come to grips with what they've come to mean to each other]. Their struggle to resolve the crisis in their lives that this makeover has created leads to some difficult choices for both and to a final scene that had my eyes a bit misty even as I smiled. <br />MAKING OVER MIKE evoked my every emotion and made me thankful for authors such as Ms. Plumley-who proves it is possible to craft a story filled with strong, believable, sympathetic characters without resorting to the crude and uncouth. These are the kind of characters with whom I'd like to have as friends in real life. If you're a fan of Patti Berg or Millie Criswell, you will love Lisa Plumley's MAKING OVER MIKE. And thankfully, you won't have to wait too long for her next book, FALLING FOR APRIL, which will be out in March 2002. It's already on my list of books to buy in 2002.	2001-06-13
US	52558032	R26UWJKDI73JI8	0373259352	20750460	Insatiable (Heat)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mmmm,mmmm,good!	We last saw Samantha Deveaux in PURE CHANCE with her sister Serena. Sam is back in New Orleans to start a new life away from her father and Hollywood's glitz. In order to make ends meet, she takes a security job for Supermarket Expo. How bad could it be? But she didn't bargain for Pasta Guy!<br />Dominick LaRocca's life was never the same after his grandmothers put him on the label of the family company's tomato sauce jar in an attempt to get him settled down. Well, life is anything but settled for Nick and is about to get even more so when Sam &quot;Just-Doing-My-Job&quot; ends up rescuing him from hordes of screaming women and ends up with a piece of his heart. <br />INSATIABLE defines the Temptation Heat tagline: Sassy,Sexy,Seductive. The shower scene alone is worth the price of the book. The characters and the story premise are delightful. Ms. Leto has another winner with more on the horizon.	2001-06-04
US	52558032	RCXRL2D4PLWBP	0743405951	571244133	Sweet Success (Pocket Star Books Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Tempting Summertime Treat	Allison Thomas is the sweetheart of Santa Magdelana, California. The owner of a shop whose chocolates outshine the Grande Dame of decadent chocolate indulgences, Allison has a soft heart for anyone a bit down on their luck and clients of the local spa, to whom she `smuggles' chocolates on a regular basis. Her track record with men, however, is wretched, a fact that piques her mother no end, as Charlotte Elizabeth Thomas wants grandchildren and since her son, Rick, is gay, Allison is her only hope, which she continually reminds her daughter. Into her life walks handyman, Matt Baker, and from the first, Allison senses there is much more to Matt than meets the eye. But Matt refuses to answer questions, preferring to do his work then retire to his room by himself.<br />Little by little, Matt's story emerges as he begins to open up, aided by Allison's caring nature. We learn he's done things he's not proud of, that he turned his back on people and walked away, and has been punishing himself ever since. I, for one, did not find his `running away' as heinous as other readers have. Yes, it was drastic and most likely not the best way to deal with his problems, but as I learned more about Matt and his history, the more my heart ached for him. Allison, on the other hand, fears she's falling again for Mr. Oh-So-Wrong. How could she possibly love a man about whom she knew so little?<br />Ms. Mallery puts her characters through their paces as they share their feelings about their dysfunctional families, their pasts and their business methodologies - - and falling in love. In the end, both will need to examine their lives and decide if the sacrifices they must make are worth it. <br />A couple of things bothered me: No matter how heated the moment gets, I want my hero and heroine to protect themselves-especially in this day and age. Matt and Allison engaged in several, \\"What on earth were they thinking?\\" moments. Also, Matt is the sort of guy who needs to `fix' things, which didn't amuse Allison in the least. The fact that Matt, after admitting his background in business, continued to insist she change her way of operating her business, annoyed Allison and me. In her words, \\"This isn't about business, it's about life. I'm not interested in making more money. It's about having a dream and bringing it to reality.\\" For someone as firmly grounded in this way of thinking as Matt was, I didn't see him changing any time soon. The saving grace here is that Allison has a steel backbone. <br />A great cast of secondary characters, of which a porker by the name of Miss Sylvie plays a starring role, rounds out this tale of discovery, sacrifice, and the true meaning of love.	2001-05-28
US	52558032	R3VORNCBP7I13S	0373259328	598819659	Seductive Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	&quot;Be Careful What You Wish For.&quot;	With that warning ringing in Jackson Witt's head, he takes off for Seductive Fantasy Island in the hope fulfilling his fantasy: Exacting revenge on the woman he believes has stolen crucial technical information from his company. And what better way to do it than fulfill her fantasy, then break her heart and walk away? Alexis Baylor is on the verge of making her inherited computer game company a success and figures she needs to reward herself a little. What better way than to indulge her fantasies at Seductive Fantasy Island than with an arranged affair with a handsome stranger - no strings attached. <br />Little did each know they would get much, much more than they bargained for.<br />With Jackson's help, Alexis undergoes a startling transformation from no-nonsense business to the soft and feminine woman underneath. In return, Alexis gives Jackson something he'd always found elusive: a woman who loved him for himself only.  <br />But everything isn't rosy in Paradise, as our two lovebirds will soon discover. Alexis captures Jackson's heart and he's forced  to face some serious questions about his motives. <br />Ms. Denison, in this first in the Fantasies, Inc. mini-series, gives us two likeable characters in a setting where anything goes. I found the whole premise believable and so enticing. The guilt Jackson felt as time went on and the remorse that hit him when it was discovered just exactly what he'd done were right on the mark. It made him totally believable and a very sympathetic character. I quite liked him. <br />SEDUCTIVE FANTASY is a great book to kick off your summer reading schedule.	2001-05-19
US	52558032	R2J79PANXQA5K5	0312261594	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Now, see....I liked it.	I've read several of Heller's books and have enjoyed all of them. FEMALE INTELLIGENCE was no exception. Brandon Brock's initial behavior rang true, as I've known those in management positions who have exhibited the same attitude toward women in the workplace. Only, they weren't as lucky to get a Dr. Lynn Wyman to help them out. <br />Heller presents a wealth of secondary characters, all unique in their quirks and foibles and I thought she did a good job (read= authentic) with Dr. Wyman's musings and opinions regarding these secondary characters. They all acted within character making them believable. <br />The book evoked a range of emotions: humor, disgust, sympathy and shock. I would have liked it, though, if Lynn had come down harder on Kip and Penny. For what they did to her, they deserved, at least, a verbal lashing. In the end, Lynn triumphs, professionally and personally, which is the best revenge of all.	2001-05-08
US	52558032	R1OV6VZ9U622D6	0373036531	5344327	Wedding Secret (Nearlyweds) (Romance, 3653)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Comfort read with likeable characters	When Jenna Phillips' secret came out, she left her husband-to-be at the altar and ended up in a bar in a little town with her wedding dress and not much more. Not about to let her become the target of unwanted advances, Garrett Blackwell offers her his home for one night until she can get things straightened out. Thing is, Garrett soon finds himself hoping she *doesn't* get things straightened out. <br />Garrett and his daughter, Chelsea, grow attached to Jenna, who finds herself falling in love with the handsome engineer and the loveable little girl. They're everything a woman could want. Except Jenna has a secret she knows will hurt Garrett and his family and as she falls more deeply in love, she fears the secret could tear them apart. <br />I found THE WEDDING SECRET a comfort read. In other words, I felt good after I closed the book the last time. The characters are likeable and sympathetic. I wished Garrett would have expressed more sympathy to Jenna as she tells him what she did and why, but it didn't diminish my enjoyment of the story.	2001-05-04
US	52558032	R2VUJ0OQSHU46W	0373259298	167239806	Sex Appeal (Blaze)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Everything I want in a romance book	When I buy a book by Lori Foster, I know I'm going to get a steamy sizzling love story with a healthy dose of humor thrown in. SEX APPEAL gives me all that and more.<br />Shadow Callahan had Brent Bramwell falling at her feet. Literally. When he loses his footing outside her little shop, little did he know he'd later lose his heart to the unconventional lady wearing a sweatshirt that warned, &quot;You've been a bad boy. Go to my room.&quot; Shadow is need of a man. Well, three. That's the number she has left to recruit for her part in the strip mall's Love and Laughter contest and she'd bound and determined to enlist Brent. Brent, on the other hand, is just as adamant about refusing. Not only does he own the strip mall(unbeknownst to Shadow) but entering a Hunk contest is not something a businessman of his stature does. But he doesn't stand a chance against Shadow's determination, especially when he finds himself falling for her romantically.<br />There's trouble brewing, though, when Shadow finds herself being stalked by a man who's insistent that *he* is the one for her. Anonymous phone calls give way to more sinister events, causing Brent to fear for her life. He takes steps to keep her safe, but Shadow bridles at what she sees as his controlling nature.<br />Throw in Brent's snooty ex-girlfriend and his equally snooty parents, add Ms. Foster's sizzling love scenes and the reader is in for a story with more steam than a sauna. Shadow is a woman who can hold her own, whether in the bedroom or restaurant. I applauded her attitude and outlook on life and felt she and Brent were quite well-matched.<br />Lori Foster continues to shine for Harlequin Temptation and I'm looking forward to her first single title for Harlequin, CAUGHT IN THE ACT, coming in September.	2001-05-01
US	52558032	R2W5B5L6IPT3GI	037325928X	387256455	Walk On The Wild Side	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Hero/Heroine Pairing	Sunny Chandler needs to breathe on her own. Left alone by a boating accident that claimed the lives of her parents, she has been raised by her Chicago upper-crust grandparents, groomed (in the process) to take over the prestigious family business. She's spent her life trying to live up to her grandparent's expectations, always reminding herself of the enormous debt she owes them. Yet when it comes time for her take over the reins, she balks, wanting to take some time for herself first, time to breathe on her own. To live a little on her own. She makes a break for it. Literally. Jumping out of the limo (when it becomes apparent that her grandfather has no intention of letting her have some time off.) and running into D'Angelos, a family-run restaurant which, as luck would have it, is in need of a waitress.  <br />Nick D'Angelo has no use for a socialite with no idea of what's needed to wait tables in his restaurant, nor does he have time to train her. But something about the gutsy lady causes him to agree to a probation period. Determined to succeed on her own, Sunny gives it all she has--aided and abetted by Nick's family, most notably Nick's grandmother.<br />Things heat up-and I don't mean just in the kitchen--when Sunny and Nick can no longer deny the attraction between them. But what will happen when Sunny's time is up and it's time for her to take over the family business? How will they be able to reconcile the wide gulf separating their lifestyles and worlds? <br />Throw in a large and noisy group of D'Angelo relatives (all bent on getting and keeping these two together) and you have a recipe for one hot, steamy love story guaranteed to leave you fanning yourself. The hero/heroine pairing is one of the best I've read. Nothing condescending about either, both treating the other with respect and support. <br />I'd never read a Donna Kauffman book and I realize now that I've probably missed out on some really great stories. Fortunately, most of her backlist is still available. And I can't help but hold out hope for Joey D'Angelo's story. Baby of the family and a real live wire!	2001-05-01
US	52558032	R2J6M5GAF6SLAW	0373259298	167239806	Sex Appeal (Blaze)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	SEX APPEAL has it all	When I buy a book by Lori Foster, I know I'm going to get a steamy sizzling love story with a healthy dose of humor thrown in. SEX APPEAL gives me all that and more. <br />Shadow Callahan had Brent Bramwell falling at her feet. Literally. When he loses his footing outside her little shop, little did he know he'd later lose his heart to the unconventional lady wearing a sweatshirt that warned, &quot;You've been a bad boy. Go to my room.&quot; Shadow is need of a man. Well, three. That's the number she has left to recruit for her part in the strip mall's Love and Laughter contest and she'd bound and determined to enlist Brent. Brent, on the other hand, is just as adamant about refusing. Not only does he own the strip mall(unbeknownst to Shadow) but entering a Hunk contest is not something a businessman of his stature does. But he doesn't stand a chance against Shadow's determination, especially when he finds himself falling for her romantically.<br />There's trouble brewing, though, when Shadow finds herself being stalked by a man who's insistent that *he* is the one for her. Anonymous phone calls give way to more sinister events, causing Brent to fear for her life. He takes steps to keep her safe, but Shadow bridles at what she sees as his controlling nature. <br />Throw in Brent's snooty ex-girlfriend and his equally snooty parents, add Ms. Foster's sizzling love scenes and the reader is in for a story with more steam than a sauna. Shadow is a woman who can hold her own, whether in the bedroom or restaurant. I applauded her attitude and outlook on life and felt she and Brent were quite well-matched. <br />Lori Foster continues to shine for Harlequin Temptation and I'm looking forward to her first single title for Harlequin, CAUGHT IN THE ACT, coming in September.	2001-04-29
US	52558032	R1YYPHFGSNS7YN	0380795558	699448118	Looking for a Hero	Books	5	2	3	N	N	&quot;Every good pirate has a plan.&quot;	So states Morgan &quot;Blackheart&quot; Farrell, to some a pirate, to others &quot;Robin Hood of the High Seas.&quot;  When his ship is suddenly caught up in an otherworldly 'Bermuda Triangle,' Morgan finds himself cast ashore on the same island as widow Kate Cameron and her daughter, Casey, have found themselves stranded--all by a hurricane no one else seems to have experienced. Trouble is, he thinks it's 1702 and it's really 1998. Worse--not only did he travel nearly 300 years into the future, but so did his ship and his arch enemy, Thomas Low.<br />Having lived through the tragic loss of her husband, Kate is getting on with her life but definitely not ready to lose her heart to, of all people, a man claiming to be a pirate. But as time passes, events occur that lead Kate to change her mind about Morgan---in more ways than one, as he, at the same time, struggles with choices that will keep him with Kate or send him back to the past without her.<br />With BORN TO BE WILD, Patti Berg became an automatic-buy for me and I was able to obtain all of her backlisted books. LOOKING FOR A HERO has a poignant love story, suspense, revenge, fast-paced delightful and believable dialogue, sympathetic characters and a hero to die for--all woven together in an endearing romantic style that is totally Berg.	2001-04-25
US	52558032	RSS9OYQAMW22E	0373259255	902475381	Seducing Summer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Hero to Die For	SEDUCING SUMMER gives us Summer Avery and Brett Ford, who, after their first night of loving shockingly find themselves with a baby on the way. In a reversal of roles, it's Summer who wants nothing to do with men &amp; marriage and tells Brett she fully intends to raise the baby alone and requires no assistance from him. <br />At first floored, Brett recovers to find himself eagerly anticipating the baby's arrival and wants to be much more than a weekend dad. Furthermore, he's adamant about getting Summer to accept his proposal and she's just as adamant about saying no. <br />But Brett won't take no for an answer and so he sets out to do everything he can to change her answer to yes. This guy is a prince. A knight in shining armor. The kind of guy you dream about and fantasize about. I loved him and I wasn't too happy with Summer's callous and cold treatment of him. Yes, perhaps she had reason, but I thought she went overboard. <br />Brett's family gets into the act with parents and two of the three sisters fully behind Brett and supportive in all the changes he makes in his life. All except his sister Brenda. I'll let the reader form their own opinion of Brenda, but in the end I don't feel she redeemed herself enough. Nor do I think Summer groveled enough for Brett's forgiveness. <br />But these are minor things. Overall, I enjoyed the book very much and think Ms. Blake's star is on the rise. She's certainly an author to watch.  <br />Toni--&gt;&gt; More like Brett, please. &lt;grin&gt;	2001-03-28
US	52558032	R14Y075PW5UOM8	1575666448	58214510	Strawberry Shortcake Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	This book is hazardous to your waistline.	WARNING: Do not read this book while attempting to diet. You're apt to start eating the pages. <br />Following up on her first Hannah Swensen mystery, Ms. Fluke again pits the Cookie Lady against evil forces when Hannah happens upon the body of Lake Eden's sports coach, Boyd Watson. Since Boyd has been known to abuse his wife, she becomes the prime suspect, but good friend that she is...Hannah doesn't believe it. And she sets out to try and find the real killer--of which many seem to fit the bill. <br />Interspersed among her sleuthing are mouth-watering recipes Hannah is using during the televised coverage of the 1st Hartland Flour Dessert Bake-off. Just reading the recipies made visions of Cocoa Snaps dance before my eyes. <br />There are a few interchanges between Hannah and Mike Kingston (who we met in Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder), but not enough to satisfy this reader. &lt;hint hint&gt; However, since the dust cover tells me that Ms. Fluke is working on the next Swensen mystery, perhaps we'll get to see more of Hannah's social life. <br />The author is an automatic-buy for me and I'm looking forward to the next book in this series as I've grown rather fond of the Cookie Lady.	2001-03-28
US	52558032	R39ZGM40XAEKO8	0373195060	238496192	Tall, Dark & True	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another great story from Karen Smith	Ms. Smith is an author who amazes me with the amount of ' deep story' she can pack into 200 pages and TALL, DARK&amp;TRUE is no exception. When newly widowed Allison Rhodes discovers a secret about her deceased husband, she turns to her longtime friend, Jase McGraw, for a place to re-group. <br />While Jase is willing to let Allison stay as long as she needs to, he's more than a bit concerned over the effect she's having on his closely guarded heart and his resolve to not get involved with one woman. <br />Life has a way of turning things around, however, and through a series of events, both Jase and Allison come to terms with their mutal attraction and their inner demons that prevent them from acting on that attraction. <br />Definitely recommended.	2001-03-18
US	52558032	R26MKDHL6248YG	0373194927	278016231	Be My Bride? (Silhouette Romance Ser. , No. 1492)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A lot of story in a little book	I've only just 'discoverd' Ms. Smith's books, with BE MY BRIDE? the first one I've read. I was amazed at the amount of emotion and meaty story the author packed into the slim volume. I especially loved the characterization of Cody and Lauren. Both emerged as people I would really like to know in real life.<br />By the time I finished the book, Ms. Smith became my newest auto-buy author and I picked up most of her backlist at my local UsedBookStor. At the moment, I'm currently reading her latest release, TALL, DARK AND TRUE. Suffice it to say, it has not disappointed yet.<br />If you haven't read any of Ms. Smith's books, I'd advise you to start with BE MY BRIDE? I don't think you'll be disappointed.	2001-03-14
US	52558032	R3N2WK8ZKZKR2V	1575666324	301086141	Sour Grapes (A Savannah Reid Mystery)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Snappy dialogue moves story along smartly	In this, the sixth of the Savannah Reid mystery series, we find Savannah with double trouble: find the person who is killing off beauty pageant contestants and help her younger sister, Atlanta, understand that no pageant is worth starving oneself for. Of the two, solving the murder mystery may turn out to be the easiest. <br />Once again, Savannah is joined by Tammy, Ryan Stone, John Gibson and Dirk Coulter (aka Fart Face) as the investigation turns up an abundance of suspects in the first murder and virtually none in the second. Many people wished Barbie Matthews but which one acted on that wish? As nasty as the murders are, Savannah is faced with an even more worrisome problem: it seems sister Atlanta will stop at nothing to attain what she believes is beauty perfection. <br />With a flair for snappy dialogue and a story that moves along smartly [and intelligently], the author again gives the reader a book to sink one's teeth into and from the blurb on the dustcover, a 7th Savannah Reid mystery is in the works.	2001-03-05
US	52558032	RQB5Q2GNDV27S	0515129968	77487909	Jezebel's Sister	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Emily Carmichael delivers another winner	Take a man on the run from the law, a wagon filled with `ladies of the night,' several more filled with a small-town congregation set on journeying to Oregon, mix it all with the author's highly entertaining storytelling and one has the makings of a fun and entertaining spell of reading.  <br />Nathan Stone, a man wanted for a crime he didn't commit, cheats fate and the noose and goes on the run, appropriating the identity of a preacher who'd had the misfortune of being attacked by Indians. Nathan becomes Rev. Homer Pernell, takes on the responsibility of guiding the god-fearing folk to Oregon, and figures life is good. Until Lila McAllister and her `girls' join the wagon train as part of a deal cut with the sheriff of Webster, Kansas, whose advances Lila had previously rebuffed. He won't press trumped-up charges against Lila if she and her band of brothel beauties clear out for good. In with the group is Cass, Lila's younger sister and an innocent despite her `home life.'<br />On the trail to Oregon, `Rev.Pernell' begins to have some devilish thoughts about the young Ms. McAllister, which she reciprocates after time. But just when things were looking up for the Rev. and Cass, Fate steps in again. Only this time the results aren't nearly as fortunate. What ensues is a series of events that forces the young couple to do some serious soul-searching as they come to grips with circumstances, learning what's really important in life and, for Cass, learning the art of forgiveness. <br />I loved this book. I laughed, a lump formed in my throat a couple of times and I seriously contemplated taking a vacation day so I could finish the book. Like Ms. Carmichael's previous releases (FINDING MR. RIGHT and A GHOST FOR MAGGIE), JEZEBEL'S SISTER is an entertaining, satisfying romance that I highly recommend.	2001-03-05
US	52558032	RM4O4LI3K7EX2	0380816822	422212723	Born to Be Wild	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Take a Walk on the Wilde Side	Lauren Remington and Max Wilde couldn't be more opposite if they tried. She's a Palm Beach socialite (twice married and divorced) with a car and driver. He's a tattooed, goateed, bike riding caterer from the `other' side of town. They existed in worlds so different only an event of cataclysmic proportions could bring them together. The event? The untimely death of Henri, purveyor of haute cuisine. This definitely puts a kink in Lauren's wedding planner business, especially since it's now only a couple of days until her friend's wedding. <br />After a rather discouraging look through the Yellow Pages, Lauren reluctantly calls Born to Be Wild Catering. Let's just say Max isn't wild about catering this wedding anymore than Lauren is wild about hiring him. They do manage to come to an agreement and disaster is averted. For now. As readers will discover, disaster for these two lurks around every corner. Lauren has her hands full fending off her snooty mother and an even snootier acquaintance-who-wants-to-be-so-much-more. Max is foster father to a brother and sister, runs a program where kids can hang out, get help, and stay out of trouble, and is desperately looking for his own sister, separated from him when they were very young. <br />This is one of the best books I've ever read. The characters are multi-faceted, likeable and sympathetic. Max is a hero to die for. His dedication to improving the lives of children had me laughing at times, crying at other times, his vow to give Lauren all the love she's never had melted my heart.  Lauren's determination to make something of herself, to succeed at something useful, to find true love, had me cheering her on every step of the way.  Their rocky road to love is believable, romantic, heartwarming, and shows us that through love all things are possible.<br />This is the first book I've read by Patti Berg. Half-way through I went out and bought up as much of her back list as I could. She's now on my auto-buy list and I can't wait to read Charity Wilde's story coming up in the future.<br />This book is a six-star read.	2001-02-25
US	52558032	R2ET922NRKABKF	1885173806	453086674	Plot Twist: A Cat Austen/Victor Cardenas Mystery (Cat Austen Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rubino lands on my Auto-Buy List	PLOT TWIST is the first Jane Rubino book I'd read but it was enough to convince me to immediately buy her backlist and put her on my auto-buy list for the future. If you like dialogue-driven stories, as I do, you'll like PLOT TWIST. It moves along at a snappy pace and never drags. The plot and characters remained fresh and kept my interest until the very last word. <br />The very best part was that the ending totally surprised me. I had no clue as to the resolution of the mystery. <br />I'm looking forward to catching up on the Cat Austen stories and hope Ms.Rubino has more in store for the readers.	2001-02-24
US	52558032	R3NHGOU86LS1AB	0373168632	603493073	The Pregnant Ms. Potter (Harlequin American Romance, No 863)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Learning the art of compromise	First of all, I do not believe THE PREGNANT MS.POTTER, deserves the one-star rating given below. Within the rules of series romance, the book is right on track. However, if one disregards these differences and reads it after Ms. Criswell's THE TROUBLE WITH MARY, then I can see where they might be disappointed. These are two very different books, written to two very different sets of rules. <br />THE PREGNANT MS.POTTER pits two very independent, strong-willed characters against each other in a story filled with love, over-protectiveness and coming to grips with our pasts and getting on with our lives. This is particularly true with, Pete Taggart, who lost his wife and unborn child in a car accident. Unknown to him at the time, his wife had talked of leaving him because she could no longer handle his 'male chauvanistic' way of running things. Into his life plops Maddie Potter: unmarried, pregnant and very much the independent successful business woman. Pete decrees that a woman's place is firmly in the home, which rubs Maddie totally the wrong way as she does not intend to give up the career she worked so hard to get. Should have been a match made in you-know-where, and it very well could have ended in disaster, if the two of them hadn't kept the lines of communication open, worked through their differences and learned the art of compromise.  <br />My only complaint is that I wished the book had been longer, because I'd have liked more with Maddie, her estranged father and her sister. I felt the length of the book prevented the author from telling us more.  <br />I hope Ms. Criswell intends to followup with books on Pete's two eligible brothers, John and Mark. It would be sinful to let these two get away.	2001-02-22
US	52558032	R2Q68RM3FUC08Q	0373441134	510849570	Annie Get Your Guy/ Messing Around with Max	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Just the thing for those winter blahs	If you're looking for something to lift your spirits and chase away those winter doldrums, you only have to pick up a copy of the March Duets from Harlequin, Annie Get Your Guy &amp; Messing Around With Max, both by Harlequin superstar, Lori Foster.<br />Both stories feature characters from Ms. Foster's Silhouette Desire, LITTLE MISS INNOCENT? (2/99) in leading and secondary roles. In ANNIE GET YOUR GUY, Annie Sawyers no longer desires her friend Guy Donovan in a brotherly fashion but rather in a more sensual way. When Guy announces his engagement to another woman, Annie puts a plan into work to seduce Guy and prove that she's the woman for him. If he'd only cooperate! But up against Annie and her sister-in-law, Lace (a noted sex therapist), Guy doesn't stand a chance.<br />In MESSING AROUND WITH MAX, the last of the Sawyers siblings get bitten by the love bug (older brother Daniel fell hard for Lace in LITTLE MISS INNOCENT?) when Maddie Montgomery runs into Max's bookstore. Literally. How could Maddie have known the glass door was shut! The store's owner, Annie Sawyers, always left it open. How could she have known Annie was away and her brother, Max, was tending the store with his dog, Cleo? Cleo, who likes no woman, takes a tentative shine to Maddie, thereby endearing her to Max. Trouble is, Maddie has no plans for marriage, despite the dog and the dog's cute owner. But when Max and Cleo team up, Maddie might as well kiss her heart goodbye, because this duo isn't about to stop until Maddie says, \\"Yes!\\"<br />Ms. Foster combines her trademark wit and her ability to craft hot and steamy love scenes into two delightful stories guaranteed to get your sap running and put a spring in your step.<br />If you haven't read LITTLE MISS INNOCENT? I recommend you do so, as it provides a good introduction to the Sawyers family and the rest of the characters.	2001-02-18
US	52558032	R1KRS23VAKMD9N	0380809095	60777476	The Wicked One	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Harmon saves the best for last	&quot;You are making a mess of my heart.&quot; So says Lucien, Duke of Blackheath, to the woman who is his equal in more ways than one, Eva de la Mouriére. It could also be a line in a message from me to the author, as Ms. Harmon brings the de Monteforte series to an extraordinary close in THE WICKED ONE. Lucien is certainly wicked, all right, and in one of the most sizzling love scenes I've ever read, I discover not only the sexy side to the duke's wickedness, but find myself privy to events that will shape the lives of all involved forever.<br />Don't look for humor because this tale takes a deeper look into Lucien's psyche and the events that stole his childhood and shaped him into a formidable force to be reckoned with. The author has gotten into his head perfectly, into the whys and wherefores behind what he's done as head of the family, the burden he's had, how he honestly thought he did the right thing. While I found that I did not agree with his methods of seeing to the welfare of this siblings and Eva, after reading his story I now understand the motives. However, good intentions have a way of coming back to haunt us and in Lucien's last machinations, he finds this out the hard way, for underneath his cool facade is man who can't bear to think his little sister or his wife may hate him forever. In one particular scene, his sister, Nerissa, takes out her full fury on him and while I felt she had every reason to say the things she did, reading his inner reaction to her statements brought me to tears. <br />The only thing I felt the story needed was for Luciens' siblings to understand fully the whys of his actions. So they, like the reader, would have a clear understanding of the man behind the dukedom. My hope is that Eva will gather the clan, sit them down and tell them The Real Story behind the THE WICKED ONE. <br />I waited a long time for Lucien's story and Ms. Harmon did not disappoint me. Lucien has always been my favorite de Montforte. Despite his autocratic and dictatorial nature, he still has feelings and in THE WICKED ONE his feelings are exposed, mangled and restored. While I hated to see this series end, end it did. Not with a whimper, but with a bang.	2001-01-27
US	52558032	R3DAVR5B7U0N9I	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Just the Thing for the Winter doldrums	Have post-holiday letdown? Grab yourself a copy of Millie Criswell's THE TROUBLE WITH MARY, and you won't be down for long. <br />I'd only read a chapter or two before I realized *this* was *my* kind of book. It reads fast, has lots of dialogue, humor, and lovable, quirky and sympathetic characters. I'm sure many of us know people like Mary Russo: approaching the 40 mark, not married, a virgin, and still living with their family [in this case, a large extended Italian family].  Armed with courage and a fledgling spirit of independence, Mary decides to move out of the family home and open her own restaurant. This does not amuse her mother, a staunch matriarch who loves nothing better than to cook and plot out her children's lives. <br />Enter Dan Gallagher: Irish, single dad, sports writer and fill-in food/restaurant critic with a vocal aversion to Italian food. His 'review' of Mary's restaurant, &quot;Mama Sophia's,&quot; throws the two together for the first time as Mary decides to pay the tastebud-less critic a visit to set him straight. What it does is set off a chain of events the formidable Sophia and the whole Russo family are powerless to stop. I'm from a very small family and just the thought of getting involved with a family as large, vocal and nosy as Mary's gives me hives. Dan not only perseveres, but he and his son, Matt, thrive in an atmosphere painted with compassion and [by the author's admission] accuracy.  <br />It's so darn gratifying to read a contemporary novel with slightly older hero and heroine in which the couple can have spirited banter without the woman coming off as an airhead and the guy as one step above a fruit fly in IQ.  I simply refuse to read about Neanderthal heroes with testosterone overload, who think it's jolly good fun to rattle off obscenities, treat the heroine like dirt, and indulge in endless tasteless humor. Those of us who prefer a sophisticated brand of humor will appreciate THE TROUBLE WITH MARY, a blue-ribbon winner for Millie Criswell.<br />I'm already anticipating Annie's book in August 2001.	2001-01-09
US	52558032	RQP882UTTH7PF	0312261616	193819579	Film Strip (Sierra Lavotini Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Winner	In FILM STRIP, Nancy Bartholomew continues a winning streak with exotic dancer, Sierra Lavotini's amateur murder investigation. And this latest venture is a real pain. Literally. Poor Sierra. All she wants is for the Tiffany club to rake in the cash in order to stay afloat, thereby ensuring her financial security. Doesn't look like it's going to happen, though, as one by one the invited guest dancers are picked off. Much to Sierra's chagrin, the shooter's aim on one occasion is a bit off and Sierra ends up with a huge pain in the ----- well, you'll have to read the book. Sierra's brother, Francis, arrives to help his sister stay out harm's way and ends up in a position he'd never even dreamed of. <br />The author brings in all the characters we've come to know and love: Raydean and Pat, Marla and Vincent, and of course, hunky police detective John Nailor.  And we finally get a verbal 'glimpse' of the infamous Big Moose Lavotini.<br />The dialogue is fast and witty, the characters quirky and interesting, and the love scenes are--whoa!--hot!! What more could one ask for? I'm eagerly awaiting the next in the series, STRIP POKER.	2001-01-07
US	52558032	R1F0Q0VJFT77AN	0373271182	620676410	Mad Dog And Annie	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Virginia Kantra Does It Again --	Over a decade has passed since Ann Barclay Cross and Maddox Palmer had shared the same town of Cutler, North Carolina. Now, dark circumstances have brought Maddox back to Cutler and Ann, dealing with her own dark problems is wary of letting Maddox close again, physically and emotionally. In the process of extricating herself from a highly abusive husband, attempting to clear her name from a felony conviction, and being a good mother to her son, Ann has enough on her hands without letting Maddox into her life again.<br />Maddox, on medical leave from the Atlanta police force (following a devastating and tragic altercation), has no intention of letting Ann crawl into herself and hide. He sees firsthand the physical and emotional ravage inflicted on Ann by her slime-ball ex-husband, Rob, and by the snide and hurtful attitude the citizens of Cutler (including his own father, the police chief) have toward Ann and vows to right it all.<br />Virginia Kantra has done it again--written a story of two everyday people fighting to overcome the odds Fate has tossed them while hesitating to acknowledge the history they have between them or the future they might have together. The reader will be moved to revulsion by how Rob Cross attacks his ex-wife and their son. In the end, I'm glad Rob was treated to some pain. Although not nearly enough to make up for what he'd done to Annie, the fact that she 'got' him with a toy was somehow quite fitting.<br />Highly recommended.	2000-12-31
US	52558032	RHE93HM3FL3KH	1893896196	715782186	Magic for Joy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Magical Book of Love and Warmth	Ms. Fuhrmann pens a warm and delightful follow-up to &quot;Mad About Max,&quot; which left me looking forward to the last in the Aaronson trilogy, &quot;Miracles for Nick.&quot;<br />Joy, the middle child (sandwiched in between her two brothers) has always had a hard time finding her niche in life. Max is a noted psychiatrist and Nick, a lawyer. Both in professions of helping people. Joy was never sure where her talents could best be used. Of course, being a klutz (her words) didn't do much to further her self-esteem. But eventually she discovered that she like raising money for charitable causes and was good at it. She'd founded Ripples, a non-profit foundation that funded small charities. And it's at a fundraiser for Ripples where we are introduced to Trudi St.John and her daughter Sophie. Our 3 fairy godmothers also pop up in the beginning of the book, bent on serious matchmaking while their success with brother Max is still fresh in their minds. <br />Trudi, planning on re-marrying (and not wanting to take Sophie with her), talks Joy into not only taking Sophie to live with her father, Gabriel, but into delivering the papers giving Gabriel sole custody. Needless to say, my opinion of Trudi took a steep nosedive at this point. Sophie becomes so attached to Joy that Joy agrees to stay on for a while to help Sophie adjust. Of course, the fact that Gabriel St.John is no slouch in the likeability department makes Joy's decision that much easier.<br />The story travels along a path of deepening attachments, blossoming love, meddlesome interruptions from the fairy godmothers and interruptions by Gabriel's assistant (and more?), Helen, toward a satisfying conclusion for all involved, including the reader. <br />The last book in the Aaronson family trilogy is due out in 2001. In the meantime, you can read more by the author -- writing as Holly Jacobs -- in Harlequin Duets #43, &quot;I Waxed My Legs for This?&quot; coming in January 2001.	2000-12-30
US	52558032	R1NOEFIMIEZ7M7	0373709528	848490612	'Tis the Season: The Daddy School (Harlequin Superromance No. 952)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	'Tis the Season Warms the Heart	Filomena Albright has lost both of her parents, her mother only several months before Christmas. Saddled with huge debts her mother incurred, Fil has come back to her childhood home to put it in order to sell. She lives in New York City, where she is working on her Ph.D. <br />Evan Myers' wife abandoned him and their children. He does his best to be an excellent father while at the same time overseeing his chain of sporting goods stores. He has his hands full with the two lively kids and can't seem to pull it all together. <br />Evan meets Fil through his children's highjinks - they're caught on the Fil's porch, absolutely sure the house is haunted. Nearly at his wits end (the kids snuck out an upstairs window late in the evening), Evan asks Fil if she would be interested in picking up the children after school and staying with them until he got home. Just until the holiday season was over. <br />Fil needs the money, so she agrees. Things proceed along a predictable course. She grows more attached to the children and Evan and they to her, knowing that after New Year, she would be gone. The romance progresses from chaste kiss to something a lot steamier. After New Year's, Fil does return to NYC. Even though Evan &amp; Fil love each other, neither has voiced the words. <br />'Tis the Season is a warm holiday story, complete with blossoming love, two motherless children (three, if you count Filomena) and some secondary characters from the whole personality spectrum. <br />My only problem was the fact that Evan did not check Fil's background before handing over his kids. In this day and age, that's an oversight that I just can't imagine.  Still and all, a good story for the holiday season.	2000-12-28
US	52558032	R629QNCIC11TU	0373194811	752121202	Raffling Ryan (The Chandlers Request...) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Likeable Main Characters	What impressed me the most was the likeability of Ryan and Janna<br />Ryan Chandler's grandmother and meddlesome matchmaker, Allie, decides it's high time her grandson get out and live life a little. After marrying off her two granddaughters, Allie's next victim is Ryan. And what better way to shove him out into the world than at the Bachelor Auction hospital charity event. And in order to ensure success, Allie picks out Janna Monroe (widow and mother) from the bidders and `helps' her along in the form of a check to make the winning bid. <br />As the story progresses, we watch Janna learn to love again and Ryan change from a boring corporate businessman into a warm and loving man, whose heart opens up not only to Janna, but to her young son, Zachary. Ryan's first attempt at grilling is hilarious, even if the outcome was not.  <br />I found Ryan and Janna very appealing. I did not find Almira Chandler likeable at all. From her scheming to the way she spoke to others, I found myself wanting to reach out and strangle her. I wasn't particularly fond of Mrs. Ballantine (the housekeeper) either. <br />Ignore the interfering grandmother and crabby household help. Focus on the story of Ryan and Janna and you won't be disappointed.	2000-11-23
US	52558032	R2A7VT7IS69OS2	0515129259	548963094	All I Want for Christmas	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Heartwarming story for the holiday season	This romance is a bit of a cross between a modern day It's a Wonderful Life, A Christmas Carol and How The Grinch Stole Christmas. Susan Carpenter, widow and mother, teaches a modern-day Grinch Scrooge, Luke Potter, the true meaning of love and the spirit of Christmas. <br />Sweet romance, a couple of kisses. Good to put in someone's stocking this year.	2000-11-22
US	52558032	R28SHXKCP8O8U6	0553582534	368339480	Temporary Mistress (St. John-Duras)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Getting Better	But still hasn't reached the level of erotic romance that she achieved in her Braddock-Black series. I was beginning to despair of ever reading another of the author's novels that didn't resort to an overabundance of obscenity and purposeless sex, without a viable and entertaining plot to hold it all together. In Temporary Mistress, we have less obscenity, but the love scenes are like tepid bath water and the plot, while not completely without interest, is kind of blah. <br />We have Isabella Leslie, newly made heierss, attempting to elude her hideous relatives who have visions of golden eggs with Isabella being the goose. All they have to do is force her into marrying her cousin, something Isabella rebels against. She races headlong into the night, knocking on the first `friendly' door. <br />Molly Crocker, the good-hearted madam behind the door, takes Isabella in, listens to her tale of woe and offers a suggestion. I found Isabella's ready acceptance a bit hard to believe and the suggestion involves spending a week in the company of Dermott Ramsay, Earl of Bathurst, known womanizer and rake, in order to so sully her reputation that her relatives would no longer want her.<br />What follows was, to me, at times a bit hard to believe and at other times predictable. Isabelle take to Molly's tutoring of the sexual arts like a duck to water and Dermott take full advantage, adding his own unique spin in a series of love scenes so toned down they were almost sweet. <br />It will be interesting to see how all this translates into the author's next release; if she can once again weave an erotic romance in the vein of Blaze, Silver Flame and Forbidden.	2000-11-15
US	52558032	RI75CJOV30740	0312976801	964392040	All I Want For Christmas	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Christmas Bonus - Lori Foster	Forget hot chocolate, forget that crackling fire. All you need is Lori Foster's &quot;Christmas Bonus&quot; to warm you up on a cold winter's night. Whew! This is one hot story. Too bad it was so short. Of course, this is a novella, but I'd have loved to have had another 200 pages of Eric Bragg and Maggie Carmichael.<br />Unbeknownst to each other, they've both worshipped the other from afar, their age difference being one of the main factors. Now that Maggie is head of her late father's company, Eric continues to keep his distance, unsure of how Maggie would respond to overtures. Would she think him only interested in her now, since her rise to company chief, as a way of gaining control of the business he once thought would be his to control? As for Maggie, did Eric still see her as the bouncy teen-ager, ten years younger than him? <br />Their secret infatuations with each other remain secret, until Eric discovers Maggie's `other' career. Then, the sparks fly as Eric decides to take matters into his own hands.<br />If those long, cold winter days (and nights) have you feeling a bit like hibernating, &quot;Christmas Bonus&quot; is guaranteed to jumpstart your pulse and heat your blood to sizzle.	2000-11-10
US	52558032	R3HAX1AKOZFR5S	0373259050	196428300	Seeking Single Male	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Man of one's Dreams	He's the perfect man. He's amiable, always willing to cuddle you in his arms, he won't talk back and he won't leave before breakfast if you don't want him to! Too bad he's a blow-up doll and Lana Martina is stuck with him. An ever-present reminder of her single status, Harry graces Lana's apartment and represents the sum total of her romantic life. Until a mix-up in advertisements sends her Greg Healey-lawyer, entrepreneur and older brother to Will, who decides that singles ad from &quot;Coffee Girl&quot; sounds like the perfect girl for him. Greg, on the other hand, decides that letting Will have free rein could end up disastrous and instead insists he should be the one to check out Coffee Girl. If she checks out, then he'll introduce the two. Little does Greg know that Coffee Girl isn't who he thinks she is and worse! - she's a shop owner set dead center in a part of town that he's bent on razing and paving over. The sparks fly immediately between the two and it looks as if Will might never meet the woman of his dreams. <br />Although I was aware immediately that Greg looked out for Will's welfare, I never was quite sure what had happened to Will in the past that resulted in his present mental/neurological condition. It was written that he'd taken a nasty fall as a child, but I didn't get the feeling that that had been the cause or vice versa. Also, I didn't feel that Lana's self-centered bimbo brained mother was dealt with severely enough. Personally, I itched to reach out and slap her for her obliviously callous and selfish way of treating her daughter.  <br />After Too Hot To Sleep, readers might be surprised at the toned-down love scenes in Seeking Single Male, and how long it takes to get to one. That's not to say the book isn't good. It is. Two levels of sensuality, same great level of writing.	2000-11-08
US	52558032	R1QMZ8NW47MEUO	0373709110	909929105	A Man Like Mac	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best books of the year	You know the book is a keeper when, long after you close the cover, it stays with you. In &quot;A Man Like Mac,&quot; Fay Robinson not only pens a keeper, but one that easily deserves the title, &quot;Best First Book.&quot;<br />Olympic runner, Keely Wilson, finds her dreams crushed after injuries suffered in a car accident leave her body and spirit crippled. Determined to achieve her goal of winning Olympic gold in Sydney, Keely returns to the man who was so instrumental in building her young running career, Mac McCandless, in the hopes that he can, once again, work magic. Unbeknownst to her, however, Mac has been dealt his own rotten hand of Life's cards. Keely must find it within herself to not only accept and deal with Mac's condition, but her growing attraction to him. She must also deal with memories of the past--her parents' divorce, her father's death, and her mother's plans to marry again. <br />As Mac works with Keely, he's not only afraid she will never run again, but that she will rebuff the personal feelings he has for her. <br />In the hands of a lesser writer, Keely could have come off as a whiny,spoiled brat with whom the reader would feel no compassion, no sympathy; the portrayal of paraplegics and quadraplegics could have come off as maudlin. But Ms. Robinson outfits her complex characters with acceptable and believable conflict and gives them intelligent, compelling dialogue. Some scenes leave you laughing and some will make you cry. But in the end, the reader is filled with a sense of awe and the knowledge that love *can* conquer all. <br />This is Ms. Robinson's first book. Thankfully, it's not her last(her next is scheduled for Jan. 2001) This is an author to watch, and if her first book is any indication, her career is destined to be a golden one. I can't recommend this book highly enough. It's one of the best love stories of the year.	2000-11-06
US	52558032	R1A6FWCVOB3KRT	0312975791	840126807	DRAG STRIP	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sierra dances her way into your heart.	In this, the 2nd of the Sierra Lavotini mystery series, we find our intrepid exotic dancer/amateur sleuth with another dead body on her hands and herself just a tad bit closer to snagging Det.John Nailor. <br />Sierra still can outdance the best of them and still has a penchant for getting herself involved in murder investigations. This time, her protégée Ruby Diamond meets a heinous death at the local drag strip. Fingers point to several of the drag strip regulars, Sierra's boss insists she call in her pseudo-uncle Moose, Ma &amp; brother Al show up to lend a hand and Raydean continues in her ongoing paranoia against Flemish aliens. And what, Sierra wants to know, was Det. Nailor doing standing over the body of Ruby?<br />As things start to get heavy, Sierra knows she's in big trouble, but risks her life and her heart to help solve Ruby's murder and get John out of the mess he's gotten himself into. <br />The one recurring character I despise, is Carla - Nailor's ex. One of these times I'd really like to see this nasty human get what's coming to her and I'd sure like it to be Sierra who dishes it out.<br />The author's next book in this series, Film Strip, is in my short stack on-deck circle of books to read. I only hope Ms.Bartholomew doesn't end the series before Sierra and John reach nirvana.	2000-11-04
US	52558032	RGPVDJZIUAGFF	1893896056	406521424	Mad About Max	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fun &amp; Entertaining	Dream come true or worst nightmare? Grace Macguire can't figure out what in the world is going on, when three of the characters she'd created for recurring roles in her romance novels suddenly seem to come to life and decided that *she* is their next 'Cinderella Story.'<br />On the pretense of doing research, Grace enlists the help of psychiatrist Dr. Max Aaronson, (and the fairy godmothers' choice for Grace's life-mate.) in an effort to really help her over her sudden bout of weird visions. <br />Throw in some vile step-relatives and a really heinous individual who sees dollar signs in Grace's eyes and who, in my opinion, got off way too lightly and you have the makings for a enjoyable night of reading. I'd have liked the book to have been a bit longer, so that the characters could have been fleshed out more and the storyline beefed up, but all in all, a delightful story.	2000-10-28
US	52558032	RGET778IXLAZH	0312975651	251671300	Our Husband	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Enjoyable and Entertaining	In the style of Jane Heller (Sis Boom Bah) and perhaps a bit of Olivia Goldsmith (First Wives Club), Ms. Bond has penned a great first single title story that has humor and angst, love and hate. All told in a way that will draw the reader into the  lives of the 3 women(ages 50+, mid/late 30s, 20+)  who were married simultaneously to the same man, and who find themselves all convicted of the crime of murdering him. Who did it? You'll have to read it to find out. <br />A interesting cast of secondary characters, intriguing story line, and three memorable ladies combine to make a novel you won't want to miss. From initial distrust and intense animosity, the three women must work together up until the very end to find out who did Raymond in. The author has created heroines for whom I felt compassion and sympathy and a bit of empathy, as I know women who *have* been taken in by con men like Raymond. <br />As the holiday season approaches, pick up a copy of Our Husband, curl up by the fire with a cup of your favorite beverage and treat yourself to an incredible story with a satisfying resolution. <br />I envy Ms. Bond's ability to put words on paper. I only wish I were one-tenth as good. Brava! And what are you doing for an encore?	2000-10-23
US	52558032	R2X5UTADYOM3D5	0553471902	653831390	Adam's Fall (Mason Sisters)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the Best Audios Ever	I'll admit I had my doubts about a romance audiobook read by a man. My doubts didn't linger for long. I much prefer Ms. Brown's earlier books and the story of &quot;Adam's Fall&quot; lived up to all my expectations. However, the narration of &quot;Adam's Fall&quot; was one so superior I doubt any other will top it, in my estimation.<br />You can read the synopsis of the book elsewhere on this page, I only want to add that Michael Zaslow did an outstanding job of reading. His voice brought the characters to life, infusing each--men and women alike--with uniqueness and, in the case of Lilah, sufficient quirkiness to make her come alive. <br />The world lost a great thespian when Mr. Zaslow passed away in 1998. I highly recommend this tape if for nothing else than the sheer joy of listening to him read a highly entertaining love story.	2000-10-21
US	52558032	R113GQMUYII16L	0425176959	954405642	A Thing of Beauty	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Light Regency Romp	Regency England is not my preferred story setting, but I'll be honest - The cover hooked me.  It has to be one of the most unique and beautiful covers I've ever seen. I read the back blurb, decided I might enjoy the story, too, and bought it.<br />Ms. Claybourne writes a light Regency romp that features Belinda Croft (dabbler in potions and such), Marcus Barrow (an earl without a title), Belinda's loving and agoraphobic father, her prone-to-vapors Aunt Phoebe and her air-headed and flighty cousin, Sissy.<br />When Sissy is horrified to discover a pimple on her face the day of her big debut into society, Belinda quickly 'devises' a beauty cream, which Sissy uses and insists has given her a perfect complexion.  Of course, news of this wonderous invention quickly makes the rounds and reaches the ears of the Prince Regent. He, in turn, uses it as a bargaining chip in Marcus' attempt to regain his title.  Marcus, guru of good-taste, makes the bargain with Prinny that will bring back family title if successful. Belinda holds the key, but can Marcus go through with it?   I was most annoyed with the silliness of Aunt Phoebe and Sissy throughout most of the book, however Sissy develops some spine near the end and raised my opinion of her and, to be fair, they were portrayed no worse than other females of the same period.  <br />A Thing of Beauty was just that: A beautifully covered book with a warm and satisfying love story inside.	2000-10-19
US	52558032	R1E30W605TWW66	0373650647	448682985	Married To The Boss (Maitland Maternity, Book 3)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	R.J. Maitland meets his match.	No doubt about it. R.J. Maitland didn't know what he was in for when he asked his executive assistant to be his wife in a marriage of convenience. His dedicated 'right-hand' had been in love with R.J. for years and would have done most anything, including agreeing to his wild plan to salvage what was left of his reputation. She had only one stipulation: she'd do it, but only if it were a marriage in the full context of the meaning.<br />R.J. has a devil of a time making Dana see things his way. The fact that she doesn't readily agree with on a number of issues boggles his mind. As they work to overcome the damage done to R.J.'s reputation by the local media, and stem the clinic's loss of patients, R.J. comes to realize that Dana means more to him than he ever thought possible. This, however, does nothing to lessen his arrogance. It takes Dana's own show of assertiveness to 'knock him down' a peg or two and force him to realize that she's the best thing that's ever happened to him and if he isn't careful, he could lose everything.<br />&quot;Married to the Boss&quot; is not a book in Ms. Foster's &quot;Buckhorn Brothers&quot; tradition. Elements in that series, which Ms. Foster developed from start to finish, are missing in &quot;Married To The Boss&quot; (a series whose elements were decided for the writer, to some extent), and there isn't as much humor in this story as in previous books by this author, but that's the nature of the story itself. Was I disappointed? No. My only expectation was Ms. Foster's quality writing. Did I get it? Yes. I think the author did a great job developing Dana and R.J. and putting them through a metamorphosis to a satisfying conclusion.	2000-10-14
US	52558032	RZT90L775KAOD	1583141073	992674372	Never Too Late For Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Real People, Real Problems, Read Good Reading.	Monica Jackson's story will appeal to readers no matter what your race. I like a book populated by characters that come alive and with whom I could see having a friendship. Tiffany Eastman and Jason Cates are two such people. Each started the story with a large amount of emotional baggage. Tiffany is a recovering alcoholic who had been horribly abused by her late husband and Jason is a surgeon and long-time widower. He'd had to raise his children himself and still, after many years, misses his wife terribly. By the time the story ends, they still have baggage, but the amount is less and the reader is left with the feeling that between the two of them, they will eventually get everything straightened out. They never gave up on each other, even when the going got really rough. <br />In addition to sympathetic leading characters, Ms. Jackson gives us a varied and interesting cast of supporting characters and a setting that shifts from Atlanta to St. Louis. <br />I'm looking forward to this author's next book.	2000-10-07
US	52558032	RED4B15JHJ2U0	0373258976	24418836	Breaking The Rules (Temptation, 797)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Disappointing	Are romance publishers pushing a new theme these days? The theme of the adult male who blames his inability to commit to a defective gene. Do these editors and publishers have inside information to the map of the human genome? Let's get this straight: infideltiy is caused by defective jeans, NOT defective genes. To insinuate otherwise is to assume the reader does not know the difference.    <br />Cooper Wilde believes he has defective DNA. Maybe he does, but it certainly is not the cause of his commitment worries. Yes, his mother and uncle seem to have a problem with sticking to one significant other and based on this, Cooper decides his is also so-fated. Enter Carly Cassidy.    <br />Tired of being good, within the space of a couple of days, Carly's left her bridegroom at the alter, wandered into a strange bar, drunk herself senseless and `falls in love' with the bar owner, Cooper Wilde, all in the name of making it on her own. I would have to question her common sense, given the danger she puts herself into. I found Cooper, with his \\"we'll have sex, but I can't commit\\" attitude and Carly with her frequently uttered, \\"Sweet Mary\\" to be irritating people. I thought that her attempt to mentally recite the Beatitudes with Cooper biting her ear was inappropriate, even though she's the daughter of a minister. When they finally do have sex, it's unprotected! At this point, I finished the book, but quit caring what, if anything, happened to them.	2000-10-04
US	52558032	R1WRH93MU4RNFI	0373271026	422256090	The Temptation of Sean MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1032)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Romance Lover's Meat-and-Potatoes Book	This book was fantastic, one I could sink my romance loving teeth into. To put it simply: A good old-fashioned love story. The story had characters I could sympathize with -- and in the heroine, Rachel, I fully identified with her reluctance to confide her problems to anyone, even her mother. Both Rachel and Sean exuded likeability and the author hooked me into their story from the first page. Rachel had good reason to be afraid for her and her children's safety and good reason not get anyone else involved. But through Sean's persuasive kindness and consideration, he earns the trust and love of Rachel and her children. Throw in sweet seduction, sizzling love scenes and moments of panic, mayhem and angst and you'll see why Ms. Kantra has become an auto-buy for future titles, and her back list now is part of my books to be read.<br />Two scenes that stood out for me were Sean and Rachel, confronting each other in the kitchen and  coming to terms with their feelings for the other and later, when Rachel gets her first introduction to the entire MacNeill family. <br />The Temptation of Sean MacNeill is definitely Two Thumbs Up.	2000-10-01
US	52558032	R3UGTZU0ST30YU	0373258992	531654789	Tempted (Blaze) (Temptation, 799)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Hard to believe premise	In order for this book to work, one needs to buy into the theory that infidelity is inherited.  Inherited, not learned. And because Marc Jamison voices this impossible belief over and over again in the course of the book is the overriding reason this book didn't work for me.  Yes, his father had strayed once (but together Marc's parents worked together to mend the rift, going on to stay together 35 years) and yes, his brother Eric had strayed more than once during his marriage to Brooke, and yes, Marc had a one-night stand eight years previously (!) while he was dating another woman. These are character flaws, not genetic abnormalities. Learned behavior can be un-learned. <br />Brooke, now divorced from Eric, and Marc find themselves stranded during a blizzard in a fully-stocked cabin belonging to strangers. Faced now with their admissions that each hotly desires the other, they decide to have a wild fling for however many days it takes for the blizzard to subside. Not strings. No ties. Each gets to play out their deepest fantasy with the other (except since neither had condoms, *that* particular part of the fantasy was ruled out)  on the condition that once they leave the cabin, they go their separate ways. At this point, I still didn't feel like reaching out and smacking Marc, but this was about to change. <br />Marc gets Brooke to bare more than just her body as she confides in him things she's never told anyone else. Marc, on the other hand, is content to  clam up and let things play out one-sided, even going to far as to deny himself the pleasure of having Brooke perform the ultimate pleasure on him. He convinces himself it has to be this way, because well--he's missing the `commitment gene.'  Brooke, on the other hand, has no idea what's going on inside his head.  <br />Things get hot and heavy, and during a foray into the cabin owner's medicine cabinet, Brooke stumbles across a condom. One. Which she put aside for just right  moment and it was after this moment, when Marc's internal musings lead him to tell himself that these sweet memories would haunt him the rest of his long and loney life is when I wanted to reach out , smack him and tell him to smarten up. In the end, he does smarten up, but by then I'd had enough of his &quot;Woe is me&quot; attitude and no longer cared.	2000-09-27
US	52558032	R329EKPX7LJA27	0684834553	627385852	Vineyard Blues : A Martha's Vineyard Mystery	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Long on scenery and familial insights, short on substance	Vineyard Blues is the second of the Martha's Vineyard mysteries that I have read [Death on a Vineyard Beach  being the first] and like the first, Blues is long on scenery, fishing and familial insights. Sort of short on mystery, though. I'm not sure I like the idea of J.W. letting his two children tag along on investigations and business calls, especially his son at the sight of an arson fire. Too many chances for a young one to get hurt. <br />Having visited Martha's Vineyard I enjoyed re-visiting some of the island spots, but I thought the mystery plot itself could have been more meaty, and I was disaapointed that the two Kline brothers [1 a slumlord, 1 into kinky behavior - both into abusing women] were not dealt with a bit more severely for their roles in the lives of some of the island's female population. And I never did figure out just what purpose the sub-plot of the Quick's played in the book, except to fill some pages. <br />Vineyard Blues is a cozy beach read or for Vineyard dreaming in the middle of winter.	2000-09-25
US	52558032	R2LNELJVMN304L	0373763166	981269979	Rock Solid (Body & Soul) (Desire, 1316)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Rock-solid reading pleasure	I didn't quite know what to expect from &quot;Rock Solid&quot; as the series line and the author are ones I'd not read before. I'd heard good buzz, so decided to try it. I'm glad I did. Ms. Greene packs a whole lot of punch into 185 all-too-short pages. <br />Take one stressed-out panic attack-ridden young lady who felt more comfortable with Dow Jones and NASDAQ than a Hobie Cat, plunk her down in Idaho for a month of R &amp; R with the man women dreamed of [but doubted existed] and you've got the recipe for one powerful sexy story. Cash McKay senses there's more to Lexie Woolf's ever-present anxiety than meets the eye, but doesn't know how right he is until he takes her under his wing for some confidence building exercises. When it becomes clear her childhood had left serious emotional scars, Cash loses his reserve and his heart, for he knows the situation all-too-well. His small nephew, Sammy, now under Cash's care, suffers the same way. Trouble is, Cash feels Lexie isn't cut out for the wide-open-spaces life and the ranch is *his* life &amp; Sammy's future. How Lexie and Sammy face their demons and how Cash and Lex come to an agreeable understanding and resolution is enjoyable to read and left me perfectly satisfied. <br />I liked the interaction between Lexie, Cash and Sammy as well as the dialogue between Cash and Lexie. Some great one-liners and humorous undertones keep the story from becoming too dark. This truly was a good book and I will definitely be on the lookout for more of Ms. Greene's work.	2000-09-23
US	52558032	R3U56KP6NEBJI8	0684864843	526930828	The Vineyard: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Grapes Get the Starring Role	After reading, and enjoying, several of Ms. Delinsky's novels - and having met her this summer - I was looking forward to reading her latest, The Vineyard.  When I closed the book, I was left with a mixed bag of emotions and thoughts.  While I really enjoyed the budding love story of Olivia and Simon, I found myself wishing there had been more devoted to them , especially how Olivia and her daughter, Tess, helped Simon in his grief recovery over losing his wife and daughter several years before. <br />The italicized portions of the book, which constituted Olivia's writing of Natalie Seebring's memoirs, broke my concentration and drew me out of the story, although  I don't know how the author could have crafted this differently and still gotten across Olivia's creative writing ability. <br />Ms. Delinsky expertly weaves several story lines of a dysfunctional family into a verbal tapestry rich in characterization and human foibles. Of all the characters, I loved Simon best, but what I really loved was the in-depth description of life caring for and nurturing a vineyard. I grew up less than a mile from many vineyards, but never did I know what went on inside the little ecosystems. If nothing else, The Vineyard gave me a new appreciation for those whose livelihoods depend on grapes and what they must do to make the harvest a success.	2000-09-20
US	52558032	R38WQHDGW6XRGG	0821766244	636558119	The Right Choice (Zebra Bouquet Romances, No. 50)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Right Choice in Reading	Karen Drogin does is again, serving up a tempting summertime reading dish with &quot;The Right Choice.&quot;  Intense at times and at other times  evoking a chuckle or two, this story, about two people who'd been orphaned  as children (literally and figuratively), will tug your emotions and keep  you turning the pages.<br />Carly Wexler finds out in the nick of time that  her fiancé, Pete Novack, is not the perfect match she'd convinced herself  he is. Adding to her confusion over his infidelity and her conception of  what she'd always thought she wanted is the fact that Pete's brother, Mike  (arrived for his part as best man) stirs feelings in her that she never  once felt for Pete. Pete &amp; Mike were orphaned as children and a family  scandal early in her life left Carly with feelings of abandonment and  animosity towards her parents. When Mike and Carly are together the sparks  fly, yet neither is at the point in their lives where they can make  commitments to the other.<br />Readers will enjoy watching Mike and Carly come  to terms with their pasts and work out their differences--with Mike it's  going back into dangerous territory to finish an assignment he'd left  half-done after tragedy struck, with Carly it's facing her parents, getting  the true story behind the scandal--so they can move forward together. <br />My  only regret in reading &quot;The Right Choice&quot; is knowing that  Kensington has decided to terminate the Zebra Bouquet line. Ms. Drogin has  one more title coming out later this year, &quot;The Solitary Man,&quot;  which I am eagerly looking forward to.  I can only hope another publisher  will snap up this author's work and get it out to the readers. We deserve  the best and Ms.Drogin knows how to provide it.	2000-09-14
US	52558032	R2MV1RCQ2CZV7V	051512835X	932419603	Daughter of Ireland (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Two Thumbs Up for this Keeper	Once in a while, one picks up a book and when all is said and done, they  know they've read one of the year's best. For me, &quot;Daughter of  Ireland&quot;, is that book.  I've been an avid fan of cozy mystery writer,  G.A. McKevett, so when I discovered she'd written a contemproary romance  under the name Sonja Massie, I was thrilled to have yet another one of her  stories to enjoy. <br />Set in New York City and Gormloch, Ireland,  &quot;Daughter of Ireland&quot; is an exquisitely crafted tale of two  strong-willed people, each entrenched in their own beliefs and neither  willing to give an inch. At least, not at first. Moya Mahoney and Rory  O'Brien find themselves at odds over the pub and land left to Rory by his  uncle, which happens to be the only real home Moya had ever known. Rory  sees this as an opportunity to not only expand his corporate empire, but to  bring jobs and security to the townspeople. Moya sees it as a total  destruction of everything she has ever known, loved and holds dear.  <br />Sonja Massie has created a totally believable story with two lead  characters who had me laughing at times, while at other times pulled hard  on my heart, for both Rory and Moya had had less than happy starts in life.  How they manage to compromise over their feelings of distrust and turn them  into feeling of true love and passion that will last a lifetime is a story  that must be experienced. <br />Ms. Massie's portrayal of rural Ireland and  its people was neither overdone nor glossed over. Her vivid  characterization had me expecting Rory and Moya to step from the pages at  anytime. I only wish Ms. Massie had more romantic stories on backlist. For  now, &quot;Daughter of Ireland&quot; is headed for my keeper shelf and I  can't recommend it highly enough. <br />For those who would like to read more  by this author, I recommend you look up the Savannah Reid mysteries,  written under the name G.A. McKevett.	2000-09-13
US	52558032	R1CWCW2NTRYQ0	037325900X	91823454	Hotbed Honey (Temptation, 800)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ignore the title, this is a great little book	I have to wonder what goes through editor's heads when they slap a title  like Hotbed Honey onto a book, at least a book that has nothing to do with  beekeeping and garden horticulture, but I'd heard enough good buzz about  the book to know I should not judge it by the title.<br />Max Tate and  Kimberly Brandt are quite a pair,  a pair with a history that didn't have a  happy ending. The two had worked together previously as private  investigators and had developed a red-hot relationship &quot;off the  job.&quot; Things seemed to be going well until for some inexplicable  reason, Kim blew their cover on a job, resulting in both of them losing  their jobs. Rather than allowing her to give her side of the story, Max  severed all ties and neither had seen the other for three years, until fate  threw them together once more - again working together as P.I.s<br />Max finds  Kim to have changed, toughened up, but still won't cut her any slack as far  as the previous disaster. A couple of times, I wanted to reach out and  smack him for the hurt he was causing her by his snide remarks and his  callous, cold manner. From the beginning, the author depicted Kim as one  smart lady, one who would not simply 'walk off a job' without an excellent  reason. I found a lump in my throat at several points in the story when I  could 'feel' her hurt that Max didn't care enough to ask her for her side  of what happened. They put their past and present feelings aside and manage  to work together in harmony as a married couple to catch the suspected  jewel thief, until Max realizes that old love doesn't die, but simmers on  the back burner. I'll admit I was glad to see him suffer suitably. ::: grin  ::: <br />What transpires is a clever, hot &amp; harrowing resolution to all  their problems, including Kim's side of the botched job, that will leave  you breathlessly satisfied. I liked the book so much I've hunted up Ms.  Blake's back list and look forward to her future releases. This authoris  definitely one to watch.	2000-09-08
US	52558032	R2QYBHAYR2H34H	0140262032	738779639	Revenge of the Cootie Girls: A Robin Hudson Mystery	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Okay, but not as good as earlier ones	Books like this are hard to rate. While it wasn't bad, it wasn't as good  as Ms. Hayter's first Robin Hudson mystery,  &quot;What's a Girl Gotta  Do?&quot;  Yes, there were moments of humor, some really good, but all too  often I found myself wondering just what in the world was going on. The  first part of the story moved right along and was on par with Janet  Evanovich's &quot;Stephanie Plum&quot; series.  But then I found myself  distracted by lengthy narrations into the history of the Cootie Girls and I  lost the train of the plot. <br />Although the story line was one of revenge,  I wasn't quite sure against whom. Was Robin the target, or just a pawn in a  bigger plot? And, why? By the time I reached the end, my head was spinning  and I was worn out from the convolutions the story took to try and figure  it all out. I didn't feel the secondary characters added enough substance  to the story, none of them evoked much sympathy from me, and seemed to be  included just so Robin would have someone to talk to. <br />While  &quot;Revenge of the Cootie Girls&quot; didn't entertain me as did  &quot;What's a Girl Gotta Do?&quot; it wasn't a bad book and did provide a  couple night's worth of nice reading. I just hope that Ms.Hayter's other  Robin Hudson stories will provide me with greater reading delights.	2000-09-05
US	52558032	R2E2B2FRCA1XKJ	0373258798	439523659	Simply Scandalous (The Simply Series, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Taming the Cat	I'm jealous! This guy has a house at the beach! <br />Logan Montgomery- public defender and son of a prominent judge, could be the poster boy for  Sinatra's &quot;I Did It My Way.&quot;  Shunning the family mansion for an  uncluttered beach cabin, a lucrative position with a prestigious Boston law  firm for a public defender's job, the glamour of the bright lights  political public office for the simple life.<br />Catherine Logan - 1/2 owner  of Pot Luck (w/sister Kayla from &quot;Simply Sinful&quot;). Remember Cat?  She's the one who turned into a virtual hellcat, with the fangs and claws,  if anyone so much as looked cross-eyed at her sister. Given what I'd read  of Cat previously, her tamed portrayal in &quot;Simply Scandalous&quot;  came as a big surprise. But then, one could attribute it to the power of  love.  <br />Catherine is nothing like the glamour woman people would expect  on the arm of Logan Montgomery and perhaps that is her appeal to him. Cat  knows she doesn't walk the same social plane as Logan and his family and  holds no illusions that, despite Logan's assurances to the contrary, she  and him would ever have a future together. He sets out to convince her  otherwise, and Cat finds herself falling in love with him. A confrontation  with the press at the worst possible time, in the worst possible place,  threatens to undermine all that Logan has accomplished in his quest to win  Cat's heart, not the least of which is finally standing up to his  overbearing, self-centered father. Unfortunately, we are not given a chance  to learn much about Logan's mother, only that in the end she helped smooth  things over. <br />The one thing that didn't ring true for me was that Logan's  granny prided herself on how well she'd taught her grandson, taking on the  role of parent when his mother and father couldn't be bothered. But it  bothered me that she thought nothing of conniving to use an innocent woman  in a plot of scandal to discredit Logan in the eyes of his father and  others who wanted him to run for public office. All of her  'cuteness'  aside, I found myself disliking Granny less and less as the story went on.  I would much have preferred her to take a less unpalatable path for her  grandson's 'scandal.' <br />Overall, though, &quot;Simply Scandalous&quot;  does not disappoint. I do suggest reading the sisters' stories  back-to-back, however. Much of their family background is explained in  &quot;Simply Sinful.&quot;	2000-09-01
US	52558032	R31GTDW1GT7F2W	0373258569	527762985	Hot And Bothered (Blaze)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	If you like &quot;Friends&quot; --	-- you'll no doubt like this story of two friends about to take the next  step in their relationship.<br />Trevor Templeton  &amp; Lee Phillips have  known each other for years, part of a college group that also includes    Katy &amp; Ben (friends, then married), Susan(divorced) and Peter(looking  for his true partner in life). The six have been there for each other  through thick and thin and although Led and Trevor entertained private  thoughts about what it would be like to become intimate with each other,  they have not yet taken that step. Until Lee not only broaches the subject  but pretty much pesters Trevor into going along with the plan.  Not that  Trevor needs to be pestered much.<br />The rest of the story chronicles the  trials and tribulations inherent to such an undertaking. At times, the  other 4 friends seem to be more of a hindrance than help and they tend to  get in the way, but their hearts are in the right place. And the scene in  the elevator is so truly memorable that it alone is worth the price of the  book. <br />I've read many of the Temptation Blaze line and &quot;Hot and  Bothered&quot; wasn't has 'hot' as I'd come to expect. But readers looking  for a good way to spend a day's reading won't be disappointed.	2000-08-29
US	52558032	R2J1G2QV9UOY85	1575663309	201513742	Back to School Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Disappointing after Christmas Cookie Murder	After reading The Christmas Cookie Murder, I decided to read Back to  School Murder because, well . . . it's back to school time. <br />I was so  disappointed. I couldn't believe these two novels were written by the same  person! In Back to School Murder, Lucy seems more concerned about her  feelings for her night school professor, her older kids are brats and Bill  is a total jerk( which could account for Lucy's feeling toward her night  school professor.) In Christmas Cookie Murder, Lucy came across more  sympathetically, her older kids weren't quite as bratty and Bill's moments  of being a jerk were not as many. The mystery seemed to take back seat to  the trials and tribulations of Lucy Stone. By the time I finished the book,  I didn't care who the murderer was, nor did I care about any of the  characters. <br />When I posed this opinion to a mystery fan list, it was  suggested I skip the author's earlier works and try the one coming out in  November, Turkey Day Murder. I think I will take this suggestion.	2000-08-27
US	52558032	R1EH2JOYIH1FHI	0373258984	249337082	Jordan (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 4)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Series Finish	With &quot;Jordan,&quot; Lori Foster pens a fitting finish to what has been a great summer series featuring 4 brothers from Buckhorn County  and  the women who win their hearts. <br />Jordan Sommerville, the area vet, is a  man on a mission, the night he walks into the bar, bent on talking the  owner into being more responsible with dispensing liquor. Before he gets  the chance to speak one word to the owner, his attention and mission take a  side-road as the floor show starts and Jordan finds himself staring at the  woman who will be his wife. He just doesn't know it yet. At the moment, all  he can think is that he's seen bathing suits that covered more than the  scraps of cloth the exotic dancer on stage wore. <br />Georgia Barnes, 23 and  mom to two, uses her dancing skills to earn money to support her children  and her mother. The skimpy outfits the bar owner demands she wear mortifies  her but does add money in tips to feed and clothe her children and pay for  repairs on the house. And she doesn't take too kindly to Jordan barging in  and basically taking over her life and quite possibly getting her place of  employment shut down. <br />In this, the last of the Buckhorn Brothers series,  Ms. Foster's trademark wit, knack for dialogue and sizzling sexual tension  are clearly evident in this story that spotlights the last bachelor and  brings in the whole extended family one last time. Once again, we are  invited to look on as the four brothers clown around, pick on Jordan  unmercifully but are there with the degree of love and support that has  been evident throughout the whole series. And anyone with children, who  knows how the little ones love to mimic what they hear their parents say,  will laugh at the antics of Amber, her dad (Morgan) and her uncle Sawyer as  she parrots a few choice words, much to the men's dismay.<br />If you have not  had the chance to read &quot;Sawyer&quot;, &quot;Morgan&quot;,  &quot;Gabe&quot; or &quot;Jordan,&quot; you're missing some terrific  reading. Fortunately, they are still available, so pack them in your bag to  take on vacation. <br />And thanks, Lori, for giving me a summer of wonderful  men.	2000-08-27
US	52558032	RK34G0AZ8DPNS	0373258755	429564712	Simply Sinful (Blaze) (Temptation, 775)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Simply Sinful=Sinfully Good Reading	In &quot;Simply Sinful,&quot; Carly Phillips pens a hot love story pitting  Detective Kane McDermott against etiquette school, Charmed!, owner Kayla  Luck in a battle of wills where everyone wins. <br />The story has a  believable premise (detective goes undercover to investigate whether  business is a front for prostitution), the characters are people I would  like to have as friends. They're honest with each other, they speak  believable (intelligent) dialogue, there is no BIG MISUNDERSTANDING to keep  them apart and they evoke a sense of sympathy and caring.  <br />Although both  had suffered loss of parents and other close family, my heart went out to  Kane the most. Kayla had her sister (&amp; her aunt, before the aunt's  death), but Kane had no one who really loved him. At times, I had a lump in  my throat as it became clear he blamed himself for the death of his mother  even though he was a child at the time and there was little he could have  done to prevent the suicide.<br />An air of sensuality sizzles and crackles  between them, yet Kane is ever mindful of Kayla's position and the danger  she's in, and treats her with fiercely protective tenderness. (Hot  chocolate and whipped cream will never mean quite the same thing to me  again. ::: big grin::: )  These two are great for each other and I was very  happy with the story's resolution. <br />I loved this story and can't wait to  dive into Cat's story, &quot;Simply Scandalous.&quot; And be on the lookout  for Carly's &quot;Simply Sensual,&quot; in January 2001. I know I will.  Carly also writes novels for Zebra Bouquet, as Karen Drogin. Check out  &quot;Perfect Partners&quot; and &quot;The Right Choice.&quot;	2000-08-27
US	52558032	R1B7F8HYQU6OQL	0505523973	849573170	The Cat's Fancy (Time of Your Life Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Tuna Treats�Yum Yum	In order to enjoy this story, you must be willing to overlook a bit of questionable behavior on the hero's part (running out and leaving a naked  stranger in his apartment alone, not ditching the heinous fianceé earlier  &amp; being a cat owner who lets his unaltered cat run at large)  and buy  into the fantasy that cats have human thoughts and can, apparently, turn  into humans. Being owned by two cats, I find this a scary thought.  :::grin:::  However, Julie Kenner takes the premise and turns it into a  delightful story that had me laughing in places and in other places had me  muttering, &quot;Just say you love her, Nick!&quot;   <br />At one point,  while engaged in a conversation with Nick's sister (Deenie), Maggie (as a  human) absentmindedly tears open a bag of tuna kitty treats and chows down  half the bag before Deenie's horrified look stops her.  In another scene,  Maggie (as a cat) plots a give the clothes Evil Angela keeps at Nick's  house a look and feel of angora. After I read this, I had a horrible  thought that perhaps my Maine Coon, Esmerelda, plots in a similar fashion  with my hubby's fleece pants and shirts.   <br />All in all, The Cat's Fancy,  was a light and fun story. Ms. Kenner has captured my attention as an  author and I look forward to her next single title, which involves a woman  with X-ray vision!	2000-08-22
US	52558032	R1P508TJI5J7ER	1575664763	937302518	Christmas Cookie Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Fun &amp; Entertaining	Christmas Cookie Murder is a pleasant way to spend a weekend. Nothing too deep or profound, the book filled the bill nicely for me when I wanted a  fast and fun read. <br />This was my first glimpse into the life of Lucy  Stone, and I find now I should go back to book 1 and advance from there,  for I think that I've missed out on much of the backstory of her life and  family. <br />The story takes place in Tinker's Cove, Maine and features Lucy  as reporter for the town's paper and inveterate amateur sleuth, this time  the victim is a young woman rumored to be the reason for the breakup of the  marriage of the town's dentist and his wife. Did the good doctor do it? The  police think so and arrest him. But suspicion also hovers over the head of  the good doctor's wife, who had been overheard to mouth vile thoughts  toward the deceased. Add to this a growing concern over the use of alcohol  by local teens, the influx of hard drugs into the tiny coastal town, a  police chief whose ideas and attitudes come into direct conflict with just  about everyone and Lucy has a lot to ponder and solve. And how she solves  the mystery is quite by fluke.<br />Even though this is my first Lucy Stone  mystery, I have the rest in my ToBeRead pile and look forward to learning  more about Lucy and Tinker's Cove.	2000-08-17
US	52558032	R2O0A43ZT3TY71	0373258690	196428300	It Takes A Rebel (Sweet Talkin' Guys) (Temptation, 769)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hero in desperate need of an attitude adjustment	Now, this isn't to say that Jack Stillman, hero of Stephanie Bond's &quot;It Takes A Rebel&quot; isn't an appealing character. He is. As Ms.  Bond puts it,  Jack is 'clodhopping  his way through life' reveling in past  athletic glories and having business opportunities handed to him on a  silver platter because of those athletic feats. Until --- he comes up  against Alexandra Tremont.  <br />Part of the Tremont department store  'empire', Alex strives for her father's love and attention, while Mr.  Tremont prefers to lavish attention on Alex's fiancé, Heath, and Jack  Stillman, whose advertising firm (which is owned by Jack's brother, Derek,  with Jack dropping in once in a while) is in the running for a lucrative  new account for Tremont's store. Jack doesn't exactly get off to a stellar  start with Alex on her first visit to the agency's office. He decides to  fall back on his well-documented charm, with Alex fighting him all the way.  Lots of fireworks and heated encounters ensue, with an especially steamy  scene at the store as Jack models a thong, as Jack does his level best to  convince Alex and her father to go with the Stillman agency for the  account. Al Tremont wants immediate blanket approval but agrees to consider  Alex's opinion after giving Jack a two-week trial run. Oh, and in addition,  Al wants Jack (or 'Jack the Attack', as he was know in his college football  days) to be the spokesmodel for the store. <br />I have to say that Jack's  attitude toward Alex at times left me wishing she'd been a bit more  outspoken against some of the things he did and said. And for Alex, I  didn't agree with her repeated &quot;make love to me, Jack/oh now I feel  like slime for what I did to Heath&quot; attitude. In my opinion, the first  time should have been categorically the last time or she should have come  clean with Heath immediately and returned the engagement ring. I didn't  like the 'feel' of her having sex with Jack while wearing the ring of  another man.Twice. <br />In the end, all in resolved: Al Tremont admits that  he loves his daughter deeply (just didn't show it enough) and makes her  President of the company, Stillman Agency gets the account, Heath resigns  and takes a great job in Cincinnati and of course, Jack gets Alex. <br />I'm a  big fan of Ms. Bond and though I had trouble with a few elements in  &quot;It Takes a Rebel&quot;, it definitely won't prevent me from picking  up her next releases. Look for Ms. Bond's single title from St. Martin's -  &quot;Our Husband&quot; - coming in November 2000. I had the privilege of  receiving an advance reading copy of this book, and anyone who passes it by  will be missing out on one of the truly great books of this year. Pre-order  this book as soon as possible.	2000-08-17
US	52558032	R784C689U988U	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Great Beginning --	I thought the premise of the story, Julie and Romeo, held great promise. Since I can't relate to the 20 and 30-somethings anymore, I was looking  forward to a story that featured 50+ main characters and I stayed  interested and delighted until - Romeo and Julie's offspring showed their  true colors.  Yipes!  Maybe I'm living in a fantasy world, but where do  these kids get off talking to their parents like this? Where do they get  off making explicit and implied threats against members of the other  family? And where-oh-where are these parents' brains to let these kids get  away with all this?  And the crackpot grandmother was no better. Nora  needed a swift kick in the rear and Joe was nothing more than a thug (quite  possibly with bigger aspirations in mind). Plummy was the only decent one  in the bunch, with Sandy and Tony(absent for most of the book) coming in a  close second. <br />I did like Julie and Romeo (at least in the beginning). I  cheered them on finding love after life had dealt them both lousy hands  (although Julie was infinitely better off without Mort).  But as it became  apparent that neither of them was willing to take a stern stand against  their kids and were content to let this second chance slip by, I began to  lose interest in the story and the characters. Yes, they did 'come around'  at the end, but by that time it was too late. And by this time, it really  didn't surprise me that not one of the kids offered any sort of apology to  their parents for the grief they caused.   <br />I do have one comment to make  to the editor/author/proofreader,etc. Those of us who really *do* live in  this area know that the landmark grocery giant is Demoulas - not Demoula.  Therefore, on page 5,  &quot; . . . into his aisle at Demoula's.&quot;  should have read: &quot; . . . into his aisle at Demoulas.'&quot;	2000-08-10
US	52558032	R10Z3MPA40YP6Y	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	2	12	17	N	N	I really wanted to like this book.	I have to say right up front that this book is the first I've ever read that is written in see-saw POVs, one being that of some off-screen 'all-seeing' narrator who is bent on giving us all these insider views into what different people are really thinking. It makes for a jerky reading experience. The moment you're into a scene, all of sudden you're jerked out and into the mind of the narrator. I found it annoying and will go to lengths not to attempt another book written in this manner. <br />This book had the potential to make a statement about the way some women handle how they are viewed in society today. In my opinion, it failed. Jemima Jones is overweight and not happy. Men just don't respond to her the way they do other (read: thin) women.  In an effort to escape her unhappiness, she turns to her newly acquired Internet knowledge and immediately gets involved in a chat room, with a participant named Brad, from California while pining for fellow co-worker, Ben, who sees Jemima as a friend, but little more. Add to this mix a mother obsessed with thinness, two roommates, who-quite frankly-are twits and a female co-worker, Geraldine, whose shallowness is somewhat redeemed later in the story when she takes Jemima under her wing (although I had to wonder just what her motivation was).<br />As Jemima becomes more cyber-involved with Brad, she finds her weight dropping. When he asks for her photo, she sends him a digitally altered version. He's overjoyed. She's beautiful!! Thus begins Jemima's sojourn into shallowness and where the book fails women. You see, Brad now wants to meet this stunning goddess, and she decides to fly to L.A. to meet him. Serious doubts about her sanity for doing this aside, I'm deeply disappointed that the author plunged Jemima into a dangerous weight loss routine for all the wrong reasons. One would think that after reading the chilling stories of eating disorders, the author would have at least played up the main reason for which people should lose excess weight - - health.  One should NOT view losing weight as a way to gain acceptance and true love. Yes, we are a planet obsessed with weight and how it equates (illogically) to beauty. I wish the author would have taken this book and used it as a way to blow these equations sky high....<br />At the very end of the book...Jemima decides to...not obsess as much with her weight. [Unfortunately, it is] too little, too late - and for all the wrong reasons.	2000-08-08
US	52558032	R35CFGZ9KQ2ZP9	0505523876	735348451	Truly, Madly Viking (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Truly, Truly Enjoyable	Suspend disbelief of time-travel long enough to read Sandra Hill's sequel  to The Last Viking and you'll have yourself a truly delightful reading  experience. Chock full of humor and pathos, this latest addition to Hill's  Viking series is bound to touch your heart at some level. At times I found  myself laughing out loud, while other times I found a lump forming in my  throat as I read of Jorund's (Joe's) loss of family, his bewilderment in a  new land and his attempts to help those in the mental-health facility  support group into which he has been thrust. His blossoming relationship  with Maggie is definitely steamy and that with her twin daughters(who so  remind him of his loss) tugged my heartstrings more than once. His  fascination with TV soap operas, Big Macs, the Internet and other aspects  of our lives that we take for granted are shown humorously through the eyes  of one for whom this is a whole new world. <br />Ms. Hill has just the right  touch when it comes to creating intelligent, good-hearted characters with  whom you can sympathize and filling their mouths with words that will make  you chuckle or get misty-eyed. Her secondary character, former Navy SEAL,  Steve Askey (did anyone else read ASCII in this?), and his story (and how  Jorund helped Steve with PTSD) is poignant and served to increase my liking  of Jorund as a character and Ms. Hill as an author. <br />I, like the  characters in the story, am skeptical of time-travel, but I do believe in  miracles. If this describes you, also, then you won't be disappointed with  Truly, Madly Viking.	2000-08-05
US	52558032	R181E3AFF8C362	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	1	7	26	N	N	Nine Chapters did it for me	By the time I'd finished the first nine chapters, I had it with the crude characters. Perhaps some will find the humor laugh-out-loud funny, but I prefer humor that is more intellectually appealing and I want characters  worthy of my sympathy. Unfortunately, this book provided neither. What it  did provide was the premise that &quot;crude is cute.&quot; <br />This was the  first book I'd tried by Linda Howard. Most likely, it will be the last.	2000-07-31
US	52558032	R1NPIX095W1IAP	0688174647	773421402	Beautiful Wasps Having Sex	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Don't let the cover fool you . . .	I hadn't planned on buying this book, because my book-buying funds had been seriously depleted and I wasn't that taken with either the dust jacket or the title. But while waiting for a friend at a local bookstore, I began  reading the first few pages. By the time I was 10 pages in I knew I wanted  to finish it, so I forked over my plastic and I'm glad I did. <br />Frankie  Jordan, screenwriter, has been dumped by her husband, her screenwriting  career is slowing veering south, and her beloved grandmother has taken a  turn for the worse(brought on by the deplorable treatment Grandma receives  from Frankie's father). Most of the book focuses on Frankie's relationship  with her parents, her quest to see her screenplays made into movies, and  her tactics for survival in Hollywood. At times, the story was poignant and  at other times humorous. One humorous scene takes place in the home of  Shepard Blum. I'm not quite sure what Shepard does for a living, but  Frankie had not seen him for some time and thinks perhaps he has called to  ask her to write a TV pilot. She agrees to meet him at his house, but soon  gets her fill of his pretentiousness and wants to get on with dinner.  Shepard, big on presentation, makes a big production of displaying the main  course, a crisp and glistening duck. Unfortunately, in the course of  showing off, Shepard encounters a spot of duck grease on the floor. As he  falls the duck is propelled out of the dish, over Shepard's head and across  the floor like a greased hockey puck. Shepard, on the floor with his  forehead gashed open and blood and duck grease everywhere, is not amused,  but I got a chuckle out of seeing him get his comeuppance. <br />In places,  the story mires down in heavy descriptive narrative. I wish Ms. Carter   would have focussed more on the character's introspection/thoughts/actions  and less on describing settings down to the minutest detail. And I agree  with the New York Time's Book Review's  assessment that there aretoo many  Yiddishisms of the sort &quot;you might expect from early vaudeville.&quot;  I started to skip over them as they began to distract me from the story.  <br />I liked the way the author ended the story as I felt my sympathy for  Frankie was well-placed. I was left with no doubt in my mind that she would  go on to be successful in her own right. But, better than, that, she would  go on to be a better human being as a result of the decisions she'd  made.<br />I would definitely read a second book by Ms. Carter.	2000-07-30
US	52558032	R286IP90OIG0B7	0553526820	270984394	Wicked Widow	Books	3	4	5	N	N	OK, but not memorable.	I used to read Amanda Quick's novels as soon as they were released.  For the past couple of years, though, they came to sound like repeats. I found myself disenchanted and hadn't read one until the buzz surrounding The  Wicked Widow intrigued me enough to buy the audio tapes.   Unfortunately,this latest story has nothing to make it outstanding or even  memorable.<br />It's always difficult for me to pinpoint why a book just  doesn't connect with me, especially one that doesn't deserve a failing  grade nor one of excellence. The writing is acceptable, but Artemis and  Madeline and the story line are predictable, and the Vanza aspect is  becoming overdone.  The headstrong &amp; obstinate female and the  grudgingly obliging male have long been a trademark of Quick's stories.  Somewhere along the line, they've all started to sound the same and in the  process I've become apathetic toward them and their plights. I really just  didn't care. <br />The only bright spot was the reading done by Katherine  Kellgren.  Her melodious voice and ability to create multiple audio  personalities saved the book from my itchy &quot;Eject&quot; finger.  <br />I  was hoping The Wicked Widow would break my long Quick Drought, but alas I  still thirst. I'm hoping her Eclipse Bay, under the name Jayne Ann Krentz  will offer more refreshment.	2000-07-28
US	52558032	R1DOCRKEBFR0HU	055357857X	812963227	The Dead Cat Bounce: A Home Repair is Homicide Mystery	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Dead Cat Bounce - Not What You Think	The eye-catching title is really a reference to stock market jargon, which fits neatly into the story as the past career choice of the main character,Jacobia Tiptree, and which was extremely lucrative as evidenced  by the vast amounts of money she shells out to fix up her antique house in  Eastport,Maine. I live in one just like it, so I know of what she speaks.  <br />The mystery of who killed Threnody McIlwaine was filled with numerous  red herrings, yet I had it narrowed down to 2 suspects about 2/3 of the way  through. I liked the Eastport, Maine setting as the northern coast of Maine  is one New England area I've yet to visit, and Ms. Graves' details made the  area sound very inviting.<br />Referencing cozy mysteries I've read lately, I  felt this book a bit overlong in comparison, that the story could have been  wrapped up sooner if some of the renovation details had been sacrificed and  the story tightened up. Another common theme is the abusive ex/likeable new  significant other and in this instance, as in previous books by other  authors, I found nothing to like about the ex and a lot to like about Wade  Sorenson. However, the similarities won't stop me from reading the other 2  books in this series (Triple Witch and Wicked Fix) and, in fact, they are  in my to-be-read pile.	2000-07-25
US	52558032	R3AKIQL5YZQOKD	082176277X	398319520	Perfect Partners (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Realistic story with likeable characters	This is the first book I've read by Ms. Drogin, but it won't be the last. In fact, her subsequent Zebra Bouquet, The Right Choice, is in my To Be Read stack. <br />Perfect Partners takes two people, both lawyers, who have  each suffered the loss of a sibling and thrusts them together for the good  of their little niece. Neither hero nor heroine comes into the arrangement  without baggage. In order to help the little girl deal with the loss of her  mother and father, her aunt and uncle agree to set aside their differences  for her welfare. How they work things out and arrive at the final solution  is heart wrenching at times.<br />The author did a wonderful job of creating  two 'real people' leads whom I bonded with immediately. Their interactions  with each other, their individual emotonal scars and the healing process  involved in getting past them were all well-written.<br />Although this book  is out-of-print, it's well worth the reader's time and effort to find it.	2000-07-21
US	52558032	R1BU5UD4060AGE	0352334983	611569697	In the Flesh (Black Lace)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another winner from Emma Holly	I have to admit, Emma Holly is my favorite Black Lace author. She always combines high sexuality with a satisfying love story and &quot;In the Flesh&quot; is the latest in a string of winners for her. <br />I liked the  two lead charcters, David and Chloe,  what they went through to end up in a  committed relationship with one another, the story line and the motivations  for their actions. Their dark moments drew them closer together and made  them realize that they were destined for each other.  The bondage in the  story is quite light and fits perfectly into this story which is never  rough or raw. <br />Ms. Holly continues to show why she's a top-notch author  of women's erotica.	2000-07-17
US	52558032	R23HUERVW3UOKY	0505523779	905828360	Against His Will	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Move over, Fox Mulder. Agent Donnelly is here.	In Trish Jensen's latest, &quot;Against His Will,&quot; we have the unlikely Combination of Jake Donnelly, FBI Agent, a bulldog named Muffin, Bob and Scooter (the T-Shirt guinea pigs-trust me, you have to read the  story to get the scoop on these two), and a lovely doggie psychologist,  LeAnne Crosby.  <br />Tough Fibbie that he is, Jake wants nothing to do with  Muffin until he finds out his beloved Aunt Sophie has tied his inheritance  to his care of the dog, and that in the event of his default, all reverts  to the lovely LeAnne.  Quickly, we find out why Jake is so emotional about  one of Aunt Sophie's properties. He's also suspicious  about LeAnne's  occupation and her up-scale resort for humans and their canine owner.  Certain that she's fleecing the unsuspecting, he decides to play along with  the terms of the will if only to debunk the doggie shrink. What evolves is  one of the most entertaining stories I've read in a long time as Jake and  LeAnne at first circle each other warily and then break down and admit  their attraction for each other. <br />The book had me laughing and, in the  end, crying. It was one of those books I wanted to go on for another 300  pages or so *just* so it wouldn't end. My heart went out to Jake and how  important his Aunt Sophie and Uncle George were to him. And I loved LeAnne  for her ability to get 'close' to him and help him. <br />I don't know of a  better way to spend a couple of summer days, and if  Amazon would let me,  I'd give &quot;Against His Will&quot; a 6-star rating. I can't recommend  this one highly enough and I'm looking forward to Ms.Jensen's next release.	2000-07-13
US	52558032	R5AYR82ZK3W36	0312254563	804259208	Large Target: A Josephine Fuller Mystery	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Too many people, doing too many things	After&quot;Larger Than Death,&quot; I was really looking forward to &quot;Large Target&quot; and involving myself in the exploits of Josephine Fuller. Somewhere along the line, her exploits became lost in a maze of  over-plotting and so many extra characters, I couldn't keep track of them.  It yanked me out of the story everytime I had to stop and think who Ivor  was married to, who Dwight was (and why he had problems), etc. etc.  Mulligan puts in a less-than-interesting appearance. Although the writing  was good, the mystery itself was just so-so<br />I think Jo should get back to  Seattle as soon as possible. She was out of her element in San Diego,  surrounded by people I cared nothing about. I really *did* care about her  Seattle friends.	2000-07-06
US	52558032	RPGWMJX65Q7TH	0373440243	710009343	Harder They Fall (Love & Laughter #24)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Trish Jensen has a wonderful way with romance	This is one lady whose career you'll want to follow. Rarely does an author combine characters, plot and motivation so well. The characters, Michael and Darcy were sympathetic and I was able to empathize with their plights  and their motivations for their actions. Michael is the consummate hero,  putting himself last in all aspects of this life. Darcy is a heroine in  definite need of a caring, loving man. One who sees past her insecurites  and helps her overcome them. <br />For a warm story that will leave you  celebrating love, you can't do better than &quot;The Harder They  Fall.&quot;	2000-07-06
US	52558032	R2RNBG68M3WT4N	0373258917	445222104	Shameless (Temptation, 791)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Disappointment after Midnight Kisses	After reading and loving Midnight Kisses by Kimberly Raye, I was really looking forward to this month's Blaze, Shameless, for a great read at the beach.<br />Words cannot express my disappointment. Where were the lovable  characters like in Midnight Kisses? The snappy dialogue, the  OK-I'll-suspend-disbelief-because-this-is-so-much-fun-to-read plot? <br />From  the first chapter I felt no sympathy for either hero or heroine and the  plot was not one I could get into: basically an &quot;I want you in my bed,  so we'll work out the court settlement in trade.&quot; Two weeks of sex for  sex's sake and then it's good-bye. By the time the hero and heroine  got  around to admitting there was something more, the book was nearly over. I  also felt the hero acted too much the juvenile at times when attempting to  get his point across, such as walking into Deb's office and throwing her  over his shoulder in front of her co-workers. <br />The makings were there for  a great summer sizzler of a read and I expected as much given Midnight  Kisses. Unfortunately, Shameless never came close to living up to my  expectations.	2000-07-02
US	52558032	R1VVJUJQCXE6CI	0373258909	139312248	Morgan (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Another winning Hudson brother	Morgan, the second in the quadruple-title series from Lori Foster, won't let down Hudson fans. As with Sawyer, the book's cover is a disappointment that doesn't come close to how I see Morgan Hudson, but the story is just  as entertaining as what I've come to expect from Ms. Foster.<br />An  insufferable man, whose middle name should be &quot;Control&quot;, Morgan  Hudson is about to learn what it means to be felled by a tiny slip of a  woman, what it means to lose that control.  The woman in question, Misty  Malone, has a lot of things on her mind and getting involved with the local  sheriff is not one of them. She's convinced he can't stand her and that  suits her just fine. Trouble is, that's not how Morgan feels at all and he  has a hard time coming to terms with what he wants and why he wants it.<br />Misty and Morgan are temperamentally matched - not exactly the ideal for  either to win an argument, and there are plenty of battles between these  two strong-willed characters. The ice-cream cone battle of wills in  Morgan's office is priceless.  I actually gasped with the characters at one  point. But as Misty learns to accept Morgan for who he is, and comes to  love him all the more for it, she also comes to realize that behind the  gruff exterior is a gentle man with bouts of insecurity when it comes to  her. He also seems to have a devil of a time uttering those three little  words.<br />The showdown between these two, in front of the sheriff's  office [and the whole town], is wrenching and humorous and my heart went  out to Morgan. It's always fun to watch a tough guy struggle with the  realization that he's fallen in love and this tough guy was no exception.  The bigger they are, the harder they fall.<br />Although this installment  didn't have the same level of humor as the first, the story again features  the entire Hudson brood in kitchen scenes where the easy camaraderie of the  men in the family -- who  tease, torment, defend and protect their siblings  (and spouses)  - are a delight to read. We also are introduced to more of  the town's residents and to Honey and Misty's father.<br />Each Hudson is  taking on a personality of his own and I'm looking forward to learning more  about Gabe.r siblings  (and spouses)  - are a delight to read. We also are introduced to more of  the town's residents and to Honey and Misty's father. <br />Each Hudson is  taking on a personality of his own and I'm looking forward to learning more  about Gabe.	2000-07-01
US	52558032	R2SO5TH4C5ZGC0	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	I've read several of Jane Heller's novels, including Crystal Clear, Sis Boom Bah &amp; Infernal Affairs. Name Dropping tops them all. Bill &amp; Nancy were characters I cared about. Ms. Heller did a wonderful job of  creating two completely different Nancys and putting them into a plot that,  for me anyway, was believable. I'm sure that many of us have, at one time  or another, wondered what it would be like to step into a more glamorous  life and once we'd tasted it, I'm also sure that some of us would be, like  Nancy Z, reluctant to let it go. Bill Harris was a man with a few secrets  himself. How they are revealed and the ramifications to his relationship  with Nancy was one surprise after another, held my interest, and kept me  glued to the story. <br />Ms.Heller  created an inriguing blend of mystery and  romance and wove them together against the backdrop of two disparate  environments: a pre-school and an upscale jewelry store. The cast of  secondary characters  was not so long as to bog down the story and  contained enough variety to spice it up.<br />I liked this book much more than  Sis Boom Bah, and hope Ms. Heller's next novel is as good as Name Dropping.	2000-06-27
US	52558032	R20219SN8FUCPQ	0373258240	207121961	Private Lessons (Blaze)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Was she, or wasn't she?	For the life of her, Harley couldn't remember if  'professional stripper' was part of her résumé. Not after an accident at the client's house left her without her memory. She figured she had to be, given the state of her  dress and the bachelor party she'd been hired for. But something about her  struck host, Grant Riordan, as being totally out of synch with the picture  she presented. He offers to let her stay at his house, a quiet place where  she can rest and regain her memory. But resting is not quite the way things  work out.<br />In a sizzling story of true first-love, the author makes us  privy to the characters' sensual awakening. Grant, divorced from a cold,  corporate wife, had decided that the loner, stuffed shirt life suited him  just fine, until 'Harley' showed up at his door the night of a bachelor  party for his co-worker. From the moment Harley entered his life, Grant  felt his heart begin to melt. First with concern, then with something much  stronger, for there was no denying the strong sexual tension simmering  between him and his houseguest. <br />Harley's heart began to pound each time  they came close, until the their attraction could no longer be denied.  Grateful for his generosity and caring while she attempted to patch the  holes in her memory, Harley made sure nothing she did threatened Grant's  position in the community or his job. Little did she know that for Grant,  none of it mattered. She had come to be the overriding reason for his  living. But what would happen when she did recover her lost past? How could  they reconcile the two opposed worlds from which they came? <br />Private  Lessons is one red-hot love story. Be prepared to turn up the air  conditioning. I may never look at hot tubs or swimming pools quite the same  way ever again. And I won't reveal anything further, except to say: The  ending will leave you breathless.	2000-06-27
US	52558032	R3FWEUB0ET554M	0373258208	926176891	Black Velvet Valentines (Harlequin Temptation, No 720)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sweet Treat	A trio of short, Valentine-themed stories, the book is an entertaining quick read. Any of the stories lend themselves to longer books, which is what I hope Ms. Alexander will do in the future, especially the final  story, Heart's Desire. Romance readers may balk at the absence of a true  happily-ever-after ending, even though it's obvious that it will occur. I,  for one, would have loved to been privy to that. <br />The writing sparkles  with the right blend of drama and humor. Both of Ms. Alexander's previous  Black Velvet(both out of print) books are in my ToBeRead pile and have now  moved closer to the top. I do hope Carrie decides to add a 4th. <br />Barbara  O'Neill	2000-06-27
US	52558032	R2CTOHS1P788YV	0670886297	356542717	The Trouble with Harriet (Ellie Haskell Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Acceptable,, but not memorable.	Readers of Dorothy Cannell's &quot;The Trouble with Harriet&quot; may be disappointed. After such wonderful stories like &quot;The Thin Woman&quot; and &quot;How to Murder the Man of Your Dreams,&quot; &quot;The Trouble  With Harriet&quot; drags with little humor and passages more suited to  dramatic soliloquies. More time was spent on Ellie's father's bouts of  depression and ill-humor than I thought was necessary and the premise of  the mystery itself was a bit bland.   <br />I'd really like it if one of these  books were to take Ellie and Ben away from Chittendon Falls on a holiday  and then shove them headlong into a mystery....but please!  Let's get these  two  together without the kiddies and Freddie lurking about.  Frankly, I'd  love to read more of Ben.   <br />Although the book was acceptable, I found  myself skimming and skipping, a sure sign of boredom with a story.	2000-06-23
US	52558032	R1AUXRAQOTC2IK	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Best  Plum yet	Hard to believe that Janet Evanovich could top High Five, but with Hot Six, she manages to do just that.<br />Yes. I know who's behind the door. No. I'm not telling. That tidbit is just the beginning of one of the best  novels I've read so far this year. I'd waited a long time for Hot Six to  arrive, anticipation building, and I was not disappointed in any way.   <br />Evanovich's flair for snappy dialogue and creating quirky characters  hasn't diminished a bit. Granny Mazur is just as loopy as we remember and  Rex is still running  his little legs off and Uncle Sandor's Big Blue just  keeps on going. <br />But now, we have some truly worthy additions to the cast  of whacky secondary characters, not the least of which is Bob, a new 'man'  in Stephanie's life. All add a dash of spice to the latest in the  Plum/Morelli/Ranger saga, which gets more interesting with every page.  The  main characters have become so ingrained in my mind, I almost think of them  as family. Almost. <br />A truly enjoyable read for your summer enjoyment,  although I would suggest a glass of your favorite drink, heavily iced, to  accompany HOT SIX's high sizzle factor. Then, there's the cake. But that's  Bob's story. <br />I can't recommend this book highly enough.	2000-06-22
US	52558032	R53GSMS5BLPNC	0373258240	207121961	Private Lessons (Blaze)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Was she, or wasn't she?	For the life of her, Harley couldn't remember if  'professional stripper' was part of her r&eacute;sum&eacute;. Not after an accident at the client's house left her without her memory. She figured she had to be, given the state of her  dress and the bachelor party she'd been hired for. But something about her  struck host, Grant Riordan, as being totally out of synch with the picture  she presented. He offers to let her stay at his house, a quiet place where  she can rest and regain her memory. But resting is not quite the way things  work out.<br />In a sizzling story of true first-love, the author makes us  privy to the characters' sensual awakening. Grant, divorced from a cold,  corporate wife, had decided that the loner, stuffed shirt life suited him  just fine, until 'Harley' showed up at his door the night of a bachelor  party for his co-worker. From the moment Harley entered his life, Grant  felt his heart begin to melt. First with concern, then with something much  stronger, for there was no denying the strong sexual tension simmering  between him and his houseguest.<br />Harley's heart began to pound each time  they came close, until the their attraction could no longer be denied.  Grateful for his generosity and caring while she attempted to patch the  holes in her memory, Harley made sure nothing she did threatened Grant's  position in the community or his job. Little did she know that for Grant,  none of it mattered. She had come to be the overriding reason for his  living. But what would happen when she did recover her lost past? How could  they reconcile the two opposed worlds from which they came?<br />Private  Lessons is one red-hot love story. Be prepared to turn up the air  conditioning. I may never look at hot tubs or swimming pools quite the same  way ever again. And I won't reveal anything further, except to say: The  ending will leave you breathless.	2000-06-21
US	52558032	R3QVLD79XV6A12	0373258208	926176891	Black Velvet Valentines (Harlequin Temptation, No 720)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweet Treat	A trio of short, Valentine-themed stories, the book is an entertaining quick read. Any of the stories lend themselves to longer books, which is what I hope Ms. Alexander will do in the future, especially the final  story, Heart's Desire. Romance readers may balk at the absence of a true  happily-ever-after ending, even though it's obvious that it will occur. I,  for one, would have loved to been privy to that.<br />The writing sparkles  with the right blend of drama and humor. Both of Ms. Alexander's previous  Black Velvet(both out of print) books are in my ToBeRead pile and have now  moved closer to the top. I do hope Carrie decides to add a 4th.	2000-06-21
US	52558032	R1M2AA5E49TY0Q	1552041921	182343456	On Fire	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good blend of romance and mystery	This review is based on the audio tapes:   This was my first book by Ms.Neggers, and although I don't usually read romantic suspense, I did enjoy On Fire. The hero and heroine (Riley St. Joe and John Straker) are  two of the most obstinate, hard-headed people I'd ever met (and not in a  bad way). Both are intent on solving the crimes and protecting loved ones,  and in the process these childhood friends and adversaries find themselves  falling in love with each other. <br />I enjoyed most the setting of Boston  north to the coast of Maine. Carla Neggers has it down pat. The  oceanographic setting for the story was one I'd not read before and I found  it very interesting. <br />The tape's reader was excellent in that she was  able to assume so many different voices, which I think is essential in a  multi-character story. If there was one drawback it was that she dropped  her voice too much at the end of many sentences, making it difficult to  understand unless the volume was cranked up high. That aside, I would  definitely try another of Ms. Neggers books on tape.	2000-06-15
US	52558032	R2WDRXBMCKTZ79	0373258879	657759395	Too Hot To Sleep (Blaze) (Temptation, 787)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great book for those who like their romance steamy!	Stephanie Bond's latest book is definitely not for the faint of heart. Having said that, I will also say that if you are one who likes their romance steamy you can't do better than this sexy, spicy, and often  humorous tale of the ultimate 'wrong number'. I can certainly relate to the  problem Georgia has with her new phone. I still have to call my son to help  re-program the VCR remote. So, screwing up the speed dial is entirely  possible to me.  I did wonder about the believability of the heroine not  knowing it wasn't her boyfriend on the line, but the author offers a  plausible reason and because the phone calls were only a few, it was  believable for me.    Ms. Bond definitely pushes the envelope with this  book, with her well-crafted 'flying solo' scenes.  Does she push it out of  bounds? Not in my opinion. The language is suggestive, but not explicit.   She also gives us those elements we've come to expect: a hero and heroine  who make mistakes and aren't afraid to apologize. The hero, Ken Medlock,  makes a memorable case for himself in the end as he tries to legitimately  win Georgia's love after having kept the truth from her for so long. Does  this make him less heroic? No. It makes him human.  <br />I've read several of  Ms. Bond's earlier books, and look forward to seeing more of her writing  for this particular category. I did learn one very important fact from  reading this book: There are white chocolate-covered cherries!	2000-06-13
US	52558032	R3RD6EISZGHQ1C	0140244816	841120558	What's A Girl Gotta Do? (Robin Hudson, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Robin Hudson's one tough cookie --	-- And so she should be if she's to survive her reversals of fortune at work and in love. Relagated to an undesireable job at the TV station where she works (due to un-couthness during a live White House broadcast) and  demoted to the title of ex-wife, Robin seems to be one of those people to  whom trouble is perpetually attracted. Having to face the ex's chipper  young 'other woman' *and* deal with a murdered blackmailer requires all the  resourcefulness Robin can muster.<br />The 'who' in whodunit came as a  surprise to me. <br />This is my first book by Sparkle Hayter, but it won't be  the last.	2000-06-11
US	52558032	R3U5HAV2PAY0CG	0380809087	970567738	The Defiant One	Books	5	9	16	N	N	A wonderful blend of amour, angst and humor.	Danelle Harmon's at the top of her game in her latest addition to the de Montforte saga. When last we saw Andrew, he was in his ill-fated flying machine with his brother Charles, winging from the fire that  ruined his  laboratory and sent noxious fumes into the air, the aftereffects of which  play a major part in  The Defiant One. Oh yes, and we again have Lucien,  Duke of Blackheath--matchmaker extraordinaire--at his meddlesome, obnoxious  best. (Ms. Harmon promises that Lucien will get a proper comeuppance in The  Wicked One, due in January, 2001 &amp; I eagerly await seeing him meet his  match.) <br />If all this were not enough, The Defiant One offers something  for those who are animal lovers ( Our heroine, Celsie, is a woman far ahead  of her time in her cause against the abuse of animals), a  discovered-by-accident aphrodisiac that has half the country after it, and  enough humor to have kept me chuckling in all the right places. <br />I've  read every one of Danelle's books, starting with her first, Pirate in My  Arms, and The Defiant One adds another jewel to her literary crown.  Ms.  Harmon just keeps getting better and I can't recommend this book highly  enough.	2000-06-10
US	52558032	RLZ4OYJACZP71	0380795981	495033943	Killer Wedding (Madeline Bean Catering Mysteries #3)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	This won't be Ms. Farmer's last book for me!	This is the first novel I've read by Jerrilyn Farmer, but her first two are in my ToBeRead pile. Farmer's writing is witty, entertaining and well-wrought in the ways of humorous mysteries. The cast of secondary  characters is manageable so that you don't need a score card to keep track  of them and she gives the heroine Madeline Bean a generous share of male  attentiveness as the plucky caterer cum sleuth picks her way through a  debacle of a wedding to discover who killed the wedding planner and used  her body as a dinosaurian accessory. <br />If you're a fan of Diane Mott  Davidson, Sophie Dunbar or any of the writers of humorous mystery, you will  enjoy Killer Wedding. <br />Note to Ms. Farmer: Please....less Arlo and *much*  more Chuck Honnett	2000-06-06
US	52558032	R1COKX0WZEYQG7	0373257864	549341801	Seducing Sullivan	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A book worth hunting for	After I'd read Ms. Leto's newest release, Good Girls Do!, I knew I had to hunt down her backlist, and I'm sure glad I was able to locate Seducing Sullivan.  Seducing Sullivan doesn't have the playfulness of Good Girls  Do!; what it has are a sympathetic hero and heroine who will tear at your  emotions, involved in a believable and wrenching plot about love remembered  and love reclaimed. The only problem I had initially was trying to decipher  Angela's real reasons for  &quot;getting Jack Sullivan out of her  system.&quot;  This didn't detract from my enjoyment of the book, however  and, in fact, helped me understand where Angela was coming from. Anyone  would be very lucky to have her as a friend, as Jack ultimately discovers.  In the end, I found my heart hurting for Jack as the story resolves  itself.<br />I highly recommend you try and find this book.	2000-06-05
US	52558032	R2EZ6R4J8UY5CF	0373258860	285877616	Sawyer (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Do NOT judge this book by its cover	The man pictured on the cover is not Sawyer Hudson. Trust me. I don't know  *who* he is, but it's not Sawyer. And raspberries to the people (not the  author)  responsible for this cover. That aside, I want to know where these  guys were when I was younger. I honestly don't know when I've had a more  enjoyable time reading a book. It has caring, compassionate men (who are  also  as gorgeous as all get out), humor, and steamy love scenes. The one  kitchen  scene is worth double the price of the book. And the heroine is no  shrinking violet, given to standing up to these guys and giving back in  full  measure what they dole out to her. All played against a backdrop of  love, respect and protectiveness.<br />Ms. Foster has again given her readers  a gem to savor along with the  tantalizing prospect of more Hudson  brothers' stories this summer, which  could pose a problem if one needs to  decide which is more important: Weeding the garden or losing themselves in  Buckhorn.	2000-06-01
US	52558032	R1RD5Z89AQUA82	0688171478	663888544	Friendship Cake: A Novel	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Good book for summer reading.	In the style of Patricia Gaffney's Saving Graces, Friendship Cake is a real-life novel whose focus is women, the lives they live and the problems they face.  <br />Friendship Cake takes 5 disparate church women and throws  them together in the course of putting together a church cookbook. But,  it's more than recipes that get tested. Friendship, love and trust are put  to the test over and over as the ladies learn to accept the others --- and  themselves --- for who they are. <br />I didn't know what to expect from this  novel, which is written by a pastor in North Carolina and I have to say  that I do hope Pastor Hinton has more stories like this tucked away, just  waiting to be written. Quite a wonderful book.	2000-05-28
US	52558032	RX3LNJDDTDJWD	0373258836	158495716	Good Girls Do! (Blaze)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful, Sexy - Great Summer Reading!	Can Miranda Carpenter resist the charms of Noah Yeager? It's not easy, but Miranda is determined to give it her best shot. Her sexy colleague doesn't help matters when he insists on 'helping' her win The Most Virtuous Woman  on Campus award. Along the way, Miranda sets out to teach  confront-your-conflict Noah a thing or two about commitment.<br />I LOVED this  book! I'd never read one of Ms. Leto's stories, but I intend to correct  that oversight. She has drawn very likeable, sympathetic characters to whom  I was drawn immediately. Her dialogue is true and snappy. And the  'thunderstorm' love scene is guaranteed to leave your pulse pounding. [It  was my favorite in the whole book].<br />This is a great book to tuck into  your beach tote this summer. If you think it's steamy at the beach, just  wait until you read Good Girls Do!	2000-05-27
US	52558032	R3O72FPNXE7UST	1890768243	353027852	Shiveree: An Eclaire Mystery (Eclaire Mysteries) (Eclaire Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Disappointing ending	Knowing I would not get another installment of Claire and Dan's exploits for a while, I savored Shiveree, drawing it out over several nights. Dunbar's trademark prose is still here, her characters as quirky and  delectable as ever and Dan and Claire are still steaming up the pages in  between hunting for clues in the latest murder investigation.<br />What kept  me from awarding Shiveree 5 stars is the ending. Not that the reader isn't  left guessing until the very end, not that Ms. Dunbar hasn't thrown in a  slew of red herrings. The book just ---- ends!  It's almost as if there is  a chapter missing. I was quite let down, expecting a neat wrap-up, some  cozying around the Christmas tree with Claire and Dan, maybe getting to  find out what was really in the gaily wrapped packages. Maybe learning  something more about Charlotte and Foley. But, nothing!  I'm not happy.  <br />Ms. Dunbar, you really need to do something to correct this. We need  another Eclaire mystery ASAP. Please don't leave us Claiborne groupies  behind.	2000-05-25
US	52558032	RVR09VCYSRZLL	1890768081	150139122	A BAD HAIR DAY/AN ECLAIRE MYSTERY	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not as good as her previous ones	I really do like the Eclaire mystery series. And I'm looking forward to delving into the last, Shiveree and hoping it grabs me like the first two books. <br />Bad Hair Day...was just too much. Too long, too much going on,  too many characters to keep track of, much more 'dark' than previously. Ms.  Dunbar's writing is still superb. I just wish Bad Hair Day had been a touch  more on the light side. <br />Despite the overabundance of action and  characters, the book is still good, and I'm very glad I read it.	2000-05-21
US	52558032	R1ZX97NNRBKT4B	0373440898	944952575	The Cinderella Solution / Say Yes (Harlequin Duets, No 23)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Say Yes - What a romantic comedy should be	Rarely do I enjoy a reading a book more so than with Say Yes. The opening scene--the opening page!--hooked me in. The two leads, Sara and Gavin, are interesting, believable characters - with a twist: Gavin is the one who  wants to settle down, get married and Sara is the reluctant one. What  follows is an amusing--and sexy--story of one man's attempt to 'get' his  woman.<br />Ms. Foster has blended the right amount of humor and sensuality  in this story. And the addition of several members of the animal kingdom  give the story an added element that many readers will enjoy.<br />I think the  author has found her true calling in romantic comedy. I can only hope her  publisher feels the same. Say Yes is the perfect book for a lazy summer  weekend, so Say Yes and put this book on your To Be Bought list.	2000-05-18
US	52558032	R2IW3ET2SQZZ4H	0312972776	246519865	Larger Than Death (Josephine Fuller Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Entertaining and Fun	Larger Than Death is an entertaining way to spend a couple night's reading. The femme sleuth, Jo Fuller, is a full-figured woman whose best friend, also full-figured,has just been murdered. Jo vows to find the  killer, but along the way several other victims fall prey. They don't fit  the profile of previous victims, which now throws Jo for a loop.<br />A cast  of lively secondary characters adds color to the storyline. The one thing  that keeps me from a 5-star review is the fact that about 1/2 way through  the book, I'd pretty much figured out the culprit. That aside, I've ordered  Ms. Murray's second book and am looking forward to reading it.	2000-05-16
US	52558032	R3F55OTRMFKSAS	1890768065	889847642	Redneck Riviera: An Eclaire Mystery (The Eclaire Mystery Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sophie Dunbar - talented wordsmith	In this, the 2nd of the Eclaire mysteries, Sophie Dunbar continues to leave me in awe of her way with words. Aside from the enjoyable tale of mystery and steamy romance between Claire and her hunky hubby, Dan, Ms.  Dunbar's wordsmithing ability leaves me applauding her efforts. Rarely do I  read such well-crafted scenes of high indignity and outrage without  resorting to profanity. <br />The story itself is pure camp, whacky,  irreverant, sexy and spicy (without being overly graphic). While not set in  Claire's hometown of New Orleans, the story nevertheless is entertaining  with just the right mix of secondary characters to add flavor but not  overwhlem the mystery.	2000-05-14
US	52558032	R2ACFCRYBXJUU8	1890768103	595723068	Behind Eclaire's Doors: An Eclaire Mystery (Eclaire Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A whacky, sexy delightful mystery	I'd seen this book mentioned on a mail list I belong to and being a fan of Diane Mott Davidson and G.A. McKevett, I thought this book might appeal to me. It did and in a big way.<br />Ms. Dunbar's characters are believable and  totally entertaining. Her dialogue is smart and sassy without being  demeaning or crude. In one part, Claire delivers a scathing retort that had  me mentally applauding her ability to reduce her victim to the size of an  anthill all with the use of brilliant profanityless dialogue.<br />I thought I  had the mystery figured out up until the end when the author threw a curve  and the spicy, steamy on-again/off-again romance between her and her  erstwhile hubby, Dan, is quite humorous. <br />Although this is the first book  I've read by this author, I enjoyed it so much I am now reading the next in  the series, Redneck Riviera, and plan to work my way through to her latest  release, Shiveree.<br />I heartily recommend this book.<br />I'm definitley  cheering for Dan	2000-05-12
US	52558032	R8U0GLB2K58IE	0821766066	544085475	Seducing Alicia (Zebra Bouquet Romances)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tracy Cozzens pens a good story	This was the first time I'd read one of Ms. Cozzens' books and I enjoyed her ability to make the two main characters come alive. The plot of the story-industrial spying/scientist developing radical life-saving  process-was one I'd not run across before. It was evident from the facts  that the author had done a lot of research. What made it enjoyable is that  those facts were given to us in intersting conversation and narrative. The  ending is a true nailbiter that kept me reading long after it was time to  turn in for the night. I couldn't stand not knowing how it all turned out.<br />I was pleasantly surprised to see that the cover accurately depicted the  main couple and the decorations on the deck of the sailboat. If there was  one &quot;show stopper&quot;, it was the fact that Alica, described on the  back as a top scientist (biologist) dedicated to saving lives, falls into  bed with Jason repeatedly without the use of protection. However, this one  niggle won't prevent me from picking up Ms. Cozzen's next release.	2000-05-08
US	52558032	R3E8DZJ3DSU79Y	0515127868	210393193	To Marry an Irish Rogue (Irish Eyes)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable way to spend an evening	This was the first book I'd read by Lisa Hendrix, and to be truthful, what  caught my eye was the beautiful cover. By the time I finished, I felt I'd  definitely gotten my money's worth.<br />Ms. Hendrix paints a wonderful word  portrait of the Irish village life as I remembered it from my visit to  Ireland. She has also created a hero and heroine with human failings, but  who possess the ability to know when they are wrong and apologize. I  enjoyed the interaction between Brian Hanrahan and Tara O'Connell and while  the storyline involving the women of Kilbooly was entertaining, I would  have liked to have seen more focus on the storyline between Tara and Brian,  involving Brian's business ventures and Tara's perceptions and prejudices  about them and Brian. <br />If you are looking for a way to spend an evening  or two absorbing the flavor of Ireland and getting a love story in the  process, then this book is for you.	2000-05-06
US	52558032	R37WFXNAZI5OAS	0440235103	932202469	When a Man Loves a Woman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This one will stay with you	Long after you finish the last page, this book will stay with you. If you like your books light, with lots of dialogue, this one may not be for you. But if you enjoy a book that really delves into people's minds and into the 'why we do what we do' then you will enjoy this book.<br />I found it  slow-going at times, with lots of introspection. But Ms. Adams' writing  kept me interested and made me *want* to know how things would all turn out  for Elliot and Brody, both sympathetic characters in a very believable  situation. The backdrop of a big city hospital and Ms. Adams' description  of it and the roles both Brody and Elliott played enhanced the story and  made it real. <br />This is the first time I've read an Alina Adams novel, but  it certainly won't be the last.	2000-04-30
US	52558032	RQT9G9SIXZD57	0061030201	844953416	Disguised Blessing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Didn't want it to end....	Ever dread finishing a book because you just know the next one you start won't come anywhere near to being as good? This was how I felt when I read the last page of Disguised Blessing. Before this, I'd read and enjoyed The Beach House, but Ms. Bockoven's latest surpasses that. <br />I read the book  in one sitting, not wanting to have to put it aside for the night to find  out how it ended. The dialogue is convincing and the characters totally  sympathetic and in one spot I was in tears. Ms. Bockoven does an admriable  job of showing that us while life may be horribly  unfair, with love and  hope the score can be evened.<br />I urge anyone who wants an uplifting book  to read to put this one your To Buy list. As for me, I'm off to hunt up the  author's backlist.	2000-04-30
US	52558032	R13J8X61SHUZ8K	1575665247	95177255	Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Hannah Swensen is First Rate!	When I read the review of this book in Publisher's Weekly, I had a strong suspicion I was going to like it. I was wrong. I loved it! In the tradition of Diane Mott Davidson, Joanne Fluke gives us a down-to-earth, girl-next-door heroine, who bakes wicked good cookies, came home to help  take care of her [matchmaking] mother and is owned by a huge stray cat  named Moishe. Oh yes, and she's tracking down a killer. <br />In this 'cozy'  mystery, Ms. Fluke kept me guessing until the last chapter or so. Usually I  have it figured out before then. I chuckled over Hannah's reasons for why  Minnesotans did not rush out to buy Currier and Ives winter scenes and her  endeavors to take her sister's mind off their discovery of a victim by  plying her with inexpensive wine. I'm looking forward to the next in this  series, as it looks as if Hannah may have herself a couple of fellows  angling for her favor.<br />If you're looking for a pleasant way to spend an  evening or two, you can't do much better than Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder.  Oh, and the recipes look great, too!	2000-04-26
US	52558032	R24A757337FI0O	0821764721	76915389	Utterly Charming	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Utterly Charming is just that	Not often does one come upon a book that has an intriguing plot, likable characters and a cast of secondary character who are not only zany but actually interesting. <br />Kristine Grayson has given the reader a modern new  spin on some old myths and fairy tales with a struggling young lawyer  suddenly finding for herself a client who not only vastly rich, but who  also happens to be a 1000-year old wizard hellbent on 'rescuing' his fated  soulmate from the clutches of the evil wizard-ess. <br />The writing is  fast-paced with loads of snappy dialogue, my favorite. Ms. Grayson has me  hooked and I definitely look forward to Thoroughly Kissed.	2000-04-09
US	52558032	R3TG35OQK2QI05	0739204912	971569366	Caravan Days	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Joyce's account is dead on	As another of the Raytheon nomads, I read with interest, Joyce's accounts of her (and her family's) overseas adventures. Although I and my family were in Greece and Jordan, Joyce had me laughing, rolling my eyes and  nodding, &quot;Oh, yeah. I remember doing that.&quot;<br />If anyone wants to  know what it's *really* like to take you family of little ones and live  overseas (both my children were born abroad) you can't do better than  Caravan Days for a true sense of adventure.<br />Thanks, Joyce!	2000-04-08
US	52558032	RBDADN10QJ5HZ	0373440650	955015143	50 Ways To Lure Your Lover  (Real Men)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Julie Kistler has a winner	I admit I bought the book for the title--and the cover didn't hurt, either--but the story between the pages had me laughing and gave me two very enjoyable nights of reading. The story of a Plain Jane's makeover and the recording of such by man-of-the-world photographer could have been  contrived, but wasn't. I could actually believe the situations and the  dialogue. <br />If you're looking for a couple evenings worth of light  entertainment, you would do well to try this book. I know I will be looking  for more from Julie.	2000-04-06
US	52558032	RPGUX2F59IKAW	1575665700	656376580	The Lover	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Beyond the Erotic---	Once in a blue moon, there will come a book whose tormented, tortured hero reaches out and wrings my heart; the ability to haunt me long after the covers had been shut and the books on my  keeper shelf and Michael des Anges (The Lover) is no exception. He pretty  much hung my heart out to dry and haunted my thoughts. By the time I'd  gotten half-way through the book, I was ready to go out and slay dragons  for Michael, *that* was how angry I was over what had happened in his past  to bring him to this point in his life.  <br />Yes, The Lover is erotic, very  much so. But it also has a soul, because underneath the eroticism is the  story of a man whose struggle to regain some semblance of normalcy in the  face of all the inhuman crimes that have been perpetrated against him was  enough to rip the emotion from me. At times, I physically hurt for him.  <br />So, thank you Ms. Schone, for doing the erotic and the angst so well,  and I hope that in the future we can look forward to Gabriel's story, also.	2000-04-02
US	52558032	R2CE6G3AGL2MK5	0440236185	93651929	Drive Me Wild	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fun and Entertaining	I originally bought the book because I was attracted to the cover and the back cover blurb sounded interesting. I read it in two evenings and found it a fun book. Easy to read. I liked Laura as a character more than Brent;  I felt the author developed her heroine much more than the hero; put her  through more 'growth' than Brent. <br />This is a very good debut book, and I  am looking forward to Ms. Ortolon's next release.	2000-03-25
US	52558032	R1P2WR56BSOXXZ	0505523116	429550659	The Bewitched Viking (Wink & A Kiss, 1)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A pleasant way to spend an evening	If you are willing to suspend your disbelief, you'll have a fun and pleasant way to spend a few nights reading. The characters are quirky, to say the least, and the story full of humorous lines. Likewise, the plot is  a bit far-fetched in spots, but overall, I enjoyed it. <br />If you like heavy  drama, and you just can't tolerate your Viking heros thinking, &quot;What's  wrong with this picture,&quot; this book is not for you. But if you can put  aside your notions of what you *think* the Vikings were like, and let Ms.  Hill entertain you, then you'll enjoy it.	2000-03-25
US	52558032	RJ6A44T345HEY	0505523612	82160856	Midnight Kisses (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great book to break the winter doldrums	I was stressed and coming down with some evil 'bug' and wanted a book to 'make me feel better.' I could not have chosen a better title. The previous reviewer gave an accurate overview, so I won't repeat. All I can say is  this is the first Kimberly Raye book I've ever read, but it's definitely  not the last. A light enjoyable read that will leave you chuckling and  feeling a whole lot better by the time you get to the last page.	2000-03-12
US	52558032	R23KJIMPWS0PS8	0553107232	49203696	Tough Cookie	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Davidson cooks up another blue-ribbon deight	After waiting a whole year for this new entry on Davidson's menu, I found myself reading straight though and staying up until I finished Tough Cookie. I found myself relating to Goldy's funk over her teen son's 'growing pains' (Been there. Done that. survived!) and I found myself with  heart in throat while reading the descriptions of maneuvering mountain  passes in a blizzard. <br />Davidson throws enough curve balls throughout the  story to have kept me guessing about the identity of the culprit until the  end. <br />If there was one thing I would have liked more it's Tom Schultz.  Lovable character, great hubby. And my only big disappointment is having to  wait another year until the next entry is released.	2000-03-05
US	52558032	RWKEOYVDXV81Q	0967224535	663691663	Gatherin' Emily: Poems of the Heart	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Gift for Valentine's Day	As a student of Victorian literature, I read and came to love the poetry of Robert Browning, Tennyson and Rossetti, so I was pleased to find poetry in the same vein being written today. Although I enjoyed reading the entire collection, my favorites are &quot;Wishes&quot; and &quot;At First  Sight.&quot; In both, the poet is able to paint a deep sense of eternal  commitment from one person to another. <br />The poems are wonderfully  romantic and evocative, and would make a great gift this upcoming  Valentine's Day--or anytime you wish to communicate your love and devotion.	2000-01-09
US	52558032	R389QJJI3ONLCC	0821762885	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Zebra Splendor Historical Romance)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A  Can't-Put-It-Down  Book	This book had me forcing myself to stay awake so I could read 'just one more page,' and then just one more after that. It's been a long time since a book kept me up well after I should have been in bed, making me lament having to go to work the next morning. <br />The Lady's Tutor is one icy-hot  read. Set in Victorian England, Robin Schone aptly conveys the cold,  starched atmosphere of the era, while tugging at our heart strings when we  read of Elizabeth's loveless marriage and the darker, seamier side of life  in England at this time. <br />This is not a book for the gentle reader, but  on the other hand, the love scenes, while erotic, are done tastefully and  beautifully. I truly did not want this book to end. Kudos to Ms. Schone. It  will be hard to top The Lady's Tutor, but I've no doubt she's up to the  challenge and I look forward to her next book.	1999-12-14
US	52558032	R10UNP6A3S16AV	0967071208	500876971	Time Will Tell	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A story that transcends color	Yes. I know there are errors and typos. No. I will never be a 'sistah' by any stretch of the imagination no matter how long I live. BUT--- I became so engrossed in the characters and their lives, the color boundaries  disappeared and I found myself reading at night until my eyes couldn't stay  open any longer. I just *had* to know what was going to happen. I did NOT  want this book to end, and it's been a LONG time since I've said that about  any book. <br />Ms. McDonald has written a book that kept me interested and  engrossed. A book I could not stand to put down at night. She has succeeded  where other highly touted authors did not, at least with me. I believe  there is a sequel planned for Time Will Tell, and I want one fresh off the  press!	1999-11-26
US	52558032	R361TBWCTSS54K	1890357057	329781410	Complete Publishing Resource Manual (Complete Publishing Manuals)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Internet resource list  worth the price of the book	Using Linda's book allows me to cut down on the time I use searching the Internet and puts me right where I need to be. The entire 3rd chapter-a resource database(most of which have Internet links)-is alone worth the  price of the book. <br />~~Barbara O'Neill, author of Second Chance  (Periwinkle Press)	1999-11-16
US	52558032	RD4GTU2FKQXWX	1582000859	172326612	Fat Chance [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Don't bother with this one	Although a story that could have been a great one, Fat Chance left me struggling to get through to the end. The characters were not believable (I wanted to reach out and slap them a couple of times) and the dialogue  impossible. I thought that if I read the tag he/she winced one more time,  I'd scream. If it had been a paperback it would have been a wallbanger.	1999-10-22
US	52558032	R26P6CF2PRME4V	189365236X	384139419	Red Wine For Breakfast	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Not worth the trouble	After 20 or so pages, I was so turned off by these characters and the language, I never finished. A waste of time and a waste of money.	1999-10-22
