US	52558389	RY56QH6GD32CJ	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Help, I've Started and I Can't Stop...	WOW!! It took three pages to get hooked on this book. Then 106 chapters to get unhooked. Every page is exciting. You've GOT to read this book, right now!!<br />Good old Robert Langdon is at it again. He is up to here in adventure and mystery, and bad guys, and beautiful women, guns, and secrets. Besides, he gets around a lot, even without trying. He's got new friends, Sofia, Teabing, Silas, etc. No hints on the story in this review, just excitement about how good and entertaining this read is. I couldn't stop. I carried it around with me, 5 minutes here, 4 hours there, 30 minutes here. There was no escaping until I finished. Even then, I thought about the book for weeks.<br />As in \\"Angles and Demons\\", the research is complete and total. Exotic places and well known places. If you've traveled, you know these sites. It's like being there. And the story line, well, never does it go where you expect, think or guess. And fast paced, sound moves slower.<br />Have no fear about reading this book, you'll enjoy it, or maybe you should be afraid, because if you have something else to do you may be in a quandry. I'm telling you, it's impossible to put this book down.<br />Hat's off to you again Mr. Brown!!!	2003-04-12
US	52558389	R2AN6ZLWC5732I	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Take the Chance, If You Dare	\\"HOLY COW\\" a famous person said once, but about something totally different. That same phrase applies here. What a termendous read. Once you're hooked, it's impossible to escape this book.<br />Although not the \\"Da Vinci Code\\" (thus the 4 stars), the exploits of Robert Langdon in his tweed coat will captivate and turn you in knots. Mr. Brown has an amazing imagination and ability to twist and turn a story to places where the reader would never expect. Bad guys turn to good, and good to bad, innocents dying all over, surprise after surprise. And best of all, the hero gets the, oops, can't say that.<br />Mr. Brown wins for research. His knowledge of locations and ancient legends, myths and secret sects is complete.  My hat is off to the depth of his understanding of the Catholic Church.<br />Robert Langdon is a hero ala Indiana Jones, Superman, and Einstein combined. His villans are terrifying and evil, and seem invincible, and his ethics are exceptional. Fortunately for us, the right thing is always done in the end.<br />So, without telling any of the plot or the characters (you'll have to read about that) this is an excellent weekend read, if it takes you that long. You'll hang at the end of every chapter, wanting more. Don't wait any longer, get this book and read-it-up fast. You'll have no other choice. When you're done, and out of breathe, then go for \\"Da Vinci Code\\".  You'll be very glad you did.<br />Thanks for the great entertainment Mr. Brown!!!!!	2003-04-12
US	52558389	R1XKRXMJM17NE3	0802713750	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Facts Make This the Standard to Wich Others Compare	It's the facts that make this one of the better history books available about this topic. Ms Preston gives the reader pretty much all the facts from both sides of the issue, while leaving out her opinion (until the very end). As you read, you can make your own decisions about the facts presented and the decisions made by the involved parties.<br />Another good point about this book is the look at the personalities of the people who were touched by this tragedy. From German high command, to American president, to lowly deckhand, the reader gets close to all the people mentioned in the book. One gets to feel bad for many of the passengers and the plight they experienced. Ms Preston also brings home the facts about the many children who were victims on the Lusitania. It seems that other historians forget about the world's youth in reporting and writing, but not here.<br />I enjoyed Ms Preston's style and use of words that made the reading easy and enjoyable. She tells a very good story, without getting longwinded or overdone. The time went by very fast while reading this book, and I'm sorry that it had to end.<br />Thank you Ms Preston. I look forward to your next opus.	2002-11-15
US	52558389	RILD97KJH76OM	1557509700	399764967	Rigging Period Ship Models: A Step-by-Step Guide to the Intracacies of Square-Rig	Books	4	15	15	N	N	If You're a Model Ship Builder, Here's Another Must Have	What I REALLY liked about this book, to get right to it, is that I understood every direction immediately. Now, you need to know that there are hardly any words in this book!!! That's right, it's basically just a picture book of one specific line or line set. The drawings show you where the line runs, where it's tied off, how it's tied off, and that's all!! It's great! No complicated wordy instructions to translate, just the lines, clear and easy.<br />The ship that Mr. Petersson uses for his example is the HMS Melampus, an English frigate (36 guns, 18 pounder). By using his drawings, you'll get to know the finer points for that period, but take care here. If you are building a \\"Mayflower\\" (as I am now) or a \\"Victory\\", \\"Wasa\\", or \\"San Felipe\\" you'll need to make a few adjustments in your building from the drawings. Just don't copy the picture, match the lines purpose to your particular vessel, if that vessel even had that line.<br />Great reference, and you should have one. Thanks Mr. Petersson, who by the way lives in Sweden!!	2002-08-15
US	52558389	RV57GNCCPZBRH	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	17	31	N	N	The Book Promotional Materials are Right!!!!!	It says on the back cover \\"you'll never think of history the same way\\". A good Catholic AMEM to that one!!!!<br />I told myself that this was not going to be a very interesting book, but my wife pitched it to me and I gave it a try. I'm stunned!! I was born and raised as a Catholic, and will not comment on religion or politics in this review, just the book. I am amazed that there is a work or this quality out there in the History world, and that EVERYONE hasn't read it!! Believe me, if you are in any way a fan of history, you best read this book soon. You will be absolutely stunned.<br />First of all, I admire any writer who makes me feel that they have done their research. Here is the new standard. Mr. Cornwell has raised the bar so high it sits above St. Peter's dome in Rome. I can imagine him digging in the archives of the Vatican, what must be an unlimited storehouse of materials, to find his information. It must have been a huge undertaking.<br />Next, Mr. Cornwell somehow assembles all this research into a coherent story using personal recollections, documented facts, and even some photos to present the story that pretty much covers a century-and-a-half.  And let me tell you, it's a page turner. His detail is exceptional, his organizing of information is top notch, and he just plain tells a great story.<br />No hints here, but there are items in this book that will make any Catholic or other denizen of the planet furious. I found myself talking out loud to this book, \\"How can that be?\\" or \\"You can't be serious\\". I was so upset sometimes, I couldn't form a sentence to tell co-workers what the trigger was.<br />One last credit. Mr. Cornwell limits his personal critique to just a few comments, that I feel are very justified considering what I was reading. You can make your own decisions as to how you feel, and that I appreciate. Honestly, this is an unsettling book for us Catholics, and an astounding book for all others.<br />Thank you Mr. Cornwell. I'll never see history the same again.	2002-08-14
US	52558389	R2CFAG80FHHEP7	0670899240	287617479	Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Must Read For All With Too Much To Do	This is a vital book to read if you have many projects or things to do. For that matter, it's a great read even if you just want to get yourself organized. It works too!<br />Mr. Allen's is idea to create a system in your life that allows you to organize and do the work that needs to be done, be it at the office or in your personal life. He has many great ideas, and knows human nature well enough to use it as an aid to his process. You'll find that you agree with many of his ideas (like having your own work place and \\"stuff\\"). Once the system is in place and working, you can relax in knowing that everything is accounted for, and under your control. Start relaxing, and enjoy your new found efficiency.<br />If you are seeking a means of getting more organized, this is it without question. It does work, and will work for you. Thank you VERY MUCH Mr. Allen.	2002-07-20
US	52558389	R1X0KLBNYD4NB7	0425098478	986630902	The One Minute Manager	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some Simple Food for Thought	Reward or punishment! Is this politically correct now-a-days. You bet not, but the idea is worth looking at and thinking about.<br />There are some interesting ideas contained in the very short read. It will provide the beginning manager with a good base to develop their own style, but shouldn't be copied outright. The words &quot;reward&quot; and &quot;punishment&quot; should be re-worked so as not to offend those PC fanatics who cannot deal with older thinking. Also, comparing the trreatment of personnel to that of training a dog, well, it doesn't play well anywhere.<br />I say give this book a read. Find some concepts that you can think about, and see if they can be applied to your present situation. If you spend more than 2 hours reading it, I'd be surprised. Use it as a brainstorming tool, not a How To book.	2002-07-20
US	52558389	R3VIVHH25W6N8C	1572330341	336667006	A Yankee at Arms: The Diary of Lieutenant Augustus D. Ayling, 29th Massachusetts Volunteers (Voices of the Civil War)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	First Hand Account of 19th Century Soldier Life	Although not compelling reading (thus 4 stars), this is a great book for those students of the Civil War and daily soldier life. If you are a re-enactor, this should be on or near the top of your list of required reading.<br />Much of the books materials are taken from diary entries, and provide a very detailed insight into the everyday life of a soldier in the Army of the Potomac. The day-to-day routine is so well reflected that the writing style illustrates it to a tee. I couldn't help but feel for these brave men.<br />Although the major actions that the 29th Massachusetts didn't include our main character, the unit's history is laid out very nicely in the book. An interesting aspect is that of the wounded soldier trying to heal in pre-advanced medical situations. It is staggering still to imagine what these men had to deal with once injured.<br />Read it when you can. A book well done.	2002-07-20
US	52558389	R18VVNSF70J2IC	1580621171	279047716	The 250 Job Interview Questions You'll Most Likely Be Asked	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good Advice for Those Who Need It	If you are not comfortable with the interview process, all the information that you can collect in advance will be a great help to you. Here is a good place to start.<br />These questions, or some form there of, will appear in an interview. The wise reader will take each one a prepare an answer just in case. This process of preparation will build confidence and provide insight into the entire process.<br />The book is not a great literary work, but it gets the point across. It will provide knowledge into the terrifying world of the interview, and should help build one's skills for when the time comes.	2002-07-20
US	52558389	RQJNKHNX8Z8XQ	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Triple Treat	Triple your pleasure, triple your fun.<br />What in the world?? Well, let me tell you, if you are a history fan, a tourist, or an architect you'll throughly enjoy this read. How about if you like gadgets? Then make it a quad of pleasure.<br />Mr. King tells the story of the building of the dome on Florence's great cathedral, but not just the construction. He dives into the political background, the artistic competition, the ins and outs of necessity being the mother of invention. We hear about the lack of pay, control of workers wine drinking, construction of never thought machines to do work unheard of or unseen on the planet. We also get a fair amount of Florentine history, as well as Tuscan history. But the strength appears in the engineering and architecture discussions.<br />Not being familiar with this science, I found myself fascinated by the descriptions and discussions of the hows and whys of building in the 13th and 14th Centuries. You'll never get lost or in-over-your-head. His writing is clear and articulate, and will make you smile and laugh more than once.<br />I'll give no plot hints, but you'll enjoy the read. I did, and my wife did too. An how we remembered our vacation there... Thanks Mr. King.	2002-06-28
US	52558389	R219SN9JGVTJ12	0192835947	286027010	The Expedition of Humphry Clinker (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Fine Trip to 18th Century Life	A high recommendation for this book lead me to read it. What an enjoyable trip into the past.<br />The author writes letters as more than half-a-dozen characters, and they are a very interesting batch of folks. Mr. Bramble and his family, Dr. Lewis, Tabitha, and of course, Winifred Jenkins, who can murder the language beyond imigination travel through England and Scotland and tell of their experiences on the trip. Oh yea, let's not forget Chowder. They are a lively batch, with various health and social situations that make for interesting correspondance. The title character, Humphey Clinker joins the party mid-trip, and helps make matters very interesting, starting in as a man-servant. It's best not to discuss the contents of the letters. The discovery while reading is very enjoyable!<br />Don't expect a very fast read, as the old style English (and Mrs. Jenkins verbal assaults) makes for a somewhat slow pace, and make sure to have a dictionary handy. Some words, even though familiar to the reader, are best looked up for the 2nd or 3rd definition of meaning (such as \\"ejaculation\\").<br />It's very easy to see why early Americans enjoyed this book. A rememberance of life in Old England, it pokes fun at many personalities that they are sure to have encountered. Last suggestion, do as David McCullough did, and read it twice. The second time is much more entertaining.	2002-04-22
US	52558389	R3ONTJ4E3N7PAS	080504681X	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Master Does It Again!!	This is the third book of Mr. Ketchum's that I've read, and I'm glad to have read it. Maybe not leaps and bounds ahead of the other two, Decisive Day and Winter Soldiers, but it's a bit better.<br />The writing style of this volume is much more \\"reader friendly\\". He teases, entertains, baits, and just conveys easily understandable information. He leaves the reader wanting more, then satifies that need in the next few pages. His comments about what he is writing about are very entertaining. One gets the feeling that he's there, providing play-by-play reporting, but not in an obvious fashion. His use of letters, diaries, and other written material provide a fresh and personal feel to the story.<br />No need to relate the story here. Read the book if you don't know what it's about, you'll enjoy it. My lasting impression: No one can write about the British pomp and Martial Art like Richard Ketchum can. I swear, he must be a Brit himself, and from that Century!! He does it in Decisive Day, and now in Saratoga. I enjoy this SO MUCH, I can't describe it. It is the high point of each of his books. I suggest that you read all three books about the Revolution, and enjoy the time. Thanks very much Mr. Ketchum!!!	2002-04-22
US	52558389	RPQVB4Q4EN1LD	0140298150	546056497	Nuremberg (movie tie-in)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	History Belongs to the Victors!	Man kind presented itself with a problem by addressing the topic of this book, how to bring to justice Nazi war crimminals after the war was over. Witch hunt or justice, what was to be the course? The course of human events in the last part of the 20th Century were built in Nuremburg, and we all saw what became of it.<br />Mr. Persico tells his tale with a depth of research that should be commended. I cannot imagine all that awaited him in preparing this book. I feel that he presents all the sides fairly and without bias. He deals well with the Russians, the Brits, and the Germans, giving their sides, feelings and legal points of view. One can't help but wonder if the Germans were right (as well as George Patton) that the Russians were the ultimate enemy?? I particulary enjoyed the way that Mr. Persico told the story of Dr. Gilbert and his diaries, a read that is near the top of my \\"read next\\" list. He also re-opens the door about Henry Ford (see the book by Neil Baldwin).<br />The read is good, but not compeling as \\"Black Hawk Down\\" or \\"John Adams\\", thus the 4 star rating, but it's still very good. I'd recommend it in a heart beat. Then move to Gilbert's \\"Nuremburg Diaries\\" and/or the Baldwin book. It will make you wonder what REALLY went one earlier the last century.	2002-04-06
US	52558389	RWWA7MYFM5F6Z	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	2	N	N	By Far, The BEST Book I have Ever Read	The title of my review tells you exactly how I feel about this book. No need for a long review about the writing style or content. It is just the best book I have ever read. Well, the Bible may make a close race....<br />Anyway, this book has the most engaging story I've encountered. At first, I wondered \\"what's so interesting about John Adams?\\" Just a few weeks short of a year on the NY Times best seller list must mean something. So I broke down and read it. Here's what I think now:<br />1) How can any two people sacrifice and suffer so much for their country?? 2) The way that Mr. McCullough tells me about John and Abigale, they have become my friends. I enjoyed visiting with them, sharing their adventures, trials, pain and happiness. They are so real as people, that I felt like they came to my house to visit and tell their stories, having tea, sitting by the fireplace. 3) I have never experienced a historical biography that I couldn't put down, that kept me wide awake during night time reading, and that has now made me re-evaluate all that I know about Politics and the Founding Fathers' use of it as a weapon.<br />I am stunned by the greatness of this book!!!<br />Read it, don't be the least bit reluctant, just read it. You'll love it. I became so attached to John and Abigale that I wept at their passsings. I have NEVER cried from reading a book.<br />Thank you so VERY, VERY much Mr. McCullough. (What's Next???)	2002-04-06
US	52558389	R2U76EJ821V4VX	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intense and Relentless	What a story!! I had no idea what awaited me before I read this book.  But now, I have to read it again, slower this time, and see if what I read is really there.<br />I can't remember being so quickly propelled through a book as I was by this one. The story telling is remarkable (hats off to you Mark Bowden), and the content of the story is even more remarkable. How can everything that possibly can go wrong go wrong, and yet how can the men involved be so emotionally (&amp; pysically) strong enough to deal with it all. Amazing is all that can be said.<br />Mr. Bowden lets lose with some direct writing. I had my doubts before hand that this would be a newspaper colume, but no way. I got the feeling that he was there. The style lead me to believe that there is no question in his facts, and that he is the authority on the subject, simple as that. His story telling is cold, raw, hard, and in your face. You are there, with the sounds, smells, sights and feelings. I couldn't stop reading once I started.<br />I haven't seen the movie, kinda of don't want to, but if Hollywood tells this story the way the book does, the look out. The military and political powers-that-be will go bonkers.<br />Good for you Mark Bowden. Well done. I look forward to more and more and more...	2002-04-06
US	52558389	RLJIYKED87VJF	0345425480	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Some of the Best First Person Writing	Often in historical fiction, the writing style leaves the reader believing that the author wasn't there, and that the story isn't very interesting. Not so here. Mr. Shaara has mastered the art and is worthy of following in his father's footsteps.<br />This book deals with the post Gettysburg peroid of the Civil War, and continues into the 20th Century. Having read the trilogy completely, I was sad to see my Civil War friends fade away. But their stories live on, and wonderfully told by Mr. Shaara.<br />The book doesn't dwell much on fighting, but goes into great depth discussing the people in important roles, Grant, Lee, Chamberlain, etc. After reading all the books, these figures become close to the reader, and their trials, successes and failures have a great effect on the reader. It was a very pleasent experience getting close to these men whom I have studied for years, but in a different fashion.<br />The conversations are real enough, and even the legends are present in common dialog. I actually came to feel that Mr. Shaara might have actually been there. Also, his insight into the personalities of the major players I feel is right on.<br />A very good read, although not a 5 star, but good none the less. If you can, take all three members of the trilogy in sequence. The results will be very rewarding. If not, this is still a book well worth the time to read it. Thanks Mr. Shaara.	2002-02-20
US	52558389	RDXDW7ABKY9LW	0385334621	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	4	4	7	N	N	No Better Title Could Ever be Given...	to the men and women of this time period. We all hear the stories growing up, but never the details, and the depth of what these people did for us. How can we ever repay them, that's the only question.<br />Mr. Brokaw's book is a very good read, not outstanding, but very good. I enjoyed the stories, and the learning about what these people of the Greatest Generation gave of themselves for our way of life. Sadly, I feel very un-patriotic by being a bit critical of this book, but feel the need to relate a few items.<br />First, although all the stories are moving, inspiring and lead me to get really upset, I can't help but notice the repeatitive nature of the story telling. About half way through the book, it all started to sound the same, even though it was different. Just an observation.<br />Secondly, I totally disagree with Mr. Browkaw's defense of the phrase &quot;Medal of Honor winners&quot;. He defends his position, nicely, but there is no way that this is correct. Having had the great fortune to have worked with and hosted Medal of Honor receipients at patriotic functions, I can guarantee that Mr. Brokaw is wrong in his titling. The Medal of Honor is not a &quot;prize&quot; won during some game or contest, it is the highest honor that can be bestowed upon a soldier, who fears not for his life, but cares only of those he hopes to protect and aid. Enough of the soap box.<br />I recommend that you read this book, it's very moving and will help build your partiotisim, of which none of us can get enough of right now. Thanks Tom.	2002-02-12
US	52558389	R1SY950IX0NC2M	0761535357	654380265	The Servant Leader: How to Build a Creative Team, Develop Great Morale, and Improve Bottom-Line Performance	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wouldn't The World Be a Better Place.....	..if all Managers could subscribe to this method. Mr. Autry presents his position on Servent Leadership, and makes all who read it examine themselves. It was great fun imagining a work place like the one Mr. Autry describes.<br />First of all, the writing style is pleasent and engaging. Very inviting and not intimidating. It's like having a quite conversation with a peaceful man of letters. The book goes fast, so it's maybe three nights of reading time. The lessons contained are very penetrating. Self examination will be a good result of this book's reading.<br />I particularly appreciated the section at the end of the book where 24 photos of a future company are examined. It gives hope to all of us, but sadly, I feel it's just too good to be true.<br />Non the less, please read this book for your business soul, and maybe your business approach. It can help if we try to put it in place. Thanks Mr. Autry for the peace and humanity.	2002-01-21
US	52558389	R1E9ND4A45X1B4	1566913578	796115253	Rick Steves' Paris 2002	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Travel Safe and Well INformed with This Gem	The latest version of Rick's Paris travel guide is well worth the money. It's up to date (as in Euro amounts) and very user friendly, as all the other Rick Steve guides. Even the humor is still present.<br />Rick's handling of museum tours has always been useful to us on our trips. His maps are clear and easy to understand, and the detailed discussion of the works is always very interesting. This issue is no exception. It may even seem a bit museum heavy, but very useful when entering. It's a must if you're headed to any museum in Paris. You'll be gald you have it along.<br />The sections addressing the &quot;walks&quot; is excellent! Once again, great maps, good discussion of sights, and very interesting places. Take the book along and try one. You'll enjoy it!.<br />Sadly, I don't feel that 5 stars are deserved. The discussion concerning the trip from De Gaulle airport to downtown Paris is rather short and, I feel anyway, doesn't give the reader a real feel for the difficulties that will be encountered. This has always been a sore spot for us when going to Paris. Otherwise, there is plenty of information for the Paris traveler.<br />So if you're going to Paris, then by all means get this guide, and head out into the City of Light. You will not be disappointed, and entertained all the while. Thanks once again Steve for making another successful trip!	2002-01-20
US	52558389	RL0M3HHA4KA9V	0735200912	149602614	Patton on Leadership: Strategic Lessons for Corporate Warfare	Books	5	4	6	N	N	L'audace, L'audace, Toujour L'audace	Frederick the Great may have said it, but George &quot;Blood 'n Guts&quot; Patton lived it. What a remarkable man, and what a remarkable presentation about that man, his life and his leadership skills. One should read this book just for the hell-of-it if not for any other reason. What a great first read for anyone wishing to know more about the General.<br />First of all, this book reads well and fast, and it's hard to put down. Mr. Axelrod tells a great story, conveys the essence of Patton's Generalship and Management styles, and along the way adds some very good history. Axelrod clears up the legends and myth surrounding the famous slapping incident, and details the campaigns into Bastogne and to Berlin in short, clear and entertaining fashion. It was truly enjoyable to read this book.<br />To keep the record straight, the format of the book allows for a 3 - 4 hour total read time due to the fact that many of the pages have only 18 - 25 lines of print on them, where as others are in standard layout. The stories will excite, entertain, and cause &quot;out-loud&quot; laughter. The language is harsh sometimes, but perfectly appropriate to the original situation.<br />I say get the SOB book and read it &quot;...every God damn night&quot;, and smile.	2001-11-16
US	52558389	R20RZWM7B3E3MX	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This is Where it All Began, The Joy of Politics	The circumstances around my reading this book made for some good discussions here at home. As I read this book, my lovely wife was reading &quot;John Adams&quot;. You may already know that Mr. Ellis, this book's author, also composed a volume about Mr. Adams entitled &quot;Passionate Sage: The Life and Times of John Adams&quot;. When you read this book, see if you can try this idea with someone, then switch. What a great learning experience. But I digress...<br />As you may already know, Mr. Ellis takes some of America's greatest personalities and elaborates on several incidents in which they were involved that he feels played an important role in the development and history of this country, similar to Lytton Strachey's &quot;Eminent Victorians&quot;. The author dives deeply into the important details of each event, and then expands to include the great picture and impact. He does this with engaging chapter titles, &quot;The Dinner&quot;, &quot;The Collaborators&quot;, &quot;The Friendship&quot;. Then he grabs the readers attention with &quot;The Duel&quot;, &quot;The Farewell&quot;, and &quot;The Silence&quot;.<br />This is one of the best &quot;learning experiences&quot; I can remember. Entertaining, authoratative, endlessly researched and detailed, one can't help but learn and be awed by what these men did so long ago. And then to see that not much has changed since then.<br />Bravo and kudos Mr. Ellis. Well done!! I'm off to get your book about Jefferson.	2001-11-16
US	52558389	R1CN7C1WJPHL9H	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Deep Thought Provoking Look at Yourself	(. . .)P>In a somewhat wordy and lengthy discussion (thus the 4 stars), Mr. Covey presents the reader, in a peaceful and non-judgemental fashion, a way to examine one's life style, and make a few changes that WILL (I say that intentionally) help the reader. There are a wide variety of personal habits that can be examined by the reader as this book is read, and then possibly applied to the reader's life-style. The theories are very stimulating and non-threatening, so they appear as friendly offers to a better, more organized life style. I have found that Mr. Covery's ideas are very good, and have applied some to my world, and feel very good about the results.<br />As I said earlier, there are times when less words may have resulted in more being said, but I see that as personal preference, not a major problem with the writing. I suggest that you read this book, without fear of wasted time, and use the materials as a base to make any changes you feel may be helpful to your life's situations. Well done Mr. Covey.	2001-11-16
US	52558389	RYEB3M4QQD36X	0761508554	531520764	Churchill on Leadership: Executive Success in the Face of Adversity	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The First Step in the Huge Churchill Lexicon	I read this book without having known anything about Chruchill, as a lesson on leadership under stress. I learned a lot, but I also became very interested in the man. He is fasinating and very brave. I'm very gald I read this book.<br />The main idea is to study how Churchill made his leadership decicions, and what the reason for that decision was. It's an informative study of the man, and even funny at times. It's always entertaining, but somewhat short of a great story (so 4 stars).<br />By all means read this book. It's a great way to begin to learn about Churchill, aside from the 3 or 6 volume works available at the bookstore. It's also a good study on decision making based on principles and honest living, strength, and forward thinking. There are good lessons here as well a good reading. I recommend it highly.	2001-10-20
US	52558389	RHD902BYBGRAP	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent History, the Staple of the World War I Library	Since you're a history buff (I assume by your reading this review), you are already aware of the importance of the Battle of Verdun in the big picture of world history. You're most likely looking at this book to see if you want to read it and learn about the battle. Good idea, you go right ahead and get this book, and be proud you did. I have to agree with the other reviewers, this has to be the best english language study about the never-ending battle fought at Verdun. Now you're wondering why it's so good.  Well....<br />Mr. Horne has done the work needed to &quot;know&quot; this battle.  He has the details down to a fine art, and his story telling is pretty good (thus the 4 star rating). The author gives the reader a good sense of the importance of this battle, and even some of the historical background of other Verduns. His treatment of the pre-20th Century political events is worth the time reading this book. It is a very impressive book in the amount of knowledge and information it contains, especially the shell counts for both sides. Amazing.<br />I'll not relate comments about the history contained in this book, that will be your joy to read, but the format, writing style and story telling, well that's fair game. I found the writing a bit dated (original from 1962) and a tad stuffy. Although the author relates the remarkable pain and suffering, especially the sacrifice of the combatants, the story seems to move slowly and without a lot of impact. The material is important and good to experience, but it's kind of academic in it's presentation. The book also feels to have contained a lot more materials that would have helped it flow more easily without feeling bumpy and jumping from one chapter to another.<br />By all means, please do not think I didn't like the book, I did. The description of the fighting a Ft. Douamont alone is very engrossing, but the overall impact of the story leaves the reader a bit unfulfilled. Please read it anyway, as I'm sure that you'll enjoy it. I'd be curious to know what you thought. Thanks Mr. Horne!!	2001-10-20
US	52558389	R1Y58L4UC4CMBA	0471105678	818537961	Successful Marketing Strategies For Nonprofit Organizations (Wiley Nonprofit Law, Finance and Management Series)	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Not For Everyday Reading, But Your Bookshelf Better Have One	As part of my enriching my knowledge of managing non-profits, I have just finished this book. Not a very exciting read from the entertainment standpoint, but the content, there's the rub. There is so much to absorb from this book, it's exciting to be exposed to all the information. Thus, the need to keep reading it (and the 5 stars).<br />There will. be no hints to the specific content of this book, you'll get to be surprised when you read it. Contained in this book though are a variety of Marketing Strategies for the non-profit department manager. The Chief Executive should also read this book and be enlightened to the challenges that face a Marketing Department. There are many lessons for all non-profit managers here, and the fact that everyone needs to be a Marketer may be the most important.<br />The writing style is short, but direct. No florid language, but smooth direction with vital information in each and every paragraph. there are many examples of charts and study questions, facts and figures. It's not the ultimate how-to book on how to run a marketing campaign, but damn near. The materials are thought provoking and clear, challenging and easy to comprehend. When I finished, I felt like I had learnt a lot, and I'm ready to go out a prove it!!<br />If marketing is somehow in your future, then make this book a #1 of #2 (with the Kotler book) purchase. Read and absorb, or refer to occasionally. Just remember, you better have had exposure to it, because your competitor might have.	2001-10-20
US	52558389	RJ0EAAUHKP2SQ	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hold On to Your Seat, It's In-Your-Face History	WOW!! From the first pages of this book, it's hard, direct, and no-holds-barred story telling at it's very, very best. To the point.<br />Mr. Sides starts this book as if the story has been running for 150 pages already. BANG! First page, and you're there and involved, no standing by watching from afar. Right on top of the events and cruelties that are beyond words. And this is how it starts. I anxiously await your next work Mr. Sides.<br />You most likely know something about the Bataan Death March, even if it's the John Wayne movie, but you're going to really learn about it reading this book. I cannot imagine what these men are made of to survive all this. Hero has a new meaning after this read.<br />There is not much critical to say about this book. It is stunning in it's eye opening frankness and candor. Direct in it's story, and doesn't play around with words. It could be a 6 hour newscast. When you start this book, you won't want to stop, and that's not just hollow cliche. That's the fact!!!<br />Get this book, read it, and think about what you read. Look at the men's pictures in the book. Now you'll think about what they did for you, me and the rest of us. Are we even close to this strength, this character. Sadly, I don't think so.<br />Read this book NOW. No excuses, no reasons, READ IT! Then see how you've changed..... .<br />Thank you Mr. Sides for opening my eyes to what the soldiers in the Pacific gave of themselves, and the veterans in the 21st Century have to live with. The flag is brighter and bigger now, and the heroes too!	2001-10-20
US	52558389	RMU5G2W4W0TLC	0140058508	499822874	1066: The Year of the Conquest	Books	5	4	5	N	N	English History That's Very Enjoyable	What a nice surprise. I bought this book without an idea of what I was getting into. The price was right, and I thought that at 200 pages, it would go fast. Fast it went alright.<br />Mr. Howarth is an author to add to the list of great history writers that can relate lots of information in a short amount of time, and be very entertaining while doing it. I have to tell you that I was very surprised at this book. It was just plan fun to read, and I enjoyed learning something while being entertained.<br />The book is, as it says in the title, about the year 1066.  Pretty simple, and that's the way it reads. The author describes life during that year, how people lived and survived. He does this with humor and down to earth writing style. I actually feel like I got to know these people. His descriptions are easy to visualize, and his conclusions are based on great deductive reasoning from printed sources as well as good old common sense. I feel that he has done a tremendous amount of research, not just in old libraries, but down on the docks, in the forests, and on the ocean. Job well done.<br />And the people. William, Harold, Edward, the Godwins, the whole bunch is here, and they sound like regular folks that were major players in huge events that were just normal life for them. Their greater and lesser strengths are presented in easy readable forms, and behavior is very well understood with this information.<br />Well done Mr. Howarth! I am truly surprised at how good this book is, and also very glad I read it. Next: Lord Nelson!!	2001-09-29
US	52558389	R2VHR5B32N93AY	051720293X	757793795	Leadership Lessons of Robert E. Lee: Tips, Tactics. and Strategies for Leaders and Managers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Kind and Gentle Leader	The first book I read by Mr. Holton was a similar book, just about U. S. Grant. I liked that one a lot (I have a review here also), so much so that I went ahead and got this one too. I figured that I'd give both sides a fair chance...<br />Well, I was not disappointed in the least. The style is the same as the Grant volume, and the format is the same.  None the less, it reads very well and is very informative, although not as entertaining as I would have liked, thus the 4 stars. One thing for sure, you'll get to know Lee very well reading this book. And there are many lessons to be had from the reading, possibly one on every page, if you feel so inclined.<br />As with the Grant volume, Mr. Holton takes one area of leadership and reports how Lee acted in regards to that item (Patriot Voice, Duty are 2 examples). Each discussion is contained on one page! A very good use of words by the writer makes this work. Then it's on to the next, then the next, the next, and so on. One can read one page and think about it, or take a couple of hours and polish off the whole book!! I perferred the slower method.<br />However you choose to read this bbok, make sure that you do read it, and the Grant volume also. You'll get a good look at 2 very important military minds of our short history. You'll also learn some important lessons on how to deal with people and situations, in both business and personal life.  Well done Mr. Holton. Thank you!	2001-09-29
US	52558389	RAZ7AR2U1U0OO	0887306012	457766044	Managing the Non-Profit Organization: Principles and Practices	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Management Practices that Work for Non-Profits	A tremendous book. This book has to be one of the main titles in any library of the non-profit or future non-profit manager. The amount of expertise that Mr. Durcker relates is amazing. His conversational style, as well as conversations are very engaging and easy to read. Although this is not a &quot;pleasure&quot; read, it is pleasurable to read. One never feels preached at or lectured to, just informed by THE MAN!!!<br />There are many, many inmportant theories that are related in this book. I feel that the for-profit manager can also gather good knowledge reading this book. I also liked the format of the written chapter seperated by the Q &amp; A discussion chapter. The chapter discussion with Philip Kotler and Dudley Hafner were my favorites. There is good, solid advice on management practices, and there are also many items that can be used to improve personal management style. Marketing and &quot;Fund Development&quot; are also presented in a knowledgeable and engaging fashion.<br />I don't like to talk too much about the contents of a book, but I feel very comfortable telling you that if your are studying to be a non-profit manager, or sharpening your current techniques, then read this book, as well as all the other Peter Drucker books you can. One cannot go wrong with this kind of intelligence. A hearty thanks to you Mr. Drucker....	2001-09-29
US	52558389	RB00262Y33YI0	051716180X	949575123	Leadership Lessons of Ulysses S. Grant	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Simple Easy Lessons for Leaders and Managers	Try 147 pages of easy to read and understand logic to improve your leadership skills. This should be part of an advertisement for this little gem.<br />It's a small book, with more white space on the page then words, but the power and effect of the words included are tremendous. No fancy, long, complicated wrtiing, but just right to the point writing that will make it's impact.  If it takes 4 hours to read the whole thing, you're a slow reader. But it's the lessons, the lessons that will be around you for a long time. And it's all so simple. That is the truly amazing aspect of the book, simplicity.<br />Dr. Holton, in discussing General Grant's leadership qualities, in fact uses them in his writing. Every character that he discusses is reflected in the writing style of the book. The section on &quot;Brevity&quot;, well it's the shortest of the book. See what I mean? Dr. Holton also shows the greatness of Grant through the eyes of others using their own words to describe the man who was the General.<br />This is a very, very good book for learning and studying. I didn't enjoy it as some other reads that I've made recently, but I have not a single regret. The time went fast, and the book succeeded in it's goal, to teach me about the great man that was General Grant, and also about the tools he used, that I can use, to lead people.<br />Thank you Dr. Holton. R. E. Lee is next.....	2001-08-11
US	52558389	R232MFIXZTKOUG	0887306128	773217590	Effective Executive, The	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Go to the Head of the Class with This Great Leadership Book	First of all, if you're looking for a highly detailed review of the content of this book, nope, wrong place! I review books with the enjoymnet factor being of number 1 importance. What I learn after my enjoymnet comes next. There's another review of this title that you can read for high level stimulation. So, let's get going...<br />I liked this book a lot, how's that for intellectual. It reads well, I was entertained and I learned a lot more then I expected, which is good for I planned on learning a lot about becoming an effective executive. But history lessons, hey, this is a bonus.<br />Mr. Drucker uses, as have other leadership teachers, many important history lessons of this century to illustrate his effective executive points. He includes life adventures of Gen. Marshall, Presidents Roosevelt and Kennedy, even Bach, Mozart, Verdi and Haydn to illustrate points.  One of my favorite comments is from Chapter 5 (First Things First), &quot;Executives can hardly assume that they are 'executive Mozarts'&quot;. No more hints, you'll understand when you read the book. The chapter addressing &quot;The Elements of Decision Making&quot; is the best of the book, although the others are not far behind.<br />If you are in the market for a book on executive leadership, you better put this close to the top of your short reading list. If you are searching for an insightful look at some 20th Century history, then this is a good stop for the political scientist.  Whatever your reason, buy and read this book, and see how it helps you become a more decisive and better leader, oops, &quot;Executive&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	52558389	R2CQL9MSSN2MNE	0446394599	757546814	Lincoln on Leadership: Executive Strategies for Tough Times	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Small Book with a Large Tale	Lincoln on Leadership, that's what the title says. How simple! But get inside and be prepared to change the way you think about work, leadership, leaders, the works. This is one of those books that you'll always look back on and remember how things were different after reading it. It will really impact you in different ways. Let's get on with it...<br />I have always thought of Lincoln of a unique man placed in the path of a rampaging destiny that he managed to confront and redirect to a more tame direction. He accomplished things that no other president has even had to prepare for, and this book gives you some insite into how he did it. There cannot be a more human man on the planet.<br />Now let's go to the writing. Mr. Phillips provides a fabulous story that shows what made Lincoln the great leader he was. In doing this, the reader is supposed to get the point, then apply these traits to their toolbox of leadership skills. I'm so impressed by this little book, that I will carry it with me wherever I go, and read it whenever I have a chance. I want to buy one for my boss, but he won't get it.  Anyway, they are words to live by, and skills to use for the enhancement of your own leadership skills. Come on, give it a try.<br />Mr. Phillips even includes a good amount of history, Civil War obviously, in his writing. In my many years of reading about the Civil War, I have yet to encounter, in 15 or so pages, a better description of the problems, search, changes, politics, and ultimate success Lincoln had in finding generals to run his armies. The author covers all theaters, clearly, with detail, and in an engaging fashion. I find that a book that can teach me 2 or 3 different things at the same time is a rare find, and worth more then it's value.<br />If you're getting this book for a class, work, or related venture, what a treat you have in store. If you're reading this for the hisroty and political science, also a treat awaits. But if you're reading this to learn about being a leader, then prepare yourself for a life altering experience.<br />Thank you so much Mr. Phillips.	2001-08-11
US	52558389	RZLGTSO720ZBP	0674518586	630928892	Leadership Without Easy Answers	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Civil Rights, Viet Nam and Selma, all for Leadership	I just finished this book, not even 10 minutes ago, and I made my way to the computer so that I could tell you who is reading this that you better get this book, &quot;go out on the balcony&quot; and start changing things.<br />Talk about an intelligent read, WOW! The author is certainly entitled to that praise, and the writing is also. Although a bit technical and almost similar to a post-graduate course text, one can still read this book and actually enjoy it. It's a good read which I found hard to walk away from sometimes. But talk about food for thought.<br />Mr. Heifetz has a lot of methods for you to consider and apply to your leadership position. His theories are clear, a bit detailed but understandable, and always supported by historic incident. His discussion of LBJ and MLK during the Voting Rights demonstrations in Selma during the 60's is an endless source for leadership rights and wrongs. His anaylsis of better &quot;adaptive work&quot; will make you think. And the next time you have to break bad news to someone, well, here's the source. I watched President Bush give his speech on stem cell research last night, and he follows the guidelines that can be found in this book. When you read it, this will all become clear.<br />4 stars just because it's not the most entertaining book I've read, but it's 5 stars, even 6 for the level of leadership analysis and instruction you get when you read this book, and you will. See, it's already working......	2001-08-11
US	52558389	R1TN0F47DG58JP	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Pillar of History and Patriotic Fervor	How does one possibly review/critique this work? It's a magnificent document written at a time of great upheaval and trials. Deep questions of great magnitude are asked and answered here. If you haven't read this in your school years, then try it now, and understand what was in the souls of a generation long gone.<br />This very short document is beautifully written, and perfectly typical of the period from which it came. The words inspire, entice, infuriate, and move the reader to action. How they must have burned in the minds of those who lived under British rule.<br />There is no need to say anything about &quot;Common Sense&quot;. If you have any interest in history and the strength of it's words, then read this book NOW. Uncle Tom's Cabin, The Gettysburg Address, Declaration of Independance all stand together with Common Sense as examples of the power of the pen, or the word. What strength lies here. Where have THESE writers gone??<br />Read this very soon, it will show you many things about your life.	2001-07-05
US	52558389	R2AW3M6EUBZKF9	1574883593	308837721	The Way It Was - Pearl Harbor: The Original Photographs (America Goes to War)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If You Read Only 2 Books On Pearl Harbor, This Has to Be One	I just finished &quot;At Dawn We Slept&quot; and was very impressed with it. I then saw the movie &quot;Pearl Harbor&quot;. On a coffee stop at the bookstore, I saw this book, and bought it on the good impression of a similar volume about D-Day by the same editors. The coffee was just OK, but the book is tremendous.<br />This book, as did the D-Day issue (see my review if you're interested), presents original photos tied together with a fairly simple narrative that tells the story of the Pearl Harbor attack. You'll get to see photos of all the major players, Kimmel, Short, Yamamoto, et al. Some of the attack photos are pretty amazing. The original Japanese photos are stunning and good for hardware fans. The Japanese ariel photos lend great detail to the story. The superimposed flight patterns are very instructive. As I implied above, after Prange's book and the movie, this book was the crowning glory to my Pearl Harbor reading.<br />This book will catch you off-guard. At first it looks very simple, which it is, almost for children, but when you dive into it, it gets surprisingly detailed. All the US planes that were involved are present in photographs, even a B-18! The text presents facts and occurances, and no politics. 90% of the ship photos are spectacular.<br />So, go out and buy this book. You really should have it, then read one of the many books about Pearl Harbor. The photos will make the story live. Well done Mr. Goldstein and Ms Dillon.	2001-06-19
US	52558389	R34KH1G47AIU66	0811705781	369303076	Encyclopedia of the American Revolution	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Must Have Source for All That's Revolutionary!!	First of all, my hat's off to Amazon. I ordered this book on the 15th and received it on the 19th. Now that's fast. On to the good stuff..<br />I usually wait until I finish a book before reviewing it, but not this time. At 1251 pages, that will be a while, but, I've spent about 2 hours reading a variety of entries, and this is a good book. It doesn't read like a novel, well it's not you know, but the items of discussion are very good reading. Short but informative, this may not be the last place to find everything there is to know about the Revolution, but it's pretty close. I have yet to think of a topic that is not covered, in detail, by this book. The writing style is varied depending on the length of entry, and the cross references are abundant. One can spend a lot of time bouncing from reference to reference to reference if desired.<br />I'm sorry to hear that the book was out of print, hard to imagine with all the knowledge contained inside, but I'm very glad it's back on the shelves. After reading 2 of Mr. Ketchum's books (reviews on Amazon) this should fill out the Revolutionary section of my library very nicely.<br />Highly recommended to all with Revolutionary War interest. Get it soon.	2001-06-19
US	52558389	R2RB1UUKBGQMZR	0140157344	335507424	At Dawn We Slept: The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The Only Pearl Harbor Book to Read is Right Here	I truly enjoy books that have lots of detail. They read as if every word is fact, and there is no doubt about what appears there in print. This is one of those books.<br />The most amazing fact about this volume is that the author declares that he researched this book for 37 years! I have absolutely no doubt about that statement. His sources are endless, and his attention to detail is without pier. And stand back revisionists. He pretty much buries all those approaches and theories with solid scholarship and fact.<br />This book is amazing!!!<br />... A remarkable 1 year story leading to the attack that reads easy and fast, with plenty of aside humor, and will be very difficult to put down. Short chapters crammed with information. Perfection is tying together a billion events into a story line that moves ahead to it's target with precision and accruracy. There are vivid descriptions of ships, people, places, occurances, whatever, that are a joy to read. What a writer this guy is!<br />I find it hard to believe that any of the other books about Pearl Harbor can compare with this volume. If you're one of the few people who haven't seen the movie yet, do as I did. Read this first, at least 470 pages, then go see the movie (luckly I finished before the movie trip). You'll have a very enjoyable experience.<br />Finally, every history buff should read this book, MUST read this book, for the lessons learned, and for the joy of a superbly crafted book. ...	2001-06-15
US	52558389	R4YIWCXDH059E	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	2	2	N	N	See It, Feel It, and Experience It.	You have to like it when someone admits right up front that they have not personally experienced a topic, but that they have studied it and will relate what they have found from that research so that the reader can share and experience it. That's the way Mr. Keegan begins his writing about battle/combat.<br />It's hard to imagine that one who has not been in battle can actually describe what battle/combat is like. But let me tell you, John Keegan can do it and do it well. He manages to get the reader to feel the terror that soldiers must experience. Somehow the fear prior to battle is perfectly described, and the boredom also. Best of all, the mindset of the individual combatant, foot, horse or artillery, comes right to you as if fired from a weapon. I was truly amazed at how Mr. Keegan related these feelings, sometimes jumping off the page. From English stoic to German determined, he honestly captures what combat, life threatening combat, must be like. Quite an acheivement.<br />Mr. Keegan's application of battle physics is very nicely done. His entire discussion of Cavalry Vs Infantry at Waterloo is very impressive. Horses won't do this, men won't do that, and forget about the Romantic art work, they don't know about combat.<br />Lastly, Mr. Keegan's logic about combat situations is outstanding. The often forgotten issues (injured, dead, broken and battered equipment) gets added into the situation, and the reality flows forth. The section about Argincourt illustrates this perfectly.<br />If you are a military student, this book needs to be a priority on your reading list, no matter what period you study. Once you understand the mind of the line soldier, then the &quot;battle&quot; becomes more vivid and real. Thank you John Keegan, another excellent read.	2001-05-10
US	52558389	R3QDNV560BHG70	1564585026	123639919	Florence & Tuscany (EYEWITNESS TRAVEL GUIDE)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Eyewitness To Florence and Tuscany, The Only Way to Go.	This is the second of the Triumverate of Eyewitness books for traveling to Italy, the others are &quot;Rome&quot; and &quot;Italy&quot;. My wife and I used these books endlessly in preparing our trip there. This is another great book, almost equal to the Eyewitness Rome. Once again I'll gladly say, if you're going, get this book.<br />It's hard to imagine that one book can cover both Florence and Tuscany. This one doesn't get it all, but you'll certainly have a very good idea of what's up before you go, or during for that matter. The maps are great (in 3D), and the discussions about sites, cities, traveling and other Italian fare are very good. Yes I agree with another reviewer, the hotel list is small, but for us that's fine. We like to check as many sources (Internet, various giudes, word-of-mouth, etc.) when searching for a hotel. The sample presented here is a good suggestion, not a definitive ultimate list.<br />You can't go wrong with this book. Buy it before, take and read it during, then enjoy it's memory after.	2001-02-23
US	52558389	RO2114FFM8Z18	1564581861	829493527	DK Eyewitness Travel Guide: Rome	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Here's The Key to A Successful Trip to Rome.	We have quite a collection of these Eyewitness tour guide books. We've never traveled without one. If you're planning on going to Rome sometime, get this book. You'll be glad you did.<br />Besides the walking tours, and the 3D mpas, there is the handiest section in the back that discusses in detail the various aspects of Roman/Italian life. Check out the section about Italian money, with great pictures of the coinage. The hotel listings are not complete, but they provide a good offering of whats available. Use them, or explore on your own. There is also a very descriptive section of using the phone, gettting from the Airport to the Termini station, complete with photos of the terminals.<br />To make this short, the Eyewitness books, Rome in particular, are great tools prior to and during your trip. We have 8 different cities/regions and they get used, even for reading after the trip when we look and the maps/photos and say &quot;Rememeber that&quot; or &quot;we were there&quot;...<br />Get one now, and be well prepared.	2001-02-23
US	52558389	R30HC49BL7UHGI	1562614789	560783027	Rick Steves' Italian: Phrase Book & Dictionary (Rick Steves' Italian Phrase Book, 4th ed)	Books	5	140	144	N	N	Prego...	Now if you read this book, you'd know what that means (Can I help you. Do you speak Italian? Here it is). It's not a high school langauge class, but it's a lot more fun, and with some time you'll get pretty good.<br />I think Rick does a great job is laying out the phrases that you'll need if you go to Italy. We're going in a few weeks, and it's really helping. Now if he could only improve the memory.<br />The book is small, will fit in a shirt pocket. It's broken down into sections (basics, eating, chating, etc.) so you can focus in on a section that you need, master it, then move to another section. After you've been through it all, you can then start combining different phrases and make some great sentences. It's got a lot of mnaterial in it, so start early when you decide to use it.<br />Thanks Rick, I actually feel that I can go into the Italian world and be somewhat understood. And, not to worry, I'll smile as I butcher the language, use my hands a lot, and laugh at the whole thing.	2001-02-22
US	52558389	RIYHPRFQV873X	0806957336	147217414	Historic Ship Models	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The &quot;Go To&quot; Book If You're Building, or Dreaming	Yup, this is a very handy book for the modelist. When I first started building, I didn't spend much time with this book, but as I ventured deeped into those small pieces of wood, I started to spend more and more time with it. Now, I use this book as the prime source whenever I have a question about the hobby, then suppliment the information with a few other books I have (see my other reviews if interested).<br />The diagrams are clear, easy to understand. The charts are easy to use and very accurate. For building a Mayflower, it has provided a good base of information, although somewhat light on early 17th Century vessels. It's been a great help in my learning this hobby.<br />The other joy of this book is just in the reading, or picture looking. I really enjoy just thumbing through the book and seeing what things are about, and how they work, why, and where. If the kid in your likes to &quot;make believe&quot;, then spend some time with this book and imagine all the different items contained in it, working out on the sea, with the sun shining, the wind blowing, and the ship making 12 knots in perfect silence.....	2001-02-22
US	52558389	RMPJI9HRYEQPF	1562614215	611353829	Rick Steves' Mona Winks: Self-Guided Tours of Europe's Top Museums (Mona Winks: Self-Guided Tours of Europe's Top Museums, 4th ed)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Now I'm Fired Up and Ready To Go	Let's get this out right from the beginning, I'm a Rick Steves fan. I love his show on PBS. I tend to disagree with his complete travel philosophy, especially about &quot;inexpensive&quot; hotels. With that said, let me tell you about this book.<br />It's GREAT!!!!<br />With a trip to Italy pending, I decided to read the sections that applied, and WOW! The Vatican Museum, it ain't so bad, the Uffizi, HA, bring it on. The development of Medievel to Renaissance art, a piece of cake. This is the way to learn Art History, fast, easy, and entertaining. And St. Peter's, well now I'm ready.<br />Rick has this great way of telling stories, and relating facts. He made me laugh. But boy the information that's related. The inner meanings of the art is related is a simple down-to-earth fashion that I wish I had experienced in college. He very casually tells the stories of the artists and how they were influenced to create the works you'll enjoy. You'll even be told where to look in the room, how to get to the room, and where to take a seat and rest &quot;your Uffizis&quot;. Well, not all the jokes are very funny.....<br />Anyway, if you're planning on going to any of the great museums in Europe, then ABSOLUTELY get this book. Don't leave home without it, or at least photocopies of the pages. I like my books too much to rip the pages out as Rick recommends. We plan on carrying it with us into the museums and reading it while standing in front of the work. It's also very easy to read 3 or 4 times. He just doesn't get boring or dull.<br />One last thing. Kudos to Gene Openshaw. He has to be the brains behind the Art History. I'd take a class from him in a heartbeat.<br />Buy this book NOW, even if you're not going to Europe. Once again, history is where you find it, and the love of Art can be enjoyed even if not in it's presence.	2001-02-21
US	52558389	R1KPBN3Z3I8YSN	1566912288	655820104	Rick Steves' 2001 Europe Through the Back Door (Rick Steves' Europe Through the Back Door)	Books	5	62	63	N	N	How to Get More From Your Trip To Europe, and Spend Less	I like this philosophy for traveling, not all, but a great part. If you want to have fun on your Europe trip, read this book, understand the points it makes, then go. No tour, no guide, all alone or with your &quot;traveling partner&quot;. This is the way to travel, and to experience the people and the culture of where you are. Rick does a great job letting you in on some great ideas. He'll also open your eyes as to what to get from your travels, or lose from your travels.<br />If you go to Europe and say once &quot;It's not the way I have it at home&quot;, then don't read this book unless you're ready to change your attitude. If you raise your voice louder and continue to speak English, then stay home and don't read this book. If you want the adventure of traveling to Europe and immersing yourself in the culture and people, way of life, and past, then read this book, buy your plane tickets, and get going. All the tools you'll want are in this book. You just add the adventure. Be brave.<br />This is the best story telling instruction book I've read in a long time. Rick gives you all you'll need to get off anywhere in Europe and be able to survive and enjoy. He'll encourage you to free your mind, talk in bad local language with a smile, change money, ride the train, order dinner at the local eatery, and how to just enjoy the life you're experiencing. Remember you go there because it's different from where you live.<br />There is so much information for the traveler here that it's hard to grab 1 or 2 ideas and discuss them. The one thing that stands out is that you'll approach your trip to Europe from a totally different angle after reading this book.<br />Rick, we go in 10 days, and thanks for the help.....	2001-02-21
US	52558389	R1MPENUT0W8VK9	048627960X	292514390	The Rigging of Ships: in the Days of the Spritsail Topmast, 1600-1720 (Dover Maritime)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Hard-To-Find Information Now At The Tip of Your Fingers	In another review, I said that one needed 3 books as a foundation for the hobby of model ship building. Oops, I was wrong.  This is number 4!<br />Since I'm building a model of the Mayflower (1620), this is the book that has all the answers for all the questions I have. From mast tapering, angles, and length, to rigging hints and methods. This is the square riggers handbook. There is a ton of information, yes covering 1600-1625 period ships. Although there is more for the later part of the title, not to fear, the early part of the title is very well covered.<br />Despite the hard to read (and messy) illustrations, and weak reductions of original materials, the content of the book requires it get a 5-star rating. Even the dated language doesn't matter. Move past that, and the knowledge is abundant.<br />If you're not a modeler, and a fan of square rigged sailing vessels, then this is the book to learn how they operated. Very thorough in it's coverage of all the aspects of the vessel's rigging. You can almost feel the ropes in your hands.<br />So I'm sorry to say, you'll need this book too in your collection... Don't delay.....	2001-01-22
US	52558389	R21PGOTEBAT4CW	0486255840	643233323	The Ship Model Builder's Assistant	Books	4	40	42	N	N	The Second Book Of The Ship Modeling Foundation	The only reason I didn't give this book 5 stars is due to the dated writing, which is sometimes distracting. If not for that, it's 5 stars!!<br />A must for you if you're just beginning, like me. The author explains everything very well. Not only how things work, but why they work. His specifics about construction are excellent, if only for those who are curious about sailing vessels. His charts are wonderful for answering questions about construction and cutting before the cut is made. He really gets down to the nuts and bolts.<br />I don't agree that this book is not for the beginner. I'm a beginner, and I have learned much from this book, and continue to reinforce that knowledge with the book. If you be a beginning builder, a student of sailing vessels, or just plain curious about the subject, get this book. Remember, it reads a bit differently then more current books, but you'll smile at that fact, and get the benefit of the knowledge imparted within.	2001-01-04
US	52558389	R1AA7CKMM2791L	0071558675	981942865	Ship Modeling Simplified: Tips and Techniques for Model Construction from Kits	Books	5	47	50	N	N	One of The Foundation Books of The Hobby	Yup, this one right here. My wife got this for me! I just started in this hobby, and SHE buys the best book. Isn't that always the way.<br />Anyhow, this is a trememdous book about building wooden ship models. It's clear, easy to read, and makes perfect sense. You'll learn more in 10 minutes of reading then hours of weeding through any kit's instructions. Start right here, then move on. This is a must book for modeling, and also, it's just plain fun to read. Many of the questions you have right now can be answered by reading this book. It has really helped me get going.<br />Don't wait any longer. Get this book, then find yourself a ship to build. Go for it.	2001-01-04
US	52558389	R1TIM2NMJ7SXX5	1557505888	851750325	A Most Fortunate Ship: A Narrative History of Old Ironsides	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good History That's a Joy to Read	I grew up in Massachusetts, and I can remember those field trips to Boston to see all the history, and the Constitution. I wish I could have appreciated it then as I do now. Oh well, at least I like it now.<br />This is a great book. What a fun read that is hard to put down. It's not dry history with lots of dates, numbers, and charts. There is a real story here, about a ship, the men who served her, and the history behind her.<br />There are a few other books on the market about the Constitution, some sold at the museum in Charlestown, but this is the one to read. Front to back, it's very entertaining. The author sites journals, letters, stories, legends, and even the ship's log to gather information to form the story of a ship that never lost an engagement, although almost the victim apathy. The decks are once again alive with activity and danger. The wind fills the sails, and the ocean sprays into the air.<br />If you like the sea and sailing, read this book. If you like ships and sailing, read this book. But if you like well told history, then definitely read this book.	2001-01-02
US	52558389	RH0SNTKAMK7WC	0830628444	921516346	Ship Modeling from Stem to Stern	Books	5	28	29	N	N	No One Knows What He Can Do Till He Tries	This quote by Publilius Syrus preceeds Chapter 20 of Mr. Roth's book. If you've always wanted to build a wooden ship model, but were afraid, get this book, and watch the fears evaporate.<br />My lovely wife had Santa deliver a wooden kit of the Mayflower under the Christmas this year, complete with sketchy instructions and documentation. How would I ever learn all I needed to know to build this kit. But alas, there is a great book I hear about this...<br />And now here I am, telling all the Amazon world that they need to read this book. If you've never built one of these wooden marvels, then this book will give you all you need to know, and then some. The pictures are clear, the text easy to read and very informative. My particular joy was the first one, &quot;seizing a line&quot; (page 250, Fig. 19-35). After one minute of effort, I had it down, and then all the other techniques and instructions were a breeze. I no longer have any fear of this model, and can't wait to get at it.<br />There are hundreds of illustrations and photos. The writing is good, plain and clear. Each chapter is preceeded with a famous quote from history that will amuse and apply. I don't know much about building ships, but after this book, I feel that I have a good handel on it. The detail contained is very good, maybe even more then you'll want. The chapter on naval cannon alone is pretty stunning.<br />I'll tell you, get this book, get your favorite wooden ship model, then go to town. Mr. Roth has certainly increased my joy with this hobby!! FEAR NOT!!	2001-01-02
US	52558389	RZ7W3WBRIY5HK	0385496842	228406468	The Circus Fire: A True Story	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Lot's of Facts, Lot's of Details, but Where's The Story??	I went to school in Hartford, and have heard many tales about this terrible fire. My parents used to talk about it when we went to the circus in Massachusetts. It was with great excitement that I bought this book, thinking that all would be tied together.<br />Well, almost.<br />How I hate being the nay-sayer, but this is a book without a story, although occassionally it gets close. The layout of a day a chapter, then all that happend on that day didn't lead to anything. Imagine June 6, 19XX. Fact A, Fact B, then Fact C, D, E. Next paragraph! Fact F, G, H, I, etc. But where's the story?? I never had a change to get attached to anyone, anything, except Little Miss 1565, and that from previous reading. I did read the whole book to get to the final facts about Miss 1565, but it was a long hard journey. There is also a distracting habit of using slang terms without explaination. I spent lots of time wondering what he was talking about. Then there are city names, presented without State names. Fitchburg, Glastonbury for example. If one is not familiar with the region, one wouldn't know that Fitchburg is in Massachusetts and Glastonbury in Connecticut.<br />By no means do I say that Mr. O'Nan is not a good writer, he relates all that one could want in his writing, but the story didn't get a hold of me. His graphic details about burns and bruises, medical treatments, etc. are pretty &quot;to-the-point&quot;, but where did it all go. Kudos to his research, which must have been endless and massive in scope. I just missed the story telling.<br />I cannot think of anything more terrible then what these people went through, as Mr. O'Nan let's the reader know, some times a bit strongly and what I think is just for sensationalism. What a period of sadness for all those involved. For them I feel badly. Mr. O'Nan did get that point across. He has certainly added to my life's experiences by filling in missing pieces to stories I heard growing up. I thank him for that.<br />To close,I got the feeling that this book was put together quickly despite all the research, so as to get to market before Don Massey's &quot;A Matter of Degree&quot;, which I plan on reading as a comparison version. Please read this book, as there are many other good reviews of it here. You may get more from it then I did.	2000-11-27
US	52558389	R3RWLM2O6N2A3K	0140096507	169053954	The Price of Admiralty: The Evolution of Naval Warfare from Trafalgar to Midway	Books	5	4	4	N	N	From Sea to Shining Sea, A Great Tour	I have to say right off the bat that I learned a lot reading this book.  I've always been a land based military reader, and this was my first  adventure to the ocean. I'm glad I went along.<br />Mr. Keegan is by far one  of the best history writers around. I didn't think that at first, but after  this book I do. Just the section about Trafalgar is enough to convince me  of that. WOW! Mr. Keegan appears to know everything there is to know about  ships of the line, men of the ship, and every last detail of those  magnificent sailing ships of long ago. The best words I can say is read  this, it is worth every minute you spend. A new world awaits, and it's full  of naval splendor. But wait..<br />There's also Jutland, Midway, and of course  the Battle of the Atlantic. Prepare for a lesson is economics, human  sacrifice, and the value of flour. The entire early years of WWII are  cleared and described via the convoy. Amazing! And the best part, it all  goes back to Trafalgar.<br />Thank you Mr. Keegan for this book. My wooden  model of the &quot;Victory&quot; is soon to arrive. I truly enjoyed your  nautical world.	2000-09-12
US	52558389	R21MCLSZAWLLDS	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Harsh Realities of Mankind Against Mankind, Get Mad	I read this book in high school. Yea sure, I got a B+ on the report, and forgot about it. Now, 30-blank years later I read it again, to see what I missed. WOW! <br />I am not a big fan of nuclear warfare, been to the 50's,  know &quot;duck-and-cover&quot;, and I wish it would all go away. So, I  thought that politics would be involved in this book, somehow. Well, let me  tell you, the stories in this book, all 6 of them, are remarkable and  without equal. When you think you've read or heard it all, there's more.  The pure harsh cruelity of man against man is hard to imagine, be it from  strangers, friends, family, authority, wherever it comes from. The  carelessness of suffering, friends &amp; family, and the casual attitude of  the situation is stunning, absolutely stunning. Never can the high school  student in me actually understand this book.<br />The Japanse culture is  wonderfully represented in the suffering they bore after the bomb. I  received a great lesson in the people of Japan and the way they look at  life and death. Having missed the war, I can't feel the hate for them that  some may, but to have lived through what they did, I feel now only sadness  and sympathy. God must have a special place for all these survivors.<br />This  book is an emotional ride that I was surprised by. 2 nights, and it was  over, but what a 2 nights. Mr. Hersey will bore into your guts and give  your real emotion. You will be appalled by the pain, calousness,  matter-of-factness, media hype, and even greed. I was stunned by the last  of these. The book takes no position of right or wrong, just relates the  story in a cold fashion that gets your attention. No drama, no excitement,  just the story, the facts.<br />Prepare yourself, then read this book. The  emotional roller coster awaits. Thank you Mr. Hersey.	2000-07-26
US	52558389	R3LU049MGS885E	0783547048	384771896	Antietam (Voices of the Civil War)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Horror of War, Up Close and Personal	The books of this Time Life series are very important to anyone who wants to learn about the Civil War.  The first series, the gray set, is a good starter, but this set is a great next step.<br />This particular volume is  very moving and comsuming.  I found it hard to leave, and I also found it  somewhat haunting.  Fortunately, I've been to Antietam many times, and know  the ground pretty well, but the men's words change the ground into a  hallowed field that will always be looked at differently.<br />There is in  this book a cold matter-of-factness in the letters and writings of the  participants that is unsettling.  Death and human destruction are so  common, that it matters not to the writer.  To losely quote General W. T.  Sherman, &quot;I look at the lose of a few thousand men as a morning  dash&quot;.<br />To read this book is to go back in time, to live as they did,  and to feel what they felt.  The editors did a fine job of material  selection.  Can not imporve on the contents at all.  Well done to  all.<br />When you read the book (and you better), try to prepare yourself for  the final 2 pages, the article from the New York Times newspaper.  Words  like this do not come often in this life, and to miss these would be a  loss.  Events such as these deserve to be memoralized and remembered, or we  are &quot;doomed to relive them&quot;.  A stunning book for all.	2000-07-20
US	52558389	R2BS24M3DSX1W1	0671890913	686500362	The Longest Day: The Classic Epic of D-Day	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Perfect Name for a Remarkable Story Well Told	I saw this movie a long, long time ago, then I grew older and read the book.  Sorry to you movie fans, but the book is what it's about, the story.<br />What the movie lacks in detail, the book has.  3 hours of film  cannot begin to scratch the surface the way the book does.  Mr. Ryan  plunges into details about everything involved with D-Day, and not just  shooting and fighting.  There are stories about newlyweds, converted  gamblers, families at home, and from both sides of the beach.  Somehow he  manages to cover in a bit over 350 pages, almost all that is important  about D-Day.  What a daunting tast this must have been!  But let me say  this, Mr. Ryan achieves a level of wrting quality that is very rare.<br />This  book goes from top to bottom of the chain of command, Supreme Commander to  private soldier, all have their stories told in grand fashion, but never  long winded.  The reading flys by, and you'll have to hang on to the book,  or so it'll feel.  It never gets slow, but moves from page to page with a  determination that most books don't have.<br />If you know the ground, this  book will be a great pleasure.  If you don't know the ground, then you will  have a great picture of it when you get there.  If you like history, this  is a read that will be an event in your study and/or enjoyment of the  subject.  It's even better the second time.<br />Read it now!	2000-07-19
US	52558389	R1F1PWOLVOKGIO	0670888044	162082942	The Book of War	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Romans to Iraqis, Prose and Verse, It's Right Here!	I never thought of Julius Caesar as a good writer, or George Orwell as a soldier/fighter.  Then I read this book, which at first I was a bit reluctant about.  Guilt caused me to read it, but pleasure lead me to  finish it, and I'm very glad I did.<br />The book is a great collection of  some of the greatest war writings available, and that's the best way to  describe them.  Mr. Keegan introduces each &quot;article&quot; with short  tellings of the background of each piece.  These short intros are worth  their weight in gold, as they are clear, honest, and detailed.  Small gems  for the reader, that's the best way to describe them.<br />Now, after each of  these gems comes a tale, epic, letter, or poem, yes poem!   &quot;In  Flanders fields the poppies grow..&quot; or how about &quot;Into the valley  of death rode the 600...&quot;  How refreshing to revisit these childhood  memories while exploring such dramatic tales of combat, fear, or war.   Truly remarkable.  I couldn't put the book down for fear of missing the  next literary jewel.<br />Now let's talk about Victor Hugo (in War?) or George  Orwell's terrible wound described by himself.  There's also Davy Crockett,  and my favorite, the stunning Julius Caesar.  When Caesar writes an  after-action report, he gets the point across.  Also read about the soldier  lost in the WWI trenches, the A-bomb aftermath, and Ernie Pyle's report  from Normandie.  The famous &quot;Thin Red Line&quot; of Balaclava is  presented in 1st person reality that is awesome in it's readability.<br />So  in other words, this is a termondous book.  Mr. Keegan, you have done us  all a great service by 1) your choice of the fine materials you included,  and 2) by your excellent preparation of each for the reader.  I'm a  believer now, and my Keegan section will soon be growing...Thank you.	2000-07-18
US	52558389	R18AXDITQNR4YR	0684803305	874197393	A Bridge Too Far: The Classic History of the Greatest Battle of World War II	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Story Too Real	This is my second read of Cornelius Ryan's, the first being The Longest Day.  Let me tell you, this man is a remarkable writer.  WOW!<br />From reading his words, Mr. Ryan gives me the impression that everything he  says, tells, or writes about is perfectly correct.  The depth of research  is astounding.  The conviction to detail and to the exact words gave me the  impression that he was there at all the events, no matter how small.  From  glider pilot seats to German General Staff meetings, he speaks with such  authority it's as if he wrote the words, and everyone performed the play.   Truly remarkable.<br />Needless to say, Operation Market Garden was doomed and  under prepared.  If not for strong egos needing gratification, a better  planned, less destructive operation may have been realized.  The men and  women of this book live on it's pages, telling the story for all the angles  which will allow you to read and make your own decision as to the value of  the operation.  The bravery of the soldiers underscores the term Military  Blunder as presented by the General Staff.  And how it all lives in the  print of this book.  The 88's live, the Tigers rumble and terrify, the  smells and sounds are all there.  The arrogance, egotism and ignornace are  also there too.  Once again, WOW!<br />If you haven't read this book, get it  now.  Don't see the movie, read the words.  If you've read it before, then  read it again.  This is how history should be written, alive, strong and  effective.<br />Finally, this particular edition is a good size book. Heavy  enough, but not too.  It feels good in your hands, solid and firm.  A great  experience all around.	2000-07-11
US	52558389	REFWE5EK4SN9H	0805060987	320220687	The Winter Soldiers: The Battles for Trenton and Princeton	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Remarkable History Remarkably Told.	A better tale of daring exploits will be difficult to find, no matter if it's in the History section of the fiction section.  Mr. Ketchum can really tell the story, especially when he has such great material to work  with.<br />This book gives you the feel for not just the battle but the  campaign, the politics, and the impact that all the events at the end of  1775 had on all involved. It is hard for me to imagine that men can be so  committed to a cause that they can withstand the hardships that they did.   Mr. Ketchum gives you all that you need to understand this, feel this, and  to almost live pure patriotism.  A truely remarkable story what these men  did, and all for generations that they did not know.<br />Mr. Ketchum's  writing is of the highest quality, never boring, and wonderfully  instructive, without teaching or preaching.  This is my 2nd of his books,  and I am proud to say that I have his books.  You cannot go wrong reading  this book.  You will be entertained and taught at the same time. Once  again, I wish this was my text book at any level of education.<br />Thank you  sir for a great book. For all those who want a great historical read, this  is the book.  Read and enjoy!	2000-05-04
US	52558389	R296FGERSZI39V	0805060995	34649879	Decisive Day: The Battle for Bunker Hill	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Why Read Fiction...	when you can read well written, dramatic history that will keep you reading until your eyes give out. This is it right here.  Well told, wonderfully worded, and vibrant in it's imagery, this book is top notch. I  wish I had read this years ago. If only text books were written like this,  we'd have a world full of historians.<br />Mr. Ketchum tells a great story,  and backs it up with solid scholarship and documentation. Even the notes in  the back of the book are interesting. You first meet the people, Clinton,  Howe, etc., then get to the story, and what a glorius story it is. It feels  real, alive, and you are a part of it. I could almost smell the air it was  described so well.  Mr. Ketchum also treats the battle as the Decisive Day,  events lead to it and then from it, and the magnatude of the Bunker/Breed's  Hill Battle is truely felt, all the way to March 17, 1776 when the Brits  finally leave Boston.<br />Check this out: &quot;...two parallel lines of 14  boats in single file, loaded to the gunwales with scarlet-coated British  soldiers. Here was all the pageantry and color and drama of war in the 18th  century manner, the face of battle that caught at men's hearts and made  them see it as beautiful and majestic and terrible all at once.&quot; When  you get to this in the book, it will jump out at you.  You'll then  understand the greatness of this book.<br />Don't wait, get it now. 4 nights  and you'll be finished, and moved by it.	2000-01-14
US	52558389	R1VCQVFESHP6MN	1574880233	22903813	D-Day Normandy: The Story and the Photographs (American War Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	If A Picture is Worth a 1000 Words......	Photos and more photos, that's what you have in this book. There must be a thousand of them, but I didn't count them.<br />This book takes the reader by the hand, in a bit of elementary school field trip fashion, and literally  walks through Operation Overlord. The text is not over anyone's head, and  always relates to the photos. The photos then tell the story, along with  the captions which point out interesting, easy to overlook, details. It's  almost like reading three books at once, the text, the photos, and the  captions. But it's very educational and entertaining.<br />You'll see every  form of naval lading craft ever used. Planes, guns, ships, you name it and  they have a picture of it in this book. Allied personnel, and German  personnel, all called &quot;Antagonists&quot;, the title of the first  chapter. There's even a great picture of General Patton inspecting a P-51,  without a Helmet! <br />The book is wonderfully organized and laid out. It  reads very quickly, despite all the bouncing around you'll do between  pictures, captions, and text. Every photo is marked in the text at it's  proper location. When the author talks about Churchill, then there is a  note to look at the picture of Churchill. It's actually fun, if such a  grave subject can be fun.<br />Read, or look at, this book. It's amazing how  you'll begin to see the events, machines, people in a much clearer light.  The massiveness of the event will become clear, and the images will tell  you the story. If only all the D-Day photos were in one volume.....	2000-01-04
US	52558389	R1GU5VJKSTKSDU	0801862930	798034524	Duty, Honor, Country: A History of West Point	Books	3	23	28	N	N	If You're Ready to Go Back To School, Here's the 1st Text	I enjoyed school a lot. I read a lot and played a lot. This new re-issue of Mr. Ambroise's writing reminds me of those history text books that were so difficult to read, still good, and full of information, but hard to  read. This is not a reviting page turner like &quot;D-Day&quot; or  &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, but if you want to learn details of the  Academy, this is the source.<br />Written in 1965, it barely moves along. It  is very interesting to see where the author has come from. In the forward,  written by President Eisenhower, Mr. Ambroise is refered to as a  &quot;professor&quot;. AMEN! He has taught me a lot about West Point that I  never knew of, or would care to know about. The author deals with details  that I cannot imagine existing, never mind receiving is such detail. I have  to take my hat off to the research, and work Mr. Ambroise put in on this  book, but it's just not very entertaining like some of his others.<br />But,  if you want to learn about American military culture, Jacksonian politics,  and how Congress worked during the 19th Century, you got the right book.  The frustration of a Congress that cannot see beyond it's own nose is very  constant through the entire book. The Jacksonian era was wonderfully  handled, and very surprising. I actually enjoyed this chapter. A new world  opened for me. There are great pieces about Civil War personalities,  quotes, and the conflict of principals between the Regular vs. Volunteer  armies.<br />So, to quickly sum up. The book's not very exciting, so if that's  what you want, stay away. The book is very intelligent, will teach you a  lot, and is very, very detailed. If you want to learn something, then this  is the right choice. I'm still a fan Mr. Ambroise!	2000-01-04
US	52558389	R1YIWNLZN18RI9	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Homage to the Brits. Ambroise Does It Again	Yea, I agree, it's not D-Day or Citizen Soldiers, but it's a good book. Let's say a book of lesser strengths, not greater weaknesses.<br />Mr. Ambroise will always tell a great story, he can't help it. &quot;I don't  make heroes&quot; he said, &quot;I write about them&quot;. Enter John  Howard! Ambroise let's the reader learn a lot about the man, and the men,  that are assigned, eventually, to the mission named in the title. You'll  read a lot about the Brits training, and training, and training, then  you'll say as I did, &quot;I don't want to read about the Brits  training&quot;. But, when the book gets to the eventful evening of June 6,  the entire training sequences (as in the movie Rocky) make perfect sense. I  found myself totally understanding the situation, danger, and thoughts of  the attackers. Great words that give you the feel of the action, and even  the smell. It's not a book of fighting and battle, but of the men involved  in the fight. The fight is not the main thrust, it's people. Remember D-Day  and Citizen Soldiers, it's the people from those books you remember as well  as the events.<br />A fine short read of under 190 pages, a few nights in  front of the fireplace and you'll knock this one out. The shape of the book  bothered me, but I got over it. A very good book, it's of lesser strengths  then it's other family members. Stephen, you've done it again.<br />Final  words: John Howard will live on in your memory as a fine and brave man.   Thank him also for D-Day and it's aftermath. Darrel Zanick, you're good,  but you're no Steven Spielberg!  Get the book now, know the people, and  enjoy the time.	1999-12-21
US	52558389	R3FEU0SDQ9GMFC	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A.J. You Are The History Man.	Buy this book. Don't wait or make excuses. Get it right now and get ready to completely enjoy history that reads better then fiction. Meet Patriots that you've heard of, but never knew. Go to places that sound familiar and  learn the ground and the events. Get ready for pure entertainment in the  guise of History!  This book is tremendous! <br />A.J. gets to the heart of  things, and in no time. I find it hard to imagine that he can tell this  story in 560 some odd pages, and never get boring. His smart style reads  fast and easy. No deadly classroom lessons here friends. I enjoyed meeting  Hamilton, the 2 Adams boys, Benedict Arnold, and the Howe brothers. I never  thought that they were that interesting until this book. I enjoyed my  visits to Boston, Trenton, Princeton, and Yorktown. And poor Johnny  Burgeone, trudging through the woods of New York...<br />All are alive and  well, living in this book. Open the pages, read the words, meet the men and  visit the places. See George run (everywhere), and Ben wear his ratty old  hat in France. The book is just too good for words. Read it now, or always  wonder what you've missed.	1999-11-29
