US	52554838	R26KVPROZRPMFH	0380892847	717869804	Brave the Wild Wind (Wyoming-Western Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Nice Read	I really liked the beginning of this book... how it drew me in and kept me turning the pages.  It gave me the background I would need to understand why Jessie was the way she was. <br /> <br />Still, even with the background I was a bit turned off at just how hateful Jessie could be and sometimes for no real reason.  The hatred for her mother I understood, but her actions towards others sometimes seemed \\"over the top\\".  She came off as very cold.  If Johanna wanted her character to come off that way, she did a very good job of it.  Almost too good. <br /> <br />Chase was a great guy.  He withstood Jessie's moods much better than any normal person would.  Thankfully, Jessie did soften a bit by the middle of the book and the chemistry between them became more believable. <br /> <br />Although I found myself almost disgusted at Jessie at times, I did enjoy the story and grew to like her almost as much as I liked Chase.  Their story had a nice ending and left me wanting more.  I've just started the next book in the series and I don't think I am going to be disappointed.  All in all, this book was a great read and a page turner for sure.	2005-09-12
US	52554838	R24C8DBOJA5EGS	0380762609	916074303	All I Need Is You (Straton Family)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Eh... nice story	Nice story... nothing breathtaking or amazing about it.  I found Casey to be headstrong and spoiled... almost to the point of being a brat.  She did improve near the end though and redeem herself a bit.   <br /> <br />What can I say about Damian?  It took a long time for him to grow on me.  Its like his character didn't really develop into much until the middle of the book.  He seemed almost weak to me... with not much personality.  But as with Casey, he redeemed himself near the end of the story. <br /> <br />Their love story was sweet.  They certainly didn't have the chemistry that Casey's parents had.  And their developing relationship almost seemed secondary to their search for Damian's father's murderer.   <br /> <br />Slow start to the story, picked up in the middle and then slowed down again near the end.  There were a couple great scenes, one including some fun in the river, which helped keep my interest.  Overall a good book, but certainly not one I would read over and over again.	2005-09-11
US	52554838	R385I59T419U82	0380750848	245369029	A Heart So Wild	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Classic romance with a great plot!	Picking up this book to read, I had great expectations since it was a Johanna Lindsey.  And she definetely didn't disappoint.  The book started out great if a little graphic but it drew me in instantly. <br /> <br />The relationship between Courtney and Chandos was electric.  Their chemistry so perfect.  Chandos was the ultimate hero.  Is there anything he couldn't do?  Courtney was a lady through and though.  She was written very realistically for a lady of her time, struggling with the feelings Chandos created in her and also with allowing herself to give in to him. <br /> <br />The plot was great as well and made me turn page after page in anticipation of what would happen next.  I enjoyed reading about life in the west during that time period.  Ways of surviving the travel in Indian territory and the hardships of the vast empty land were truly an interesting read. <br /> <br />I'm all for a happy ending and Johanna aimed to please.  Never a boring moment.  Definetely worth the money and the time to read.  I'm reading its sequal now and hoping it will be as good.  Keeping fingers crossed.	2005-09-08
US	52554838	R2A8SCELW78HQ6	0671739727	635712327	Highland Velvet	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nothing lacking in second installment of velvet series...	I absolutely love reading series in which the story seems to go on throughout the books, never ending and just giving more and more.  I have fallen in love with the Montgomery brothers.  Each is so different, yet alike in some way.<br />I have to admit that I didn't find Bronwyn very likeable at first.  Stephen seemed to be so kind to her always and she flung his kind words back in face at every turn.  Not that I couldn't see why... I mean, she had been raised to hate Englishmen from birth and her own father had been murdered by Englishmen.  So the way she treated him was very realistic.  I probably wouldn't have found it believeable if she had fallen into his arms within days of their marriage, knowing the hatred she harbored within her for Englishmen.<br />I found Stephen to be the ultimate man... he understood her feelings and strived to make her accept him and fall in love with him.  He did everything he could to prove his love...  not many men would go to the lengths he did... and in the end he became a true Scot in every possible way.  <br />Bronwyn did win my heart at the end.  She softened and realized her love for Stephen... as I knew she would and it was truly a beautiful thing to see.  Love does conquer all...  I only wish that this would happen in real life more often.<br />Don't miss this one either... its a keeper!	2003-11-02
US	52554838	R1LYCLAUITW8J6	0671739751	335874452	Velvet Song	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another great Velvet book	Although I didn't find as much true passion in this novel, I enjoyed it a great deal.  The absolute romance that surrounded and enveloped the other two velvet books just wasn't as prominent in this one.  But the story was still very good... I loved hearing more about Gavin and Judith and Stephen and Bronwyn.  <br />I found Raine to be very tempermental towards Alyx which just didn't fit his personality from earlier books.  He never had a bad word to say to Judith, yet with Alyx, the woman he was supposed to adore... he could be very hateful.<br />I took it all in stride though and found that I didn't like Raine any less... I just accepted his temprement, knowing that he was going through hard times and dealing with it the best way he knew how.<br />I was a bit upset at the lack of concern over not seeing his child with Alyx for some time, but he redeemed himself near the end and I felt much better about that situation.  <br />Alyx loved Raine to the point of death... and I could relate to her need to help him even if he wouldn't help himself... no matter how angry he became.  The scene with Alyx and the King was touching and very well written... <br />All in all, its a good book... definetely worth a read since it is a big part of the Montgomery brothers story.	2003-11-02
US	52554838	R3U3NBN3SX2MVU	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Awesome beginning to the Montgomery saga	This book starts out with a scene that bothered me quite a bit... but then I think that is what the author intended... it certainly drew me in and drove me to read more... very strong beginning to the story of Judith and Gavin.  I love it when a book begins so wonderfully and intensely.<br />Gavin.... well he was handsome and his personality was very realistic for the period of time the book was written in.  He was frustrated with Judith but still willing to listen to her thoughts.  This made him even better in my eyes.  However, I didn't like his reaction to her knowledge of he and Alice in the garden on their wedding day.  I felt Judith had every right to be angry and he was angrier than she was because she had supposedly eavesdropped.  He seemed kind of simple when it came to women and their feelings... but towards the end of the book... he redeemed himself in my eyes.<br />Judith was one of my favourite heroines.  She was not raised as other girls had been and she had seen much pain and violence in her short life.  These experiences made her so strong and unwilling to back down from any man.  She was beautiful, but didn't seem to know it and that made her so endearing.<br />I really enjoyed watching these two fall in love, though they both frustrated me beyong belief at times.  I despised Alice and found myself looking forward to the day when she would &quot;get hers&quot;.  <br />All in all... its a great book that brings out every possible emotion you could imagine... Can't wait to read the next in the series... Highland Velvet... It's about Stephan, the next brother who is just as hotheaded, yet endearing as his older brother.  Should be a good read.	2003-10-22
US	52554838	R2GK6LPVZELLO1	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sweet fairytale	This was my third book by Teresa Medeiros and I was not at all disappointed!  She took a classic fairytale and made it into a beautiful love story of her own.  I loved that the heroine was not a slim wisp of a woman, but a woman of curves and whether she believed it or not, beauty.<br />The Dragon was the classic hero, very masculine... smelling of sandalwood and spice, meaning that the heroine would sense his presence always even before she saw his shadow in the darkness.  I found it so touching that she fell in love with the Dragon without ever having seen his face... she fell in love with him as a person first.  Such a romantic tale.<br />There is an undertone of such sadness to the story.  The dragon lived a very hard life after what happened that fateful night and it just pulls at the heartstrings.<br />Both lead characters had strong personalities which drew me into their story from the very beginning.  I grew to love them both and cheered them on towards their happy ending... Don't miss this.	2003-10-22
US	52554838	R24ONC34PXMJ7O	0380016974	212845954	Captive Bride	Books	2	12	14	N	N	eh...	I just finished collecting all of Johanna Lindsey's books and picked this one up to read despite the bad reviews because I wanted to read all her books, even the ones that are not as good.<br />And... well... I did find it to be a good story I guess... the plot had a lot of potential, BUT I read it through and didn't find myself caring much for any of the characters.  They had absolutely no depth.  <br />It was written almost in a rushed way with barely any communication, conversation or in-depth storylines.  It didn't make me laugh, cry or feel for Christina and Phillip in any way.  <br />I knew that I probably wouldn't love the book since it was one of her earlier works, but truth is that I didn't even like it a little bit.  I was just trying to get through it.<br />I hated Philip, even from what little I learned of him.  I really didn't understand his nastiness or what motivated him.  I didn't feel that he loved Christina, but only wanted her for his own selfish reasons, not caring in the least that he had taken her from everyone she loved and that she was grieving about this.<br />Christina hated Philip in the beginning and I just could not understand what on earth changed her feelings to love...  He didn't seem worthy of her love or her respect.  It didn't seem very realistic at all.<br />Anyway, I'm glad I read it because it is one of Johanna's and I will read the rest of her books because I know she has some great ones in the collection.  It is kinda hard to believe that the same author wrote this and Prisoner of My Desire... What a difference!	2003-10-13
US	52554838	R2UWXMBI7UW8AQ	0553294075	723129905	Heather and Velvet	Books	5	24	26	N	N	She made me believe in soulmates...	This is my second Teresa Medeiros novel and I wasn't disappointed!!  I just finished reading it and I'm still sitting here with a silly grin on my face.  This was a definete page turner!  I just had to know what was going to happen next.  The action never once stopped and never once was I bored or tempted to skim pages.<br />I absolutely loved the way Prudence slowly evolved from the prim and proper &quot;spinster&quot; who had been neglected and walked over all her life to the strong, beautiful woman she had been meant to be.  She blossomed so beautifully throughout the book.<br />But what struck me the most was how Sebastian saw the beauty she hid underneath the tight chignon and the heavy spectacles.  He knew almost immediately that she was the one meant for him and she and only she could invoke the magical and deeply stirring effect on him that love and only true love can create.<br />I came to believe that they were soul mates and I loved that no matter what happened to them, they were always inexplicably drawn back to each other.  They fought to overcome the odds and it was breathtaking to watch... because I felt as though I there beside Jamie watching it all unfold.<br />I loved the secondary characters.  They filled me full of tenderness or made me laugh out loud.  And in the end I truly cared about them almost as much as Prudence and Sebastian.  Of course there were a couple of characters that I despised... but it was fun to hate them.  The story was filled with laugh-out loud humour and I found myself giggling quietly as best I could so not to wake my husband as I read.  I was touched and moved by this book... <br />I cannot wait to read another one!!  I am so glad I found this author!  She is amazing.	2003-10-09
US	52554838	R198FMLJ472QJV	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	*Sigh*	There are so many reasons why this book touched me.  I loved seeing Jordon and Alex from Something Wonderful... I absolutely fell in love with Ian and found his unconditional love for Elizabeth to be a truly beautiful thing.  Judith painted Ian as such an awesome man... faults and all, that I could almost believe that a man such as him really does exist somewhere out there.<br />As always, the love scenes were tender, tender, tender and brought tears to my eyes.  Judith even took their first kiss and wrote it into such a magnificent moment that I was actually shaken when I finished reading it.  <br />I was hurt at Elizabeth's treatment of Ian after her brother came back for her... even angered, but in some ways I could understand why she did what she did.  He was, after all, her brother.  I guess when a story evokes such strong emotions in you, its gotta be an excellent book.<br />I don't know if Judith could top this book... this and A Kingdom of Dreams are my absolute favourites out of all her books... but the rest are amazing too.	2003-10-09
US	52554838	R2E5K1WBWRGQH8	0671744623	872452071	The Heiress	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Now this is the kinda Jude Deveraux novel I've always loved!	Although I've read some pretty bad reviews of Jude's newer novels, I still have faith in her ability.  She was the first author I ever read in the romance genre.  And she's the one who hooked me.  <br />Thankfully this book was more like what I'm used to with her writing.  I found it a bit slow in the beginning as I was meeting each of the characters and learning about their lives... but soon it picked up and I was quickly turning each page to see what happened next.<br />I liked the twist of Jamie thinking Frances was the Maidenhall  heiress instead of Axia.  It truly made the story an interesting read.  I found the end very touching for several different reasons.  The first one being what happens with the secondary characters and another being what happens with her father...  but though I enjoyed it, I felt that after all her father had put her through and how he was made to seem throughout the book... the ending seemed a little too smooth, quick and neatly tied up.  <br />Besides that, I really enjoyed the book and would recommend it as a great addition to your bookshelf.	2003-10-05
US	52554838	R2LNUBIX73P78W	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Speechless...	This was my first time reading Teresa Medeiros.  I've heard many times that she is a fantastic writer, but now that I've found it out for myself I'll always be on the look out for more of her books.<br />This book could be somewhat compared with a Cinderella story only ten times more wonderful.  Filled with delightful children, a &quot;take your breath away&quot; hero and a beautiful yet insecure woman... this book just has it all.<br />What struck me at the very beginning of this book was that at page 1 I was brought almost to tears and hurting for Willow and by page 12 I was laughing hysterically and already so involved in what was going on that I couldn't put the book down!  How often can you get that deeply into a book so soon?  <br />The story is woven with laugh out loud moments, tender love scenes and amazing children and secondary characters.  I love how easily Teresa Medeiros incorporates humour into her story.  I literally felt as though I were there watching the action.<br />This book was refreshing and different from the typical plot lines you find in many romance novels.  I have started another of her books and am finding it just as unique.  I'd recommend Charming the Prince to anyone...  I'm so glad I've found this author and I can't wait to collect all of her books!	2003-10-05
US	52554838	R2PRHVEKL11Z3K	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pretty good	This was my first try reading one of Gaelen Foley's books.  I've been wanting to for ages after reading such awesome reviews about her books.  So finally I bit the bullet and ordered it.  To be honest, I was expecting just a little more...<br />Maybe its my own fault, since it was the first book I picked up to read after reading Perfect by Judith McNaught... and I just don't think any book could compare after coming down off the high that book gave me.<br />My only real problem with the book was that I really couldn't get interested in the plot or the characters until about the middle of the story.  It just kinda seemed dull.  I mean it was ok reading but I kept putting it down and taking my time in picking it up again during the first half.<br />Thankfully, during the second half I was drawn in pretty deeply to Bel and Hawk's lives.  I did sigh at the complete and utter love they had for each other because it became so obvious, especially when they were apart for a time.  I could understand Hawk's dilemna and yet I wanted to scream at him to do what his heart was telling him to do.<br />The ending was heartwarming and beautiful and made up for the slow beginning.  Because of this, I do plan to read the sequels to this book... Lord of Fire and Lord of Ice.  These brothers and the rest were introduced in The Duke and I am kinda interested to see how their stories will go.  I'm a big fan of books that continue with the family line.  And I'm hoping to hear more about Bel and Hawk.<br />All in all... it was a good read and you'll be glad you took the time and paid the money to read it.	2003-10-03
US	52554838	R2ZG3M8LG43VID	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	10 stars if I could...	My friend had been begging me to read Perfect for months.  She told me it was the best book she had ever read and although I believed her I was wary of reading contemporary romance since historical has long been my favourite.<br />I finally did read it to her genuine surprise and happiness.  And I read it in one day, not being able to stop myself from turning the pages.  Completely full of action packed suspense, sad and touching moments and hysterical scenes at which I laughed until my sides hurt, this book took my breath away.<br />I have never fallen so in love with a man in any romance novel I have read.  It left me wishing that I could find a &quot;Zack&quot; of my own to love me the way he loved Julie.  He has it all... soft and tender yet cool and arrogant when he needs to be.  <br />Julie was the classic &quot;good girl&quot; who had tried to live her life perfectly in a subconcious effort to overcome the street-wise orphan she had once been.  I felt her pain and marveled at those moments when she gave him as good as she got.  She never failed to come back with a perfect comeback to his sometimes sarcastic comments... and he would suddenly see her smile and his resolve would break and he would burst into helpess laughter.<br />She had a way of making his emotions spin like a yo-yo.  She could turn him from complete fury to being completely flustered.<br />What I truly loved was the notion that they both felt something missing from their very different lives until the time they spent together... Then, suddenly the pieces of the puzzle came into place and they fit together perfectly.<br />This book never has a dull or boring moment and it has left me somehow yearning for another book as good as this one has been.  I am afraid I'll be sadly disappointed with whatever I read next because what on earth can equal or surpass Perfect?<br />All I know is that these fictional characters became very real to me and I applaud Judith for being able to take them and make them literally jump off the page and enter your life as though they are there in the same room with you.<br />The title of this book fits it well... PERFECT.	2003-09-23
US	52554838	R3HUU5YZ2NBICV	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Still Sighing...	How I wish that every romance novel I read could be as captivating as Judith McNaught's novels all seem to be.  It's such a disappointment to actually finish the book and be unable to read more about characters you've grown to love.<br />Of course in this case, Matt and Meredith appear in the sequel to Paradise called Perfect.  So I felt a bit better when I finished Paradise knowing that I would read more about them.<br />Rarely am I so drawn in and mesmorized by fictional characters.  These people became real to me and I honestly felt as though I was right there with them... feeling what they felt... and thoroughly falling in love with Matt myself.  Oh my God... he is the ultimate man.  Why on earth can't men like that really exist in the real world??<br />I melted when he finally realized the things he had believed all those years were lies because he so sweetly softened and became determined to keep Meredith as his own.  He truly believed they were meant for each other... soulmates.  Judith writes so beautifully that I believed it too!  I rooted for them from page one through to the end.<br />The only problem I had with this novel and it is a small one... is that the first bit of the book had about 2 chapters that were only about their businesses and nothing else.  Long paragraphs that stretched on forever droning on about their conference meetings and such.  I do understand it may have been benificial to the plot... but it was slow reading for me at that point.  Thankfully... the story picked up after those 2 chapters and I was captivated and engrossed from there on in.<br />Don't miss this book or the one after it... Perfect.  They are keepers!!	2003-09-23
US	52554838	R2HQD00WWFSZHJ	0380814714	78646061	So Speaks the Heart (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Loved the plot!	The plot of this story was amazing and for that reason I just couldn't put this book down.  As usual it was riddled with misunderstandings... the huge one being her status as a lady... <br />Also many surprises were included just when you would least expect them.  One in particular was very heartwarming and wonderful to read.  Brigitte was a true lady and full of strength... she was a perfect match to Rowland who struggled throughout the novel with his feelings for her and confusion over who she really was.<br />Another thing I loved was the constant action.  Never a boring moment and you could just feel how the characters felt as they fell in love.  The way Brigette tenderly cared for him and accepted his faults was so sweet.  And he tried so hard to be gentle with her even though he had never known kindess himself.<br />It's an awesome read.  Just what you would expect from Johanna Lindsey.	2003-09-07
US	52554838	R2Q5PMCYEZVCGE	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Judith does it yet again!	I was absolutely riveted by the storyline of this book.  Watching Whitney grow and fall in love with Clayton throughout the story was breathtaking.  I was in such suspense waiting for her realize her true feelings for him instead of Paul.  I never stopped hoping that she would realize who truly loved her.<br />And Clayton... oh wow... he was such a HUNK... like all of Judith's heroes.  The love scenes were tender and sweet, like always.  No one... and I mean NO ONE writes a love scene like Judith McNaught.  They are so tied up with emotion and tenderness that it just makes your heart heave with emotion.<br />Awesome!  That's is the one word that describes this book to a tee.	2003-09-07
US	52554838	R1GE8H0AX0GRDR	0380897393	277828479	When Love Awaits (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	She does it again!	Johanna Lindsey does it again!  Since I began to collect and read her books, I have yet to be disappointed in anything she has written.  Her books are so different from other authors out there and it is truly refreshing.<br />The story of Leonie and Rolfe is truly amazing.  Although Leonie's stubborness got to me at times... I still admire the strength and determination she showed in her marriage to Rolfe.  Rolfe seemed to be the perfect hero.  He had the strength and the gentleness that every woman craves.  He never gave up on gaining Leonie's love and affection.<br />The book was full of misunderstandings which of course made it all the more exciting to read.  It focuses more on their relationship with a little less action then some of her stories... but that's ok!  It was kind of refreshing.  Classic Lindsey!!<br />I've gotta have all her books... and I'll keep collecting 'till I do.  Don't miss this one.	2003-09-07
US	52554838	R2CPJW6FVW1HK4	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	5 stars of course...	What can I say?  The best as usual.  Jordon is the ultimate man!  Watching their love grow was amazing.  The love scenes were sizzling but not trashy as some can be and it was all intertwined with a beautiful and exciting love story.  Alex tries so hard to fit in with London society and it is touching to read.  It made me feel as though I were there watching everything unfold.  Don't miss this one!	2003-09-07
US	52554838	R29F9BFJ79QESU	0843941960	639322246	Tender Fury	Books	1	20	23	N	N	Romance?  Ha!  ...	This book was so trashy that I couldn't finish it.  I admit that I sure did try.  I muddled through the slop until I just wanted to scream from frustration.  In the end I skipped to the end just from sheer curiosity but it ultimately was a waste of my time. The reason I picked this book up was because I had read great reviews about Connie Mason's books.  But if this book is any indication of her writing style, then I guess I'll stay away. Ick.<br />There was not one bit of romance to speak of.  The \\"hero\\" was abusive, mean and hateful.  He kept a mistress throughout the book and I just don't understand how we are supposed to believe he loved Gabby when he was sleeping with this other woman in their very own bed.  Gabby went through every horror imaginable from rape to being sacrificed to a snake on an alter. Not to mention the fact that she slept with several men herself.  One of them... Rob, was more like the heroes I'm used to reading about and if Connie Mason had made Philippe more like him this book may have had a chance.  There is also a horrific scene in a brothel that made me feel sorry for Gabby yet I lost any shred of respect I had left for her.  And through it all, Philippe continued to treat her like dirt and blame her for everything he did wrong.  Why on earth these two claimed to love each other is a huge mystery to me because they traumatized and abused each other from beginning to end.  For truly amazing writing, try any of Judith McNaught's books.  But stay away from this one.  ...	2002-11-17
US	52554838	R9ZMM8VZJ8BOO	0061083984	12162872	Once a Knight: Good Knights #1	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Heartwarming, though a bit bland at times	I won't bore you with a description of the book's plot since its been done already in previous reviews.  This book has its good and bad points.  I have to admit I almost didn't finish it because the first half took me a week to get through.  It was extremely boring with very little action.  I just couldn't get interested in the characters.  But I hate to give up on a book so I kept going, albeit very slowly.  Things did pick up in the second half of the book and it became much more interesting with the overall mystery surrounding the story and the developing love between the main characters.<br />This book had a very unique storyline and that was refreshing.  There was never any major misunderstandings between the main characters and no great adventures but it was a heartwarming read.  I did grow to care about the people and really enjoyed the childrens role in the book.  The mystery of the book was very easy to guess in the second half but I enjoyed reading the conclusion anyway.  <br />The romance between Alisoun and David was nice but the sex scenes lacked something... and their relationship sure didn't sizzle like those in Judith McNaught's or Johanna Lindsey's books.  Maybe this was because the characters were different from the usual stereotypical hero and heroine.  Alisoun was cold and seemingly emotionless and David was past his prime and aging.  Oh, he was still handsome and full of honor, etc., but I like my heroes strong, able, and too hot for words.  David seemed to fall short of the mark and Alisoun just never really seemed to open up and let her love for him show.  <br />All in all, its a relaxing read for a cold winter's day.  I wouldn't advise you to go out and spend a lot on it but rather borrow it from the library since its not really one of those books you want to read over and over again.	2002-11-17
US	52554838	R19R3S844IK9KS	0671023578	793793081	Remembrance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AMAZING 5 Star Read	Remembrance.. ahhh.  What a truly beautiful story of a love that spans centuries.  Jude Deveraux has outdone herself with this book.  I finished it within one day.  I just could not seem to put it down.<br />Remembrance pulled from me such raw emotion that when I finished it I just sat there in stunned silence with tears streaming down my face.  Joy, jealousy, rage, sadness, hopelessness, love, hate... it was all there and more.  Within the first quarter of this book I had already been in tears at least twice and I know I must have sighed with longing for Hayden's soulmate right along with her at every page.<br />The plot has been outlined several times so I won't go into detail on that... just make a few points on why this book is a must read.  First, some have commented on the fact that Part one of this book with Hayden narrating was very boring.  I found it witty and humourous.  It was needed to give us an insight as to who Hayden is and has been since her soul's birth.  We needed to know her love for Jamie and be drawn into needing to know why she felt it so strongly.<br />I really enjoyed the first time travel back to Edwardian times.  I wanted to know more about Tavey and more about Catherine and why there was such hatred/love between them.  I was a little disppointed to be torn away from their story so quickly, but Part two drew me in immediately and kept me captivated.  I must admit that at first I was hoping Catherine and Tavey's story would be continued sooner than it was... but the story of Callie and Talis was beautiful and soon I was completely drawn in.  I felt pure rage for those who tried to hurt them and keep them apart.  When I read the end of their story, I used half a box of kleenex.. and had to wait a moment for it to completely sink in before I could continue on.<br />Next came Catherine and Tavey again.  With my newfound knowledge of their past and their amazing love, I couldn't wait to see what Hayden would do to cure their problem.  So thiswas one of my favourite parts of the book.  I smiled and sighed the whole way through Part three. <br />Lastly came Hayden and the book was wrapped up beautifully.  Very neatly actually.  Some have commented that it ended to neatly, but truthfully I wouldn't have wanted it any other way.  All in all, this book was amazing and I know it is going to stay in my mind for years to come.  When a book draws that much emotion from the reader, I am in awe of the author.  What a sign of brilliant writing.	2002-11-10
US	52554838	R3HDOOP1SHCJ8P	0380762587	921465515	You Belong to Me (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fun Read	As soon as I realized that Once a Princess had a sequel, I ran out and found this book as soon as possible.  And I wasn't disappointed.  I enjoyed it immensely.  I just love Johanna Lindsey's style of writing.<br />The story of Vasili and Alex was made so interesting by the way they were both trying to hard to turn each other off.  I laughed at so many scenes in which their plans backfired and they were drawn only closer to each other.  Alex was a heroine I could admire for her spunk, her stubborness and sheer determination.  She was the perfect match for such as Vasili.  He on the other hand was already on my nerves from Once a Princess.  I didn't like his arrogance in that book though I did understand why he acted that way.  So it took a little bit for me to be won over by him.  But not long.  After all, he *was* drop dead gorgeous.  And his true personality soon came shining through.  He was fiercely protective of Alex and when he finally realized his deep love for her, I just melted watching him show his soft side.<br />It was so much fun catching up with Stefan and Tanya, learning about what they've been up to.  Now I am just waiting for Serge and Lazar's stories.  They should definetely each have one.  Great book!  Give it a try.  But read Once a Princess first as its the first in the set.	2002-11-10
US	52554838	R1HL8BRL9VKDXC	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Quick and Fun Read	This was my first Julie Garwood experience and I finished her book quite satisfied.  I had read such great reviews about her books that I just had to try one out.  And I certainly wasn't disappointed.<br />The first thing I noticed about this book was the equal amount of dialogue vs. ongoing thoughts of the characters.  It was refreshing to get caught up in a great conversation without endless pages of characters inner thoughts getting in the way.  Some authors go on and on with thoughts and leave me wishing the characters would just speak for God's sake.  But then some books have so much dialogue with no inner thoughts that the characters seem flat or shallow.  I was impressed that this book was perfectly proportioned in this area.<br />The romance between Royce and Nicholaa was sweet and tender.  She was very touching to read about and watching Royce open his life and his heart to her was captivating.  It seemed that even when they had just met, their true love was there just beneath the surface waiting to bloom.  <br />I loved the part of the story surrounding Justin.  The gruff tenderness between he and Royce was a joy to see.  I loved watching Justin grow as a person and a soldier.  And I would very much love to see a sequel with his story.  It would be great to incorporate that with a conclusion to Thurston's story also.  I was left hanging there and wondering what would come of it.<br />The reason this is a 4 star read for me and not a 5?  I cried over Ulric and have simply not accepted Royce's decision concerning him.  That really bothered me and I wish Nicholaa had shown more emotion.  It only seemed to bother her for one night and then she was back to normal.  Somehow that didn't seem realistic after how close she had been to him.  I'm hoping a sequel will perhaps include a change there.<br />All in all, its worth a read.  I really did enjoy it and am anxious to read more works by Julie Garwood.	2002-11-04
US	52554838	R1LTG71UOUHPS5	0440217032	955518783	Desired	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A slow read for me...	This was my first VH book and I have mixed feelings about it. It actually took me about a week to read and usually I read a book within a couple of days if I really like it. If I can't put a book down, that's usually a great sign that its an exceptional book. I actually found it hard to keep picking this book up.<br />First, I did enjoy the historical aspect. The plot was very interesting and packed with action. Unfortunately I found myself more interested in the wars being fought and in the lives of the knights and royals than I did the actual romantic couple. This kept me reading, as well as the fact that I am stubborn and hate to start a book and not finish it.<br />I picked this book up for the romance and did not find what I wanted. Sure there was lots of earthshattering sex, but the love between them was not believable. Their characters were too perfect... Neither of them had a flaw... and I think that flaws make the characters endearing and believable. While I don't mind a bit of magic in a book if used tactfully, it just didn't seem to add much to the story here.<br />The romance between Joan and Edward was lovely and though it was intended as a secondary relationship, they were mentioned more than the lead characters and had more chemistry and love between them. I looked forward to reading about their story more than Christian and Brianna's. But truth is that I really didn't *care* about these people or what happened to them. It was basically a passing interest as I tried to get through the book.<br />Virginia Henley has a nice writing style and she sure knows her history (her books follow it as it really happened), but somehow the depth of her characters felt lacking to me. I won't say I'll never read another of her books, since she likely has better books out there. But definetely not for awhile as I have several others I've been waiting to read written by authors I'm sure of.	2002-10-29
US	52554838	R1JDKZ4R64Z41P	0671737627	591607741	Once and Always (The Sequels series)	Books	5	20	25	N	N	5 stars... what else??	As usual, Judith McNaught is worthy of 5 stars writing yet another awesome book!  I read this in one day, truly not able to put it down once.  The house could have fallen down around me and still I would have sat there with a silly grin on my face, reading away.<br />Victoria is thrust as a suddenly orphaned beauty into the home of a distant relative with a very frightening repuation.  Though afraid and homesick, she sees through his rockhard exterior to the saddened and lonely man inside and offers him a love like no other.  And oh my God... no one can tell a story like JM!!<br />These characters came alive before my eyes from page one.  Victoria was amazing.  In the midst of all the snobby London ladies, she appeared so sweet and refreshing and I just wanted to shout at Jason to open his eyes and trust her!  And Jason was so afraid to love again... so hurt from his horrid past yet very protective of this young girl who could make him laugh, ingnite desire deep within him and even cause him to engage in a duel causing him to be shot by a tree (he he... very funny).<br />The plot was amazing and the characters deep, complex people you could care about.  Jason had thought Victoria to be a gentle, courageous, spirited angel... and he was oh so right.  She was the perfect heroine and the perfect match for a man such as Jason... and though he was difficult and arrogant throughout much of the book it was plain to see the hurt and need for love inside him.  Not to mention the fact that he was just plain *yummy*.  Strong yet gentle leading men are definetely the best.<br />If you haven't read this book, I recommend it highly.  And then do yourself a favour and read the rest of Judith McNaught's books, starting with A Kingdom of Dreams (breathtaking). I bought her entire collection and they are reserved a permanent spot on my bookshelf.	2002-10-29
US	52554838	R1BPAXJNF0DINM	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Amazing novel of danger, desire and true love!	I don't think I've ever read a book wherein the author has woven her words together so magically.  KW is an exceptionally gifted writer.  This story begins on a cold misty night in London when a desperate young woman enters into a bargain with a man who is destined to hang.  Believing him a total wretch she sees this bargain serves her own good and she believes it will only hold her until he dies, yet she will receive all she could want from it.  But as fate would have it, true love somehow endures and their beautiful tale really begins once we are spirited to Los Camellos, a tropical island owned by Shanna's father.<br />Slowly we see Shanna's cool disposition melt under Ruark's loving and tender care.  I could go on and tell you all about the rest of this exotic love story, but I don't want to ruin it for you.  I'll just say that I fell in love with the characters in this novel, and not just the main ones.  I felt I knew each of them with their own distinct personalities, not only that... I cared for them.  I laughed with them, cried with them and I truly felt as though I was watching it all unfold.<br />The plot was fasinating and the romance and sensuality in this book was steaming!  This book could make you feel that true, eternal love really does exist!  Plus, the writing was so beautiful, the descriptions so vivid... there were times tears just came to my eyes at the way their feelings were described for each other.  I think I felt every possible emotion while reading this book and for that reason I have put it in the top 3 favourite books I have ever read!  When a book can pull raw emotion out of you and leave you reeling with the feeling that you have experienced what the characters have... well then it is an extrordinary book!  Shanna is worth a permanent spot on any readers bookshelf.  A true classic.	2002-10-28
US	52554838	RG1MISHBYPUQI	0380752999	8452229	Defy Not the Heart	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exciting story of love meant to be	J. Lindsey has quickly become added to my top 5 favourite authors.  This book is another Lindsey great!  What a refreshing change to open a book and immediately be drawn in by this tiny spirit of a woman fighting to save her own Castle!  Reina was the ultimate heroine... down to earth, witty, comical and brave.  No frail little mouse here... as huge and domineering as Ranulf could be, she always stood up to him, making me laugh at her quick wit every time.  Also refreshing was how Ranulf was so inexperienced in pleasing a woman and how he wanted to learn how to make it a beautiful experience for her also.  Each character had flaws but they made you care more deeply for them.  This book is an example of how great romance is written and written well.  Try out Prisoner of My Desire too!  Its another awesome book by JL.	2002-10-28
US	52554838	RXDH7QYJ75L4N	0380756250	143694847	Once a Princess (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Johanna Lindsay book added to my favorites...	I'm growing to love JL's writing more with each book I read.  I definitely enjoyed this book, reading it in a day and half.  I just couldn't put it down.  Stefan was a hero to swoon over (love those handsomely dark and intense men, yummy) and Tanya was so headstrong and brave.  I really liked her.  She wasn't the typical weepy, fragile heroine.  She tried to escape several times knowing her chances of making it were slim, and she deliberately went against Stefan's wishes more than once even knowing the consequences.  I loved that about her!  No man was going to tell her what to do... <br />Stefan and Tanya had me in stitches at times.  The chemistry between them was incredibly strong and watching them fall in love was amazing.  I could actually feel why each of them was growing to love the other more... I've read books in which the heroine loves the hero suddenly after hating him throughout the book and there just seems to be no reason for her sudden adoration.  Not so in Once a Princess.<br />Tanya's reaction at discovering she was a princess after how she was raised was very believable and I liked that.  Stefan's friends each had endearing traits that truly added depth to this book.  I felt I knew each character in this book and that to me is a sign of great writing.<br />This one will be staying on my bookshelf and in my list of favorites...  A great read!	2002-10-09
US	52554838	R3U2S54KP6VR9Y	0671014196	624491085	The Summerhouse	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A book you'll think about long after you finish it...	I love JD and I own almost all of her books.  I faithfully read each one she writes because she was the first romance author I read and I'll always be a loyal fan.  This book was so different from her usual works, but just as good.  This story takes you into the minds and hearts of 3 women whose lives take very different turns after meeting for a few short hours on their birthdays which they share.  Each woman goes on to make bad choices in her life.  Years later when the 3 meet in a Maine summerhouse for a weekend, they discuss their lives and desperately wish they could go back and change things.<br />Here JD weaves her storytelling magic and we are taken into a world where dreams do come true and people get second chances.  We see these women drastically change their lives by going back in time to any 3 weeks in their lives that they want.  The touch of magic in the book is enchanting... and while unbelievable, it is so refreshing because who of us wouldn't want to go back just once and change something we did in our lives and make it better?<br />This is a good read and a great addition to your bookshelf!	2002-10-07
US	52554838	R1BETFUUGDEJ3C	0380400634	645616910	The Enchanted Land (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not her usual, but it sure draws you in!	This book was written in a different style than Jude's other novels, being that is was written early in her career (1978).  I didn't think I was going to like it at first just because it took me 50 or so pages to really get into it.  This may have been because it was the type of plot that I am not used to with Jude.  Although the different writing style actually became very refreshing to me the further I read.<BR>I found myself falling in love with the characters as they grew more complex and deep throughout the book.  By the time the book ended, I was very disappointed that it was over and wanted to know how their lives were continuing.  A sequel to this book would actually make me very happy.  :-)<BR>What I didn't like was the large amount of time they were apart in this book.  I couldn't stop turning pages just to see when they would be together again.  What I enjoy most about a good romance is the ongoing relationship leading up to falling in love... and I like them to be together dealing with their feelings.  Of course a small separation makes it interesting, but not one of 2 or more years when they also happen to hate each other.  I do admit that their reunion was all the more sweet because of that looong separation and the tenderness between Seth and his son when he discovered Adam was his was so special.  <BR>Definetely A+ for the ... chemistry and true love that oozes from this book.  And great plot throughout!  Though not classic Jude, its a great read and one that keeps you thinking about the characters long after the story is over.	2002-09-30
US	52554838	R1ULNCCERRRRBA	0671739786	843321772	River Lady	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Classic Jude!  Love it!	What an awesome book!  I loved the courage and determination she showed no matter what was thrown at her.  I really disliked Wesley at first and couldn't see why he hated so very much since it was his doing that she was pregnant.  He was such a jerk to her even when she worked so hard to become a &quot;lady&quot; for him.  It was very intersting to watch him grow into a better man as time went on.  I did warm up to him and found him actually quite comical throughout the book.  The scene with the mud was hilarious!!<br />There was a lot of action and a great plot throughout the book which kept me interested to the very end.  I did find the book ended rather quickly and left me wanted to know more about where their lives would go.  <br />This is the third book in a trilogy.  I am extremely anxious to read the other two: Lost Lady and Counterfeit Lady.  Regan and Nicole had appearances in this book and I want to know more about their stories.<br />If your looking for classic Jude at her best, then you've found it with this book!	2002-09-30
US	52554838	RNW3QH5Y5KHQ6	0380756277	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sexy & Breathtaking with lots of action!	I really enjoyed Prisoner of My Desire.  The book draws you in from the first, never allowing you to put it down.  I found that every new chapter kept me wanting more.  Never have I disliked the hero so much at the first of a book and then fallen so \\"in love\\" with him at the end.  <br />This is my first Johanna Lindsay novel and I am very impressed.  Rowena has an extremely tough go of it throughout her life, but her courage and strength to go on in the face of such horrific circumstances is amazing.  Though Warrick seems so terrifying in the beginning, she does not cower, she accepts her fate.  Watching Warrick slowly turn from the monster bent on revenge against Rowena to a gentle man falling in love with her was breathtaking!  There was plenty of action and a great plot, not to mention some pretty awesome love scenes between these two.  Definetely a must read.	2002-09-30
US	52554838	R1BZKEU3XHSQSO	0671743848	507022327	The Temptress (Montgomery/Taggert)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Not like her others, but still a good read	I have to say that when I first began to read this book, I almost immediately took a dislike to it.  I am so used to the usual way that Jude writes and this was not it.  Tynan and Chris have this amazing heat when he abducts her.  She almost seems to enjoy his touching and caressing... That just doesn't seem realistic to me.  During an abduction fear or terror would be more seemly.  The characters sometimes didn't seem real and there was really not too much romance in the book.  I never sensed true sexual tension between them or much love either.  It had a good story plot though where action is concerned.  It was a quick and easy read and I did like the ending.  I'm a huge fan of Jude Deveraux's and I have never rated her below a 4... but this book really is more of a 3 to me.  For classic Jude, check out her other books first such as The Princess, The Conquest, Knight in Shining Armor, etc.  This one might discourage you from reading more of her.	2002-09-17
US	52554838	R3R2CE5PMUAU41	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Amazing!!  Judith, your my new fav author!	This was the first Judith McNaught book I read and WOW is all I have to say.  I love it!  This book moved me to tears... seriously I was sobbing at parts and then Judith would spin her magic and I'd be laughing hysterically at the pure comical genus she has woven into this book!  Royce truely made me swoon, still does, as I can't stop thinking about him yet.  He's such a softie with an extremely tough exterior.  Jennifer is strong and courageous and watching these two fall deeply in love was breathtaking!  The last battle scene took my breath away.  What AMAZING writing.  And the love scenes were lusty, yet oh so so tender.  I can't wait to read another of Judith's books... and another and another (you get the idea)  Don't MISS this book.  You'll still be thinking about it long after you've finished it.	2002-09-16
US	52554838	RGI04XNYSX6J5	1570960224	645616910	The Enchanted Land (Romance Alive)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Slow start.... but great and classic finish!	Ok... I must admit that when I first began reading this book, I was a bit bored and I only continued because of sheer stubborness and a bit of curiosity.  Also I am a HUGE fan of Jude Deveraux and I wanted to give it a chance.  I had just read &quot;River Lady&quot; by Jude and this book just seemed to be totally different from her usual style (ei. the characters were a bit unbelievable, the story beginning a bit shallow and uninteresting)... <br />That said... once I got 100 pages or so into the book, the characters came alive to me, I cared what happened to them and I began to really enjoy the book!  These characters were soul mates and this book showed how that kind of love just never dies.  I did not like the lengthy separation of Seth and Morgan and found myself constantly hoping to see them back together.  There were parts of the books that made me laugh so hard and then passages that had me in tears.  The descriptions of the land and how they lived were excellent and made me feel like I was there.<br />This was one of Jude's first novels and so shows a different style of writing than the books that truly made her famous, but in the end I came away not wanting the story to be over.  I enjoyed this book very much.  Please give it a try.  It'll be worth the slow beginning.	2002-09-10
US	52554838	R6SWH1PQH00GI	0671739786	843321772	River Lady	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic Jude Deveraux!	This book was classic Jude and I loved it!  I hadn't read the first two books to this series before I read River Lady and now I can't wait to get my hands on them and learn about Nicole and Clay's story and Travis and Regan's in Lost Lady and Counterfeit Lady!<br />Wesley could definetely be a jerk and at times I wanted to just kick him for his blindess... but he made me fall in love with him in the second half of the book.  And Leah was the perfect heroine... turning her life around and being so strong and courageous.  A perfect match for Wesley.  A true heart warmer.  I couldn't put the book down!	2002-09-10
