US	52552835	R1UXFS7IMSAMS8	0743237943	417677554	Dixie Lullaby	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	People can you hear it? A song is in the Air!	This book by music writer Mark Kemp is hard to categorize.  It is part memoir, part cultural and social history and partly a history of popular music.  The author manages to tie the various threads together into a cohesive whole and has written a fascinating book.  <br /> <br /> Kemp was born in South Carolina in 1960 and came to outside awareness just as the civil rights movement kicked into the highest gear and the old Jim Crow order of the South was breaking down.  Kemp had the good fortune to be born to freethinking progressive parents who did not raise him in the atmosphere of invidious racism that characterized the life of so many other southerners of that time.  The book really begins with the assassination of Martin Luther King in 1968.  Prior to that event, white musicians backed many of the great black soul and rhythm and blues singers.  After King was killed, many blacks felt they could no longer work with either white musicians or white owned music companies.  As Kemp points out, the book is not about the fascinating story of black music in the south but of white music.  In the year 2005, it is difficult for one who did not live through it, to appreciate what the reputation of the South was in 1969.  Even its own young considered the South backwards and indeed, \\"redneck\\".  As for music, white southern music meant either hillbilly boogie or country western.  Southerners did not perform rock music in an indigenous style and those from the South who desired to make it in popular music left for either California or New York and dropped their Southern roots, usually in embarrassment. <br /> <br />This all changed when a man named Phil Walden, former manager for Otis Redding decided to start his own label, which became the fabled Capricorn Records.  Rather than create a house band to back up studio owned singers, as with the Muscle Shoals studio, Walden decided to back a hot young guitarist from Florida named Duane Allman who had gained a reputation as a hot studio slide player and was looking to create his own band.  Duane's band was originally supposed to be a power trio but ultimately consisted of six young men, one of them a black drummer, another his brother Gregg, a keyboardist and incredibly soulful blues singer.  When Walden heard the debut of the \\"Allman Brothers Band\\" he knew he had found something special and backed the band out of his own pocket as they struggled to make it. <br /> <br />After describing the creation of the Allman Brothers Band, Kemp shifts back to his own story. In 1970, the ten years old author was dedicated to the blues sound of the Rolling Stones, having no idea that the Stone's sound was native to his own home region.  When he hears the Allman Brothers Band in his sister's car, he, like thousands of other young Southerners, is instantly smitten.  The Allmans' style was a unique blending of all native American sounds, with plenty of blues, soul, pure improvisational jazz and driving rock thrown into the mix.  Not rednecks at all, the Allmans were more like southern hippies, singing \\"People Can you feel it?  Love is everywhere!\\" Kemp claims that Gregg Allman sang with the sadness of the South.  But Lynyrd Skynyrd rocked with righteous anger and extreme Southern pride.  After the decline of the Allman's post-1973, came the rise of Southern \\"redneck rock\\" rockers, like Skynyrd and Molly Hatchett who made no apolgies for who they were or where they were from and who played a crunching brand of boogie rock, very different from that of the Allman Brothers Band.   As the book continues, Kemp varies between a history of the music of the South and his own personal story in which he grows up, becomes a \\"head\\" in high school, rejects Southern music, moves north, develops a drug problem lands and loses his dream job at Rolling Stone and becomes ashamed of his Southern heritage.  All the while he parallels this story with that of the musicians and the individuals he interviewed for this book includingCharlie Daniels, Warren Haynes of the Allman Brothers Band and Gov't Mule and so many others.  The book really covers a large period of cultural history, more than thirty years, and a lot about Kemp's own life in a relatively few pages.  And yet the book holds together surprisingly well.  It really is a great read and anyone reading it will learn a little about what it was like to grow up a rock and roll fan in the new South of the 1970's.  I highly recommend it.   <br />	2005-09-13
US	52552835	RGWI51DZ9XQ3X	0316294527	918530567	Midnight Riders: The Story of the Allman Brothers Band	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Tragedy, Triumph and Great Great Music	The Allman Brothers Band is a unique entity in the history of rock music.  Neither a \\"southern\\" group nor a pure blues band, the Allmans used incredible instrumental virtuosity and tremendous inter-band synergy to create a wholly unique sound, a mixture of all indigenous American styles from pure blues to jazz to R & B, hard rock and gospel.  Led by founder guitar genius Duane Allman, the band's two guitar attack with a two drummer driving rhythm section and brother Gregg Allman's stupendous blues growl, this band for a period of three years was the greatest and most innovative band in American history.  During that period the band and its extended family lived a unique \\"hippy\\" lifestyle in a rented house in Macon where many of their greatest songs were written.  Just three years after they began, while the band was in the midst of recording its breathrough album \\"Eat a Peach\\", founder and spiritual leader Duane Allman was killed at 24 in a senseless motorcycle accident.  The band elected to go on, which in and of itself is almost unheard of.  Then a year later, bassist Berry Oakley was killed in the same manner.  Still the band went on but the magic was lost and soon the music was as well.  The band broke up but got back together in the late seventies for a less than steller period. Then they broke up again and seemed to be largely forgotten.  The release of a box set in 1989 prompted a reunion tour but the addition of guitarist Warren Haynes led to the complete revival of the band in the 90's as a popular jam band in the mold of the Grateful Dead.  The story of this band, its tragedies and its triumphs is told in this very interesting and enjoyable book.  It is all here, the music, the drugs the debauchery, the raging temper of Dickey Betts, the well-known descent of Gregg Allman from brilliant rock musician to People Magazine regular husband of Cher, Gregg's testimony at a Macon drug trial that sent friend Scooter Herring to prison.  But this book is not an expose.  Nothing bad is revealed that was not known already.  And Freeman is a real fan and admirer of the band.  Many interesting tidbits are here, like Gregg's shooting himself to get out of the draft and Duane's messianic hold over the studio musicians he recorded with.<br /><br />I am aware that members of the ABB themselves are not fond of this book.  They think it does not do justice to the true pathos of the story, reading more like an extended journalism piece than a real biography.  And that may be so.  There is surely room for a major major biography of this fascinating band but few are out there.  There is nothing patently false in Midnight Riders.  It simply reveals the warts on these great men.  It is no hatchet job.  For example, it is commonly believed that Berry Oakley went into a major decline after Duane Allman's death, that he never really got over it.  This is reported in the book.  Berry's sister, Candace, however, takes issue with this portrayal of her brother's final year and her rebuttal is in the book as well.  So while it may be journalism rather than true artistic biography, for now, those who want to know the story of the Allman Brothers Band should read this book.	2005-08-02
US	52552835	R18GSWXQQ2RHBA	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love, Loss Betrayal and Redemption in Afghanistan	Every now and then a novel comes along that is both a work of literature and popularly accessible.  The Kite Runner is such a novel.  The plot concerns the childhood and relationship of two Afghani boys who grew up as best friends in the same household in pre-Soviet invaded Kabul.  The narrator, Amir is a Pashtan, from the privileged class, born to rule whose father is a respected man of wealth.  His friend Hassan is a Hazara and a Shiite Muslim, born to serve, existing at the sufferance of a liberal monarchy.  Ultimately, Amir and his father are forced to flee to the United States and Amir grows up to become a writer.  But the events of the second half of the novel, which take place in front of the backdrop of the horror of the Afghan Civil War and the totalitarian Taliban regime, are set in motion by a series of choices made by Amir during his childhood relationship with Hassan.  The story, as narrated by Amir, is filled with a constant sense of both foreboding and fatalism.  The reader is aware at all times that this story is being told many years later by an adult Amir and that things will have happened to all the characters in the book that are both a result of the uncontrollable geo-political events that we know are coming and also as a result of the actions of Amir himself. <br /> <br />Like all good literature, what makes this novel great and what drives it is the internal growth of the character of Amir.  He is a damaged man whose own character flaws threaten to bring him down.  What's more, he is well aware of this.  Since Amir is portrayed as a successful novelist, his own insights into his character flaws, continually interjected throughout the story, are believable.  Amir the novelist, like Khaled Hosseini, the actual author of this book, has an excellent insight into the human condition, the pride and the shame that drive people to acts with irrevocable consequences.  Mr. Hosseini is a writer with a good deal of talent and a great understanding of theuniversal human condition.  Despite its setting in Afghanistan and the American Afghani community, the characters created by this novel are universal and any reader will relate to them.  <br /> <br />I will add that the novel seems to avoid the flaws of many books dealing with foreign characters.  The language is in no way stilted or stylized and it a fast paced book easy to get through and a pleasure to read.  There are scenes of great pathos and emotion.  No words seem wasted.  This book will both make you feel and make you think.  And as an added bonus, will teach the reader a great deal about the sad plight of Afghanistan.  It is not to be missed. <br />	2005-05-02
US	52552835	RQRQDLOMUJ58H	0802138918	186377687	Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Tangled Up in Dylan!	There are many biographies of Bob Dylan as well as a number of analyses of his music.  None really do a complete job of capturing the man, not even Dylan's own memoir \\"Chronicles-Volume One.\\"  Some people are full-fledged members of the cult of Dylan.  They attach extreme significance to every word uttered from his mouth.  Every action he takes is fraught with meaning.  I don't feel this way but I do appreciate the greatness of his music and his incredible importance to the development of rock music as we know it today.   <br /> <br />Down the Highway is an interesting book filled with vital information.  I learned many things I did not know before, things Dylan simply will not talk about.  Indeed, he did not speak to the author of this book.  The book is chock full of information on Dylan's formative years, his early girl friends from Minnesota, Echo Halstrom and Bonnie Beecher, his relationship with his parents and brother and his relationships throughout life.  I also learned a good deal about Dylan's recent years.  One thing that is fairly neglected, considering who he is, is the music.  The book concentrates on his life and not on his songs.  This is understandable since the book is lengthy as it is.  There are other sources to examine the songs in detail. <br /> <br />But all the seminal events are here, the dramatic break with the folk community in 1965, the mysterious motorcycle relationship in 1967, the retreat to Woodstock and recording with the Band, the reclaiming of greatness with \\"Blood on the Tracks\\", the breakup of his marriage to Sara, the \\"born again\\" phase and on and on. The book does not whitewash his considerable flaws including his tendency to treat people around him like dirt.  His treatment of Joan Baez, throughout, is particularly shabby.  His womanizing ways are also paramount.  It is unfortunate that Dylan himself, and a number of the people closest to him, did not cooperate and give interviews for this book.  Nevertheless, hundreds of menand women, many who knew Dylan well and many who were present at the seminal events depicted, did cooperate.  This makes for an interesting and engaging book and there are surely some facts revealed, such as Dylan's secret second marriage and the adult lives of his children that many will not be aware of.  Therefore, I recommend it.  For those interested specifically in Dylan's music, there are other sources.     <br />	2005-04-29
US	52552835	R2G4EXBPHRPSJM	006008118X	176161459	Mr. Lincoln's Wars: A Novel in Thirteen Stories	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Moving and Literary look at the Civil War and its Consequenc	I enjoyed this little book a good deal.  Basically it consists of 13 short stories all revolving around Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War told from assorted points of view including ordinary soldiers, Lincoln, Mary Todd Lincoln and John Wilkes Booth.  Like all good literary fiction, the point of the stories is not so much to describe events as to show the impact of those events on the protagonists.  We see how Lincoln and his wife are affected by the tragedy of the death of their son, the demons that drove Booth to murder, the way in which war brutalizes the ordinary soldier.  Like all good historical fiction, these stories bring characters of the 19th century to life in a realistic way.  My only quibble with the book is with the portrayal of Lincoln.  Very little is known about Lincoln's inner most thoughts.  Although a most jocular man, he was actually somewhat closed and few of his friends or associates could genuinely say they knew him well.  That is why Gore Vidal, in his great novel \\"Lincoln\\" gets inside the head of the people around the president but not Lincoln himself.    There is nothing wrong with a modern writer making assumptions about the thoughts of a historical character in a work of fiction.  But a number of the things Braver reveals about Lincoln are jarring and some are false.  For example, Lincoln was known to never drink liquor, yet several of the stories portray Lincoln as having been a drinker in his youth and even taking a drink in the White House as president.  This simply didn't ring true to me.  And although there is no real evidence of Lincoln's sexual thoughts and feelings, I still found it jarring to see the specific, if not graphic portrayal of an historical figure's sex life, particularly when that figure chose to keep his sexual life to himself.  In one scene Lincoln remembers the smell of Anne Rutledge's neck.  There is no evidence that he was ever in a position to smell her neck although it is generally accepted that he loved the doomed girl who died so young.  <br /> <br />Nevertheless, these quibbles do not much diminish the overall quality of this work.  The stories are by and large moving and provocative and guaranteed to make the reader think about profound things.  Yet the prose style is light and breezy and flows beautifully from page to page.  I recommend it.  <br />	2005-04-12
US	52552835	R23YIVYX7F6KIU	0743254686	98660942	We Are Lincoln Men: Abraham Lincoln and His Friends	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lincoln's Friendships	Abraham Lincoln has always been and remains one of the most compelling figures in American history.  His rise to greatness seems so unlikely, his personality so different from what one expects from an American president and yet his importance to history is so vast that historians have sought to understand him ever since his murder in 1865.  David Herbert Donald is one of the finest living Lincoln scholars and he has written numerous books on his subject.  In this one, he focuses on an area previously neglected, Lincoln's friendships.  In chronological order, Donald looks at the important relationships in Lincoln's life, outside of his family.  Lincoln's first important friend was Joshua Speed, whom he befriended on his arrival in Springfield.  Lincoln and Speed shared a single room (indeed a single bed) for years as young bachelors and without question Speed was Lincoln's most intimate friend, one of the only people to whom young Lincoln could truly open up.  After both men married and Speed moved to Kentucky, the friends grew apart and Speed had little to do with Lincoln in the 1850's when the men came to opposing political views regarding slavery. <br /> <br />Donald makes it clear that while Lincoln had other friends, none truly knew or understood him.  Indeed, his law partner of 17 years, Billy Herndon spent the years after Lincoln's death trying to put together a biography by interviewing everyone who knew Lincoln.  Lincoln's final important friendships were with Alexander Seward, his Secretary of State, who grew to admire Lincoln deeply and his young personal secretaries John Nicolay and John Hay, who not only toiled tirelessly for him but gave him solace and helped assuage his loneliness in the White House. <br /> <br />In his exploration of Lincoln's friendships, Donald has no specific point to make.  He just writes interesting history.  But, nevertheless, what emerges is a portrait of a man with a zest for life who loved a good story and told endless jokesbut who was also morose, melancholy and mysterious, even to those who knew him best.  Lincoln's friends may have cared deeply for him.  It will always be unclear just how much Lincoln really cared for them.  This is a fine little book and anyone interested in the life of Lincoln should read it. <br />	2005-02-14
US	52552835	RWJ6MJXBG84D	0743228154	819450417	Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Enigmatic Yet Strangely Interesting	Bob Dylan is one of the most enigmatic figures in the history of popular music.  For a man with such a canon of work and so many decades of fame, surprisingly little is known about him.  Little or nothing is known about his feelings, his own views of things etc.  Actions of his life are always studied meticulously by \\"Dylanologists.\\"  There is a hunger to learn the views and memories of one of the crown princes of the rock and roll era.  Now Dylan has written volume one of an \\"autobiography\\".  Fans expecting a chronicle of Bob Dylan's life are bound to be disappointed by this book for it is hardly that.  It is not a chronicle of his life but rather a limited chronicle of his impressions during two key points in his life, his arrival in and first year in New York   and a planned comeback at some point during the eighties.  (The years are never stated.  I believe he arrived in New York in 1960 or 1961.)  The section in which he discusses the planned comeback album and tour comes smack in the middle of the book and is sandwiched by two sections dealing with the year of his arrival.  I found the first and third parts of the book interesting and disjointed.  Dylan's prose style is humorously overwrought and dramatic.  He often riffs and goes off on tangents, which are sometimes enjoyable and sometimes frustrating.  We learn a good deal about such disparate characters as Woodie Guthrie, Tiny Tim, Pete Maravich, Archibald Macleish  and others.  We learn very little about his personal life.  He mentions his wife in the book's middle section but never mentions either her name or the name of any of his children.  He just refers to her as \\"my wife.\\"  It will certainly be impossible to enjoy this book without a working knowledge of Dylan's life and career.  Again, I think the book is interesting and many will enjoy it.  But it lacks a linear structure and could have used massive editing.  I don't know why Dylan chose to write in this way.  His life and his thoughts are certainly interesting enough that a traditional memoir would have been quite riveting.  I recommend it but with the reservations noted above.	2005-01-20
US	52552835	R3LD1G2B8F7Z1V	0316734519	128562699	Downtown: My Manhattan	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Native's Ode to the City He Loves!	Downtown <br /> <br />New York is such a remarkable city with such a great history.  Perhaps, therefore, its history can only be chronicled by a native with Big Apple blood running through his veins.  Pete Hamill is such a man.  Born and raised in Brooklyn, journalist/writer Hamill, in his simple yet poetic style chronicles the life and times of Manhattan, the city he loves and in which he has spent his life.   <br /> <br />Hamill begins by explaining that this book will be about \\"his\\" Manhattan, which consists of  \\"downtown.\\"  He explains that by \\"downtown\\" he means not just the section that New Yorkers today call \\"downtown\\" but all those parts of the city that have a historical resonance to him.  Thus, Times Square is downtown although today we refer to it as \\"mid-town.\\"  Harlem is downtown although it is far uptown (and Hamill does not feel competent to write about it in detail not having neither lived in it nor absorbed its essence as the rest of the city)  <br /> <br />New York's history is as old as the history of the New World.  But Hamill's narrative is not strictly chronological.  Rather it is geographical.  He begins with the oldest part of the City, the battery and writes of the Dutch and the British and Colonial times.  He moves on to describe the Wall Street area as it existed in Colonial times.  Although unrecognizable today, obviously, important structures from the period exist.  He spends much time discussing the Trinity Church, where Alexander Hamilton is buried, a mere block from where the World Trade Center once stood.  As the City expanded northward with the passage of time, so Hamill expands his narrative northward, explaining how the \\"Knickerbockers\\", the offspring of the unions of old Dutch and English, moved northwards into elegant houses on fifth avenue outside the increasingly teeming streets of downtown.  As early as the early 19th Century, old New Yorkers were already pining for the good old days.  And this is the ongoing theme of the book as Hamill describes the growth of the dangerous neighborhoods of the Five Points and later the Tenderloin, precursors of the Forty Second street/times square district that would threaten the city in the seventies and eighties and the other neighborhoods that developed, Greenwich Village, The Flat Iron district, the lower west side that is today called Tribeca.  That theme is constant change coupled with nostalgic longing for a vanished past.  Sometimes the nostalgia is warranted, sometimes as in the case of the old Times Square, it is not.   <br /> <br />Hamill's writing is at its finest when he describes the Manhattan of his own youth, in the late fifties, early sixties.  He writes of the great jazz musicians he saw, of the writers he drank with at the Lion's Head tavern.  He brings the period to life but he never seems to imply that the future is not something to look forward to as well.  Indeed, Hamill does not shy away from the squalor that overtook the City in the seventies and eighties, when rampant crime and drug abuse threatened to take New York down permanently.  He marvels at the revival that has made New York one of the safest most pleasant large cities in the world today. <br /> <br />The reader of this book will learn many interesting facts about New York's past, about its architecture and about its street life.  Revealed are the buried layers of the past, still visible among the skyscrapers to those willing to take the time to look.  This is a marvelous book and a great companion to \\"Forever\\", Hamill's fantasy novel about New York's history.  <br />	2005-01-06
US	52552835	R2QKGB56X0V2FB	0827606079	932388045	Swimming in the Sea of Talmud: Lessons for Everyday Living	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A Wonderful Introduction to a Central Text of Judaism	Along with the Jewish Bible (the Tanach), the Talmud is central text of Judaism.  Consisting of two components, Mishnah (oral law) and Gemarrah (Rabbinical discussion of the Mishnah), the voluminous words of the great Rabbinic Sages expound on every conceivable subject and their rulings make up the whole of modern Jewish practice and belief.  It is the Talmud that turned the ancient worship of the God of Abraham by the nation of Israel into the religion of Judaism.  Although learned Jews spend their lives immersed in Talmud study, for less knowledgeable Jews it is a sorely and unfortunately neglected area of Jewish study.  Indeed, many modern Jews would be hard pressed to explain exactly what Talmud is.  Their are many reasons for this of course, but certainly a primary one is that the language style and method of the Talmud is virtually incomprehensible to the untrained mind. (even in translation)  Although the Talmud is divided into tractates dealing with broad subjects such as prayer, damages, relations between the sexes, holy things etc., it is not truly subdivided in the way in which we moderns are accustomed.  There is no index and laws and rulings on different subjects are found throughout the work.  Thus while a \\"sugya\\" or section of Gemarrah may begin by discussing a certain mishnah, it will soon be sure to ramble in a thousand directions as the words of different sages with different opinions are recorded with no reference to when they lived or when they spoke or often, whose opinion prevailed.  Even the most advanced rabbinic students of Talmud need help comprehending the meaning, turning to the great Rashi or to their own teachers.  Immersing oneself in Talmud is truly like being lost in an open sea.  And yet the Talmud is chock full of wisdom and exciting insights that have real meaning for our lives, even today.  This is why the Talmud should be studied by all Jews (and even non-Jews) who are interested in understanding Judaism. <br /> <br /> And yetfor most of us, studying the text from a traditional source such as the Steinsaltz translation and commentary, is out of the question.  The language of the Talmud is so terse, the style and methods of the Rabbis it quotes so ellyptical, as to seem an elaborate code.  This book is an excellent introduction for the uninitiated into the swirling sea of Talmud.  After a brief introduction to the style and method of the Talmud, the authors, Conservative Rabbis, divide the book into sections, each one representing a tractate.  They then take a sampling of the thousands of sugyot available for each tractate, printing a literal translation of the Mishnah and/or Gemarrah with additional explanatory language in brackets to make it more (although still not clearly) comprehensible.  Next is a paragraph that explains what the sugya means, what the Rabbis are trying to say.  Often, the explanatory section will fill in details or background that a more advanced student will be aware of that gives the section meaning.  Finally in a \\"drash\\" or teaching section, the authors put the words of the Talmud into a modern context through use of a story or example that shows how the ruling or discussion can apply to our modern lives.  In this way, as Yeshiva students do, we can see how the Talmud is not just a seventeen hundred year old book that we study historically but a living breathing work of art and religious thought that can continue to give meaning to our lives. <br /> <br /> Anyone interested in Judaism or the Jewish religion that does not already have a familiarity with the study of Talmud should begin with this book.  It is lively, entertaining and easy.  You will not be sorry.      <br />	2004-08-16
US	52552835	R1N69N667DWUZJ	1594200122	969784645	Things Worth Fighting for: Collected Writings	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Great Journalist-A Profound Loss !	I have been a fan of Michael Kelly since I first discovered him in the pages of the New Republic back in the early nineties.  He was that rarest of pundit/journalists.  He was a man profoundly interested in truth and profoundly disgusted by modern ?spin.?  Although a moderate liberal by birthright and inclination, Kelly found himself moving further and further from the reservation as the Clinton years proceeded.  Kelly eventually was fired as editor of the New Republic for being too harsh on the Clinton administration.  He then found his way to a regular syndicated column in the Washington Post and a job as editor in chief of the Atlantic, which he turned around completely.  He became an embedded reporter during the Iraq war and as most know was tragically killed when his jeep came under fire and crashed on the way to Bagdhad.  He was forty seven and left a wife and two young sons.  <br />We will never read the book he would have written about the war.  I have no doubt it would have given us the real story, unvarnished and without an agenda.  Because that?s what Kelly was about.  His loss is not just a tragedy for his family, it is a national tragedy because a vital voice has been lost at a crucial time in American history. A reading of this brilliant collection of Kelly?s writings will attest to just how great the loss is.  This book is a collection of Mike?s writings from 1990 through his death in 2003.  The book is organized, not chronologically but by section.  There is a section on ?Visions of America? in which Kelly?s columns and articles on American culture in the nineties is collected.  These writings display the wit and satire for which he was well known.  In sections on politics and the ?Age of Clinton? Kelly skewers the emptiness of ?spin? politics, when elections become nothing more than winning a game and where image and perception are more important than substance.  His more lengthy personality profiles are brilliant examples of the genre and reading his profiles of Jesse Jackson in middle age, Ross Perot, Louis Farrakhan, Hillary Clinton and many others will bring back memories of a time that seems long distant now.  His descriptions of the results of Sadaam?s tyranny against Kuwait will churn the stomach more than a decade later.  His account of the first Gulf War brings home the reality of modern combat brilliantly.  He also wrote bemusedly, in a section on family, about the world of his toddler and pre-school sons who he obviously loved dearly.<br />It is in his post 9/11/01 writings, however, that Mike really found his voice.  As the stark reality of the struggle we face was brought home, Kelly remembered, less than fondly, the profound emptiness of the Clinton age, and looked forward to a time of newly found resolve.  I am sure he would be horrified at the breakdown of the national consensus, along party lines.  As the argument began for action against Iraq, Kelly?s most eloquent essay, ?Immorality on the March?, demonstrates the profound immorality of the protesters who would doom the Iraqi people and the World to a permanent Hussein tyranny.  In ?Who Would Choose Tyranny? he reveals the absurdity of the argument that Iraqi?s would choose the jackboot of Sadaam to liberation by America. <br />The final section has some columns Mike filed during the early days of the war and personal E-Mails to his family and friends sent from Kuwait just before he left to meet his destiny with the Third Infantry Division.  Even in these simple E-Mails, Mike?s profound skill with words is obvious.    I know if Michael Kelly were alive today, no journalist would be better situated to write on the war?s justification and in eloquent support of the larger war on terror.  No one would be better able to ridicule the fools on the left, the Michael Moore?s who spout absurdities and hurt our morale and resolve.  Most importantly, no one would better shame the politicians and pundits who condemn the Bush administration without offering alternatives, who place electoral expediency over the national interest.  Mike fought this his whole career.  He would not refrain from criticism where such criticism is warranted but he would be believable, because he would place it in the context of the larger events that shape the direction of the world.  No one did it better than him.  Please buy this book, not only as a way of supporting Michael Kelly?s young family but because it represents the final legacy of a career cut tragically short.  I am no fan of Maureen Dowd but she is absolutely correct in this assessment of Michael Kelly ?Michael died for two things he believed in: journalism and ridding the world of jackboots.?  It will be small comfort to his beloved wife, children and parents but it may be of some consolation to fans of his writing.	2004-07-12
US	52552835	RC79IPQ41SRHX	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What Shaped the Views of Bush's Foreign Policy Team	In this interesting book, we learn of the history of the most pivotal figures in the Bush foreign policy/national security team, namely Paul Wolfowitz, Colin Powell, Condeleeza Rice, Richard Armitage, Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney.  We see that although of different backgrounds temperments and political/ideological views, all came together in the aftermath of September 11, 2001 to favor a strong preemptive approach to combating terrorism.  Of these figures, only Wolfowitz can be considered a \\"neo-con\\".  Cheney, a strong figure in the real politik approach of the first Bush administration and the earlier Ford administration is hardly a neo-con.  Yet the administration is smeared as controlled by the dastardly neo-cons.  The book moves in largely chronological order and traces the early life and careers of these pivotal figures and shows how they came to be where they are today.  It presents a vivid and lively portrait of these larger than life figures.  The story is presented without a pre-existing agenda.  Jim Mann neither reveres nor disdains the Vulcans.  He simply seeks to understand them.  Therefore I recommend this book to everybody.	2004-07-11
US	52552835	R1JRP5MDK7UYNS	0465086330	322831478	To Pray As A Jew: A Guide To The Prayer Book And The Synagogue Service	Books	5	59	59	N	N	An Introduction to the Halachah and Meaning of Jewish Prayer	Even for observant and committed Jews, the liturgy of the daily and Shabbat prayer service can be daunting.  For the less educated Jew, merely entering a Synagogue can be most intimidating.  Numerous books have been written in an effort to help the Jewish layman understand the prayer service and feel comfortable in Synagogue.  In my opinion, this one is the best.  Rabbi Donin divides the service into its component parts and explains both the origin and meaning of each.  For example, we learn how the Amidah came to be a substitute for the daily sacrifices of the Temple period and therefore, how its structure parallels the various types of sacrifice.  But he does more than explain the background and meaning of the prayers.  He shows how Jewish prayer, like all of Jewish practice, is a system with rules.  For example when the reader or Chazzan chants a blessing (or \\"bracha\\"), a response of \\"amen\\" by a congregant will impart the saying of the bracha to the congregant.  Whether or not one feels bound by the halacha (Jewish law), I think it is very interesting to see how every aspect of the prayer service has a correct way.  For the beginner who is unfamiliar with the rituals and practices of the synagogue service, such as when to stand, the rules pertaining to tallit and tefilin, and what to do when given honors or an aliyah, this book explains it.  A Jew, completely lost at Shul will feel comfortable after reading this book.  Of course it is written from a traditional Orthodox perspective.  It describes what happens in a traditional service.   But aside from its emphasis on gender separation, a feature of Orthodox Judaism, the Conservative Jew will recognize his or her own service as being largely identical.  Reform and Reconstructionist services are substantially different so this book is not for those attending such services.  I think this book ought to be in the Judaica collection of every Jew interested in traditional Judaism.  It is a good companion to Donin's \\"ToPray as a Jew.\\"  You don't need to be Orthodox to appreciate it.	2004-07-09
US	52552835	R1OQNT0R1RTJIT	0140185151	331648920	The Fixer (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Classic Novel of Anti-Semitism WIll Resonate With All!	Bernard Malamud's Pulitzer Prize winning novel of a poor Ukrainian Jew imprisoned for a murder he did not commit in Tsarist Russia, is one of the great Jewish interest novels ever written.  But like all great works of literature, Malamud's hero, Jacob Bok, moves beyond the parochial and into the realm of the universal.  In short, although the novel is about the Jewish experience in the anti-Semitic world of pre-Soviet Russia, the hero's predicament will resonate with readers of all backgrounds.<br />  Jacob Bok is a classic yiddish character who will be familiar to anyone versed in the works of Isaac Baashev Singer or Shalom Aleichem.  He is a miserable young man of the shtetl, without faith in God and desperately poor his barren wife has run off with another man and left  Bok with nothing.  Bok is a \\"fixer.\\", a tradesman who today would be known as a handyman.  Poorly educated, the fixer is an intelligent man with a bent for philosophy.  He calls himself a free thinker and is inspired by the works of Spinoza.  With only his tools and a pathetic horse he sets off for Kiev, hoping for a better life.  Instead, a series of mistakes and bad circumstances lands him in jail, accused of the ritual murder of a Christian boy.  The remainder of the book chronicle's Bok's experience in the Kafkaeque world of Tsarist justice.  For a poor unknown Jew, there is no justice and Bok's suffering is harrowing.<br /> But what makes this novel great is not the narrative of unjust suffering but the inner workings of Bok's mind as he attempts to reconcile his lost Jewish faith, his notions of justice and the words of Jesus to which he is exposed with the catastrophe of his situation.  Bok changes, from a man who conceals his Jewishness to work for an anti-Semite to a man who, despite his lack of faith, refuses to either confess to a crime he did not commit or to implicate other Jews in the blood libel.  There is no melodramatic ending and, indeed the book is quite ambiguous.  But what Malamud makes clear is that Bok's ultimate physical fate is irrelevant.  By making a stand against injustice, Bok has won his humanity.  And by insisting that he be brought to trial and refusing to be just another anonymous cog in the Tsar's vast machine of repression, Bok re-asserts his humanity and his individuality.  Malamud is no existentialist.  Bok continually asks why such bad luck should happen to him.  He gets no answer because there is no answer.  This is the existential dilemma.  But Malamud rejects the existentialist answer, that man exists in the absence of any universal justice.  As Bok realizes, freedom is not only physical but intellectual as well.  At no time does Bok compromise his humanity.  He struggles with insanity from the loneliness of his predicament.  But ultimately he succeeds.  A man can live or die with his head held high.  He can remain a man until the end, whatever the cost.  This is something Jews came to realize throughout their history and is a large part of the reason the Jewish faith has survived for four thousand years.  But it is a lesson for all of mankind as well.	2004-06-25
US	52552835	R1M086F4REXJTB	1586481843	626448035	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Definite Story of a Great Life!	The presidency of Franklin Delano Roosevelt was momentous and yet it continues to be shrouded in myth.  The same is true of Roosevelt the man.  Who was this patrician only child of an indulgent mother, paralyzed by polio in his thirties, who ultimately came to be one of the three greatest presidents in American history and one of the greatest Americans of all time?<br />Conrad Black?s enormous one volume biography attempts to answer this question in a new way.  To summarize Black?s view of Roosevelt?s character, FDR was cunning, manipulative, callous, vindictive, sometimes cruel and always inscrutable.  Indeed, in Black?s view he bore some of the traits associated with the enemies of freedom, Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini.  But to Black, these traits of character were always applied to benign ends and a personality like Roosevelt?s was vitally necessary to carry out the tasks the times demanded.  Although he is a staunch conservative, Black acknowledges Roosevelt's greatness without hesitation.<br />The first few hundred pages or so runs through the narrative of Roosevelt?s life, including his over-indulgent childhood as the son of wealth and privilege in Hyde Park, New York.  Black moves through these early years quickly.  In comparison to other biographers, he does not give all that much credence to Roosevelt?s early life as providing much insight into the development of his character.  The seminal moment of FDR?s first forty years was of course the attack of Polio, which left him with withered legs, unable to walk or even stand without heavy leg braces.  The traditional narrative of Roosevelt?s life holds that the crucible of the battle with serious illness represented a turning point from lighthearted unserious young man, to serious man of gravitas.  Black rejects this view, instead arguing that Roosevelt always had the characteristics of stubbornness and determination and it is these traits that enabled him to overcome a disease and a disability that might haveruined his life but did not.  The polio did not fundamentally change him.  <br />After a reasonably small section on Roosevelt?s political career in New York and his rivalry with fellow Democrat, Al Smith, Black begins his discussion on Roosevelt?s presidency.  This discussion proceeds in chronological order and has a fairly detailed narrative of all the major and minor events in FDR?s presidency, as well as profiles of all the major figures around Roosevelt.  These include his original political ax man, Louis Howe, who died early on in Roosevelt?s first term and Harry Hopkins, a social worker by training who ran several of the New Deal?s important projects and later became the President?s closest confidante during the Second World War.  Black accepts the conventional wisdom that the New Deal did not ?cure? the Depression.  But in his view, this is beside the point.  The major intervention of the Federal government into the engine of the private sector economy was absolutely vital as a means of restoring confidence to the free-enterprise system.  Roosevelt instinctively grasped this and so acted, as Black demonstrates, boldly and without any real ideology except a willingness to try anything and everything.  This is the vital role Roosevelt played in his first six years as president.  Without his actions, it is doubtful the American liberal system would have survived in its present form.  The alternatives of leftist socialism/communism and right-wing fascism loomed large and appeared attractive to millions of people in 1933.  <br />The largest part of the book is reserved for a discussion of Roosevelt?s final seven years, when he maneuvered the United States from its traditional isolationism, into an active alliance with Great Britain and eventually in to the war itself.  It is here that Black shines the most as he acknowledges the greatness of Roosevelt?s leadership.  As Black shows, FDR always stayed just ahead of American public opinion while constantly advancingand then tactically retreating from his vision of foreign policy, namely the robust defense of Western style liberalism and fierce opposition to fascism and Nazism.  At a time when few in the United States acknowledged any American interest in the turmoil of Europe, Roosevelt knew the menace Hitler posed.  Indeed, Black argues that Roosevelt always saw Germany as the graver threat and may have actually underestimated the threat from Japan.  Nevertheless, FDR?s policy towards Japan made an attack inevitable.  And his open venomous hostility towards Nazi Germany, prior to Pearl Harbor, was designed to goad Hitler into declaring war on the United States.  It worked like a charm and Roosevelt had a united country willing and able to do whatever it took to destroy the Nazi and Japanese menace.<br />In the final section, Black punctures the myth that Roosevelt?s deteriorating condition made him an easy mark for Stalin at Yalta.  To the contrary, almost to the end, a tired and sick but commanding Roosevelt, used his Machiavellian skills to secure the post war settlement he favored.  He definitely harbored no illusions about Stalin?s duplicity.  On his death on April 12 1945, the German war was weeks from its ending and American forces were preparing to land on Okinawa.  Although? like Moses, FDR was not destined to see the promised land, his leadership ensured that it was reached.  America?s emergence as a global superpower and robust receptacle of free enterprise is a tribute to his greatness.  The man was not without flaws, some considerable and in this enormous work, Black does not scrimp on detailing them.  But these flaws of character simply formed part of a whole that proved greater than the sum of its parts.  The only conclusion a fair minded person can reach is that the United States, always a lucky nation, was fortunate to have such a great president at such a crucial time.	2004-03-31
US	52552835	R29WVVNYI6YA03	1400061946	899669555	An End to Evil: How to Win the War on Terror	Books	5	13	30	N	N	Fight to Win or Else!	So-called \\"neo-cons\\" have taken their lumps over the past couple of years from the Washington punditry, from the left and from many others who have little or no idea what they stand for.  In this new book, David Frum and Richard Perle set down on paper in straightforward easy to follow style, with unfailing logic, nothing less than a neo-conservative blueprint for a new American security doctrine in the age of Islamist fascist terror.  I have read a number of reviews of this book and I must say at the outset that the critics seem to have read another book.  Nowhere in these pages to Frum and Perle argue for non-ending war or the elimination of alliances or anything like that.  Instead they make a rational cogent case for a robust and forward looking American security doctrine designed to protect the safety of Americans and not un-importantly, to make the world a better place as well.  <br />Frum and Perle begin by explaining in the most simple terms possible, just what the country is up against.  We are not at war with a terrorist group but with an ideology.  We cannot keep ourselves safe by killing or arresting terrorists (although this is vital).  The authors show how tyrannies like Iraq and Iran and Syria use terrorism as a means of projecting power.  It is indisputable that the threat of this kind of terror cannot end until the states that promote and enable terrorism as state policy are changed or ended.  In the next section, Frum and Perle explain in the most cogent terms possible just why the Iraq War was justified.  After describing the pitiable state of American intelligence services at home and abroad they set forth the failures of American foreign policy going back more than a dozen years.  As one example, they single out the disastrous mixed signal given by a diplomat to Sadaam Hussein in 1990, leading him to believe he had an American green light to invade Kuwait.<br />After describing the pretty pass America had reached by September 11, 2001, Frum andPerle set forth their comprehensive prescription for winning the war.  The authors fret that the will to fight and to win has already been lost and they acknowledge that the only thing that can defeat us is loss of will.  The book shows how the struggle is both physical and ideological.  But most importantly, they show how it is not poverty but tyranny that breeds radical Islamism and terrorists willing to die to annihilate as many Americans as possible.  The prescription for victory contains many components but it can be summed up with one word \\"robustness.\\"  Whether it is on the battlefield, at the diplomatic table or in the netherworld of ideas, Frum and Perle argue that the United States must fight to win.  They argue succinctly that an America that promotes its interests to its friends and sets forth consequences to misbehavior by its foes will be an America that is successful.  A great power should be respected by its friends and feared by its enemies.  Critics who have argued that the book calls for the attack of country after country are lying.  Only in the case of North Korea do the authors argue that the U.S. must prepare to attack the regime since they see NO chance of North Korea voluntarily giving up its nuclear weapons program.  Even here, they hold out hope that the serious threat of a U.S. attack would lead China to intervene and force North Korea to eliminate its nuclear program.  Frum and Perle have no illusions.  They argue that a less insane Marxist dictatorship in North Korea that can be reasoned with is a perfectly acceptable short term alternative.  Regarding Iran, Frum and Perle simply argue that we should fully and totally support the internal insurgents who seek to overthrow the Mullahs rather than attempt to engage so-called \\"moderates\\" who are not moderate at all.  Regarding Saudi Arabia, they say that the U.S. should forcefully act to end Saudi support for Wahabiism by ultimately threatening to support a break away of the eastern Shiiteportion of the Saudi territory where all the oil is located.  Understand, they do not argue that this should happen, just that it should be threatened as a credible alternative to a Saudi change of heart.  Other examples of how American statecraft should treat other nations abound.  The common denominator in all the cases is that the United States should not allow itself to be rolled by its friends or its foes.  Why should the United States kowtow to France when France has behaved like a rival not an ally?  Why should the United States subvert its interests to a United Nations filled with tyrannies?  <br />        Unfair critics will pick out individual quotations and worst case scenarios in the book to paint a picture of Frum and Perle as extremists.  I do not think that any fair minded person reading this book can come away with that impression.  Indeed, it is their critics who come off as the extremists.  What do you call someone who continues to promote a course of action even when it is shown to be an abject failure?  The book does not give an easy formula for victory.  Indeed, the difficulty of the task is acknowledged over and over.  But because a task is difficult does not make it wrong or unnecessary.  Even if one does not agree with each and every assertion made by these men, it is undeniable that their argument is couched in reasoned language with logical point after point.  The hysterical criticism is what frightens me.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in statecraft and the war on terrorism.	2004-02-24
US	52552835	R1PFH82M5FAJC4	0385507569	301352396	Dear Americans: Letters from the Desk of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Insight into the Character of Reagan from his own Words	It turns out that Ronald Reagan, often derided for intellectual shortcomings, was a vociferous letter writer throughout his eight years in the White House.  This collection pulls together in a single book, many of the letters he wrote on all varieties of subjects and to all manners of persons.  There are letters to supporters, letters to opponents, letters to world leaders and letters to Americans who wrote either in support or critically.  Most incredibly, there are letters Reagan wrote to a child with whom he maintained a \\"pen pal\\" correspondence throughout his time in Washington.<br />These letters, many with handwritten additions or paragraphs were Reagan's personal correspondence, not edited or ghost written by speech writers or other advisors.  They reveal a man who was not detached from either the day to day workings of his administration or the policy arguments the administration was engaged in.  Many of the letters are touching or filled with humor.  Many times I found myself chuckling.  For example, when Reagan gently let down a boy who was hoping to receive federal cleanup funds because his mother had declared his room a \\"disaster area.\\"  Some have a hint of anger or defiance.  Many of the letters are responses by Reagan to individual citizens who wrote to him critical of a certain policy.  His replies were always polite and respectful of alternative opinions.  But he seems to have made the effort to convince these people of their mistakenness.    The letters reveal much about Reagan the man.  The book is arranged in chronological order with an introduction written by the editors detailing each year of the administration and the main issues Reagan faced both personal and professional.  In this manner the book reads like a memoir of Reagan's time in Washington.  I do not intend to discuss whether Reagan was right or wrong in his views or his actions.  Obviously, Reagan believed he was correct and his letters reflect this belief.  Others certainly disagreeand may well be right to do so.  But it will be helpful to an understanding of Reagan and his times to put to bed the myth that Reagan was a scripted movie actor.  These letters prove this is not so.  History will be served if Reagan's opponents can criticize the actions he took or the views he held and not re-hash a phony mythology.  I recommend this excellent collection to anyone, friend or foe, interested in Ronald Reagan and his times.	2004-01-12
US	52552835	RAR3WRP4DZ0WA	1593600011	939783013	Confronting Jihad: Israel's Struggle & The World After 9/11	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Words of Wisdom out of the Pages of theJerusalem Post	Topical essay collections are often a hit or miss proposition since the essays can appear dated by the time they are re-published in collection form.  Yet somehow, writing about the Middle East never seems irrelevant no matter how much time has passed.  This is true of Saul Singer's new book.  Singer, Jerusalem Post editorial writer and columnist has collected much of his writings for the Post between the year 1998 and the summer of 2003, particularly those concerning the war on terrorism being fought and faced by both the United States and Israel.  Singer contends this is the same war and I agree with him.  The essays, most of which are unsigned editorials Singer penned for the Post and a number of which are from his weekly column \\"Interesting Times\\", are arranged largely, though not totally chronologically and each one is proceeded by an introduction written by Singer this summer, before the book was published.  These introductions create a cohesiveness of the essays by tying them to current conditions.   For example, on many occasions, post 9/11, the Post was critical of what it saw as American equivocation on Palestinian terrorism.  In a number of his introductions to editorials of this nature, Singer acknowledges where his assumptions turned out to be pre-mature or mistaken.<br />Taken together the book is a striking history of the major issue of Islamic fascism facing Israel and the world since Sept. 2000.  Looking back at these events reminded me of many things I had forgotten.  It is always useful to go back and examine events one lived through since the perspective is very different when one has knowledge of the future.<br />From my perspective Singer, an American who made aliyah a number of years ago, is a centrist, which is to say he would give up land to create a Palestinian state if he thought such a state would live peacefully with Israel.  But like much of today's \\"neo-cons\\", Singer believes that Israel must win the war in which it is engaged just asthe United States must.   He is scornful of Israel and American \\"elite\\" which try to appease the terrorists.  It should also be noted that Singer is a firm believer in the free market and many of his editorials have called for serious economic reform of the Israeli economy, which is still essentially socialist.  <br />All in all this book is a must read for anyone interested in a sensible review of the events affecting the peace of Israel and the United States over the past three years.  And the Jerusalem Post is a must read for anyone looking for sensible commentary on the current world scene.	2004-01-08
US	52552835	R30L3E05ACYANK	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A Friendship That Changed the World!	Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston S. Churchill were, probably the two greatest statesman of the twentieth century.  A voluminous amount of biographical material is available about both but this is the first book I have seen that focuses on their unique relationship.  As Jon Meacham demonstrates, despite the similarities of their backgrounds, Roosevelt and Churchill had very different personalities.  And the friendship they formed during the Second World War is both a testament to the strength of personal affection and the needs and positions of the U.S. and Britain respectively.<br />The book begins with a brief review of the life of the personal life of each man.  We discover that while Roosevelt was coddled and spoiled by his affectionate mother, Churchill was completely neglected by his aloof unfeeling parents.  Perhaps their childhood experiences led to the traits they developed as adults.  Roosevelt was secretive and while superficially kind and friendly, seemed to keep his genuine feelings in reserve.  Churchill was gregarious and absolutely without guile, as if he needed to constantly get those around him to love him.  <br />Prior to the outbreak of the war, in September 1939, Roosevelt and Churchill had met only once, in 1918 when Roosevelt was assistant secretary of the navy and Churchill served in the government of Lloyd George.  As Meacham describes, Roosevelt was not impressed and decades later, Churchill did not even remember the meeting.  Upon the outbreak of the war, Churchill was returned to the government as First Lord of the admiralty.  Roosevelt, having followed Churchill's futile efforts to change British appeasement policy over the course of the decade, recognized a kindred spirit and wrote to Churchill offering him the opportunity to correspond with the president as he thought necessary.  This was when the U.S. was still neutral.  When Churchill became Prime Minister in the spring of 1940, during the fall of France, he began a remarkable correspondence with Roosevelt that lasted the length of the war.  In his letters to FDR, Churchill always referred to himself as \\"Former Naval Person\\".  As described by Meacham, the letters are for the purpose of business but also laden with affection.<br />The book follows chronological order describing in great detail each of their meetings beginning with the Atlantic Charter conference off the coast of Nova Scotia, prior to Pearl Harbor and then Churchill's trip to the U.S. immediately after Pearl Harbor.  It was at this moment, when Churchill spent two weeks in the White House, that he and Roosevelt truly became friends.  In one amusing anecdote, one evening, Roosevelt wheeled into Churchill's room to see the Prime Minister stark naked.  Embarrassed, FDR apologized and backed away.  Churchill reassured him that \\"The Prime Minister of Great Britain has nothing to hide from the President.\\"<br />But, as Meacham shows, once Stalin came into the picture, things got more complicated.  Roosevelt was determined to cultivate a relationship with the Soviet dictator.  In order to do so he intentionally froze out Churchill at the Tehran conference and then at Yalta.  Indeed, at times he embarrassed and humiliated Churchill all for the purpose of gaining the trust of Stalin.  Churchill for his part, seemed to understand that the U.S. and the Soviet Union had become the senior partners with Britain a junior partner at best.  While personally hurt by Roosevelt's actions and professionally frustrated by his inability to assert his views diplomatically, Churchill persevered.  Never, even at the lowest moments of the relationship, did Churchill lose either his basic respect and admiration for Roosevelt or his visceral understanding that Britain's future was inexorably bound up with that of the United States.  In the end we know just how Churchill felt about Roosevelt but we will probably never know just how FDR felt about Churchill.  How much of his alternative kindness and coldness towards Churchill was calculated for reasons of state and how much based on genuine affection?  This can never be known.  This book is a fascinating well-written portrait of a relationship unique in history.  It is unlikely two heads of state will ever have occasion in our modern age of supersonic travel to spend weeks at a time together.  I recommend it highly to anyone with an interest in history.	2003-11-25
US	52552835	R3RMRIHLKEX713	047146502X	312680518	The Case for Israel	Books	4	23	40	N	Y	A Lawyerly Argument in Support of Israel	The case for Israel has been made in many different forums and in many different ways.  It is a little pathetic that this tiny country floating in a sea of Arab hatred needs to continue to justify its existence and necessary actins to preserve the safety of its people but such is life.  This new book by Alan Dershowitz doesn't really add anything new to the debate but it is valuable nonetheless because if its style.  What Dershowitz has written is, essentially, a legal brief in support of Israel.  Dershowitz divides the book into a series of anti-Israel statements, which her enemies state as fact.  He gives the enemies' side of the case and then proceeds to demolish it in lawyerly fashion by using fact and evidence.  As a well known appellate lawyer, Dershowitz has an excellent grasp on the use of evidence.  He understands that a statement in support of one of his points in support of Israel will have greater strength if it comes from an Arab source rather than an Israeli source.  So whenever possible he uses Israel's opponents as source material as he does, for example, in his demolition of myths regarding Israel's wars of survival.   Another technique the top lawyer will use is to acknowledge evidence that works against his case but to minimize its impact.  Dershowitz never argues that Israel is perfect but he persuasively demonstrates that Israel is held to an unfair double standard whereby every wrong action is used to demonize her while much worse actions and indeed pure evil is ignored or excused when undertaken by the rest of the world.<br /> Ultimately, Dershowitz persuasively proves his case; Israel is a free society in the Western model, with essentially good motives no worse than and usually a good deal better than the majority of countries on earth.  The very fact that the United Nations seems singularly devoted to condemning every wrong committed by the Jewish state while ignoring the atrocities committed by most of its members can be nothing more thananti-semitism pure and simple.  This book is nothing original but it is worth reading.  It will persuade no one whose mind is made up that Israel is the epitome of evil but it will lend support to Israel's supporters.	2003-11-20
US	52552835	R3EC2LQDENGG4R	0385509057	87980577	Right to Exist: A Moral Defense of Israel's Wars	Books	5	76	90	N	Y	Making the Case for Israel's Morality	The tiny, democratic, western industrialized nation of Israel has been under relentless attack, not just by its Arab enemies but by a growing class of haughty post-modern European elites.  In their efforts to de-legitimize Israel, her enemies not only wrongly attack her present efforts to defend against a murderous onslaught but, in Orlwellian fashion, recreate history to create a phony justification for Israel's pariah status.  Many of Israel's own defenders and supporters have fallen into a trap by accepting the premise that Israel is an immoral state, born in sin.  As Yaacov, Lozowick, former Labour supporter, current Sharon voter, demonstrates in this excellent book, nothing could be farther from the truth.  In presenting the moral case for Israel's actions to ensure its own survival, Lozowick makes no effort to cover up or exonerate Israel's wrongful actions, of which their are many.  Indeed, he makes no excuses for the relatively rare number of atrocities committed by Jews against Arabs but simply points out how such actions are always rejected by Israeli society at large while the reverse is surely not true.  Moreover, he is critical of numerous Israeli actions and policies that he thinks were wrong or incorrect but that don't really rise to the level of \\"atrocity\\", such as Israel's settlement policies or the Lebanon War.  It is this willingness to criticize that which cannot be defended that strengthens his argument that Israel is a just society that fights wars in a just manner even while its enemies commit savage crimes against humanity.<br />Lozowick's purpose here is not to write a history of Israel's wars but to set forth a moral justification for those wars.  In this he fully succeeds merely by presenting the truth in a coherent manner.  He succinctly examines the facts of each of Israel's wars and concludes, with the exception of the Lebanon war, that they are all justified under theories of just war, under international law and under the Geneva Convention while the reverse is clearly not the case.  The bottom line of course is that Israel, a tiny country founded largely by peace desiring socialists, has been under attack from all of its neighbors since before its creation in 1948.  Despite constant harassment and threat, which devolved into open warfare five separate times, Israel has almost always behaved in a scrupulously moral way, seeking to avoid harming civilians, offering to return its gains in exchange for a genuine peace.  Even when misguided, such as in the relentless pursuit of settlements amidst hostile Arab populations, Israel's policies have always been for the pursuit of a secure relationship with her neighbors.  <br />In the last part of the book, Lozowick spends a good deal of space analyzing the Oslo years and the ensuing war which is still going on.  While Lozowick was a supporter of Oslo, he now, looking back, acknowledges that he and people like him willfully deluded themselves that the Palestinians were prepared to end the conflict.  The evidence shows him that no peace is possible and he expects it won't be for at least 150 years.  I tend to agree with his assessment.  In discussing Israel's response to the eruption of massive terrorism and the creation of a Palestinian death cult, cultivated and promoted by Arafat and his henchman, Lozowick makes a strong argument for Sharon's policy of proportionate military action designed to put things in a holding pattern until the Palestinians are genuinely willing to make peace.  Like the majority of Israelis but unlike his former political allies, Lozowick does not see capitulation under fire as an option.  This book is really an excellent read and I recommend it along with its cousin, Alan Dershowitz' \\"The Case for Israel\\" for any defenders of Israel as well as anyone interested in truth rather than propaganda.	2003-11-06
US	52552835	R22CJZ1CKUIM8F	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brings Lincoln to Life	The historian seeking to give life to his subjects, particularly those who lived before the 20th century, can often run into problems due to the lack of available source material.  No man in American history has been more studied than the great AbrahamLincoln but how hard it is to bring him to life.  The value of good historical fiction is its ability to make history both lively and interesting and to place it into the context of everyday life.  Vidal's book is a great piece of literature.  Brilliantly written it is also histirucally accurate.  The book is essentially a character study of Lincoln from his inaugeration to his death four years later.  Although a number of characters narrate the story through the omniscent device, Lincoln does not.  With the exception of a historically verifed dream of his own death Lincoln had shortly before the assasination, the reader never enters Lincoln's mind.  Instead he is viewed through a series of characters who surround him.  His secretary John Hay, his wife Mary, his rival Salman Chase, his secretary of State William Seward and the traitor David Herold who was hanged for his part in the assasination conspiracy.  Through their eyes Lincoln is presented as he was, a folksy deceptively simple mid-westerner who was shrewd, politically brilliant and deeply morose about the horrible work he was pledged to fullfill.  Ultimately Lincoln is really unknowable and this is as it should be because this was his character.  The narrative uses the natural ups and downs of the great struggle to present a story of great suspense and pathos.  Anyone not familiar with the Civil War will learn much from this novel while being entertained.  To me, a history buff, the single stand out moment that really shows where Lincoln was at comes after he is given word from General Meade about the results of the Battle of Gettysburg.  Lincoln, having heard that Lee was outnumbered and overextended had hoped that the rebel army could be destroyed once and for all.  Lincoln received word from Meade that his forces had driven &quot;the enemy from our sacred soil.&quot;  Lincoln was in despair.  After more than two years of war, his commanding General still did not even understand that ALL the soil of the United States was sacred soil, including the seceded states.  More importantly, what hope was there of destroying the rebellion when the top General saw his job as driving Lee out of the North rather than invading and taking control of the South.? <br />I highly recommend this book to everybody.  We owe it to Lincoln's memory to understand him beyond the cliches.	2003-09-28
US	52552835	RYVWP2OMKZ571	0743242998	728273135	The Beginning of Wisdom: Reading Genesis	Books	5	93	101	N	N	A Philosopher's View of Genesis	Leon Kass, the well-known philosopher/ethicist, has written a tour de force in this huge book.  What Kass has undertaken in this work is to review every passage, indeed every word of the Book of Genesis from a philosophical perspective rather than a purely religious viewpoint.  In doing so he helps make the book accessible not just to those outside of the Jewish or Christian tradition but to those within religious movements who reject the fundamentalist explanations of the traditionalists.<br />As a starting point, I would add that Kass does examine the text more from a Jewish perspective than a Christian one.  While his English translations are from the King James Bible, he often examines the original Hebrew that appears in the Torah in order to glean a greater understanding of the words of the text.  He also frequently cites Jewish theologians and scholars, either to lend credence to his arguments or to offer counter-arguments.<br />To Kass, Genesis presents an enormous wealth of material on the development of human ethics, morality and higher intellectual development.  Because this is a work on the philosophical meaning of Genesis, Kass skirts the arguments as to the bible's historical accuracy.  For purposes of his arguments, he treats the stories and characters as real and brings them to life in ways the text does not.  The Rabbis of the Midrash do this as well but they are constrained by the need to fit the text into pre-existing notions.  For example, because Jacob is considered a great figure in Jewish history, the Rabbis are constrained to find justifications for his seemingly bad actions.  Kass has no such limitations.  As a result, the characters are brought to life as living breathing human beings, warts and all.<br />The overriding theme of Genesis, according to Kass, is the effort of God to create a human society that will practice both justice and mercy and walk in His footsteps.  As God seems to fail in this endeavor twice (with pre-flood humanity and with the re-constituted humanity after the flood) he decides to make Himself available to one special people, the Israelites, to be descended from one single man, Abraham.  Once we are introduced to Abraham and witness the miraculous birth of his son Isaac, Kass argues that the remainder of the book is the story of the preservation of the \\"new way\\" in this one family and soon tribe.  Along the way are stories of intense human drama and pathos.  <br />Always using the text as his starting point, Kass shows how some of our pre-conceived ideas about the great biblical figures may not be supportable.  One of the clearest examples of this comes in the story of Joseph.  Tradition portrays Joseph as not only talented and brilliant but as the most righteous of men.  Kass shows, through examination of the text, that Joseph is not a purveyor of the \\"new way\\" but instead is a man of Egypt.  Kass shows how Joseph's actions from youth to old age render him inappropriate as the future leader of Israel, a new nation created to spread the ways of the Lord to the world.  Instead, it is Judah who emerges as the ultimate leader.  <br />The book is filled with gems of wisdom gleaned purely from the text.  It is lively and fascinating and always reverent.  While one may not agree with each conclusion Kass reaches, his arguments are fascinating.  Any open minded person will find this book a great read.	2003-09-02
US	52552835	RNB18NOGJPYRD	0345450477	771402949	Forty Ways to Look at Winston Churchill: A Brief Account of a Long Life	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	The Next Generation Looks at Churchill	Gretchen Craft Rubin is not a historian or a professional Churchillphile but rather someone who came to develop a fascination with this great man in recent years much like myself.  She is also someone who was only born as Churchill's life was ending so all of her interest in Churchill is historical.  What she has done here is to write 40 short essays each coming at Churchill from a different perspective.  Some essays examine Churchill as husband and father, Churchill as leader, Churchill from a revisionist standpoint and many others.  Indeed, this book serves as a very brief introduction to all that continues to make Churchill so interesting, nearly forty years after his death.  Nothing new or original is contained in this book but it is interesting and well-written and I would recommend it to anyone interested in WInston Churchill	2003-09-02
US	52552835	R3GD4JED55NUV0	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Fair and Balanced Bio of JFK	There are many kinds of biographies of John F. Kennedy available.  Many are fawning.  Many are tawdry exposes.  Few are serious efforts by legitimate historians to assess the life and times of the 35th president of the United States.  Although there are excellent serious books on Kennedy's presidency such as Richard Reeves' President Kennedy-A Portrait of Power, the time is ripe, forty years after Kennedy's death, for a fresh historical look.  Fortunately this lively new biography, by Robert Dallek, fits the bill nicely.  <br />The book is a fairly thorough examination of JFK's entire life with a special emphasis on the campaign of 1960 and his presidency.  Although Dallek touches on Kennedy's womanizing, he does not dwell on it except to the extent it touches on issues of Kennedy's character and/or events of his life.  Dallek's conclusion is that to Kennedy sex was a form of recreation, no different than golf was to Eisenhower.  More important are issues of Kennedy's health.  Dallek is the first historian to gain full access to Kennedy's  medical records.  They reveal that JFK was a very sick man, much sicker than is commonly known.  Indeed, Kennedy seemed to live his life in constant, nearly debilitating pain.  Dallek has great admiration for Kennedy's ability to overcome these disabilities and doesn't believe they affected his judgment or ability to carry out the duties of his office.  Part of the reason Kennedy was able to function was the huge quantity of medications he took on a daily basis.  Dallek describes these in detail and concludes that, contrary to the conclusions of some of the previously published hatchet jobs, did not adversely affect Kennedy's ability to do the job and in fact made it possible.  Dallek's final conclusion on JFK's medical problems is that far from preventing him from doing his job effectively, they are an indication of President Kennedy's determination and strength of character.  I agree with this assessment.  It is ironic though, that a president with such an image of youth and vigor could be so sick.<br />John F. Kennedy was really a very interesting and complex person, he lived in interesting times and he lived an interesting life.  The image he cultivated was one that attached to him in life, not only after his death.  By November 1963, he had won over a significant portion of the country (though not all) and his re-election likely would have been substantially easier than the 1960 election. The tragedy of his death simply adds pathos to his story.  Dallek's overriding theme is one of promise unfulfilled.  Kennedy was not a fraud.  He was not a saint.  He was a gifted politician and rhetorician.  He came to show excellent qualities of leadership, including the capacity to grow and learn from mistakes and setbacks.  His short administration showed promise but did not accomplish a great deal.  In that sense his truly was an unfinished life.  <br />Although his successor, Lyndon Johnson, carried through a number of policies Kennedy only grappled with, such as civil rights legislation, there is no question that Johnson took the country in a different direction than Kennedy would have in a second term.  Among the more controversial sections of the book are Dallek's speculations on what JFK might have done regarding certain issues, had he lived to serve a second term.  In particular, a whole industry has arisen over what Kennedy would have done regarding Vietnam.  As others as well as Dallek have demonstrated, Kennedy was well aware by his death that the policy of \\"Vietnamization\\" of the conflict was an utter failure and that the South Vietnamese State could never survive without American military support..  Nor did he have any intention of committing the huge number of American forces that his generals were calling for.  From what I know of Kennedy's pragmatic and cautious character, I cannot believe he would have allowed things to unfold as they did for LBJ after 1964.  Would he have abandonedVietnam in 1965?  It's impossible to ever know.  But Dallek makes a strong case that a complete abandonment of the policy was something Kennedy was considering in 1963.  But the truth will forever be lost in the mists of an alternate reality in which the events of November 22, 1963 did not take place.  Nevertheless, as Dallek persuasively argues, the war that developed after 1965 under the administration of Johnson was not the policy of John F. Kennedy and such a deterioration was not inevitable.<br />This is a well-written serious biography of a talented, tragic President whose life deserves serious scrutiny not the sort of pap, which has been written about him by friends and foes alike.  History lovers and Kennedy aficionados will enjoy this book a great deal.  Kennedy haters will not like it.  The open minded will gain a window into a time that is rapidly retreating into the haze of history.	2003-07-16
US	52552835	RZINH8RWYU7OA	0609610945	318601204	Nothing Sacred: The Truth About Judaism	Books	1	98	159	N	N	A Nasty Screed by a Committed Leftist	This book by Douglas Rushkoff, though disguised as a progressive attempt to revitalize Judaism is, in actuality nothing short of a complete smear job on the Jewish religion and Jewish tradition as understood by all three major branches of Rabbinical Judaism.  Rushkoff, who has no background in either Jewish history or Jewish religious thought basically dismisses and distorts 3,000 years of Jewish religious thought in the service of an obviously left wing effort to promote \\"secular humanism\\" at the expense of Jewish tradition.  His errors and distortions are so obvious that one need not be well versed in Judaism to see through them.  I am not Orthodox and my objections to this book have nothing to do with Rushkoff's criticism of the intellectual stiltedness of today's extreme Orthodoxy.  Indeed, I agree with him on this.   <br />To start with, his use of language and contemptuous dismissal of Jewish tradition is actually offensive.  Remember this is not a history or anthropology book but a book about the Jewish religion.  He refers to God as Yawheh.  No Jewish religious writer of any stripe would do so.  For one thing, scholarship does not agree that this is the correct pronunciation.    For another traditional Jews, of all stripes do not refer to God's name as if he is just another ancient tribal god.   Another really strange thing to read in a book about Judaism is the term \\"Old Testament\\" as the name for the Hebrew Bible.  I need not explain why Jews find this offensive. It should properly be referred to as the Tanach.  But that would require Rushkoff to show a degree of reverence for Jewish tradition he is unprepared to demonstrate. <br />Rushkoff further denigrates Jewish tradition when he simply \\"assumes\\" that the entire bible is a myth.  Since it is a \\"myth\\", of course,  it is worthless except to the extent it teaches the \\"progressive\\" lessons Rushkoff values.  So, for example, the Exodus from Egypt becomes history's first labor revolt.  Of course Jewish thinkers disagree over the historicalness of the bible.  While Orthodoxy assumes it all to be literally true, not all streams of Judaism agree with this. But many Jews, myself included, believe that the Bible paints a historical picture of the origins of our people. Rushkoff dismisses us as fools.  And he presents no evidence to support his contention that the entire bible is a myth.  But Rushkoff's most egregious falsehood is his assertion that Jews, from the time of the prophets forward, in essence became atheists.  True, he calls this \\"abstract monotheism\\" but he means this in the modern sense as a God who is not really there.  You can believe in God or not believe in God.  But to argue that the prophets and the ancient Jews were essentially secular humanists is patently absurd.  Every word out of the mouths of the prophets, every prayer chanted by Jews is dedicated to the worship of a living personal God.  Whether true or not, this is what Jews have always believed, including the Rambam, whose thought is totally misrepresented by Rushkoff.  Maimonides was a rationalist but he was also a believing Jew.  Rushkoff constantly distorts Jewish history and thought without support or footnotes in order to fit his ideological thesis that Judaism is a progressive religion rooted in secular humanism.  So, for example, the Shema, the central prayer of Judaism, an ode to the living unified singular deity, is called by Rushkoff a \\"declaration of the unity of the universe\\".  To those who might not be familiar, the first line of the Shema is  \\"Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is One.\\"  While there is nothing wrong with giving ancient texts relevance and meaning to modern beliefs, don't pretend the Shema is not an ode to a living God.  There are too many more examples of this to go into. Of course much of Jewish law is concerned with issues of social justice.  But that does not mean that the Torah is not concerned with ritual prayer and worship of God.  This is the essence of Judaism, whatever your theology.  Traditional Judaism from time immemorial is based on the three \\"Ls\\" The Lord, The Law and the Land.  Rushkoff dismisses all three of them not just from our modern era but from traditional Judaism as well. <br />Rushkoff distorts equally in his discussion of modern Judaism.  One of his techniques is to find something about modern Jewish life he dislikes and call its practitioners \\"most Jews\\".  So according to Rushkoff \\"most Jews\\" are told what to think by their Rabbis who simply urge them to accept the Torah as literally true.  I belong to a progressive Conservative congregation and I assure you this is not the case.   Indeed, all branches of Judaism are looking for ways to make the Jewish religion more relevant to modern life.  Rushkoff would have you believe this is not the case.  All in all his criticisms of modern Jewish life, no matter how much validity they may have, are ruined by his extreme exaggeration.  All synagogues are not obsessed with fund raising to the exclusion of all else.  All synagogues do not teach a literal fundamentalist version of the Torah.  I guess Rushkoff has never heard of the Jewish Theological Seminary which teaches a modern critical and historical approach to the bible and Jewish history.   Finally, as a good leftist, Rushkoff has a clear contempt for Zionism.  He doesn't regard the Jews as a people, seems to hate any form of nationalism, rejects the idea that the Jews have always longed to return to Zion and condemns Israel as an excessively militaristic and unjust society.   <br />This book should not be read by anyone seeking a solution to the problems confronting the Jewish world.  It is not a legitimate criticism of Judaism of which their are many.  It is to Jewish religious history and thought what Holocaust denial is to the study of the Shoah.	2003-06-20
US	52552835	R1SK71CGZRKVVE	0393051889	723579546	Holocaust: A History	Books	5	17	21	N	N	The Inhuman Savagery of Man	The scholar seeking to write a comprehensive history of the Holocaust is confronted at the outset with two significant problems.  Too broad a focus on the big picture will tend to obscure the humanity of the individual victims who will come to seem abstract.  Too narrow a focus on individual stories will, inevitably, diminish the shear scope of the horror which is really too great for the human mind to comprehend.  The scholar must, therefore, try to reconcile both the larger picture and also to humanize the victims, to give them faces and names and backgrounds, to demonstrate their suffering.  In this brilliant new book, which is destined to become the new standard one volume text on the Holocaust, the authors succeed brilliantly.<br />They begin by developing the broader picture, showing how racial anti-Semitism grew in Europe and how it metastasized in Germany under Hitler.  The book then follows the horrible story chronologically as the Nazis systematically remove the Jews from all aspects of German society setting the stage for genocide with the outbreak of war.  Not neglected is the role played by other European countries in supporting the annihilation of European Jewry.  Repeated are the familiar stories of how Denmark rescued its Jewish citizens and how France cooperated with its Nazi overlords.  Not well known, however, is the fact that Romania, actually carried out its own formal program of genocide, independent of Germany, the only European country to do so<br />The book is meticulously footnoted and quite scholarly but the writing is always lively and riveting.  It is filled with quotes and anecdotes from a number of survivors and presents their stories in detail.  All aspects of the Holocaust are covered, including resistance movements, and the actions of the righteous who saved thousands of lives.  No book I have read covers the harrowing details of life in the Ghetto prisons as well and as comprehensively as this one.<br />The goal of Holocaustscholarship must be to keep the story alive.  The Shoah was remains and pray to God will always be, the worst atrocity in human history.  The scale of it staggers the mind.  This book succeeds admirably in exposing the sheer evil while maintaining a proper reverence for the memory of the victims.  It is necessary to avoid any implication of a mitigation of the horror.  For example, as the authors state in the chapter on the Righteous Gentiles:  It is not appropriate to say six million perished but thousands were saved by good people.  It is necessary to say six million perished AND thousands were saved by good people.  To understand the distinction between these two sentences is to understand the proper way to study the Holocaust.  This is a book that must be read by everyone so that we should NEVER FORGET.	2003-06-17
US	52552835	R22K9B99V7HENF	B00009NDAH	5817625	Supreme Command : Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	16	17	N	N	What Makes a War Leader Great	The true genius of leadership is found in the proper management of subordinates.  In this excellent book, Eliot Cohen examines the actions of four democratic leaders and how they led their nations through four different kinds of total war.  The four leaders are Lincoln, Clemenceau, Churchill and Ben-Gurion.  Each had differing styles and different concerns but each had one thing in particular in common, a determination that the strategic conduct of the war should be managed by civilian, not military leadership.  Cohen agrees with the four that such civilian control is absolutely essential not only to the winning of a war but to the preservation of a democracy.  In his chapter on Lincoln, Cohen describes how Lincoln formulated a political strategy for winning the Civil War which included complicated and sometimes contradictory goals:  To name two of them, Lincoln needed to retain the loyalty of the slave holding border states that stayed in the Union while also refusing to compromise on the issue which led to the secession in the first place, the refusal to allow the expansion of slavery.  He also had to ensure that the Confederacy received no diplomatic legitimacy.  The political impacted on the military strategy.  Much of this was beyond the grasp of the military generals and Lincoln had to lead aggressively.  By contrast, Jefferson Davis, graduate of West Point, seemed completely oblivious to the need to formulate a larger political strategy.<br />In discussing Clemenceau's leadership in the waning years of WWI when the French faced catastrophe, Cohen shows how Clemenceau played two military commanders Foch, with his offensive tendency and Petain, promoter of the doctrine of \\"defense in depth\\", off against each other.  He reconciled the differences in tactics and doctrines and ultimately helped ensure the success of the French army.  He educated himself with frequent trips to the front to see the situation first hand.  Churchill, was known for his intense micro-management, not of individual battle tactics but of military strategy.  Churchill, having seen the debacles of the first world war was determined that no decisions would be made on the basis of faulty assumptions.  As such he questioned his officers and generals intensively and constantly.  The officers resented this but such a management style enabled Churchill to base decisions on facts not on conjecture.  Churchill's supple mind, much like Lincoln's enabled him at all times to reconcile distant and sometimes competing goals, including the political management of a difficult alliance.  WWII was an intensely political war and considerations of state pervaded almost every strategic decision taken.  Churchill's genius as a war leader was his ability to bring each disparate element together into a cohesive whole.<br />Ben-Gurion had to fight a very different kind of war.  As head of a fledgling state with no genuine army, in 1948 he was not only required to formulate military and political strategy, to enable Israel to survive an onslaught of Arab armies, Ben-Gurion was forced to create a modern disciplined army from scratch.  In this he succeeded brilliantly.  From Ben-Gurion's standpoint, the key was the imposition of discipline, from subordinate to superior officer and from military to civilian command.<br />In the last part of the book, Cohen examines and contrasts the military/civilian relationship in the Gulf War and the Vietnam War.  Contrary to popular wisdom, civilian leadership did not interfere excessively with the military in Vietnam.  As Cohen argues, contrary to the leadership of Churchill, Lincoln et al., the Johnson administration failed to question the assumptions on which the military based its recommendations and strategies.  It failed to challenge the military to find a way to comport military tactics with political realties.  With the more recent Gulf War, Cohen is critical of the extent to which political generals like Colin Powell were able to substitute their own views for those of the elected civilian leadership.  He cites the well-known \\"Powell Doctrine\\" on the use of military force as a completely inappropriate usurpation of civilian prerogative by the military.<br />This is a thought provoking and extremely interesting book which I recommend to all interested in military and political history.	2003-06-13
US	52552835	R7ZJ7LWHMR6ZJ	B00006G9KL	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	4	9	12	N	N	It was Right to Drop the Bomb	Perhaps no aspect of World War II is less known to the general public than the final months between Germany's May surrender and August when Japan finally capitulated.  Consequently an entire revisionist myth has been allowed to crop up and gain general acceptance.  This myth states that the dropping of the Atomic bombs were unnecessary, that Japan was on the verge of surrender, that the bomb's were dropped to intimidate the Sovets, that the bombs were dropped on Japan out of American rascism etc.  In this fascinating book, Richard Frank, through meticulous research and analysis, fully footnoted puts the lie to each of these.  Written from the perspective both of the United States and the Imperial government, Downfall demonstrates how the Japanese had no intention of surrendering and, to the contrary, were preparing the Homeland for a massive invasion.  As Frank describes, any talk of surrender by the Japanese was more along the lines of the 1918 German surrender whereby the losing power got favorable terms and kept foreign troops off its soil.  The treaty of Versailles was widely regarded as a disaster directly responsible for the second world war and no one in the United States government would have seriously entertained an armistace which did not permit the dismantling of the Japanese system, with or without the emperor.   It was not until the dropping of both bombs, that a significant faction in the Japanese government thought to stop the war and even then it was touch and go as a coup by hardliners nearly derailed the settlement.  <br />As for the United States, as Frank shows, all intelligence reports indicated in July that the Japanese would not end the war and allow Allied troops on their soil without a massive invasion.  Even after a succesful invasion with estimated Allied casualties  of nearly one million and unthinkable amounts of Japanese casualties, allied planners feared a formal capitualtion could not be secured and guerilla warfare could continue.  When the bomb became available, it was simply inconceivable that it would not be used in an effort to secure surrender without the need for invasion.  As for the bomb's morality, Frank makes the perfect case that its use was the moral choice.  Besides the fact that Tokyo had more dead from conventional fire bombings, the planned Allied blocade would have led to the starvation of 5 to 6 million Japanese when the railways were completely destroyed.  This fact is often forgotten.  Furthermore, the United States rightly assumed that each and every prisoner of war held in Japan would have been lost in the event of an invasion.  As for the cannard that Truman wanted to intimidate the Soviets, Frank shows that to be nonsense.  Indeed, in July 1945, still expecting an invasion, Truman at Potsdam, was urging Stalin into the war.  And without question, if necessary, the bomb would have been dropped on Germany.  In the end, however, the case is proven simply by the fact that untold millions would have died had the war continued as it clearly would have.  Not just Allied forces but millions of innocent Japanese civilians.  As Frank eloquently argues, the victims of the bombs had no greater right to life than the millions who were saved.  War is a great tragedy and this war the greatest of them all.  But to focus in on the deaths of Hiroshima and Nagasaki (tragic as they were) while ignoring the fifty million other deaths as well as the millions and millions that would have been killed is the worst kind of revisionism.  This book should be read.	2003-05-26
US	52552835	R3A43U50D60L87	B00006G9KL	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	4	17	23	N	N	It was Right to Drop the Bomb	Perhaps no aspect of World War II is less known to the general public than the final months between Germany's May surrender and August when Japan finally capitulated.  Consequently an entire revisionist myth has been allowed to crop up and gain general acceptance.  This myth states that the dropping of the Atomic bombs were unnecessary, that Japan was on the verge of surrender, that the bomb's were dropped to intimidate the Sovets, that the bombs were dropped on Japan out of American rascism etc.  In this fascinating book, Richard Frank, through meticulous research and analysis, fully footnoted puts the lie to each of these.  Written from the perspective both of the United States and the Imperial government, Downfall demonstrates how the Japanese had no intention of surrendering and, to the contrary, were preparing the Homeland for a massive invasion.  As Frank describes, any talk of surrender by the Japanese was more along the lines of the 1918 German surrender whereby the losing power got favorable terms and kept foreign troops off its soil.  The treaty of Versailles was widely regarded as a disaster directly responsible for the second world war and no one in the United States government would have seriously entertained an armistace which did not permit the dismantling of the Japanese system, with or without the emperor.   It was not until the dropping of both bombs, that a significant faction in the Japanese government thought to stop the war and even then it was touch and go as a coup by hardliners nearly derailed the settlement.  <br />As for the United States, as Frank shows, all intelligence reports indicated in July that the Japanese would not end the war and allow Allied troops on their soil without a massive invasion.  Even after a succesful invasion with estimated Allied casualties  of nearly one million and unthinkable amounts of Japanese casualties, allied planners feared a formal capitualtion could not be secured and guerilla warfare could continue.  When the bomb became available, it was simply inconceivable that it would not be used in an effort to secure surrender without the need for invasion.  As for the bomb's morality, Frank makes the perfect case that its use was the moral choice.  Besides the fact that Tokyo had more dead from conventional fire bombings, the planned Allied blocade would have led to the starvation of 5 to 6 million Japanese when the railways were completely destroyed.  This fact is often forgotten.  Furthermore, the United States rightly assumed that each and every prisoner of war held in Japan would have been lost in the event of an invasion.  As for the cannard that Truman wanted to intimidate the Soviets, Frank shows that to be nonsense.  Indeed, in July 1945, still expecting an invasion, Truman at Potsdam, was urging Stalin into the war.  And without question, if necessary, the bomb would have been dropped on Germany.  In the end, however, the case is proven simply by the fact that untold millions would have died had the war continued as it clearly would have.  Not just Allied forces but millions of innocent Japanese civilians.  As Frank eloquently argues, the victims of the bombs had no greater right to life than the millions who were saved.  War is a great tragedy and this war the greatest of them all.  But to focus in on the deaths of Hiroshima and Nagasaki (tragic as they were) while ignoring the fifty million other deaths as well as the millions and millions that would have been killed is the worst kind of revisionism.  This book should be read.	2003-05-26
US	52552835	RF93YX0Y4YBNL	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	4	52	63	N	N	A Radical Thesis!	When I purchased this book, I thought I would be getting a documentation of the terrible history of the Catholic Church's treatment of the Jews.  It is that but it is so much more.  James Carroll is a former priest and professes to still be a believing Christian and a son of the Church.  In this book, Carroll not only lays out the brutal history of Christian Anti-Semitism in the West, he demonstrates how Anti-Semitism is built into the very structure of Christianity, indeed into the Gospels themselves.  This inherent Anti-Semitism, Carroll argues, made the Holocaust, if not inevitable, then at least possible and in fact likely.  <br /> After an introductory section in which Carroll presents some autobiographical material from his own life, he lays the book out chronologically beginning with the immediate aftermath of the death of Jesus right through the 20th century.  The book is filled with the history of Christian philosophy and theology that I, as a non-Christian, am no expert on.  Throughout his discussion, Carroll continually returns to what he considers to be the two roots of Anti-Semitism.  First, the Christian doctrine of supercessionism, the idea that Christianity is intended by God to supercede Judaism which Carroll argues is contrary to the thought and teachings of Jesus.  Second, the focus of Christianity on Jesus? death instead of his life, in other words, the Christian obsession with the cross, instead of Jesus' teachings.  In making his case, Carroll presents the radical notion, at least in Christian religious circles, that the Gospels do not present an accurate portrait of the crucifixion at all.  He believes that by the time they were being written, particularly the later Gospels, the followers of Jesus were already copying down a myth used to explain the death of the Messiah.  After tracing the increasingly disastrous history of the Jewish experience in Christian Europe, Carroll chronicles the rise of secular European Anti-Semitism.  The history culminates in the Holocaust in which, as Carroll and many others have shown, the anti-liberal Church did precious little to stop the murder of six million people.  Finally, Carroll reviews what he considers to be the Church's meager attempts at reform during Vatican II.    <br />In the last part of the book Carroll proposes a Vatican III council which would do nothing less than radically re-structure the Catholic Church and the Christian religion from top to bottom.  Beginning with the excising of supercessionist ideas from the scriptures, changing the focus from the death of Jesus to his life and message and culminating with a complete embrace of democracy and the free exchange of ideas while jettisoning the notion that the Church is somehow without sin.  Only in this manner, Carroll argues, can the Church break free of its ingrown Jew hatred.  <br />This book is extraordinarily provocative.  I cannot imagine a traditional Catholic even beginning to accept Carroll's ideas.  I am surprised, frankly, that the Church hasn?t reacted with greater anger.  As a non-Catholic, I will not begin to suggest what another religion should do to reform.  Much of what Carroll writes about the Church and the Jews is true, in my opinion.  And Catholics should not be surprised that Jews do not rush to embrace them for every minor gesture the Church makes towards the Jewish people.  There is quite a lot to answer for.  I certainly recommend this book to free thinkers of all religions and it is my hope that Catholics will read this book and, even if not fully agreeing with Carroll, at least gaining an understanding of the issues he raises.	2003-03-03
US	52552835	R3J40YSVTF2DR8	0670031518	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	The battle of truth vs. ideology	The Blank Slate<br />What makes people behave the way we do?  How do our personality traits emerge?  Is it in our genes?  Is it in our environment?  Is it a combination of both?  Are characteristics ingrained in our species?  Or are we blank slates?  These are the questions tackled by MIT Psychologist Steven Pinker in this wonderful and voluminous book.  From the start, Pinker makes it clear that his purpose is to promote and support the view that human traits, that is to say human nature, is carried in our genes, that we are not blank slates molded by our environments.  His further purpose is to expose and destroy the arguments of those who reject the truth about human nature on political rather than scientific grounds.  He is very convincing in his arguments. <br /> In the first part of the book, Pinker presents a basic history of the philosophy and theories of human nature.  What emerges is that the philosophers we think of as \\"liberal\\" such as Hobbes, Locke and Machievelli, believe in an inherent human nature which society can temper through laws while the utopians do not believe in any inborn traits, that people can be molded in any way society sees fit.  As Pinker demonstrates, in the academic world, the liberal idea which formed much of the basis of the western enlightenment has been largely superceded by counter-intuitive ideas that people are either \\"noble savages\\" or \\"blank slates.\\"<br /> In the next part of the book, Pinker demonstrates the discoveries science has made into how the mind works.  In an easy to read manner, he shows how many human tendencies are rooted in evolutionary selection and are controlled by inherited genes.  Pinker's real purpose in writing this book, however, is not to present a history of the development of evolutionary psychology.  Rather his purpose is to show how the intrusion of political ideology of both the right and left has infected this academic discipline, rendering pursuit of scientific truth secondary to justificationof a series of pre-ordained conclusion.  For this reason, the \\"Blank Slate\\" is among the most important books of recent years.  As Pinker demonstrates, there are real consequences to the savaging of any scientist whose conclusions do not meet with the accepted theory that human beings are blank slates to be molded as society sees fit.  The book is filled with examples of accepted dogma that does not fit with scientific evidence.  Pinker not only demolishes some of these dogmatic beliefs that defy logic and factual analysis, he demonstrates the moral and philosophical foolishness of such beliefs.  As Pinker demonstrates, the accepted dogma is that criminal tendencies are acquired, not inborn.  But the argument the proponents of the blank slate seem to make is that if a behavior is inborn it cannot be immoral or otherwise wrong.  Therefore, since criminal behavior is wrong, it cannot be inborn.  As Pinker convincingly argues, this line of reasoning is not only fallacious but dangerous.  The proponents of the blank slate have left themselves no moral wiggle room if and when their argument is proven false.  If traits are truly proven to be inborn, then the blank slate proponents would have no choice but to argue that such behavior is not wrong.  Pinker avoids this twisted reasoning because, as he rightly asserts, just because a tendency is inborn does MEAN that acting on that tendency is appropriate or anything other than immoral.  Morality is defined by society or God, if you like, not by our genetics.  The ultimate conclusion of the theory that society creates personality is that society can re-make personalities as it sees fit.  Pinker shows how this has led to disastrous experimentation on children and adults alike.  In its worst manifestation, it leads to the mass murder of a Pol Pot or Mao Tse Tung.  <br /> This book is part science, part philosophy and part political/social criticism.  It is always entertaining and hugely informative. If I have any criticism of the book at all, it is Pinker's complete lack of a discussion, even superficial, over the role played by social and environmental factors in overcoming genetically based traits and tendencies.  However, the complex interplay between the genetic markers which pre-determine many human tendencies and the environmental factors which influence those tendencies is clearly a subject for a different book.  Pinker's goal here is to demolish the dogmatists.  In this he succeeds. Any reader who values truth over dogma will enjoy and appreciate it.	2003-02-05
US	52552835	R3LGEVJA3VT6C9	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Portrait of a Leader	The events of September 11 changed the mindset of many people in this country, me included.  By way of full disclosure, I admit that I voted for Al Gore mainly because I thought that George W. Bush was a lightweight who would wilt in a crisis situation.  Events have proven me wrong.  In his latest book, veteran journalist Bob Woodward goes behind the scenes to see how the terrorist attacks changed President Bush and his cabinet and how this effected development of the subsequent war on terror.   It is not a history of the events in question.  How could it be given that the events are still going on?  Moreover, Woodward is no historian.  Rather it is an attempt, by a consummate insider, to give a near contemporaneous behind the scenes look at Bush and his principal advisers in the aftermath of the attacks.  In this he largely succeeds.<br />Woodward was given a good deal of access to the principals involved.  The book reveals a lot about the private personas of Bush, Vice-President Dick Chenney, Sec. of State Colin Powell, Defense Sec. Donald Rumsfeld, National Security Adviser Condaleeza Rice and CIA Director George Tenet.  These people comprised Bushs inner circle in his initial efforts to formulate an appropriate response both at home and abroad.  The book does not cover, except in passing, such important figures from the period as FBI Director Robert Mueller, Transportation Director Norman Mineta, Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge or Attorney General John Ashcroft.  Rather, Woodward sought to focus on those persons with close access to Bush.  This is because the real point of the book is to present a portrait of Bush as a leader at war.  The book covers in some detail the early meetings of the war cabinet and shows Bushs evolving thought and how his advisers effected that thought.  Powell is presented as the consummate diplomat, a dove who saw his role as countering the hawkish advice of Cheney and Rumsfeld.  Rice is revealed as a bit mercurial, her views constantly changing and evolving.  Bush himself is revealed to be thoroughly in control from the first moment, running the meetings with skill and demanding options and answers from his subordinates.<br />The events of 2001/2002 with which we are all familiar are presented from the back stage and we see how the administration actually reacted to accomplishments and set backs in Afghanistan as well as how much they feared a further attack.  Contrary to liberal opinion, Bush is not a puppet controlled by anyone, not Carl Rove, not Cheney and not the neo-conservatives.  Indeed Rove is scarcely mentioned.  There is not one indication that Bushs actions were based on personal political considerations or screened through his political advisers.  This is a welcome contrast with the previous Clinton administration.  Instead, all policy is shown to be a product of Bushs mindset that, in his own words, he should seize the opportunity to achieve big goals.  All Americans who are concerned for their futures should take some comfort to know that the President, rightly or wrongly, is sincerely determined to take the necessary action to preempt these grave dangers.  Democrats who are convinced that Bush is a puppet of his right wing advisers or who ridicule him as an empty suit controlled by others should take heed or they will be sorry.  It is just not so.<br />Woodward has received a good deal of criticism because the book is not a hatchet job.  Because it does not expose wrongdoing or chicanery, some feel he has not done his job.  Many have argued that Woodwards insider status has made it impossible for him to objectively analyze his subjects for fear of losing that access.  I find this to be quite unfair and a slander on this Pulitzer prize winning writer.  Woodwards purpose is to reveal to the public, Bush the war leader.  He clearly has no ax to grind with either side.  Because of this the book is slightly bland but I believe it presents a true portrait of Bush for better or for worse.  Mostly for better.  As a Gore voter, I have never been so glad my candidate lost.	2003-01-15
US	52552835	RODEUO20U6ZDH	1585671304	550308897	Burying Caesar: The Churchill-Chamberlain Rivalry	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Great Man and the Clerk From Birmingham!	Much has been written about Churchill's wilderness years in the 1930's ranging from the lavish praise of William Manchester to the scorn of a John Charmley. I have never before seen a history covering the precise topic of this book which is the rivalry between Churchill and Neville Chamberlain during the decade which began with Churchill an ostracized outcast and Chamberlain a rising star and yet ended with Chamberlain a scorned failure and Churchill a triumphant war leader.<br /> Young British historian Graham Stewart has put together a massive and meticulous study of just how and why events played out as they did between the two men. American readers be warned, this book is extremely British in tone, use of idiom and most of all, in its intricate discussion of British Parliamentary politics in the thirties. Stewart certainly assumes his readers are aware of the British electoral and Parliamentary system and the way it works. I myself, an American reader, am not but this was not too much of a handicap as I was able to follow the story without too much difficulty.<br /> The first part of the book provides a good deal of background on British politics from the age of Churchill's father, Randolph and Chamberlain's father Joseph through the beginning of the twenties. Stewart describes the rise and fall of various parties, in particular the National Liberals of Lloyd George in the early twenties. While Chamberlain was not a player in national politics during the twenties (although his brother Austen was), Churchill was at the height of his influence, having left the Liberal party and slowly edging back towards the Conservatives. Stanley Baldwin would make him Chancellor of the Exchequer and Churchill became a full fledged Conservative once again in 1925. Further chapters describe the Conservative's loss to a Labour/Liberal coalition and Churchill's resignation from the shadow cabinet over the \\"India Bill\\". When he gets to the thirties, Stewart covers the Parliamentary maneuvering in incredible detail. Contrary to popular belief, Churchill, though out of favor with the party powers, maintained his supporters, known as Winstonians. <br />Chamberlain was quite different than Churchill as Stewart demonstrates, unlike Churchill, his primary loyalty was to the party not to any specific principles. It was not for nothing that Churchill referred to him as \\"that clerk from Birmingham.\\" But this was the sort of man Baldwin was looking for. Churchill's first true breach with the party came over his demand that Britain re-arm in order to protect itself from the designs of Nazi Germany. Although his criticism of the Baldwin government was muted by his desire to regain office, Churchill consistently called for stronger defense preparation. After 1935, when it was clear he would never gain office under Baldwin, Churchill became a vocal and outspoken critic earning him the ire not only of the Conservatives but of the Labourites as well, who favored suicidal disarmament.<br />Chamberlain became prime minister in 1937 upon Baldwin's retirement. With no background in foreign affairs, he was immediately confronted with foreign crises caused by the growing belligerence of Nazi Germany, the Spanish Civil War and the actions of Fascist Italy. Despite the book's subtitle, there really was no rivalry between Churchill and Chamberlain until the Munich crisis of 1938. At this point Churchill moved into open opposition with his own party by delivering one of the most eloquent addresses of his career, denouncing the Munich pact before the House of Commons. This is the best part of the book. Stewart is never unfair to either man and not at all a revisionist. Nevertheless, he never hesitates to point out the fantastic assumptions upon which Chamberlain based his policy of appeasement. A most interesting point is how little Churchill actively did to maneuver himself into power. Although an outspoken opponent of appeasement, Churchill did nothing either publiclyor privately to create the conditions which led to his return to office and his eventual ascension to the prime minister's office. In fact, once he joined the government and the war cabinet upon the outbreak of war, he muted his criticisms of Chamberlain and became a loyal soldier. In the end, despite his best laid plans and hopes, Chamberlain died a sad and broken man, his policy of appeasement in ruins. Churchill ascended to the ultimate heights of greatness in which he is held today. The reader of this book will learn a great deal about Churchill about whom much has been written as well as a great deal about Chamberlain about whom less has been written. Once the story begins to focus on the rising menace of Naziism, it is always riveting and frequently fascinating. The book is dense, scholarly and yet eminently readable. I thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it to any serious reader of history.	2002-12-31
US	52552835	R1614CMWB9H6O5	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	3	35	38	N	N	The Battle over Germany's Future	A subject which is not so commonly explored in the history of WWII is the struggle to decide the future of Germany in order to avoid yet another war.  This is thr subject of historian Michael Beschloss's latest work.  The title is a little misleading in that it does not focus solely or even primarily on Roosevelt and Truman.  Rather Beschloss, in a manner similar to David Halberstam and Stephen Ambrose takes a narrative, expositional and non-scholarly linear approach to the subject. One character who plays a major role in this book is Henry Morgenthau, Roosevelt's Jewish Treasury secretary.  Sickened by what he learns of German atrocities, Morgenthau is convinved to promote a plan that calls for Germany to be turned into a series of agricultural cantons with all its industry destroyed.  Secretary of State Cordell Hull and Secretary of War Henry Stimson are opposed to the plan and work to undermine it.  Roosevelt is seen as an increasingly distant figure.  His method of playing one aid off another while keeping his true thoughts to himself ultimately undermines his successor Truman, who upon taking office knows nothing of Roosevelt's thinking and is forced to improvise,  Churchill is reduced to irrelevance, his ideas largely ignored by FDR.  I do not fully agree with Beschloss's thesis.  As far as I can see, no comprehensive plan for the fate of Germany was ever agreed upon.  During the earlier years of the war, through June 1944, Roosevelt was overly concerned with keeping Stalin happy for important reasons.  He was afraid Stalin would make a separate peace with Hitler.  He failed to foresee the break down of the alliance and the need to check the Soviets.  As it turned out, none of the plans worked out as well as the reality.  No one foresaw the permanent division of Germany or that Conrad Adenaur would turn West Germany firmly towards the orbit of the United States and away from reunion with the East,thereby destroying forever the old style German nationalism.  Beschloss spends a lot of time chronicling the various plans that were proposed and not enough on why none of those plans ever came to pass.  The book makes for easy reading and you do not have to know much history of this era to enjoy it.  I learned a lot about some figures such as Morgenthau of whom I knew little.  I would recommend it but do not take it as gospel.	2002-12-22
US	52552835	RNZ7U8L1WQLSU	0471132292	727926057	In Search of Churchill: A Historian's Journey	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Discovering the Real Winston!	The life of Winston Churchill was so eventful and the available documents relating to his life so voluminous, that penning a complete and unabridged biography of Churchill is truly a lifetime task.  So it has been for British historian Martin Gilbert, charged with the task of being Churchill?s official biographer.  In this book, Gilbert recounts the events by which he came to become the most extensive living resource of Churchill knowledge and artifacts.<br />Gilbert came to his task in a roundabout way.  Fresh out of Oxford in the early sixties, the young historian concedes he knew comparatively little about Churchill as the great man was not a highly regarded figure among the Oxford academy at that time.  Churchill?s son Randolph had been hired by a publishing house to write the multi volume official biography of his father.  Gilbert was hired as one of several research assistants.  Expecting to stay with Randolph only a short time, Gilbert ended up working with him for more than half a decade.  In the first part of the book, Gilbert describes the experience of working with the mercurial and difficult Randolph in putting together the first volumes covering Churchill?s early life.  On Randolph?s death in 1968, Gilbert was asked by the publisher to take over the project.  Gilbert agreed to do so and a lifetime task was set before him.  In ensuing chapters, Gilbert describes his frustrations and pleasures at the enormous amount of written materials by or about Churchill.  Perhaps no other historical figure has such an extensive archive.  As recounted by Gilbert, his explorations of Churchill?s letters and papers taught him much, not only about Churchill?s impact on British and world history but about Churchill?s character.  Yet as Gilbert states, no historical figure can be brought to life merely on the basis of written documents.  Fortunately for Gilbert, at the time he did much of his research, in the sixties, many of the people in Churchill?s life were still aliveto be interviewed.  This includes many of his secretaries, a number of military and political figures with whom he worked and his wife and children.  From decades of research, Gilbert emerged with a compelling portrait of a truly great character.  A man, not without his faults but still a great liberal, a great democrat, a great leader and a great family man.  The book is filled with anecdotes and quotes from Churchill.  As one example, Gilbert discovered a letter of response from Labour Prime Minister Ramsey McDonald praising Churchill for his kindness and friendship.  Gilbert never found the original letter Churchill wrote to McDonald but wonders what it could have said to elicit such a response from a man Churchill had referred to in open Parliament as ?the boneless wonder?. <br />Anyone who admirers Winston Churchill and Martin Gilbert must read this book. It is an absolute necessity to any Churchill library.  Anyone who would like to learn a little about one of the 20th centuries truly great figures should read it as well.	2002-12-08
US	52552835	RC5XML496H8ZH	0060004436	126782068	Power Plays: Win or Lose--How History's Great Political Leaders Play the Game	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Some Valuable Insights But Not WIthout Its Flaws	Dick Morris, well known political operative and architect of Clinton's 1996 \\"triangulation\\" strategy has attempted to write a book of political history. He partially succeeds and partially fails.  In this book, Morris looks at a number of different political figures from the 19th and 20th century.  (Actually, except for Lincoln, all are from the 20th century) In trying to analyze why some had success and others failed, Morris breaks his stories into categories of strategies.  Some politicians such as Churchill and De Gaulle are regarded as having stood up for their beliefs while waiting for others to come around to their view.  Others are regarded as having triangulated their positions between two opposing views. These would include G.W. Bush and Clinton of course.  He also examines politicians who exploited new technologies such as FDR with radio and JFK with television.  The book is generally interesting but Morris has two major problems.  First, he sees all policy advocated by political figures as strategic.  This is certainly what I would associate with the Clinton administration but I hardly think that Churchill had electoral strategy in mind when he entered the wildreness for a dozen years.  Morris fails or perhaps cannot differentiate governing from running for office.  The other problem is in his insistence on forcing square pegs into round holes.  There is really very little similarity between De Gaulle's France and Lincoln's pre-Civil War united States.  Nor can Wilson's problems in selling the Versailles treaty be equated with actually running for office.  In my view, Morris would have done better to simply take a dozen or so of these stories and looked at each one as unique while using his expertise in electoral strategy to show what a political figure did right or wrong.  To force each story into a few very broad categories weakens this book considerably.  I would still recommend reading it, however.	2002-11-16
US	52552835	R3ELLI641VBW5G	1400031133	782925714	An Autumn of War: What America Learned from September 11 and the War on Terrorism	Books	5	73	90	N	Y	Hanson Makes Me Proud To Be An American!	Anyone familiar with the writing of Victor Davis Hanson, a professor of classics and journalist, knows his views on the subject of this book.  He is a passionate defender of American greatness, hates the tyrants of the world with all his soul and has nothing but scorn for the appeasers and bashers of America among the intellectual elite.  All these views are well amplified in this book, a collection of essays published, mainly in National Review Online, between September 12 and December 31, 2001.  The topics are far ranging and the tones of the essays vary considerably.  In many, Hanson writes with an eloquent passion in defense of Western civilization and Western values.  Indeed, his words may be called Churchillian.  (One essay is entitled \\"What Would Churchill Say\\" and liberally quotes the great man.)  In other essays, Hanson envokes important military figures from the past such as Sherman to demonstrate his view that the great Western nations go to war reluctantly but with an unrelenting savage fury.  Other essays are satirical in tone including one in which he imagines the modern media covering the Doolittle raid on Tokyo.  The most inventive essay is one in which he conducts an \\"interview\\" with Thucydides, the great chronicler of the Peloponesian War by interposing questions about the war on Islamic fascism with actual quotations (complete with citations) from Thucydides himself.<br />Hanson is no lightweight pundit.  The man is a brilliant scholar filled with passionate yet truthful opinions. He amply supports those opinions through the exploration of history.  This excellent book is a welcome antidote to the venom produced by the left and the pablum produced by most of our punditocracy.  Hanson fills me with pride in being an American.  His writing is never jingoistic but always passionate and patriotic.  If you feel pessimistic and think maybe America's day has passed, read this book.  It will make you feel better.	2002-10-24
US	52552835	R2YGG74N57B8W4	0300097697	59807480	Churchill: Visionary. Statesman. Historian.	Books	4	15	16	N	N	An Ode to Greatness	John Lukacs has written a number of books about and involving Winston Churchill.  Most deal with his role in World War II.  In this little volume, really just an extended essay, he waxes poetic on a man he clearly admires deeply.  The book is divided into short chapters in which Lukacs considers a number of different aspects of Churchill's character and personality.  First he considers Churchill as a visionary by examining some of Churchill's well known, Cassandra-like predictions such as the danger of Hitler and after the war of Soviet aggression.  In the section on Churchill as statesman, Lukacs looks at Churchill's complicated relationships with Stalin, Roosevelt and Eisenhower.  Lukacs also discusses Churchill's views on Britain's relationship with Europe and his take on the policy of appeasement.  In a chapter on Churchill as historian, Lukacs looks critically at Churchill's most important works, in particular, his \\"Life of Marlborough\\", his biography of his father, \\"Lord Randolph Churchill\\" and his history of the First World War, the \\"World Crisis\\".  Lukacs appreciates Churchill's talents as an artist of the written word.  He demonstrates why Churchill's work succeeds not just as history but as literature.  In the next section, Lukacs effectively refutes Churchill's severest revisionist critics in a chapter entitled \\"His Failures, His Critics\\".  It may interest the reader to know that their exist so-called historians whose purpose in life seems to be to blame Churchill either for fighting Hitler or for losing the empire and world leadership to the United States.  As Lukacs argues, this is ridiculous.   Finally, in a beautiful essay that is alone worth the price of the book, Lukacs describes his feelings while attending Churchill's state funeral in 1965.  <br />Quite a bit is covered in such a small book but as a Churchillphile, I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Lukacs has a true appreciation of human greatness and this book demonstrates why Churchill was a great man,one of the greatest of the modern era.  Great does not mean perfect of course and Lukacs eloquently explains why Churchill, with all his flaws, was truly great.  This is not a book of history or an appropriate reference for a study of Churchill.  Nor is it the proper starting point for one seeking to learn about Churchill's life.  But for one who already loves and reveres the memory of this great man, this book is balm for the soul.  It makes the case, quite clearly for Churchill's greatness.  It is at once poignant and eloquent.  It is well worth reading.	2002-10-03
US	52552835	RELJFEW6L0EE8	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The History of Western Diplomacy in all its Gory Glory!	Henry Kissinger is many things, that is for sure.  But one thing he definitely is, is a brilliant elucidator of history.  In this book, published in 1994, Kissinger sets before himself nothing less than the task of reviewing the entire history of western diplomacy from the Peace of Westphalia, which ended the bloody Thirty Years War and essentially established the idea of the modern nation state to the Post Cold War order, just emerging as this book went to press.<br />One can disagree with Kissinger over some of the conclusions he reaches yet fully appreciate his grasp of the complexity of the relationship between states.  Kissinger describes, in considerable detail, the changing and evolving relationship between the states of Europe and the changing and evolving American role.  The book begins with a chapter describing the competing approaches of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson to American foreign policy.  Roosevelt was a classic believer in \\"Raison Detate\\" a French term meaning pursuit of state interest.  Wilson promoted a universal policy based on morality.  As Kissinger demonstrates, every American administration since Wilson has pursued some form of Wilsonian diplomacy based on American exceptionalism.  Prior to Roosevelt, the United States stood almost completely aloof from the diplomacy of the Old World, confining itself to pursuing a Europe free Western Hemisphere and trade relations.<br />Kissinger demonstrates how the aftermath of the Napoleonic wars led to a new international order in Europe based on the balance of power.  The whole purpose behind the \\"concert of Europe\\" system was to ensure that no state became too powerful.  Kissinger looks at the differences of each of the European powers and how they pursued their interests and how this pursuit ultimately led to disaster in the twentieth century.  Britain tried to stand apart from European alliances, seeing its interests in having the world's most powerful navy and ensuring that no European land power became too dominant.  As Kissinger shows, morality never entered into the equation.  Britain went to war with France when Napoleon became too powerful and later clashed with the other powers for the same reason.  France, stunted after the defeat of Napoleon engaged in a policy designed to regain its influence as the dominant land power of Europe, a policy it pursues to this day according to Kissinger.  Russia is shown to be expansionist to its core and Kissinger argues convincingly that Soviet designs on Eastern Europe were simply an extension of Tsarist policy.  Germany, once unified in 1870 by the machinations of Bismarck was ultimately bound to run afoul of both Britain and France due to its potential strength and size.  Indeed, it was Germany's emergence as a unified and powerful nationalist force that made the tragedies of the 20th century inevitable.  Skillful and complex diplomacy by Bismarck staved off the coming catastrophe, his unwise successors and the myopic Kaiser who fired him were unable to pursue, or even understand, Bismarck's dual strategy of increasing German influence while maintaining the balance of power.<br />Kissinger is clearly at his best when describing the breakdown of the complicated alliance system that led to the catastrophe of the First World War.  He also is adept at explaining the flaws inherent in the treaty of Versailles that made World War II inevitable.  Finally, the book arrives at the aftermath of  the War, when the United States, with its disdain for balance of power diplomacy and its determination to halt Soviet/communist aggression, became the major player on the world scene.  Whichever the administration, all viewed the Cold War, not as an assertion of American national interest but as the promotion of international morality.  As Kissinger shows, this is the hallmark of American diplomacy.<br />Since Kissinger himself was a major player on the world scene during the years from 1969 through 1976 and so his discussion of this era requires a delicate balancing act and may engender controversy.  I feel that, on the whole, Kissinger avoids being overly defensive as he describes and defends the policy of the Nixon administration.  Others may feel his views as stated in this book might not fully coincide with his actions as the chief foreign policy architect of the Nixon and Ford administrations.  When it comes to Vietnam, Kissinger makes a strong case that Nixon was a victim of a national situation that was beyond his control.  He argues convincingly that Hanoi itself is responsible for extending the war to Cambodia.  He ignores, however, the illegal action the Nixon administration took by lying to Congress.  Nevertheless, this is a book on statecraft not a memoir of Nixon's Vietnam policy so these lapses are forgivable.  Kissinger shows quite convincingly, the many obstacles laid by Hanoi and the American Left to reaching a settlement in Vietnam.  In the end, of course, the settlement reached broke down after a mere two years and so the United States was utterly defeated.  This demands an answer to the question of whether the United States gained anything by refusing to abandon the effort in 1968 when Kissinger claims the administration knew South Vietnam's survival was virtually impossible.  Kissinger also defends the Nixon's administration's policy of detente while giving fair time to detente's detractors.  He winds up the book with a look at the end of the Cold War, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the emergence of a new world order.  He presciently closes the book by stating that it is not yet clear whether the next international challenge will come from a strengthening China or militant Islam.  <br /> Henry Kissinger is a polarizing figure disdained by many.  The hard left views him as a war criminal.  The right views him as alternatively a defeatist or an international chess player, lacking the morality they demand in American foreign policy.  One thing that is beyond denial, however, is that he is a brilliant historian and teacher of the nuances of international diplomacy.  Any fair minded person will relish his book.	2002-10-01
US	52552835	R2IR46NJ7YYH7J	0395410568	243604121	002: Their Finest Hour (The Second World War)	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	France's Craven Surrender! Britain's Lonely Stand!	In six remarkable volumes, the incomparable Winston Churchill sets forth the Second World War in enormous detail and largely from his own personal perspective as Great Britain's Prime Minister.  In this, the second volume, Churchill sets forth the events of the year 1940, the momentous period when France fell to the Nazi tyrants and Britain stood alone against Hitler's onslaught.  The book is divided into two parts.  In the first part, Churchill explains just how and why France was defeated and how she came to capitulate to the Nazis in defiance of her pledge to Britain to keep fighting.  I have never seen such a detailed description of  the political arguments and considerations that went into this decision.  The book is invaluable for this reason alone.  Also detailed are the military setbacks that led to the French surrender and necessitated the British evacuation at Dunkirk.  Churchill reprints many of his communications with other world leaders, such as President Roosevelt, his own ministers and military leaders and his communications with Parliament and the British public.  <br />After the French removal from the war, Great Britain stood alone in defiance of Hitler.  Churchill makes it clear, however, that as British home defense became stronger and stronger, he remained confident that his country could repel any invasion.  This did not save the nation from the horrors of the German blitz and this is described in detail, including Churchill's own experience in a bomb shelter.  The specifics of the Battle of Britain, the first major air battle in history and the growing war at sea are also explored as is the growing relationship between the United States and Britain.<br />The year 1940 is the year Britain survived on her own and was the only year in which invasion was a genuine possibility.  Yet from the American stand point it is one of the most neglected periods of the war.  Churchill's writing is elegant and accessible at the same time.  This is true of allhis works.  The book and Churchill's memos and other internal communications reveals that even in this difficult and trying year, he always had a strategic vision of victory.  Much of what Churchill predicted came to pass after many hard and deadly years.  But in the year 1940, ultimate victory seemed impossible.  Indeed subjugation seemed a realistic possibility.  Without the leadership of Churchill, it is doubtful Britain would have stood defiant.  After 1941, Britain's role in the war was diminished and then eclipsed by that of the United States and the Soviet Union.  Churchill recognized and indeed welcomed this inevitable development and covers it in the subsequent volumes.  But without question, 1940 was Britain's \\"finest hour.\\"  Read all six books in this series.	2002-09-10
US	52552835	R3M44ABWR8WQ59	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Inside Ronald Reagan and his White House	The quest to understand the presidency of Ronald Reagan is one best undertaken by someone without a stake in the outcome.  This is true of most political figures and it is true of Reagan as well.  In general, I dislike books written by sycophants and I can't stand attack books written by partisan political opponents.  It is for this reason that Lou Cannon's dense history of the Reagan White House is such a pleasure.  Originally written in 1990, the book was revised in 2000.  This is good because the ensuing decade lends some historical perspective to Reagan's years in Washington.  In 1990, Gorbachev was still running the Soviet Union, nobody knew who Bill Clinton was and the economic expansion of the 90's was well in the future.<br />  Cannon, a veteran journalist spent years covering Reagan and is clearly fascinated by him. The book is not a biography of Reagan.  His years prior to 1980 are only briefly touched on.  It is a history of Reagan's presidency.  As such Canon provides detailed portraits, not just of Reagan but of most of the important players such as James Baker, Mike Deaver, Edwin Meese, Donald Regan, William Casey, Casper Weinberger, George Schultz and others.  Reagan is shown to have been neither the detached idiot savant that his detractors like to portray nor the shrewd movement conservative that his loving fans on the political right recall.  Reagan was above all a simple man with a good deal of common sense who believed in a few core principals.  One of those principals and the key to his presidency was his relentless optimism.  At a time when the United States seemed to be running out of gas, when the communism appeared to be here to stay, when Americans were losing hope in their future, Reagan never wavered in his belief that the future was bright and that the Soviet Union was doomed.  This \\"vision\\" was Reagan's greatest attribute and the reason why he was adored by so much of America in spite of all his other flaws.<br />Cannon of course documents Reagan's shortcomings, which were considerable.  Reagan was unable to even comprehend many of the intricacies of public policy and was thus dependent to a huge extent on his advisors and subordinates.  Yet he was curiously unable to effectively manage his cabinet and White House staff.  When policy advisors disagreed, Reagan often proved unable to reconcile the differences.   And yet raw intelligence or book smarts are not the key to a successful presidency as Jimmy Carter learned.  Reagan's dream of a better future, his instinctive fear and hatred of nuclear weapons, his relentless belief in the economic strength of  American industry helped drive an administration that tried to put his vision into action as policy.  <br />The scandals are covered as well, in particular the Iran-Contra affair and, as Cannon demonstrates, these scandals were an inevitable outcome of Reagan's remarkably detached management style as subordinates were allowed to run amok.  In the final chapter, Cannon concludes that Reagan \\"may not have been a great president but he was a great American.\\"  I agree with this assessment.    The ability to manage staff is a key and vital part of being president.  Reagan was not the only one to have trouble in this regard.  But a key component to greatness is the imagination and vision to see a different and better future.  This a trait shared by such diverse figures as Lincoln, both Roosevelts and Churchill.  It is sorely lacking in most of our so-called leaders today of both parties.  For anyone interested in understanding Ronald Reagan and his eight years in Washington, this book is the standard.	2002-08-09
US	52552835	R1C93T1QJN0OC1	1586481304	765097948	HOW DID THIS HAPPEN? Terrorism and the New War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Good First Impression of the American Challenge	The question that is the title of this book is one that will be pondered over for a very very long time.  Obviously the 9/11 attacks had many causes from the roots of the \\"jihad\\" against us to the failures of security and intelligence operations.  In this book, published shortly after the attacks, the editors of \\"Foreign Affairs\\" have gathered together a diverse group of experts on various subjects relating to the terrible events of that day and asked each to submit a short essay on their particular area of expertise.  The first group concern Islam, the Middle East and the U.S. role in the region. Brian Jenkins attempts to dissect the Al Quaeda organization.  Fouad Ajami, a foreign affairs thinker I greatly admire, writes about the uneasy American presence in the Middle East and its relationship to the jihad against the West.  Michael Scott Doran also covers this subject from the perspective that the United States is intervening in an Islamic civil war.  Karen Armstrong, an expert on Islam, briefly examines the religion's history to demonstrate how Islam has no tradition of violence and the Medieval tradition of conquest was not inspired by the Koran.  It is her view that today's Islamic radicalism is a modern phenomenon.  Walter Laqueur, an expert on terrorism, contributes a fascinating piece on the changing tactics of terrorists.  He looks at the stark difference in scale of bloodshed between the nationalistic terrorists such as the IRA or the Basque Separatists who had at least rational goals, if not deplorable methods, and the nihilism of the Islamists.  Other essays look at the history of Afghanistan, the duplicitous role played by Saudi Arabia and Sandy Berger contributes an essay on Bin Laden's phony concern for the Palestinians.  The next series looks to issues of protecting the U.S. homeland.  William Weschler writes about the difficulties of cutting off Al Quaeda's finances.  Richard K. Betts discusses the difficulties of using counter-intelligence to thwart attacks.  Gregg Easterbrook documents the pathetic airline security.  Stephen Flynn demonstrates the pathetic state of homeland security on 9/11.  The remaining essays deal with such diverse issues as the threat of germ warfare, and how the U.S. needs to conduct the war on terrorism.  My personal favorite essay is by Michael Mandelbaum who writes about \\"diplomacy in wartime.\\"  Mandelbaum recognizes that diplomacy is not just about the carrot but also about the stick.<br />Due to its October 2001 publication date, some of this book seems out of date.  Nevertheless, it remains valuable as a documentation of the first impressions of a number of important thinkers to the challenges that lie ahead.  It does not explain \\"how this happened\\" nor does it set out to do so.  Someday, when the smoke clears, THE book on how and why this happened will surely be written.  Just as happened with the British nap of the thirties that allowed Hitler to become a mortal threat, we will eventually learn the true reason America slept for ten years while this horrendous threat got worse and worse.  This book is well worth reading, however, and provides some basic insight.	2002-08-06
US	52552835	R75SJMXB1UC4M	0805023968	352900823	Churchill: A Life	Books	5	42	49	N	Y	The Best One Volume Biography of Churchill	The 90 year life of Winston Churchill is so eventful and important, it is difficult to chronicle in a single volume.  Indeed, Churchill's official biography, of which Martin Gilbert was a major author and collaborator, consists of eight volumes.  That said, the average reader, interested in the facts of Churchill's life and times, does not have time to read multiple volumes.  Thus, a top quality single volume work becomes imperative.  <br />This is not simply a condensation of the eight volume work but is rather a new work in its own right, which draws on the eight volume work as a major source.  Gilbert also relies heavily on Churchill's own archives, the archives of his wife Clementine and the materials of important persons in Churchill's life such as Lady Asquith.  As with all of Gilbert's books, this volume is thorough, authoritative, factual and slightly prosaic.  One advantage though is that the book is liberally filled with Churchill's actual written and spoken words.  Churchill's words are never dull and liven up the text considerably.<br />The book follows Churchill's life in chronological order from his birth in 1874 through his death in 1965.  Although all aspects of his life are touched on, Gilbert's emphasis is on Churchill's public role.  The reader unfamiliar with Churchill will be amazed at the number of events of British history in which Churchill played a primary part.  In his early twenties, Churchill saw action as an officer and then as a journalist in a number of British colonial wars.  Most notably, he was taken prisoner by the Boers during the Boer war, from which he escaped.  Originally elected to Parliament as a Conservative during the reign of Victoria, Churchill soon broke with the Tories over the issue of tariffs, which Churchill adamantly opposed.  Joining the Liberals, Churchill soon rose to high office.  Together with David Lloyd George, Churchill was a major figure in the passage of numerous social and labor reforms.  By 1911, Churchill was named First Lord of the Admiralty, where he prepared the British Navy for the conflict with Germany that he sensed was coming.  Churchill's career stalled during the First World War when his sound plan to capture Constantinople via Gallipolli, was undermined by the military men charged with carrying it out, Churchill was forced to resign the Admiralty and ultimately saw action as the commander of a Brigade in France.  He returned to the cabinet as Minister of Munitions prior to the war's end.  After the war, Churchill served as Colonial Secretary where he supported the Zionist movement for a Jewish homeland in Palestine and had much to do with the issuance of the Balfour declaration.  He never wavered from his position that a Jewish homeland in Palestine was not only just but that it served British interest.  In this, as in so many other areas, Churchill stood largely alone.  In his role as Colonial Secretary, Churchill essentially created the modern Arab nation states including Egypt, Jordan and Iraq among others.<br />Churchill also served as Home Secretary where he worked out the settlement with Michael Collins and Sin Fein that created the Republic of Ireland.  Churchill moved away from the Liberals as they began to lose ground to the Labour party who he adamantly opposed.  For a number of years Churchill was essentially an independent supported by the Conservatives.  He was finally invited back into the Conservative fold, serving in the opposition shadow cabinet of Stanley Baldwin in the late 1920's. <br /> Churchill again broke with the Conservatives over the party's policy favoring centralized Indian home rule.  This was an issue over which all parties were largely in agreement yet Churchill was adamant in his opposition.  He believed that the end of the British Raj in India would lead to the Hindu persecution of lower castes and slaughter between Hindu and Muslim nationalists.  History has, of course, proven him right and gradual independence might have saved millions of lives. At the time, however, he was subjected to the worst ridicule and ostracized.  <br />Churchill's stance seemed to spell the end of his career.  All through the thirties, he maintained his seat in Parliament yet was never asked to serve in a government.  He was ignored, in succession by Ramsey McDonald (head of a Labour/Conservative coalition), Baldwin and Neville Chamberlain.  His warnings about Hitler, the threat from Germany and Britain's growing weakness were utterly ignored.  Only when the war began in September 1939 was Churchill invited back into the Admiralty and into the War Cabinet by Chamberlain.  Finally, in 1940, when Chamberlain was forced to resign, Churchill was asked by the King to take his place.  At 65, in the hour of Britain's greatest peril, Churchill was Prime Minister and the head of a national unity government determined to defeat the Nazi menace.  Gilbert spends a disproportionate amount of space on these vital five years.  At the age when most people are retiring, Churchill with enormous vitality was traveling the globe in support of the British war effort.  <br />Upon Germany's defeat, in July 1945, Churchill was promptly turned out of office and the Socialists took over.  He continued to lead the Conservative party in opposition and was returned to power in 1952.  At first, an outspoken critic of Stalin's Soviet Union (he coined the phrase \\"the iron curtain\\") Churchill came to favor a political resolution of differences between the West and the Soviets.  Finally, retiring as Prime Minister and head of the party in 1955 at the age of 81, Churchill's final words of advice to his successors was to \\"stand with the Americans.\\"<br />Winston Spencer Churchill is one of the pivotal figures of the twentieth century and one of the greatest men of all time.  This book does justice to his greatness.  For a much greater insight into Churchill's character and personal life, I recommend the two books in \\"The Last Lion\\" series by William Manchester.  This book is clearly superior to the recent biography by Roy Jenkins.  It is the finest one volume biography available.	2002-07-18
US	52552835	R2UUAHKJDMSRUG	1893554457	439951201	Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism	Books	4	29	36	N	Y	The Lonely Death of an Awful Idea	Despite their many differences, one thing all definitions of socialism have in common is the idea that economic competition is a negative thing to be eliminated while common ownership of resources is a positive to be achieved.  Few doctrines have been empirically tested as frequently and for as long as the theories of socialism.  All have proven to be abject failures.  Indeed, I think it can safely be said that experience has demonstrated that the implementation of socialism leads, at best to economic stagnation, at worst to mass slaughter.  In this interesting book, ex-socialist Joshua Muravchik explores the history of socialism from its beginnings to its inauspicious end through a series of portraits of leading socialist figures.  He traces the development of socialism from its early beginnings in the doctrine of radical equality and revolution promoted by Babeuf in early 19th century France and the utopian commune theory of Robert Owen in early 19th century America.  He then explores the \\"scientific socialism\\" of Marx and Engels which became a sort of secular religion to its adherents among the intellectual and educated classes.  The Marxian theory of \\"inevitability\\" was modified by Lenin who rather than waiting for the \\"proletariat\\" to bring the revolution, \\"imposed\\" the revolution on the peasantry of Russia.  Leninism of course degenerated into a murderous tyranny as did its cousin, fascism.  Muravchik also explores democratic socialism in Britain and third world socialism in Tanzania.  Democratic socialism did not descend into tyranny but proved incredibly ineffective as an economic system.  Socialism did descend into tyranny in much of the third world and led to mass starvation in many cases.  Finally, Muravchik explores the doctrine's inevitable end through the stories of Gorbachev in the Soviet Union, Deng in China and Tony Blair and \\"New Labour\\" in Britain.    <br />The book is never shrill in tone and despite  Muravchhik's obvious contempt for socialism in all its manifestations, he seems almost wistful and puzzled by how such a theory could become so popular and widespread.  Indeed he wonders how so many decent people like Clement Atlee could be so very wrong.   One thing Marivchik makes clear, however, is that the kind of progressive liberalism promoted in the United States and by the Liberal party in Britain can in no way be considered socialism.  Many on the far right consider any reform action by the government that impacts property rights or business practices to be socialism. To the contrary, such reformism, of the type promoted by the American Labor movement under Gompers and Meany are the exact opposite of socialism. As Muravhcik shows, while some regulation of market forces is necessary to maintain a decent society, the complete restriction of competition and economic incentive leads to economic ruin.  Nor can such restrictions be introduced without some sort of political coercion.  As Muravchik argues, in the one example of democratically implemented socialism, the Israeli Kibbutz, the members have voted socialism out of existence.   <br /> It is amazing that the most basic ideas of human nature  should be so ignored by so many bright people who should have known better.  And yet, as Muravchik shows, it was an idea adhered to religiously by millions.  What makes this book valuable is that it is history not doctrine.  What other idea has been so tested and so discredited?  The book is far from a complete and comprehensive tome on Socialism.  Indeed, it is light on theory and heavy on anecdote.  But it will be enjoyed by anyone interested in the history of the Western world.	2002-06-21
US	52552835	R2Y5Y02TCHR3XY	0060199733	242010890	Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World	Books	4	28	32	N	Y	The World According to Thatcher	Margaret Thatcher will surely go down in history as one of the great and enduring world leaders of the second half of the twentieth century . In this, likely her last book, Thatcher attempts the creation of a primer for the American and British statesman.  The book is broad and sweeping and eminently readable as Thatcher covers every region on earth and presents her views of the appropriate approach for the United States and Britain in its relations with foreign powers.  She also devotes a considerable number of words to her unmitigated hostility to the European Union that she considers negative in every conceivable way.  In her prescriptions for Britain she accepts those facts she regards as irreversible and, thus, her recommendations are clearly plausible and deserve to be considered seriously.   One does not have to agree with each and every pronouncement to appreciate the soundness of Thatcher's basic approach and to admire her refusal to bend her views to the popular.  <br />In her introduction, Thatcher distinguishes \\"statecraft\\" from \\"statesmanship\\" with the former containing an emphasis on \\"activity rather than rhetoric, strategy not just diplomacy.\\"  In the age of globalism, Thatcher is scornful of those statesman who see the world as they would like it to be rather than as it is.  Thatcher's pronouncements in this book are too broad to cover in this review but here is a sampling: She regards the United States as the only true global super power.  Thatcher is strongly against \\"internationalism\\", the tendency of states to subsume their sovereignty in favor of international organizations.  She is remarkably hostile to the European Union and its efforts to create a super-state to rival the United States.  She opposes the \\"euro\\" and argues that the subordination of national sovereignty to an organization she regards as a bullying anti-democratic bureaucracy to be a recipe for future disaster.  Thatcher would tie Britain to the economic and political fortunes ofthe United States, even proposing that Britain join NAFTA.  I think she is right to be suspicious of this organization.  Its dominant powers France and Germany certainly seek to use the Union to create a major rival to the United States.  The French would like to challenge American military dominance, the Germans, economic.  Thatcher believes this to be against Brtitish and American interests.<br />Thatcher is properly hostile to such international entities as the world criminal court.  She regards the court as a vehicle to subvert the superior legal systems of the U.S. and Britain and sees such international organizations being used to hurt the interests of the West.  She notes the dangerous precedent set by the case of Pinochet, where Spain demanded his extradition for alleged crimes committed in Chile.  Finally, Thatcher rails against \\"do-goodism\\" which assails common sense.  She cites as one of many examples of myopic western diplomacy, the arms embargo on the former Yugoslavia which had the effect of allowing the Serbs, who controlled the Yugoslav military, to maintain a vast superiority.  This, of course, had the effect of encouraging Serbian aggression, the opposite of the intended effect.  Thatcher's solution would have been to fully supply the Bosnian resisters of Serbian aggression.  This would have either deterred the aggression or at the very least forced the Serbs to the negotiation table.  That this is not seen by the diplomats of the West is very troubling.  <br />Most of Thatcher's arguments seem similarly logical.  Unlike those of the left, Thatcher never goes in for messianic visions of a perfect world.  Instead she applauds those nations who improve economically, politically and socially, while condemning those she regards as rogues or bad actors.  <br /> I would have given this book five stars if Lady Thatcher stuck to issues of international relations.  Unfortunately too much of the book is bogged down in her defense of capitalism and her assault on what she regards as socialism.  I certainly agree with her that the system of free enterprise continues to be under basic assault by much of the dominant powers of the world, the U.S. excepted.  But her attack on the regulatory  power of the state is overwrought and she goes too far.  One can agree that the system of free enterprise is just and appropriate and still believe that its inevitable inequities can be corrected by government action.  In any event, this is not a book about capitalism, but about statecraft.  Thatcher should save her philosophy of economics for another book.<BR> <BR>Nevertheless, Lady Thatcher is an impressive thinker with consistency and logic often on her side.  The key to statecraft is not to place the entire world into a single system but to know what situations require the carrot and which require the stick.  I do not see this wisdom in existence in either the American State Department or the British Foreign Ministry.  I certainly do not see it in the nations of Western Europe who foolishly often stand in opposition to American efforts to secure tranquility around the world..  Thatcher would promote the growth of free markets everywhere.  She would confront bad regimes and reward good regimes.  She would seek to deter aggression through the credible threat of force, not through endless talk, appeasement and unenforceable treaties.  You can quibble with her over the details.  After observing the world over the past twenty years, however, I have come to the conclusion that Thatcher's approach to the world is by and large the correct one.  Anyone with an open mind will enjoy and appreciate this book.  Filled with her personal observations and anecdotes, always readable and lively, this excellent book is must reading for anyone interested in the subject of international affairs.	2002-06-13
US	52552835	R11JQIMBLLOJTC	0195151747	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	5	234	260	N	Y	Six Days that Shook the World!	The events of June 1967 have been written about extensively.  Never before, however, has a book been published that not only chronicles the six days of the war itself but also the factors which led to it.  In this important new work,  Michael Oren looks back and comprehensively examines each and every aspect of the conflict.  <br />Oren presents the history from a military, diplomatic, political and cultural perspective.  Through the extensive examination of archives, official reports, memoirs and interviews with surviving figures, Oren details the roles played by all the major players from the perspective of, not just the Israelis but the Egyptians, Syrians and Jordanians as well as  the United States and the Soviet Union.<br />After beginning by presenting a brief synopsis of the Arab-Israeli conflict to that point, Oren describes the series of miscalculations by Nasser that led Egypt into war several years before he intended.  A combination of Syrian bellicosity, support of Palestinian terrorist incursions in Northern Israel together with the goading of his unstable general Amer, led Nasser to force the United Nations out of the de-militarized Sinai and to illegally close the Tiran straits to Israeli shipping, tantamount to a declaration of war.  As Oren clearly shows, war with Egypt was inevitable the moment the straits were closed.  No sovereign nation could ignore a blockade of its shipping.<br />Oren chronicles Israel's political struggle with the United States and the Soviet Union to permit an appropriate military response to Egypt's provocations..  Despite the clear act of war by Egypt, the Johnson administration, hobbled by Vietnam and fearful of a confrontation with the Soviets, urged Israel to show restraint.  Oren describes the agony of  Eskhol and the Israeli government in deciding how to attack preemptively without alienating the United States.  In the famous meeting between Abba Eban and President Johnson, Johnson practically urged Israel to absorb afirst strike.  The execrable Charles De Gaulle did overtly demand this.   Israeli military doctrine required the preemptive destruction of the enemy air forces.  The tension drove Rabin to a temporary breakdown and probably took years off Eskhol's life.<br />Once the war started with Israel's lightning strike on the Egyptian Air Force, Oren shows how events followed their own trajectory with Jordan drawn in and then Syria and Israel's military objectives changing on a constant basis.  Indeed, what becomes clear is that Israel never had any particular political objective other than the elimination of the direct existential threat.  Contrary to anti-Israel revisionists, Israel never had any specific designs on the West Bank or even the old city of Jerusalem.  Ironically, the decision to conquer the old city of Jerusalem was not made until he last possible moment, even after much of the West Bank was already in Israeli hands.   <br />From the Arab perspective, Oren shows just how and why the war turned into a disaster.  The Egyptian forces lacked any semblance of unified command or communications.  Nasser's officers were afraid to tell him the truth.  While her forces were in full retreat, her air force lying in ruins, Egypt continued to broadcast the basest propaganda that her forces were advancing towards Tel a Viv.  Hussein, meanwhile, was trapped by his fear of Nasser and the Syrian radicals into attacking Israel in Jerusalem.<br />  Also fascinating is the extent to which political and diplomatic considerations played a role in military strategy and increased Israeli casualties.  For example, Eskhol delayed for so long the decision to take the Golan heights, that the IDF was unable to take the proper preparatory steps which would have included artillery bombardments, air bombings and a night time attack.  Instead the brave soldiers of the IDF advanced straight into murderous Syrian fire.  This was true for the Jerusalem campaign as well.<br />Ultimately, the value of this book is that it shows the context of the war.  It is easy for revisionists to argue that Israel's conquests of the Golan and the West Bank were not necessary.  What Oren shows is that, with the exception of Jerusalem, the Israeli offensives were not for the purpose of expanding Israel's territory but purely for geo-political diplomatic purposes.  Once forced to fight, Israel was determined not to be forced to remain within indefensible cease fire lines as she was in 1948.  There is no question that Israel's basic war aims were to eliminate the offensive capabilities of the enemies on her border and to force them to the negotiating table.  Unfortunately, the nature of these regimes made a peaceful solution impossible and more bloodletting would be required.  <br />Oren contrasts the totalitarian Egyptian and Syrian regimes with the raucous  Israeli democracy where decisions on basic war strategy were taken by consensus in the famous \\"pit\\".  Oren makes a point of noting that, despite the general's dismay and outright disgust at Eskhol's restraint (borne of his fear of antagonizing the Soviets and the Americans), never for one moment did they consider disregarding his orders.  The hallmark of a true democracy is the subordination of the military to civilian command.  Nasser, by contrast, was in constant fear of military overthrow.  <br />Oren's dispassionate analysis reveals the positive and negative roles played by the major players in the drama.  The Mercurial Moshe Dyan does not come across as positively as his reputation would suggest.  His inscrutable nature would endanger Israel in 1973.  Eskhol is fully exonerated.  Indeed, when the full story is revealed, it is difficult to think of another Israeli political figure better suited to deal with the myriad of competing considerations.  Nasser comes across as more deluded and broken than evil.  Hussein appears to be a victim of forces beyond his control.  The Soviets are revealed in all their villainy.  This book is destined to be a true classic.  It will be to the Six Day War what \\"O Jerusalem\\" is to the War for Independence.  It is a must read for anyone interested in the history of Israel.	2002-06-11
US	52552835	R2XCLM9BL3R5PQ	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	5	54	60	N	Y	The Morality of the Great Emancipator: Trashes Revisionists	Perhaps no figure in American history has been the subject of more mythology, legend and revision than Abraham Lincoln.  He has been elevated to the status of Christ-like martyrdom.  He has been called a white supremacist and a racist.  Revisionists of the right have accused him of fomenting war to promote mercantile interests.  His motives and morality have been questioned.  His commitment to the anti-slavery cause has been questioned.  But who was the real Abraham Lincoln?  What were his true thoughts on the great issue of the day?  How did the prairie born son of illiterate pioneers become the most revered man in American History?<br />In this wonderful new book, William Lee Miller examines, not so much the events of Lincoln's life as the evolution of the character of the man historian Paul Johnson calls \\"a kind of moral genius.\\"  The book covers the years from Lincoln's birth until his inauguration in 1861.  In particular, Miller examines how Lincoln's politics can be squared with his morality.  Using Lincoln's own words, Miller effectively refutes the revisionists of both the right and the left and restores Lincoln to his rightful place as an American giant and irrepressible foe of slavery.    <br /> Miller is an unabashed admirer of Lincoln.  Through careful scholarship and relentless logic, the author dissects Lincoln's words and actions, explores his motivations and raises and disposes of revisionist arguments.  He does so in an amusing and folksy style that clearly reveals his affection and fascination with this greatest of all Americans.  All of the positive traits associated with Lincoln are shown to be true.  In speech after speech, Lincoln is revealed to be an intractable foe of slavery.  Miller's exploration of Lincoln's character show a living politician to be sure, but a politician who clearly sees the elective process as a path to his moral goals,  namely the containment and end of slavery.  Lincoln is revealed to be unusually conciliatory and non-vindictive.  For example, he placed Edwin Stanton in his cabinet despite Stanton's support for his Southern Democratic opponent and despite the fact that Lincoln was personally humiliated by Stanton years earlier.  Not many presidents would do that.  It reveals much about Lincoln's character. <br />Miller has no patience for arguments that attack Lincoln's character because he was not a morally pure abolitionist.   Miller places Lincoln's pragmatism in its proper context, given the opinions of the electorate Lincoln faced in Illinois and then nationally.  He also shows how Lincoln's pragmatic approach was in fact the moral and ethical method to solving as intractable a problem as American slavery.  He contrasts Lincoln's pragmatic moral approach with that of Stephen Douglas who Miller contends lacked any morality at all.  <br />During the vital six years between 1854 and Lincoln's election as President, Lincoln is shown to have developed a comprehensive and consistent moral perspective on slavery.  He thought it a terrible evil and planned for its ultimate destruction.  But Lincoln recognized that immediate abolition was not possible so the platform of the Republican party, which Lincoln helped build, was limited to the demand that slavery not be permitted in the territories.   Douglas had no belief that slavery was immoral and would have allowed its spread to the territories to preserve the peace and the union.  As Miller shows, there is no evidence that slavery was anything but Lincoln's prime concern from 1954 on.  The Civil War was fought because the Southern states could not abide the election of a president determined to halt the spread of slavery.  As Lincoln put it to Alexander Stephens after his election as president, \\"you think slavery is right and ought to be extended; while we think it is wrong and ought to be restricted.  That I suppose is the rub.\\"<BR> <BR>A key component of Lincoln's thinking that distinguishes him from many of his allies of the day ishis magnanimity, most famously reflected in his \\"malice towards none...\\" second inaugural.  Miller shows how this magnanimity was a key component of  Lincoln's moral thinking.  Lincoln always argued that slavery was an American, not merely a Southern problem.  He never personally condemned the Southerners who supported slavery but instead tried to understand them and his program always called for accommodating their fears and concerns.  In this book, Abraham Lincoln is revealed as a truly great American and a most moral man who proved to be a brilliant leader.  He comes across, not as a saint but as a living breathing human being with desires and passions but with a real commitment to justice.   This book should really be read by all college students as an example of how an American politician can be effective and still remain committed to his core principals.  The brilliant scholarship and lively style makes it a must read for anyone with an interest in American history.  I expect this book will be on many university history department reading lists.	2002-06-05
US	52552835	R1PZKCZSKDFTPZ	039541055X	243604121	001: The Gathering Storm (The Second World War)	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Brilliant, Insightful History/Memoir By A 20th Centruy Giant	Winston Churchill, in addition to his well-deserved reputation as a great war-time leader and statesman, also has a well-deserved reputation as a prolific author and historian.  His six volume history of the Second World War, recently re-issued and now readily available, part history, part memoir, is a must read original source for any student of the War.<br /> Obviously, what makes Churchill's history of the War unique is his involvement in so much of the narrative.  He is alone among the great leaders in recording his experiences of this period.  But this work is not merely a memoir of his role in the War but rather a complete work of historical scholarship in and of itself.  In this book, volume one, Churchill covers the period from the end of the Great War in 1919 until the invasion of France and the fall of the Chamberlain government in 1940.  The book is divided into two parts, the first \\"From War to War\\" briefly covers developments in Britain and Germany during the twenties that relate to the rise of Hitler and the growing menace of Germany in the thirties.  The bulk of this section is devoted to the folly of Britain and France in allowing a toothless Germany to reach military parity with and then greatly surpass the abilities of the two Democracies.  Churchill covers all the major events and gives his views on them, including his exclusion from the government and his frustrating inability to affect the course of events.  His criticism is surprisingly muted, however.  In his characteristic way, Churchill allows his adversaries' own words of folly to speak for themselves.  His criticism after the fact his actually a good deal tamer than his speeches to Parliament during this period.  Some of this may have to do with the fact of his reconciliation with Chamberlain after the beginning of the War.  <br />The second part of the book, \\"the Twilight War\\" covers the period from September 1939 until the invasion of the West in the Spring of 1940.  With the mind of a military thinker, Churchill details the naval challenges to Britain from he very start of the war, including the need to protect merchant shipping and the need to secure England's northern Baltic ports.  In this section as well, Churchill chronicles the political and diplomatic difficulties of the early part of the war.  Included of course, in his typically understated fashion, is the story of his return to power, first as First Lord of the Admiralty then as Prime Minister after the fall of the Chamberlain government.  It is on this note that the book concludes, saving the story of the Fall of France and Britain's lonely stand for the second volume.<br />Churchill's way with the pen is incomparable.  His use of the written English language is remarkable.  As a history, this book is comprehensive and excellent.  He makes much use of original sources, particularly regarding German actions.  Its only weakness as a history is the lack of Churchill's detachment from the events of which he writes.  But this weakness of the book as a history is its strength as a biography.  Churchill's insights into the times in which he lived and the famous people with whom he dealt are invaluable.  In this book, his description of Molotov as a perfect robot is priceless.  Churchill states that the theme to this volume is \\"How the English-Speaking people's...allowed the wicked to re-arm.\\"  It is a lesson also covered in Manchester's \\"The Last Lion Volume Two-Alone.\\"  It is a lesson still invaluable today.	2002-05-29
US	52552835	R212RAMX2UVJF9	0521558794	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Scholarly Comprehensive History of the Greatest Cataclysm!	Mention WWII to many people and they will mention the war in Europe and the war in the Pacific.  In reality, the war was vastly broader than that, truly fought over the entire face of the earth and invloving billions of people, killing scores of millions.  It is difficult to comprehensively review the entire war in one volume but in this massive book, Gerhard Weinberg comes close to succeeding.  Obviously he cannot touch on each and every aspect of the war in full detail in a single volume but each theatre is covered in some detail.  Because of the difficulty of analyzing the war chronologically, Weinberg chooses to cover the war by subject.  One of the good things about this book is that Weinberg covers the war from the persepctive of many of the different powers involved.  For example, he devotes several chapters of the book to the war from the German perspective and from the Japanese perspective.  This is something you don't see in every book on the war.  The book covers all aspects of the war including military, political, social and economic.  <br />Weinberg's analysis is straightforward and traditional.  His aim is not to shock but to inform. While some might quibble that this or that subject might not get the coverage it deserves, in my opinion a single volume could not be more comprehensive and detailed.  The book is not light reading.  Weinberg is a scholar.  He is not Steven Ambrose or even Paul Johnson writing for popular audiences.  This is not &quot;Life Goes to War.&quot;  For anyone with the time or inclination to really learn about the meat of this disaster in which perhaps fifty million people died, this book will be an indispensable tool and reference.	2002-05-23
US	52552835	R38VL23GLU8NHR	0316518476	487438669	The Fifty Year Wound: The True Price of America's Cold War Victory	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What Price Victory? This Book Trashes Conventional Wisdom!	More than ten years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the time has come for a thorough, dispassionate, non-ideological review of the Cold War and its consequences.  In this book, Derek Leebaert, professor of government at Georgetown University, attempts such a review.  It is a daunting task to explore fifty years of history in one volume but Leebaert largely succeeds in creating a cogent, analysis of American actions during this period and their consequences.<br />This book is the first I have ever read about the Cold War that is not filtered through the author's ideology of either the right or the left.  Radical leftists will blame the Cold War on American capitalist imperialism.  Establishment liberals have tended to view this titanic struggle as between forces equally malevolent or at least equally compromised.  The right, of course, has a tendency to forgive each and every American excess as a necessary component in a struggle against a force of pure evil.  Leebaert subscribes to none of these views.  As Leebaert demonstrates, the truth is much more nuanced.<br />Leebaert begins by setting forth the danger posed by Stalin's Soviet Union during the late forties.  He reveals the cold hand of Stalin behind North Korean aggression   The first figure scorned by Leebaert is George Kennan, architect of the containment policy who, after the crowning achievement of his life, spent the next forty years undermining it.  Leebaert has high regard for President Truman, George Marshall and, surprisingly, British foreign secretary Ernest Bevin.  He sees these men as helping stabilize the fluid post-war situation.  I, myself am not high on Bevin, an old school anti-semite, who was virulently anti-zionist and reneged on his Labour party's pledge to support Jewish immigration to Palestine but that is a story for another book.  Leebaert also notes the excesses of the McCarthyist persecutions which prevented a sober examination of the unusually extensive communist penetration of the American government.  He views the Eisenhower years as the period when bad intelligence and hasty policy decisions started to undermine the ability of the U.S. to properly respond to Soviet challenges.<br />Leebaert's discussion and criticism of the Kennedy and Johnson years focuses on both the tragic descent into the Vietnam morass and the growth of American \\"adventurism.\\"  The Kennedy brothers and their \\"best and brightest\\" advisors are regarded as reckless in their failure to properly assess all options as well as the consequences of their actions. Kennedy era policy makers essentially turned U.S. policy away from direct confrontation with Moscow and towards covert adventurism.  Particularly singled out for scorn are McGeorge Bundy, national security advisor and Robert McNamara, secretary of defense.  Leebaert simply rejects out of hand the later arguments by Kennedy sycophants like Arthur Schlesinger Jr., that Kennedy, by the end of his life, had already decided to write off Vietnam.  Leebaert finds no evidence in Kennedy's statements or character to suggest that he would have avoided the slippery slope that consumed Johnson.  <br />Conventional wisdom gives Nixon enormous credit for, not only ending Vietnam, but for the policy of \\"detente\\" and  the opening of China.  Leebeart is critical of all these actions.  He regards Henry Kissinger as a particularly odious figure, a latter day Bismark, playing geo-political chess with millions of lives.  Nixon's Vietnam strategy, while doomed to fail, succeeded in expanding the war to Cambodia and bringing on the genocidal Khmer Rouge.  Nixon's policy of rapprochement with Moscow is regarded by Leembaert, not as lowering Cold War tensions but as tying the United States to assorted treaties which Moscow never considered itself bound to follow  Indeed, Nixon's accommodation to the Soviets and alliance with the even more vile Red Chinese regime of Mao Tse Tung, is regarded by Leembaert as the beginning of the defeatist policy that held court throughout the seventies and continued to be the basic policy of the liberal establishment right through the fall of the Berlin Wall.  According to Leembaert, Kissinger and Nixon had absolutely no regard for the morality or immorality of American actions or the actions of American allies.  The cold war became viewed as simply a struggle between great powers no different than the 19th century struggles between France and Germany or the 18th century struggles between  Britain and France.  That the Western system was morally superior to the Communist was forgotten or perhaps no longer regarded as relevant.  <br />The next part of the book is devoted to the change of policy under Reagan from \\"accommodation\\" to confrontation.  Reagan is given enormous credit for the policy that essentially spent the Soviet Union into the grave.  The excesses and mistakes of this era are not ignored, however. The final chapter of the book examines the post-Soviet era of the last eleven years in the context of the Cold War's mistakes and consequences.  Leembaert's ultimate conclusion is that the Cold War was a just cause that needed to be fought, needed to be won but was not always fought well or smartly.  He is particularly critical of the CIA and the intelligence community in general.  I agree with much in this meaty book including the author's basic premise.  I don't necessarily agree with all his assessment's.  I think he is overly harsh on Kennedy who was more cautious than many of his advisors.  Although I agree that Gorbachev is given too much credit for the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Empire, I think he deserves some credit for his refusal to violently resist his nation's inevitable end.  The peaceful transition of much of Eastern Europe from totalitarianism to freedom is one of the most remarkable things in modern history.  The book could also use more editing.   Nevertheless, this is quibbling.  The book is timely and must readingfor anyone interested in the Cold War and its effect on this country and the world.	2002-05-21
US	52552835	RUS6RD5HXDLP0	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetic Prose of Conroy's Pen!	Pat Conroy is one of the most literary of today's popular writers.  His poetic and lyrical use of language makes his novels soar.  As with all his novels, the hero of the Lords of Discipline is a somewhat cocky, witty and self-aware narrator, modelled to some extent on Conroy himself.  Will McClean is a catholic student of the \\"Institute\\" (a knock-off of the Citidel which Conroy himself attended) in the largely protestant Southern City of Charleston South Carolina at a time during the sixties when Southern Institutions were rigidly segregated.  Will is asked to take under his wing the Istitute's first black cadet to shield him from the inevitable rascism he will encounter.  Will agrees reluctantly but his integrity forces him to learn a good deal more about the dark underside of the Institute than he would like as he and his charge are subject to violence, hostility and worse threats from a mysterious campus group known as the \\"Ten\\".  Ultimately a genuine mystery ensues with unpredictible plot twists.  The book resolves this mystery while concurrently revealing much about Will and his three beloved roomates and their relationship to Charleston society.<br />This is Conroy's least stylized and most conventionally  plot-driven book.  Nevertheless, it still contains much impressionistic writing as Conroy examines the romance and beauty of the old South and contrasts it with the seamy racist and classist underside.  Any lover of American fiction will adore this book and anything written by Pat Conroy.  What a shame that he lacks the prolificness of other popular novelists.	2002-05-16
US	52552835	R26TD6VP9PDIM8	0827604033	293622615	Sacred Fragments: Recovering Theology for the Modern Jew	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Modern Jewish Theology	Judaism is about more than ritual, law and observance.  It is also about God and His relationship with humanity.  In this excellent book, Rabbi Gillman, chair of the philosophy/theology department at the Jewish Theological Seminary (which ordains COnservative Rabbis) writes a lucid introduction to this complex subject that is fully accessible to lay persons with no Jewish background (although a little knowledge of philosophy will help)  Besides surveying all the major trends in Jewish theological thought from re-constructionism to Orthodox literalism, Gillman gives the reader his own views.  Gillman attended the seminary during the waning years of Mordechai Kaplan's influence and during the hay day of the influence of Abraham Joshua Heschl.  Heschl, who was essentially an hasid at a modern seminary took a decisively mystical and yet thoroughly modern approach to Jewish theology.  Heschl's approach is most definitevely set forth in his classic \\"God in Search of Man.\\"  This book is difficult reading.  Gillman summarizes it in much simpler, easier language. Heschl's approach can be summed up by his famous saying that \\"As a record of revelation, the whole bible is Midrash.\\"  In essence, Heschl and Gillman view the revletion at Sinai as something which happened for sure but not in the manner set forth in the bible.  Because God's essence is beyond description or even human understanding, the bible necessarily filters that experience through the eyes of man.  Thus, paradoxically, the fact that belief in God and His majesty defies rational explanation is the very essence of what makes it possible for modern man to believe in Him.  Because while I cannot believe that God sits on a throne and opens a book every Rosh Hashanah, I can accept this as a metaphor for the nature of God which I cannot begin to comprehend.  This very mysticism makes belief possible for modern man.  Heschl really changed conservative theology after he came to the seminar in the 50's.  His non-rationalmystical approach was the precise opposite of what Mordechai Kaplan had taught for decades.  Heschl's arrival made Kaplan's departure for the Reconstructionist movement inevitable.  Heschl died young but his influence lives on through Gillman.  This book will be of interest to any Jew or non-Jew interested in a truly modern approach to God and revelation.  I also recommend Heschl for the truly adventurous.  He was a great thinker and a poetic writer who will be remembered as one of the Jewish giants of the 20th century.	2002-05-12
US	52552835	R3IPNNW3N50HXM	0688085067	795328940	Jewish Literacy: The Most Important Things to Know About the Jewish Religion, Its People and Its History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Judaism 101 for Jews and Non-Jews Alike!	In this fabulous book Rabbi Telushkin sets forth in simple, easily readible short essays each and every apect of Judaism, Jewish life and Jewish history.  There is nothing that isn't covered and although the coverage is necessarily superficial, it is an incomparable resource for anyone seeking basic information about the Jewish people.  Telushkin divides the book into sections covering the Jewish Bible, subsequent Jewish history, the holocaust the history of Zionism and Israel, the Jewish annual cycle, the Jewish life cycle and other aspects of Jewish life.  Telushkin's love and fascination with Judaism shines through on every page. The book is not intended to be more than the title says it is, a basic introduction to Judaism.  It is miles wide but only inches deep.  Nevertheless, a thorough reading of this book will indeed give the reader a basic Jewish literacy.	2002-05-10
US	52552835	RK828TW24QJEZ	0873340043	312915694	A Guide to Jewish Religious Practice (The Moreshet series)	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	A dense excellent reference for serious Jews	This book, by the late Rabbi Isaac Klein, of blessed memory, is the only fairly comprehensive guide to Jewish religious practice issued by the Conservative movement. As such, it is an indispensable reference to the practicing Jew.  Readers will find that their is, in fact, very little difference between the  modern Orthodox Halachah and that set forth by the Conservative movement's Rabbinical Assembly.  The difference is, of course, in the theological approach.<br />Rabbi Klein's book,which has been updated and supplemented a number of times to reflect changes since its publication in 1979, is a good source for the torah, talmudic and traditional approaches to all areas of Jewish practice.  The book includes one of the most comprehensive approaches to the Kosher laws I have ever seen.  It also covers synagogue practice in great detail, differentiating between laws (halachah) and customs which have taken on the effect of laws. (minhag) I myself pick up the book for review whenever necessary, for example, reviewing the section on brit milah (the circumcision) after my son's birth.  This is not a book for beginners who have no familiarity with Jewish practice.  It is a good stepping stone for the beginner who would like to have more comprehensive knowledge and understanding of Jewish practice.  I learned more in this book than in six years of Hebrew School.  For the beginner or for someone looking for a much easier book of this nature I recommend Rabbi Kotlach's \\"Jewish Home Advisor\\".  For someone looking for a more comprehensive work and not ready to tackle the Shulchan Aroch, this is a wonderful resource.	2002-05-10
US	52552835	R24SCB2GURW3NY	0963624202	833171542	From Time Immemorial: The Origins of the Arab-Jewish Conflict over Palestine	Books	3	165	236	N	Y	Flaws in Scholarship and Craftsmanship Hurt a Valid Thesis	This book has engendered an enormous amount of criticism since its publication in 1984.  My review of the reviews reveals that some of the criticism is warranted.  The book does contain a certain amount of sloppy scholarship.  In particular, Peters' apparent misapplication of certain statistics regarding population growth in Palestine in the early 20th century is questionable.  Enemies of Israel and historical revisionists have used these errors to condemn and discredit the book.  In my experience, virtually all scholarly work contains errors of the kind Peters' is accused of.  I have not checked her footnotes nor do I expect have most of her readers.  The reader has a right to rely on the accuracy of footnotes.<br /> As I see it, Peters has been accused by the revisionists and enemies of Israel of misusing quotes, taking them out of context and over-relying on anecdotal evidence.  I find this ironic since this is exactly what the revisionists have been revealed to have done.  I suppose they should be familiar with their own technique.  This does not excuse the action.  I reject the \\"revisionist technique\\" which smacks of Marxist \\"correctness\\".  The goal of  the historian should be the revelation of the truth.  The mis-application of evidence is one of the worst sins an historian can commit.  I do not excuse Peters.<br />And yet...And yet...the real question is whether the errors in her scholarship discredits her thesis.  If one eliminates the problematic sources and quotes, does the argument fall apart?  To this I offer a resounding no.<br />Peters an American non-Jew, with no ax to grind for either side set out to research the history and discovered that what she was finding was the exact opposite of what she believed to be true. As her research continued she became more and more outraged as she realized that what she had thought was the truth was a deliberate hoax, fostered by the Arab world to maintain a perpetual conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs.  This book was the result.<br />Peters first sets out to demonstrate the true history of historical Palestine.  She shows, quite accurately, the Roman destruction of \\"Judea\\", the invention of the term \\"Palestine\\", the continued presence of Jews in Palestine throughout the ages, despite intense persecution, the constant migrations in and out by assorted Moslem peoples (not Arabs primarily)  and the severe under-population of the land in the 19th century.  She then demonstrates the horrendous treatment of the Jews of the Moslem world, historically and in modern times as well.<br />This is the most original part of her book.  Few sources have focused on the Jewish refugees of the Arab world even though entire populations were forced to flee without any of their material belongings.  Because they were quickly absorbed into the Israeli population,  their plight has never seemed important but it is vitally important  when considering the moral \\"claims\\" of the Arab refugees.<br />Peters' gravest sin, in my opinion is that she becomes overwhelmed by her passions for her side of the story.  It is hardly necessary for her to prove precisely how many Arabs lived in Palestine in 1880.  To prove her point she merely needed to show the trend of Arab immigration and the  restrictions on Jewish immigration. Any litigator or debater will concede that to ignore evidence which contradicts your thesis is deadly.  Since in Peter's case, the contrary evidence or weaknesses in her own evidence are so readily explainable, her failure to present opposing points and refute them is particularly inexcusable.  It just lends false credence to her adversary's claims.  Peters is guilty of over-exuberance for her subject.  But this kind of argument in the face of hostile opposition calls for cool reason.  Extensive footnoting is no substitute for properly constructed argument.  Ironically Peters, who had no personal devotion to Zionism and thus no need to justify it, ends up tarred with the brush of partisanship.  One need not be \\"neutral\\" in thought to write a logical analysis defending Zionism and refuting its detractors.  Benjamin Netanyahu did it in his book \\"A Durable Peace\\" where he does not shrink from responding to revisionist arguments.  To the contrary he revels in it.<br />Again let me make it clear that I support Peters' thesis 100 percent.  Those who condemn her are almost exclusively from the revisionist/anti-Israel camp.  As they always do, they seek to obstruct the truth by throwing up a smokescreen.  Peters did not need to provide them with the smoke.  Not one critic has genuinely attacked her premise.  Indeed, it is the revisionists who have been largely discredited by legitimate historians.  This does not excuse these errors.  Am I surprised to learn that the supporters of this book are Americans while Israeli and European academics have rejected it?  Of course not.  The Israeli academy is in thrall to the revisionists despite the fact that their works have been largely proven false and ideologically driven.  The European academy is even more in thrall to the leftist ideology that utterly rejects Zionism.  The European academy has become worse than useless.  Of course individual exceptions apply.  Two good British historians who wrote of the Arab-Israeli conflict are Paul Johnson and Martin Gilbert.  American historians are an independent and diverse lot.  I trust them more than European or Israeli academics.<br />Peters makes a number of cogent and important points about the conflict.  Much of it is a rehash of previously known facts which have become largely forgotten in today's climate of relentless Arab propaganda.  Her most original contribution to the debate is her contention that in any accounting of Arab suffering, the vast suffering of the Jews of the Muslim world needs to be considered as well.  The book is not riveting, but is instead scholarly and at times pedantic.  Peters could have lopped off several hundred pages and presented a stronger case for her clearly valid observations.  For this reason, I would say there are better books than this one available.	2002-05-07
US	52552835	R1BHK1PIOMSI7T	0811826848	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Whole Story From the Mouths of the Beatles Themselves	The Beatles story is an incredibly fascinating one.  In so many ways their history is not merely of a musical group, even a great one.  The Beatles transcended mere music.  From 1962-1970, the entire period of their recording career, the Beatles recorded hundreds ofbrilliant songs, groundbreaking albums and lived enough advenutre to fill a lifetime.  When this book was published, the three surviving Beatles had lived more than twice as many years since the breakup as the entire time the group was together.  It is really remarkable to read (or see in the video) McCartney, Starr and Harrison talking about the Beatle's times from the perspective of late middle age.  The story itself will be familiar to any Beatle's fan.  The early days in Britain, the crazy days of Beatle mania, the acid drenched mid-sixties when the times began to influence the Beatle's sound and the Beatle's music so headily influenced the times.   The flirtation with Indian religion, the death of Brian Epstein, Yoko Ono, the slowly growing rigt and finally the acrimonious breakup.  All in an incredible 8 years.  What makes this book unique, even from earlier books that quote the Beatles is the perspective of time which has clearly mellowed the three surviviors.  Lennon's quote's are necessarily taken from before his death in 1980 and it is interesting to see how his failure to reach middle age lends a different perspective to his memories of the Beatles, in his case memories less than fifteen years old.  How fascinating to hear Paul and George discussing the making of \\"Let it Be\\" where the bitterness was clear.  Paul essentially apologizes and it is nice to know he and George settled their differences before Harrison's death late last year.  Not only do I recommend this book, it cannot be missed by anyone interested in the Beatle's history in their own words.  No other auto-biography will be as comprehensive for one reason.  It will require much of the book to focus on pre and post Beatles years.  As I stated, the Beatles recording career lasted 8 years.  Today a top band would record at most three albums in that time.  Don't miss the book or the video collection	2002-05-04
US	52552835	RI653EORGTL4F	0316545120	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill, Alone 1932-1940	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Freedom's Greatest Defender, Hitler's Greatest Enemy!	Most people today know Winston Churchill at the great British Prime Minister of WWII.  But Churchill was 65 when he became Prime Minister and had a public career spanning more than forty years.  In this excellent book which is part biography, part history, William Manchester focuses on the period of 1932-1940 when Churchill was out of power, an outcast in his own party and universally derided as a warmongering relic.  Churchill referred to these years as his \\"wilderness years\\" and they are among the most fascinating of his life because the years of Churchill's political exile coincide with the rise of Hitler and the growth of Germany from defeated power to world menace.  Indeed, as Manchester chronicles, Churchill's return from the wilderness was intimately connected to the rise of Hitler because Churchill's relentless public opposition to Hitlerism and British policy towards Germany throughout the thirties is what led to his continuing exile while this same stalwartness preserved him from the mark of shame that infected the rest of the British elite when the policy of appeasement collapsed in 1939.<br />Manchester has an unrestrained admiration for Churchill.  Nevertheless, at no time in this volume does he overlook Churchill's many faults of personality.  Many of these faults become clear when Manchester examines Churchill's personal life at his Chartwell estate and his relationship with his family and the servants and secretary's who worked for him.  Despite these faults, however, the Churchill of this book comes across as a man touched with greatness and who is well aware of it.  But this book is not merely the story of Churchill but the story of the small shabby men whose policy of appeasement in the face of absolute evil laid England low.  Most of the government during the thirties fits this bill but in particular Manchester singles out the three prime ministers, Ramsey McDonald, Stanley Baldwin and Neville Chamberlain and Chamberlain's foreign minister Lord Halifax..  The author's contempt for these \\"Men of Munich\\" drips on virtually every page.  He contrasts their fecklessness with Churchill's steadiness.  Certainly Churchill recognized from day one that Germany had been overtaken by a deranged criminal regime and that such a regime would necessarily threaten the peace of the world.  The Men of Munich just could not see it.  Churchill believed, without once wavering, that a foreign policy built on strength and deterrence could prevent war but that a policy of appeasement could only guarantee it.  The Men of Munich believed quite the opposite.   Manchester shows the motivation of the appeasers to be more complex than commonly understood.  Nevertheless, since, to their mind, no rational human being could want war, any dispute with Germany could be resolved through diplomacy and negotiation.  It never occurred to the Churchill's foes that Hitler was no rational human being but rather quite mad or that they were not \\"negotiating\\" with him so much as giving in and retreating.  <br />A review of the events of the thirties shows a steady British retreat beginning with the failure to stop the re-occupation of the Rhineland then the failure to halt the annexation of Austria, the infamous betrayal of Czechoslovakia at Munich and finally the failure to prevent the final conquest of Czechoslovakia.  Indeed, even after the invasion of Poland and declaration of War, Britain and France held back from aiding the Poles for fear Hitler would \\"turn west\\".  Not until Churchill returned to power, nearly a year after the start of the war and days before the capitulation of France did the policy of appeasement truly end.<br />Even without the benefit of hindsight, the policy of the British government during this period defies belief.  Churchill stands as starkly in contrast to these appeasers as he does to the criminal Hitler.  Churchill's wilderness years contain important lessons for today's policy-makers.  Appeasement of evil is not onlywrong but foolish.  It never preserves peace but only guarantee's war.  Manchester is a great writer.  His prose is lively and his storytelling ability is excellent.  All lovers of history will adore this book.  I highly recommend it.  What a pity that there will never be a third volume chronicling the war and post war years of Churchill's 90 year life.	2002-05-02
US	52552835	R1JKT8OKNQELL	0446523062	245084638	A Durable Peace: Israel and its Place Among the Nations	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	The Case Against A Palestinian State By the Former PM of Isr	In this excellent book, Benjamin Netanyahu sets forth in concise and logical terms the reason why there cannot and should not be a sovereign Palestinian state on the West Bank and Gaza.  Netanyahu is obviously a partisan of Israel but his case is built methodically on facts and reason and any fair reader will be hard pressed to refute his position.<br />The first part of the book is a relatively brief synopsis of the relevant parts of the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict with a special focus on the British Mandate to rebuild a national Jewish home as well as the myths and facts behind the so-called Arab refugee crisis.  Netanyahu makes a clear and convincing case for the proposition that the Arab world created, enlarged, maintained and used the refugee situation as a weapon against Israel. He proves his case that the Palestinian Arabs have no moral \\"right\\" to either replace the Jewish state or to create a rump sovereign state on the West Bank and Gaza.  <br />In the next part of the book, Netanyahu sets forth his geo-political philosophy which bears a striking resemblance to Churchillian/Reagan notions of deterrence through strength.  He describes the two kinds of peace, the peace between democratic states such as today's France and Germany or the United States and Canada where security is simply not an issue and the peace between belligerent states such as exists between Israel and all its neighbors.  Netanyahu points out that a nation dealing with a non-democracy can never risk its security in pursuit of a paper peace agreement.  Even where a state of peace exists, a change of regime of the non-democratic state can lead to a repudiation of the treaty. <br />In the final part of the book, Netanyahu applies these ideas to the Israeli-Arab conflict.  He is an expert on Israeli security issues and many of the things he has to say about Israel's security needs are not commonly known.  For one thing, he writes of Israel's need for \\"strategic depth.\\" Israel has a standing army of only 150,000 men.  Thus, if attacked, she would need 2-3 days to fully mobilize her reserve forces.  During these 2 or 3 days the standing army must hold the enemy at bay.  If an attack came from a Palestinian state on all of the West Bank , this strategic depth would be gone. As Netanyahu argues convincingly, Israel cannot trust its security to the good will of a neighboring Palestine.  This was true when the book was originally written in 1993.  .... <br />Netanyahu does not argue for any of the radical right wing positions.  Although he argues that the Arabs have no historical claim on Judea and Samaria and the Jews do, he does not advocate either expulsion or permanent Israeli military control.  Instead he argues for granting the Arabs the right to control their own lives on a day to day basis and to avoid contact with Israelis if they so desire.  He makes an unassailable argument, however, that Israel's security needs preclude the granting of a fully sovereign state on this territory.  Unfortunately, the Arabs are not likely to accept this so continued conflict is the likely future. The book is well written and very concise.  It is hard to argue with Netanyahu's logic and those not pre-disposed to reject his words will enjoy this book a great deal.	2002-04-30
US	52552835	R2VSNSC2AHD96N	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	3	12	16	N	Y	Beware Intellectuals	In this lively entertaining biographical study of 12 leading thinkers of the past three hundred years, British historian Johnson <BR>has a number of aims.  First and foremost, he seeks to cut down the reputation of these particular individuals by showing their foibles and hypocrisy.  In this he succeeds marvelously.  Second, he seeks to prove a thesis that the profiled persons are part of a larger class of intellectuals who all display common traits and by discrediting the profiled 12, he aims to discredit the others by extension.  In this, he is less succesful.  <br />Johnson defines the term \\"intellectual\\" as used in this book,at its core as, among other things, a thinker who believes in the power of ideas to effect human society.  Further refining this notion, he particularly singles out those who believe in \\"ideas rather than people.\\"  That is to say, intellectuals favor theory over the wealth of human experience.  Along these lines, the intellectuals he profiles all have the trait of regarding truth as inferior to the promotion of the ideas or theories in which they believe.  While demonstrating the \\"intellectuals lack of regard for truth and empirical experience, Johnson shows how almost to a man  (and in the case of Lillian Hellman a woman) these people were awful in their private lives.  The common theme is selfishness and self-centeredness.  Johnson makes an excellent case that the twelve intellectuals he profiles are hypocritical and in some cases even venal persons.  He further makes a case that intellectually, their ideas are largely bankrupt. <br />The twelve he profiles in detail are Rousseau, Shelley, Marx, Ibsen, Tolstoy, Hemingway, Brecht, Russell, Sartre, Edmund Wilson, Gollancz and Hellman.  He goes on to briefly profile a number of modern figures including Mailer and Chomsky.  What each of these individuals have in common is that they are, to some extent or other, of the left  That is to say, to some extent or other, each opposed, usually to a radical degree, the existing social order. The 20th century figures almost uniformly were involved with the communist party.  Anyone familiar with Johnson knows how contemptuous he is of the left, particularly the radical left.  He makes a strong case against these leftists.  Virtually none of them lived anything resembling the life they espoused for the masses.  Johnson shows in great detail their cruelty to the people close to them, their prejudices, their disregard for higher truth, their self absorption and in some cases, dangerous flirtation with mankind's basest instincts.  <br />After reading the book, however, I am left with a few questions.  First, why is Johnson's definition of intellectual limited in the fashion it is.  If Johnson's definition is accepted , then his case is strong, but what about other thinkers and philosophers who do not fit in to Johnson's narrow parameters?  Just by way of definition, none of the thinkers associated with the American revolution are profiled.  Were Jefferson, Hamilton and Madison not intellectuals?  I suppose they fall outside Johnson's scope because they were men of action who actually made a revolution and created a new system of government.  But to me, they are intellectuals.  What of Locke and Hobbes?  What of Bentham and Mill?  What of Keynes?  These are all intellectuals whose ideas had a substantial impact on the development of Western civilization.  The founding fathers in particular were astute judges of human nature and never allowed \\"theory\\" to get in the way of workable ideas.  This is why the American experiment succeeded so marvelously.  I happen to know for a fact that Johnson agrees with this assesment.  But they are not intellectuals to him.  I think the book would be stronger if Johnson explained why he does not classify thinkers he admires as  <BR>intellectuals.  As it stands, the book is an excellent expose of these twelve figures and exposes them as frauds by any definition so the book is worth reading.	2002-04-08
US	52552835	R173XO5APT6E0S	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Master of the Short Story Strikes Again!	I think it's fair to say Stephen King is known as a great novelist.  What many people do not realize is that he is one of the great living masters of the short story.  As fans of short fiction know, the skills needed for a great story are fundamentally different than those needed to develop a great novel.  In these 14 stories, King manages in an average of 30 pages or less to create real people, whole worlds and in some cases horrific scenarios. The subject matter of the stories vary widely running the gambut from true gothic horror, to what King himself refers to as literary stories. A man wakes up to find himself paralyzed and lying on a slab with his autopsy about to begin!  A reporter finds himself in the clutches of sadistic torturers in a South American banana republic.  A high school dropout discovers he has the ability to kill through his thoughts.  A secret corporation puts his powers to the use of good.  Or do they?  A young college student, hitchiking home to see his stricken mother, gets a ride he will never forget.  A lunch meeting in a restaraunt turns into a bloodbath, literally.  And many others as well.  What all of these stories have in common is the feeling that the characters are real people.  Earlier in his career, in other collections, King published short stories which tended to be shorter and more jolting, Twilghlight Zone-like with twist endings. Night Shift is the best collection of this type of work.  These stories are longer and more involving. They will leave you with varying feelings from horror to sadness. They are a pleasure to read.  I hope King continues to publish short fiction.	2002-03-26
US	52552835	R39E554IZ9I4X0	0345442261	761203360	Counting Up, Counting Down	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	A Little Disapointing.  Not Up to His Usual Standards	I love short stories and have been fond of much of what i've read by Harry Turtledove in the past both novels and short fiction.  Thus I was disapointed by this book.  Virtually none of the stories were of the alternative history variety which is Turtledove's specialty.  Moreover, many of the plots were dull and plodding.  A few of the stories I had trouble getting through.  There were a few good ones in the collection but not enough to make me glad I purchased the volume.  This collection is not up to other Turtledove works....	2002-03-21
US	52552835	RRKSA3PKNQU7S	0743407393	602177714	The Children's War: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Dark Alternate Vision of Life Under Victorious 3d Reich	As a fan of alternate history, I was intrigued by the premise of this book.  This is not the first novel to focus on the potential of a victorious Germany.  It is the first I have seen, however, that focuses not on the geo-politics but on the lives of ordinary people determined to be less than fully human. The world depicted here imagines a Europe completely subjugated by the Nazis, even England.  The 1200 page novel initially follows several different stories.  First is, Peter Halifax, captured British underground member, who becomes a slave to a haughty German family and whose treatment is harrowing.  The book also follows the lives of a group of Polish patriots who live free underground and hold off Nazi attack through the threat of retaliation.  The novel also follows the life of a high level official in the Nazi government as he navigates his way through Nazi incompetence and viciousness.  Ultimately these characters all come together in a series of complex and unlikely happenings.<br />The novel is well written but very dense.  The characters are uniformly not nice people, understandable given their circumstances.  It is not easy to like them as they are not particularly heroic.  Peter, in particularly is damaged by his disastrous childhood and his systematic brutalization and degradation in his slave years.  This is described in brutal detail.  Ultimately the plot, which I am intentionally not revealing, is rather simple.  The strength of the novel is the portrait of blighted characters in a horror world that it reveals.  As the book is read the author reveals a bleak world without much hope of redemption in which simple survival is far from guaranteed.  The 1999 of the \\"Children's War\\" is a world most of us could not imagine in our worst nightmares.  This book was not easy or pleasant reading.  When I was finished I had a bad taste in my mouth. (and my head)  Whether Germany could have ever won the war and whether a German Europe fifty years later could haveresembled this nightmare is far from clear.  One thing that is clear is that after you read this novel, you will be glad you live in the real world, not the world of J.N. Stroyar's imagination.	2002-03-20
US	52552835	R1QX4VQYQ9ENEH	097129450X	178405093	Myths and Facts: A Guide to the Arab-Israeli Conflict	Books	4	66	94	N	Y	A Valuable Tool for Defenders of Israel	How many times have you heard enemies of Israel spout aburdities you know to be false?  How many times have you wanted to refute these lies but lacked the knowledge or skill to do so?  This is the book for you.  In organized chapters that covers every aspect of the Israeli-Arab conflict from the Mandate period through the beginning of the Palestinian violence in September 2000, this book presents well organized and well documented facts that prove the truth and refute the lies.  <br />Bard's style is to present a myth and then below it print the facts refuting the myth.  For example, in the chapter dealing with Israel's relationship with the United States, Bard lists the myth that the United States always supplied Israel with arms.  Below that, he prints the truth which is that the United States actually refused to sell Israel arms until the sixties.  The facts are presented clearly, simply and coherently and are documented by footnotes.  In sections dealing with Arab intentions, he quotes Arab sources themselves.  This book is not ideological.  It does not justify Israel's actions on biblical or religious grounds.  It simply presents the truth in a clear unvarnished way.  A further, and very important thing Bard does is to place events and actions in historical perspective.  The loss of historical perspective is the single greatest source of prevailing myth.  So, for example, in a section dealing with myths relating to the Palestinian refugees, Bard not only points out the gross exagerations of their numbers and Israel's willingness to resolve the problem, but also that no other group of refugees in human history has remained unsettled for three generations.  <br />For those knowledgeable about the history of Israel, this book is valuable because it will enable the reader to quickly find the factual information disproving a particular myth.  For those without a background who might be succeptible to many of the refuted myths, this book will be a simple and brief yet fully documented recitation of the real facts.  Enemies of Israel of course, have no reason to read it.  For everyone else, I recommend it.	2002-03-20
US	52552835	R5BV7E5FA3O4J	0553258478	734532649	Exodus	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A Heroic Account of the Birth Of Israel!	Int his classic epic of historical fiction, Leon Uris pens his account of Israel's dramatic birth from the time of the first aliyah in the late 19th century through the War for Independence.  He introduces heroic characters, dastardly villains and innocent victims.  First and foremost, this is the story of the Ben Canaan clan.  Heroic, emotionally damaged Ari, the Palmach soldier, his father Barak, one of the fictional founders of the Labor Zionist movement.  Barak's brother, known as \\"Akiva\\", leader of the outlaw \\" Macabees\\", modeled on the real life Irgum movement of Menachem Begin.  There is Kitty, the American gentile who falls in love with Ari and ultimately with the struggle for a Jewish homeland, Dov, the young embittered survivor of the Warsaw ghetto and Karen, Danish holocaust survivor who Kitty unofficially adopts.  There is Ari's firey redheaded sister Jordana who clashes with Kitty's American idea of what a young woman should be like.  and there are others as well.  Uris uses the melodrama of the personal story of these characters to show how Israel came to be.  It is all here, the escape by Barak and Akiva from their Russian shtetl and their hike (!!!) to the promised land.  The horror of the holocaust.  And most importantly, the struggle during the post-war mandate period with the British and of course the Arabs.  <br />Uris is not the historian that Herman Wouk is.  He has a strange tendency in his historical novels to change the names of people and incidents.  For example, in real life, the ship known as \\"Exodus\\" was forced to cyprus.  It is this that roused the world's ire.  In the novel, of course, the ship is permitted to dock in Palestine.  This confuses two different ships and two different incidents.  Why does he use the name \\"Macabees\\" instead of the Irgun?  Who knows?  It's not that important because Exodus is a rousing thrilling novel.  FOr those of us who recognize the essential righteousness of Israel's cause, this novel is like chicken soup for the soul.  Those who feel differently will not appreciate Uris's clear pro-Israel sentiment.  Although Uris presents these characters through a prism of heroism, he does not ignore their flaws or the suffering of the innocent, Arab and Jew.  The British are presented as anti-semetic brutes but that's by and large what they were during this awful time.  The Arab fighters are presented as blood thirsty.  They were not exactly humanitarians.  The truth is the truth and haters of Israel are not interested in seeing it.  In the Haj, Uris writes an entire novel showing the destruction of the Arabs of Palestine by their fellow Arabs, here he hints at it.  This is an exciting book from start to finish and it should be must reading, particularly for  Jews of Israel and the disaspora who are too young to remember the early days before 1967 when Israel struggled every day to survive against better armed foes  determined to anihilate her.  Israel is a country worth saving and Exodus shows why.  The book is not perfect history but it is a fabulous novel.	2002-03-18
US	52552835	RRYE5SGKHOIU6	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Out of All His Books This Is the Best	I originally read the Stand almost 20 years ago.  It was one of the first books by King I ever read.  I was in high school at the time and I finished it in three nights although it was a book of more than 800 pages.  It is that kind of book.  I have since re-read it numerous times and have read the newly published unabridged edition.  This man writes gripping books and this is the most gripping of all.  The time is the near future. (1985 in the original edition published in 1978) We are introduced to a series of characters scattered all across the country.  Stu Redman a quiet young Texan widower, Larry Underwood, a troubled rock musician, forced to flee California and return to his mother in the Bronx, Frannie Goldsmith, a pregnant teenager from Maine and her nerdy neighbor Harold Lauder, Lloyd Henreid, a career criminal in jail for murder, Nick Andros, a young death mute drifter.  These people have nothing in common but one thing.  They are immune to the Superflu that kills 98 percent of the American population. This is the opening stanza of an epic that sprawls but never goes out of control.  The first part of the book describes the horrendous effect of the Superflu as American society is decimated and ultimately destroyed. In the next part of the book, we see the various characters meet up with other survivors and new characters.  Eventually our heroes are brought together towards Boulder Colarado by dreams they have of a 100 year old black woman known as Mother Abigael. As the survivors gather in Boulder, they begin to form a new society.  As they do so, however, they slowly become aware of another presence, the opposite of Mother Abigael, this is the dark man, known as Randall Flagg, he is forming his own society in Las Vegas.  Ultimately the two societies will have a showdown.  This is what King calls the Stand.  In presenting this story, King introduces an enormous number of characters, male and female, child and adult, who are actually brought to life by hisextraordinary skill at characterization.  The novel is never boring.  Not for one single word.  King has called this his \\"tale of dark Christianity\\" and it is indeed the story of an epic confronation between the forces of good and evil.  But what makes it great is what makes all King's great work great, his ability to draw the reader into his world by creating living breathing people.  His ability to do this is a kind of genius.  I myself prefer the shorter original version because I think it is tighter.  I presume in the new version, King returned to the text passages his editors forced him to take out when he was less famous and had less product control.  Nevertheless, the new version is excellent as well.  This book, published in 1978 is King at the height of his greatness.  SInce King is so fond of quoting rock songs (He gets the \\"Stand\\" from a verse of the Bruce Springsteen song \\"Jungleland\\" I will say that this book is his Sgt. Pepper, his Whose Next, his Goatshead Soup, his Born to Run.  Need I belabor the point?  Purchase this book immediately and you will not be sorry.  Read it before you read ANY other Stephen King book and you will not regret it.	2002-03-17
US	52552835	R1VDDT4JSHQJXL	0671537628	579948545	Dr. Spock's Baby and Childcare: Seventh Edition	Books	5	41	42	N	N	After 50 Years Still the Best Book On Child Development Ever	This book, originally published fifty years ago and revised a number of times, remains the classic in the field just as Benjamin Spock remains the dean of published pediatric authorities.  Yet no book has been more misunderstood and misinterpreted.  The truth is that Spock's ideas, controversial when originally published, have become so mainstream that one would be hard pressed to find a book on baby and child care that does not incorporate or utilize Spockian theory.<br />The book is a guide to the care and development of children from birth to five years.  While it is chock full of useful information, such as methods of feeding infants, sleep issues in babies and toddlers and toilet training, the real value of the book is it's discussion of the psychological development of children.  At the time the book was published, the prevailing theories of childcare focused almost exclusively on methods of parental control, that is to say discipline.  The experts of the day sought to teach parents how to control their children's behavior but not how to understand that behavior.  Spock changed all that.  By couching his Freudian approach to child development in folksy and simple language, Spock brought the theories of Freud to the entire nation.  Certainly parents would have been horrified to read straightforward Freudian ideas about the Oedipal complex and such things.  Spock simply asserts that girls learn to be women by imitating their mothers and flirting with their fathers and vice versa.  In this manner, Freud's child development theories were accepted into the mainstream.<br />The first sentence of the book states \\"Relax.  You know more than you think you do.\\"  This sums up Spock's common sense approach to the role of  parents in  caring for and guiding the behavior of their children.  This is more true today than when the book was published.  So many parents are caught up in trendy ideas and theories that they fail to step back and observe what is really going on.  Spock's discussion of child psychology, while Freudian based, is not so narrow.  His book is filled with numerous examples of the behavior of babies, toddlers and young children and parents' appropriate or inappropriate responses.  Contrary to popular myth, Spock does not ignore the necessity of discipline.  Indeed, throughout the book, he urges appropriate discipline.  He demonstrates, through example, why young children after the first birthday misbehave.  Sometimes, it is an attempt to manipulate the actions of the parents.  More importantly, as Spock demonstrates, in the period we call the \\"terrible twos\\" and also for children approaching the age of 3 and a half, disobedience is usually an attempt by children to discover the boundaries of their own autonomy.  As such it is a vital and necessary part of human development.  Spock's great innovation is accepting this as natural.  He does not call children who disobey naughty or bad.  But at the same time, he urges parents to set appropriate boundaries and enforce them.  The failure to enforce the limits of a young child's autonomy is what leads to spoiled children.  As Spock points out in his characteristically folksy way, even the children know something is wrong when they are allowed to get away with such actions.  <br />As I stated above, Spock's approach to childcare is virtually universal. No modern child psychologist or pediatrician would argue that the meaning and reason for child behavior is unimportant to the effort to raise healthy adults.  Doctors like Stoppard and Brazelton are full fledged Spockians.  Even the super-famous Dr. Ferber lifts his complicated method straight out of Spock's simple idea that a little crying will not harm a baby.  Indeed, a point Spock often makes is that happy and sane parents are the most important factors in raising happy children.  <br />This book is extremely valuable and makes fascinating reading.  It should be read by all parents and parents to be.  It should be read first cover to cover and then re-read as one's children approach the various ages covered in the book.  It remains one of the signature influential works of the 20th Century and I can't imagine it ever going out of vogue.  Read this book!	2002-03-15
US	52552835	R1SRHA451HD5HV	0316954993	47347911	War and Remembrance	Books	5	168	173	N	N	The Greatest Historical Novel Ever!	Herman Wouk is a great writer.  With War and Remembrance and its predecessor, The Winds of War, He sealed his reputation as a great writer of historical fiction.  Unlike such writers as Leon Uris, who tends to create heroic larger than life heroes and James Michener, who skimps on characterization altogether, Wouk creates brilliantly real figures who seem to live, breath and sometimes die.  Whereas the Winds of War covers the period from just prior to the German invasion of Poland in Sept. 1939 through Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, War and Remembrance covers the period from after Pearl through the surrender of Japan in August 1945.  As with the previous book, Wouk blends his fictional characters with real figures such as Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin and Hitler.    <br />By exploring the experiences of the fictional Henry family and their extended acquaintances, Wouk manages to cover virtually every aspect of this sprawling epic struggle between good and evil.  There is Victor \\"Pug\\" Henry, stoic Navy captain, his dutiful bound son Warren, a Navy flyer bound for action in the Pacific, his formerly wayward son Byron, now a submarine officer who marries the Jewish woman Natalie Jastrow in Europe.  Natalie herself is trapped in Italy with her Uncle, the intellectual scholar Aaron Jastrow and her baby Louis.  The Nazi vice that slowly closes on the American born Natalie is excruciating yet stunningly realistic.  There is Leslie Slote, the callous foreign service officer who has an epiphany when he discovers the plans for the Final Solution and there are many many others.  Wouk blends the personal stories of these characters with an expositional account of the war.  He uses the device of a fictional memoir of an imprisoned German officer to prsent the war from the German perspective.  It is bone-chilling reading.  Finally, Wouk's stunning descriptions of Auschwitz are the most realistic and engrossing description of the Holocaust I have ever read.  This book is moving,gripping and engrossing.  It is also highly educational.  The reader of War and Remembrance will learn a great deal about the Second World War and the War will be brought to life by this book better than any history.  This novel should not be missed nor should The Winds of War.	2002-03-14
US	52552835	R2H5SZ0TRZZBOU	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	3	30	35	N	Y	An Interesting Book But  It Does Not Show What Went Wrong	Bernard Lewis is a noted scholar of the Islamic world with a number of important works on Islam, its culture and its history to his credit.  Like many others (the book has been a best seller), I purchased \\"What Went Wrong\\" hoping to find out more about what darkness in the heart of Islamic society could give rise to the events of September 11.  Given this goal I was somewhat disappointed.  To be sure, the book, although largely in the nature of a survey, still contained a wealth of information about the history of Islamic culture and society.  Yet it is not a discussion of \\"what went wrong\\" in the Islamic world.  Indeed, it hardly touches on the Islamic world in the 20th Century when Arab nationalism, European imperialism and the growth of radical Islamic fundamentalism clashed so severely.  Lewis does touch briefly on these issues but this book is more about the encounters between the Islamic world, and Christendom that began in the Medieval period and the effect this had on Islamic development.<br />  Lewis describes a Medieval Islamic world consisting of three peoples, the Ottoman Turks, The Arabs and the Persians (later known as Iranians).  During the Medieval period and thereafter, the Islamic world was dominated by the Turks.  Lewis describes an Islamic world contemptuous of the West militarily, culturally and religiously.  At the height of its power, in the late 15th Century, the Islamic world completely destroyed the secular power of the Eastern Orthodox Church, converted large numbers of Eastern Europeans in the Balkans to Islam.  Slowly but surely, however, the  forces of the Christian World pushed the Ottomans back to the borders they held until their fall after WWI.  Lewis chronicles Islamic efforts to modernize scientifically and militarily without really modernizing in terms of thought, philosophy and political culture.<br />What this leads to is an Islamic world which, despite intermittent attempts to incorporate Western scientific advances and innovations in military tactics, remained largely impervious to Western influence.  So the portrait of Islam is of a society frozen in place.  Highly progressive and advanced by the standards of the 15th century, the Islamic world failed to develop in the manner of the West and, thus,, failed to incorporate the changes necessary for a civilization to truly advance.<br />Lewis is a somewhat dry but scholarly writer who does a good job of describing the differences between various aspects of the Western and Islamic societies.  Since this book is about the Islamic world, this is where he concentrates his descriptions.  Thus, we learn a great deal of detail about the political structure of the Ottoman Empire and its relationship to the Islamic religion but little about why secularism failed to take root in the East as it did in the west. In my view, the advance of Western civilization can be summed up concisely as follows: Unlike in the Islamic world, in the Western Christian world, the secular rulers, never accepted (despite rhetoric to the contrary) the primacy of the Church of Rome , even over the local bishopries, let alone over secular affairs. The struggle  between Church and State in Western Europe, ultimately led to the emergence of powerful secular nation states, namely England, France, Spain and the Netherlands, as well as the strong German and Italian principalities.  The relative weakness of Rome  would ultimately lead to the protestant reformation and then to the European enlightenment.  This revolution in political, scientific and philosophical thought was opposed by the Roman Church but its triumph made possible the development of the truly liberal modern society that characterizes the Western World today.  Why this did not happen in the Islamic world is obviously a complicated question that Lewis does not answer in this book.  For those looking for a relatively simple rundown of the ways in which the Islamic world and Christian world differed over the past sixhundred years, this book provides a good overview.  For those looking to find out \\"What Went Wrong\\" this is not the book that will answer this question.past six hundred years, this book provides a good overview.  For those looking to find out \\"What Went Wrong\\" this is not the book that will answer this question.	2002-03-13
US	52552835	R391CSN8243J0L	0060915331	732260177	A History of the Jews	Books	5	331	337	N	N	A Saga Of Four Thousand Years!	This is my third book by British historian Paul Johnson.  There is no question that he is an extremely talented writer and an excellent but opinionated historian.  As always this combination makes for a lively and exciting read.  Johnson states in the introduction that, as a believing Christian, he feels he owes much to the Jewish people who he greatly admires.  He therefore felt that he wanted to write a complete history.  It proves that a good Jewish history does not need to be written by a Jew.  Johnson divides Jewish history into a series of epochs, each one of which consumes a part in the book.  The chapters are called \\"Israelites\\" which covers the biblical period, \\"Judaism\\" which covers the period from the building of the Second Temple through the early Christian and early Islamic period, \\"Cathedocracy\\" in which Johnson deals with the experience of the Jews under medieval Christendom and Islam, \\"Ghetto\\" which deals with the late Medieval and Renaissance period in Europe.  \\"Emancipation\\" which discusses the 18th and 19th centuries in Europe, \\"Holocaust\\" which needs no further explanation and \\"Zion\\" which covers not only the birth of modern Israel but also the post-war Jewish experience world wide. <br />This book is enormously detailed and highly opinionated.  Johnson's affection for the Jewish people shines through on virtually every page.  Never one to hedge on a conclusion, Johnson has opinions on everyone from Abraham to Begin.  My favorite chapter was the opening one, \\"Israelites\\".  Here Johnson attempts to use similarities between biblical descriptions and known facts of other ancient civilzations to demonstrate that the bible, from Abraham forward is essentially historical.  This section will be of enormous interest to everyone, whatever your knowledge of the bible. The Jewish saga is the human saga.  It is complete with pathos, absurdity, tragedy and triumph.  It is remarkable that an ancient people could survive under such hostile conditions.  Really amiracle.  Johnson captures the essence of that miracle.  The entire book will be of interest to those with less than complete knowledge of Jewish history.  It will also be excellent reading for those who have a good knowledge of Jewish history because of Johnson's excellent writing ability.  This book is well worth the money.	2002-03-12
US	52552835	R36Y5R4UHZZ315	0971453233	841150528	On Becoming Childwise: Parenting Your Child from 3-7 Years	Books	4	78	94	N	N	Control Your Children!	As parents of a three year old, my wife and I often encounter parents who seem to be ruled by the whims of their young children.  You don't have to be an expert on child development to know that a young child needs boundaries and discipline.  And yet so many parents today are reluctant to provide this. By trying to be their child's &quot;friend&quot; they are faling the child as parents.  In this excellent little book, the authors provide a welcome antidote to much of the so-called &quot;child centric&quot; theory currently in vogue.  According to this book, childhood is to be divided into a number of periods with the appropriate parental relationship different in each period.  In the period covered by this book, 3-7, the authors stress the need for parents to bring their children under the control of parental authority.  Only once children respect the authority of their parents can they be taught the important lessons and values that will turn them into healthy adults.  The authors provide numerous case studies of situations in which parents do or do not act appropriately.  At the end of each chapter they provide review questions.  Each chapter concerns a different area of potential trouble.  For example in one chapter the authors condem the notion of excessive choice.  In another chapter, the authors discuss the vital importance of discipline and stress the absolute necessity that every act of discipline impart a lesson that the parents are teaching.  In other words, discipline should never be out of anger but as an instructional tool.  <br />This book has a great deal to offer.  Many parents don't realize the harm they are doing their children through overindulgence.  WHen I see friends whose children have no bedtime, whose older children refuse to stay in their rooms  at night, who refuse to do their homework, who will not eat dinner at the family table, who rule the household, I realize that the pendulum has swung to far in the other direction.  I think the authors are a little inflexible on certain issues.  For example, I find that providing children with choices (reasonable ones of course) can give them a sense of empowerment.  The trick is to make them choose &quot;A&quot; or &quot;B&quot; not to give them the choice of saying &quot;no&quot; altogether.  This book provides food for thought.  I highly recommend that readers of this book read Dr. Spock's Guide to Baby and Childcare.  Spock is not the child centered theorist that people think and he too argues that children need structure, discipline and a sense that their parents are authority figures.	2002-03-12
US	52552835	RQ3ABO90S7797	0553713582	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's Counterterrorism Wars	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	The Spy Who Got Left Out In The Cold!	The image that most people have of the CIA is either the manipulative master spy agency which assasinates foreign leaders, and overthrows governments or an agency at home in the excting swashbuckling world of international espionage of James Bond. The truth, as Robert Baer describes it, is much less exciting. Baer was a CIA field officer for more than twenty years and by his own description, one of the last of the true adventurers. This book is part memoir and a large expose of a vital element of our national security which has gone bad. In the first part of the book, Baer describes his unnusual childhood and explains how he came to be hired by the CIA despite a lackluster college career. When he joined the agency in 1976, the old cowboys who built the CIA from the old OSS were retiring and dying off. Baer was a throwback to the old days. An officer who believed that his job was to develop useful information about the country to which he was stationed. Baer describes how a field officer in the Division of Operations works, how a foreign agent is recruited. He recounts his first jittery assignment in India. <br />In the next part of the book Baer recalls how he came to specialize in the Middle East, having learned Arabic. It is at this point that his disillusionment began as well. He arrives in Beruit shortly after the Embassy bombing that killed 14 CIA officers. Eager to get to the bottom of it, he finds himself stonewalled by managers who seem to be interested in nothing more than not rocking the boat with the State Department. When posted to London and Hamburg in the 80's, Baer discovers that Islamic radicals, having been exiled from their home countries, have set up shop and begun to form terrorist cells. When he suggests infiltrating these groups he is told that the CIA doesn't run agents in friendly countries! This is a stunning lapse of sense as we now know all to well. <br />Throughout the book, Baer describes himself as someone comfortable in the stealthy world of foreign espionage but a fish out of water in the murky world of Washington politics and CIA bureaucracy. No matter how much he was rebuffed in his efforts to promote the interests of the United States in the places to which he is posted, Baer seems to have never lost his Candide-like naivity. He continues to expect that THIS TIME, the agency will do the right thing. This is apparently why he stuck it out so long. <br />The most compelling part of Baer's story comes in the 90's when he is posted to the Northern Kurdish controlled part of Iraq. Finding opportunities to support groups who might overthrow Sadaam Hussein, which he assumed to be U.S. policy, he is stunned when he and the anti-Sadaam players have the rug pulled out from under them by a venal Clinton White House. To make matters worse, Baer is recalled to Washington and falsely accused of attempted murder. ALthough cleared of this charge, he is rewarded for his valient efforts by being posted to a dead end career killer in Washington.  That such an excellent field operative would be turned into a desk jockey for political reasons is a stunning indictment of the entire Washington culture. At CIA headquarters, he learns just how slimy both Washington politics and the Clinton administration are. Indeed, he documents how the overriding concern of the Clinton administration seemed to be not American security interests but protecting the business of Big Oil. <br />He also writes about how the Aldrich Ames spy scandal basically gave the FBI the imputus to destroy the CIA from the bottom up. Virtually every field officer was harassed and investigated for espionage. Ironically, the FBI was ignorant of its own master spy Robert Hanssen who continued to operate during this period. <br />Ultimately, after Baer's attempts to blow the whistle to Congress go nowhere he decides to resign. That a brilliant field agent could have his career destroyed by untalented mediocrities is horrifying. This is a very frighteningbook. In his introduction, Baer tells us how angry he is that the only thing standing between the 9/11 terrorists and the White House were the brave people of flight 93. The CIA and the entire American national security community abrogated their responsibilities and nothing seems to have improved. Baer heard from a source that a CIA bigwig believes an investigation will show that 9/11 was an intelligence triumph not a failure. Baer says that if this is a true statement then he is frightened for the future of our country. I am inclined to believe him. This book describes the destruction of a once useful agency by as Baer puts it \\"political correctness, by petty Beltway wars, by careerism, and much more\\" There is no disputing Baer's conclusion that on \\"September 11, 2001, the reckoning of such vast carelessness was presented for all the world to see.\\" The complete book on the failures of the national security/intelligence world to protect this nation has yet to be written. Baer's book is a good introduction to the CIA's role in that failure. I recomend this book to everyone. It was an eye opener. Every member of COngress should be compelled to read it. Congress and the President should overhall the CIA from top to bottom and recruit dedicated people like Robert Baer who want to serve and protect the United States and who will be rewarded not punished for their efforts.	2002-03-12
US	52552835	R362U5WKD94WKT	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not his best but King's Always Worth Reading	I have been a huge Steven King fan for more than twenty years. I have read every novel he has ever written as well as his story collections and novella collections. I can say without hesitation that King is one of the finest writers I have ever read. His mechanical ability to put words on paper and bring characters and situations to life are second to none. Perhaps no writer has ever gotten inside the heads of his characters, male or female, better. Nevertheless, the quality of his work varies considerably. Where King occasionally veers off course is when he allows his plots to move out of control. The history of King's novels shows a tendency towards two types of books. These are the \\"epics\\" which have large expanisive plots and multiple characters and the \\"little novels\\" which tend to involve few or even a single character and a simple plot. On the whole, King's best work has been with the simple novels. An exception is The Stand which is his greatest book and a truly sprawling epic. His little novels such as \\"Pet Sematery\\", \\"Cujo\\" and \\"Misery\\" to just name a few are uniformly excellent. Other epics like \\"It\\" and \\"Insomnia\\" get lost in their bizarre ever expansive plots. <br />\\"Dreamcatcher\\" falls somewhere in between. In this epic, King imagines a horrible predatory alien incursion in the woods of New England. Most often the aliens invade and take over the minds of their victims before slowly killing them. In a few horrible cases, they grow in the intestines of their victims into horrible monsters before bursting out, killing the victim and anyone else they can sink their teeth into. King chronicles the experience of four childhood friends (a common King motif) on a hunting trip who are caught up in this disaster. He also follows the top secret military people sent to the area to finish off the aliens. (and any people caught within the red zone) The book is a decent yarn as all of Kings books really are. The characters are straight out of the King stockroom: The[mentally challenged] man with \\"special insight\\"; the long haired ex hippy the depressed establishment guy, the evil G-man. I recommend the book because I recommend all of King's books. But it is not in my top ten.	2002-03-08
US	52552835	RLECAMHK732VX	0375505636	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	Study the Past to Prepare for the Future!	In this little tract which is part philosophy, part history, Robert Kaplan makes the case for a foreign policy based on state interest and not on notions of international law or higher morality.  In building his case for a \\"realpolitik foreign policy\\" Kaplan utilizes wars and diplomatic maneuvers of the past going as far back as the Peloponisian War.  It is his thesis that human nature does not change and the lessons learned more than 2,000 years ago are still applicable today.  He also discusses and crtiques a number of political and ethical philosophies.  These are presented in a cursory but easily comprehensible way.  Kaplan's presentation of Machievelli, Sun Tzu, Thucydides, Hobbes, Kant and others are interesting and fair.  He draws very specific conclusions which sometimes seem contradictory.  FOr example, Kaplan is highly critical of \\"determinism\\" be it of the religious kind he associates with Christianity, the liberal kind which holds that the human condition will inevitably improve, or the ideological kind associated with Marx.  On the other hand, he is critical of those who would refuse to observe and pay heed to the lessons of the past in predicting future events.  Kaplan saves himself, however, by always qualifying his statements and never espousing absolutes.  Kaplan starts from the premise that American style liberalism is a positive that should be expanded.  He argues, however, that without political stability, liberalism cannot take hold.  In Kaplan's view it is short sighted to insist on elections in a country which would just elect a tyrant.  Better to have a benign dictator who can help advance the aims of society.  Kaplan's detractors use these views to show that he is not a democrat but a lover of dictatorships.  This is not so.  Kaplan recognizes the reality that most of the world is not politically or socially mature enough for an American style system.  He believes that the United States must promote its own interests, ruthlessly if necessary.  Otherwise, we will undermine our ability to ultimately improve world conditions.  Thus, Kaplan's philosophy is not the promotion of selfish interests but the pursuit of self-interest for the purpose of ultimately promoting the greater good.  Kaplan calls this \\"Pagan ethos.\\"  By this, he simply means a form of Greco-Roman real politik which he  observed from reading the works of Thucydides and Livy.  Winston Churchill stands as the ultimate \\"Pagan Leader\\" and he uses CHurchill's \\"River War.\\" as an early demonstration of CHurchill's thinking.  I found this book to be a fascinating introduction to a lot of philosophical ideas and a new way of looking at a number of important thinkers.  I agree with Kaplan's notion that great powers must act, at times ruthlessly, to promote their own interests and that such action is a sign of virtue not evil.  A good example is the allied victory in WWII which brought unimaginable suffering to individuals but without a doubt brought about a greater good.  I agree with Kaplan that WIlsonian diplomacy based on international law is nothing more than a grand illusion.  All diplomacy is about power.  The thing I don't agree with is the degree of reliance Kaplan places on the past.  There is a lot of difference between the U.S. today and ancient Athens or Rome.  We can learn useful lessons from the past but, as Churchill did, we must be wise enough to distinguish the past from the present where warranted. There is an enormous amount of meat in this little book.  I have focused here on a few things Kaplan discusses but other reviews have focused on completely different things. This book is thought provoking and worth reading.  I recommend it.	2002-03-08
US	52552835	R65FDPV48O0W	0345412702	39654007	Moses: A Life	Books	4	20	25	N	N	The Real Moses?  Who Knows!	Since there is no archeological evidence that Moses ever existed, author Jonathan Kirsch uses the words of the bible,together with modern biblical scholarship to re-create the great prophet who exists between the lines of scripture.  Kirsch goes through each chapter of the bible beginning with the book of Exodus and ending with the book of Deuteronomy and shows where various traditions and counter-traditions might have intersected.  He shows the Moses who is portrayed as a great hero by the \\"Deuteronomist\\" and the Moses whose role is diminished by the \\"Priestly source.\\"  He discusses virtually every theory including the theory that their were two Moses and the first was murdered!  This is surely not the book to read if you are a bible literalist (or an Orthodox Jew) and I certainly don't agree with all his points, being partial to the biblical story myself.  But Kirsch is a lively writer and it is an interesting read nonetheless, as is Kirsch's \\"King David\\".	2002-03-06
US	52552835	RM0UXQFOKNJMR	0827607121	479567609	Etz Hayim: Torah and Commentary	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Finally- A Chumash for Conservative Jews!	We in the Conservative movement have been waiting for this Chumash for a long time.  Using the excellent JPS translation, the Chumash contains three types of commentary, traditional, modern and a third special section where the commentators show the torah sources of various halachic rules.  At the end of the book is a series of essays by top conservative rabbis and thinkers on a number of important subjects which explains some of the Conservative perspectives on such things as revelation and also (the COnservative strength) examines aspects of bible life such as war and the role of women historically.  For those who find the typical Orthodox refusal to use commentary (even Orthodox commentary) after the 13th century problematic and yet find the Reform primary focus on the modern, to lack reverence for tradition, this is the Chumash for you!	2002-03-06
US	52552835	R2DC3WZLKKE04A	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Star-Crossed Rivalry!	This book is a fascinating look at the long term connections between two politicians whose presence stood like a giant shadow on the post-war period.  As Matthews chronicles, Jack Kennedy and Richard Nixon entered Congress together in 1946 and from the day they met had a love-hate relationship.  Nixon, pathologically jealous of Kennedy's family conncetions, style and grace, nonetheless deeply admired him.  Kennedy was more contemtuous of Nixon but, nonetheless, his family gave money to Nixon's Senate campaign.  When both Nixon and Kennedy served in the Senate, their offices were right next to each other.  Nixon was invited to Kennedy's wedding in 1953 but was required to play golf with President Eisenhower instead! The anectodes from this period show Nixon's warm affection for Kennedy.  When Kennedy was near death from back surgery, Nixon broke down in tears.  The relationship changed when the two opposed each other for president and as Matthews demonstrates, when Nixon narrowly lost, he was devastated.  Kennedy's death in 1963 tormented Nixon but according to Matthews, it led to the transfer of the rivalry from JFK to his brothers.  First, in 1968, Nixon was deeply afraid that Bobby Kennedy would get the nomination and beat him.  More importantly, in 1972, Nixon was desparately afraid that youngest brother Ted would suddenly appear on the scene to take what he had won.  According to Matthews, this may well have been the real reason for the Watergate break in.  While it is difficult to understand why a super popular Nixon in 1972 would so fear defeat that he would go down the path of Watergate, I think it is far fetched to state that his pathological fear of defeat by the Kennedy's was the prime motive.  Nevertheless, this does not detract from the book at all.  Both Nixon and the Kennedy's are fascinating larger than life people and their unique friendship/rivalry is virtually unheralded in American history.  The story makes for a great read.	2002-03-06
US	52552835	R393OC2NMX5HOU	0691090831	85299297	The Presidential Difference: Leadership Style from FDR to Clinton.	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Presidential Leadership in the 20th Century	This book by political scientist Fred Greenstein is the first I've read focusing, not on presidential achievement but on effective leadership.  Using a series of criteria including vision, cognitive ability, management style and most importantly emotional intelligence, Greenstein looks briefly yet closely at each president from FDR through Clinton with a special afterword on George W. Bush. (pre 9/11) Greenstein chronicles the successes and failings of each president he profiles.  Roosevelt receives the highest regards for his ability to translate his popularity into bold leadership.  His secretive and manipulative management style is condemmed.  Truman is praised for his management style but criticized for his inability at times to lead the nation along the lines of his vision.  There is truth to this criticism but Greenstein doesn't look at external facotrs that effected Truman's ability to govern such as the Republican demagoguery of the Democrats as &quot;soft on communism&quot;.  Eisenhower is highly praised, and properly so, for his strong management style and his strong, quiet leadership.  Kennedy gets deserved criticism for his early failings but not enough credit for his later growth.  One thing Kennedy is properly criticized for, in my view, is his overreliance on intellectuals, something that would plague Clinton as well.  After Kennedy we have a series of failed presidents, with Ford excepted. The common denominator between Johnson, Nixon and Carter are their weak emotional intelligence quotas.  All are thin skinned, unable to work well with others, naturally suspicious of those outside their circle.  Clinton too is regarded as weak emotionally.  Greenstein's thesis is that persons of low emotional intelligence should not become president as it is a recipe for failure.  Interestingly, in his brief comments on President Bush, written before Sept. 11, 2001, he predicts, based on his observations of Bush's steady emotional inner core, that he will be a strong and succesful leader.  You don't have to agree with Greenstein's entire analysis to appreciate the achievement of this book.  It is refreshing to read a book about the presidency that moves beyond Arthur Schlesinger's tired and outdated theory of active and passive presidents.  A good read and I highly recommend it.	2002-03-05
US	52552835	R3405BW4SJ68M3	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	4	9	19	N	N	Pius Was No Saint!	John Cornwall began his research into the life of Pius XII with the blessings of the vatican and the intentions of exonerating him of charges that he was complicit in the Holocaust.  By the time he concluded his research, he had completely changed his conclusion.  This book is a devastating indictment of a man who was spiritual leader of millions and yet failed in his moral duty during the worst moral crisis in human history.  To call Pius \\"Hitler's Pope\\" is hyperbolic and not fair.  Pius was not pro-Nazi or facist.  Nevertheless, Cornwall's review of his life reveals a man steeped in Cannon law, deeply antisemetic and ardently anti-communist.  As Cornwall shows, Eugenio Pacelli, first as a vatican lawyer, then as papal nunciate to Berlin during the Hitler's rise to power, seemd less concerned with the spirituality of Catholics under hsi charge and more concerned with protecting the prerogative of Rome over the German church.  Indeed, enahncing the secular power of the Vatican over the local churches seems to have been Pacelli's life obsession.  In this way he behaved no differently from any other diplomat protecting his nation's interest. But Pacelli was a priest, not a secular diplomat. As Cornwall shows, Pacelli had an   <BR>obligation to strenghten German catholic resistance to Hitler.  Instead, his concordat with Germany essentially neutered the Catholic Democratic party which was strong enough that it might have blunted Hitler's rise or at least his complete destruction of the rule of law.  By the time Pacelli became Pope it was too late.  <BR>Cornwall does not argue that Pius was complicit in the murder of European Jewry.  Nor does he imply that Pius's anti-semetism made him indifferent to the magnitude of Hitler's crimes.  But what  <BR>he does reveal is that the Vatican did much much less than it could have both to save Jewish lives on an individual basis and <BR>more importantly, to bring the scope and magnitude of Hitler's crimes to light while there wasstill time to do something about it.  A concerted Vatican campaign for ALlied action might have had an effect.  In the end, Cornwall's Pius does not come across as \\"Hitler's Pope\\" but as a flawed very human and certainly unheroic man.  He effectively counters Vatican propoganda that Pius saved thousands of lives and did all he could.  He makes a clear case why Eugenio Pacelli, a man who had the moral authority of the entire Catholic Church acted more as a Machievallien prince than the Holy Father Catholics expect.  Quite clearly, this man should   <BR>never be canonized.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-03-05
US	52552835	R2LLC8BTSVXN6X	0671456547	680068737	Truman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Brilliant Bio of A Remarkable Man!	Harry S. Truman did not graduate from college. He failed at every business he ever entered. He didn't marry his wife unti his mid-30's because he felt he could not support her. He entered politics more as a way to earn a living than for any other reason. He owed his political career to the corrupt Pendergast Machine in St. Louis yet was scrupulously honest. Despite such humble beginnings, Truman rose to the Presidency and became one of the greatest in American history. By way of full disclosure I will reveal that I am a big admirer of Harry Truman. So is David McCullough and it shows in this excellent biography. While the book is a little slow as it covers Truman's early life (which was actually quite dull and ordinary) It picks up steam as Truman rises from local judge to Missouri Senator to Vice President and then to the residency on Roosevelt's death. It is here that the book really comes to life because the era of the Truman presidency, from 4/45 through 12/52 was one of the liveliest and most remarkable eras in the 20th century. Upon taking office, Truman had to face decisions relating to the ending of the war. Although Germany surrendered within weeks, Japan was far from finished and the invasion was being planned. When Truman was told the atomic bomb was available and could end the war immediately, he never hesitated to order its use. McCullough makes a strong argument that this decision was not only justified but essentially unopposed by all relevant figures within the government. Truman's plainspoken folksiness comes through such as the time at the Potstdam conference when Soviet foreign minister Molotov, a Stalin lackey, told Truman no one had ever spoken to him like that in his entire life. \\"Keep your agreements and you won't be spoken to like that.\\" Truman retorted. The rest of Truman's presidency was filled with momentous events and decisions. These include the breakdown of the wartime alliance and the beginning of the cold war with its first battle being the Soviet blockade of Berlin, <BR>the momentous creation of the Marshall Plan, and the formation of NATO. Truman's first term concluded with his decision that the U.S. would support the partition of Palestine thereby creating the state of Israel. In insisting on this position, Truman opposed the position of the entire State Department, including George Marshall, a man he admired more than any other. Marshall threatened to resign over this issue. Truman refused to let him. <BR>Of course the remarkable 48 election is chronicled in the book including Truman's insistence that the Party Platform include a civil rights plank, something Roosevelt would never agree to. <BR>It led to the walkout of the southern delagation. Finally, Truman's second term was consumed by the Korean War, including his conflict with Douglas McArthur. Truman's flaws are not whitewashed yet this author is a clear admirer and properly so in my opinion. In today's world where political courage seems non-existent, Truman is an example we can all look back on with admiration. He made his mistakes but always did what he thought was right and never had any regrets. The nation is lucky he became vice-president in 1944 and McCullough's excellent book which won a Pulitzer Prize is a must read. His writing is straightforward but every fact is meticulously documented. There is no made up dialogue or imagined scenes ala Edmund Morris. All fans of American history must read this book.	2002-03-02
US	52552835	R1Y8Z5QGLPPZ18	0789444127	462348543	American College of Physicians Complete Home Medical Guide (with Interactive Human Anatomy CD-ROM) (American College of Physicians Homecare Guides)	Books	3	5	8	N	Y	A solid basic intorductory encyclopedia of health	This book is worth owning and I am glad I have it.  It is not a substitute, obviously, for seeing a doctor nor is it a substitute for solid research on the internet.  But for basic problems, the information is good.	2002-03-01
US	52552835	R194453BYJEOOX	0465043690	969448338	A Grand Delusion: America's Descent Into Vietnam	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Dense Authoritative Comprehensive	The basics of the Vietnam disaster are familiar to all of us.  There is much new information to learn, however, about the political aspects of the conflict.  All this and more is covered in great detail in this enormous volume by Robert Mann. Besides the familiar details exposed by David Halberstam some thirty years ago in \\"The Best and the Brightest\\", Mann documents in enormous detail the political events related to Vietnam each and every year beginning with the French defeat and running right through the fall of Saigon in 1975.  This was far and away America's longest war and there is much to tell.  While Mann blames Eisenhower and Kennedy, he reserves the bulk of blame for Lyndon Johnson who knew the struggle was hopeless yet refused to be \\"the first president to lose a war.\\"  Johnson also misled COngress and the country at large as to the costs of the war because he was afraid it would jeopardize his domestic programs.  This book is most useful, however, in showing the evolution of later war opponents like Mike Mansfield William Fulbright and George McGovern.  All supported the war in its early stages.  Much has been written about this war and much still needs to be written.  While all concede the war was a disaster opinions still vary on why. Could the war have been won?  Was it worth fighting at all? Why did these political figures who later opposed the war support it at the beginning?  These are questions Mann attempts to answer.  The book is not easy or light reading but is a necessary antidote to a generation of books and films which portray the horror of the war but not the why's of it.  It's a good read and I recommend it.	2002-03-01
US	52552835	R3JB3DCCDQOHAG	0688123627	545487873	Israel: A History	Books	4	82	95	N	N	A Sturdy Comprehensive History of Modern Israel	Why is it that any history of Israel which does not conclude that Zionism is a crime against human nature is \\"biased\\".  Even many supporters of Israel regard works that look favorably on the Jewish state as somehow \\"biased.\\"  The reality is that any fair neutral analysis will show Israel in a favorable light and its enemies unfavorably.  Martin Gilbert's extensive history is such a book.  It is not necessary to re-create the myths of Zionism and to whitewash bad acts of the Israelis in order to conclude that Israel is a just country and one that Americans should support.  Gilbert makes no attempt to persuade the reader in this regard.  Instead he comprehensively (and sometimes pedantically) lays out the facts and events of history.  The book is not biased at all.  Gilbert is not gifted at prosaic writing as was the man for whom he is official biographer, Winston Churchill.  If you want to read a British historian whose prose resembles Churchill, the author to read is Paul Johnson.  But Gilbert is a gifted historian and this book is eminently readable and thus serves as an excellent introduction to and reference guide for Israeli history through the late 90's.  Of course recent events beg for a second edition.  We will see.	2002-03-01
US	52552835	R6U5UUPZPR35T	1568219679	880220583	The Synagogue Survival Kit	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	An Excellent Introduction to Jewish Ritual and Prayer	Jordan Wagner, who is not to my knowledge a rabbi, has put together an excellent little tract which explains in a basic yet comprehensive manner, the structure of the Jewish prayer service and  the ins and outs of Synagogue ritual.  Wagner states on his website that he wrote the book in order to educate some non-Jewish friends as to what to expect at a Synagogue service.  The book is extensively footnoted and well written.  It should be of interest to non-educated Jews interested in learning the meaning of the liturgy and non-Jews interested in the Jewish religion.  It does not cover the other topics such as the laws of Kashrut (dietary laws) or the Holidays but focuses on the daily and Sabbath services.	2002-03-01
US	52552835	R1BYQXHSK4XNRI	0671662414	105963080	O Jerusalem!	Books	5	135	142	N	N	One of the Greatest Books on Israel Ever Written	\\"O Jerusalem\\" is a classic.  By focusing on one narrow yet vitally important aspect of the Arab-Jewish conflict surrounding the birth of Israel between WWII and 1948, the authors bring to life all the characters, good bad and neutral who played a role in the saga of Jerusalem.  As readers of the book will discover, prior to 1948, Jerusalem was a city with a mixed Jewish-Arab population.  The Arabs and Jews lived in relative harmony, sometimes in mixed neighborhoods.  Under British rule, all religious groups had access to their own holy sights.  The authors demonstrate how villaims like Husseini, the Mufti of Jerusalem, a rabid anti-semite who spent WWII hiding from the British in Berlin, brought ruin to the Arabs of Jerusalem.  Indeed, the Arabs come across as the ultimate victims, which they were.  Their victimizers were not the Jews, however, but their fellow Arabs.  Ultimately, war comes in 1948 and the Jews are victorious in establishing the state of Israel.  Many Arab residents of Jerusalem are forced from their homes either by the Israeli Defense Force, fellow Arabs or their own fears.  Most wind up in the part of the city that has come to be known as \\"East Jerusalem\\".  The old city, including the Jewish Quarter and the Western Wall is captured by Jordan and ALL Jews are expelled.  The book describes in great detail, the tragic consequences of this conflict which was not wanted by the Jews, not wanted by their Arab neighbors but spurred on by interlopers like the Mufti, the British and many bad players fromt he Arab world like King Abdullah.  It is a fair analysis.  It does not make the Jews out to be saints nor does it portray all the Arabs as blood thirsty monsters.  It lays blame where it belongs.  Those pre-disposed to a revisionist view of Israel's birth will not appreciate this book because its fair analysis does not meet with revisionist ideology.  But for anyone who wants to learn the truth about this conflict, this book is a must read.	2002-02-26
US	52552835	R237WV5T8L5EYA	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Must Read for Any Student of the Kennedy Presiency!	Richard Reeves has produced a remarkable tour de force in this extensive day by day chronicle of the Kennedy administration.  Somehow, through a combination of archival work and interviewing of key surviving players, Reeves has managed to completely capture Kennedy the president from his inauspicious beginning to the day of his tragic death.  What a pleasure to read a book about JFK that is not focused on his sordid personal life or is not a revisionist effort to malign him.  Indeed, the subtitle of this book really describes it because the story of the Kennedy presidency is the story of how an ambitious, bright and fundamentally serious playboy learns to wield presidential power.  Of course the most remarkable part of the book is the Cuban Missle Crisis and here we see, from an unbiased historian, not the President's brother (RFK) or house historian (Arthur Schlesinger Jr.) just how Kennedy's essential caution and coolness may have saved the world from disaster.  This book effectively refutes the current revisionist spin that Kennedy was an essentially frivilous and corrupt person.  To the contrary, the Kennedy of Reeve's book  comes across as serious, thoughtful and comfortable with the reigns of power.  It leads one to wonder what a second term would have been like. Most important though, this book brings Kennedy to life and this is no small talent for a biographer, especially one focused primarily on Kennedy's life as president and not his personal life.  This is not \\"Life Goes To Camelot\\" and it is a pleasure!	2002-02-20
US	52552835	R3R0094JGT6B26	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Good Journalism So So History	Halberstam's first book on political history in some time reads more like an extended piece from the Washington Post than a serious work of history.  The book is essentially a chronicle of American Foreign Policy in the 90's beginning with the Gulf War and culminating in the Kosovo campaign.  Halberstam's great strentgh is his remarkable ability, through extensive interviews, to bring to life, individuals who the public largely knows through dry news stories, if at all.  Thus, we learn all we are ever likely to about such figures as Richard Holbrooke, Anthony Lake, Madeline Albright, James Baker and many others.  What this book is really a history of is not American foreign policy in the 90's but the American foreign policy (and defense) establishment in the 90's.  We learn how the personalities of the two presidents, Bush and Clinton and the men and women with whom they surrounded themselves, shaped American policy.  What is clear is that Halberstam has an outsiders contempt for the Clinton people in particular.  What I liked about the book is its readability and its newsworthiness.  Halberstam is great at imparting little known facts.  What the book lacks is any real broader perspective or conclusion.  What does Halberstam think are the consequences of the Clinton timidity?  What alternatives does he favor?  What do the Clinton successes and failures say about the nature of power and politics in the 90's?  These are some of the questions which are never answered and ultimately this book left me hungering for more.  By comparison, with an historian like Paul Johnson (Modern Times), you may not agree with him but no one would ever say he lacks a grand perspective.	2002-02-20
US	52552835	RPM8S5RSVUYZQ	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	3	8	12	N	N	A Facinating View But Not For Beginners	As with all his books of history, Paul Johnson's great strength is his ability to show the characters of history as live people with strengths and weaknesses.  His very British prose style makes for enjoyable reading.  I would not recommend this book for beginners without a background in American history anymore than I would a left wing history of the U.S. because Johnson's opinions are so strong that the book occassionally lacks objectivity.  I found myself agreeing more with his views of the 19th and 18th centuries than with the 20th.  His description of Lincoln as a \\"kind of moral genius\\" is poetic and apt.  His high regard for the framers of the Constitution is a welcome respite from the annoying revisionism which has pervaded history in recent years.  He is very good at debunking myth. Thus the idea of the \\"robber barron\\" is deconstructed to some extent.  In the 20th century, I find myself in disagreement with him often.  There is nothing wrong with cutting FDR down to size.  His reputation is so overblown that it needs paring.  But he dismisses one of our greatest Presidents as a frivilous man and blames him for every mistake of his time while giving him little or no credit for his depression and wartime leadership.  This is unfair.  On a broader level, he seems to dismiss the entire progressive era of American history as either mistaken or irrelevant.  Although acknowledging the need for reforms in the post war period in the area of civil rights, he dwells on the negatives while largely failing to note the almost revolutionary change in the treatment of blacks in this country.    <BR>In short, the book is written from the perspective of a conservative ideologue and it hurts his analysis in some cases.  I enjoyed the book enormously but did not find it as good an analysis as I did \\"Modern Times\\", his fabulous history of the 20th Century.	2002-02-17
US	52552835	RILZ0QAU5QJAD	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Fascinating and Largely Accurate Look at the 20th Century	I am a big fan of Paul Johnson because, if nothing else, he is the liveliest writer of history I have ever encountered.  This book covers the history of the world in the twentieth century.  I have read the earlier edition which only runs until the mid-eighties, prior to the collapse of the eastern bloc which is too bad because I'm sure he has much to say of interest about this event.  Johnson is an historian who is unafraid to offend and very strong in his opinions.  This book is quite informative and useful for those who already have a knowledge of the basic events about which he writes.<BR>As with all his works, Johnson takes a decisively non-Marxian approach to history.  He does not believe that the twentieth century is a history of competing economic forces or even the forces of progress versus the forces of stasis.  Rather his running theme is the tragedy and devastation wrought by the combined forces of totalitarian ideology and the collapse of the Western colonial system. ALthough I don't agree with all his views, particularly of some of the American Presidents (he finds Nixon a great leader and Watergate and overblown media created scandle) I see his essential view of the 20th Century as accurate.  <BR>I might add that the events of September 11 have shown us that little has changed for the better with the collapse of Soviet Communism and that totalitarianism is alive and well.  We should hope it does not becomne the running theme of a history of the 21st Century	2002-02-16
US	52552835	RMMY1C5E4XTGX	1893554430	755889913	The Mideast Peace Process: An Autopsy	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Why The Peace Process Failed	This book is a series of essays previously printed in Commentary Magazine from 1993 through 2000.  They are printed in chronological order and demonstrate how and why the Oslo Process collapsed in failure.  Commentary was long a Cassandra screaming into the wind.  These essays which seemed provacative at the time they were written now seem remarkably prescient.  The book will be of interest to any fair minded person interested in the state of Israel and its well being.	2002-02-16
US	52552835	R35L6DLLSZBNQR	0316955108	612064026	The Caine Mutiny: A Novel	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Brilliant Classic On Multi Levels!	Why is this book so great?  Why did it win a Pulitzer Prize?  Not because it was an engrossing story of the WWII Navy, which it was.  Rather because it has all the elements that make a novel great. Herman Wouk is brilliant at characterization and unlike many other good characterizers such as Steven King, he does it almost with the brevity of a Hemingway.  With just a few descriptive scenes of Queeg, the reader can already understand him and pity him recognizing that he is not a traditional villain but a flawed and sad neurotic.  From the rolling of the balls to the &quot;sinking of his head into his shoulders&quot; to his way of saying &quot;kay&quot; instead of okay, Queeg's flaws are laid out.  When he manipulates reality to justify his actions, one can feel sorry for him rather than hate him.  He ultimately comes across as a sad and tragic figure. As for the others, Willie Keith is the protagonist and no character undergoes greater growth than him.  This is really what the novel is about, Willie's coming of age and it is a great coming of age story.  Rather than have his protagonist mature against the crucible of great battle (as he later does with a number of characters in War and Remembrance which is much more of an epic but not as great a novel), he chooses to portray the day to day existence of a backwater minesweeper which is just on the periphery of the war.  And by doing so he avoids all the standard cliches which is also what makes this novel great.  In the end, the book clearly has no villains except circumstance.  Even Keefer, the pseudo-intellectual who really causes all the trouble, is way to self-aware of his own flaws to be villainous (he is mentally healthy by contrast with Queeg who cannot face up to a single flaw or mistake in himself)  I could go on and on but this book is an American classic that doesn't seem one bit dated despite its 1951 publication date.  I recommend it to anyone who likes literature.	2000-09-21
US	52552835	R1XI0CPI7WYWN1	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	4	25	33	N	N	Fascinating Read but not objective History	Paul Johnson is a true iconoclast as well as an excellent historian.  His conservative perspective becomes obvious as we get into the twentieth  century.  Nevertheless, unlike many writers of the left, he makes no  attempt to pass his conclusions off as neutral unbiased historical  assesment.  I felt the book was strongest in discussing the colonial,  revolutionary and civil war periods.  Johnson's lively style brings long  dead people to life.  I appreciate his anti-revisionism in which he  acknowledges wrongs that were committed but refuses to apologize for the  natural consequences of progressive western civilization which has driven  human history for thousands of years.  As he gets into the twentieth  century his biases become more clear, even extreme.  His description of  FDR, a president almost uniformly regarded as a great president, as a  patent fraud who contributed little to  positive to American History is  ridiculous and unsupportable.  His discussion of the New Deal as failing to  solve the Great Depression is accurate.  He fails to acknowledge the role  of ROosevelt in boosting American moral in some of its darkest times as  well as some vital and lasting reforms to the banking and securities  industries that have prevented similar catastrophes.  His description of  Kennedy as essentially a complete gangster controlled by his father is also  popular today among those of the right and is also an extreme exageration.   In short, Johnson weakens his case against these more recent figures (or in  favor of Nixon) by resorting to extremism.  ALl in all though, this book  will be enjoyed by all history fans who are not left wing ideologues.  If  you are a left wing ideologue do not waste your time, you will hate it.  I  myself am a political moderate who disagrees with a lot of Johnson's  assesments but not with his overall themes.	2000-09-01
US	52552835	R3IVZUULITOIME	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Tapestry Which Captures the Musical Rythm of an Era	Ragtime is a music which appears to be tightly controlled but under the surface is wild and improvisational.  So does Doctorow portray the period of Ragtime in American History, after the turn of the Century and before  WWI as a time where  a man such as Father could believe his life to be  under his control while all around him events spin out of control.   Doctorow's novel deftly weaves fiction and fact in an ironic deftly  stacatto tone which is itself reminiscent of ragtime music.  His stylistic  convention of failing to give names to the main fictional characters,  simply referring to them as Mother, Father, Little Boy, Younger Brother  etc. is simply another effective way of showing the way in which the larger  social and political events of this century overwhelm these people.  What  makes the novel particularly great is its lack of a political judgment.   Doctorow is clearly making a biting comment on the injustices of the day,  but unlike the protest novel's of that era such as &quot;The Jungle&quot;   Ragtime is evenly balanced and really has nothing better to say for  socialism, anarchism or anything else.  In fact, in keeping with the modern  era in which it was written, Ragtime takes a fatalistic approach.  Events  simply seem beyond the control of the main characters.  I recommend this  book to anyone who likes novels.	1999-09-03
US	52552835	R33PXTKH8MEEWR	0553241605	794174842	Mila 18	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A searing account of monstosity and heroism	Like Exodus, Uris uses flashback and a series of historically based but fictional characters to tell an excting story, in this case the story of the Warsaw Ghetto.  I recommend this book to anyone who wishes to truly  understand the Holocaust.  I have studied the Shoah all my life and have  never felt the reality so clearly as in this book.  Unlike Schindler's  list, there are few happy endings.  But this is what happened.  A must  read!	1999-06-18
US	52552835	R28SJ8RI2MW837	1889392006	739617505	Baby Bargains: Secrets to Saving 20 Percent to 50 Percent on Baby Furniture, Equipment, Clothes, Toys, Maternity Wear, and Much... (Baby Bargains: ... on Baby Furniture, Equipment, Clothes, Toys,)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	This is an excellent book that I would highly recommend.	I was told about this book through some acquaintances.  It was exactly what I was looking for, a book that rated products based on the author's experiences, and gave honest but well-researched information.  Not only have I learned a lot from it, I have taken the authors' advice and received a response from them via email about questions I had that weren't answered in the book.	1998-07-27
US	52552835	R1ER8YPOO28O3V	0316852570	390029779	The Hope: A Novel	Books	4	21	22	N	N	An exciting workmanlike view of Israel's first 20 years	Although not in the league of &quot;Exodus&quot; The Hope is an exciting view of the birth and early years of Israel through the eyes of four military men.  The book lacks the epic scope of Uris's masterpiece but does a nice job of weaving fictional characters with real life characters and incidents.  Unlike Exodus, however, the Hope manages to show the day to day lives of these Israelis and toshow them as people not larger than life giants.  The Hope also shows a little bit of how backroom Israeli politics worked as figures like Ben-Gurion, Dayan, Rabin and Meir play prominent roles.  Well worth reading.	1998-05-18
