US	52562189	R32QC0QE07NJTB	B0006DD4XG	713155335	Beggar on Horseback, a Play in Two Parts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Head in the Clouds	George S. Kaufman & Marc Connelly teamed up to write this play that was first presented in New York in 1924.  It is an adaptation of a 1911 German play by Paul Apel whose translated title is \\"Johnny Sunstormer's Trip to Hell.\\"  Kaufman & Connelly thoroughly Americanized the piece.  It is an example of expressionism, where the character's inner life is reflected in decidedly non-realistic stage terms.<br /><br />Neil McRae is a struggling composer who has caught the eye of Cynthia Mason who lives across the hall.  She helps tether Neil's feet to the ground regarding appointments and the necessity to complete work.  Neil's head is in the clouds, dreaming of the symphony he seems to not find time to write.  A buddy of Neil's from his hometown of Livingston, Dr. Albert Rice, drops in for a visit.  This happens just as a family from their hometown also drops in for a visit.  Mr. & Mrs. Cady come with their son Homer and their daughter Gladys.  Mr. Cady is a wealthy but grumpy entrepreneur.  Homer is also a businessman who seems tied to the phone making business calls while Gladys is a debutante socialite concerned with the color of her dresses.  Gladys for some unknown reason has a crush on Neil and pursues him.  His buddy Albert who sees Neil wasting his time giving lessons rather than writing encourages him to marry Gladys as a way to help him out of his money woes.  Although Neil has an eye for Cynthia across the hall, she also sees how he'd be more able to write his music if he marries into the wealthy family.  After the Cady's leave, Cynthia rejects Neil for his own good, although she deeply cares for him.  This causes Neil to pick up the phone and propose to Gladys who gushes that she can now start telling all her friends and planning engagement parties.  Dr. Albert, seeing that Neil is near exhaustion, orders him to bed.  Neil falls asleep thus starting the main part of the play, which is an extended expressionistic dream sequence.<br /><br />In the dream, locations fade from one to another where Mr. Cady makes Neil join the family business.  Everytime Neil wants to work on writing music, there is always another party to which Gladys drags him.  Frustrated and increasingly unhappy, Neil is finally put in an art manufacturing company where songwriters turn out nice jazz tunes that will sell a million and a half.  Ideas come from the inspiration department and are forwarded to the composer who dashes off the tune.  Writers turn out books that copy much of the plot from their previous book to meet publishing deadlines that results in books being distributed 45 minutes after they are written.  Neil's agony increases to the point where he picks up a paper knife and kills Mr. & Mrs. Cady, his wife Gladys and his brother-in-law Homer.  This starts an epic trial where tickets for jurors are sold like movie theatre tickets and the jurors are dancing instructors who dance with Gladys.  The judge is none other than the dead Mr. Cady and the deceased Mrs. Cady comes back as a witness.  Albert becomes the prosecuting attorney and objections are made to Neil's looks.  The jury does not care for Neil's looks and convicts him.  This ends the dream.<br /><br />Gladys shows up to inquire if they could postpone their engagement because she's run into one of her old boyfriends who wants to show her the city; and of course, he wouldn't be comfortable doing so if she's engaged.  Neil and Gladys decide they are not meant for each other which allows Neil to set his sights back on Cynthia who has now returned and is willing to settle for a life that is less successful but is filled with love.<br /><br />It is an interesting play, one that would require a legion of stagehands and set designers to produce effectively.  It is an indictment of business vs. art, something with which both Kaufman & Connelly seem extremely knowledgeable.  I couldn't quite figure out what the title had to do with the play, but I did appreciate reading this great example ofAmerican expressionism.  Enjoy!xample of American expressionism.  Enjoy! <br /> <br />	2005-10-14
US	52562189	R303SY179P0E8V	B0006DGKHI	468735692	Processional - a Jazz Symphony of American Life in Four Acts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Passionate Political Landscape	John Howard Lawson was a political playwright and screenwriter.  He was the first president of the Screen Writers Guild and had a string of plays on Broadway in the 1920's.  He joined the American Communist Party, was later blacklisted and moved to Mexico.<br /><br />His play \\"Processional\\" was written in 1925 and produced by the Theatre Guild.  It combines music and a sense of vaudeville into the political intrigue of a coal miner's strike in West Virginia.<br /><br />The play centers around two main characters.  Sadie Cohen is the daughter of a Jewish shopkeeper Isaac.  Isaac is a single parent who tries to keep a tight reign on his young daughter whose hormones & adolescence are making her rebel against her father.  Dynamite Jim Flimmins is the other character who has been jailed and busts out of jail.  There is a group of miners who are talking about striking because of mistreatment by management represented by a character called \\"The Man in the Silk Hat.\\"  They play various instruments and march while playing jazz improvisations on an ever-changing variety of instruments.  One of the leaders is a Polish guy named Jake Psinski who happens to be nearby when Jim Flimmins breaks out of jail.  Along with a superstitious black man named Rastus, they carry Jim's hidden body in a coffin up a hill to a large building called the Labor Temple with two statues, one representing \\"Capital\\" and the other \\"Labor\\" under a sign \\"American Manhood.\\"<br /><br />A young soldier sent to capture the convict named Bill discovers Jim.  In the struggle, Jim skewers Bill with a bayonet blade; and now will be executed for sure.  Sadie is standing nearby.  Thinking he has nothing to lose, Jim drags Sadie into a mine, rapes and impregnates her.  Jim and Jake escape to an old barn where Jim's mother Euphemia Flimmins lives.  She hides them in a cellar just as the sheriff arrives.  Jake is captured and taken to jail, but Jim escapes and goes on a rampage killing soldiers who have been sent in to quash the miner's strike.<br /><br />Act Four moves forward six months.  The soldiers have gone and been replaced by the Ku Klux Klan who arrive to restore morality.  Pregnant Sadie is about to be tarred and feathered for loose morality and for being Jewish when we find that both her father Cohen and black Rastus are hiding underneath Klansmen sheets, the father to save his daughter and Rastus because he figured the safest place to hide was underneath a sheet.  Jim enters.  We learn that he was strung up by Klansmen and blinded, but later released by the judge in Charleston for lack of evidence, the judge figuring what's a blind man going to do to bother people anyway.  Jim learns that Sadie is pregnant.  The most un-romantic of wedding proposals is conducted for convenience.  Now that Jim will marry Sadie, the Klan figures she's morally okay as a married woman and stop threatening the girl.  The head of the Klan is also the head of business represented by the Man in the Silk Hat.  The play ends with the jazz wedding and the miners settling the strike because management doesn't want any more bad publicity.  It's bad for business.<br /><br />\\"Processional\\" is a highly charged political piece.  Some of it is extremely dated today.  One character, Pop Pratt, is described as \\"your typical Civil War veteran,\\" a phrase that doesn't resonate 80 years after the show's first production.  Lawson substitutes political struggle and jazz for character development.  Thematically and stylistically, the play seems more related to Brecht's \\"Mother Courage & Her Children\\" where we observe the characters haggling over war, but don't identify with them.  In \\"Processional,\\" there really is no one to root for, a good guy vs. a bad guy.  When Jim, the protagonist, is a murderer and rapist, it's hard to really stand up and cheer.  Even his mother resorts to prostitution to try to raise money for her son's escape.  It is a passionate political landscape depicted.  Although the action isfast-paced and riveting, to me this play seems more comfortable confined on the page than the stage today.ugh the action is fast-paced and riveting, to me this play seems more comfortable confined on the page than the stage today. <br />	2005-10-12
US	52562189	RE1UKK4YWO99X	0486292681	413452785	The Emperor Jones (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	From Croatia to Korea	Eugene O'Neill's classic play was originally produced on Broadway in 1920 with Charles S. Gilpin in the lead.  It reappeared for 3 more Broadway productions.  Although O'Neill himself did not embrace the label, \\"The Emperor Jones\\" seems a quintessential expressionist piece as the little formless fears, Jeff the gambler, the convicts and the auctioneer all seem to be projected from Jones' deteriorating inner emotions.  The opening scene between Jones and Smithers, the Cockney trader, is powerful with the brutal dialogue & interplay between characters.  The next 6 scenes all reflect Jones' inner state with the tremendous mechanism of the increasingly intense tom-tom drums driving him to the breaking point and his increasingly tattered clothing reflecting how he is being worn down.  Demonstrating the expressionist technique, frequently at the conclusion of these scenes the forest seems to draw around Jones after he shoots his revolver at his illusion.  Scenic designer Cleon Throckmorton broke new ground by using a plaster skydome in place of the traditional canvas cyclorama to enhance the outdoor visual effects, which would be a challenge to produce.  The play climaxes offstage in Scene 8 as Jones is cornered and executed.  The play shows us an island on the edge of civilization where local dictators can use muscle to loot the public treasury for personal gain as they create and evade their own laws.  The sad universality of the piece is that 85 years after its first production, whether you call them Taliban, Castro or Saddam Hussein, we can still see places in the world where similar dramas of dictatorship are played with various ethnicities and geography.  The savagery of O'Neill's Emperor Jones may seem different; but from Croatia to Korea, it still exists in many places.  This is a play that still resonates thematically and dramatically.  Enjoy!	2005-10-10
US	52562189	R3IESHO4I9855Z	B00086C2O8	569132869	The New York idea: A comedy in four acts	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Divorce American Style	Langdon Mitchell's \\"The New York Idea\\" was written in 1906 and copyrighted in 1907.  It has been produced 3 times on Broadway.  The 1906 production starred Mrs. Fiske and Arliss Howard and ran for 60 performances.  Other revivals followed in 1915 and 1933.  As we approach the century mark on this comedy of manners, it's an interesting look back to see what's changed and what still plays.<br /><br />The premise is still most interesting.  It follows the adventures of two divorced couples.  Phillip Phillimore, a prominent New York judge, has divorced Vida whose unconventional flare for see-through gowns & forays in Egypt make her Bohemian.  Wealthy heiress Cynthia Karslake married lawyer and horse enthusiast John Karslake for love and divorced him quickly, dropping him like a hot potato.  Cynthia is preparing to marry Phillip Phillimore, a sensible match for her after the flaming passion of the previous marriage burned out.  Both Vida Phillimore & Jack Karslake are unattached.  Business each has before the judge brings them to his residence on the eve of his wedding.  Therefore you have the engaged and both ex's trading banter and quips in the drawing room.<br /><br />Complications arise when single Englishman Sir Wilfrid Cates-Darby enters.  His suave and easy way plays with the American women he's come to admire.  He develops an attraction to both Cynthia Karslake and Vida Phillimore.  Cynthia becomes quite jealous as Vida flirts with her ex, fanning a spark that has not entirely gone out.  On the day of the wedding, Cynthia allows herself to be taken to the track by Sir Wilfrid, delaying her 3 p.m. wedding to 9 p.m.  This goes over like a lead balloon to a cadre of outraged Phillimore relatives including sister Grace, aunt Miss Heneage, & cousin William Sudley.  Phillip's brother Matthew is a clergyman who has preached liberally on divorce and intends to perform the wedding ceremony.<br /><br />Finally in Act III all draw together for the wedding, only for Cynthia to realize that her jealousy about her ex is stronger than her desire to marry the judge.  The play climaxes in the final act as Jack Karslake's investigation into Cynthia's quickie divorce reveals legal flaws that result in the fact that they're still married.  Vida hooks up with Sir Wilfrid and marries quickly at the Karslake residence.  Cynthia shows up with Jack thinking she's married Phillimore and Cynthia thinking that Jack's married Vida.  Misunderstandings are resolved as Cynthia realizes that Karslake kept the room exactly as she left it on the day she walked out on him.  Their passion flares as Jack replaces his wedding ring on the willing Cynthia's finger.<br /><br />What's changed?  In 1906, divorce was doubtless regarded as more of a scandal than our present-day culture.  So the hubbub that surrounds two divorced couples seems quaint.  However, the raw emotions that ex's can hold for each other still plays well.  The numerous servants in the various households seem quaint as does the fact that Phillimore's house doesn't have electricity, but Karslake's does.  The language of the play is quite elevated with numerous words in the judge's dialogue being not in most people's normal vocabulary.  The action of the play still flows well and could work with strong leads.  Overall, it's an interesting comedy almost 100 years later.  Enjoy!for Cynthia to realize that her jealousy about her ex is stronger than her desire to marry the judge.  The play climaxes in the final act as Jack Karslake's investigation into Cynthia's quickie divorce reveals legal flaws that result in the fact that they're still married.  Vida hooks up with Sir Wilfrid and marries quickly at the Karslake residence.  Cynthia shows up with Jack thinking she's married Phillimore and Cynthia thinking that Jack's married Vida.  Misunderstandings are resolved as Cynthia realizes that Karslake kept the room exactly as she left it on the day she walked out on him.  Their passion flares as Jack replaces his wedding ring on the willing Cynthia's finger.   <br /> <br />What's changed?  In 1906, divorce was doubtless regarded as more of a scandal than our present-day culture.  So the hubbub that surrounds two divorced couples seems quaint.  However, the raw emotions that ex's can hold for each other still plays well.  The numerous servants in the various households seem quaint as does the fact that Phillimore's house doesn't have electricity, but Karslake's does.  The language of the play is quite elevated with numerous words in the judge's dialogue being not in most people's normal vocabulary.  The action of the play still flows well and could work with strong leads.  Overall, it's an interesting comedy almost 100 years later.  Enjoy!	2005-10-09
US	52562189	R13J2380TQ1S6R	0452260094	758792068	Joe Turner's Come and Gone	Books	4	5	6	N	N	105	\\"Joe Turner's Come & Gone\\" is the first play of Wilson's that I've read.  I finished the play the week before his death.  As a Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright, many have obviously already recognized the quality of Wilson's work.  \\"Joe Turner's Come & Gone\\" won the Tony Award for Best Play in 1988 with L. Scott Campbell winning the Tony as Best Featured Actress in a Play for her portrayal of Bertha Holly.  Set in a Pittsburgh boardinghouse in 1911, the play is part of Wilson's cycle of plays.  Seth Holly is a no-nonsense man who does not allow any shenanigans.  His wife Bertha cooks and tries to soften Seth's hard edges.  Seth makes dustpans and coffeepots out of metal for travelling salesman Rutherford Selig, who is the lone Caucasian in the show.  The show is populated by a series of characters including Jeremy Farlow who is a young guitar player who longs for a girl.  Molly Cunningham and Mattie Campbell fill the bill.  Herald Loomis is an ex-convict who was incarcerated because of Joe Turner.  He got out of prison and found his daughter Zonia.  (I think I remember the character was named after Wilson's mother.)  Herald, as his name might imply, has a spiritual mission to locate his wife.  Loomis employs the peddler Selig who makes extra money by finding people whose names he records as he makes his rounds selling his wares.  Angela Bassett played Martha Pentecost who has changed her name from Martha Loomis and is eventually reunited with Zonia.  Bynum Walker is also a mystical character who has stories of the shiny man.  The play's action flows together organically with great tension and humor.  The otherworldly mystical elements imply both spirituality and superstition.  The play is an interesting reading experience that makes you wish you'd been able to attend one of the 105 Broadway performances!  Enjoy!	2005-10-06
US	52562189	R154OLB5BSB6QT	B0008CKX98	871945152	Three wise fools;: A comedy in three acts	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Golden Nugget from 1918	Austin Strong is the step-grandson of Robert Louis Stevenson.  He had eleven shows that ran on Broadway, the most well-remembered of which is probably \\"Seventh Heaven,\\" for which Janet Gaynor won an Oscar in the 1927 film version.  \\"Three Wise Fools\\" opened on Broadway at the Criterion Theatre on October 31, 1918 and ran for almost a year.  It's a sweet comedy with three gruff old geezers who are roommates, all prominent men in New York City, a lawyer, a banker and a judge.  They think of themselves as \\"The Three Musketeers,\\" one for all and all for one.  All shared a romance with the same girl in their youth.  However, she chose another.  They receive news that she has died and asks her old noble friends to help take care of her daughter.  Sidney Fairchild is a lovely young woman who wishes to study law.  They take her into their home.  She transforms the stuffy old place into a colorful place filled with flowers and joy.  The banker's nephew Gordon falls in love with the beautiful Sidney.  The complication arises when a criminal named Benny the Duck escapes from an Atlanta prison.  He's spotted in New York and has vowed to kill the judge who put him away.  As Sidney & the 3 wise fools are about to go to the opera, Benny the Duck enters and knocks out the butler.  Sidney finds herself alone with the criminal; and we are surprised to find she's on a first-name basis with Benny.  Sidney has become greatly attached to all three wise fools and blows the police whistle alerting the cops watching the house.  Benny escaped the Atlanta pen with another criminal that we learn is none other than Sidney's father.  To protect her dad, she helps Benny escape through a skylight.  The final act works out with all misunderstandings resolved.  We learn that love is stronger than appearances.  The show is a sweet comedy that tugs on the heartstrings and is well worth revival on the American stage.  Enjoy!	2005-10-02
US	52562189	RQGQVDL6G8IJR	0375719180	211821642	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Comical & Sinister	Brady Udall takes us on a most entertaining exploration in the life of a half-Apache, half-White boy named Edgar Mint.  As a lead character, Edgar's youth leads us to experience the world with an incredible sense of wonder and suspended judgment.  The rather harsh and unkind life he experiences from his head injury and his hospital stay at St. Divine's to the bullies at the Willie Sherman school and then the anxieties of life in Richland with the Mormon family, we see a young man trying to make sense of a world in which he neither feels at home or to which he feels connected.  Many of the events seem fantastic, comical & sinister such as Dr. Barry Pinkley's breaking into the hospital and then his continued pursuit of Edgar and Nelson's crazed hustling at Willie Sherman where they burn a boy's rectum for sport.  With Edgar's finding Rosa Petenko who seems to be the Edgar's spiritual mother, we are finally allowed to feel a sense of relief and hope.  Whether a comedy of menace or the tale of a survivor, Udall masterfully takes us into the strangest of worlds and makes it both seem real and moving.  Enjoy!	2005-09-18
US	52562189	R2AGYX1O92WBX4	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	1	15	16	N	N	Overspent	This is the 2nd Grisham novel I've read.  \\"Runaway Jury\\" kept me glued to the page.  This hardback is one I picked up at a garage sale for $1.  I think I overspent.  The hardest part was that I really didn't like Ray Atlee or his brother.  Things get pretty bad when you start having sympathy for Ray's ex Vicki when she's never even really in the book!  The most interesting character was dead.  I found myself having to drag myself back to the page to read another chapter.  For me, the novel picks up at bit right near the end, after I've thoroughly decided that I don't care whether the main character lives or dies or whether his brother overdoses or is treated fairly.  I did like Claudia, the judge's assistant, which again emphasized how much more interesting the dead character was than the living.  Patton French the high-powered attorney who lives on a yacht was extremely interesting, yet distinctly unlikable.  So whether the airplane is blown up or the drug addict is the better man becomes irrelevant to the wonderful joy I experienced when at last I reached the last page and could say, \\"It is done!\\"  Taxi!	2005-08-19
US	52562189	R3DISU5RZ56FG1	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	People I Was Glad to Have Known	\\"Tara Road\\" is a good reading experience.  Like others, I felt it started off a bit slowly, but I enjoyed hearing about the good times as they were developing between Danny Lynch and Ria.  One of the things I particularly enjoyed was the banter between Ria's two children.  As 9-year-old Brian would regularly say the one thing that shouldn't be said, Annie's responses were so disgusted that I could easily picture this 14-year-old sister.  The weird note for me was Danny Lynch.  I couldn't quite get how he would seem to sincerely care for his family and then make the decisions he did.  Nor did I ever understand his detachment from his parents.  The surrounding characters were at first a bit difficult to keep tabs of, but then each seemed to be enriched and given a real life.  Colm as the restaurant owner and his sister Caroline whose problem I did not suspect until revealed were excellent.  Having the neighborhood restaurant gave a great setting for some of the events.  The night in the restaurant when singer Orla King gets utterly smashed is hilarious and would be great on film.  I was, however, rather startled that no one picked up that she had also had an affair with Danny Lynch.  The triangle characters of Mona, her husband & real estate tycoon Barney & his mistress Polly had an interesting dynamic.  But I wondered why Polly accepted it since she seemed much smarter.  However, I certainly did cheer for Mona at the conclusion.  Binchy weaves great subplot issues into the novel such as the family violence between Gertie & Jack, loss of a child between Marilyn & Greg Vine, and childlessness between Martin & Hillary.  Bernadette seemed like a character in search of a personality, which made it hard for me to see what Danny's attraction was.  Both the mother-in-laws Fiona & Nora were distinct and well drawn.  Rosemary Ryan seemed to be another enigma for me.  She truly seemed to care about Ria as during the time when Danny announced his divorce, but then her extracurricular activities seemed fairly inexplicable.  Last but not least, I also greatly enjoyed Clement the cat with his Garfield-like personality.  Binchy's prose is not overly lyrical, more utilitarian.  But she does manage the plots and subplots well and develops wonderful characters such as Ria.  In the end, they seemed like people I was glad to have known.  Enjoy!cular activities seemed fairly inexplicable.  Last but not least, I also greatly enjoyed Clement the cat with his Garfield-like personality.  Binchy's prose is not overly lyrical, more utilitarian.  But she does manage the plots and subplots well and develops wonderful characters such as Ria.  In the end, they seemed like people I was glad to have known.  Enjoy!	2005-07-13
US	52562189	R3MSVGHNKSTJAO	B00005X0OI	463846704	Trout Fishing in America: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mayonnaise	\\"Trout Fishing In America\\" is a delightfully disjointed (pun intended) book that still challenges our sense of form of the traditional novel. Richard Brautigan is such a distinct author, using semantic simplicity and childlike imagination to look with constant wonder at the world.  \\"Trout Fishing In America\\" was a product of the 1960s.  Reading it over 40 years after it was written offers a perspective of appreciation.  Like some of our best-loved authors like J.M. Barrie or James Thurber, Brautigan fully transports us to a place in his mind filled with creativity and imagination.  My favorite story is 2-pages long, titled \\"Worsewick.\\"  It's about a guy and his girlfriend making love in a hot spring amid algae and dead fish.  Brautigan combines the whimsical and imaginary with the poet's eye, making the everyday seem magical.  To give an idea of the wonderful images he uses to describe unusual situations, his story concludes, \\"My sperm came out into the water, unaccustomed to the light, and instantly it became a misty, stringy kind of thing and swirled out like a falling star, and I saw a dead fish come forward & float into my sperm, bending it in the middle.  His eyes were stiff like iron.\\"  This is an unusual novel such about boys writing \\"Trout Fishing In America\\" on the backs of first graders or the exploits of Nelson Algren.  Brautigan was in top form with this brief little gem, perhaps a bit dated now, but shining like a jewel nevertheless.  Enjoy!  -- Oh yes, and like his book, I've always wanted to end a review with the word \\"mayonnaise.\\"	2005-06-27
US	52562189	RHO3RBQVKFZQZ	0060751525	439989310	Puff: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Bathroom Humor	\\"Puff\\" is an interesting novel, not quite as funny as it intends to be, but certainly worth a few belly laughs.  The frenetic stoned logic of the novel bounces the reader from incident to improbable incident.  John Gullivan sees the world from a teenage point of view, which may be why Flaherty has set the novel in the 70s.  Other than an absence of references to computers or cell phones, there seems to be little other reason.  John & his brother Gully go from one crazy stunt to another with various flashbacks thrown in for good measure.  John is adjusting to the loss of his father and the terminal illness of his mother.  As the novel progresses, he falls in love and grows up a bit.  These changes give the characters a bit of depth, but cut the comedy in the last third of the book.  Ultimately, John & Gully come across mostly as shallow simpletons who would have fared well in a Monty Python sketch.  Sister Dee Dee comes out of the closet as their minister comes out of the cloister.  So while scenes such as the confessional are quite humorously written, I waded through the book & was glad to move on when it was over.  If bathroom humor is still in vogue with you, you may find this quite enjoyable.  Taxi.	2005-06-16
US	52562189	R7MASWITKSZ7N	0425184749	655407987	Next of Kin	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Truly Rich	Like \\"Brother & Sister,\\" the first of Trollope's novels that I read, \\"Next of Kin\\" deals with family situations.  While the novel is set in rural England and details the lives of the Meredith family and the people that swirl into their lives, the themes here are subtle and deep.  Trollope explores how people are satisfied with their lives or seemingly stuck in situations whose familiarity becomes their prison.  The main character is the enigmatic Robin whose wife Caro has died of a tumor.  As the events of the novel slowly unfold, we learn that Robin & Caro had separate bedrooms for much of their married life.  Caro was a restless Californian who never seemed to fit into the Tideswell farm or its community.  Robin wished his wife loved him, but silently stuck with her and ran his farm.  Robin's brother Joe spent time in Colorado and returned to the farm, apparently abandoning his dreams of freedom.  The novel intimates his desire of his sister-in-law was so intense, that we are thrown into the next tragedy dealing with his demise.  Robin's farmhand Gareth seems completely content and happy in his work while his wife Debbie is dissatisfied and desperately urges Gareth to seek another job.  Adopted daughter Judy always resented her father, but introduces her London roommate Zoe into the mix who is a free spirit and seems the personification of satisfaction, never unhappy nor burdened by expectations.  Zoe lives in the moment, delighted what she finds there.  Dilys is the mother of Joe & Robin and has always been in control, but must now adjust to her husband Harry's decline and the necessity for change in their lives.  The character Velma the housekeeper who gets so bent out of shape when Robin starts making love again is a delightful little busybody.  Trollope has 12 major characters in this short novel and manages the traffic of their crisscrossing needs and thoughts fairly well.  \\"Next of Kin\\" is not the most pleasant of novels, but it is a deep and real look at characters dealing with the difficulty of getting what they need and being satisfied with they have.  It reminds me of the old adage of whether the truly rich person is the one who has a great quantity of wealth or the person who is satisfied with what they have.  Enjoy!aracters dealing with the difficulty of getting what they need and being satisfied with they have.  It reminds me of the old adage of whether the truly rich person is the one who has a great quantity of wealth or the person who is satisfied with what they have.  Enjoy!	2005-05-18
US	52562189	R3FWCSFEIULKOX	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	5	55	65	N	N	Essential for Progressive Patriots	As part of the Democratic Action Network here in North Carolina, this book was recommended to us.  Obviously, with John Edwards on the national ticket and not carrying the state, we are trying to focus on how to make change.  Progressives understand how Republican tax cuts favor the rich and pull the rug out from under working people, but in the face of \\"tax relief\\" speech find ourselves desperately needing a new language to describe \\"efficient government\\" that maximizes our \\"tax investment.\\"<br /><br />Progressives are continually startled when people do not vote for what is clearly in their own self-interest.  Lakoff addresses these issues in a focused and understandable manner.  Clearly, people who drive around with \\"W\\" on their gunracks have a perspective to which progressives must learn to speak.  Last week in western North Carolina, a preacher threw out 9 members of the congregation because they had the audacity to vote for John Kerry.  One Democratic congressional candidate was asked how she could be a Christian and a Democrat.  Clearly, we are involved in an ideological war, the dimensions of which progressives have greatly underestimated.<br /><br />I am particularly struck by Lakoff's view about how these two groups view God.  From his perspective, conservatives view a God who is wrathful and requires punishment, a very \\"old testament\\" view.  Progressive Christians view a beneficent God who loves His children.  But while conservative Christians are well organized, progressive Christians are only loosely aligned.  Much work needs to be done because people will vote against their own self-interest if they believe it to be God's will.  The Republican rich have manipulated these issues, ignoring that Jesus' gospel is that we should take care of the sick.<br /><br />Lakoff's argument on idea framing is helpful, but is new thinking for progressives used to thinking issue by issue.  I know I am going to need more than just this little book to really get the hang of this, but it is an interesting starting point.  For those of us puzzled by the direction of our country, befuddled by public unconcern of blatant lies and misrepresentations by the president with the war in Iraq, we need to reshape our thinking.  We need to redefine a \\"Clean Water Act\\" that encourages pollution as a \\"Dirty Rivers Act\\" or find conceptual ways to battle these ideas before Republicans succeed in polluting the planet.  Lakoff's book is a key to this; and is therefore essential reading for progressive patriots.he hang of this, but it is an interesting starting point.  For those of us puzzled by the direction of our country, befuddled by public unconcern of blatant lies and misrepresentations by the president with the war in Iraq, we need to reshape our thinking.  We need to redefine a \\"Clean Water Act\\" that encourages pollution as a \\"Dirty Rivers Act\\" or find conceptual ways to battle these ideas before Republicans succeed in polluting the planet.  Lakoff's book is a key to this; and is therefore essential reading for progressive patriots.	2005-05-12
US	52562189	R32EDTIHRNCUZ5	0688148638	183013948	Almost Adam: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	R-E-S-P-E-C-T	I really enjoyed \\"Almost Adam\\" because I found it to be a tale of friendship.  Ngili is the son of a prominent Kenyan who is friends with Ken Lauder.  Lauder very much appreciates Ngili's scientific expertise.  The bond between these two friends is not influenced by color.  This is contrasted with Hendricks the airplane pilot who is racist and numerous other tensions which ripple through the story.  Ken also has an attraction to Ngili's sister Yinka who slyly refers to Ken as \\"settler,\\" a derogatory term used toward whites who stayed in Kenya.  The sexual sparks between them puts Ngili in an odd situation, not really accepting his sister's relationship with his best friend because of race.  Compound this with the political unrest with Ngili's father Um'tu who is a minister in the government & gets fired because he's from the wrong tribe.  I. V. Haskar is threaded into the story, racially from India, whose racial history guides his injection into the plot.  Then you have Ken's encounter in the wild with Long Toes and the Hominids and their battle with the racial group, the Robusts.  So I found \\"Almost Adam\\" fascinating because on many different levels it explores issues of racial differences and racial tolerance.  Aretha Franklin sang that classic song about respect, \\"R-E-S-P-E-C-T, find out what it means to me.\\"  That kept playing in my head somehow as I went through this story.  So many will enjoy this novel for its science, some for its unrelenting action and breathtaking jumps in plot.  I found it an allegory on racial tolerance.  Enjoy!	2005-05-02
US	52562189	R38238A2VETHBE	0671209612	110126691	Revenge of the Lawn: Stories 1962-1970	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Hemingway Antidote	Richard Brautigan is one of the most original voices in American fiction that we have had.  Easily dismissed as lightweight by those who think tediously long sentences betoken great intellectual acumen, he is the antidote to Hemingway.  In fact, one story is titled \\"Ernest Hemingway's Typist.\\"  Often whimsical, his wry wit cuts sharply.  His images are intensely original & creative as demonstrated by this brief quote from \\"A Short History of Religion in California,\\" \\"...so I hugged my arms around a tree and my cheek sailed to the sweet bark & floated there for a few gentle moments in the calm.\\"  This collection of short stories from 1962-1970 is a mix of the unusual, the humorous, the profound & the nutty.  One of my favorites is what must be the shortest short story I've ever read, \\"The Scarlatti Tilt.\\"  Like a prose poem, in two quick sentences he paints an entire relationship.  \\"The Betrayed Kingdom\\" is another jewel about a woman who invites guys home & then makes them sleep on the floor.  The story has great momentum until Brautigan gets serious in the last paragraph and pulls the plug.  \\"Halloween In Denver\\" is another hilarious nugget about a couple who prepares for trick-or-treaters and waits all night for some to show up; then as soon as they go to bed comes the knock at the door.  I'm not sure what the point of \\"A Short Story About Contemporary Life In California\\" is, but it builds to a tremendous climax and is a great demonstration of control of rhythm.  The title story about the still & the ducks had me in stitches.<br /><br />(Reviewer's note: I was reading this book last week when my father passed away.  I wondered if I'd remember that this was the book that I was reading when Dad took leave of this world.  Then I got to the last line of the book, \\"Your father passed away this afternoon.\\"  So I think I may have some added psychic connection to \\"Revenge of the Lawn.\\"  If my daughter reads it, I'll want her to do it very quickly!)<br /><br />Brautigan's style is so sweet that you just want to pull his books off the shelf every so often and re-read them.  They stay with you like an old friend.  This is a worthy part of this master author's work!  Enjoy!tigan's style is so sweet that you just want to pull his books off the shelf every so often and re-read them.  They stay with you like an old friend.  This is a worthy part of this master author's work!  Enjoy!	2005-03-23
US	52562189	R2UEC9FZY1DNIV	044023803X	460925244	Hawksong: The Kiesha'ra: Volume One (Kiesha'ra (Paperback))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wartime Sci-Fi Romance	What I most enjoyed about \\"Hawksong\\" was its anti-war message.  You only have to turn on the news to see the effects of war in Iraq to understand that although this novel is set in a fantasy kingdom, the effects of a devastating war seem very real.  I found this to be a real page burner.  The characters may seem a bit thin, but the interplay here is excellent.  Danica Shardae makes me envision Natalie Portman from \\"Star Wars\\" with her beauty and reserve.  Zane Cobriana seems a bit too good to be true, but after having lost so many family members in battle, understands the need for peace.  His relationship with Danica is so often interrupted that by the end we are rooting for the two to get together.  So true love amid a backdrop of war is another real draw in this novel.  I found the fantasy kingdom magical with hawk-people that fly and snake-people that dance.  The poisoned arrow weapons gave a sense that we were viewing this in the past, some quaint medieval setting.  The opening event with Danica comforting a dying and wounded enemy, Gregory Cobriana, is touching.  \\"Hawksong\\" also made me reflect on how hard trust is to regain once lost.  The two that love abandons, Adelina of the serpiente people and Rei of the avians both seemed well drawn.  We could sympathize as they let go of the ones they love, albeit in quite different ways.  Atwater-Rhodes does a great job of blending these three genres (war, romance, sci-fi).  Enjoy!	2005-03-10
US	52562189	R3IXGX3L4XO0ZY	0060562420	168470484	A Time of Angels: A Novel	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Fuzzy	Patricia Schonstein's novel is certainly interesting.  It blends a bit of reality with appearances of the Madonna & Lucifer.  The story was a bit confusing to me since there were so many characters from the past whose stories zigzagged back & forth with the present.  The main love triangle is Beatrice who marries Primo when rejected by her lover Pasquale, only to have Pasquale 20 years later decide he wants her back.  And she goes.  The sequences in the Nazi era of WWII are compelling.  From his father, Pasquale learns how to cook salami & fruited bread and becomes a great chef in Cape Town, only to have Primo place a spell on him that turns his salami blue & bitter.  Trying to reverse the spell, Primo accidentally summons the devil, who is really a good angel taking care of God's dirty work.  (Who knew!?!)  Then Primo falls in love with the devil & takes him to a costume ball.  The cosmic conclusion leads Primo back to where he began.  Schonstein deals with some very interesting themes.  However, with a rather short novel that ping-pongs back & forth between present & past, between the worldly & the supernatural, in the end it's a bit fuzzy as a reading experience.  The Afrikaans references & glossary at the back help this to be an interesting international reading experience.  Enjoy!	2005-02-16
US	52562189	RXK2DJHBSCM62	0743257480	602349387	Hidden: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I Found Out	Paul Jaskunas has a great use of language.  His descriptions of Maggie's confused mind are illuminating and deftly crafted.  In one passage, he describes Hodge, the inmate who has confessed to the assault, \\"His legs are like dogwoods, spindly and delicate, his body impossibly thin.\\" (p.220)  Maggie's romance with Nate seems like a storybook romance.  She falls for this confident redheaded college man and marries young.  Then her world starts to unwind as Nate treats her more like a possession rather than a person.  It's a great psychological portrait.  Unfortunately, the flipping back and forth from the present to flashbacks slows the novel's pace rather than builds the suspense.  In the end, what seemed like it was a race with destiny becomes only a race to Maggie's next headache.  By the time we come to the end, I'm glad she's moving to Indianapolis and wondering -- like her mother & therapist, Rita -- what took so long.  The neighbor character of Manny is sweetly drawn, but on the whole a promising book doesn't tell enough of a story.  What Jaskunas does, he does well.  Enjoy that!	2005-02-08
US	52562189	R2043KQY5QZCD3	0297829262	321555212	The Miniaturist	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Art 101	Kunal Basu's tale is an interesting episodic journey that follows the life of an artist Bihzad from his young days as a boy who loves to draw to his time as an old man.  The book is an adventure that takes us through 16th century India to the Mogul Empire.  Many of the terms in the book require a bit of getting used to such as the boy's father who is head artist is called the \\"Khwaja.\\"  The \\"Darogha\\" is the head of the artists' workshop called the \\"kitabkhana.\\"  Once the unusual nature of the terms become more familiar, we relax into what is a very interesting tale.  It makes sense that in an era before the wide use of  printing presses and photography that rulers needed legions of artists to produce their images to be presented throughout their empire.  I felt like I was learning a bit about the history of art & the status of the artist.  Bihzad is a master who falls a bit too much in love with his Emperor and therefore paints the wrong pictures resulting in banishment and a rather endless sojourn in the desert.  Many of the characters that flit into the story are sweetly drawn such as the birdwomen and the postal carrier.  The scenes in the harem are drawn with an objective eye, almost clinical in detail.  Overall, this is a very different tale set in a different culture & time, written by an Indian author.  Enjoy!	2005-01-30
US	52562189	RSF088WD5UKQ9	0060545569	423805836	Sharing Sean: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wildly Romantic	\\"Sharing Sean\\" may not be a groundbreaking book, but it was an utter delight for me from cover to cover.  Actress and comedy writer Lily James has divested herself of a philandering husband and now has a hit TV sitcom on the BBC.  She doesn't have any desire for a relationship with a man because she's too busy, but she does miss the sex.  The problem is that most men with whom she connects fall in love or want to have a \\"relationship\\" rather than a good two or three times a week romp in the sheets.  So she finds Sean who is a hunk, but then has to dump the guy when he wants them to move in together.  Lily has three wonderful friends who have been close girlfriends since they were roommates 20 years ago.  Mara lost her husband Jake who she now regards as a saint.  Meanwhile her house is falling down around her with holes in the roof and no heat because she can't afford repairs.  Her former in-laws are trying to take her kids Moo & Tilly; and Mara doesn't know what to do.  Jules comes from the upper crust, but decided she wanted her own business rather than the typical marriage and family.  But now she wants a baby!  Terry drives a bus, has a rebellious teenage son Paul, and has never enjoyed relations.  So Lily hatches the idea that they should share Sean.  Sean is a great character.  His kids were kidnapped by his ex, Isobel.  They had lived with him since the divorce and now pines for their return.  He's unaware of the arrangement and meets Lily's friends.<br /><br />Yes, the plot may not be the most original.  But Pye tells the romantic tale well, introducing complications and crises and some wonderfully written verbal spats between girlfriends.  This is a quick read that I found extremely hard to put down.  In short, it's a delight!  Enjoy!	2005-01-11
US	52562189	R9FV7T0HU6X6P	1585675849	974656840	Chasm	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Supernatural Earth Mothers	One doesn't often have their first novel published at age 94.  Dorothea Tanning has published as a poet & a memoir volume as well as being recognized as a painter & sculptor.  As far as I know, this would be her first novel.  \\"Chasm: A Weekend\\" is a kind of modern gothic tale, mostly set in the desert of the Southwest United States.<br /><br />Tanning's prose is as picturesque as we might imagine one known as a painter might write.  Her words paint detailed specific images that for me tended to bog down the unfolding of the story.  The history that began the tale showed a long line of females all named Destina, all with kind of supernatural earth mother senses, many of whom lived short or unhappy lives.  Raoul Meridian has apparently inherited the estate of Windcote from one of said Destinas and built it into a spooky gothic mansion in the middle of nowhere.  He is a bizarre figure, eccentric in dress and scientific interests, who enjoys hedonistic worldly pleasures at the expense of much actual human intimacy.  Meridian enjoys inviting people to his estate for weekend parties where he prefers the attentions of his female guests.  His former wife's orphaned granddaughter is another Destina who lives a bizarre existence in an upper floor of the mansion attended to by Nelly, a strange dimwitted refugee from some institutional care setting.  Destina at age 7 enjoys a special relationship with a mountain lion who brings her trophies of various animal body parts that she keeps closely guarded.  Albert & Nadine are two of the guests who swirl into the party.  Albert Exodus befriends Destina while Nadine fascinates Meridian.<br /><br />The novel takes a while to get going, bringing in party guests that apparently are there for some reason, although one is never quite sure why other than to create a sense of mystery that is never explained.  As the novels builds to its raging violent climax, Tanning is at her best in these action sequences that gnaw and tear.  However, at the end, I didn't really like any of the characters including Destina's great grandmother called the Baroness, nor did I particularly care about the outcome.  There is a certain sense of gothic strangeness that Tanning creates, but as whole, \\"Chasm: A Weekend\\" left me suspended somewhere between boredom, confusion and wondering if there were a point.  Taxi!'t really like any of the characters including Destina's great grandmother called the Baroness, nor did I particularly care about the outcome.  There is a certain sense of gothic strangeness that Tanning creates, but as whole, \\"Chasm: A Weekend\\" left me suspended somewhere between boredom, confusion and wondering if there were a point.  Taxi!	2004-12-06
US	52562189	RYV4MXPGPXY2W	1903517192	302096284	The Class (Dedalus European Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Cost of Insecurity	\\"The Class\\" is a good reading experience.  It's always a bit of a stretch to read a work written over 75 years ago and in another language.  Translator Mike Mitchell does a good job of creating the flow and pacing from the original German as it was originally published in 1927.  Ungar was a popular novelist before World War II, often mentioned at the time with Kafka.  The main character Josef Blau is a secondary schoolteacher at a boys' school.  Apparently not all that comfortable as a teacher, he spends a good portion of his time in mental agony over his ability to maintain control of his students.  His insecurity also extends to his beautiful wife Selma whom he suspects as having an affair with a blond schoolteacher Herr Leopold who exercises \\"naked\\" (i.e. no shirt) with his students.  Blau & his wife have a young son born in the midst of the tale, which only heightens Blau's insecurity.  When word arrives that one of his students has bought a note which would make the poor teacher indebted to the rich student, Blau's insecurities mushroom resulting in the unfolding of events including his wife shaving her head to show that she is not trying to attract other men.  Ungar gives us the flavor of a time when opportunities were limited and people struggled for the little they had.  He also delves into some heady theological discussions on the existence of God, which actually has a unifying effect as the tale concludes.  I found \\"The Class\\" a somewhat difficult although an ultimately rewarding reading experience.  Ungar's novel does stand the test of time and does speak to us seven decades after it was written.  Enjoy!	2004-12-01
US	52562189	RQ8POQ672BPMH	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good Story	After seeing James Garner & Gena Rowlands in the film version of \\"The Notebook,\\" I eagerly picked up my first Sparks novel to read.  \\"The Guardian\\" was enjoyable, if unremarkable.  There are no weighty themes here that indicate this will still be eagerly read 100 years from now, but it was a good story.<br /><br />My favorite character was Jennifer Romanello, the training police officer.  She was talented, bright and had a knack for her job.  I wondered at the problems an Italian New Yorker transplanted to a small North Carolina town might have.  However, she didn't seem to have any & people here are more tolerant of \\"d*mn Yankees\\" as they call native northerners who now live in the South.  Jennifer didn't appear to have any culture shock, which is common to transplants.  One interesting inside North Carolina joke is when Jennifer calls the sister of Jessica Bonham, the sister's name is \\"Elaine Marshall,\\" whose name also happens to be that of the Secretary of State for North Carolina, a small but inside joke apparently.<br /><br />Singer, the Great Dane, is a wonderful animal character.  Yes, Sparks hints that it could be dead husband Jim come back from the grave to protect her.  But the dog has such a presence that he truly is as important as any other character.  The main character Julie Barenson seemed to be intensely dense.  It made me hard to really root for her as she withheld information from her new love interest, Mike Harris.  At the end, she's being tracked by a serial killer, is on the beach with Mike and a police officer, and one by one she sends them off to telephone.  If you were in an emergency, even people in North Carolina have cell phones.  It came across a bit contrived.  But yes, we're happy that she finds her true love with Mike.<br /><br />I also really enjoyed the character of Andrea, the loose hairdresser with a penchant for the wrong kind of men.  From her wild clothing & make-up style to her dates to the attitude she cops toward Julie, she was interesting.  But again, she seemed more street smart than her reaction to Richard's collection of Julie pictures in the darkroom that leads to her hospitalization.  It made the plot seem manipulated.<br /><br />The supporting characters of Henry, Mike's brother who enjoys teasing him, Emma, Henry's wife and the best friend of most everyone, Mabel, Jim's aunt who hired Julie, and Pete, the egotistical dense police officer were all excellently drawn.<br /><br />This leaves us of course with Robert Bonham, ergo Richard Franklin, who we learn in stages has a history of killing those who bother him.  Sparks did an excellent job of creating a character who would fly off the handle at a moment's notice.  I did, however, constantly wonder how he financed himself.  Bonham seemed to have an endless supply of cash to travel and do whatever he wanted.  This loose end bothered me because the usual line for a detective on the case is to follow the money.<br /><br />\\"The Guardian\\" was a good read.  It becomes a real page burner as we race to the end.  Mike was a great character; and I hope some day he finds his place in the band.  Enjoy!ie, she was interesting.  But again, she seemed more street smart than her reaction to Richard's collection of Julie pictures in the darkroom that leads to her hospitalization.  It made the plot seem manipulated. <br /> <br />The supporting characters of Henry, Mike's brother who enjoys teasing him, Emma, Henry's wife and the best friend of most everyone, Mabel, Jim's aunt who hired Julie, and Pete, the egotistical dense police officer were all excellently drawn. <br /> <br />This leaves us of course with Robert Bonham, ergo Richard Franklin, who we learn in stages has a history of killing those who bother him.  Sparks did an excellent job of creating a character who would fly off the handle at a moment's notice.  I did, however, constantly wonder how he financed himself.  Bonham seemed to have an endless supply of cash to travel and do whatever he wanted.  This loose end bothered me because the usual line for a detective on the case is to follow the money. <br /> <br />\\"The Guardian\\" was a good read.  It becomes a real page burner as we race to the end.  Mike was a great character; and I hope some day he finds his place in the band.  Enjoy!	2004-11-23
US	52562189	RWRF2H65GZW0W	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Joshua ben Joseph sitcom	Christopher Moore's book \\"Lamb\\" is hysterical.  It's sad that traditional Christianity characterizes Jesus as being fairly humorless.  The point that comes out in this book is that if Jesus lived with ordinary guys like these apostles, he probably had to have a pretty healthy sense of humor.  Bartholomew the village idiot is hysterical, preaching to dogs with a steak on his head.  Our narrator Biff comes across as a fairly concrete man whose natural urges drive him as much as his love for his friend.  The scene where Jesus is a stone cutter's apprentice and heads over to Sepphoris to circumcise a Roman statue is priceless.  Moore really brings a great deal of knowledge of Buddhism and Hinduism to the mix as Jesus and Biff travel to Afghanistan & India.  The scenes with the wizard Gaspar are wonderful.  Moore gives us a great sense of place and character with the Chinese girls.  I wonder what Moore might have done with the added background of the missing years provided in The Urantia Book, but what is here is well told.  The novel does not treat the crucifixion disrespectfully, which was a relief as I approached the end of the tale.  All in all, this is a wonderfully funny book for the open-minded.  Enjoy!	2004-10-19
US	52562189	R33BV2UFSBCQSU	0385510500	64151026	Faithful: A Novel	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Tacky Tale Told Tediously	Davitt Siegerson's \\"Faithful\\" would have been better titled \\"Unfaithful\\" since that's the premise.  We are introduced to the main characters of Nick and Trish who are newly married.  The beginning engages as the joys of newlyweds are faithfully portrayed.  Then Trish becomes unfaithful.  The book devolves from there.  The obvious sell here is the lurid sex scenes that pile one on top of the other (...)  However, it comes across as extremely barren.  All of the characters from Nick & Trish to ex-boyfriend Joe and abused sometime girlfriend Johnny are exceedingly trivial.  None of these characters achieves any spiritual level of identification that gives a value level to the tale.  Instead, the characters all have the mentality of bunnies, with my apologies to rabbits.  Ultimately, Siegerson becomes trivial with this tacky tale told tediously.  Taxi!	2004-10-06
US	52562189	R1HJ6CLNQB9IMY	1585674508	617701931	Boomtown	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sierra's Club	I thoroughly enjoyed this account of the dot.com world.  The star of the book for me was the wondrous Sierra who is a former stripper hired into the firm for her obvious attributes.  Endowed with more smarts than her resume might indicate, Sierra identifies the power behind the throne, Farouk Kharrazi, who has too much money and one wife too many.  Sleeping your way to the top may not be the most ethical business practice, but Sierra uses what she knows best and does an end run around the manager Jonathan Scarver and his right hand man Brad Smith.  Ultimately, \\"Boomtown\\" comes down to a question of values.  No amount of money in the world brings peace of mind, although it can bring a nice luxury apartment in New York City.  There is a bit of a high-tech comedy of manners as computer geek Steven Bluestein reads everybody's email and then creates a virus that sends their emails to everyone else.  This spirals out of control as the virus spreads around the world, bringing in the FBI to investigate the origins of the hoax.  Greg Williams does a wonderful job of painting this world and making us care about it.  I kept picturing Marge Helgenberger from CSI playing Sierra in the movie version.  Enjoy!	2004-10-05
US	52562189	R1D1LCN7FQWRSZ	0316525901	437002087	A Hole in Texas: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Deep Throat	Herman Wouk's &quot;A Hole In Texas&quot; is an engaging quick read that will keep most readers flipping the pages.  The characters are interesting.  Protagonist Dr. Guy Carpenter is a particle physicist who worked on the super collider project in Texas.  The expensive project was funded and then closed before achieving success.  Carpenter's science is almost as interesting as his love life.  He comes across as a rather inexperienced lover, despite 20+ years of marriage to Penny.  His old flame Wen Mei Li has kept a secret correspondence with him over the years.  When forced to reveal this to his wife, it almost ends their marriage as Penny's jealousy momentarily outweighs her devotion.  What seemed a little strange to me was how Wouk then throws in a third attraction to Congresswoman Myra Kadane.  So we have Carpenter going around kissing two women who are not his wife and winds up the novel reconciling with his wife.  This is obviously a guy's idea of a happy ending, perhaps why &quot;Guy&quot; was chosen as the character's first name.<br />The supporting characters are interesting.  Congresswoman Myra Kadane seems a bit overly angelic, but certainly one of the most capable and nicest people who could befriend you.  Wife Penny seems plenty human.  Even the cat Sweeny is well written with his penchant for hide &amp; seek as is the toddler Dinah.  Jules Berkowitz, the lawyer, is perhaps a bit too good to be true, but still distinctive.  Earle Carkins the slimy assistant to Congresswoman Kadayne gets what's coming to him; and we like that!<br />The settings in the book enhance the story from the Carpenter's home to the Waxahachie, Texas to the Millard Filmore Hotel to the Chinese Embassy.  The pacing is fairly good in this continuing drama.  The science issues of subatomic particles called the Higgs Boson are interesting and give a great sense of reality to the story.  We enjoy Carpenter telling the reporter  to go F himself and then suffer with him as he works his way through the consequences of being labeled in the press as the &quot;Deep Throat Physicist.&quot;  It's got the right mix of entertainment and substance.  Enjoy!way through the consequences of being labeled in the press as the &quot;Deep Throat Physicist.&quot;  It's got the right mix of entertainment and substance.  Enjoy!	2004-06-11
US	52562189	R3KY238T21LUW7	1590510860	464538213	One-Way	Books	5	7	7	N	N	At Home in the Universe	Van Caulwelaert's novel reads well in its English translation from the original French.  It is a magical tale with its own sense of reality, one where truthfulness takes a back seat to practicality &amp; imagination.  The irony of circumstances that send the book spiraling out of control are hilarious.  I often found myself laughing aloud, something I rarely do from the written word.  For example, once in Morocco, Aziz tries to impress the hotel that he has papers from King Hussein, only to be corrected by the travel guide that King Hussein is in Jordan while King Hassan is from Morocco.  Aziz's false bravado throughout the tale makes him a fascinating protagonist.<br />The twist of fate that results in the baby being rescued from a burning car in Marseilles, given fake papers by his Gypsy rescuers with an Arabic name that proclaims him a citizen of Morocco, and then to be apprehended by the French government at his engagement party at age 19 to be repatriated to a country to which he has never been, whose language &amp; customs he doesn't know, befriended by the French agent Jean-Pierre Schnieder and bedded by tour guide Valerie in Rabat is an engaging plot that keeps us waiting for the next unexpected development page after page.  The gypsy customs are also hilariously odd as Aziz makes love to his girlfriend Lila by the back door so as to preserve her virginity for her fiancee Rajko.  The episodic foray into the untamed Atlas Mountains is a journey of wonderful stupidity as Aziz bluffs his way further and further into the unknown toward his imaginary home of Irghiz.<br />While a translation, I found the dialogue and description riveting that made the pages zoom.  The dust jacket proclaims that this book won France's highest literary prize.  I found it to be wonderfully endearing and was sorry to let the characters go.  Enjoy!	2004-06-02
US	52562189	R22TW0E3H53HN3	0374209057	446241218	Double Vision: A Novel	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Blind As A Bat	Pat Barker develops some interesting characters in &quot;Double Vision.&quot;  Unfortunately, she does not tell much of a story.  Kate Forbisher is an artist sculpting an image of Christ.  She loses her husband Ben in Afghanistan.  She crashes her car against a tree.  Why did she do this?  Is it a comment on women drivers?  Who knows?<br />Someone peers in the window as she is lapsing into unconsciousness.  We don't know who this was.  We suspect Peter.  We want to know who was peeping at Kate as she was bleeding.  Is it a predator?  Was it a country looky-loo without a phone?  Who knows?<br />Peter is an ex-con who replaced sheep that had hoof and mouth disease and then hires on to help Kate chisel Christ.  We kind of like Peter until we find out that he secretly likes to dress up in Kate's clothes and pretends to chisel Christ during thunderstorms.  Kate doesn't like this either.  We think Peter might commit some ex-con type of nasty act.  Justine gets whacked over the head during a robbery.  Did Peter whack her over the head?  Did Peter get tired of replacing sheep and decide to rob stereos?  Who knows?<br />Stephen Sharkey shows up.  He was Ben's best friend.  He seems to develop a crush on Kate despite her neck brace.  Unfortunately, that has to be put on hold since he puts the moves on his brother Robert's nanny Justine.  Justine is 19.  Is Stephen really attracted to Kate?  Or does he like teenagers?  Does it take Justine's attack to help Stephen revere fidelity?  Who knows?<br />Stephen's nephew Adam has Asperger's disease.  He gets enjoyment from seeing road kill.  Stephen helps him by taking him owl poop that can be washed to reveal the skulls of small animals that the owls ate.  We think Adam is a bit weird.  The kids at Adam's school think he's a bit weird.  Adam thinks he's weird.  Will Adam become a serial killer?  Will Robert stop fooling around with other women and pay attention to his son?  Will Robert stay with his wife Beth for Adam's sake?  Will Stephen help Adam wash the owl poop after Justine gets hit on the head by an unnamed burglar and quits her job?  Who knows?  Who cares?<br />&quot;Double Vision&quot; has such an unfocused and unresolved plot that one might rename the tome &quot;Blind As a Bat.&quot;  Barker writes a lot of nice words.  We enjoy her descriptions of dead women in war zones who are violated after death.  We appreciate Ben's dedication to his work.  We are sorry he gets killed in Afghanistan.  Do we care?  Who knows?<br />Taxi.ill Stephen help Adam wash the owl poop after Justine gets hit on the head by an unnamed burglar and quits her job?  Who knows?  Who cares?<br />&quot;Double Vision&quot; has such an unfocused and unresolved plot that one might rename the tome &quot;Blind As a Bat.&quot;  Barker writes a lot of nice words.  We enjoy her descriptions of dead women in war zones who are violated after death.  We appreciate Ben's dedication to his work.  We are sorry he gets killed in Afghanistan.  Do we care?  Who knows?<br />Taxi.	2004-05-24
US	52562189	R2PLTJQSUMLXUT	1582344000	743203404	Brother and Sister: A Novel (Trollope, Joanna)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	My Real Parents	When my daughter was little and would get angry with my wife or I, she'd often say, &quot;I want my real parents.&quot;  As a person who had adoptive grandparents, I found this subject to be fascinating.  Trollope's book answers the question about just who our real parents are.  If there is a lesson, what I got was that our real parents are the ones who give us love while we're growing up.<br />The issues in the book are riveting.  How our sense of family can be threatened by change and impacts each member of the group shines through.  I found it particularly significant that as David and Nathalie find birth mothers Carole and Cora, the reality of these women is a shock to how they had been imagined.  Equally fascinating is the dynamic within Carole's family as her husband Connor is supportive and son Martin short circuits finding that he is suddenly not the oldest of his mother's sons.<br />The characters are all deep.  However, the story does take unexpected turns that like an unwanted half brother were not entirely welcome.  Nathalie's live-in boyfriend Steve's affair seemed strange to me.  We are introduced to him being a stable and supportive mate who then experiences lethal doses of insecurity.  The same is true for David's wife Marnie whose insecurity over David's connection to his adoptive sister Nathalie causes anxieties and odd behavior.  That the search then results in the ultimate schism of the bond between brother and sister is even less welcome.  Satisfying elements of the story are with the adoptive Lynne and her working through her feelings and the scene with son David where he confirms his bond with his adoptive mother.  I also enjoyed the exploration into Cora's world and the social situation that brought her to give up her baby.<br />Overall, I found this an enjoyable reading experience.  The issues are weighty.  It made me really picture the feelings of adopted children.  I reflected on my own family and how it might be different if adoption results from the death of birth parents rather than social circumstance.  Trollope's pacing and command of language are masterful.  The setting of locations in Great Britain makes us feel as if we'd been there.  Enjoy!sults from the death of birth parents rather than social circumstance.  Trollope's pacing and command of language are masterful.  The setting of locations in Great Britain makes us feel as if we'd been there.  Enjoy!	2004-05-11
US	52562189	R3HK6YXSVPKBJL	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Skull Fractured Kids &amp; Pretty Girl Suicides	&quot;City of Bones&quot; was the first book I've read by this author.  Connelly did create a great page burner.  The chapters are short, the vocabulary is easy as we zip through the tale.<br />For me, the best character was Dr. William Golliher who examines the bones and projects that the victim suffered many fractures and repeated abuse over a long period of time.  He offers the only real character depth as his faith in a Higher Power is challenged by the brutality shown by the evidence.  Unfortunately, his time in the novel is quite brief and not very affecting to detective Harry Bosch.  I found it interesting that Bosch is named after the painter Heironymous Bosch whose fantastic religious imagery offers some of the greatest artistic puzzles.  However, Detective Bosch does not believe in a Higher Power; his motivations are humanitarian.<br />The second most interesting aspect was Bosch's romance with Julia Brasher.  Unfortunately, we never really come to get a grip on what makes her tick.  Did she have an accident or was she a pretty girl with a death wish?  For some fleeting chapters, we think Bosch may find personal happiness, but it's not to be.  His exit at the end after pages of recitation about dedication to the job left me puzzled.  How the novel built to that final act remains undetected.<br />The most interesting incident in the book is when the press-hungry Teresa Corazon gets locked in a port-a-potty.  Now that could have been some great comic relief!  Instead, Bosch seems to start and end in a state of depression.  Many of the supporting characters were quite captivating from Dr. Guyot to all of the dysfunctional Delacroix family.  In the end, &quot;City of Bones&quot; is like a fast meal that tastes good going down, but leaves one hungry for some substance.  Caleb Carr's &quot;The Alienist&quot; was far more gripping for me.  &quot;CoB&quot; is a definite maybe!	2004-05-03
US	52562189	R3HX89YZFC5XXY	0374227306	836307290	Genesis: A Novel (Crace, Jim)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Love, Lust & Lumpy Gravy	Crace's \\"Genesis\\" novel almost works.  It's a great premise.  The book is constructed with 6 children, 6 conceptions; and you know from the beginning that you'll hear about each one.  Some of the characters are entertaining such as the fiery revolutionary feminist Freda who insists on being on top.  Her Cousin Mouetta also shows some personality and spunk.  And Crace authors one of my favorite single sentences I've read in a novel on page 127, \\"She wanted the drama of the streets relocated in between the sheets.\\"  Doesn't that sound like it ought to be a line in a popular song?<br />Thematically, the main character, Lix, seems at a loss about how to father.  That is perhaps the great paradox of the novel, that a man who excels at fertility is so completely lacking in fatherly commitment, love and understanding.  In fact, we encounter just about everything from love, lust and lumpy gravy, except for that most exceptional consequence of romantic love, the family.  Whereas real life family life is one of the most character-building experiences, in Lix we find a man who lives inside his stage personas, much as some men live most fully within their heads.  Thus, \\"Genesis\\" for me was a titillating modern tragedy.<br />That said, the book meanders to a conclusion.  By the time of Lix's 6th conception, we're about as bored with his sex life as he is.  Therefore, I wound up asking myself, \\"Do I really care?\\"  In the end, this was an enjoyable enough reading experience, hardly riveting or one that I could not have lived without.  A definite maybe.	2004-04-26
US	52562189	R3OW1UT062ZKW9	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Follow the Money	Perhaps David Liss has started a new genre, the financial thriller.  In the twists and turns of the tale of Benjamin Weaver, Liss allows the historical backdrop of London in 1719 and the impending scandal of the South Seas Company to dress an amazingly complex train of scandal and duplicity.  Using an historical figure Jonathan Wild as the arch-villain as an 18th century Mafioso profiting from theft, prostitution and even &quot;peaching&quot; his own crooks to the gallows for profit when they've outlived their usefulness, Liss has a great cast of characters.  The behind-the-scenes maneuvering of the Bank of England's Bloathwait vs. the South Seas Company's Adelman serves to keep each new discovery off-balance.  The other remarkable accomplishment is the amazing amount of humor that Liss scatters through the tale with Weaver's observations of various loose characters.  The supporting characters of his buddy Elias who performs surgery when not too drunk, Kate Cole the un-penitant prostitute and Sir Owen gives amazing possibilities for a budding screenwriter.  As Weaver seeks to find the cause for his father's death, we are constantly caught off guard with each new bogus stock or less-than-random act of violence.  Cousin Miriam adds a love interest and issues of feminism to the mix.  Add to this the cultural backdrop of Weaver being a Jew in Christian England, and Liss weaves an incredibly rich and complex tale that keeps our interest as the pages burn from turning.  The climactic scene in the theatre as Weaver unmasks the mysterious phantom of Martin Rochester is breath taking.  Bravo!	2004-04-16
US	52562189	R3TRZAHLERB4QS	0694523054	752429507	Moment of Truth	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Blockbuster Performance	Barbara Rosenblat's reading of Lisa Scottoline's novel &quot;Moment of Truth&quot; in its unabridged cassette version is entrancing.  Rosenblat's voice has a husky timber that sounds like it's been honed by years of smoking Camels and downing vintage scotch.  Her gravelly resonance is perfect for the many wonderful characters from the jerks like chief of police Walston to D.A. Davis to the perky Mary DiNunzio and the open-minded detectives Brinkley and Kovitch.  When Paige comes on the scene, her higher pitched voice perfectly captures an adolescent energy.  Even Trevor Olansky with his flat voice mirrors the rich boy indifference of the character.<br />As the plot unfolds in the multi-cassette volume, we are kept constantly on the edge of the drivers' seat as one false turn finds its way to the next lead.  When we head home to Mary DiNunzio's family, the scene where her Italian mama wields a dangerous wooden spoon at the police is about as endearing as can be.  Rosenblat makes the explosive climax jump to life with a fast-paced delivery.<br />The experience of a novel on tape is a bit different from the reading experience.  Rosenblat is able to handle a wide range of characters giving each like Kovich and Newlin their own distinctive reading.  The universal theme of loyalty and devotion against a background of wealth, duplicity and cynicism brings tears to the eyes by the end.  Bravo!	2004-04-09
US	52562189	ROYFGUUCP1XIF	0060562404	182972198	Ship Sooner: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Incredible Journey	Mary Sullivan's &quot;Ship Sooner&quot; reads like the incredible journey.  Ship is a young adolescent that has been blessed with exceptional hearing.  Her hearing is so acute that she can hear what is whispered within houses and hear the sound of rain falling.  As a result, she is bombarded with information that is often inexplicable.  She regards information in the adult world with a naive innocence.  The supporting characters are well-drawn in Mary Sullivan's amazing prose.  Ship's mother Theresa is a wonderful earth mother who raises two daughters including Ship's extremely attractive older sister Helen.  Trudy who is a friend of the family that battles cardiac problems is also a great character.<br />Subplot complications arise as Ship's best friend Brian hides a family secret.  His attraction for Ship's older sister results in his being sent away to military school.  Helen's indiscretions lead Ship to find a mysterious stranger in the woods.  This is the part of the tale that I found most frustrating.  It is clear to the reader that Ship's newfound stranger needs to be taken to a hospital for medical attention, yet she spends the last third of the book trying to avoid any adult assistance.  In most of the major events of Ship's life, she internalizes the information without communicating to her single mother who is preoccupied with the business of baking pies and helping Trudy in her health struggles.  Because of this, we have a youngster that seems to be emotionally at sea with no anchor of a friend or family member to confide in or rely on.  She wonders about her father who she cannot recall and never finds that leaves an open unresolved feeling to the story's conclusion.  Sullivan's excellent prose lifts the story to reveal the universality and perplexities of youth.  Enjoy!	2004-03-31
US	52562189	R2ZSAU11ZBYA92	0394556178	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Blood &amp; Love	The cassette-recorded version of Anne Rice's novel is read wonderfully by F. Murray Abraham. He won the Oscar for &quot;Amadeus&quot; and has appeared in many films. His voice has excellent resonance and is greatly expressive. He tells this tale compellingly. As Louis the Vampire tells his story to the young journalist, we are drawn into the psyche of his once human existence, his Catholic roots in Louisiana, and his difficulty in leaving his humanity behind. Rice universalizes the vampire horror yarn as an intense psychological profile, giving it a depth of reality. As we learn about Louis' relationship with Lestat, we are fascinated and repelled. As Claudia becomes part of their vampire family, Abraham does a great job of conveying the ice running in the child's veins compared to the sensitivity and caring in Louis. The tale really becomes riveting as it moves to Paris and the Theatre Vampire comes in contact with Louis &amp; Claudia. Sucking blood never sounded like a particularly erotic activity to me; but as Abraham milks Rice's dialogue, it becomes intensely erotic. Claudia's demise and Louis' teaming with Armand makes the climax rush to a fever pitch. I enjoy listening to tape versions of books during driving times. Abraham's version of this Anne Rice tale is excellent. Enjoy!	2004-03-27
US	52562189	R5F7HFV2YE50E	1587886707	12771112	Dance Upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Sizzle	The audiocassette version of Nora Roberts' &quot;Dance Upon the Air&quot; is a delightful experience.  I enjoyed sharing my driving time getting to know Nell and hear her amazing story of escape and rebirth.  Sandra Burr is a voiceover talent who does a great job with the female characters.  Nell has an amazing sensitivity and delightful hopefulness, while being shadowed with haunting fears.  Burr uncovers wonderful shadings in Norah Roberts' prose.  As read by Burr, Mia is also a delightful character, a bit brassy and businesslike, contrasted to Nell's great sensitivity.  Her assistance to Nell by taking a chance on a stranger needing a job demonstrates great kindness.  Of course, Nell just happens to be an exquisite chef, which makes the fit as a cook absolutely perfect.  Burr's Ripley is the least of the three in this recording, but has a real determination and thoughtful side as one of the island's law enforcement duo.  Burr's male characters work less well as Sandra strains to get down into a deep register that flattens out some of the sensitivity and shadings of emotion that should be in Zack Todd's character.  That said, it's still compellingly interesting, but would have worked more effectively to bring in a male voiceover talent to handle the guys.  When Evan shows up, he basically sounds the same as Zack, other than for being a little more mean in his attitude.  Perhaps more of a distinction between a New England accent vs. the California rich boy speech could have helped make a better distinction.  Norah Roberts' story is a real delight as the Three Sisters Island becomes a real place for us.  The description of the cliffs, the forests, the market, the town, the bookstore, Nell's kitchen and the flowers are entrancing.  The audio version is an excellent addition for those of us who try to squeeze in time for one more book!  Enjoy!	2004-03-26
US	52562189	RJUQCF9Z9TOH9	0385087330	651280243	Don't Look Now	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Twists &amp; Turns at each Stop	Daphne du Maurier's &quot;Don't Look Now&quot; is an exceptional collection of short stories.  My favorite is &quot;A Border-Line Case.&quot;  The sense of place of the small island on which Ballyfane Castle in Ireland is located is exquisitely described.  Also, the plot unfolds at a boiler pace and doesn't let down until the final reversal.  Shelagh starts the story with her father's odd death.  Obviously closer to her dad than her mom, she seeks to uncover a bit about his past before beginning her role with the theatre company.  This leads her to seek out Commander Nicolas Barry.  She is taken almost forcefully in the dead of night in a boat over to the island, her belongings are fetched from the Kilmore Arms hotel, and she finds herself a guest of the unusual Commander Nicolas Barry almost against her will.  Add to this the strangeness of seeing her parents' wedding picture in his living room with Barry's head superimposed over where her father's head should be.  From there she tries to figure out what is going on here as this woman-less band of 12 men populate the island.  Thinking they might possibly be homosexuals, she finds herself as they are digging at an excavation on the island.  Finally, the novel speeds to its climax as we suddenly find ourselves square in the middle of Irish Republican Army bombings.  The final reversal at the end caps off an incredible short story.<br />It was &quot;Don't Look Now&quot; that was made into the great 70s film with Donald Sutherland &amp; Julie Christie.  This is also a marvelous tale of intrigue as a couple tries to adjust to the loss of a child.  Add to this the flare of Venice with its canals and travel by boat, two strange sisters with psychic ability who claim the dead child is trying to communicate, and we come up with another tremendously satisfying story.<br />&quot;The Breakthrough&quot; with its emphasis on science and trying to have a computer capture a living essence at the moment of death is rather like H.G. Wells' science fiction.  &quot;Not After Midnight&quot; also has a tremendous sense of place as an English tutor holidays in Greece.  I was a bit confused at the end as to why the story began with him resigning his post, but the story is populated with great characters.  The final story &quot;The Way of the Cross&quot; works somewhat less well with quite a huge cast of characters to shuffle through 70 pages, which kept me trying to figure out who went with whom.<br />All in all, this is an excellent collection of short stories by a great writer.  Enjoy!G. Wells' science fiction.  &quot;Not After Midnight&quot; also has a tremendous sense of place as an English tutor holidays in Greece.  I was a bit confused at the end as to why the story began with him resigning his post, but the story is populated with great characters.  The final story &quot;The Way of the Cross&quot; works somewhat less well with quite a huge cast of characters to shuffle through 70 pages, which kept me trying to figure out who went with whom.  <br />All in all, this is an excellent collection of short stories by a great writer.  Enjoy!	2004-03-26
US	52562189	RROC716H4IM5B	0781225604	197613823	White Sister (Notable American Authors Series - Part I)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Timepiece	F. Marion Crawford's &quot;The White Sister&quot; was originally published in 1909, the year of Crawford's death.  At the turn of the last century, he was a popular novelist, remembered more today for several of his spookier tales.  This story is a bit dated in places.  The author comments on his story, almost like a news correspondent commenting on what it's like to report the news.  Several of his observations are undoubtedly dated, such as his views on the emotional nature of women.  That said, most of the main characters are women.  I particularly laughed at his opinions about the French regarding themselves as a superior culture that no one else in Europe could quite comprehend.<br />This story may strike a modern audience as a bit melodramatic, but it does hold one's attention with good pacing and well-defined characters.  Crawford lived a long time in Italy.  The Italian setting and culture flavors the story throughout.  Angela Chiaromonte is a young woman whose mother died during her childhood and whose wealthy father dies as we begin the tale.  Her fortune is stolen by a domineering aunt who uses legal technicalities and a bit of dishonesty to settle an old family grudge.  This leaves the angelic young woman homeless and penniless, taken under care by her former tutor, the noble and French Madame Bernard.  While with Bernard, Angela informally agrees to be married to a young military officer Giovanni Severi.  By several plot twists, Giovanni is honor bound to take a dangerous military assignment to Africa during which he is believed to be killed.  This forces Angela to a nunnery where she becomes a skilled nurse at the order of the White Sisters.  Giovanni's brother Ugo Severi is wounded at a nearby Italian garrison and taken to the convent hospital for care.  Giovanni escapes his captures and returns to Rome five years later, only to find his true love now a nun and promised to God.<br />This sets up the real issue of the story about one's commitment to God vs. one's more human desires.  Each works hard to honorably uphold their commitments, but Giovanni feels life is not worth living without the girl he loves.  Several other plot twists occur that send us rushing to Crawford's tidy climax.<br />While dated in many ways with the characters being duty and honor bound, I found this a most enjoyable reading experience.  Although from this reader's perspective a century later I could have thought of other alternatives for the characters to pursue, theirs is a sweet romantic tale in which events and circumstance proves able to do what honor may not accomplish.  Read the novel as a timepiece; and I think you will find it very sweet.  The 1917 edition I had has still pictures from a silent movie made from the book.  Enjoy!d vs. one's more human desires.  Each works hard to honorably uphold their commitments, but Giovanni feels life is not worth living without the girl he loves.  Several other plot twists occur that send us rushing to Crawford's tidy climax.<br />While dated in many ways with the characters being duty and honor bound, I found this a most enjoyable reading experience.  Although from this reader's perspective a century later I could have thought of other alternatives for the characters to pursue, theirs is a sweet romantic tale in which events and circumstance proves able to do what honor may not accomplish.  Read the novel as a timepiece; and I think you will find it very sweet.  The 1917 edition I had has still pictures from a silent movie made from the book.  Enjoy!	2004-03-22
US	52562189	R1VV6C9ES3PN11	1569470596	559660634	The Soldier	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Scattered &amp; Confusing	It's easy to understand why Binstock's &quot;The Soldier&quot; is out of print.  It is a scattered and confusing tale whose characters fail to gain sympathy or enthusiasm.  Phillip is a writer whose life is focused entirely on creating his novels.  Unfortunately, the energy Binstock focuses on Phillip's writing process is laboriously detailed and patently uninteresting other than to a budding novelist looking to see the life habits of how other unsuccessful writers work.  Into Phillip's life comes his young cousin Jennie who Phillip immediately wants to bed.  We spend about half the novel dealing with Phillip's anxiety over the propriety of the relationship; but that thread is soon dropped after the deed is done.  Jennie, the only bright spot in the novel, eventually loses our sympathy as she apparently assumes a lesbian attraction for Phillip's old girlfriend.  Add to this a construction where you have Binstock interjecting two story lines of a ghost who wanders the property and a soldier who dies in a war.  The three story lines appear to be intertwined much as a deck of cards is shuffled together in random sequence.  Often, I had to read about three pages to figure out who the characters were.  Then you have flashbacks of characters not in the present story line who are supposed to explain the emotional past of a character we don't care about anyway.  The one thing that I did enjoy in Binstock's tale is the sense of place in the rural New Hampshire locale.  This is a tale to be missed.  Taxi!	2004-03-12
US	52562189	R377LP3R6B6RUJ	0718134575	813247181	Postscripts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	And the Oscar Goes To...	This is the third title by Britain's prolific Claire Rayner that I've read.  It's another quality reading experience.  Abner Wiseman is a filmmaker with several noted documentaries under his belt.  He decides to focus his next film on the children of Jews as a postscript to the Holocaust that will examine how the guilt and pain of the war experience has affected the next generation's lives.  An American, he finds himself in London doing research and seeking financing for his film.  By interviewing survivors, he uncovers a trail of intrigue that leads to several subplots.  The most interesting is a group of women, babies and teens known as the \\"Rats\\" who lived in the sewers of Crackow rather than be captured by the Nazis.  When they are betrayed by one of their own for a sack of apples, they are sent off to their fate in the concentration camps.  This story leads to intrigue in the diamond trade where fleeing Jews tried to convert their cash to a durable wealth that would survive the war and a group of present-day fiscal vultures trying to rake millions of pounds in property that was unclaimed by those who did not survive.  The love interest has a long fuse in this book as Abner meets Miriam, the daughter of a recently deceased historian on the Holocaust.  Rayner fans the flames of this on-again, off-again attraction until it finally ignites.  The pacing of the book sputters a bit, but it's ultimately well worth the time to read it.  The minor characters are well drawn and give voice to a swirl of overpowering emotions.  The unanswered question of course is to whom the Oscar goes!  Enjoy!	2004-03-05
US	52562189	R1SERFYEY4W1CR	0312321074	172788844	I'm a Believer	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Irreverent Gem	Jessica Adams' novel was copyrighted in 2002; and is getting its U.S. release in 2004.  The novel is told through the eyes of Mark Buckle whose irreverent viewpoint makes the telling of the tale hilarious.  The characters shine with gay Australian Felix Saddleton being one of the most unusual.  Mark is a heterosexual; so his visit to the meeting of the Felix's Hair Bears, a gay group for hairy men who enjoy hot tubs, is about as silly as silly gets.  We get a real sense of Mark's live-in girlfriend Catherine, despite the fact that she's part of the dearly departed for the entire novel.  The chapters dealing with the 9-11 tragedy had tears streaming down my face.  Noel D. Jupiter, the new age cab driver, and Scott O'Grady, the flatulent middle-schooler, are great supporting characters.  Adams has a great sense of pacing and rhythm.  The underlying theme of whether there is a God makes thematically universal this unusual entertaining tale.  I haven't had a good time with a book like this since Marc Levy's \\"If Only It Were True.\\"  Bravo!	2004-02-23
US	52562189	R2R0N2HIR0ER0Y	0345451783	638537140	The First Thing Smoking	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Literary Jazz	In Binnie Kirshenbaum's promotional blurb on the hardcover dust jacket, she describes Eubanks' writing as \\"excruciating beauty most often associated with jazz.\\"  I think that this description is apt in that the literature for much of work does whirl like a literary jazz.  However, it also doesn't have much of the traditional short story structure, which also made it a bit \\"excruciating\\" for me as well.  The 210 pages felt like 400+ to get through.  While Maceo's troubles are interesting as the character moves within these stories, the formlessness of them doesn't leave me with much that is memorable.  The last story \\"A Lie In 7 Parts\\" with its Brazilian setting, the lovely Ada, and the sexually-warped German Hans was perhaps the most interesting; although, Maceo is hardly that noble or likeable there.  I did find interesting the character study of being a black guy who at times feels too light to be black, at times too black to be light, too ghetto to be suburban, and too suburban to be ghetto.  The inner conflict was interesting, but the meager outward action rarely took these themes and illuminated them.  The stories seemed to swirl around Maceo who was in the stories and through whose eyes we see the stories, but still never seemed that integral to them.  Nelson Eubanks is certainly creative.  His eternal run-on sentences perhaps reflect a touch of Hemingway in structure.  If you want to read something less than ordinary, this may be it.  But like some jazz, this is hard to pin down like trying to describe the feel of the wind on your face.  This was an interesting work, but not so memorable.  Taxi!	2004-02-13
US	52562189	R26A515A816B1Z	015101020X	133567778	The Fox's Walk	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lightning Bolt Ending	\\"The Fox's Walk\\" is a slow, reflective tale, filled more with observance and description than events.  The events that do occur mostly happen elsewhere and are reported.  Alice Moore is 8 years old and staying at the Ballydavid estate with her maternal grandmother.  Her mother married below her station to a man from New Zealand who treats her brusquely and results in the mother's apparent nervous breakdown.  This effects Alice being left with Grandmother, her Aunt Katie, and her Uncle William, who repeatedly drops by for tea.<br />Not too unlike \\"Alice in Wonderland,\\" this Alice is constantly trying to understand what is going on around her.  The Irish maid Bridie, the teacher Miss Kingley and the stable manager O'Neill have the more Catholic opinion, while playmate Clodagh & family and Alice's family represent the more Protestant viewpoint.  As this is interpreted by Alice, it is a strange mix of stately decorum and revolutionary chaos, seemingly from a distance, but closing in.  All of this is kept in abeyance until the ending arrives like a lightning bolt.<br />The subplots swirl about Alice who grasps as much as she can.  Uncle Sainthill is killed in the war, sending her family into depression.  Uncle Hubert is stationed in the East and may or may not have a fiance, the flirtatious Rosamund Gwynne.  Houseguest Sonia appears to have assumed an identity as a countess and was Mara in London, although Alice is never quite clear.  Added to this are fox hunts, croquet and the sinking of Lusitania.<br />Author Annabel Davis-Goff gives lots of description to the society of manners as it existed in pre-independent Ireland from 1912-1916.  The strength of the novel is its exquisite sense of place, combined with the manners of the social structure as seen through the eyes of a child.  The novel reads as a slow-paced methodical march towards Irish independence.  It is a tale lovingly told, worth the trip!  Enjoy!	2004-02-02
US	52562189	R1IY9PN58TANN5	0399151036	496364896	Empire of Light	Books	3	5	5	N	N	End Justifies the Means	David Czuchlewski's cult novel picks you up and carries you along swiftly with its fast moving plot.  Czuchlewski skillfully weaves the plots in Matt Kelly's life with his girlfriend Anna Damiani and his father's illness. This leads Matt into a soul-searching period that unsettles his stable life as a teacher.  The title of the book obviously indicates the focus centering on the plot with the Imperium Luminis or &quot;Empire of Light.&quot; Yet, it was the subplot of Matt discovering his father as he says goodbye that was the most moving and compelling for me.  The scene at the end with the windows open and curtains blowing mirroring the Irish traditions rooted the novel for me.  The Benefactor of the cult, Giuseppe Conti, wrote a book called &quot;The Pilgrim.&quot;  The snippets of the book we read through Kelly's eyes are actually quite beautiful spiritual sentiments.  I found the setting in Sicily to be moving.  The spy-like part of the book with Anna's stepfather Carl Barrett trying to deprogram the woman and Matt's entrance into the cult made the pages turn quickly, but were ultimately less satisfying for me.  The hypocrisy of lying to someone, as Anna does to Matt, should have been enough to eradicate any trust he felt for her.  So the Orwellian ending didn't ring true for me.  Czuchlewski more manipulates the characters and moves them around like chess pieces than he draws us into the lives of people we come to care about and find unforgettable.  However, the theme of whether the end justifies the means is one that remains important and gives the novel depth.  &quot;Empire of Light&quot; is interesting, if not totally satisfying.  Enjoy.	2004-01-23
US	52562189	R1GOD1C8L6S7BH	0743475941	187873278	The Valley of Light: A Novel (Kay, Terry)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Spiritual Journey	I just read in the marvelous &quot;Rodan of Alexandria&quot; paper in The Urantia Book this quote which reflects so well on Terry Kay's excellent new book &quot;The Valley of Light,&quot; &quot;Life is not real to one who cannot do some one thing well, expertly.&quot;  Noah, the main character, is a veteran who has returned from the horrors of World War II.  His parents are dead.  His brother is in jail.  He was never good at book learning, but God did give him one great talent.  He can fish.  When he puts his hands on the water, he pictures them and attunes himself to their world.  Although it seems magical to those who cannot do the same thing, the fish respond to Noah.  He catches fish where others thought none existed.<br />This is an excellent book.  The characters are as deep as the waters in which Noah fishes.  The journey begins with a guy named Hoke telling Noah about the Valley of Light, the fish and the people there.  Noah sets off on this journey.  We learn that Noah has a 6th sense, sometimes feels an invisible hand that touches him, as it does when he first sees Eleanor Cunningham.<br />We learn about Eleanor's history, her husband who died by the Lake of Grief, her talents at reading and words, her feelings of being in a marriage that was not quite right.  We get deeply into the world of Taylor who runs the general store, his divorce, his love of people and ease at conversation.  He befriends Noah and gives him a job.  Thus, all of the people are in place who have brought this group to this moment.  We see the people who have died and feel the power of their influence as it remains among the living.<br />Events unfold at a leisurely, contemplative pace, but with great care.  Kay's language is superlative as when Noah relates about the &quot;gunsmoke angels&quot; from the war.  By the time the tale concludes, we have shared a spiritual journey with Noah and the many characters.  We have tasted their tribulation, but also have a sense of peace that things are right in the universe.  This is a wonderful book.  Bravo!ings are right in the universe.  This is a wonderful book.  Bravo!	2004-01-20
US	52562189	R23BJOG9GKQNNL	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Women In Heaven	Brown's best seller, perhaps ironically, wound up under the Christmas tree for me this year.  The buzz about the book is because of the way Dan deftly weaves enough historical facts into the plot to give the reader a sense that it MIGHT be true.<br />As literature, it is a popular page-turner with rather shallow characters.  Robert Langdon never really became life-like or very interesting.  Sophie Neveu was a good female lead -- brainy, brave and determined -- fitting for this subject matter.  I think my favorite characters were the villains.  I like Silas the albino monk who kept inflicting pain to keep him aware of Christ's suffering, while ignoring the commandment &quot;Thou shall not kill&quot; and offing all the people who he felt were on God's hit list.  I also really like Remy the butler who was kind of like a French R2D2 with enough human twists to keep him interesting.  It was a shame he was allergic to peanuts; because I would have liked to have him kept around to the end of the story.  Lee Teabring (if I correctly recall the character's name) as the millionaire on crutches was endearing to me at first; so I wasn't quite prepared for the twists at the end.  I found the suspicions Brown created on whether Bezu Fache the police chief was part of the plot or not to be a bit manipulative; the character could have been given a bit more depth.  While I did want to keep turning the pages, I found it a bit tiring how almost each chapter wound up the tension like a cliffhanger.  There are only so many cliffs one can hang over before it becomes routine.<br />As far as the reality of the book, many Christian theologians understand that the Bible was edited.  The role of women in the Bible was more shaped by Paul's attitudes than by those of Jesus Christ.  In The Urantia Book's version of the Life &amp; Teachings of Jesus, there was an entire Women's Corps of 62 female evangelists whose existence was edited out of scripture, and whose most important teacher was Mary Magdalene.  So while it is probably no surprise that the church is male dominated, nor is it equally surprising that God loves his daughters as much as his sons, Brown has brought all of these together with the Opus Dei and Priory of Sion to make us take pause and wonder.  Truth never suffers from honest inspection; so this is probably the greatest service from The Da Vinci Code.  Enjoy!ry Magdalene.  So while it is probably no surprise that the church is male dominated, nor is it equally surprising that God loves his daughters as much as his sons, Brown has brought all of these together with the Opus Dei and Priory of Sion to make us take pause and wonder.  Truth never suffers from honest inspection; so this is probably the greatest service from The Da Vinci Code.  Enjoy!	2004-01-19
US	52562189	R3JJ41ERKA5UD	0553582526	334109426	Dust to Dust: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hanging Around the Rafters	I enjoyed this book the way one enjoys a great dessert.  It goes down fast &amp; is very sweet.  The female officer Liska was a snappy wisecracking woman.  My mind kept picturing Frances MacDormand with the witty repartee.  Her relationship with her good looking but not dependable ex-husband Speed and her great kids gave fullness to the character as she handled the murders.  Kovacs seemed a bit more of a stereotyped gumshoe for me.  My mind kept picturing Jerry Orbach of TV's &quot;Law &amp; Order&quot; with the sardonic viewpoint and loaded quips.  Most interesting to me was the IA lieutenant Amanda Savard, an ice queen quivering with emotions that lay just beneath the surface.  The relationship between she and Kovacs was fascinating to track.  All three of the Fallon family characters were specific and rang true for me: The bitterness of police legend Mike in his wheelchair, his son Neil who could never measure up, and the posthumous rendering of Andy who seems like the all-American boy, except for the fact that he prefers boys to girls.  The dysfunctional dynamics of that family and how they fit into the story was superb.  More cardboard were the stock characters of Ace Wyatt, the policeman turned reality TV star and his assistant &quot;Slick&quot; Gaines, as Kovacs refers to him.  Hoag certainly has created a page-burner, one that keeps you flipping to see what will happen next.  The title never connected well to the story for me.  I thought &quot;Hanging Around the Rafters&quot; might have been a more clever title.  &quot;Dust to Dust&quot; is a good book that holds your attention and ends with a bang.  Enjoy!	2003-12-18
US	52562189	R2A9DSF1K60OOT	1400041090	582474494	A Distant Shore	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Somber But Moving	Caryl Phillips' &quot;A Distant Shore&quot; is a somber but moving tale.  I found it quite profound as it traces the lives of two people who never quite connect with each other or the world around them.  Dorothy is in her mid-50's and lives in a new development called Stoneleigh outside a smaller city of Weston somewhere north of London.  She has been divorced which lead to several affairs such as with married Arab magazine/book seller Mahmood and the separated fellow teacher Geoff Waverly.  Neither of these is very satisfying.  The affair with the teacher results in Dorothy losing her job and being sent into a forced retirement.  We learn of Dorothy's loss of her sister Sheila to cancer plus her sister's lesbian betrayer Maria and Dorothy's guilt about disconnecting from her sister for so many years.  Dorothy most connects with the equally isolated Solomon, a black nightwatchman who volunteers to drive the elderly to medical appointments and must endure racial slurs and hate mail.  Phillips gives us a good snapshot of the two characters and then delves into the past to show us what brought them to this point.  The tale of Solomon who has changed his name from Gabriel in his native African country to escape the savagery that resulted in the massacre of his family and led to a valiant covert escape hinging on bribes, payoffs and danger is probably the most moving section of the tale.  To me, equally profound is the descent into madness that Dorothy takes where Phillips gives us clue about all of Dorothy's thought processes and then glimpses of how others outside her view her emotional outbursts that are apparently uncontrolled.  The world of &quot;A Distant Shore&quot; is one of outcasts and the lonely.  While melancholy, I found it moving and profound.  Phillips' sense of rhythm and pacing make the book alternately thunder and meander.  Enjoy!	2003-12-12
US	52562189	R3R1UVSB6MPTOT	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Day Yells	I thoroughly enjoyed Night Whispers. I had no clue what the title had to do with the book; it could have been &quot;The Day Yells&quot; and made as much sense. When it started, I almost stopped reading. I thought it was going to be about a woman and a stalker. Then we find out that the stalker is F.B.I. agent Paul Richardson. From there the plot takes off like a skyrocket. I found myself repeatedly squeezing in an extra 15 minutes of reading time so I could down one more chapter. While a bit escapist since the characters are often rich and beautiful, McNaught's style is nevertheless gripping. Her sense of pacing, suspense and surprise were wonderful. The character Courtney was wonderful with her sassy teenage observations and way of saying what everyone else is too polite to articulate. I also fell in love with the caustic 95-year old great grandmother who is used to having her way, old enough not to care what people think, rich enough to do as she likes, and yet warms to the independently minded Sloan who is not used to being anyone else's woman. I was really sad when granny took the bullet. Slightly less than believable that for as gorgeous as Sloan is written to be and at age 30, she is so inexpert at the ways of romance. However, it sweetens the love affair with Noah who I was not sure whether to root for or vilify until right at the end. Jessup is an interesting character; and his battle with best friend Sara is given great detail even though a minor plot line. Sloan was utterly delightful and believable as a main character. This is a great book that keeps you wanting to turn the page to see what will happen next as McNaught supplies us with a roller coaster-like plot of twists and turns. I found the support of friends for Sloan in times of trouble to be a great and important universal theme. I hope you enjoy this as much as I!	2003-12-08
US	52562189	R34OMOQGV8F9IN	0679463135	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Zany	I hilariously laughed so many times while reading this book.  Alice Thrift is a marvelous character, so wrapped up in the world of medicine and accomplishment that she doesn't know how to interact socially.  To her parents' dismay, she comes to her grandmother's funeral with a fudge salesman Ray Russo, who seems to be the only person taking an interest in her.  Since her sister is gay, Alice is the hope for family and grandchildren; but because of her social skills, it's a complete long shot.  I was sitting in my doctor's office when I was reading about Alice's orgasm and laughed so hard that the receptionist had to know what I was reading.  Perhaps it's unbelievable that she marries the guy without ever being to his house; but Alice seems so swamped with work as the intern and so pressured that we believe it's possible.  The supporting characters are equally endearing.  Roommate Leo Frawley, the blond nurse hunk who knows everyone is a great friend.  His pregnant midwife girlfriend Meredith who keeps most of her charm for her job is terrific and well developed.  The birth of FIR with Alice saving him from being born in the toilet is hysterical.  Dr. Hastings who never has any kind words for anyone is a great character; the scene where Alice has to treat his ruptured disc is a riot.  Sylvie Schwartz the spike-haired chief resident is a great foil.  I found myself tearing through page after page, almost always surprised by the twists and turns that Elinor Lipman puts us through.  The ending was not quite as happy as I'd hoped things would turn out, but this book is a real gem!  Enjoy!	2003-12-04
US	52562189	R2QYUOS4TCENG9	0061093106	745444113	Red, White and Blue	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Real Americans	Since this is the first book I've read by this author, I can't compare it to her other work.  I found it to be somewhat superficial, but still interesting.  What I got from the book is that you can't tell who is a real American by looking at the color of their skin, where they born, or who their parents were.  The Wrath group headed by Vern Ostergard seems to want to save America for the Americans, but who is that?  Being an American is loving our freedom, not abusing it, knowing that each of us has a talent and something to give no matter who we are or where we came from.  The first part of the book with the history of the immigrants and the Native American pointed like an arrow for me to the conflict of the racist group.  In the end, the real Americans are people like the character Charlie who is willing to risk his life for our country and Lauren who bravely confronts the task of reporting on this situation to protect our freedoms through the freedom of the press.  While this isn't the greatest quality novel that one can read, it is interesting and thought provoking enough to spend some time with &quot;Red, White &amp; Blue.&quot; Enjoy!	2003-11-24
US	52562189	R3GAKUFY8AO9AF	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Stretch	I enjoy reading international authors and try to get a feel for how life looks in different parts of the world.  Anytime you read a translated work, a reader must accept that some of the rhythms and nuances that inflected the original work may see off-kilter.  From the United States reading Xingjian's work, it was a stretch.  Structurally, the work seems to lack unity.  Then there is Chapter 72 where the author argues with the editor, \\"This isn't a novel!  A novel must have a complete story.\\"  You realize that even though it took Xingjian 5 years to write this, it was never intended to be a traditional  structurally unified tale.  I remember one chapter early in the text where he goes up a mountain, gets lost from his guide, and is stranded and lost in the forest.  I stopped reading for awhile because I was worried about how the character would find his way down the mountain.  I needn't have worried, because the whole thread was dropped.  For all I know, he's still stranded on top of a mountain.<br />Once you begin to get used to the rhythm and seemingly disjointed structure of Xingjian's writing, it does unravel with a great beauty.  Like a travel guide of sorts, you wonder where the next set of pictures will take you.  The most dramatic and classically bite-sized engagement I had was in Chapter 46 where the man is trying to break off a relationship with a woman.  He is sexually attracted, but with little else.  She picks up a knife, eventually turning it on herself, and captures him at the same time, preventing him from leaving.  It's a snapshot, but it's masterful.<br />My sense is that all of these pictures are freeze-frames about a soul who is lost, without a real purpose or something in which to believe.  It is an exploration into loneliness, physical soulless liaisons, and stopgap celebrations.  While it is very long and hard to feel a sense of the whole, in the end it was a meaningful experience for me.  Enjoy!	2003-11-06
US	52562189	R32D8SGBS1S6CO	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Action-Packed	\\"The Golden Compass\\" is a great reading experience because of the marvelous action that sweeps you up and doesn't plunk you down until the last page.  The main character Lyra Belacqua is an amazing young lady, especially considering how completely nuts her parents are!  Her father, Lord Asriel, is hardly fatherly; and her mother, Mrs. Coulter, is power-hungry.  Neither parent offers the affection children crave; and yet Lyra is such a well-balanced practical little sprite that we easily forgive social maladjustments like lying, which actually proves an asset and earns her the nickname \\"Lyra Silvertongue.\\"<br />Philip Pullman did expand my vocabulary a bit.  \\"Oblation\\" is a religious term for a sacrifice; and here we have a church-sponsored agency that surgically alters children and adults into zombie-like automatons.  \\"Alethic\\" means \\"Of or relating to truth\\"; and here Pullman creates the \\"alethiometer\\" than can actually read truth in a crystal-ball \\"golden compass\\" manner.<br />Iorek Byrnison and the culture of the bears is an amazing fictional culture.  The idea of having a bear who wears armor as if it were his soul seems completely normal in this world.  The battle for Bolvangar and Iorek's fight seem to climax and turn the tide.  I found the book a bit hard to take with the cruelty toward children that this evil world seems to inflict.  But Gyptians Farder Coram, John Faa and the Costas ground the book with a sense of emotional loving reality.  The daemons are charming with their animal forms and human attachment.  The other culture of the witches is also tremendously interesting with the daemon goose of Serafina Pekkala freeing the little daemons who've been surgically separated.  Lee Scoresby as the balloonist is a wonderful mercenary character.<br />The book does have a dark tinge to it, as do the Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings books.  But Pullman does a great job of wrapping you up in the action and carrying you along, while the deeper philosophical meanings lay smoldering beneath surface.  It's a great ride!  Enjoy!meanings lay smoldering beneath surface.  It's a great ride!  Enjoy!	2003-10-13
US	52562189	R3JMDQL27BCEPQ	0802117511	94732989	Well	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Lazy Author	This book is fiction, but is not really a novel.  It's a scatterbrain scattershot approach to fiction that is more confusing than enlightening.  If this book were television, it'd be &quot;Saturday Night Live&quot; with series of sketches rather than a coherent tale told by an author.  Some individual scenes from the book are interesting such as the guy whose ex-girlfriend is trying to save his soul while his girlfriend is going crazy that she's putting moves on her man.  However, many scenes drag on interminably such as the funeral for a boxer following a nebulous array of funeral attendees.  &quot;Well&quot; interesting for a time, but ultimately is confusing, pointless and not worth reading.  Its best quality is that it is short with many blank pages inflating a flimsy fictional attempt.  Other reviews have called McIntosh a prodigy.  For me, he seems lazy, unable to be bothered with details like plot or character development. The table of contents is almost a chapter unto itself with long quotations that come across as pretentious and self-indulgent.  If you like a book that reads like the literary equivalent to an arty television commercial, McIntosh will have appeal.  This is mostly package and very little substance.  Next!	2003-09-17
US	52562189	RW6ZIQLRV0XX3	0670852295	565785892	The Green Knight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Green Knight & the Golden Buddah	Iris Murdoch's \\"The Green Knight\\" is a rather talky, long book that unfolds sputteringly.  That said, the territory she covers and the characters she creates do stay with us.  Despite the matrimonial ending of the book, it left me not altogether satisfied, perhaps a modern novel where we see that life has some victories and some defeats and is ultimately imperfect.  The book is difficult to begin as Murdoch throws over 11 new characters at you in the first 30 pages.  Not only that, but some of them have real names and nick names and place names and dog names and some are dead; so it begins quite puzzling as to who is who, and what the relationships are.<br />The central image is that of the green knight from King Arthur.  We are introduced to glimpses of the mysterious stranger who invades the house (another name) called Clifton and social group that lives and visits there.  The 3 daughters are fairly interesting young women, fairly traditional people each with a unique quirk.  Moy is the artistic one; Sefton the brain; and Aleph is the beauty.  Of course with beautiful young women, there are going to be a swarm of young men.  Harvey is one of the most perplexing, injured early in the story, he spends the rest of the novel overcoming the injury and his virginity.  Clement is also a quite interesting character, the actor who becomes so wrapped up in events that he doesn't particularly care about acting.  I was amazed by his continuing dedication to his brother Lucas who apparently wanted to kill him.  It didn't quite make sense to me that he was so oblivious to this bad intent.  Lucas was also a puzzle.  I thought he would be the villain, but instead Murdoch neutralizes him and then makes him disappear.  Peter Mir who comes to have such an impact on the group as the green knight or the golden Buddah, represents justice and enlightenment.  He comes into the story late and leaves early; so it is his impact on the group for which Murdoch aims.  Other characters are interesting.  The gay Bellemy who wants to become a priest has a long correspondence with Father Damian who we come to know only by letter.  Bellemy is a character that never seems to find a center of gravity, always looking to someone else for a sense of completion.  Louise is the mother who continually predicts that her youngest daughter is going crazy.  Anax is a dog who has a life and intelligence all his own.  The other smaller characters such as Harvey's mother Joan, Tessa, and Emil swirl about making the story complex, perhaps lifelike.<br />In the end, these were great characters that I enjoyed sharing time with, but in a rather untidy story with loose threads and unexplained results, somewhat like life.  Enjoy!resting.  The gay Bellemy who wants to become a priest has a long correspondence with Father Damian who we come to know only by letter.  Bellemy is a character that never seems to find a center of gravity, always looking to someone else for a sense of completion.  Louise is the mother who continually predicts that her youngest daughter is going crazy.  Anax is a dog who has a life and intelligence all his own.  The other smaller characters such as Harvey's mother Joan, Tessa, and Emil swirl about making the story complex, perhaps lifelike.<br />In the end, these were great characters that I enjoyed sharing time with, but in a rather untidy story with loose threads and unexplained results, somewhat like life.  Enjoy!	2003-09-02
US	52562189	R3QFDRVU6286RW	0802117414	553515611	Gilgamesh: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	World Inside A World	A singer named Rhett Miller wrote a song whose lyric is, &quot;There is a world inside the world that you see.&quot;  This kind of Zen-like perspective is one that fits this most interesting story where the external world changes from rural Australia to London to Armenia to Iraq and back again as the story progresses, but whose inner world is filled with characters each trying to find their place within that world.  The main character, Edith, starts the story as a teenage girl whose father has died and whose mother, Ada, is somewhat of a lost person, a romantic living amid an immensely practical world of the small village of Nunderup.  Her cousin Leopold who visits also seems restless, perhaps seeking adventure or simply trying to see enough of the world to find his place.  With him is his driver and companion Aram who flashes on the scene briefly, an orphan from the atrocities in Armenia, also rootless, not particularly belonging to anyone or anywhere.  Upon finding herself with the social stigma of an unmarried pregnant girl in 1937 Australia, Edith gives birth to Jim and decides to keep her baby and find the father Aram who she believes will marry her when he learns of their child.  With this, the novel becomes quite the epic adventure, crossing the sea, encountering a cook who seems to have too fond a liking for children, staying with her aunt in London before setting out for Armenia.  There we meet a whole range of characters including Hagop who befriends her and Tati the visionary Armenian poet while a world of external political intrigue amidst war swirls around Edith and young Jim while the internal world compass seems solidly fixed on finding a home.  Eventually, Edith learns of Aram's death and flees to Iran to be reunited ever so briefly with Leopold who takes them to a safe haven in Iraq, the very orphanage from which Aram came.  By now, Jim's internal world is quickly developing as he also seems out of place, waking when he should be sleeping, not quite fitting in.  Events take them back to Australia where Jim continues to be more of an odd duck, not quite feeling at home in his own country.  Joan London's prose grabs you while the story's worldwide scope lets you travel through the book, all the while seeing the world inside the world within each of the characters.  &quot;Gilgamesh&quot; is an excellent accomplishment!  Enjoy!fitting in.  Events take them back to Australia where Jim continues to be more of an odd duck, not quite feeling at home in his own country.  Joan London's prose grabs you while the story's worldwide scope lets you travel through the book, all the while seeing the world inside the world within each of the characters.  &quot;Gilgamesh&quot; is an excellent accomplishment!  Enjoy!	2003-08-11
US	52562189	RICP1L5AVWQCP	0802117295	411590835	Dorian: An Imitation	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Conga Line	It was soon after I saw the movie \\"The League Of Extraordinary Gentlemen\\" where Dorian Gray is one of the characters that I ran across Will Self's book and thought it'd be interesting to read his treatment of the character.  The difficulty with the book is that no character is actually likeable, no one for whom to root.  The updating of Oscar Wilde's mechanism of a painting that ages to a 3D video artpiece in which the young naked Dorian posed and whose video image ages is interesting enough.  However, the novel is hardly complimentary to the gay community on which it focuses.  The graphic scenes of sexual orgy actually get a bit boring as Self repeats his image of \\"conga line of bug***\\" so many times that it's more repetitive than interesting.  Wotton's wife is called \\"Batface\\" for most of the book with no one remarking on the unkind cruelty of the denomination, but simple accepted as a matter of course.  The novel also gets quite expansive with Gray going to Riverside County, California, which stretched the story without really adding to it.  The reversal in the Epilogue with a story within a story seemed to be more of a mind game imposed on the tale by the author in an attempt to be clever than something which seemed to be necessary.  Will Self does have some strengths.  I found the book to be well paced, his prose has a uniqueness, and his vocabulary is very large.  While the tale was interesting enough for a quick reading, it would surprise me if this stays in print long.  Take it or leave it.	2003-08-01
US	52562189	R29HMXOGWKOGIQ	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Intricate Plot	I enjoyed the seesaw action of this book, going from Spencer Grant to Roy Miro and back, then adding in the subplots of Harris Descoteaux & Eve Jammer.  The most exciting section was the car being carried downstream in a flood.  The mystery aspect where Spencer recovers his memory and comes to terms with the past read like a psychological thriller.  For me, I never felt like I really knew Grant; but perhaps that is what occurs with a character who doesn't totally know himself.  Roy Miro was certainly an interesting little guy, running around killing people for their own good.  Rocky the dog was a great animal character whose reversal at the end made him essential to the plot.  With his head bobbing in enjoyment during the car chases, he was a wonderful character.  I also enjoyed Eve Jammer and her writhing rubber sheets.  I wondered if Koontz intended to say that the only way a woman would become president was through sex and assassination.  That raised my eyebrows a bit.  Valerie is a great woman lead, independent and capable.  The introduction of Steven Ackblom near the end of the tale was chilling and a great catalyst to bring the tale to conclusion.  Overall, this was an intricate book.  I enjoyed watching how the pieces fit together more than being moved by the characters.	2003-07-21
US	52562189	R2O1XVOBCWW7XF	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Zealots	This book is challenging because of its length.  I enjoyed this tale about John Brown and his family.  It illuminated a period of history about which I was only meagerly aware.  Although the story is unevenly distributed with the Kansas raids and the actual Harpers Ferry incident flashing by, it does appear to be a fictionalized account based on a plethora of research.  Banks does a good job a balancing the story between the fictional life account of son Owen and the facts of John Brown's life.  What I found most interesting was that Brown was intensely religious.  His war with the government permitting slavery was based on deeply held religious convictions.  The contradiction between his actions and the religious beliefs is fascinating. As one reviewer noted, the crux of the tale is, &quot;Do the ends justify the means?&quot;  Brown felt they did and paid the ultimate price for his zealotry.  Probably Banks' most successful accomplishment is his ability to convincingly take us to 19th century and capture the everyday life and challenges of the Brown family.  Large families, hard farm work, deadly illnesses, and financial worries all make us relate to the family characters.  I found this a rewarding reading experience, but certainly a challenge.  Enjoy!	2003-07-08
US	52562189	R1DPJ27BL5VHHR	0385416091	763525096	The Well of Loneliness	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Paramedics Please	I found &quot;The Well of Loneliness&quot; to be a very interesting &amp; affecting tale.  I stumbled across the book in a used bookshop.  My hardback copy was a 17th printing from 1933.  So since the book was written in 1928, it had to have created quite a sensation to go through 17 printings in its first 5-years.  When I bought this, I thought it was about paramedics in the early part of the last century.  Of course, with Stephen Gordon's experiences during World War I, it was about paramedics, but not primarily as I soon realized.<br />I found the writing to hold up remarkably well.  The characters are fleshed enough to resonate.  Sir Philip's love for his daughter and mother Anna's reserve and lack of attachment set the stage for a somewhat confusing childhood for Stephen Gordon.  Bring to the picture her tutor Puddle who identifies with Stephen's struggle and understands her even before Stephen does, and add the flighty Angela Crossby as her first love interest against a backdrop of unfriendly townspeople; and Hall creates a quite interesting dynamic of unrequited love and betrayal.  With Rafferty, she even writes a wonderful horse character!  After Stephen's removal from Morton, the family estate, she begins a period of increasing self-sufficiency, assisted by the luxury of relative financial security from her father, and becomes a writer.  The years in Paris after the war are an interesting period, peopled with more interesting characters from the parties and circles of outcasts.  I found the subplot of the love relationship between Jamie and Barbara to be intensely dramatic, climaxed by Jamie's last act of despair.  As for Stephen's letting go of her true love for that love's happiness, it was a rather sad ending.  All in all, this is a novel that stands up as important for its sociological implications.  It makes one long for a culture in which the pursuit of happiness is respected to be as individual as it is essential for all women and men.	2003-05-28
US	52562189	R15UFYQM9TG6OX	0345424468	590727802	Violin	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Ghostly Serenade	This is an interesting tale, although at times I wanted to stop reading.  The first third of the book bogs down a bit as we get long dialogues between Triana Becker and Stephan the ghost.  It is a romantic kind of tale.  Faced with the death of her second husband Karl from AIDS who left her a wealthy New Orleans widow, Triana lays in bed with the corpse for days lamenting until a mysterious stranger comes to serenade her with the beautiful violin.  This is music so gorgeous, that it casts a spell that makes one seem to lose track of time and place.  We discover as family comes and goes that the violinist is a ghost who was a pupil of Beethoven and died trying to rescue an especially rare long necked Stratavarius violin.  Stephan sees into her mind, brings back memories of loss such as Triana's child Lily, her divorce from her first husband, the death of her alcoholic mother, the disappearance of her much-loved sister Faye, & the recriminations of her sister Katrinka.  However, the haunting goes awry as Triana snatches the violin and will not return it.  Here, the novel really picks up the pace as we are transported back centuries into Stephan's life in Vienna as the son of a wealthy Russian diplomat who funds Beethovan to educate his son.  Triana and ghost Stephan step outside of this world of the past as they see the real-life memory Stephan rescue the violin from his father's burning palace, fight with his father when Stephan wants to study with Paganini, and murder his father after he smashes his fingers with a cane for the son's disobedience.  We see Stephan murdered by guards and go through the discovery of his ghostly existence.  All of this is punctuated by beautiful dream-like visions of Triana.  Apparently, this is a contest of wills between the living and the dead.  Triana is victorious and winds up mysteriously transported from her New Orleans home to Vienna, unable to explain the shadowland she has traversed.  Triana becomes master of the violin, inherits Stephan's talent for music, and gives concerts globally.  She becomes wealthy beyond her already considerable estate.  The novel concludes in Rio, which is beautifully described.  Ghostly dreams from the first part of the novel are brought into reality in Rio.  Rice does a good job of bringing us through the second two-thirds of the book to the final resolution.  While the pacing is not completely excellent, there is a lyrical quality to the way Anne describes the power of the music.  All in all, this was an interesting tale, a mostly pleasant read.  Enjoy!s Stephan's talent for music, and gives concerts globally.  She becomes wealthy beyond her already considerable estate.  The novel concludes in Rio, which is beautifully described.  Ghostly dreams from the first part of the novel are brought into reality in Rio.  Rice does a good job of bringing us through the second two-thirds of the book to the final resolution.  While the pacing is not completely excellent, there is a lyrical quality to the way Anne describes the power of the music.  All in all, this was an interesting tale, a mostly pleasant read.  Enjoy!	2003-05-01
US	52562189	R1VNC8CKVMUK0H	0375405054	325972499	Great Dream of Heaven: Stories	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Prose Dramas	&quot;Great Dreams of Heaven&quot; is a quick read at a breezy 142 pages.  Some of these stories would jump alive in an oral reading because they are essentially prose dramas.  &quot;Betty's Cats&quot; is a wonderful example of a lady who just refuses to see that a trailer full of cats, even if they stink and complaints have been made to the health department, could be a nuisance to anyone.  &quot;Living the Sign&quot; is a great little drama about a guy who stops into a fast food shop, sees a handwritten sign, &quot;Life is what's happening to you while you're making plans for something else.&quot;  He proceeds to grill the counter clerks until he find out who wrote the sign.  After the long investigation, he finds his answer in the geeky Dicky; the piece ends with a little profundity about plans.  My favorite story is &quot;It Wasn't Proust&quot; which is essentially an argument between a husband &amp; wife over past romances in France; the dialogue sparkles with the banter having edge &amp; wit.  While a couple stories are too short to gain momentum and a couple are puzzle pieces, overall this a wonderful blend of prose and drama.  Enjoy!	2003-04-10
US	52562189	RBI2GNE8D76A4	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Doctor Turned Pothead	If this book were a news headline, I imagine it would be \\"Doctor Turned Pothead.\\"  It was most unbelievable to me that Ben Givens would smoke dope, hitchhike, & go to such extremes to kill himself.  If he's going do suicide, why worry about whether his body will be discovered in a week or two weeks?  This seemed contrived to launch us on the journey east of the mountains.  I didn't relate to his internal struggle.  Guterson's injects a string of characters that have little significance to Ben; so why should we care?  Even at the end, he meets Bea who knew him as a boy and drives him home; so?  At one point, I thought this would be a feel-good book where the doctor learns that even though he's struggling with cancer, he can still live each day and give to those around him.  That point seemed to have eluded Ben.  Instead, he returns home too sick to die at his own hand.  The most interesting character was Rex the dog who is wild chasing the wolves and then struggles with his injuries.  Perhaps if the story were told through the dog's point of view, it would have been more original.  I enjoyed the ending more than the beginning.  Overall, it didn't grab me.  I thought the author had to write a book rather than had something to say.  Taxi!	2003-04-08
US	52562189	R35A6HF83MRR0U	0151466939	999131810	Kapo	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Not-So-Beautiful Mind	Any translation is going to be challenging.  Richard Williams' translation from the Serbo-Croatian comes across as choppy, sputtering in its inner dialogue, which may or may not reflect the rhythms of Aleksandar Tisma's original.  As a psychological study, this is a great book.  It delves into the mind of Lamian who survives Auschwitz by becoming a Kapo, or prison leader, who beats, kills and rapes his fellow Jews in order to survive.  As a novel, it is less successful because while many brutalities are graphically recalled, not much happens in the present. Like bookends, we start as Lamian thinks he has finally found Helena Lifka and end in her flat.  In the meantime, we flash back, find out about Lamian's struggles as a boy, his distance from his Jewish parents, his college struggles, his sexual self-discovery and the perversions of war, and then the haunting remembrance of brutality that will not fade and not allow him to live a normal life.  Lamian is disturbed from the beginning of the novel, and only experiences momentary peace.  This book is a difficult read not only because of the translation and the novel's construction which is one long internal dialogue, but because of the difficult nature of the subject matter.  It is sometimes difficult to tell the difference between the past and present, which is how it must be for the main character.  It is a brave book, facing realities that need to not be forgotten.  It is particularly interesting because it details the treatment of Jews in Serbia during World War II.  Read & weep.	2003-03-27
US	52562189	RJ92UX1HUYZ87	0802138071	593905079	The Spirit Cabinet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spirit Fusion	\\"The Spirit Cabinet\\" uses the world of magicians and magic as an allegory for an exploration of self-worth.  Much of the story takes place through the eyes of Rudolfo, who is the showman partner of Jurgan.  The two come from colorful pasts.  They are lovers as well as partners in a magic act.  The novel contains several romantic graphic gay sexual encounters, one in a hail storm & one on an exercise bike.  Rudolfo has a flare for working with animals, most notably Samson whose thoughts & fears are most humanely told.  Samson is like the cowardly lion, although at times he's alternately bored or suffering from indigestion.  The plot revolves around an auction where Jurgan buys a collection of books & magical equipment that belonged to Harry Houdini.  This apparently contains secret magical information.  We're not absolutely clear about what happens within the spirit cabinet, but Jurgen appears to undergo a transformation where he becomes increasingly less material, his body translucent, and less responsive to physical gravity.  The culmination event reminded me of the idea of spirit fusion presented in The Urantia Book.  Other magicians swirl in subplots.  Preston the Adequate steals Jurgen & Rudolfo's lovely assistant Miranda.  Envious magician Kaz tries to steal the Houdini collection.  There is also a chauffeur from the African Dogon tribe who appears to have magical qualities.  Quarrington peoples the novel with a collection of oddballs who all seem to question their self-worth.  The quasi-mystical becomes magical and possible.  Jurgen's climax where he seems to explode skyward into luminous bits is wonderful.  The barriers to enjoyment come from the construction which is a bit hard to follow.  One chapter is in the present, the next in flashback, and another in a dream.  Sometimes it's hard to tell what's what, which may be the point.  Overall, this is an interesting and entertaining tome, if a bit off-center. Enjoy!	2003-03-24
US	52562189	R2UZ34HRBCR25B	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Throwing Rocks at a Worm Hole	At the friends of the library sale where you can fill up a grocery bag full of hardbacks for 5 bucks, one doesn't have time amid crazed shoppers to consider the intricacies of story line before purchase, which is how \\"The Cobra Event\\" wound up in my bag.  I thought it was a spy novel, which it kind of is.<br />My reading of this came amid tensions with Iraq; so the scenes of bioterrorism in Iraq with mobile units loaded onto trucks was particularly interesting.  The explanation of how the French built a hugh bioreactor facility in Iraq and consider Iraq as a cash cow helped give me background to the nuances of current international diplomacy.  (The French oppose war with Iraq.  My congressman wants to rename French fries to freedom fries.)<br />The weakest part of the novel is the characterization.  Characters don't feel like real people.  Dr. Alice Austin is quintessential bravery; she plunges on despite chilling risks.  While her attraction for Hopkins contains a hint of romance, we never really feel her personality, other than as a scientist absorbed in the biological mystery.  The impulsive Mark Littleberry is a great character.  His impulsive raid in Iraq which happens early in the plot is one of the story's highlights.  It is loosely tied into the conclusion with the Iraqi scientist appearing a week later in New Jersey; but we never get a sense of consequences or of the authorities being able to crush the terrorism-for-profit Swiss firm.  Tom Cope, the unsub, is also a fairly flat character with more enmity than common sense.  The plot of how he generates the brainpox virus is absorbing.<br />For me, the beginning of the story was the best part as Alice plays part detective searching out the clues as to why Kate Moran and the harmonica man contracted such a deadly disease.  I enjoyed the research upon which the book is based.  For one unfamiliar with the subject, it was a convincing eye opener.  The death sequences with people gouging out their eyes, eating their lips and slitting their own throats was more gruesome than I care to read.  The continual onslaught with no comic relief was like throwing rocks at a worm hole where there is no bottom to hear it land.<br />All in all, this is a quick read.  It's a novel that makes you think.  It remains timely and topical in 2003.  Enjoy!eir lips and slitting their own throats was more gruesome than I care to read.  The continual onslaught with no comic relief was like throwing rocks at a worm hole where there is no bottom to hear it land.<br />All in all, this is a quick read.  It's a novel that makes you think.  It remains timely and topical in 2003.  Enjoy!	2003-03-19
US	52562189	R1G6LAEREO975E	0805055894	858433159	Tabloid Dreams: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Offbeat & Original	\\"Tabloid Dreams\\" is like the sit-com version of the works of Edgar Allen Poe.  There are so many dead bodies by the time we get to the end of the collection that we marvel at all the different ways they've died.  In \\"Titanic Victim Speaks Through Waterbed,\\" we see an Englishman who falls in love if only for a moment on the deck of the Titanic and urges the lady to get into a lifeboat and live.  He dies and has numerous observations on life as he wafts around in a ghostly existence.  The collection concludes perfectly as with bookends with the same incident told through the eyes of the woman in \\"Titanic Survivors Found in Bermuda Triangle.\\"  After having gotten into the lifeboat and mysteriously slept decades before rescue, she decides life really isn't worth living and offs herself in a bathtub.  We see a widow who enters a cookie baking contest and sets her apron on fire, a parrot who is the reincarnation of his wife's dead husband fly into a window, a nymphomaniac put a meteor through a guy's brain who is busy kissing her feet, a nine-year old hit man who leaves a trail of bodies, a woman with a death kiss whose lovers drown, get baseballs smashing their brain or die in auto crashes, JFK who wasn't killed at an auction of Jackie's belongings who did die, and the whole planet gets blown up when struck by a meteor.  2 stories do not have dead bodies like the boy with the tatoo of Elvis and the court reporter with a glass eye who puts it in a glass of water to spy on her husband having an affair; but they probably would have liked to kill someone!  Butler does a great job of making us look at the world from a different perspective.  This collection is delightfully offbeat and original.  Enjoy!	2003-03-05
US	52562189	R1R9PFAOS5IXBU	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Ruby, You're Like A Dream	Ray Charles sang a song, \\"Ruby, you're like a dream.\\" That'd be a good song selection for the movie soundtrack. \\"Ruby in the Smoke\\" reads quickly. It takes a number of twists and turns. Sally Lockheart is a great role model because she is an independent young woman in an era when women were still expected to be homemakers, economically dependent on men. Not only is the protagonist a woman, but the main villain is also. Mrs. Holland is a spiteful woman with no positive quality; so we love to hate her. She is the perfect foil for Ms. Sally. I found the idea that opium could somehow help one recall deep memories from childhood to be somewhat suspect; it's almost as if Pullman makes a case for therapeutic usage of addictive drugs. I also didn't find much use for the superstition that some evil curse could be connected with a gem stone and therefore found the ending event frustratingly wasteful. The supporting characters are strongly written, the photographer, the actress, the thugs, the twins, Trembler, and Jimmy. The action and pacing are good, making one wonder what could happen next. On the whole, this was a brief but enjoyable reading experience!	2003-02-27
US	52562189	R31VUNM878YNBX	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	2	3	N	N	CSI New York: 1896	\\"The Alienist\\" could be the basis for the next CSI TV spinoff, \\"CSI New York: 1896.\\" Caleb Carr gets great traction by turning back the clock. The historical setting and depth of research frames the novel; but it is the story that propels it. This is an intellectual pursuit, much like the CSI shows on TV as Lazlo Kreizler helps focus on the criminal by looking at what is known and projecting & testing new suppositions.<br /><br />I found the myriad of issues that flavor the novel to be of equal importance. Themes of economics are explored such as the Santorellis living a very poor slum life in New York. Themes of rascism are explored as the attitudes of Rev. Victor Dury toward the American Indians and attitudes of New Yorkers toward blacks such as Cyrus, Kreizler's assistant. Themes of attitudes toward homosexuals are certainly detailed as the murders center around male prostitutes. Themes of sexism and gender roles are explored such as Sara Howard's wanting to be a police detective, but having to settle for being a secretary at the department. Themes of police abuse of power are explored such as the villain Connor who kidnaps or assassinates. Themes of economic power and clout were explored such as the forced meeting with J.P. Morgan. Themes of equal justice are explored as concern for even the least of society is demonstrated. All of these serve to give the novel an exquisite depth beyond just a thriller.<br />I found the characterizations to be pretty good. I wasn't sure I really got to know John Moore, despite the story being told through his eyes. I kept expecting some romantic attachment would develop with Sara. I enjoyed the real life person of Theodore Roosevelt and his family being a character. I was particularly impressed how Carr is able to flesh out a pivotal but still relatively minor character like Adam Dury and make us not only know the history, but be touched by his life. Carr brings this full circle by having Kreizler give consideration to the impact of the way the plot resolves on this minor character's life.<br />We all approach novels with expectations. I searched for & read this book because of a favorite Amazon reviewer. I was open to the material, hoping only for a good novel. Carr has delivered this, which is why this book continues to draw attention. Enjoy!f the way the plot resolves on this minor character's life. <br />We all approach novels with expectations. I searched for & read this book because of a favorite Amazon reviewer. I was open to the material, hoping only for a good novel. Carr has delivered this, which is why this book continues to draw attention. Enjoy!	2003-02-06
US	52562189	R3AH4UC32PYJ16	0312290187	288599187	Salthill: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Horses, Romance & Race Relations	Judith Barnes' freshman novel is an expansive tale set mostly in Canada.  She does so many things well.  The story is one that captures our attention.  Garnet Harris is a black man who as a youth experiences a difficult beating and family history.  He escapes his tangled history and acquires the skills of an excellent horse trainer.  In 1946, ragged and worn, he stumbles upon Salthill, a ranch in British Columbia owned by Irish immigrant, the aristocratic Grey St. Ogger, who welcomes him and gives him a job.  Over the next five years these two men bond in a special way.  Grey's own son Gordon decides he wants to become a doctor, much to the dismay of this family of horsemen.  Harris seems to step into the role of an adopted son.  Sister Flavia marries and starts her family.  Grey helps Harris buy a nearly wild horse, Red, who becomes one of the most well drawn animal characters I've read.  Barnes encompasses and brings to life the independence and passion of this amazing horse.  Daughter Elsa who was left in Ireland with an abusive grandmother early in life goes to school and magically returns a young woman.  Elsa's and Harris' chemistry connects in an exploding passion that despite her youth and the difference between their races cannot be denied.  Barnes takes the novel fully into this steamy, seemingly ill-fated romance.  Harris feels something between guilt and betrayal toward his benefactor Grey despite his inability to resist Elsa's advances.  This lead Harris to pack up and leave.  The novel jumps years ahead as the consequences of this unresolved romance come to light as well as the hidden history behind the St. Oggers of Salthill.  As Barnes writes him, Harris is hardly the most likeable of protagonists, an abrupt man who is haunted by his history as well as drawn by his ability.  Elsa, a talented artist and painter, has a bit of the Irish vinegar running in her veins as the two bash and smash at coming to terms with their illogical and irresistible romance.  By the conclusion the novel seems to have run its course rather than achieving a magical denouement.  This is an excellent read that makes us hope for more magic in Barnes' sophomore effort.  Enjoy!.  By the conclusion the novel seems to have run its course rather than achieving a magical denouement.  This is an excellent read that makes us hope for more magic in Barnes' sophomore effort.  Enjoy!	2003-01-18
US	52562189	R1WCILT7XU2HDP	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	J.K. Christie Meets Agatha Rowling	I've enjoyed each of the four books so far published in this series.  The thing that makes \\"Harry Potter & the Goblet of Fire\\" such a wonderful book is that it is a superb mystery.  We really need the final chapters where all of the details of what was going on all along finally come to light.  The action of the book makes it also a superb page-turner.  I couldn't wait to find out what would happen next.  The fact that it is set against the backdrop of a world of wizards and witches gives such a unique setting for the mystery to shine.  Rowling's characters are also so wonderfully human from the pompus Bagman to the cool Krum to jealous Ron down to Moaning Myrtle who turns up whenever Harry gets close to a body of water, be it the bathtub or lake!  The final dual between Harry and U-Know-Who is incredibly sustained tension.  Rowling has done a wonderful job like Agatha Christie at winding the mechanism of the mystery up so tightly we wince and then letting it spin out facts to explain the mystery as Dumbledore patiently listens to Harry's account of the duel.  This is an exquisite thriller.  The lessons of loyalty, friendship, and focusing on the truth are superb lessons that resonate with children and adults alike.  Don't miss this modern classic!	2002-12-30
US	52562189	R1SUQD6NFOAOZB	0399148663	928973909	Fragrant Harbor	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A Full Circle	I really enjoyed this book. I liked the sparks of humor, &quot;What do you say to a 900 pound gorilla with a machine gun?&quot; (&quot;Sir.&quot;) My appreciation for it grew after I'd finished my reading and was able to look back on it. Granted, it's not until the last 50 pages of the book that you begin to understand why the first section about Dawn Stone is there. Until the reading is complete, the novel seemed disjointed; but afterward, it seemed remarkably unified. I loved how the characters of the first and last sections set in the modern time completed the story of Tom Stewart. The historical novel which is the largest middle section of the book is incredibly fascinating. The unrequited love of Tom for Sister Maria that is never quite articulated but certainly implied is the emotional glue that holds the tale. In the end, Lancaster brings us to a full circle fulfilled in time. As readers, we gain a greater perspective that supercedes the point of view of any of the individual characters which is a remarkable feat. While the criticisms that there are better Hong Kong novels or that he could have more description might be true, I think Lancaster has masterfully done something different. He weaves the reader through the storylines and then pulls us out of them to give a greater sense of wholeness. If angels live centuries in service, then the readers' perspective comes closer to that more eternal viewpoint through this novel which is breathtaking. Bravo!	2002-12-04
US	52562189	RWPRXFKSHQ6IG	0385499248	583480102	Nowhere Man: The Pronek Fantasies	Books	2	8	21	N	N	Mishmash	A mishmash well stated is still no more than a well-stated mishmash.  Hemon's lyrical quality to his writing is superb.  He can wrap more words and images together than most modern-day writers.  If you want to read a paragraph or two, you won't find a better writer.<br />However, a story needs to make sense in order to be a novel.  We go through the entire book; and at the end we are introduced to a completely different character, Captain Pick.  Pick is a Russian in China who has great bravado as a recalcitrant expatriot who hangs out in the opium dens and has a homosexual affair with Japanese Commander Otani.  Then we flash to the future where someone else comes to the same hotel room and finds that significant.  The only connection I detect to the rest of the novel is that Pick for a brief period called himself Pronek; so are we to understand from this brief reference that Pick WAS Pronek?  Who knows.  What a let down.<br />The structure of the book is also disheveled.  We read about Pronek through eyes of one with a sexual identity crisis.  It could have been interesting if the story went anywhere with it.  We zip back and forth between events and with timelines, blurring how one sections relates to the next rather than illuiminating it.<br />In the end, \\"Nowhere Man\\" comes across as a book by a very talented writer who began writing and stopped when he stopped.  Nan A. Talese needs to fire the editor who handled this book.  It's like a wonderful dinner that tastes good going down only to leave you with indigestion.  Taxi!	2002-11-12
US	52562189	R2GAI3IRKAKLJW	0425145638	465097683	Fatal Cure	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Cotton Candy Fiction	\\"Fatal Cure\\" is a quick read.  There's no depth of character to slow the reader; but the plot weaves as pages turn.  Dr. Angela Wilson is a pathologist who does not like her boss touching her on the derriere or pulling her onto his lap for a peek at the microscope, a scientific lap dance.  When she complains about sexual harassment, her boss suddenly gets upset with her.  Then when a dead body of the former hospital administrator is found in her basement requiring continual absences from work, she gets fired!  Where is CSI Vermont!?!  ...  This book was fun because something was always happening.  It was also frustrating because the characters lacked perception.  This is a fast read that's fiction's nutritional equivalent to cotton candy.  A definite maybe!	2002-10-31
US	52562189	RN145NJY8RXP3	1928556051	438338513	The Ballad of the Flim-Flam Man	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Thoroughly Enjoyable Piece of Americana	This is a wonderful little time capsule.  Originally published in 1965, the story of Mordecai Jones, also known as \\"the flim-flam man,\\" and Curley Treadway is an episodic tale filled with the local color of eastern North Carolina 40 years ago.  Back then, the eastern part of the state was a rural poor man's land without speedy highways, dependent upon tobacco for its economy.  This episodic tale recounts the adventures of young Curley who went AWOL from the military and meets up with Mr. Jones as he is thrown from a train.  Being the obliging sort, Curley pulls Jones' head out of a puddle, saving his life, and thus sets up the friendship that creates havoc throughout the eastern part of the state.  The cons they pull off are all great fun from selling punchboards, gambling, stealing chickens, playing guitar, and even substituting for the revival minister when it's time to pass the hat.  They steal a truck full of liquor from moonshiner Dooley, and proceed to drive that truck all over the East dispensing good spirits wherever they go.  Near the end, Curley crashes the truck right into a church, appropriately enough, setting up the final climax of the book.  Like all good partnerships, this one is tested by the love of a pretty girl, Miss Bonnie Lee, who takes Curley's heart faster than you can say \\"jackrabbit.\\"  Some of the language remembers the old South as blacks are referred to as \\"coloreds.\\"  Given the time frame, it seems to fit, despite how it might currently be received.  Owen certainly knows his local references and gives the flavor of this area.  It's good fun, a pretty quick read.  Seek & enjoy!	2002-10-23
US	52562189	R2LOJAKVY9DZKH	0786868279	624080639	Unsung Heroes of American Industry	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Will Worm Its Way Into Your Day	Poirier's &quot;Unsung Heroes of American Industry&quot; is a quick read, but an exquisite one.  &quot;Worms&quot; was my favorite because of how real Billy's character shined through in a matter of a few pages.  While the topic of losing a child is one of the most difficult to handle, Mark Jude treats it with care.  We see Billy and Dora's relationship disintegrate after Charlotte is lost.  Almost equally as wonderful for me was &quot;Gators.&quot;  Vaughn's unrequited love for the shoe-making Durina seemed like a 21st Century O Henry to me.  The care and sacrifice we give without thought when we love someone shines through.  Duina's mother Honey is one of the most playful gator-gutting gals you're likely to encounter.  &quot;A Note On the Type&quot; was also a very strong story.  Aunt Lena, the unsocialized reader of romance novels, is a great character.  From the moment Simon finds the wooden dildo in his bedroom, we know we're in for a quirky plot.  I didn't totally get his fixation with the meat cutter, but the story seemed a great examination of securing failure with success so near.  This is a short book and reads quickly.  I had a lot of fun with it!  Enjoy!	2002-10-04
US	52562189	R12GAEJ1FH79YO	014002476X	518109426	The Unicorn	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Flows Gracefully	\\"The Unicorn\\" has great pacing that makes you want to turn the page and see what happens next.  It's slowed only by the characters' self-analysis.  We might say there's a swamp of feeling that grows to a flood of feeling which paralells the weather within the story. Unicorn is set in a remote area of the British Isles by the sea.  The story alternates characters through whom we see the story in its different parts: Marian, a teacher who comes to Gaze Castle and Effingham who's in love with 3 different women at different times, and who, through profuse self-analysis, is able to talk himself out of each of them.  Both characters embody the yin and yang of uncertainty.  It's their travel through waves of emotional uncertainty that gives the tale it's life-like feel.  The supporting characters are delightfully distinct.  Violet Evercreech is a judgmental oracle that made me picture Lily Tomlin running around the castle.  Gerald Scottow is compex mix of opportunist and homosexual domineer.  Denis is somber and taciturn, attracted briefly to Marian.  The best chapter is Denis' rescue of Effingham.  Jamsie, Scottow's boy toy, is delightfully weak.  At the center of the storm is Hannah around whom Murdoch swirls the tale.  Although the dead bodies tend to multiply quickly, we leave Unicorn with a bittersweet regret.  This is one to savor!  Enjoy!	2002-10-04
US	52562189	R1GSQQLL6H1CHR	1560253754	663458111	My Less Than Secret Life: A Diary, Fiction, Essays	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Beat Me Until I Laugh	Jonathan Ames is a jewel!  It will be interesting to see if the Letterman show actually lets him go on!  Bleep bleep bleep.  This book continues where \\"What's Not to Love\\" left off.  Jonathan's Walter Middy style prose is both innocent and X-rated.  Whether he's talking about nude wrestlers in The Herring Wonder, trying to get invited to his first orgy or taking his dad onto a porn set, he's able to take the unimaginable and make it hilarious.  The whole chapter on penis enlargement is a hoot; and the S&M support group is hysterically funny.  My only caution with this book is that if you read it publicly such as on the treadmill at the gym, you might find people looking at you with enquiring eyes when you start to howl!  This is another gem from our American Oscar Wilde!  Don't miss it!	2002-09-27
US	52562189	R3UYNT469UVKO6	0802117228	844047032	Skirt and the Fiddle	Books	4	6	7	N	N	So Hip	This book was my introduction to Egolf who is an interesting writer.  At times this was so hip, I really wasn't sure what was going on.  Charlie is a half Cambodian, half black, alcoholic violin virtuoso whose gigs fall through and decides to live in a flop house.  He works at a deli and moonlights bashing rats in the sewer on a pay per carcass basis.  He buddies up with his friend sometimes called Tinsel, sometimes called Greetz, who does not believe in bathing or cleaning, calls himself an anarchist, and dreams of robbing a bank someday.  After several spurts of bad behavior, the guys meet up with Louise Gascoyne,  a wealthy jetset reporter who circles the globe looking for danger.  She lures the guys out to an elegant restaurant, dresses them in Armani, gets Tinsel to take a bath, and then suffers from crabs which she extracts from the anarchist.  The boys create havoc for a movie crew filming just outside of the upscale hotel as Charlie falls for Louise.  Escaping through the lobby, Tinsel steals Louise's purse and camera.  To get back at him, Charlie goes back and robs the deli, steals their truck, and sets up Tinsel to rob a bank as revenge.  It's a fast-paced, improbable, but quite fun romp, filled with lunacy.  We don't really get a sense of character which is sacrificed for the witty barrage of dialogue and the ambiance of the street.  Eglof handles dialogue exceptionally well.  Maybe the sequel will allow us to know the characters' motivating force.  This one goes down quick and sweet.  Enjoy!	2002-09-27
US	52562189	R334I4R8QTB6ZN	1573222011	510182268	The Illuminated Soul	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Dreamscape	Stollman creates a marvelous work of fiction in \\"The Illuminated Soul.\\"  His characters are so real that they acquire a life of their own.  Joseph, through whose eyes we see the story, is a noted scientist in the field of neuroanatomy who has written a book called \\"The Illuminated Soul.\\"  Thus, we have a book within a book.  His brother Asa, is blind.  Both men are unmarried and take care of each other.  For them as for the story, the past overshadows the present.  Their mother Adele was an earthy woman who supported her sons as a kosher caterer.  Their lives are forever changed by a vistor, the luminous Eva Higashi.  It is through the power of these characters that the story affects us.<br />Stollman's prose is among some of the most lyrical and affecting.  His concluding paragraph is stunning, \\"For a short while, a long time ago, we were like those celestial beings, arrayed in the higher realms, looking out over the heavens, and we saw so much farther than we had ever imagined.\\"  He writes from the transforming magic love exerts.<br />The historical detail makes us believe that Stollman is an antiquarian of the highest order.  The devotional aspects of the Jewish Apocrypha give us a real feel of this community in Canada.  Stollman is masterful in this sense.<br />The story somewhat falls apart for me with the ending.  Trying not to give the ending away, we are asked to believe that Joseph was able to execute the story's final act without his mother intervening, Eva discovering this prior to her departure or returning to rectify it, or his brother discovering and making some intervention.  Perhaps I'm a bit too logical for the conclusion of this wonderful dreamscape.  Unfortunately, the ending is the only false note in an otherwise exquisite novel!  Even so, there are so many strengths here, that it is a great and pleasurable reading experience, one not to be missed.	2002-09-23
US	52562189	R3LPBX07V4HTA	031220941X	703979595	Soul Picnic: The Music and Passion of Laura Nyro	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Greatest Singer's Story	Those of us who have lived with Laura's music know HOW much she means to us and HOW deeply we have been affected by her music.  She spoke for the emotional soul of a generation, able to reach the height of ecstacy and the pit of despair within a few brief measures.  For me, her later work is as valuable.  &quot;Woman of the World,&quot; &quot;Free Thinker&quot; and the gem &quot;Sweet Dream Fade&quot; are also part of my personal soundtrack.<br />Michele Kort's book is excellent because it is well researched, thorough, and brimming with information.  It's weakness is that it does not read like a nice little story; so we have to work a bit to move through it.  But the trip is worth the effort.  As ardent of a fan as I have been, for some reason I was unaware of the Japanese release of &quot;Season of Lights.&quot;  To hear that Santana-like jam her band breaks into on &quot;Timer&quot; was worth the price of both &quot;Soul Picnic,&quot; the book, &amp; the Japanese CD!<br />One of the comments I most appreciated in the book came near the end, and is so true.  Richard Herrington of the Washington Post says, &quot;Lots of people were later compared to Laura Nyro.  Nyro herself was never compared to anyone.&quot;  Nyro's music was the benchmark of artistry, integrity, passion and wit.  This book succeeds in bringing that struggle to attention.  For whatever other shortcomings the book may have, for that I am grateful.	2002-09-08
US	52562189	R1YIBK5MI95GQ	0385502621	121774244	In a Dark Wood	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Can I Read It Backwards?	Amanda Craig's book \\"In A Dark Wood\\" is the first of hers I've read. There must have been at least five times in the reading of the story that I put the book down in disgust wondering how anyone as obnoxiously self-centered as Benedick Hunter could be the main character. Craig certainly was not shooting for a \\"Conspiracy of Dunces\\" effect. It wasn't until I got to the end, realized what the unifying issue was to the character, that the heartstrings open and you feel great for having read this book. Having a protagonist with mental illness is always an uphill battle because sane readers need a handle to hold onto. While I agree that this was a great book, it was somewhat difficult to live with this character for the duration of the read. For example, near the end of the story when Benedick is in South Carolina, he hangs up on his ex-wife and says that he's not bringing their son back; how does one have sympathy for a kidnapper? I'm glad I came back and finished the book. The fairy tales within the book are marvelous. It would have been fun to have the illustrations referred to also included. The unravelling of the family secrets propels the novel and gives it a nice sense of pacing. While I think I might have enjoyed this book more if I could have read it backwards, I do think it's one worth the read.	2002-07-20
US	52562189	RGEQSHJ7Y4Z5Q	0911560076	481528987	The Urantia Book: Revealing the Mysteries of God, the Universe, World History, Jesus, and Ourselves	Books	5	283	304	N	Y	Replete Work, Amazing Consistency	\\"The Urantia Book\\" is a replete work, incredibly consistent.  It's four parts begin with the total or superuniverse, looks at the \\"local universe\\" or creation of Jesus, then goes to the history of Earth which it designates as \\"Urantia,\\" and finishes with the most amazing, detailed and thrilling account of the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.  The book appeals to readers from all faiths, discusses the major world religions, and develops a sense of cosmology and sense of belonging to a friendly universe greater than we are.  I love this book because it has made God more clear to me, more certain.  It diverges from Christianity in three doctrines: atonement, virgin birth and Adam & Eve as the first humans.  The story and history of the Lucifer Rebellion are chilling.  For me, the 3rd part of the book that discusses our planetary history was the authenticator.  Things I can see in the world are discussed with The Urantia Book stating the causes.  Like the Pharisees of old, many are threatened by new religious writings as if they would invalidate the old.  The Urantia Book expands that which we have today gracefully and lovingly.  For the spiritually hungry, it is a MUST READ.  Read & expand.	2002-07-08
US	52562189	R3TJ4FINZJXLME	0805068023	653725377	The Sound of the Trees: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	No Need to Intrude	This is a replete tale.  The world created is one so austere and beautiful in its sense of nature, that we feel almost like we are intruding, like setting foot into the wilderness for the first time.  For all of its western themes and love of nature, this book is also deep because it explores several themes that one would not expect in a western novel with a male protagonist.  The first is violence against women.  Trude Mason and his mother set out to flee the wrathful hand of his father.  The flashbacks are poignant and sharp.  Set in the 1930's, it also gives us a feel for the powerlessness and desperation that would cause a son and his mother to flee into the stark wilderness to escape abuse.  The second theme which is all the more profound because Gatewood does not dwell on it is that of race.  Trude Mason, a young white man, comes across Delilah, a black girl, in the woods, herself abused, and falls into a long-distance attraction that propels the novel to its rivetting conclusion.  Trude's morality, upon which he neither dwells nor preaches, gives him the eyes of the innocent, aware of the evils of the world, but not a part.  It is this journey that so fascinates us.  When I got to the end of the book, I spent several-day break before I could bring myself to read the last two chapters.  I thought myself, \\"Well, you must be more deeply affected by this novel than you realized since you almost don't want to know how it comes out.\\"  The suspense is intense.  Gatewood's rhythm and pacing are distinct and powerful.  His minor characters from the doctor in the Masons' hometown, to Jane the waitress, to Trude's one friend John Frank, to the mayor and the thug Ralstons and well-drawn.  The Indian woman who concludes the novel with the great moral about how we carry a person with us in our heart, and although grief can be like a spike in the heart, we learn to live and go on, is masterful.  Take a walk into this wonderful world Gatewood has created; there is no need to intrude.intrude.	2002-07-01
US	52562189	R2N1W02G5W2PQW	0374177023	90301407	Instances of the Number 3: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An Affair to Remember	Salley Vickers explores the territory between men and women with tongue-in-cheek humor.  The novel has a European sensibility that Americans find amusing since we tend to get so agitated about sex, particularly the extramarital type which is in abundance in Iot#3. Here, it is a bit more routine, to be expected now & then; and while there is the requisite level of tense emotion, no one divorces over such a thing.  The irony of the novel is that it is also a spiritual search to reconcile the innate biological urge of man with the higher calling.  Peter, the husband who dies as the novel gets started, is a newly converted Catholic.  He arrives as a ghost to have some of those heart-to-heart meaningful conversations with widowed wife Bridget that a man just can't get while alive.  So as we learn about Frances, his mistress, and Zahin and Zelda, the Iranian love interest, we get an exploration of a life lived fully from the perspective of one who has already lived it and now experiences purgatory.  That said, the novel doesn't dwell on the philosophic parts; it gives the novel a substance beyond the superficial level of an assignation.  Vickers does a good job building a sense of character in the supporting characters.  Mickey the next door busybody who gets involved in a sandwich shop and the painters and sculptors who Frances knows are well drawn.  The relationship between Bridget and Frances is the centerpiece as the widow and the mistress become acquainted, only to have the relationship mirrored as Bridget starts a relationship with the married Stanley.  I enjoyed the novel's flow, it's bite-size chapters, and its British flavor.  This is one that makes you think as it entertains.  Enjoy.	2002-06-10
US	52562189	R2UQ2CTBUKDIK2	0399148256	187878313	Baroque-A-Nova	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Like A Song I Can Hear Playing Right In My Head	Kevin Chong's book is a fast-paced entertaining reading experience.  The premise of a faded once-famous Canadian folk singer's son coming to terms with himself as a young man and his parent's past works well.  The charcter of Saul St. Pierre is appropriately confused and ambivalent.  The father Ian comes off as a self-absorbed loser who would like to be a better man than he is.  I enjoyed the character of Leni, Helena St. Pierre, the reclusive mother who seek and shuns the spotlight at the same time only to walk out on the singing act and wind up in a monestary in Thailand and then commit suicide.  We see her in several flashbacks, but she comes off as a woman of mystery, intensely interesting.  The plot takes off as Urethra Franklin, a rap band, redoes the St. Pierre's hit \\"Bushmills Threnody\\" and causes the spotlight to be refocused on the faded folk act after decades of obscurity.  Complications arise as two groupies, Louise and Marina, come into the picture to seduce father and son, respectively.  References to other singers like Roger Miller, Neil Young, Joni Mitchell and Warren Zevon give the tale a sense of reality.  At times I was confused as Chong writes dialogue without identifiers that made it hard to determine who was speaking.  The novel is alternately funny and touching, but in the end somewhat an enigma, similar to the character of Leni.  Jackson Browne once sang, \\"It's like a song I can hear playing right in my head...,\\" and \\"Baroque-A-Nova\\" is similarly a good time if not a great novel.  Enjoy.	2002-06-06
US	52562189	R1U573972Y3JPU	0515052493	62183006	The Candlesticks and the Cross	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Czarist Russia Comes Alive	Ruth Freeman Soloman's novel is well worth checking out.  The historical setting of Czarist Russia in the late 1800's comes alive in this episodic tale of the Von Glasman family.  The issues of the status of Jews in Russia gives the tale significance and depth.  During the rumblings of the coming communist revolution, there was political intrigue with Rasputin and an anti-Semetic mood in Russia.  The Christian Church and the struggle of the rabbis during this period come alive in the supporting characters.  Ronya Von Glassman is the heir of a wealthy Jewish family with cultivated political influence.  She marries Boris Pirov, the blond strapping Tartar who swashbuckles through the novel.  Their passionate married life results a family of two sons with Boris' illegitimate son called \\"The Blond One\\" from a fling with the Tamara, the Queen of the Gypsies.  Son Igor goes to Manchuria for several chapters; and the Russian role in that Chinese province is the backdrop for more of the story.  This long epic tale moves well and has you constantly reaching to find out what happens next.  The characters come alive and stay with you, long after they've headed for San Francisco.  I had a great time with this book.  It's well with searching out!	2002-06-05
US	52562189	R1HB3FHPRQEUFX	0670894729	132185765	The Floating City	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Jewel of Jade	What a wonderful read this sweet book is.  At only 262 pages, it flies by quickly.  Short chapters tell the story efficiently.  I love books that transport me to a different time with different challenges.  It appears that Ball has done a good deal of research on the cultural and political history of Hawaii in the late 1800s.  The book is punctuated with a page at the end of each chapter that reads almost like a short history lesson on what was happening to the Queen as the story progresses.<br />The tale of Liv Norseng is one that also deals with the historical status of women as well as of the native Hawaiians.  We learn how she flees Norway, travels around the world by boat, and assumes the identity of Eva Hanson.  She certainly seems to have the sense of independence of the modern woman.  The events seem reasonable for this period of time.  Relating the fate of lepers in the islands, opium, the status of the Chinese, art and the political intrigue makes this a replete story that stays with you.  The love interest with McClelland spices up the tale appropriately.<br />This is a many-sided story.  The characters are well drawn and realistically portrayed.  Pamela Ball tells the tale with a straightforward yet picturesque literary style.  One can appreciate this book as a romance, a history, a political intrigue or a cultural snapshot.  It captured my imagination!  Enjoy!	2002-05-06
US	52562189	R3M331AL9OFFWK	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Godfather of Grim	My daughter puts the next book of Harry Potter on my reading stand every few months; and I'm certainly glad that HP is such a hit with her.  If not for being a dad, I probably wouldn't have picked this up.  The vocabulary may be a little simpler and there aren't four-letter words in every other paragraph so we can refer to the book as \\"adult,\\" but this is most enjoyable for mature readers.  I was worried that the books would fall too much into a pattern:  Bad summer with the muggle (nonwizard) parents, off to Hogwarts, adventure and back to the same.  Although the same framework is there, HP&tPoA seems fresh and exciting.  Rowling masters the suspense of unfolding events that make this a page burner.  The amazing bonus is how replete she is in writing her characters.  Snape the wizard/professor we've hated for two books already reveals more and deeper aspects of his character, the bitter egoist doomed to disappointment.  Dumbledore with his knowing calmness is a positive presence that pervades the tale.  Harry Potter himself is like a good lesson in positive self-esteem.  The most appealing aspect of the story is the bond that occurs between Harry and the Prisoner of Azkaban.  It's a wonderful illustration of the age-old saying, \\"Don't judge a book by its cover.\\"  With almost 1,500 reviews of this book, it's obviously incredibly popular.  The magic's not just in the wand; it's also in the writing!  Enjoy!	2002-04-30
US	52562189	RPWJ6IX0KC899	0345446763	60240299	Unknown Destination	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Hard But Rewarding	Maya Rasker's book is a hard read.  Tackling this incredibly difficult subject matter is brave territory which Rasker handles with candor and an icy eye cast with a decidedly European perspective.  The language of the English translation from the original Dutch flows well.  The flashback construction of the novel works fairly well with obvious gaps of information that Rasker dangles before the reader only to unfold them at precisely the right moment.  Perhaps because of the translation or the European perspective, the main character Gideon is one whose emotions we observe, sympathize with, but somehow experience from a distance.  The premise of the book begins with a man incredibly in love with his wife, Raya Mira, dealing with her disappearance by delving deeply into work projects and remembering the past.  Only the reversal at the end unifies this novel, explaining the seemingly unusual perspective of the main character throughout.  Rasker examines closely our roles as lover, husband, wife, father and mother; how one gives birth to the next and causes death to the former.  Gideon's learned love for his daughter Lizzy and his enjoyment of the role of fatherhood is the warmth in this otherwise chilly tale.  This is a novel for the brave of heart, told well, but a difficult tale to tell.  It will challenge you.	2002-04-26
US	52562189	R85X9RAK69ZUG	0446528404	672266413	The Fall of Light	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Celtic Eden	Niall Williams' novel is a joy.  He has taken us back to a world, amazingly enough, in the not-so-distant past in Ireland.  The episodic journey of the Foley clan does not come with a blazing climax, but is a replete telling of the tale of Francis Foley, his wife and four sons.  Consistent with the Irish history of that period, all four sons leave Ireland, two to North America, one to Africa and one all about Europe, especially France.  Francis' journey of discontent and pride washes him up on an island that becomes like a Celtic Eden of the heart, an asylum for lost hopes and dreams, a resting place for a Paradise lost.  The stories of each of the sons is touching.  Teige, the youngest, is the most closely followed; but each receives a special telling.  Emer the wife and mother also weathers years of isolation before reunion with Francis and two of her sons.  &quot;The Fall of Light&quot; is rich with Irish emotion, gypsy temperment, love, passion, and even the lure of the wild west.  This is a tale that gathers you in its grasp, holds you in its grip until depositing you on the last page.  Enjoy &amp; savor!	2002-04-16
US	52562189	R2N2SNM5W7RNCY	0679403612	809918350	Saint Maybe	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Into the Looking Glass	\\"Saint Maybe\\" is a very good book.  It's interesting because of the moral challenge Ian Bedloe assumes to help those children left orphaned by the death of his brother.  Of the reviews previously published, my experience of the book is closest to the person taking a \\"Break from Leonard, Grisham & Diehl\\" from August 1999.  I think we are outside of the character of Ian Bedloe.  Tyler seems to be writing this charcter from a view into the looking glass rather than really and completely embodying him.  We sense his grief, the strain of being a young man raising children, and his deep commitment to his religion.  We see him more from the outside, however.  What we miss on the inside is the peace and joy that his religious path has brought; and the energy the spirit supplies.  By not being as in touch with this, when we get to the end of the novel and Ian now has a child of his own, we see him as tired and acquiescent rather than as having another opportunity to serve the Heavenly Father by producing another potential child of God.  True, parenting when in your 40s may be a bit late to get started; but Ian's relgious feeling is more explained than experienced.<br />However, Tyler does a wonderful job of creating textured, complex characters who occupy the pages of the book for only a few chapters.  This depth of characterization gives the book such a sense of reality.  We are swept up in the tale of Bea & Doug and truly mourn Bea's passing.  The children, Agatha, Thomas & Daphne, are distinct people about whom we care.  Tyler's structure is episodic spanning three decades; so the novel does not climax as much as conclude.  All in all, this book tackles heavy issues, presents them with intelligence and humanity.  It's a fine work I certainly enjoyed!	2002-03-18
US	52562189	RQ4EGRNNXGBMT	0803725183	956102265	A Year Down Yonder (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Walking Down Memory Lane	I came to this book from the adult new novel \\"The Life Before Her Eyes\\" by Laura Kasischke which deals with a situation like Columbine High School.  \\"A Year Down Yonder\\" also deals with high school, but the contrast between the modern adult present with its pretensions and dangers and the youthful past with its quaintness and dangers was a deep contrast.  Peck tells a good story.  The greatest strength of the novel is the richness with which the characters are drawn.  Mary Alice and her Grandmother are at the center of a universe of well-drawn minor characters from the snobs at the DAR to the one blue/one green eyed Burdicks and the hilarious Christmas pagent down to even Bootsy the cat who goes through changes from a city cat to country cat mama.  The incidents in the book seem so real from the adventures with the outhouse to the tornado and the comical post office lady's posing for the artist.  Set against a backdrop of war, this book has a sense of being shelter from a larger tempest raging in the world; and has added significance for kids today living in a world with war and uncertainty.  With only 130 pages, this book breezes by quickly, but lingers with you long after.  Don't miss out a truly great tale!  Enjoy!	2002-03-07
US	52562189	R3UDCN7KTZGLFG	0151008884	472760741	The Life Before Her Eyes	Books	2	8	27	N	N	Mind Guerilla	\\"The Life Before Her Eyes\\" is an interesting idea for a book.  You kill off the main character in the first 6 pages and then spend the time wondering what her life would have been like, kind of an \\"Our Town at Columbine High School.\\"  Recall the John Lennon song \\"Mind Games\\" where he sing about \\"mind guerillas.\\"  This book is a mind guerilla.<br />If this were a reflection piece, I might have connected with Diana McFee and her life.  Instead, we're sent into the mystery of reading the details of her rather boring adult life with little clues peppered in that the whole thing is really a dream, kind of like \\"Matrix 2 At Jonesboro High.\\"  The emphasis here is the rather contrived technique of leaving the reader wondering about whether what they're reading is reality or a long 250 page dream sequence.  The real casualty is the character of McFee who comes off as an addled faded beauty queen concerned about the size of her breasts and her figure rather than one that generates much sympathy.<br />Combine this with some of the incidents: Timmy the cat dies; a black cat similar to Timmy shows up in Diana's bedroom; we spend a chapter & a half on whether this is really Timmy or not.  So?  Diana looks at 2 young people swimming nude and making love in the neighbor's pool; she agonizes over her attitude while taking voyeristic peeks; finally chapters down the road she opens the window and shouts at them only to find it IS the neighbors.  So?  At the end of the book, she spends 3 chapters wandering around a zoo trying to find her daughters, repeatedly forgetting that she's lost them, bumping into nuns and teachers and communing with an elephant.  So?<br />This book handles a difficult subject of teen violence in our schools.  The best of authors would have a difficult time treating this with the sensitivity needed to make this topic work.  Instead, Kasischke plays a book-long mind game at the expense of any real story or proximity to its characters.<br />I give this book two stars because the dust jacket is colorful and convinced me to read it.  Don't judge a book by its cover!two stars because the dust jacket is colorful and convinced me to read it.  Don't judge a book by its cover!	2002-02-28
US	52562189	RHARID2LGTJEC	0899661629	844993609	Summerhills	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Romantic Days in Scotland	D.E. Stevenson's &quot;Summerhills&quot; was first published in 1956.  46 years later, it's a bit dated in the sweetest of ways, much like a literary version of &quot;Gosford Park.&quot;  One of the deepest controversies lies with the tutor hired at the country estate of Amberwell insisting on being called by her first name &quot;Georgina.&quot;  I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.  It's a quick read, the story makes sense, the leads fall in love and the skies are blue.  The main character, Roger Ayrton, is a wealthy estate owner whose first wife Clare died, leaving him with a young son lovingly raised by his sister Nell on their estate while he's off serving in the military.  Stephen, the boy, is the sweetest of young sprouts, not spoiled by wealth or scarred by the loss of his mother.  Roger decides to finance the start of a nearby school for boys called Summerhills.  We get taken to Rome for a couple chapters where Roger must rescue the disagreeable Aunt Beatrice who's fallen ill, only to run into Dennis who turns out to be Nell's true love.  Through Nell's romance, Roger reawakens the need for a woman in his life.  This is a pastoral world.  The men have no eyes or interest for any other woman than their true love.  If you're addicted to realism, you'll probably want to seek a more modern tale.  But if you'd like to take a sojourn where hearts were still true and skies are still blue, you'll enjoy Summerhills in Scotland.	2002-02-20
US	52562189	R26KZ3Y8WAK9ON	1560543701	798662165	Copper Crown	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Copper Crown: A Jewel	I came to Copper Crown after first reading Lane's second book, The Unfastened Heart.  Both books share amazing women characters.  In both, the men are decidedly imperfect while the women are fully fleshed with rich detail.  Copper Crown is episodic in construction with no huge climax at the end, but a great sense of journey.  Cass, through whose eyes we hear the story, is a practical girl who we come to fully love.  She sees the world with a second sight that can also see into the spirit world.  We see almost a parallel universe of spirit figures who inhabit and intertwine with the living.  The story is also remarkable in the sense of friendship that we taste between Cass who is white and her best friend Allie who is black.  With a story that spans 1913 to 1932, we see a friendship unusual for its time and a book with the great moral that we ought to consider people first as persons rather than judging by the color of our skin.  The minor characters are good too, although the men are much more loosely drawn.  Skeet, the dining house owner who first hires Cass, is probably the clearest, however unpleasant.  Lloyd, the artist who repaints one canvas over & over, was also a favorite of mine, however brief his appearance.  If you've ever watched the series \\"Any Day Now\\" with Annie Potts on tv, you might see a similarity here.  This book is a good story, an excellent journey, and a friend you hate to part with at the end.  Enjoy!	2002-02-15
US	52562189	R1V2VORNQOPH4Z	0374114056	892391403	Black Oxen: A Novel	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Episodic Sludge	There are some good things about this novel.  Specific episodes in the book take off and you find yourself burning 15 pages to find what happened.  Some of the characters are interesting and unique.  The construction is episodic with story lines cut and pasted like reading a painting from the cubist school.  Chunks of the story are cut out and displaced into other parts of the story, creating a disjointed reading experience.  This might have been a successful artistic technique if it weren't also weighed down by a huge cast of characters, so large that the publisher had to print a whole listing before you get to the first chapter.  To complicate this, some of the characters are known by different names which also change depending on the timeline that is also cut and distributed throughout the story.  To comlicate this, characters go from being homosexual to bisexual; so you have to identify who it is, what name they're going by, and whether they like guys or gals at the moment.  In short, this book is extremely confusing.  Knox needs a new editor; this relationship did not work well.  Here are some examples of how the story didn't follow through for me.  There is a whole segment on how a girl loves her horse.  So, of course, two characters feel it's their mission to find the elusive horse and dismember it.  They get naked, hack up the horse, bury it, wash in a stream, one guy tries to seduce the other only to have the other one try to kill himself, then the girl shows up, they get out and a flood comes, the dismembered horse floats by, and the story line is dropped.  What's the point?  To complicate these matters, there are secret societies whose members are unidentified.  At one point, the characters are at a funeral.  Rather than being affected by the sorrow in the scene, I was trying to remember who it was that died and what her relationship was to the people at the funeral.  At the end, someone tells Carme that she's a mother, but I could never figure out who was speaking.  After this book, I felt like I needed a study group to figure out what went on.  Unfortunately, for all its promise, the read is not worth the effort.s speaking.  After this book, I felt like I needed a study group to figure out what went on.  Unfortunately, for all its promise, the read is not worth the effort.	2002-02-05
US	52562189	R394V9NY06F50V	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	4	6	11	N	N	A Compendium of Kumquats	As the typical Gemini, I understand both the reviews that hate this book &amp; the ones that love it.  I hated it for the first 100 pages.  Ignatius Reilly is such a self-centered, unattractive character that I wondered why anyone would write a 462 page book about him.  And in truth, he doesn't change from the beginning to the end of the book.  Is he insane or the classic iconoclast?  What Toole does brilliantly in this book is swirl a universe of minor characters and absurd events around Iggy.  The minor characters are extremely well defined from the mother to Santa the matchmaker to Dorian Greene the gay blade to Mancuso the addled policeman that we delight in the world that seems to swirl around Ignatius, just outside his much touted &quot;worldview.&quot;  If you hated this book, you're absolutely right because the main character takes the word &quot;jerk&quot; to a whole new level.  If you loved this book, you're also absolutely right because it is a story rich in detail, fresh in its outlook, even several decades after it was written.  This is a book that challenges us, tries our patience, and rewards us with a glimpse into the alternate universe known as New Orleans.  Good luck!	2002-01-15
US	52562189	R3R7VF2GVESMPO	0375726497	715580660	What's Not to Love?: The Adventures of a Mildly Perverted Young Writer	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Man with the Chipper Zipper	Reading &quot;What's Not to Love&quot; is like travelling with Walter Middy to a sex shop or getting to know the secret life of Woody Allen.  Jonathan's amazing talent for relating things with understated humor and matter-of-fact delivery that most people would be embarrassed to admit they've thought about is the unity in this wildly funny book.  How many guys actually talk about their fears of getting gas when making love to a woman for the first time?  There's nothing less romantic than a little flatulence.  And who could relate with such humor things like colonics, penile warts, or cataloging the most curvaceous waitresses while on holiday?  Not a book for prudes or those who think the spiritual is at war with physical, this is an endearing ride through quite personal, brilliantly related sexual insecurity.  I could call Jonathan the man with the chipper zipper.  Don't miss out on this extraordinary tail.  :)	2001-12-12
US	52562189	R20BSIFVGA9VPL	067103619X	690095340	Lake News	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Wholesome Pastoral Romance	Barbara Delinski has written a good popular novel.  It deals with issues of freedom of the press and the ethical reporting of news.  However, there are no great universal truths which immortalize the work, nor complex character development to make the work memorable, and the ends tie up neatly to conclude the story making it less than lifelike.  This would be a great movie-of-the-week for Kim Delaney (Philly/NYPD Blue)!  I loved the fact that Lily loves singer Carole King and sings &quot;Tapestry,&quot; &quot;Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow&quot; and &quot;Natural Woman&quot; which are also favorites of mine.  Given all of that, I enjoyed reading this book very much.  I loved John's falling for Lily, Poppy's discovery of romance and the reconciliation between mother and daughter.  As one reviewer commented, Delinski is excellent at creating the sense of place of Lake Henry and the social atmosphere of a small community in New England.  In the end, while it might be possible to criticize the book for what it isn't, I enjoyed it for what it is, a wholesome pastoral romance.  This is a sweet read most will enjoy!	2001-11-21
US	52562189	R329O3WQV0GONS	0375506365	433630215	Ever After: A Novel	Books	2	4	5	N	N	My Bad	Edwardo Jackson shows some potential.  There is a wonderful love letter that Nick writes to Jasmine that is a beautiful romantic letter.  (Guys without imaginations who want to impress their girls will probably be copying passages of it for romantic Valentine's Day cards.)  The book falls short in that the main character is so superficial.  Nick is completely self-involved.  While he has wonderful qualities we applaud like wanting to be a family man and find the right woman with whom he can fall deeply and everlastingly in love, his lack of kindness to the other women in the book whose romantic relationships with him don't work out shows that he only has capacity to care about people who care about him.  This selfishness makes the ending of the book such a let down.  Maybe this is &quot;my bad&quot; to say so, but this book might work well as a personal diary, but why publish?  Because both the author and the main character went to Morehead College and both are also actors, it's reasonalbe to assume there must be a close relationship between Edwardo and Nick.  This could have been a really good story if there were a story, but nothing really happens.  If you only read one book this year, this will be the best book you've read all year!	2001-11-08
US	52562189	R26K8VTI918G4I	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Into the Mystic	What a joyful, powerful and well-told tale!  This book is so well written, it seems to flow like a river.  I enjoyed the calmness of the way the story was told.  Since it was related by a grown Ruben about childhood events, we feel the loving way the story unfolds.  The chapter near the end &quot;Be Jubilant, My Feet&quot; is one of the most beautifully written pieces about a journey into the mystic that I have read.  I particularly enjoyed the certain calmness of Jeremiah's faith that anchors the story and  characters.  This made the story real for me: the way faith doesn't keep you from hardship, but sees you through it.  My only quibble is about what isn't in the book -- what kind of mother would leave her children to marry a posh doctor and not return when they are otherwise orphaned?  I loved the sense of journey in this book, that life is a path peopled by wonderful folks like sister Swede and Roxana.  I believed the minor characters such as the bullies whose demise ignite the action, Mr. Lurvy the mooching salesman and Mr. Holgren the pompous principal.  Each of these are perfect small town portraits.  The sense of place in the Dakota badlands transports you there.  &quot;Peace Like a River&quot; is truly a special book, one you will not want to miss.	2001-10-23
US	52562189	RXE2WK6JQG5H7	1579620302	445299019	The Cosmology of Bing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tale of Unrequited Lust	Cullin's &quot;Cosmology of Bing&quot; is quick read.  It is filled with insight on how unrequited longing cripples happiness.  The silent character of the novel, Susan, sits like the Greek chorus, observing events and making comment via her poetry, which is quite beautiful and good.  The mixing of the two forms, poetry and fiction, is a major accomplishment of this smart novel.  The subplot of Nick's adventures in college with the gang of pie throwers who attack the Christian right with cream pies is marvelous diversion.  Bing Owen comes across as the bisexual counterpart of George in &quot;Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe,&quot; an emotionally stunted alcoholic aging professor who has substituted outward propriety to mask inward anger and longings.  Where the novel is weak for me is that Bing is so humanly flawed that he's not likeable.  Nick's naieve association with the professor reads well, and is counterpointed by Nick's relationship with his soulmate/roommate Takashi.  Cullin has created a wonderful tale, a bit on the dark side, that explores the inner emotional landscape, and keeps it fun with the surrounding events of college pranks.  This is a very good book; one you won't want to miss.	2001-10-08
US	52562189	R2WD0QSQ521LEG	0679435913	602238450	Dombey and Son (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dombey &amp; Daughter	I saw a first edition of this book at the home of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's relatives when I was on vacation in Montego Bay, Jamaica.  Never having heard of it, I decided to check it out.  Reading 155 years after it was written in 1846, it is interesting to note differences in the writing style to our modern authors.  I imagine people didn't want books to end back then because there wasn't tv, movies or other distractions.  So this book is very looooong!  It's not unusual for sentences to have 12 clauses with lots of commas -- the point being that it does not read quickly.  However, it is a well constructed tale, with details presented early on tied up by the end of the book.  Particularly interesting to me was the comment it makes on the role of women and how much the women's movement that was to come was needed.  Paul Dombey is a business man so set on his company and its interests, that he desires a son to carry on above all else.  His disregard and detachment from his daughter is almost incredible to me.  As a father of a daughter whom I love so dearly, I almost can't conceive of this man's behavior.  Indeed, Dickens excludes us from most of Dombey's emotional life.  We see events swirl around him, but never get much into his head until the end.  My favorite character is the second wife Edith.  She stands so proud, so uncompromising, that it's hard to imagine her ever marrying Dombey in the first place.  Her desire to be treated as a person, not as a fixture or piece of property, is so noble that our hearts go out to her and flee with her that night that she runs from Dombey.  The daughter Florence is almost too good to be true.  Just once, I wanted her to answer an adult with &quot;Whatever,&quot; or &quot;I don't want to talk about it,&quot; that it made me feel as if she were from a different century.  We certainly rejoice for her happiness as she finds true love with her husband and becomes a mother herself.  The book is populated with wonderful supporting characters.  The spinster Miss Tox, the social climbing sister Mrs. Chick, the dastardly Carker, and of course the angelic young son Paul who is almost too good to last too long.  While this book may rest on your nightstand for a while before you finish, it is well worth the time investment reading one of Dickens' lesser known but excellent tales.  Enjoy!g characters.  The spinster Miss Tox, the social climbing sister Mrs. Chick, the dastardly Carker, and of course the angelic young son Paul who is almost too good to last too long.  While this book may rest on your nightstand for a while before you finish, it is well worth the time investment reading one of Dickens' lesser known but excellent tales.  Enjoy!	2001-10-01
US	52562189	R2JG5DINBBP4PJ	1565122976	198299019	Eddie and Bella	Books	4	2	2	N	N	On the Road with Bella &amp; Eddie	This book is alternatingly heart-warming and frustrating, but isn't that life?  Bella is a beautiful earth mother to whom Eddie is attracted like no other.  Her drug-induced behaviors lead them to split, but he carries a torch for her.  The book has some interesting levels to it.  Eddie is raised with an insensitive father who refers to him a &quot;numb nuts,&quot; gets spirituality from a New Age conquest, and then rejects God altogether.  Bella goes through a series of relationships, and eventually pulls her life together.  This is a wonderful episodic adventure.  The book gives you the feeling that we are on a life path whether or not we are aware of it.  It is a great tale recognizing that sometimes it takes time to pull your life together.  Enjoy this one.  It's a fast fun read!	2001-08-15
US	52562189	R1G8UYSK2J8PYX	0786866802	290198458	Goats	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suburban Animal Farm	Poirier has written a very enjoyable book, &quot;Goats.&quot;  Ellis is an interesting teen protagonist.  He comes across as quite mature in some respects, and typically adolescent in others.  Javier the Goat Man is a great iconoclast who walks to a different drummer, reggae style.  Wendy, Ellis' mother, is superbly suburban, demontrating the quintessential confusion of the New Age.  Her latest live-in boyfriend, Bennett, is a smarmy villain who turns tricks with geriatric men and women while living off his girlfriend and criticizing the Goat Man for staying rent-free in the pool house.  His underage sister Aubrey who seduces the Goat Man -- not a difficult task -- and then exacts revenge when spurned is delightfully self-centered.  Ellis and his high school boarding buddy Barney get into some peculiar situations like the dope buy with a guy who turns out to want something other than their money.  Last but not least are the goats themselves.  Lance with his kingly goatliness (I created a new word) and stubborn Frieda who loves Ellis but won't obey the Goat Man are as defined personalities as the human characters, kind of a suburban animal farm.  I had one problem understanding why Goat Man suddenly became so harsh with Ellis on the walk which lead to the climactic event.  It didn't seem to be hinted at in his character and so came across to me as contrived.  However, this book is a quick read, alternately touching and humorous.  (It was ironic for me personally that I finished reading the book on a trip to Jamaica where goat meat has substantially replaced beef in demand!)  I can't say whether or not this is great literature, but it sure was fun!	2001-08-15
US	52562189	R2JXLY21WJVHGJ	0374155755	457053862	Fixer Chao	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A World Without Good Guys	Han Ong has a fresh writing style.  The masquerade of William Paulinha as William Chao, a Feng Shui expert, takes us into the culture of wealth, artifice and superficiality.  As the plot masterminded by Shem who spots William at a dive bar unfolds, we are presented with a world where even the nicer folks are bent on revenge.  The issues of rascism where Filipinos are treated as second-class citizens and actresses are forced to take roles where they grunt in topless costumes on Broadway is contrasted with the differing Asian perceptions of Master Chao who passes himself off as Chinese although he is Filipino. What William's being gay contributed to the novel eluded me, other than a love-hate relationship with one of the characters, Kendo, the wealthy son of one of Chao's marks.  The idea of using Feng Shui negatively to harm was a unique approach.  The novel works well as a darker piece, but is frustrating because there is no real goodness.  For someone who is not a crook, it's hard to identify with the characters.  Ong does have a good command of story, language and pacing.  You will enjoy the unmasking of motives as the novel unfolds.	2001-07-26
US	52562189	R2EODN024DKBUR	0871138182	917956353	Truth and Bright Water	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Mystical or Merely Muddy?	This novel didn't work well for me.  I agree with the other reviewer's praise for Thomas King's great way with language and description.  We do indeed get the picture painted of the towns of Truth and Bright Water.  The incidents in the story such as the buffalo run where tourists shoot buffalo with paint pellet guns on motorcycles are interesting.  I failed to connect with this book because of the lack of resolution in the plot.  Tecumseh's mother keeps disappearing for days on end, mysteriously and without explanation.  At the end of the book, the only explanation I could come up with was that she was in play rehearsals for Snow White.  The irony of Snow White as play produced by Indians is wonderful, but what play rehearsal lasts days; and what mother wouldn't tell her son where she's going?  Throughout the novel, we wonder whether Tecumseh's mother and father will reunite.  At the conclusion of the novel, this relationship is as fuzzy as it was during the novel; so why did King repeatedly bring it up?  We also wonder at the mystery of Aunt Cassie and the suitcase with baby clothes.  Is she pregnant?  At the end, she burns the clothes and that's all we know about that.  Cousin Lum is kicked out of his house by his abusive father Franklin.  Neither his aunt nor uncle go and help the boy.  They leave him to live under a bridge with wild dogs.  Like King, I'm also a Native American hybrid; and I seek out good Native American literature like Eden Robinson's first novel Monkey Beach.  This book has great characters, the incidents are interesting, but the plot is like a train that goes nowhere.  Was that the point?	2001-07-05
US	52562189	RGDQKDDINTPF4	0385472943	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Happy Easter	Grisham is excellent at setting up suspense.  The pacing of the book is remarkable as each new chapter reveals a bit more of the story.  The supporting characters are particularly memorable.  Hoppy, the husband of juror Millie, goes through such anguish in the real estate scam set up by the tobacco company that it really touches your heart.  But feeling the inside of characters is where the novel seems to fall more into pop fiction than significant literature.  Nicholas Easter, the lead, seems more like a mechanism than a man.  We're not given enough inner life to see if he's madly in love with Marlee and motivated by that love; or if he's simply the disillusioned law student trying to write the wrongs of big tobacco.  We see what he does and are riveted by the rush of events, but we don't feel what he feels.  The character of Fitch, the dirty-dealing, jury-tampering intelligence of the tobacco companies is drawn appropriately sinister and dark.  We see enough of him to be intrigued, but also miss enough of the man inside to really qualify him as an arch villain.  This book works well as a page-burning suspense novel.  With a little more insight into human nature, it might also have been a remarkable book.  Enjoy Grisham for his command of pacing and sturcture; he is a master!	2001-06-25
US	52562189	RIIM13I7HAD4T	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	4	2	3	N	N	You Could Lose Your Head Over This One!	&quot;O&quot; Is for Outlaw was my introduction to Sue Grafton and the Kinsey Millhone series.  The PBS interview with Grafton made me curious; and the dollar deal at the garage sale was an offer I couldn't refuse.  I enjoyed the detective who is very well drawn, not a perfect person, but one who tries.  The supporting characters including Cordia, the ex-husband's eccentric landlady, and Dorothy, the reincarnated cat, add spice to the events.  Each chapter lets us in on a little more of the unfolding mystery and made me want to read 3 chapters at a time when I should have turned out the light and gone to sleep after 1.  Even Mickey who we never meet comes through as a clearly-experienced personality from the description.  The ending was startling.  I wasn't expecting quite the level of violence.  It was thrilling.  It was certainly something one could could lose their head over!  This was a fast, fun read.  I think you'll enjoy it!	2001-06-15
US	52562189	RQK5DFQLHY84B	0312280548	473666240	Only Human: A Divine Comedy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	What If You Could Read God's Mind?	This is a stimulating novel.  Based on the covenant between God and Abraham, it brings the characters to life, gives them flesh and bone.  What would it have been like to be Sarai (Sarah) and married to a guy who went around talking to God?  How would a woman of that day react?  What if we could read God's mind and understand what the thoughts were that lead to the chosen people?  Diski weaves and intriguing dialogue between God and man, and addresses fundamental questions of existence within each of the human characters.  The book is intelligently written, witty, and keeps you glued to the page.  At only 215 pages, it goes by quick.  I think you'll find it fascinating with an occasional splash of humor.	2001-06-07
US	52562189	R2BY4QHIYOT1EI	0618073272	894291394	Monkey Beach	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bigfoot at the Powwow	Eden Robinson's first novel is as intriguing as it is fun.  The greatest strength was the detail with which she fleshes out each character, even those more minor characters.  Her brother Jimmy, her friends Frank, Pooch and Cheese, her cousin and grandmother, even Spotty the crow has a personality!  The incidents seem almost real-life like the father's ill-fated attempt to raise chickens.  These are characters who grow on you and stay with you.  The setting in Canada among the Indian population is fresh; and Eden mines the pastoral description to give a real sense of place in the book.  The mystical aspects of the story are intriguing, the forboding little red-haired man that shows up and sits on the dresser.  I was a bit confused by the ending, but I have my theory which I will grace you by NOT sharing here!  Read the book to see!  I think you'll find universal appeal, individuality, and certainly enough suggestion to keep you glued to the page.	2001-05-30
US	52562189	R1BD5W7F57JGF7	1573220620	242061023	Lovesick	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Love, Politics, Medicine &amp; Mexican Historical Novel in 1	This novel is a fascinating mix, a great story populated with fascinating characters.  At the heart of the story is the main character, Emilia.  She is a combination of science, intuition and emotion that more than holds our attention and whose story we are sorry to see end.  Her love life is a mix between torrid chemical passion with childhood sweetheart Daniel Cuenca and a more calm romance with medical colleague Antonio Zavalza.  I enjoyed being transported into the rhelm of instability in Mexican politics of the late 19th and early 20th century.  Daniel's passion for the political was a wonderful wanderlust.  Emilia's parents were also great characters: Diego the pharmacist and Josefa, a mix of practicality and emotion.  Several medical issues were also fascinating. One is the role of women in medicine and the difficulties of early female physicians to get education and be accepted.  Another was the development of medical theory with Emilia's research encompassing the herbal, mystical, massage, etc.  At one point the male doctors are amazed as her directness in asking a patient, &quot;Where does it hurt?&quot;  Another tidbit was excluding  women medical students from lessons on male reproductive organs; this highlighted a sense of history in a novel that spans years from 1874 to 1963.  In Margaret Peden's English translation, there is a good sense of rhythm and pacing.  This is an excellent novel that rivits our attention with the love story and many strong characters, and has enough historical, political and medical information to stimulate the intellect at the same time.  Seek it out!	2001-05-10
US	52562189	R2IWT5NFVX56XS	0380978725	418329284	Blackberry Wine	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Clash of Burgundies	Joanne Harris seems to have found her niche by adding magical elements to a story.  The secret to her success is that both the story and the characters would be interesting even without the magic.  In Blackberry Wine we have the main character, a writer, Jay Mackintosh (a name to suit the fruit motif), who seems to spend the entire novel finding out that he has a backbone and can stand up to someone.  By the time he does it, we love the guy and do approve of the values which motivate his final choice.  (I'm not going to tell you the end of the book!)  But still his act seems to be a passive aggressive one based on destruction rather than really confronting Kelly, his former girlfriend.  The supporting characters in the book are all outstanding.  Marise d'Api is a marvelous character, masterfully written, who develops as we learn more about her.  Even the flat characters who do not change such as Rosa the daughter, Josephine at the restaurant, and Mireille the domineering mother-in-law the are engaging.  I even loved the goat, Popette.  The scenes from the past are also populated with interesting characters, Gilly, Zeth and Brenda.  And finally there is Joe, this magical guy who seems like a blue collar mystic who can astral project.  The book has a good rhythm and pacing.  The alternating of chapters between the past and present give the story and interesting dual line progression which converge near the end.  I was glad I had spent some time in this world.  Although the main character's inner struggle is kind of like a clash of burgundies which didn't totally satisfy me, I think most readers will be glad to have read the book.	2001-04-01
US	52562189	R2B8PZVY6U6Q0V	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Growing Pains	White's book is an interesting journey.  I liked the personal growth of the main character, Austin.  He starts off as a self-centered shallow character, but through the experiences of his relationships with Peter and Julien, he grows.  This is brought home in the last chapter when Austin flies in an airplane with George, a character not too far removed from where he was at the start of the book.  Through this plot device, we get a &quot;circle of life&quot; feel and see how far Austin has come on his journey.  Early in the text, I nearly stopped reading because of some of the graphic description.  I'm glad I continued.  Of particular interest is the way our picture of Julien telescopes larger after his death through the description of his brother and grandmother.  We learn, as does Austin, about how he saw the world.  While Edmund White's description helps to make the locales in France, Rhode Island, Georgia, Florida and Morocco quite real, at times bogs down the story.  As a character study in growth and maturity, this book succeeds.  As a page burner, it wavers.  Ultimately, I found it worth the time.	2001-03-07
US	52562189	R192VT902NNX9	0812927362	751047265	Living Faith	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Road Map to Living Your Faith	Jimmy Carter has written a wonderful memoir using his personal struggles as a way to better live his faith.  The life incidents in the book are told so honestly that it is evident that here is a man who is dealing with his own shortcomings, but trying to live his life as he believes Jesus would have him do it.  Because of that, Living Faith becomes a wonderful road map for those of us who are also all-too-human but who truly desire to know and do our Heavenly Father's will.  I found the observations regarding the early years of his marriage candid and illuminating.  The wooden check good for one apology which he made in his wood shop and gave to Rosalyn was a great example of putting your values into action.  From this book, we see a man who is inspired by Christ, not shackled by dogma, and who sincerely strives to live the Word and make the world a better place.  I recommend this book as one that inspires and stimulates our higher impulses to do good.  Don't miss it!	2001-02-19
US	52562189	R26QB22JC9X2HD	0684873893	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship : A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Touching but Curiously Unresolved	This is a good book.  There is no denying the artistry and command Toibin has of both the characters and rhythms.  Most interesting to me was the change in Irish culture reflected in the three generations represented in the book.  The problem with having a protagonist like Helen who is emotionally icy is that it leaves us somewhere outside the story, emotionally detached.  There were, of course, episodes where Declan's illness was described that I found myself reaching for the tissues.  It was interesting to observe the changes happening in Lily, the mother, but I wanted the other characters to change more or be affected more.  Perhaps, in that situation, the best you can do is to cope.  However, the ending seemed unresolved to me.  We, of course, all too well understand what Declan will face.  But the relationship between Helen and her mother, and even Helen and her family seemed as potentially ominous as it did containing healing.  Maybe this is a very realistic life-work, a bit on the dark side, but I resonate more with people getting their lives together than with just more of the mundane.  In the end, my experience was that the book was touching, interesting, and well paced, but it seemed curiously unresolved.  Read it and see for yourself!  :)	2001-01-18
US	52562189	R1R4Q9SN6N2FTB	0140157077	698450855	The Uncle from Rome	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Tragedy at the Opera	I enjoyed this book.  Not an opera fan myself, it used the opera culture as a backdrop for an interesting tightly knit plot.  The detail used to describe Naples transported me.  The twists in the book, the double-life of Michael Ruane as a supporting opera actor and his assumed identity of Don Michel, the uncle from Rome, interweave to create an fascinating tapestry.  All of the supporting characters are well drawn.  Cross-dresser Piero with his wry smiles and penchant for betrayal was my favorite.  The Italian flare for emotion was beautifully illustrated in the Gaetano and Peppino, the two brothers fighting over the multi-layered Rosalia.  If there were any weakness in the book, for me it was in Michael's character.  He never seemed to know who he was, a man adrift in search of true emotion.  While this may be the point, it kept me distanced from him.  The only other thread that didn't quite gel for me was the result of the Curlew River Opera.  Not knowing whether it was a success or not seemed to mute one of the major subplots.  However, that is a minor objection to the volatile love triangle that is played out with Michael as the uncle, and the reversals that come fast and furious as the book climaxes in operatic fashion at the end.  Read and enjoy!	2001-01-05
US	52562189	R2U1T9FBUS4JGY	0452272904	467523771	The Unfastened Heart	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mystical &amp; Romantic	This is a beautifully written novel.  Love, with all its glory and pitfalls, anchors the center of the universe in The Unfastened Heart.  The women characters are so wonderfully written.  Mariela, the daughter who falls in love with the boy next door, is like a flower in bloom.  Her steadfastness in loving Addison is gloriously revealed.  Anna, her mother, is a magical creature, seeing and having faith in love and in her daughter.  Even the mother of Dr. Ettinger is a crusty old gal, full of spice.  The guys are the complete question marks, however.  How can Dr. Ettinger so fully fall in love with Anna, and yet so strongly cling to the notion that the girl next door is not good enough for his son?  It's a contradiction in character that is never fully explained, and makes the spine of the plot center around something which didn't fully make sense to me.  Given the difference in worlds of economics between how the rich and near-poor conduct their romances, I still wondered why it took so long to open this man's eyes.  From Addison, the son, to Cristobal, the two-timing stud Anna fell in love with, all the men are faithless; and all the women are faithful.  Given that gender lapse, this is still a beautifully written novel.  The language, Von Herzen's control of pacing as the plot unfolds gives the book a lyrical ballad-like tempo.  Seek this jewel out for its women.  Keep reading despite its men.  It weaves a wonderful spell of magic and leaves you wanting more!	2001-01-04
US	52562189	R2NJY9YZQJ2MV	0743406176	699235720	If Only It Were True	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fairy Tale in San Francisco	From beginning to end, I loved this book!  It is a short quick read that creates a magical romantic spell.  The hope that true love is something which surpasses our physical existence is supreme; and this book addresses that hope of the heart.  Because the book is set in San Francisco with a brief interlude to Carmel, it's seems SO American!  It is all the more remarkable knowing it is a translation from the original French.  Yes, there are small inconsistencies which the more literally-minded among us might interpret as barriers to accepting the simple story.  But the construction of the tale and its reversal at the end are great moments.  Enjoy this book.  It is a rare gem and a treasure!<br />[Note:  This is my second attempt to review this.  Should the other try subsequently turn up, sorry for the rerun!  But that's how good this book is that I waited 10 days and came back to try again!]	2000-12-19
US	52562189	R3FS3YDYE8D310	0312262434	275076262	An Unfortunate Woman: A Journey	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Coda to a Career	As the first book of Brautigan's to read, An Unfortunate Woman may not be the best place to start.  But as a coda for his marvelous career, this is a book not to be missed.  The importance of the book is not so much its subject or its undetectable plot, as for the facination of its musings and the unmistakable Brautigan style.  I always feel refreshed by the simple sentence structures and child-like observations when I read his work.  This book is no different.  I found an elegant bittersweet feel to the way life slips away, how our best intentions are diverted by life, and how we seem to accomplish a portion of that which we intend.  The sadness and lonliness that permeates the work is in counterpoint to the sense of wonder we get from Brautigan's style.  Sadly, the posthumous publication of the work points to the real ending of the book.  Richard Brautigan was unique as an author, one who will probably be underestimated in stature for a time, but one who touches our hearts as few others can and makes us set the world on its ear to see what's inside.  If you've read other of Brautigan's work, don't fail to see how the story ends...	2000-12-19
US	52562189	R3TC0Z5MTV7Z9Q	0708988474	872755987	London Lodgings - The Quentin Quartet 1 (The Quentin Quartet , No 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Making A Way In the World, 1860 style	Rayner's story of Tilly's progress from sheltered child to a woman who must make her own way in London is an interesting episodic pilgrimage.  The characters in the book ring true from Tilly's dominant father Austen, to her maid and nemesis Dorcus.  As a period piece which tells the story of a woman in the late 1850's and early 1860's, it is an interesting study on the roles of women.  When the fundamentalist lawyer visits and offers the opinion that women should never be allowed to own property or handle their own finances, it puts us in touch with how far society has progressed in the 140 years since.  While a bit plodding in places, I kept opening the book to read the next chapter and usually was surprised by the next development.  Tilly did seem to be a bit icy as a love interest, but the tale is engagingly told.  I found the book to be well worth the read!	2000-11-30
US	52562189	RW0L5M2D53RLZ	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Grizzly Allegory	Under the Skin started out as a kind of titilating thrill ride and quickly took a U-turn into a quirky strange world that quickly got stranger and stranger.  This is a book that I couldn't put down.  Reading it wasn't overly pleasant, but I kept coming back for just a bit more and a bit more.  Now that I've completed my reading, I'm intrigued by the ideas it presents.  I find the allegory on how we accept or reject other people and ultimately relate to them to be fascinating.  The human tendency can be to not see value in those with whom we don't relate to the point of regarding them as not really human.  Michel Faber kind of sets this idea on its ear and makes us look at ourselves as human from a most bizarre angle, the outside looking in.  Isserly is a great character.  I've already cast Ashley Judd as the star in the movie in my head.  I liked this book in the same way I liked the film Gattaca which dealt with genetic rascism.  No doubt that this book is disquieting and not for the more conventional reader.  But I liked it!	2000-11-14
US	52562189	R2QTOTWE5ZRCZK	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Starts as a Page-Burner &amp; Sputters to a Stop	This story begins to unwind as a mysterious who-done-it &amp; what's happening page burner.  Christopher Snow seems like an interesting character who packs a huge amount of experiences into one nighttime.  We can kind of forgive him for his one-dimensionality.  The climax seems to come midway in the book as Chris survives an attempt to burn him up in a fire.  After that narrow escape, the rest of the book seems less of a question of whether he will survive but how he will weather the events.  Both Chris and his girlfriend Sasha become murderers; and we seem to be expected to forgive this minor flaw easily because of the circumstances and because the people they kill really aren't at all nice.  But this comes to the heart of the moral dilemma of the book where we're on their side up to the point that it crosses the line of unbelievability.  The final problem is that to assign any believability to the characters, we have to accept the viral infection of the entire planet which would of course include the world of each of us as readers.  -- Hey, maybe this explains all the nasty politicians loose in the world!  They're really monkey-mutants loosed by Dean Koontz in his Fear Nothing book!  -- Okay, this was fun enough.  I got it at a garage sale for 15 cents; so I can't complain.  Your world will be complete if you don't read this book; although it is somewhat interesting as cheap thrills go.	2000-11-01
US	52562189	RMX28NAQ0SE8D	0813368154	191390753	Stepping Up To Power: The Political Journey Of Women In America	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Required Reading for the Grassroots	This book fills a gap in political literature and should be required reading for all those involved in politics at the grassroots level as well as numerous political science classes.  The emergence of women into the political mainstream was probably the most important political trend in the United States in the last half of the 20th century and is one sure to continue into the 21st century.  It is important not only because when we have men and women serving together in government, we have better government; but it is incredibly important to the status of women throughout the world.  This book is essential because of the importance of its subject.  In detailing her struggles in politics, Woods gives excellent practical advice and perspective to women politicians trying to get elected, women office holders trying to impact the political process of city, county, state and federal governments, and also to men to better understand the particular differences and benefits to working together.  Whether she is talking about her early struggles in the Missouri legislature or the impact of the Anita Hill hearings during Clarence Thomas' Supreme Court confirmation process, Woods makes these events jump alive for us and helps us gain perspective on the critical impact women have had and can have as partners in the governmental process.  This book assumed an added poignance for me because during my reading of it, the plane crash occurred that claimed the life of Missouri Governor Mel Carnahan.  It is interesting to hear Woods' references to him in this book.  Clearly, I highly recommend this book for all involved in the political process, both men and women.  As a man, we cannot afford to allow the talents of our daughters, wife, mother, grandmothers, aunts and friends to be ignored and unrealized.  The opportunity to now expand the role of women in government may be one which will have the most impact in improving our political system here in the United States and around the world.around the world.	2000-10-27
US	52562189	R3803VBOLQO6ET	0618021914	379888504	Her Infinite Variety	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Interesting but not Gripping	I found this novel interesting from a historical perspective.  The change in the role of women in the United States has been one of the most major points of progess in the 20th century.  This novel explores some of the issues involved with the emergence of women as a political force.  As a novel, the characters are thin.  Clarabel seems written externally; we are not drawn into her closely enough to be able to really feel at one with her.  As a result, the story is interesting, but not gripping.  I liked this novel because the main character is a Democrat.  At least she had that good sense about her!  :)	2000-09-26
US	52562189	R1PJOD19KD6J5T	0374191603	993250256	Lost Geography: A Novel	Books	2	9	12	N	N	More than just Geographically Lost	I really wanted to like this book.  It's episodic expanse of  multi-generational portraits were like looking in an old photo album of  family pictures.  Each character was interesting enough.  However, like  looking at the old photos, nothing much actually happened in the book. I  kept expecting that events would also lead to a sense of the profound.  Ultimately, this only achieved a sense of the mundane.  After reading  through these 259 pages, I felt like I'd labored through an 800-page  Russian novel or the collected short stories of Mavis Gallant.  I suppose  in what was supposed to be a true-to-life portrait, the sudden deaths were  to reveal the meaning of life rather than simply being jarring.  And the  ending left me clueless.  What was that?  What is one supposed to get from  standing in the window other than the book is over with the characters left  standing in the windows?  If there was a hidden profundity in the ending, I  totally missed it.  Perhaps this is a book that would resonate more with a  woman than a man.  If you spend the time with this, I hope you find it a  more satisfying read than I.  -- And if you get the ending, why not email  me to let me in on what I should have gotten?  BuddyBipkin@excite.com	2000-09-07
US	52562189	R1GYEGLDHLN129	1573221589	316714391	Light House	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Wild Romp	Wild, irreverent, this book reads fast and you miss it when it's over.  Tim Picasso is a great character as the young artist.  Simone the S&amp;M  date, Jesus Castro the gangster -- what a great assortment of characters,  each unique.  I loved Jonathan Ames' The Extra Man; and I'd put this book  in a class with that.  Have a good time with this gem!	2000-08-28
US	52562189	R20R6MQTG0PK9A	0805061479	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Macabre &amp; Thought Provoking	This was my second novel of O'Nan's after Snow Angels.  I think I was attracted to the book because a health situation in my family really made me get philosophical about issues concerned with dying.  Perhaps I thought  reading this book would somehow be part of a therapy for me to get a  perspective on the issue.<br />I found tremendously engaging the tensions  between faith and hope on one side and the reality of illness, death and  tragedy on the other.  I don't know why people die.  I suppose if God had  intended that we live forever on this earth, we would.  So the fact that  everybody dies ought to be a clue that this earthly existence is secondary  in the overall plan.  But when humanly confronted with death, how we cling  to life and to the lives of those we love!  This aspect of the novel seemed  so real to me.<br />I think I agree with the reviewers who wonder why the  main character didn't just get his family out of town at the first sign of  trouble.  I would.  On the other hand, there's one sentence where he  wonders if he had, whether that would have just meant death for Cousin  Bette -- and that doubt made me feel the character was less stupid.<br />The  macabre aspects of the story, the swirling descriptions of death and  conflagration are masterfully written, O'Nan the modern Poe.  Why the book  ended as it did or what we are left with after having been through this  journey, I'm not sure.  Maybe this is much the same way one deals with any  tradegy or family illness, we just go on if we have to.<br />In the end,  this novel whisks by as a brisk read, slowed down only by the intensity of  its subject.  The second person description is different and inventive.  Johnny Depp should star in the film.  I'm glad I read it.  Try it out.	2000-08-01
US	52562189	R55ULFMEVY78B	0517706814	43966828	The Law of Love	Books	4	10	13	N	N	To Touch Stars, Man's Reach Must Exceed His Grasp	This novel is brilliant in what it attempts to do more than in what it accomplishes.  Reading the customer reviews reminds me of a favorite quote from The Urantia Book, &quot;Many intelligent and well-meaning men ...  maintain that modern civilization could not have been built upon the  teachings of Jesus -- and they are partially right.  But all such doubters  forget that a much better civilization could have been built upon his  teachings, and sometime will be.&quot;  Esquivel's novel never mentions  Jesus, but is filled with angels and spirits who both inhabit and influence  the earthly plane.  We get so used to considering news headlines with  murder and war as reality, that we cannot imagine a world based on  &quot;The Law of Love,&quot; and so this book seems too fantastic.<br />To be  kind, we English-speakers must realize this is a translated work.  I would  expect that the choppy writing comes from language change from the original  Spanish.  The science fiction devices which can print out mental pictures  like photographs from plants as well as from past lives intrigued me.  This  is a great sci-fi detective novel, complicated by past lives, virtual  reality television, walls that can speak, and body hopping.  You have to  give Esquivel A+ for creative imagination.<br />The use of the pictures was  most revolutionary.  I looked at them before I read the book and was not  overly impressed just as art.  But the amazing thing is that when you read  the novel, the pictures are not illustrations of things previously  described, but pictures of past-life experiences that give you clues and  actually further the plot.  Remember &quot;a picture is worth a 1,000  words&quot;!  We experience the dream-sequence images along with the  characters as you read.  This was a new and amazing experience for me!  The  music CD completed the multi-sensory experience.  Esquivel is pushing the  borders of what it means to read a novel.<br />All in all, this is a great  book for what it attempts to do.  Don't attempt it if your mind is TOO  SMALL!what it attempts to do.  Don't attempt it if your mind is TOO  SMALL!	2000-07-22
US	52562189	R3GJ505QG939RS	0375503366	282741307	The Requiem Shark: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pirate Puzzle Piece	This book took me to a world of piracy on the high seas that I probably had never thought I'd revisit after Treasure Island.  While not exactly a page burner, it is worth the read.  Nicholas Griffin gives a enough sense  of day to day reality to the characters that makes you connect with what it  must have been like to lead these lives.  The historical detail and  research give a great air of authenticity to the story.<br />The great  challenge is how do you make a reader identify with a group of people who  steal and murder for a living?  The most interesting character for me was  Innocent, the Yoruban black convert to an African brand of Christianity,  who comes across as half savage, half mystic.  Even the Captain Bartholomew  Roberts' fear of the Almighty lent a spice of philosophic reality to what  otherwise could have been a very two-dimensional character.  Griffin lets  us in enough on these inner lives to engage us with the characters.<br />The  reversal at the end was for me an unexpected though intriguing finish with  the motives of Phineas Bunch, the cabin boy, who is introduced by the  second page, seems a minor character, and yet plays a key role.  I won't  spoil that surprise!  It's a good pirate puzzle piece.<br />I recommend this  book as a good read.  It is satisfying as an adventure, as a historical  snapshot of the period, written with enough twists and turns to make you  enjoy the voyage.	2000-07-10
US	52562189	R1ETJMNL9VJMYK	067103426X	812780287	I Pass Like Night (Contemporary Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Apple with a Razor Blade	There is a real sweetness about Jonathan Ames' writing.  Like Richard Brautigan, he uses simple sentence structures that allow us to experience incredible events with a sense of wonder.  The sexual subject matter  juxtaposed with the innocence of the writing style generates a creative  tension which illuminates the inner conflict between Alexander, the main  character, and the world he inhabits.  The image Ames uses is of Halloween  and finding the apple with the razor blade in it. Ultimately, that is the  universal characteristic we experience that makes the material accessible,  the incredibly human experience of having the good and the bad, the perfect  and the imperfect, combined.  I'm glad both &quot;I Pass Like Night&quot;  and &quot;The Extra Man&quot; are out in paperback and am looking forward  to Ames' new book &quot;What's Not to Love.&quot;  I wonder how he might  write a female protagonist.  Ames is fresh and well-written.  Enjoy the  apple but watch out for the razor blade!	2000-05-11
US	52562189	R300Q7TXP8ISYG	0151004714	4054666	The Last Life: A Novel	Books	3	1	10	N	N	Washes over the reader as a series of experiences	Perhaps this is a novel more for women.  Like a slice of life, a series of experiences do not necessarily equal a plot.  I found the characters interesting enough to keep reading, but had to wade through parts where  Sagesse was being philosophical.  She grossed me out with all the oozing  boils on her back.  Why wasn't her mother taking her to a doctor?  Much of  this story seemed a consequence of neglect or unwise love. Certainly, no  one prayed to God to help them through their anxieties.  Even though he was  practically a vegetable, brother Etienne seemed one of the most refreshing  characters.  Everyone else seemed neurotic.  The setting in Algeria was  interesting.  The idea of being an alien in your own county provokes  thought.  But as much of this novel as is devoted to this girl's virginity,  one would think she could at least have a little more fun losing it.  Maybe  you have to be a woman to get this book.  It was okay.	2000-03-21
US	52562189	R2E8AU3J3LR3GF	0671528173	841910202	White Star	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Better As a Movie Than a Book	I read this book for two reasons.  First, I read Keanu Reeves was negotiating to play the lead in the film version.  Then I came across the book again.  Two times in one week; so I decided I should read it.  Having  just finished the lyrical descriptive style in &quot;Cold Mountain,&quot;  going to Thayer's minimalist sentences was like shock therapy, food without  spice.  As a tale teller, Thayer's constructed a tight suspenseful plot.  As a novelist, his style is bare bones.  I think White Star could make an  excellent screenplay.  The love interest seems more obligatory than  inspired and it's action-packed.  As a novel, it's okay.	1999-05-11
