US	52562171	R2YEAEYTY6EGLI	185367530X	883086592	Cold War Hot: Alternate Decisions of the Cold War	Books	2	20	35	N	N	Alternate History-Right wing Armchair General Version	\\"What if\\" history has an inherent interest and it is not surprising that much of it deals with battles.  The writers of these alternative essays are all military officers and only one of them is a professional historian.  The result is quite deadly:  this is not remotely as provocative a book as Niall Ferguson's Virtual History because there is no real discussion of historical events.  None of the essays shows much interest in the relevant historical literature.  Whether it is the Berlin Blockade, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the various Israeli-Arab conflicts or the Afghan war, the authors show no interest in examining the scholarship on the opposing side's motives.  Carolyn Eisenberg, Bruce Cumings, William Stueck, Kathryn Weathersby, Jian Chen, Raymond Garthoff, William Duiker, David Elliott, Robert Buzzanco, Neil Sheehan:  none of them make an appearance. <br /> <br />A basic principle of counterfactual history is that except for the basic change posited in the \\"What if\\" you only minimally change the events in question.  For example, once you have Lee win the Battle of Gettysburg, you can't give the South nuclear weapons.  But the authors know too little about history to know what is a minimal change.  As a result there is little control over the author's flights of fancy, except their own prejudices.  As such, one possible alternative, nuclear war, never appears.  The chapters on the Berlin Blockade, The Six-Day war, a Soviet-Sino war, and the Yom Kippur War all ends properly contained.  One suspects this relatively happy result is because the authors realized a nuclear war would undermine the anti-Communism and nuclear deterrence they have devoted their lives to supporting.  Another author has Jimmy Carter winning re-election and thereby insuring the Soviet victory in Afghanistan, which involves both the Soviet Union manipulating India to attack Pakistan, and Pakistan under its despised military dictator successfully resisting.  One would think after September 11th, even American conservatives would realize not to glamorize the Taliban's patrons.  Peter Tsouras comes up with a strikingly silly chapter in which a Soviet invasion of Western Europe is stopped and reversed simply by flooding the invaders with good vodka.    <br /> <br />More seriously we have two attempts to refight the Vietnam War.   In one the war is easily staunched in 1963-64 because the Americans buy out the landlords, get rid of corruption, and get Britain, Canada and Italy to send military help.  Now where is the constituency in Vietnam who will both fight the NLF and allow the Americans to do this?  Where was the constituency in the American army and pro-war supporters who believed that both corruption was a problem and that land reform was a solution?  The second is even sillier:  the United States plans an invasion of North Vietnam and it works perfectly!  Now since the United States couldn't crush the NLF and the North Vietnamese Army after more than a decade in South Vietnam, if they couldn't crush them in the 1970 invasion of Cambodia, if their South Vietnamese proxies had to run away with their tails between their legs in Laos in 1971 and if the Americans couldn't rout the North Vietnamese invasion in 1972, why should we think they could easily beat the North Vietnamese in their own country in a matter of weeks?  If the idea was possible you would think someone would have seriously suggested it at the time.  Indeed, the whole article is strategically flawed.  The whole invasion depends on the idea that China will stay neutral, except the right-wing braggarts who might have pushed the idea in 1970 hated China, and could therefore not provide a reason why China would not intervene.  But then everything goes well.  The Americans have excellent intelligence in the North before the invasion (yeah, right); notwithstanding the major preparations for an invasion the Americans gain complete tactical and strategic surprise, and they decapitate the North Vietnamese leadership with a series of brilliant raids.  Why not just have a fairy wave a magic wand and make the North Vietnamese go away? <br /> <br />However it is the one paper by a professional historian, Sean Maloney, that is the worst in the book.  Desperate to make his native Canada a player in the imaginary Cold war, he has a major crisis over Quebec in 1968.  Everything about this scenario is silly.   De Gaulle is assassinated (by whom?), a left-wing government takes his place (how?  The Fifth French Republic has distinct procedures when a president dies), who're actually Soviet agents (who? When?).  The Germans agree to reunification on pro-Soviet terms and NATO collapse (why?).  One might think this is more important than anything in Canada, but Maloney has the FLQ launch a major insurrection and the Canadian government powerless to stop it.  Now to understand what's wrong with this, you have to realize that the FLQ were a small group of malcontents who exploded a few bombs, and in 1970 murdered a Quebec cabinet minister and kidnapped a British diplomat.  Once they did they were promptly crushed.  The FLQ had minimal popular support and Quebec society was not such that it would ever gain the limited sympathy that the IRA and ETA did.  The idea that it could ever launch a major insurrection that would not only paralyze the Canadian government but also require American intervention is a fantasy.  It is like thinking that the Weathermen and the Back Panthers could overthrow the American government.  Moreover, once after having concocted this idiotic fantasy, Maloney criticizes the Canadian government for not being able to defeat his fevered dream.  This book says little about alternative history.  It does provide some light on recent events though.  The authors show little capacity for self-criticism, blame civilians for making things worse, and have no respect for their enemies.  No wonder Iraq is such a mess.	2005-01-21
US	52562171	R3OT1UCPCBFBEQ	0393051188	192537793	Savage Reprisals: Bleak House, Madame Bovary, Buddenbrooks	Books	3	20	30	N	N	Peter Gay's liberal failure of imagination	Peter Gay has over the past five decades gotten a reputation as a leading moderate liberal historian, writing on Voltaire, the Enlightenment, Freud and the sexual life of the 19th century middle class.  He has shown himself as a moderate, common-sense historian with Freudian interests.  This book, part of the Norton Lecture Series, asks to what extent is great literature reliable history?  He looks at three major realist masterpieces:  \\"Bleak House,\\" \\"Madame Bovary\\" and \\"Buddenbrooks\\".  Why these three were chosen, instead of, say \\"Middlemarch,\\" \\"The Sentimental Education,\\" or \\"The Maias,\\" is never made clear.  Nevertheless by looking at the pyschological problems of Dickens, Flaubert and Mann, he gives a negative verdict for the first two and a more positive one for Mann.  He then spends a conclusion arguing against postmodernist nihilism and then praises \\"The Autumn of the Patriarch.\\" <br /> <br />Unfortunately, this book does not do much credit to either Gay's critical skills or his historical abilities.  Indeed, it confirms the worst opinions of European liberalism as being too unimaginative to appreciate the extremes of human behavior.  Gay also uses Freudian theory in its most unimaginative way, as a simplistic supporter of order who reduces all differences to someone's abnormality.  For a start, Gay's understanding of the books is not all that firm.  His discussion of \\"Bleak House\\" starts with the death of the non-existent character Richard Carstairs, whom he has confused with Richard Carstone.  Miss Flite does not expect an imminent judgement in her endless Chancery case;  in fact she confuses judgement with the Final Judgement.  It is not quite true that Mrs. Snagsby thinks her husband is having an affair; she actually thinks, utterly wrongly, that Jo is his illegitimate son.  Flaubert does not jump in one famous passage from 1848 to 1867, but from 1851 to 1867.  The gap, from the beginning of the Second French Republic to its end, is not a minor one, either historically or in the novel.  It would be mistaking a gap in American novel from 1861 to 1880, when it is actually starts from 1865. <br /> <br />A more serious problem is Gay's superficiality.  Given the revolution in literary criticism over the past three decades it is somewhat alarming to have Gay believe that Marxist criticism ends with George Lukacs.  He is prone to making sweeping statements about Dickens, such as that Gradgrind and M'Choakumchild are merely caricatures, or that Leigh Hunt wasn't really like Harold Skimpole, or that the portraits of mothers are mere lampoons.  There is no evidence or argument to support these statements:  just flat assertion.  There is a certain psychological superficiality as well.  There is an interesting discussion of Esther Summerson's and Agnes Wickfield's excessive virtue arising out of extreme guilt.  But Gay ignores the fact that of the unambiguously middle-class characters in \\"Bleak House\\", almost all are horrible parents.  Mrs. Guppy is merely silly and Mrs. Woodcourt slightly foolish in her Welsh nostalgia.  But Skimpole, Turveydrop, Smallweed, Mrs. Jellby and Mrs. Pardiggle are uniformly repulsive.  Vholes incessantly mentions his daughter and father to justify his vampiric behavior, Carstone's foolishness kills himself before his son is even born, while Mrs. Chadband is a cold surrogate mother to Esther.  Ironically the one middle-class parent who truly loves her child had her out of wedlock.  What would a Freudian analysis make of all this, or the distorted families of Clennam and Dorrit?  But Gay has no interest.   <br /> <br />Instead he sees Dickens governed by rage, personally irritated by the Law over an unsuccessful lawsuit, and somewhat suspicious of his mother (he does not point out that Skimpole is a more malevolent Micawber, and therefore a more malevolent version of Dickens' father).  \\"For all his protestations to the contrary, Dickens's commitment to the Reality Principle was at best intermitten.\\"he says patronizingly.  His main complaint against Dickens is that he underestimated the reforming intentions of good liberals like Gay himself.  It therefore rather severely undercuts his case that Gay says that the Second Reform Act of 1867 gave the vote to most men when, in fact, it did not.  He also criticizes Dickens for ignoring reforms that were starting right when he writing the novel, as if their success was assured and didn't need Dickens' polemic.  It certainly takes a certain lack of imagination to say that there were no Bounderbys, Vholes, Dedlocks, Barnacles, Mrs. Clennams, Podsnaps or Veneerings in Victorian England.  Gay's discussion of Flaubert is little better, and views his anger at the bourgeoisie as phobic rage.  Allowing for certain self-dramatizing moments on Flaubert's part, this strikes me as obtuse.  The July Monarchy was a narrow, illiberal oligarchy, notwithstanding its \\"liberal\\" elite; the Second Empire started out as a bloody dictatorship before it ended in ignomious defeat.  Here is a man who writes one of the masterpieces of world prose and instead of being honored by his country is put on trial for obscenity.  A certain contempt and indignation is all too well deserved.  In trying to refute Flaubert's picture of provincial Rouen, Gay notes that one man (out of 100,000) bought impressionist paintings.  Well, this is certainly a step up from Abraham, who had to prove five good men so as not to have Sodom incinerated.  Here one good man refutes \\"Madame Bovary.\\"	2004-09-29
US	52562171	R28MPR2WAX8TQW	0393058042	260858344	Juan Carlos: Steering Spain from Dictatorship to Democracy	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The Good King	Royalty demands sycophancy from its subjects, and this is especially the case for royal biography.  Notwithstanding that it doesn't take too much for people to realize that most monarchs are deeply unattractive people.  Whether it is the selfish, irresponsible house of Savoy so acutely delineated in Denis Mack Smith's Italy and its Monarchy, or the houses of Hohenzollern and Romanov leading their countries to disaster, or the fundamentally mediocre British monarchy as seen in the essays of David Cannadine, or for that matter Juan Carlos' irresponsible, shallow brother-in-law, Constantine II, the last king of Greece, monarchs are people who believe the rest of the world owes them a living. <br /> <br />In 1931 it seemed that the Spanish branch of the Bourbons had met its own well-deserved fate, as King Alfonso went into exile and his countrymen formed a democratic republic.  As Preston puts it, the royal family does not take exile well.  Hemophiliac uncles, morganatic marriages, adulterous affairs, a deaf and dumb uncle whose son will be used by Preston to make Juan Carlos' life even more miserable, it all looked most unpromising.  One detail that comes to mind is a picture of a four year old Juan Carlos in military uniform.  It was only after he had been standing in it for hours that people realized that his books were too small and his feet had been rubbed raw.  But on the whole this is a picture of Juan Carlos that is fairly sympathetic to him.  After he appears on the scene, there is little gossip of the Eurotrash aspect of things.  (Although we do learn that Juan Carlos accidentally shot his brother to death.)   <br /> <br />Juan Carlos, born in 1938, and his father Don Juan had to find a way to restore the monarchy after the Spanish Civil war.  The problem was simple.  Franco at the time made monarchist sentiments and many monarchists were among his followers.  The problem was that he had no desire of sharing power with anyone, and himself had little respect for the previous monarchy which had tolerated a limited parliamentarianism.  He suspected Don Juan might try to reconcille his divided country, and remove it from Franco's regime of divine vindictiveness.  The problem for Don Juan, who spent most of Franco's reign living in Portugal, was that he had little to offer and little power to use it.  Although much of the Francoist elite would have prefered to see a monarchy, they were not going to risk their power trying to force the issue.  And so for until 1968 Don Juan waited, endured Franco's condescension and lies, occasionally got angry, was separated from his son for long periods of time at considerable psychological stress for both of them, and ended up doing what Franco wanted.  Franco got the idea that Juan Carlos might be more ameneable to Francoist propaganda and so in 1948 he was sent to Spain and educated under Falangist tuetalage.  Finally after two decades of toying with them, Franco made Juan Carlos, not his father, his heir apparent. <br /> <br />Juan Carlos' prospects were not promising.  Being made heir was better than having to look over his shoulders at Carlist and other pretenders.  But now he, although of generally liberal opinions, was stuck in a regime that was firmly reactionary.  Franco had no desire to step down, and would remain in power almost until the very end.  Consistently he and his entourage took the most reactionary path.  Had his prime minister Carrero Blanco not been assassinated in 1973 by Basque separatists, the transition to democracy would have been much more difficult.  And even when Franco grew less malevolent as old age, senility and death came upon him (the last a process that took months to complete) Juan Carlos still had to worry about the reactionary entourage of Franco's wife. <br /> <br />And then Preston discusses how Juan Carlos managed to ease out the more reactionary Francoists from the cabinet, got the more moderate Suarez to make a transition to power, and, most dramatic of all, stopped the coup of February 1981 by making his clear his unconditional oppostion to it.  For this transition to democracy Juan Carlos is beloved by his subjects and the Spanish monarchy appears as stable as Britain, Scandinavia and the Benelux countries.  There are some points I would like to mention here.  For a start, although there is new detail, much of the storyline can be seen in Preston's earlier books \\"Franco\\" and \\"The Triumph of Spanish Democracy.\\"  Second, one should point out that Juan Carlos was assisted by the Spanish Socialist and Communist parties, who agreed to let Juan Carlos remain, instead of pointing out that he had no popular mandate to do so.  Third, it does seem unfair that the Spanish monarchy should get the credit for Juan Carlos' bravery, since the same crisis is not likely to be repeated again, and the absence of republicanism in contemporary Spain appears less as an act of gratitude than the whole post-socialist failure of imagination.	2004-09-25
US	52562171	R1DST6KT2FJIYR	0140441417	925590424	Sentimental Education (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	153	170	N	N	Of special value	There is a special value in \\"Sentimental Education\\" that puts it among the highest class of novels.  Better than Thackery, better than Stendhal, better than Austen, better than Balzac, better than Eliot, it offers something that Dickens or Melville, for all their virtues, do not provide.  Here is a portrayal of a society, where the author looks deeply and thoroughly--and does not flinch.  The contrast with Thackeray, whose sarcasms and coldness cannot hide a fundamentally conventional mind, is obvious.  But there is also not the self-satisfied amusement with its own proprieties that we see in Austen, or the something for everyone that we see in Trollope, or the sentimentality so obvious in Dickens, or the way the captain goes on and on in \\"Billy Budd\\" saying he has no choice but to execute the fundamentally innocent Billy, or the fundamentally abstract obsession with unity that we see in Eliot.  Here we see a story of a venial, petty monarchy, the hopes and illusions of the second republic, and its suppression and replacement by a new Napoleonic regime.  If many of the friends of Frederic Moreau are shallow and complacent in their \\"democratic\\" phase, that does not alter their fact that their opportunism and moral corruption is a gruesome business.  It does not remove the shock on reading the death of the one truly decent person in the book, murdered by a dead ringer for David Horowitz. <br /> <br />This is not a popular book in the English speaking world.  Frederic Moreau does not have the dignity and moral weight that a moralistic criticism demands.  Much of his time is spent wondering how to seduce Madame Arnoux or how he should snag \\"The General.\\"  Of course, French 19th century fiction is distinguished from its Victorian counterpart by a greater degree of sexual realism.  But the point of the book is not to discuss Moreau's apparently aimless life.  Instead the point is how there are alternatives that would give his life meaning, whether it be love, artistic creation, professional achievement, politics and a genuine interest in civil society.  Moreau fails to achieve some of these because he does not have the energy to get them, he fails to achieve others because he runs out of time, he fails others because he is betrayed by people he trusts, and he fails others because otherwhelming forces remove options from the tables.  Moreau does not fail simply because he is weak, he fails for reasons that most people fail.  And in that sense Flaubert shows an exemplary realism.   <br /> <br />And of course, Flaubert is the master stylist.  Who can forget his description of the wealthy opportunist Dambeuse \\"worshipping Authority so fevrently he would have paid for the privilege of selling himself.\\"  There is the perfectly controlled realism:  we do not have the cheap tricks and garish effects of middlebrow writers.  But we still have the poetic and the imaginiative:  \\"the smoke of a railway engine stretched out in a horizontal line, like a gigantic ostrich feather who tip kept blowing away,\\"  \\"The women wore brightly coloured dresses with long waists, and, sitting on the tiered seats in the stands, they looked like great banks of flowers, flecked with black here and there by the dark clothes of the men.\\"  \\"the warm breeze from the plains brought whiffs of lavender together with the smell of tar from a boat behind the lock.\\"  Moreau's passion for Madame Arnoux may be weak, but it is more real and more convincing than all but a handful of romances in 19th century fiction.  The political scenes present a picture that has almost no equals:  a left chattering fashionable platitudes, but with a leaven of genuine indignation, a right who covers itself in hypocrisy and lies until it can find the moment to strike.  And of course there is the ending, a discussion of nostalgia and lost hopes that many English critics find sordid, but is one of the most heartbreaking in all fiction.   <br /> <br />There is a complaint among people who should know better, like Peter Gay and James Wood, that Flaubert shows a certain unnecessary bitterness.  This shows a certain ignorance of history.  After all Flaubert wrote one of the great novels in world literature and instead of being praised by his own government he was put on trial for obscenity.  His contempt did not come lightly.  One could contrast it with Naipaul's, whose solution to the mediocrities of Trinidad was to move to a very different country and to be generously praised, by some for his art, and by others for appeasing conservative consciences.  Certainly Naipaul's path is not an alternative available to most of his countrymen.  Nor was Flaubert's distaste for contemporary life simply the result of the particular nastiness only confined to French politics.  There were things equally vile or worse in Trollope's Ireland or in the end of Reconstruction of Henry James.  That they did not perceive the same kind of foulness surely is a mark on the limits of their imagination, and a point in Flaubert's favor.  Sentimentality is often described as unearned emotion.  But in Sentimental Education, every emotion is well deserved.	2004-09-21
US	52562171	R1UZ07BOOL47VK	0300101155	779510763	God's Last Words:  Reading the English Bible from the Reformation to Fundamentalism	Books	3	21	25	N	N	What this book isn't	In order to appreciate David Katz's \\"God's Last Words,\\" it is important to recognize what it isn't.  It is not a history of the bible's influence on the English people over the past five centuries.  It is not a history of the role the bible played in English politics, English philosophy or even Anglican theology.  It is not a history of how people slowly developed a more critical attitude towards the Bible.  There are aspects of all three things in this book, but there are also important things missing.  For a start, this is not a book that looks at how Milton, Dryden, Bunyan, Blake or many others used biblical material for their art.  Nor is it a history of how the English population reacted to the vernacular bible.   <br /> <br />Instead Katz starts by discussing the growth of a proper biblical criticism in the Renaissance.  For centuries the Bible in the Western World was the Latin Vulgate, translated more than a millenium earlier by Saint Jerome.  There were a number of problems with this.  For a start, in the many copyings over the past thousands years errors had accumulated, and there was a natural desire to use a more authentic text.  Second, and much more importantly, the bible was never actually written in Latin.  The Jewish bible is written in Hebrew (with the exception of parts of Daniel and Ezra, which are written in Aramaic) while the New Testament is written entirely in Greek.  And so scholars sought to find a proper Greek testament.  Erasmus was a leading figure here, though Katz points out that when he didn't have proper Greek documents, he simply translated the Vulgate into Greek.  This sort of undermined the whole point of the exercise, but absolute accuracy was not that important a goal.  (Katz also reminds us that the very first translation of the New Testament into Hebrew occurred in the 16th century.) <br /> <br />After discussing Tyndale, Katz bascially skips a century, with only a brief discussion of the writing of the King James Bible and starts a somewhat meandering tone that the book continues to the end.  There is a discussion of sabbatarianism (Katz quotes a scholar who suggests this is the only English contribution to Christian theology) and the ubiquity of millenialism in Cromwell's England.  Then we go on to Newton and Locke, and how Newton worked on a proper chronology for biblical events, teasing out speculations from the contradictory statements in the Old Testament.  We get discussions of such strange documents as the Sybilline Oracles, the Samaritan Penateuch, and the Islamic forgery \\"The Gospel of Barnabas.\\"  We learn about 18th century scholars who emphasized the aesthetic values of scriptures.  We also meet the Hutchinsonians, at the time an influential group of scholars who worked with the fact that the Hebrew scripture originally had no vowels.  This led them to the crackpot idea that one could manipulate the consonants into saying whatever mystical ideas came into their heads.  The last third of the book deals with the long nineteenth century.  We get discussions of Milman's controversial description of Abraham as a shiek, controversies over \\"Essays and Reviews\\" and Bishop Colonso in the 1860s and James Frazier's \\"The Golden Bough.\\"  <br /> <br />It is important to recognize what we do not get here.  We do not get a full history of the rise of biblical criticism.  We get a discussion of the various impossibilities of the Biblical exodus.  But we do not get a discussion of such major issues as the authorship of the Gospels, the Q hypothesis, or the historical Jesus.  Indeed, the criticism of the New Testament in largely ignored, while such questions as the origins of Daniel or the structure of Isaiah get short shift as well.  There is some discussion of Hobbes, but Spinoza is only mentioned because Matthew Arnold finds him interesting, while the rest of the Enlightenment goes unmentioned (there is no real discussion of Paine's 'The Age of Reason').  Granted that much biblical scholarship occurred in Germany, we get only a brief discussion of Wellhausen, while less important Germans get more attention.  The book concludes with a brief discussion of Fundamentalism that does not really clarify its relation to other Protestants or to the traditions of conservative biblical scholarship.  The book is certainly well-documented, but the reader may well wonder what the point is.	2004-09-17
US	52562171	R24YJ568CB8XLN	1844670007	536734451	Silvio Berlusconi: Television, Power and Patrimony	Books	4	23	24	N	N	The Tale is Told of You	Italian politics since 1945 has often seemed too unstable and esoteric for most Americans.  Paul Ginsborg's short polemic about Silvio Berlusconi shows why people should pay attention.  The Berlusconi phenomenon is an amazing, and quite appalling, one.  From 1992 to 1994, it was revealed that the conservative Christian Democratic party, which had held uninterrupted power since the war, was deeply, deeply corrupt.  So corrupt in fact, that the revelation caused its disintergration.  But instead of the Right losing the next elections, a wealthy businessman came along and simply bought a new political party.  Silvio Berlusconi's \\"Forza Italia\\" was not a party devoted to political debate and discussion.  It was staffed by his cronies and devoted to his political cult.  With it he won the elections of 1994, even though he was himself deeply compromised by the old regime.  Serious allegations of corruption soon led to his loss of power and his electoral defeated in 1996.  But he returned to power in 2001.  Now in point of fact, the charges against him are more than just \\"allegations\\", as that infamous left-wing rag, The Economist, has pointed out.  Berlusconi has perjured himself about his membership in a conspiratorial, anti-democratic, quasi-fascist masonic lodge.  (He benefited from an amnesty).  In the seventies his keeper of one his (one-horse) stables was a notorious mafioso.  His personal lawyer, Cesare Preveti, has been convicted of 11 year and 5 year sentences for corrupting judges, though he remains free on appeal.  Berlusconi delays his trials to run up against the limitations laws.  He amends the limitations laws to render himself immune.  He changes the rules of evidence so that trials will be further delayed.  And when all that fails, he passes laws giving himself immunity, while seeking to undermine the independence of the magistrates. <br /> <br />This is bad.  And it gets worse.  For as Ginsborg notes Berlusconi is still backed by more than 40% of Italians.  His defeat in 2006 is by no means a sure thing.  Indeed he plans to become a powerful President of the Republic.  This despite his judical troubles, an anaemic economy, and support for a massively unpopular war.  This despite his failure to simplify administrative procedures, or start promised infrastructure projects, though he has reduced the penalties for accounting fraud.  Ginsborg himself is one of the leading historians of modern Italy, and he points out Berlusconi's origins in the Milan building trade.  He points out how Berlusconi benefited from the intervention of the infamously corrupt Bettino Craxi, who in 1984 ignored the courts and constitutional mandates for a proper broadcasting law to pass a decree without which Berlusconi could not maintain his broadcasting monopoly.  (He also points out how Craxi was the godfather of Berlusconi's child out of wedlock, and how Berlusconi comically elides his adultery in discussing the end of his first marriage.)  Although Ginsborg tries to be fair, there is not much to be said about about Berlusconi's media:  the absence of proper news coverage and documentaries, rampant bias in Berlusconi's favor, more advertisements than the rest of Europe combined, two-hour documentaries about stigmatic priests, a sexism that sometimes seems to have come out of Lolita. <br /> <br />Berlusconi is not a fascist, but he is a threat to democracy.  To be exact, he wishes to make democracy safe for the Right and for wealthy people like himself.  One should be wary of a man who claims \\"Better fascism than the bureaucratic tyranny of the judiciary.\\"  The party euphemizes the fascist past, with public places and spaces named after \\"acceptable\\" fascists and with Berlusconi claiming that Mussolini didn't murder anyone.  Whether it is the Bank of Italy, the civil service, public broadcasting, magistrates or the public health system, all have their independence and integrity threatened by Berlusconi.  Meanwhile he deals with Murdoch and his own media empire as if conflict of interest laws don't exist, which in Italy they don't.  His model polity is a world in which mass apathy is punctuated by his biased media and his political image, where people consent, but do not choose.  Ginsborg points out how this project is encouraged by the weaknesses of a centre-left which, purged of its Marxist past, cannot seek to mobilize support, which seeks to compromise and which cannot inspire with its technocratic biases, and which, for one reason or another, cannot attack Berlusconi's venality.  Ginsborg's book is not perfect (a law undermining magisterial independence is not made clear, while Ginsborg overestimates the influence of the late Canadian media lord Izzy Aspser).  But in an era with declining voter turnout and declining independent media, where media monopoly advances with partisan and unscrupulous conservative politics, and where the left, the centre, and the right-centre are too nervous and exhausted to resist, there are good reasons to fear that Berlusconi's Italy could soon be our world.	2004-09-14
US	52562171	R2KDA055K4UEEN	0393020304	271806854	The Dictators: Hitler's Germany, Stalin's Russia	Books	4	49	62	N	N	Point Counterpoint	If one wanted to do a comparative history of Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Soviet Union, then Richard Overy would not be the worst choice.  He is one of the leading historians of the Nazi dictatorship, with his books on the air war, Goering and why the Allies lost.  By contrast, his reading skills in Russian are limited, and his archival sources are non-existent, but he keeps a close eye on the scholarly literature.  What Overy has done is not write a comparative biography of the two men, but a comparative history of their two regimes.  He starts off by looking at the two dictators, and the circumstances in which they won power.  Then he discusses the way they ruled things, their utopianism and their attacks on religion.  He then looks at official culture, how they organized their economy, how they organized their armies, the way they fought their wars, their policies on nationalities and the regime of their camps.<br /><br />The result is a hugely informative book that provides the latest research on a whole host of topics, and presents a complex view of many issues.  Like many recent scholars he emphasizes the way consent, not coercion, undergirded the regimes.  He points out that the Gestapo had only 20,000 people to watch over all of Germany, including the secretaries, while once one removed the staff and the border guards the NKVD only had 20,000 people to look over the USSR.  Whether it is the Nazi campaign against the Gypsies (not as genocidal as the Holocaust), or the way each side treated the prisoners of war from the others (the Soviets come out better here), whether it is the hierarchies of the concentration camps, or the assassination attempts against Hitler, or the Communists' strategy against the Orthodox Church, on topic after topic we have a thorough, complex and well-researched discussion of the issue.  Overy also provides many striking details.  When Hitler came to power he promoted the judge who gave him an extremely lenient sentence for his rolein the Beer Hall Putsch.  Stalin loved hunting, Hitler hated it.  For all of Hitler's Wagnerian aura, his favorite opera was actually \\"the Merry Widow\\".  At the height of the German Eastern Advance, the Soviet Union could only call upon 23% of the coal output and 28% of the iron output of The Third Reich.  More members of the German Communist Politburo were killed by Stalin than by Hitler.  For their many minorities the Soviet Union offered 92 alphabets in 125 languages, and for the centenary of Pushkin, produced 27 million copies in 66 languages.<br /><br />Although he is critical of the totalitarian interpretation, Overy tends to emphasize the similarities of the regimes.  The dictators themselves, he notes early on, had very different personalities with the empty Hitler who lived only for mass charisma contrasting with the more gregarious Stalin who slowly mastered the party and had to work to achieve his cult.  The Nazi Party was more influential, and oddly more lawless, with Stalin's Russia too big and rural and illiterate to achieve the same kind of depth.  But both regimes shared a similar utopianism, and a similar hostility to religion, capitalism and intellectual freedom.  Of course, Overy points out that while Stalin was willing to use war as a tool, he was fundamentally defensive.  There is no question here that the Soviet Union was the victim of an aggressive attack.  There is also no question that the Soviet Union, with help from lend-lease, managed an amazing mobilization of its economy, in contrast to the Nazis who could not do so until it was too late.  Nazi racism was genuinely genocidal, while the Soviet Union genuinely believed in the diversity of its people, though that did not save it from outbreaks of xenophobic paranoia.  In the world of concentration camps, 40% of the Nazi's prisoners died, while about 15% of the Gulag's did.  But then most of the Gulag's victims were not political prisoners.  (In the Nazi extermination camps, of course, everyone was supposed to die, and at Treblinka, Belzec and Sobibor more than 99.9% of them did).<br /><br />There are some criticisms one can make.  Much of the case on Hitler's \\"anti-capitalism\\" is based on his rhetoric, or on gestures like the mass wearing of uniforms.  (David Cesarani's new biography of Eichmann suggests he was not the low-class beneficiary of Nazi social mobility that Overy suggests.)  Overy also relies of Herman Rauschning, a source Ian Kershaw's biography was much more skeptical of, while Richard Steigmann-Gall has pointed out that Hitler's Table Talk, which Overy cites to demonstrates Hitler's hostility to Christianity, has been mistranslated in key places.  The conclusion is somewhat mediocre.  Science is blamed, while Overy says the two dictators were united by illiberalism, a hostility to the \\"liberal idea of progress\\" and a hostility to diversity.  But both regimes supported some sort of progress, and the Soviet Union supported a diversity of cultures certainly as liberal as its predecessors or successors.  An emphasis on ideology as a cause overlooks the fact that one reason why the Bolsheviks were so dogmatic, cruel and intolerant was because there was so little purchase under Tsarism, the first World War and the Russian civil war for open-mindedness, charity and mercy.  By contrast, nothing in Germany's 20th century experience explains Nazi anti-semitism.  Nevertheless, this is the leading book on the similarites and differences of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.	2004-09-09
US	52562171	R28D1ESGFT8WJ3	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Charming, but only up to a point	\\"A Conspiracy of Paper\\" is both a historical novel and a murder mystery.  As such it is charming, on its own terms.  Benjamin Weaver, formerly Benjamin Lienzo, is a professional \\"thief taker\\" and the 1719 equivalent of a private investigatior.  Before that he was a highwayman and thief, and therefore has acquired a certain amount of useful experience.  Before that he was a professional boxer, and before that he was a Jew, who ran away from his stockjobber father.  Now he is asked to investigate the suicide of an investor, only to learn that the accidental death of his father was actually a murder.  In the course of his investigations he stumbles upon the South Sea Company, just months before its collapse in one of the greatest scandals in English history.  He must re-encounter his father's family, including his wily merchant uncle and his late cousin's lovely widow.  He must worry about Jonathan Wild, another professional thief taker, who is actually the leading criminal in all of London.  He must worry about the South Sea's great rival, the Bank of England, a baronet who lost crucial letters to a thieving prostitute, and several associates of his uncle's whose allegiance is unknown but sinister.  Twice he ends up facing a judge on (unfair) charges of murder, hoping he can find a way to bribe him, while worrying about the justifiable homicide he did commit. So far, so interesting.  And in all of this Weaver, who narrates the novel, speaks in the literary style of the 18th century.  He is not quite as lugubrious as Gibbon.  He's a bit more readable, like Fielding, though references to London's unsanitary conditions also remind one of Smollett.  Like both he has a certain wit.  Liss was completing a dissertation in English literature and students of period can guess from which monographs he got his details.  (I recognized a passage about tobacco workers from Peter Linebaugh's \\"The London Hanged,\\" while there is a minor theme in the novel about Jacobitism, a fashionable subject in 18th century studies, which will be more developed in this book's sequel.)       <br /> <br />But if this is interesting, is it enough?  The classic mystery novel, by say, Agatha Christie, combines extreme ingenuity about the nature of the crime, with a complete absence of interest of psychology or depth.  This is partly because nearly all mystery writers are hacks, and partly because if we could see the participants in all their psychological complexity we would soon find out who did it.  Well, Weaver certainly seems more ambiguous and complex than Hercule Poirot, and the coda to the book does sort of give it a \\"Chinatown\\" ambience.  But a closer look reveals that Weaver is not intrinsically more interesting than Christie's fastidious, pompous, unsympathetic Poirot.  On the other side of the equation, this is certainly not an elegant or cleverly conceived mystery.  There are in fact several complicated conspiracies invovled.  And while it appears more realistic for Weaver to stumble upon clues, to spend much time diligently looking for evidence with little result, to bluff his way to getting real answers, not unlike a real detective, it is dispiriting the way he actually finds out involves so little ingenuity on his part.  Moreover, the problem with conspiracies is that they are too complicated.  There are several gambits by Weaver's clients and Wild that are overly complicated.  And why does the actual murderer go to such elaborate lengths to get rid of Weaver, when there are much simpler ways of going about it?  There is certainly nothing of Christie's simplicity at her best. So without character, and without ingenuity, one cannot have great literature. <br /> <br />And there is also a problem with the historical novel.  There is such a gap between the present and the past that is hard for the novel not to call attention to it in an artificial way, in what James Wood calls \\"a certain desperate quality ot the detail.\\"  The problem is that Weaver, whois supposedly writing his memoirs several decades after the event, is not and would not have been writing a bestselling murder mystery.  So instead of discussing whether or not his father was actually murdered or not, he would first say this is the story of how I found my father's killer.  On first encountering the killer a real Weaver would point this out, not wait for hundreds of pages to reveal that fact.  In reading Liss' account we get a discussion of the 18th century English pub, check, the narrowness and dangerousness of 18th century English streets, check, a fashionable masque at a fashionable new house, check, a medical doctor who mentions the infallibly wrong-headed technique of bleeding, which Weaver wisely rejects, check.  In bringing the past alive, Liss forgets that Weaver would not tell people what they already know.  Meanwhile the subplot of Weaver's Jewish identity, while not clearly inaccurate, also shows no real insight.  There is a certain hollowness about the whole enterprise.	2004-09-09
US	52562171	RAFRKJE806AAC	1400042364	523547957	The Roads to Modernity: The British, French, and American Enlightenments	Books	2	80	155	N	N	A Chauvinist Enlightenment	For centuries Anglo-American conservatives have contrasted the happy fate of their country under the empirical, conservative moderation of their best thinkers with the ruinous fate of France under the disastrous theories of the Enlightenment.  Over the past few decades scholars have pointed out this is a rather simplistic version of events.  Now Gertrude Himmelfarb, leading conservative historian and Distinguished Professor of History at New York University has come up with a volume that is almost exactly the same as the old conservative version.  There is just one slight difference.  The good Anglo-Americans are the followers of a Good Enlightenment, while France is the follower of a Bad Enlightenment.  Actually a majority of the book discusses the Enlightenment in England.  The term is appropriate, because although many of her subjects are actually Scots (Smith, Hume and the moral philosophers), Wales is ignored and Ireland only appears in a footnote.  We get a chapter on those moral philosphers who saw an innate moral sense in people.  We get discussions of Hume and Smith, while Burke gets a whole chapter, as a model of Enlightenment moderation and decency.  The more radical group around Paine get a less appreciative chapter, while John Wesley and Methodism get a chapter that also gets them placed in the Enlightenment.  Finally, there is a discussion of the glorious age of moderate philanthropy that followed the Enlightenment ideas.  There is also a concluding chapter on the wisdom of the American Enlightenment.  Notwithstanding the violent war that broke out between the two the two are basically in agreement on everything, with special emphasis placed on their high opinion of religion.  By contrast, the French get everything wrong.  They are dogmatically opposed to religion, contemptuous of the public, opposed to philanthropy, supportive to Enlightened Despotism while their emphasis on reason over all leads directly to the Terror of the French Revolution.  The book concludes with a paean to compassionate conservatism. <br /> <br />This is a middlebrow history.  Instead of serious analysis, we get quotations from Tocqueville.  We have an admiring chapter on Burke that is as admiring and uncritical as dozens of other conservative tributes.  We also have a surfeit of double standards.  Himmelfarb mocks Price and Priestly's millenial speculations, while John Wesley's opposition to Copernicus and belief in witchcraft go unmentioned.  Voltaire's anti-semitism is condemned, while Hume's racism goes unmentioned.  (Himmelfarb also says that the philosophes hated Judaism more than Christianity, but provides nothing to support this.)  The Anglo-American Enlightenment is viewed as pro-education largely because of Smith's plans for public education in The Wealth of Nations.  They were not implemented in Britian for decades to come, yet she dismisses Condorcet's plans for public education because they were not implemented quickly either.  One theme of Himmelfarb is that the Anglo-American Enlightenment was genuinely democratic while the philosophes were snottily elitist.  But this is simply playing with words:  Himmelfarb obviously knows that Hume was not a democrat, that Burke vociferiously opposed them, and that the intensely hierarchical and fiercely authoritarian Methodists did not care for universal suffrage.  And if the French philosophes were so anti-democratic and anti-semitic, why did France become a democracy and French Jews full citizens before England?  The discussion of philanthropy is completely uncritical.  It is odd that one seeking to defend the Enlightenment Project would discuss prison reform as if Michel Foucault never existed.  It is clearly unconscionable to discuss poverty without mentioning K.D.M. Snell and praise the  anti-slavery as if David Brion Davis never existed. <br /> <br />Slavery, indeed, is a bit of a blind spot for Himmelfarb.  The American dilemna over slavery and the treatment of Indians is treatedwith a good deal of sympathy by Himmelfarb (more certainly than she gives to the slaves and the Indians).  By contrast, there is no sympathy for French revolutionary leaders who face severe financial crisis, an absolutist political culture, a haughty Catholic establishment, a treacherous King and foreign invasion.  On slavery Himmelfarb lamely suggests that the writers of the constitution were somehow vaguely anti-slavery.  The fact that Jefferson, Madison and others had careers beyond 1787 lasting for four or five decades is not examined.  She ignores Jon Butler and Leonard Levy on religion in the American repubic.  A whole host of scholarship on slavery and the American Revolution goes unmentioned, as does more critical scholarship on Indian-American relations.  Her empahsis that everyone in the Anglo-American Enlightenment thought that religion was useful, blurs the fact that state Anglicanism argued that Christianity was true, that non-Anglicans should be deprived of crucial rights, and that non-Christians were damned.  There is also no discussion of modern science, while critics of the whole Enlightenment Project will not be satisfied with her brief, superificial discussion of empire.  One would not learn, as one would from Emma Rothschild's recent book on Smith and Condorcet, that far from being mutually appreciative of each other, Burke's Scots admirers denounced Smith's admirers as atheists, subversives and traitors.  There are errors on Methodists and the American Revolution (Wesley ordered all his missionaries to leave the ungrateful rebels, and all but one of them complied), as well as the Methodist attitude towards education (Wesley's conservative successors opposed teaching Sunday School students how to write well into the 19th century).  And finally, Himmelfarb is unforgiveably catty and snide towards Wolstonecraft and Condorcet.  This is especially striking, since if Himmelfarb had to rely on Burke and Wesley to get women's rights she would not be the Distinguished Professor of anything.	2004-09-02
US	52562171	R11B8PB5D3MNWR	0374177376	691123481	The Irresponsible Self: On Laughter and the Novel	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Improving	James Wood's latest collection of essays is an improvement over his previous volume \\"The Broken Estate.\\"  For a start it shows off his cosmopolitanism to greater use.  Whereas the only great but underappreciated novelist to appear in his first volume was the Norweigian Hamsun, here we see Giovanni Verga, Henry Green, Joseph Roth and Bohumil Hrabal.  We are also provided with a usefully critical discussion of Isaac Babel.  Even better, in my view, are reviews of Italo Svevo and the introduction he wrote to Saltykov-Shchedrin's \\"The Golovlyov Family.\\" Reminding readers of the existence of this brilliant, deeply pessimistic, lacerating and criminally under-read novel is alone worth the price of purchase.  Secondly, there is nothing in this volume that is as tendentious as his essay on Flaubert.  Instead, what we have here are critical but intelligently appreciative reviews of \\"White Teeth\\" and \\"The Corrections,\\" praise of Monica Ali, quite justified disappointment with Salman Rusdhie's \\"Fury,\\" and quite caustic criticisms of Tom Wolfe's \\"A Man in Full.\\"  We are also blessed with the generous introduction that Wood produced for a collection of Saul Bellow's short stories.  Thirdly, we also get solid appreciations of truly great novels.  Wood starts off with \\"Don Quixote,\\" which is relatively simple because in point of fact even well educated readers rarely actually read it.  Any essay which scores Miguel de Unamuno as \\"relentlessly idealizing\\" and includes an amusing and mildly blasphemous analogy to summarize Part II has its uses. Later on, we see him discuss \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" and \\"Anna Karenina.\\" <br /> <br />If there is a common theme through this collection it is only partly about comedy.  It is, one might think, about people who are fundamentally comic, which is why Wood devotes so much attention to Saltykov-Shchedrin's \\"Little Judas,\\" in what is otherwise a horrifying satire.  Over and over again we read about the deluded, the self-deceived, and the willfully irrational, whether it is the failed priests of J.F. Powers, the little emphasized callousness of Don Quixote, or the warped humility of Fyodor Karamazov.  As a critic Wood delights in pointing out incidents that are precisely typical of the author in question, whether it is a hypocritical priest in Chekhov who berates a parishioner while pointing a food-laden fork at her, or the way \\"Little Judas,\\" brushes aside his son's desperate need for help by invoking Job's acceptance of his children's death, or the way Karenin practices, like the good bureaucrat he is, the conversation he hopes to start on his wife's infidelity.  He is adept at pointing out Bellow's striking imagery, or the way Rushdie gets it wrong in \\"Fury.\\"  He can see Zadie Smith's virtues, such as the way she points out the politically-correct gardening tips of a bien-pensant family, and the ultimately meretricious way she chose to end the novel (involving sex with twins and a fashionable comment about family).  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most useful essay is his criticism of Tom Wolfe.  Wolfe has been called a \\"Dickensian\\" writer, and Wood shows how false that is.  Where Wolfe's imagery is obvious, Dickens is subtle and clever, like Joe Gargery's eyes or saying Uriah Heep has a mouth like a post office.  Wood points out that Wolfe's characters only feel one emotion at a time, like British water faucets that gush either hot or cold water.  He points out that Wolfe's millionaire lacks the complexity of his real-life model Robert Maxwell, the millionaire who published Communist propaganda, the family tyrant with the loyal sons.  Over and over again Wolfe describes his characters as typical or broadly representative.  Moreover his physical description of them resembles fashion journalism, the concentration on their physical appearance and clothing, as if they were being judged on their appropriateness for a \\"Vanity Fair\\" shoot.  Nothing is as damning as the comparison Wood makes with a passage with \\"AnnaKarenina.\\"  A bit unfair one might think?  Not so.  In discussing the Doctor who delivers Levin's first child, Tolstoy does not follow Wolfe in discussing the cut of his clothes, or the cologne he uses.  Instead it is the \\"thick cigarettes\\" that he insists of smoking before going while Levin panics as he thinks, like all first-time fathers, his wife will give birth at any moment.  That is the sort of detail Wolfe never grasps. <br /> <br />Reservations?  Well, Wood writes nothing on Latin American literature (nor Japanese literature come to think of it), and so the third world is represented by V.S. Naipaul.  And as a lapsed evangelical Anglican the theme of religion appears just a bit too much and a bit too often.  And one may suspect a certain blind spot with Catholicism in his review of J.F. Powers.  Nevertheless this is a book of criticism with substantial virtues:  it is cosmopolitan, acute, thoughtful, amusing, intelligent, serious, sensible.  Most important, it reminds the reader of the moral necessity for reading and appreciating great literature.	2004-08-27
US	52562171	R287DPWVXIGRGP	0199261229	830540830	Facing the Second World War: Strategy, Politics, and Economics in Britain and France 1938-1940	Books	4	10	10	N	N	How Defeat saved the Allies from Disaster	Talbot Imlay's new book on Allied politics and strategy presents a new picture of the Phoney War period.  Once upon a time the history of the Phony War before the spring of 1940 was simple.  The British and French believed that their material superiority would win the day and complacently assumed that blockade and a \\"long war\\" would save the day.  At the same time morale, army organization, war production, propaganda all lagged behind the drive and efficiency of the Nazis.  So when the Nazis launched their brilliant offensive they speedily crushed all resistance on the continent.  Britain survived to fight another day, under the heroic leadership of Winston Churchill, but France met the inevitable fate for its decadence.  But now the story is different.  The German onslaught was an extremely risky move.  It could have failed, and with a little luck and a few smarter generals on the Allied side it would.  Scholars also note the strong leadership and stability of Daladier, signs of economic recovery, the overwhelming support for the war and the marginalizaton of the previously influential quasi-fascist and appeaser milieu. <br /><br /> <br /><br />Imlay's account suggests this revisionism may have gone too far, and argues that France failed the test of war in a way Britian didn't.   It is valuable for a number of reasons.  (1) It is based on extensive research, with more than 180 sets of papers from Britain and France.  (2) It provides a useful comparative discussion of three areas:  strategy, politics, and economic mobilization.  (3) Imlay's account provides the most detailed account of French politics and economics in the 1938-40 period.  There is nothing as detailed in such recent surveys of the period by Ernest May, Eugen Weber or Julian Jackson.  (4) But Imlay does not simply repeat the francophobic cliches of yesteryear.  Yes, the French right accepted war in 1939.  But they feared that a war would hamper economic liberty.  They therefore successfully pushed fora hostile attitude towards labor and against systematic government mobilization of the economy.  This strategy, which was the exact opposite of the British one, lead to a much less successful war economy than Britain's.  (5) This leads to Imlay's most important revision.  If France could not fight and win a long war, without damage to the principles of economic liberalism, then it must fight and win a short one.  Therefore France moved to increasingly desperate moves to open a second front, whether in the Balkans, in Finland, in Scandinavia or finally in Azerbaijan.  Much of the French government seriously believed that by knocking out the Baku oil fields, the Allies would sever Soviet oil supplies to Germany, and thereby win the war.  And as time went on, many English became sympathetic to the idea, while one could not rule out the French dragging the English in with a fait accompli.  It cannot be overemphasized what an incredibly bad idea this was.  Aside from being little evidence to support this overoptimistic strategy, it would have the Allies fight both Germany and the Soviet Union.  France, Britain, the USSR and the USA barely defeated Germany acting together.  France and Britain could hardly have beat both Hitler and Stalin. <br /><br /> <br /><br />One should point out them reservations about the book.  (1) While the comparative treatment of labor is very good, there could be more systematic discussion of the economies of the two countries, such as inflation, unemployment, productivity, and economic growth.  (2) In contrast to a deeply polarized France, Imlay emphasizes an increasingly firm anti-fascist consensus around Labor, Liberals and Churchill.  Perhaps, but this seems a little too overconfident, considering that Churchill's replacement of Chamberlain was a close run thing.  (3) More attention could be paid to public attention.  Was the pacifist wing of the French Socialist party really gaining momentum before the outbreak of war?  And how did it doafter it?  (4) Imlay says Henry Morgenthau was American Secretary of State, when he was really Secretary of the Treasury.  But overall Imlay has written an illuminating account, which provides the paradox that narrow defeat may have saved the Allies from self-inflicted disaster.	2004-08-19
US	52562171	R1AWJV7996ONRY	0679722343	313605737	Confessions of Zeno	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Why is this a Great Novel?	Important, influential critics, such as V.S. Prtichett, Martin Seymour-Smith and James Woods have declared that \\"Zeno's Conscience,\\" (formerly published as \\"The Confessions of Zeno\\") is not merely one of the best Italian novels of the last century, but one of the best novels of the last century period.  A reader looking at this book may wonder why.  On the face of it this book provides a comic account of a prosperous Triestan businessman, Zeno Cosini.  It starts with his discussion of his inability to quit smoking, an inability fatally flawed by his lack of any desire to do so.  We then face a discussion of his relationship with his father and his father's death.  We hear about Zeno's courtship and his marriage, how he conducted an adulterous affiar, and how he saw his wife's brother-in-law ruin his business.  Overall, these accounts are amusing.  Certainly they are filled with the stuff of traditional comedy.  Zeno tries to marry one attractive sister, proposes to a second one, and marries the third, plainest one--with whom he is very happy.  He carries on a relationship with a would be vocalist who had the most musical voice--but can't really sing.  We learn of how this relationship failed because his mistress thought his beautiful sister-in-law was actually his wife.  But what makes this novel so superior to to other comic novels?  What makes this better than Kingsley Amis, or Neil Simon? <br /> <br />Well it's easy to point out negative factors, since Svevo is not as sentimental or crude as Simon.  Although Svevo went out of his way to write in a more everyday style than the more refined cast of contemporary Italian literature, his book flows much better than Amis' awkward contortions.  And Zeno is obviously more complex and better characterized than Amis' autobiographical, whining self-pitying protagonists.  Instead Svevo presents a deep, rich, subtle psychology for his protagonist.  This in itself distinguishes him from Waugh and Catch-22.  There have been other pioneers in 20th century fiction, but instead of the complex modernist techniques of Woolf, Joyce, Proust and Kafka, Svevo presents his as a comedy.  But it is no idiosyncracy that Joyce encountered Svevo and did so much to ensure his discovery.  Although the framing story of the book is Cosini's displeasure with his psychoanalyst, Svevo's account of Cosini's reactions, delays, excuses, subterfuges, and endless rationalizations does resemble the paradoxical nature of Freud at his best.  Its use of comic paradox is reminiscent of another contemporary assimilated Jewish writer, Kafka (whom Svevo almost certainly never read).  One can only give a few examples.  There is of course, the countless notations Svevo makes of his final cigarette.  At one point Zeno's father jokes that Zeno is crazy.  So Zeno goes and decides to get as a joke an official certificate of sanity.  This only leads his father to believe he really is crazy.  (Later Zeno's youngest sister-in-law agrees).  Zeno comments on how his father read ponderous moralistic works; now that he is older he is inclined to accept his practice:  \\"One may be driven to commit murder by love or hatred, but one can only advocate murder out of sheer wickedness.\\"  Later we see the excruciating dilemma where Zeno rages at the doctor who can keep his father alive when he will not recover from the stroke he has had.  We see the multiple lies Zeno concocts arounds himself as he covers up an assignation with a visit to a dying acquaintance.  And so Svevo's account goes on, and takes a darker tone in its final pages as Zeno finds himself in the middle of World War One, and ends up speculating about the final extinction of humanity.	2004-08-19
US	52562171	R9ZSQYPLWKHU2	074253023X	3536925	The Struggle for the Soul of the Nation: Czech Culture and the Rise of Communism (The Harvard Cold War Studies Book Series)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Fascinating, infuriating	The 1948 Communist seizure of power was the only time when Communism came to power in a country with strong democratic traditions.  Previously, it has been the leading member of the democratically elected coalition government that had ruled the country since 1945.  During the cold war, American and emigre scholars argued that this was a classic example of Communist subversion, of how it pretended to offer a democratic visage while plotting to install totalitarian government.  As time went on, some scholars were skeptical of this, wondering whether if it had not been for the cold war the coalition government might have been continued.  Bradley Abrams seeks to look at this period again in a new book, whose focus is fascinating and infuriating.  Abrams' argument is that a key reason why the Communists were successful in 1948 was because they were able to construct intellectual debate in such a way as to give them a decisive advantage.  Although Abrams doesn't use this term, the CPC had a hegemony in Czech political life.  Partly this was the result of the shock of Munich, which ruined the image of the West in Czech eyes, as well as the Nazi occupation.  But by looking at such issues as the widespread socialist consensus, the need for a new national consciousness, the generation of 1945, and the reputation of the first republic, we can see the Communist advantage in one arena of debate after another.  Abrams looks at three groups:  the \\"democratic socialists\\" who ended up accepting too many of the Communists' premises, the Czech Protestants, who enthusiastically endorsed more of them, and the Czech Catholics, who were properly skeptical and reasonable, but who were too weak to have sufficient influence.  Abrams is useful in providing a good comparative account of Eastern Europe, both in its war experiences, as well as the strength of local Communist parties, based on the latest research.  Nor were the CPC's claims for a moderate, parliamentary road to socialism mere subterfuge, though obviously they were not sincere enough.  There is one particularly useful passage about 1948 Czech opinion.  For many years people thought independent opinion polls showed that Communist support was falling noticeably from the 38% it won in 1948, and that is why the carried out the Prague coup.  But Abrams notes that the Communist polls suggested they would win a majority in 1948, while other scholars suggest that their support was stable.  In general, Abrams provides new detail and information about the 1945-1948 period. <br /><br /> <br /><br />But there are less satisfactory aspects of the book.  For a start, this book almost entirely deals with the CZECH experience.  There is much less said about the Slovak experience.  There is little said about the Czech experience of collaboration, either as a theme of intellectual debate or in retrospective scholarship.  Nor is there any discussion of the Holocaust in Czechoslovakia.  It is noteworthy that in his approval of Catholic criticisms of socialism, that Abrams does not really discuss Tiso, the Slovakian Quisling who happened to be a priest, and whose political party relied on Catholic mobilization for its political success.  (It also makes one Protestant's crude denunciation of Catholicism as a \\"fascist religion\\" slightly more reasonable).  One serious problem is that his discussion of \\"democratic socialists\\" lumps in both the right of the Social Democratic party and the National Socialists.  The latter party, which incidentally had nothing to do with the Nazis, is glibly described as socialist.  It certainly was not a socialist party in the first republic it dominated, where Abrams himself notes that the state sector was smaller than in most other Eastern European countries.  And this leads to the real problem with Abrams' book.  It has a top-down approach, with everything concentrating on intellectual discussion.  We only get brief mentions of who supported the political parties, and even less onwhy people supported them or how the parties worked on a local and grassroots basis.  Aside from a few opinion polls, we get little sense of what people actually thought about politics.  In summary, Abrams' account follows contemporary Czech opinion which castigates the democratic opposition for not posing a more vigorous resistance.  But it strikes me as unfair for criticizing Benes for lacking the heroism of a Havel.  Havel, after all, was risking only his own life, as well as inconveniencing a few friends, while Benes faced the risk of civil war with little likelihood he could win, and less practical assistance from the United States.  Moreover, the focus of intellectual discourse and the lack of focus of public opinion makes it difficult to judge the non-communist's strategy.  If Communist support was declining, then the non-communists' tactful attitude was working.  But even if the CPC was not declining, Abrams' account conflates intellectual matters with strategic and tactical ones.  A more thorough account is needed to be really satisfactory.	2004-08-19
US	52562171	R1O4G5CZUR4SD3	1565848748	701269570	Hatchet Jobs: Writings on Contemporary Fiction	Books	2	26	29	N	N	He's Tough!  He's Angry!  He Whines like Andy Rooney!	Lionel Trilling once spoke, in his somewhat sententious way, of \\"the Moral Obligation to be Intelligent.\\"  This is worth pondering here, because much criticism gains its power from the coherent moral perspective that it offers.  One thinks obviously of Trilling's own Cold War Liberalism, Eliot's Anglicanism, the many varieties of Marxism, Oscar Wilde's aesthetics, or the determined relativism of a Stanley Fish.  So what is striking about this collection of mostly angry reviews by Dale Peck is the absence of any coherent philosophical or aesthetic perspective.  Note that it is the absence of a coherent morality; not the absence of a moralism that could and frequently did disfigure Trilling, Leavis, Eliot, Chesterton and others.  It is not that Peck is amoral or nihilistic.  His angry comments on the world in his discussion of Rick Moody, his preference for a nuanced homosexual fiction, his criticisms of Julian Barnes and Philip Roth for misogyny reveal a certain left-liberal attitude.  But unlike James Wood, Peck does not use literature as a way of illuminating moral questions.  Rather this is a book by a promising young novelist which discusses why he dislikes other promising young novelists, such as Jim Crace, Colson Whitehead, David Foster Wallace, and (of course) Moody, as well as slightly more prominent Barnes, Jamaica Kincaid, and Stanley Crouch.  Of the books in this review of the past decade's fiction only two, I think, are in any danger of being mistaken for being the best novels of their time:  \\"Infinite Jest\\" and \\"American Pastoral.\\"  In other words there are no sacred cows here, and little sign of genius discovered.    <br />  <br />Nor does Peck seem to have read widely.  His references are largely to English literature, and even more so to American fiction.  Perhaps the most lively line in this book is about Peck's miserable access to literature when he was growing up in darkest Kansas, where Taylor Caldwell is on the high school reading list, and wherehe thought Watership Down was the best book he read before going to university and he was right.  Unfortunately Peck is not a particularly amusing writer, nor is he a terribly perceptive one.  He has a caustic comment on Stanley Crouch (\\"just another demagogue in an age that confuses demagoguery with honesty\\") but his account does not really follow it up.  Instead there is a criticism of the Emancipation Proclamation of questionable accuracy, a misreading of a metaphor which is based on Peck's ignorance that birds evolved from dinosaurs, and there are the kinds of sententious comments that he criticizes other authors for making (\\"Ralph Ellison was an individual; Stanley Crouch, his student, is not.\\")  <br />  <br />Several times Peck criticizes authors for using mixed metaphors, but his own work is not immune from them.  In the course of castigating Rick Moody, Peck argues that \\"the murder of innocents\\" is a redundancy.  Clearly it is not, since it is perfectly possible to murder guilty or generally contemptible people.  Elsewhere he blames the rise of genre fiction that inflicts \\"How Stella got Her Groove Back\\" on the \\"post-World War II critical establishment,\\" who applaud positive moralistic fiction over \\"decadent\\" fiction.  What is he talking about?  Post-1945 can one imagine any Partisan Review contributor expressing such a preference. The tendency was the exact opposite, as one can see in Macdonald, Howe, Trilling, Rahv, Fielder, Baldwin, and so many others. At one point he dismisses Sven Birkerts as a geriatic twit, the sort of person who makes a fool himself mouthing rap lyrics but really prefers polkas.  Then Peck undercuts himself by listing the writers Birkerts has championed:  Musil, Mandelstam, Joseph Roth and several other worthy writers, and airily dismisses them.  Now Mandelstam is one of the four or five greatest poets of the last century, and if Peck could write a book as deep as \\"The Radetsky March\\" or \\"The Man Without Qualities\\" or \\"Life:  A User's Manual,\\" reviewers would be ecstatic.    <br />  <br />All this leads to Peck's disenchantment with the modern novel, where he argues that everything went downhill after the second half of \\"Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.\\"  The geneology runs from  \\"Ulysses\\" to later Faulkner and later Nabokov down to the experimental mush we have today.  There are insulting comments about McEwan, DeLillo, and Franzen, but no real analysis.  That's hardly suprising since Peck's geneology makes little sense.  Everyone knows Faulkner is uneven and his later work is of finite value, while most people know how to keep the enthusiasts for \\"Ada\\" at bay.  And to write an autopsy of American literature as if no American writer read Proust, Singer, Kafka, Garcia Marquez, Grass, Naipaul, Vargas Llosa or Appelfeld, while Bellow and Morrison are kept off stage is simply peculiar.  Peck starts his book by boldly defending his right to be angry.  But the problem with Peck is not that he is critical:  it is that he takes easy targets and tries to bludgeon them with wiffle-bats.	2004-08-18
US	52562171	R3EH0SQT80UOKE	0231131143	183147106	Gandhi in His Time and Ours: The Global Legacy of His Ideas	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Useful and informative	For many years David Hardiman has been a leading scholar of the Indian peasantry.  Now he has written his view of Gandhi and his politics.  The Gandhi he presents is ultimately a man of high moral courage.  But this is not to say that Hardiman has no disagreements with him. In his opinion Gandhi presented a \\"dialogic\\" vision, emphasizing tolerance and diversity of opinions.  Hardiman then discusses such subjects as Gandhi's views on nationalism, the origins of his non-violent resistance, his criticisms of modernity, his views on sex and the family, his attitude towards the untouchables and the \\"tribal\\" minorities, his campaigns against religious hatred, the fate of Gandhian politics after his death, and the influence of Gandhi on the wider world. <br /> <br />What can we say about such a work?  There are some flaws.  The use of Bakhtin to support Gandhi's \\"dialogic\\" stance is a bit fasionable.  The fact that Hindi Swarj is written in a dialogue does not necessarily mean much for its open-mindedness.  After all, both Plato and Galileo used dialogues, but they both clearly meant to express one particular viewpoint.  Hardiman says Gandhi supported Polish resistance in the second world war, but the reference is to a secondary source.  Indeed, there is no systematic discussion of the Second World War, surely the acid test for any pacifist.  The discussion of Gandhi's international influence is also weak, looking as it does at Petra Kelly, Martin Luther King, and others, including, somewhat oddly, Malcolm X.  Hardiman's scholarship is rather thin here, relying on Stephen Oates' biography of King to discuss the American civil rights movement, and ignoring such key scholars as Dittmer, Garrow, Sugrue and many others.  The concentration on individuals may lead many to ask whether non-violent resistance is better at saving the souls of its leaders than achieving its goals.  The material preconditions for successful non-violent resistance are never really explored. <br /> <br/>At the same time, however, Hardiman provides much useful information.  Who would have known that Gandhi's assasin twice tried to kill him in 1944, and both times Gandhi allowed him to go free?  Many people know that in South Africa Gandhi offered his services to the British during their wars.  But Hardiman also points out how appalled Gandhi was when he learned that the British were callously torturing and killing Africans in the Zulu rebellion.  Hardiman also uses his past experience in subaltern studies to provide useful historical background.  We learn of the Indian origins of such non-violent practices as haunting the doorsteps of debtors and threatening suicide.  We also learn of how Gandhi encouraged civil disobedience among women, and also the limited effect this had on Indian gender relations.  Particularly helpful is his discussion of the struggles of the untouchables and the tribal communities, and Gandhi's varying, but increasingly supportive, reaction to them.  We learn of how Gandhi supported tolerance and respect for other people's faiths, and we learn of a group of Muslims who adapted Gandhian methods to resist their exploitive communal leaders.  We also learn about Gandhian politics after 1948.  It is not an encouraging story.  Gandhians tried to encourage landowners to donate land to the village as a whole.  Many landowners made this promise (requiring a minimum of a fortieth of the village land) and TIME magazine praised it as an alternative to Communism, but few kept their promises.  Gandhians also split over the 1975 State of Emergency.  One leader supported Indira Gandhi's use of nuclear weapons, while  the other leader, J.P. Narayan, formed a broad based movement against Gandhi's government, which unfortunately helped to indulge and legitimize the Hindu right. <br /> <br />Hardiman's portrait of Gandhi is a complex one.  It is important to remember that Gandhi was more the Mendelssohn of Hinudism, rather than the Spinoza.  Hardiman points outthat while Gandhi was always hostile to untouchability he thought that caste could be worked with.  Hardiman also points out that he became more liberal as time went on:  where once he supported marriages only within castes, by the forties he encouraged Hindu girls to marry untouchables.  Hardiman notes that Gandhi could be too indulgent towards Hinduism, but also points out that the Hindu right cannot (and often does not) claim him as a spokesman.  Hardiman also discusses Gandhi's patriarchal attitude, and how his family suffered for his abstemious and dogmatic beliefs.  He even went so far to suggest that fathers would be right to murder their raped \\"dishonored\\" daughters.  But to view Gandhi as a life-denying asectic ignores his wit, his generosity, his open-mindedness and willingness to change his views.  We can see this in his changing attitudes towards caste, ecumenism, and the tribal communities.  Once mass rape erupted with partition, he pleaded with fathers to forgive their daughters.  And, of course, there were his fasts in order to stop mass communal violence.  For this and for other noble and heroic acts, he was foully murdered by a Hindu bigot.	2004-08-13
US	52562171	R39K8K0ZTA8Q42	0385469926	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus, Vol. 2 - Mentor, Message, and Miracles	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A New Elijah for the End of the World	Of the three volumes of John Meier's study of the historical Jesus, this is probably the most difficult for the average reader. Much of it consists of complex discussions of the historicity of various bible passages, considered in extensive and exhaustive detail. It is not an easy read, but Meier's research is vital to understanding the real Jesus. As the subtitle indicates, Meier discusses John the Baptist, the basically eschatological message of the Kingdom of God, and the question of Miracles. On John the Baptist we read of how the embarassment of Jesus' baptism is effaced by the Gospel writers. We learn how Jesus accepted a baptism for the forgiveness of sins, which does not necessarily mean that he personally thought he was a sinner (many such confessions are of a communal nature). We learn about John's fundamental belief in the approaching end of the world. We learn how Mark muddled certain details of John the Baptist's execution, such as the identity of Herodias' first husband, and we find that many of the passages dealing with the Baptist likely go back to the historical Jesus. As for Jesus' message, Meier argues that Jesus did believe in a quickly approaching future kingdom. We can see this from his study of the Lord's Prayer, the Beatitudes, and such passages as Mark 6:10 and Matt 8:11-12. Meier also agrees that in some way Jesus viewed the Kingdom as already present, the first century Galilean mind not sharing the same interest in clarity and non-contradiction. Meier makes two vital points. First off, if John the Baptist believed in the near end of the world, and the early church believed in the near end, then it is likely that Jesus shared this incorrect belief. Second, if Jesus was an experienced teacher and if he &quot;used the symbol of the Kingdom of God in a sense directly counter to the eschatological connotations with which it was often connected, he would have made his own usage clear--all the more so if he wanted to negate any or all eschatological expectations.&quot; <br />  <br /> Meier then spends the second half of the book discussing Jesus' miracles. As a historian he claims that he cannot judge whether Jesus actually carried them out or not. This may seem like a cop-out, but it is not. Many past biographers of Jesus have wanted to split him from the miracles, but this assumes that Jesus was fundamentally rational and modern. Clearly this is not the case, and it also led to peculiar explanations of how people incorrectly thought a miracle took place. Instead, Meier notes we can examine which miracles go back to the historical Jesus and which do not. Certain kinds of miracles take place more than others, others show the redactional tendencies of the particular Evangelist. As such Meier concludes that Jesus was an exorcist, and was believed to carry out some remarkable healings. There are three accounts in the bible of Jesus raising someone from the dead. Here Meier believes there is a historical core to the events, though he is unsure whether they originally involved an actual resurrection. By contrast, nearly all of the nature miracles are creations of the Early Church. After one strips the allusions to the Eucharist and to Elijah in the Feeding of the 5,000 there may have been a remarkable, if not miraculous, meal in Jesus's life. But once one strips all the allusions and Johannine redaction in the turning of wine into water there is, as Meier clearly shows, nothing left. The walking on water, the stilling of the storm and the miraculous catch of fish are all reshifted resurrection appearances, while the cursing of the fig tree is clearly an exercise in Matthean theology.  <br />  <br /> What can we say about all this? First, this is a remarkably researched book. There are at least 380 pages of notes in this 1,049 page book. There are exhaustive discussions of linguistic questions, stylistic questions, and redactional ones. Meier is excellent on providing the wider historical context, such as the origins of the Kingdom of God, the Old Testament backgrounds to the walking on the water, and the Hebrew practice of exorcism. Meier is also acute on distinguishing between Jesus' miracles, (which emphasizes Jesus and God's free gift, are symbols of the coming end time, and [with one exception] do not hurt anyone) with contemporary magicians (who coerced deities for often petty purposes, provides no church and engaged in esoteric secrets and mysterious, often nonsensical spells). Many of his discussions, such as the raising of Lazarus, or the Miracle of Cana, are tour de forces. Naturally they are caveats with this book, as there must be in one so learned and complex. It may be true that the miracles of the Greek Apollonious and the Jewish Honi the Circle Drawer are not really contemporary with Jesus. But it is reasonable to assume that there were Greek and Jewish miraculous contemporaries, and had not Christians destroyed exactly this sort of literature once mastering the empire we would find more of them. Meier tends to concentrate on differences of technique in Jesus' healing and exorcisms, while forgetting that while we can trace the fact of exorcism and healing back to Jesus, we are less certain about his techniques. Nevertheless this is an important major work, especially so since it remembers that Jesus was a very different person from the man 21st century Christians of all denominations would like him to be.	2004-08-06
US	52562171	R3G85UGI0PCIRL	1586482475	787803321	Idiot Proof: A Short History Of Modern Delusions	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Shooting fish in a barrell...	...can actually be harder than it looks. Welcome to Francis Wheen, amusing columnist for the eminently sensible Guardian. Wheen's last book was a surprisingly informative and sympathetic biography of Karl Marx. Now he devotes his attention to the many idiocies that curse our modern life. He starts off with the coincidence that Margaret Thatcher and the Ayatollah Khomeini both came to power in 1979. We then get a discussion of the complacency and foolishness of the Reagan years. We get into a discussion of the fatuity of self-help gurus, advice manuals and ilk like Deepak Chopra. We then look at foolish realist intellectuals, with Francis Fukuyama and Samuel Huntington taking pride of place. Then we go into the foolishness of postmodernism, which then segues into the surge of creationism, and how it is indulged by Gore, Bush II and Blair. Then we learn about other assorted New Age crackpottery, and we see Wheen worry about belief in UFOs, the popularlity of the X-Files, and how Reagan and the Clintons have met astrologers. There is a discussion of blowback from the CIA, then Wheen defends the Enlightenment from Postmodernists and the Frankfurt School, which then merges into a discussion of how Wheen disliked the hysteria over the death of Princess Diana. Then we get a caustic look at the cult of globalization, a return of the fatuity of the last economic boom, and finally criticism of those leftists who opposed the war against Afghanistan. <br />  <br /> Well looking over this summary, there are no shortage of worthy targets. And Wheen occasionally provides some useful details to go along with his disgust. For example during the eighties people earning over $500,000 dropped their charitable givings by 65%. We learn about Thatcherite heroes of the Free Market who ended up in jail. We see Martin Walker give the &quot;Alien Autopsy&quot; Hoax a ridiculously free pass. We learn that Enron was criticized by both Amnesty International and the IMF for the same dubious Indian plant. On the other hand, much of this will not be new or insightful to anyone who has a good memory. And the book is as scattershot and ill organized as my summary implies. There is also a certain polemical desparation to the book. I was never terribly interested in Princess Diana, and I was always inclined to think that most of her marital problems were self-inflicted. But there is little point in sneering at her appearance, which is presumably Wheen's point when he compares her to a Bulgarian airline hostess. And praising himself and Dissent magazine for being among a brave minority of pro-war supporters does not quite read the same after Tony Blair's decision to invade Iraq. <br />  <br /> There are other problems as well. Against Deepak Chopra, Wheen is suitably vitriolic. Against Alistair McIntyre or &quot;The Dialectic of Enlightenment,&quot; he is out of his depth. (Saying that Nietzsche was really a Romantic figure, not an Enlightenment one, is of questionable accuracy for a start.) And while Francis Fukuyama is a clearly less a serious thinker than a cunning opportunist in the right time and the right place, it is of importance whether his statement that liberal democracy is the last stage of human civilization is falsified in years, decades, or centuries. Wheen doesn't get this. He criticizes &quot;The X-Files&quot; for always supporting the supernatural solution, but that is sort of like criticizing H.P. Lovecraft for not being Agatha Christie. And, really, how many articles have there been about Derrida and Foucault in the American media since 1991 that did not sneer and spit at the mention of their names, AND preen itself on its courage in criticizing them? Wheen's account is different for using Terry Eagleton and Barbara Ehrenreich to support his criticisms and this is useful as far as it goes.  <br />  <br /> There is a certain lack of depth in this account. (The uncritical praise of Mencken is not a good sign.) So what that a solitary academic haswrote a book that is indulgent about alien abduction claims? To believe in creationism means rejecting not merely biology, but also geology and many other modern sciences as well. Belief in alien abduction implies the Earth faces the gravest and most serious threat in its history, and so does belief in the final days. Yet there is a patent disconnect between the indulgence of superstition and foolishness and how Americans and Britons actually act. Modern science is well funded and its dominion is not seriously challenged. People go about day to day notwithstanding their waiting for the rapture. That people look at a horoscope instead of flipping a coin is not the end of the world. This disconnect is disturbing and should not be viewed complacently, but the problem is larger, and more subtle than Wheen presents it.	2004-07-30
US	52562171	R1AVSV455J9T0J	0670032964	444014990	The Reformation: A History	Books	4	236	258	N	N	Thorough, but not definitive	In many ways, Diarmaid McCullouch's account is a useful, thorough guide to the Reformation, which starts in the aftermath of the Hussite controversy, the end of the Babylonian captivity, the rise of Humanism and the reconquest of Spain, and which ends with the Glorious Revolution, the revocation of the Edict of Nantes and with the beginning of the Enlightenment.  MacCulloch is careful to remind the reader to take seriously the religious passions of the period and avoid the enormous condescension of the secular present.  For here was a period where both Catholics and Protestants emphasized the absolute need for faith in Jesus as well as the need for moral behavior and increased discipline.  In the battle of faith over works, Protestants emphasized the Gospel of John and the Letter to the Romans, while Catholic emphasized the Gospel of Matthew and the Epsitle of James.  Whereas Catholics only had the Eucharist once a year, the Scottish Calvinists emphasized a more rational devotion, such that parishioners could now expect to take it twice.  Instead of obeying the Pope, Protestants emphasized thier new ecclesiastical hierarchies.  For these differences people were slaughtered from Drogheda to Magdeburg.   <br /> <br />MacCulloch's main virtue is thoroughness.  This is a history of the Reformation that covers almost all of Western Christianity.  Not merely do Britian, France, the Netherlands and what is now Germany all play their parts, but we also get special sections on the suprisingly cosmopolitan culture of late 16th century Poland, the Protestant redoubt that was then Transylvania, as well as accounts of the Counter-Reformation in Italy and Spain.  We even get the short and unhappy history of an attempt to turn Moldova Protestant, as well as colonial efforts in Virginia, Japan, Latin American and the Philippines.  Indeed of all the countries of Western Christianity, only Slovakia, Slovenia and Finland do not make an appearance.  Moreover, MacCulloch also makes clear that this was also a period of religious reform on the Catholic side.  Just as the pre-1517 period was not one of religious decadence, there were new orders, new forms of discipline, new cultural forms, new teleogies after the Council of Trent.  In 1580, Poland, France, Bohemia, Bavaria, Austria, Hungary, and Belgium were all balanced between Protestantism and Catholicism.  A century later they were all clearly Catholic.  A third point in MacCulloch's favor is an amusing style and a fine eye for detail.  Many people would not know that the Spanish Inquistion was one of the more level-headed groups during the witch-hunt panics, a response, MacCulloch suggests, of their long experience with paranoia.  After a lucid and amusing description of medieval Aristotelian theories of transubstantiation, MacCulloch notes the irony that thousands of Protestants were burned at the stake for rejecting an idea of a man who had never heard of Jesus.  Later, we will see Protestants rejecting early cures for malaria and syphilis because Catholics were the first to come up with them.  Many people are aware of Luther's hostility towards Jews, but MacCulloch notes that Erasmus could be equally venemous against them. <br /> <br />Having said that, this history is not definitive.  The Gaelic culture of Scotland was easily absorbed into Protestantism, while the Gaelic culture of Ireland was almost completely hostile.   By 1650 Catholics were tiny minorities in both England and Scotland.  Meanwhile, in the Netherlands a sizeable minority were (and still are) Catholic, while what is now Belgium was mostly Catholic.  Why?  There is no systematic explanation of why one area was Catholic and another Protestant.  We only get partial explanations, such as the argument that since the cult of purgatory had never developed as far in the South, Luther's polemics against it had much less effect.  There is little discussion of what the population as a whole thought about the reformation.  The Revisionist argument that the British population was underwhelmed by the Reformation for several decades is never really confronted.  What did Europeans actually know about their Christian faith?  Whether one uses Keith Thomas, Gerald Strauss, Christopher Haigh or Geoffrey Parker the results are not encouraging.  MacCulloch emphasizes the Ottoman threat, many discussions of possible turning points and alternate endings, a discussion of the witch-hunts, and two chapters on sex and gender, even though the changes there were relatively modest.  By contrast, there is little discussion of the economic causes or effects of the Reformation.  In that way, it is very much a monograph of our time.  Much of the book consists of sympathetic discussions of Protestant and Catholic theology, while there is no appearance in the index of El Greco, Montaigne, Spenser, Rembrandt or Milton.  In his discussion of theology, there is a certain bias for Reformed theologians over their Lutheran and Catholic rivals.  Certainly Augustine is treated as if he were holy scripture, while the modern critical consensus that Jesus opposed divorce absolutely goes unmentioned.  Instead, there is the patently incorrect claim that Britain has the most restrictive divorce laws in Europe.	2004-07-24
US	52562171	R3OR3NTNG8EY4K	1582342369	88983250	Mary: A Flesh-and-Blood Biography of the Virgin Mother	Books	1	61	82	N	N	New Age Sentimentality;	How can you write a new biography about the Virgin Mary when you have only the gospels? Lesley Hazelton's solution is to use anthropological and historical information to fill the background. Starting off with the basic facts about being a first century Jewish peasant, she uses information about Galilee, being a healer, pregnancy and childbirth, first century polytheism, and nasty details about crucifixion. In her view Mary, or Maryam, was pregnant at thirteen. She was probably a healer who taught her son. She certainly would have assisted the rebellion that broke out on the death of Herod the Great in 4 BCE. She may have been raped, possibly by a solider, possibly by priests. Notwithstanding that traumatic event, she was &quot;a strong woman of ability and wisdom who actively chose her role in history, and lived it to the fullest.&quot; Now a reader might look at Hazleton's rather sparse notes, and note some scholarship, but a closer look would reveal that never gives page numbers. In fact this is simply a reverse of the old devotional lives. Where they portrayed Mary as an exemplar of Christian dogma, she portrays her as a New Age hero. Both do violence to the real Jewish Mary. <br />  <br /> One of Hazleton's flaws is anachronism of evidence. She relies on a mid-century history of Palestinian peasant life, and then assumes that there were no changes in the intervening nineteen centuries. She uses Barbara Ehrenreich's deeply flawed book on medieval midwives to argue that Mary would have been a healer. Even if women were healers at that time, it does not follow that Mary would be one of them. She uses information from the Intafada to argue that Mary would have supported the rebellion on Herod's death. (Later still she argues, against the evidence of both Matthew and Luke, that Jesus was actually born ten years after Herod's death, which means that Mary would have been 2 at the time of the rebellion.) There are other examples of Hazleton's shallow grasp of Palestinian history. Contrary to what she says, there is some evidence of synagogues at the time in Galilee. Herod the Great would not have thought about declaring himself a divinity, since he was actually Jewish. Palestine was not of strategic value because it was part of the Grain land route from Egypt to Rome; grain would have been shipped entirely by sea. Contrary to what Hazleton says, Galileans in the Roman era were not descended from the old Israeli monarchy. They were fervently Jewish who probably descended from settlers in the second century.  <br />  <br /> These errors allow Hazleton to make the preposterous claim that Mary was a Goddess worshipper, and even said prayers to Isis! There is no evidence to support such a suggestion. Josephus refers to the Galilean's devotion, and the archaeological evidence clearly shows that there was no major Gentile presence at this time. Exclusive monotheism is one of the clearest and best attested ideas of first century Judaism. There is certainly no evidence that Mary would have been aware of the esoteric, much later, gnostic speculation that Hazleton (of course) links her to. But then Hazleton's ideas about religion are pretty sentimental. She has John the Baptist believe &quot;that God was inside you, not in a temple,&quot; an idea that was &quot;an early manifestation of the democratic spirit.&quot; In point of fact John clearly argued that the world faced imminent judgement for its sins. Hazleton may prefer the cosmopolitan and tolerant virtues of paganism, but they have nothing to do with Mary. One should add that the book in infected with purple prose about fertility and Mary's grief over the crucifixion. One should note that Hazleton talks about things that she has no way of knowing, such as saying there was no &quot;romance&quot; in first century Palestine, or what age girls were married at, or how many children they were likely to have, or what Mary's grandmother was like. There are also several pages where Hazleton tries to have it both ways on Mary's sexuality. Obviously Mary isn't drearily celibate, but on the other hand it would be crudely rationalist to deny her virginity.  <br />  <br /> The simplest explanation is also the most reasonable. There is no evidence that Mary was a Christian, only that she survived the death of her son. Both Paul and the Gospels clearly state that Jesus had siblings. To say that they were merely cousins or kinsmen is simply gratuitous assertion, which can be gratuitously denied. Christian dogma denied Mary her family and her religion because it undercut the doctrine of perpetual virginity and, more important, the Incarnation. Hazleton does the same thing, but claims that this is an act of empowerment. Readers should not be similarly deluded.	2004-07-24
US	52562171	R2FHOCWY0FRWMR	0374261865	421932324	Shadows on the Hudson	Books	3	2	8	N	N	A failure of imagination	This book was serialized in Yiddish in 1957 and 1958 in the pages of the socialist and extremely anti-Communist Jewish Daily Forward.  Reading it reveals that it is no surprise that it took four decades for it to be translated into English.  The book deals with a handful of New York Jews, almost all of them refuges from Nazism, in the immediate post-war period.  Although most of them are in reasonably comfortable circumstances, they are almost all deeply traumatized by the Holocaust, some of which they survived, while others lost their loved ones.  At the same time the characters worry about the equivalent tyranny of Stalin at the beginning of the Cold war (a point Singer constantly reiterates) and how some of their relatives are becoming (uniformly stupid) Communists themselves.  Into this depressing situation comes the love affair between Anna Luria, daughter of the wealthy, devout businessman Boris Makaver, and Hertz Grein, a former scholar and now a successful stockbroker.  Both of the couple are married, and Grein also has a hysterical mistress that he cannot get free of.<br />So far, so interesting.  But I am afraid the book is a failure.  I can understand why Singer would be deeply pessimistic about Judaism and the fate of the world.  But the tone is one of hysteria, and however reasonable that might be as a response, it is not successful literature.  The essential ideology portrayed is that only absolute devotion to the narrowest and most rigid Orthodoxy can save modern Jewry.  The only alternatives presented are the aforementioned stupid Communists, and the most nihilistic sort of atheism.  Over and over again various characters state that a Just God could not allow this sort of suffering to His people, and that it would be better if He did not exist at all.  But then they usually conclude that atheism invariably leads to the nihilism of totalitarianism, and that therefore the most rigid Orthodoxy is the only solution.  Now granted, these characters are notSinger himself.  And there are signs that he undercuts his character's Orthodoxy.  It will not escape the reader that as Anna's and Hertz's relationship collapses it is Hertz who bemoans and wails his lot.  But it is actually Anna who goes out of her way to rescue her father from his own poor financial judgement even after he denounces her as a slut.  Meanwhile Grein is horrified that his children are both marrying Gentiles, and disassociates himself from them.  He shows no interest when his daughter-in-law thinks about converting to Judaism.  \\"I don't accuse others, only myself,\\" he claims, though in fact he has denounced his daughter as a whore for sleeping with her boyfriend.  One might think that an adulterer, who repeatedly betrays the three women he is involved with, could care more for his own children.  At another point Grein goes to a synagogue and he comments on how much more generous and kind the congregants are to him, in a way that Zionists and Communists wouldn't.  Later, however, he complains that the congregation is as selfish and envious as everyone else.  His idealization of the old Polish shetls is undercut by Dr. Margolin's reminder that he lost five siblings to infant mortality.  As the book concludes Grein claims his loyalty to Orthodoxy is absolute, even though he doesn't really believe in Sinai, or much else.  <br />So one could think that Grein is neurotic and a hypocrite.  But the fact that his perspective, repeated by several other characters, is the one that is endlessly reiterated throughout the novel can help drown out one's reservations about his conduct.  The only time Jews collectively show any dignity in the novel it is at religious functions or in the company of the Orthodox characters.  Elsewhere, whether it is on vacation, or in business, or at political meetings, or in the world of show business the characters are shockingly crass.  Another problem is the repetitive quality of the book, whether it is Grein's conversations aboutreligion or his contacts with his mistress.  The constant condemnations of pornography, of violent movies, of pro-female alimony laws are repeated without any real detail or nuance or illumination.  Were it not for the criticism of Hitler and the occasional vegetarianism, much of it could have been repeated by Al-Qaedya.  There is also an anti-feminism in the book, which only supports Grein's sexual bad faith (\\"a woman is not governed by reason but by emtions, instinct, fashion, or plain stubborness, against which rational arguments do not avail\\").  And portraying Grein as the slave of passion subtly blurs his responsibility for his sex life.  Certainly the picture of America which emerges is extremely unflattering:  assimilation at its worst.  There is almost no attempt to deal with Gentiles.  Not only is there the tactless reference to an Afrrican-American whose heart, says the book, is supposedly still in the jungle.  But the characters immediately think the worst of the Germans they occasionally run into.  Most of Singer's work tended to ignore Gentiles, but you cannot write a novel about the aftermath of the Holocaust which assumes that the vast majority of humanity consists only of shadows.	2004-07-14
US	52562171	R24GB5I247SIGI	0300101120	242653566	Fighting Napoleon	Books	3	15	17	N	N	3.4 stars; not entirely convincing	For some time now historians have been critical of the democratic claims of the French Revolution.  Where once people saw the birth of liberty, many scholars see mass indifference, active opposition and widespread fear.  So I suppose it was only a matter of time that historians would start seeing the same things about the counter-revolution as well.  And surely there is no place where the counter-revolution was as popular as Spain during the Peninsular wars?  For not only did Spain provide a guerilla warfare unmatched in the rest of Napoleonic Europe, it even provided the term &quot;guerrilla.&quot;  But not so fast, argues Charles Esdaile.  He relies on archives from Madrid, Barcelona, Tudela, Zaragoza and London, thirty-three contemporary newspapers, several dozen memoirs and contemporary accounts as well as a wide secondary literature.  The result is a stimulating, provocative work, that is not entirely convincing.<br />After discussing the basic pro-Guerrilla historiography, and then giving a brief survey of the guerrilla war which seems to vindicate them (even Joseph Bonaparte, Napoleon's brother and king of Spain, said the guerrillas undermined the Spanish position) Esdaile starts to attack.  He starts off slowly, arguing that what some people describe as guerrillas were actually local home guards.  The regular Spanish army still existed and they often provided vital assistance.  Many &quot;guerrillas&quot; were actually members of the regular army.  Now moving in to the kill, Esdaile discusses the pro-Patriot response.  The Bourbon elites still remained in power, and often had to repress angry Spaniards outraged over their corruption, brutality and use of conscription.  Indeed, in parts of Spain they were serious jacqueries, which should be distinguished from social banditry.  The guerrillas had little interest in larger social change, while the many bandits were decidedly anti-social.  Not only was there resistance to conscription, but there was also mass desertion.  Nor were the &quot;guerrillas&quot; particularly popular.  Only in Navarre, where feudalism was extremely weak and the Church atypically mild, was there real enthusiasm for partisan warfare.  Looking at the biographies of many guerrillas, Esdaile finds many lies and deceptions, and a strong streak of opportunism.  Elsewhere, there was little enthusiasm for the struggle.  People joined the guerrillas because they had to flee the consequences of their own actions, or because they were forced to by the often brutal guerrillas themselves, or because they were basically bandits.  Economic disaster made joining the guerrillas an economically rational move.  What achievements were made was the result of Napoleon's withdrawal of troops.  Elsewhere guerrillas squabbled among themselves for the most petty and selfish of reasons, while they often looted and burdened themselves on the public at large.  After the defeat of Napoleon the guerrillas' violence only intensified before they were suppressed by the state.  Many romantic liberals thought this was unfair, but gradually realized that this was right.  Finally, contrary to what people might think, few guerrillas became principled liberals; the most famous examples can really be explained by opportunism.<br />Such is Esdaile's argument.  On a first glance it looks convincing, and it is backed by many examples.  But a second glance reveals some problems.  Commenting on the roots of the guerrillas, Esdaile writes that they &quot;lay not in heroism but hunger, not daring but despair.&quot;  But surely this is too sharp a distinction.  After all one reason why many people would find the French intolerable was because of the economic crisis they encouraged.  Another problem with the emphasis on opportunism is that opportunists and ne'er do wells could join the French occupying authorities.  But they did not, or at least not enough to help them.  A larger problem is a complete lack of comparative analysis.  There is certainly no doubt that Spain caused more trouble for Napoleon than most of the rest of Europe together.  Surely there must be some explanation for this ability.  It certainly can't be the efficiency of the state or the effectiveness of the army that made Spain deadlier than the Netherlands, Switzerland or the domains of the Habsburgs.  Likewise a comparison with Vietnam would undercut Esdaile's suggestion that guerrillas have only limited tactical abilities.  And whether it is discussing wartime Greece, the French resistance or the Vietnam war, recent histories by Mark Mazower, Julian Jackson, Eric Bergerud and David Elliott have made clear that while partisans can be brutal, greedy and viewed with some skepticism by the local population, they can also receive genuine support and carry out real damage on the occupying countries.  But Esdaile has nothing to say about the rest of occupied Europe and other guerrilla wars.  Similarly if most of the guerrilla leaders were selfish, opportunistic and rapacious, were their betters in the regular army, the Absolutist state or Wellington's forces any better?  We got no clear discussion of this point, and we get even less about the guerrilla rank and file.  And Esdaile does not distinguish as well as he could between opportunism and a lack of political sophistication that would be inevitable in a country as autocratically run as Spain.  Esdaile tells us much about politics in a country whose historiography often remains shadowy even among well educated readers.  But there is an all or nothing tendency in his book that undercuts his points.	2004-07-06
US	52562171	R1D8DBQFS30Z0S	0674013395	119012653	Stranded in the Present: Modern Time and the Melancholy of History	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Rethinking history:  thoughtful or fashionable?	Peter Fritzche's new book is not so much about the past as about how people viewed it.  On the one hand the book is short, on the other hand the argument is somewhat complex and complicated, if not openly pretentious.  Basically Fritzsche argues that before the French Revolution many Europeans looked back to the past as a matter of direct relevance to their lives, while the advocates of the Enlightenment viewed the present as merely as the current point of transition in a narrative of inevitable progress.  By contrast after the French Revolution people were so shocked by the dramatic changes that a new view of history appeared.  Now the present was cut off from the past, so that people looked back to the past in an attempt to retrieve what was now irretrievably lost.  Moreover people feared that they were now stranded in the present, hence the title, with no way of moving past to another future.  In this world nostalgia took a new and dramatically increased importance.  Such subjective formats as autobiographies and diaries increased.  Fritzsche starts off by talking about the experience of the French revolutionary migrs.  And so we get a lot of comments from such usual suspects as Chateaubriand, De Stael, Gentz, the Schlegels, and De Tocqueville about the unpleasant sense of vertigo where &quot;the evidence for chastisement without salvation appeared overwhelming.&quot;  Although at one point Fritzsche says he does not think that such a perspective in history is more valid than any others, he seems to admire it for its melancholy and its implied superior realism over more fatuous, optimistic histories.  We also have a chapter on ruins, and how people in the 19th century moved away from the somewhat condescending &quot;progressive&quot; view of them to a richer view of them:  &quot;the ruin was transformed from a lifeless artifact of underdevelopment and superannuation into a a haunting relic of historical possibility.&quot;  Of particular importance is Sulpiz Boisseree and the revival of interest in the ruins of Cologne Cathedral, with its implications for a German national revival.  We then look at how people as different as Cobbett, Clare and the Grimm brothers sought to hold on and remember the past in the countryside as it faced urbanization and the growth of capitalism.  And finally we look at the &quot;household fairies&quot; as people, particularly in the United States, become interested in the mass production of memories, as New England becomes a tourist trap, Washington Irving tells ghost stories, and attics, letters, antiques, collectibles and quilts take a new prominent place in the psychic memory.  <br />What are we to say about all this?  Well it is interesting, but also somewhat subjective.  And there are good reasons for feeling a little skeptical.  On the one hand this is a study of history which does not discuss any historians (with the exception of De Tocqueville) and does not actually discuss the making of any historical work.  Another problem is what we are discussing is not so much history as memory.  Looking at the Americans Fritzsche discusses, if we can find the complex melancholic nostalgia we can also find the bland optimism and faith in progress that is present in so much 19th century views of history and religion.  Fritzche provides only some, but not enough discussion of the latter.  Another matter that arises is the cause of all this.  How do we move from the relatively small circles of French revolutionary migrs to an epic change in the popular understanding of the past?  How do we relate it to such different phenomenon as the triumph of agrarian capitalism in Europe and mass migration in the United States, which somehow all provide the same result?  And Fritzche fails to note in his discussion of the United States that one reason there was so much meaning provided to material goods was that there were more of them, while another reason there were more diaries and memoirs was because there were more people and more literate people.  What people thought about the past before they could write anything down in the 18th century is not so clear.  Certainly it is easier to claim that there was a radical change after 1792 if one does not examine the period beforehand.  If one is inclined to believe that there was a new &quot;radical nostalgia&quot; in the early 19th century period, one must be skeptical of the intellectual determinism of Franois Furet that underlies it.  At times Fritzche's book appears as an example of postmodern history, with unhelpful prose, poor logical connections and the obligatory quotes from Foucault, Butler and Kristeva.  At other times Fritzsche's book has a certain gossamer like quality.  We will have to see if it is any less fragile.	2004-07-06
US	52562171	R3EH4QNX249V0B	1565848993	506977866	Cold War Triumphalism: The Misuse of History After the Fall of Communism	Books	4	29	36	N	N	An interesting collection	The end of the cold war and the collapse of the Soviet Union has certainly encouraged American anti-communists.  Nor has this triumph merely been confined to the CPUSA or to Marxists.  Even moderate liberals like Mondale or Dukakis stand discredited in the Orwellian weltanschung.  This book is a collection of essays by a series of leading scholars which criticize this consensus.<br />There is much to be said for it.  (1) We have an essay by Carolyn Eisenberg that draws on her book on how American partioned Germany.  Discussing the Berlin Blockade, she points out the United States negoiated in bad faith, avoided possiblities to compromise, and undercut the Allied Control Council and the United Nations.  (Fortunately for the American reputation, the Canadians successfully prevented the UN Security Council President from releasing a report that would criticize the United States.)  The United States never wanted to discuss the currency questions that sparked the blockade, because it would hamper its plans to partition Germany.  Moreover, the blockade was not as complete as people think (West Berlin still had access to the rest of Berlin and the Eastern Zone).  (2) Chalmers Johnson contains a good piece of muckraking about the pathologies of American dominance.  The United States, along with Somalia is the only country to oppose the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.  It opposes the ICC, the land mines treaty, and UN resolutions to adhere to the ABM treaty.  We've learned that Chilean secret police man who ordered the Letellier/Moffit murder was a \\"paid CIA agent\\" and continued this status after blowing up a bomb in the streets of Washington.  Another DINA officer helped to torture and murder a UN official in 1976, and then served as an instructor at Fort Benning in human rights in 1987.  (3) We also have useful essays by Nelson Lichtenstein on how postwar intellectuals as varied as Schumpeter, Bell, Galbraith, Drucker and Mills thought that the new corporate factory bureaucracy was making capitalism obsolete, only to be rudely refuted by history.  (4) We have a typically nuanced essay by Leo Ribuffo discussing the morality of the cold war as discussed by Reinhold Niebuhr, William Appleman Williams and John Lewis Gaddis.  We also have more caustic essays by Bruce Cumings about the fatuities of Cold war triumphalism, taking special aim at the castrated Nietzche of Francis Fukuyama.  We also have Ellen Schrecker and Maurice Isserman provide some useful context about the VENONA spy disclosures, and Corey Robin about neoconservative rhetoric on 9/11.  (He is effective about the contrast between neoconservative chatter about noble striving and sacrifice and a free market mindset so powerful that 62 senators could vote in March 2002 against higher fuel efficiency standards.)<br />However, I would like to point out some reservations.  (1) There is nothing that directly discusses John Earl Haynes' recent polemic \\"In Denial\\" which accuses several of the contributors of being like Holocaust deniers.  (2) Not all of the essays are equally useful.  Michael Bernstein's paper just reiterates the flaws of Reaganomics.  An article by Marilyn Young on the Vietnam War and the Gulf Wars is uninspiring, as is another paper on the role of the United Nations.  There is little new material; the Lichtenstein and Ribuffo articles are an exception.  (3)  There is little specifically on Eastern Europe, except for the Eisenberg essay on the Berlin Blockade.  This makes Ribuffo's comment, that historical research suggests that the Soviets were rather hesistant about invading Hungary in 1956, all the more tantalizing.  (4)  The articles do not all agree on everything.  That in itself is not a problem, but I must make a reservation over Ribuffo's discussion of Williams.  Williams was willing to grant Japan a sphere of influence in China, and the USSR a sphere in Eastern Europe.  But Japan's conduct in China was incredibly vicious, and the United States was not obliged to sell them the materials to conduct war there.  Nor was it unfair to wish that the Warsaw Pact countries were as democratic as Finland, though somewhat hypocritical that dictatorships in the rest of the world could be glibly ignored.  And to describe neoconservatives as \\"utopian,\\" as Robin does, for claiming to encourage the spread of democracy is to give them too much credit and to take their rhetoric at face value.ed States was not obliged to sell them the materials to conduct war there.  Nor was it unfair to wish that the Warsaw Pact countries were as democratic as Finland, though somewhat hypocritical that dictatorships in the rest of the world could be glibly ignored.  And to describe neoconservatives as \\"utopian,\\" as Robin does, for claiming to encourage the spread of democracy is to give them too much credit and to take their rhetoric at face value.	2004-06-30
US	52562171	R20Y3YHDXIBX52	0195167104	406408547	Shifting Sands: The Rise and Fall of Biblical Archaeology	Books	3	23	28	N	N	2.5 stars; kind of slim	Thomas Davis' book discusses the fate of biblical archaeology, concentrating on the figure of William G. Albright.  Albright dominated the field of Palestinian Archaeology in the mid-century.  He gained a certain popular prominence by arguing that he could show the existence of the patriarchal narratives in Genesis as well as the conquest narratives in Joshua.  But by the sixties and seventies people became increasingly skeptical about Albright's methods and arguments.  And by the eighties and nineties, a full-fledged &quot;minimalism&quot; had broken out, which argued that the entire biblical narrative before the Persian period was essentially little more than a myth.<br />People who read this book will assume they will be learning the truth behind the Hebrew scriptures.  Actually much of the slim book discusses more prosaic matters.  There is a discussion of the origins of modern Palestinian archaeology since the beginning of the nineteenth century.  Davis discusses a laundry list of archaeological institutions, collegial squabbles, financial troubles, and problems over the French and British mandates in the interwar period.  There is also a history of archeaological techniques.  Modern Palestinian archaeology requires the mastery of three techniques:  intense recording of archaeological detail, complex understanding of pottery evolution as a guide to dating, and subtle understanding of stratigraphic principles.  Albright was a master of the first two techniques, but had problems with the third.  Davis goes to some length to argue that Albright was not a crude fundamentalist.  He presented himself as a &quot;moderate&quot; between biblical literalists and theological liberals.  Indeed, his wife converted to Catholicism, he readily agreed that archaeological dating trumped biblical chronology, and did not waste his life looking for the remains of Noah Ark.  <br />On the other hand his theological parti pris and his intense opposition to the Wellhausen thesis clearly led him to commit a number of striking non-sequiturs.  Early in his career he found the remains of urbanization in the area of the fabled &quot;cities of the plains.&quot;  After exploring the cemetery and finding objects whose ceremonial purpose was unknown, Albright announced that he had found Sodom, no doubt with its licentious practices.  Later on Albright sought to vindicate the truth of Abraham.  Since he could not prove his existence directly, Albright sought to argue that phenomenon in the patriarchal narratives, like nomadism and certain legal customs, were present at the time in question.  But this involved misdating things by several centuries.  His discussion of the conquest focused on several destroyed sites that could be dated to the thirteenth century BCE.  This would imply that those areas had been destroyed by Joshua and his armies.  That did not actually follow.  Moreover, it ignored the fact that there were other sites of destruction before and after this period, while later archaeological research found more continuity than the conquest thesis suggested.  There was also the fact that there were no such signs of destruction at two of Joshua's most prominent victories, Jericho and Ai.  As Davis admits &quot;The archaeology was used to correct the biblical record, which was used to interpet the archaeology, a circular trap.&quot;  <br />On the whole though, this book is too slim a discussion of its subject.  The debates between maximalists and minimalists are discussed rather cursorily.  Certainly if one wanted a thorough discussion of the Exodus, the Conquest, and the United Monarchy one would have to go elsewhere.  Except to underplay it, there is little account of Albright's theological beliefs.  There is nothing here like Keith Whitelaw's acidulous criticism of Albright for blanding accepting the barbarities of the conquest.  Considering this is a book about the history of Israel, there is little discussion of Israeli archaeology and its possible nationalist biases.  And although Albright called himself an orientalist, there is no discussion of orientalism.  There is however a mention of Thomas Kuhn's theory of paradigm shift, the sort of thing one expects to find to pad a reheated doctoral dissertation, which is what this book essentially is.	2004-06-29
US	52562171	R2G9VXW5AT4DTL	1402718373	237799555	Cracking the Da Vinci Code: The Unauthorized Guide to the Facts Behind Dan Brown's Bestselling Novel	Books	2	17	33	N	N	Shallow	Do you know that some members of the Knights Templar, after the suppression of their order in 1307, moved to Scotland and helped Robert Bruce in his successful battle to force out the English?  Well, this books says they did.  It doesn't give a source, and the suggested reading at the back is heavily filled with questionable new age works.  And you might wonder why an order whose main function before 1307 was international banking would care about a dynastic squabble on the periphery of Europe.  But of course, such suggestions appeals to the romantic for whom tales of Clerical treachery, secret organizations and romanticized national myths all uncritically merge together.<br />As a book this book has little to offer, and hardly provides the facts behind &quot;The Da Vinci Code.&quot;  It contains padded discussions of the Cathars and the myths of Isis and Osiris, although these elements do not really play much a role in the book.  About the dramatic claims Dan Brown makes, such as that Mary Magdalene was the wife of Jesus, or that she appears in Da Vinci's &quot;The Last Supper,&quot; or whether there is a secret Priory of Sion with earthshattering secrets that has been led in the past by Da Vinci, Newton, Hugo, Debussy and Cocteau, the book is somewhat wishy washy.  Cox doesn't exactly endorse these claims, but he certainly doesn't look at the evidence that would refute these claims.  There is a certain sort of disingenousness, which gives Brown more seriousness than he deserves.  At one point, for instance, Cox notes, correctly, that thousands of women were killed in the witch-hunts.  This differs from Brown's claim that &quot;millions&quot; were killed, but Cox does not point this out.  Cox also claims that these witch-hunts were done to stop a revival of Goddess worship.  In fact as recent witchcraft scholarship as pointed out by Ronald Hutton has made quite clear, there is no evidence that any of the condemned witches belonged to a satantic or pre-Christian religion.  <br />And Cox continues with other examples of shallowness and misinformation.  The New Testament was not &quot;supposedly&quot; confirmed at the Council of Nicea.  Constantine was not baptized in 326, but in 337 on his deathbed (oddly enough, this is one fact Dan Brown gets right).  The Nag Hammadi material are not &quot;undoubtedly&quot; a product of the Coptic church.  If they were, they would have been preserved by them.  Arianism denies the equality of Jesus the Son with the Father; it does not deny his divinity altogether.  The Christian idea of forgiveness after repentance does not come from Isis; it clearly has its roots in Jewish doctrine.  At the beginning of his book Cox says that The Da Vinci Code will no doubt make a great movie, since it will supposedly star Russell Crowe and be directed by Ron Howard.  I've both read the book and seen &quot;A Beautiful Mind,&quot; and this strikes me as the perfect example of naivetee to start off this questionable book.	2004-06-23
US	52562171	R2ECN7TFUHP8H2	0806522690	441449140	The Evil 100	Books	2	9	13	N	N	The banality of writing a cheap book about evil	There are many things wrong with this book as a list, and as a discussion of the problem of evil.  But consider just one thing.  This is a collection of malefactors that Islamic fanatics would approve of.  Of course Osama Bin Laden makes number 8, and so do the Taliban and Saddam Hussein.  But that's to be expected from Americans.  But how could they not admire a book in which 46 of the world's most evil people come from the United States?  When you add people from Britain, Australia and Canada you get a solid majority from the Anglo-American world.  And so many of their crimes involve sexual perversity and anonymous murder, which clearly trumps religious bigotry and systematic injustice in the author's scale of evils. Basically this is a book that starts off with the most infamous tyrants (Hitler is number one), and after the first twenty and thirty places, goes on to discuss mass murderers and serial killers.  The four Presidential assassins are included, and the book rounds out with the Marquis De Sade and virus writers.  Aside from inadvertently giving aid to comfort to America's enemies by suggesting it has, if not a monopoly of evil, controlling interest in it, the book is superficial and unpleasant to read.  The book combines a shallow moralism with a lurid interest in their subject's atrocities, a sort of pornography for Republicans.  The moral questions are not really addressed.  For a start many of the book's subjects are patently insane, even by the strict and pro-Prosecutor guidelines of Anglo-American law.  Is it useful to describe as evil someone who does not have the capacity for moral choice, or which is constrained by severe psychological problems?  Sure, says the author.  It doesn't matter that Martin Bryant, the Tasmanian mass murderer had an IQ of 66 or that Caligula may have been suffering from schizophrenia or epilepsy.    <br />Reading the earlier entries one wondered how many of the charges against Genghis Khan, Attila the Hun, Ivan IV (the Terrible) or Vlad III (the Impaler, who makes the top 10) are actually true or are just propaganda.  Good question, since Vlad III's status rests more on the idea that he was the inspiration for Dracula.  The suspicion increases when the entry on Hussein starts by blaming him for the anthrax mailings in the fall of 2001, something which he clearly was not responsible for.  The historical analysis is not very deep.  Salvador Allende was not a Communist.  There is no good reason for having Eichmann appear before Himmler, his superior, nor did he have to face 15 charges at Nuremberg.  The book overstates the severity and intensity of the persecution of Christians as a result of Nero, while at the time ignoring his destruction of Jerusalem.  Likewise Tojo's treatment of American POWs gets more condemnation than the way the treated the rest of Asia.  Mussolini's worst acts, his African atrocities, get little space.  And there is much that is missing.  Neither Khomenei or the Shah appear; the African slave trade is completely ignored, and so is apartheid.  Idi Amin Dada appears, but the perpetrators of the Rwandan genocide are missed.  The Belgian Rulers who may have caused the deaths of 15 million Congolese in their occupation of the country are forgotten.  The whole bloody subjugation of the Western hemisphere goes unmentioned, so there is nothing on how Pizarro managed to destroy and enslave an entire civilization out of sheer greed.  The Thirty Years War, the Crusades, the conquest of Ireland, the suppression of the Dutch Revolt are all ignored.  If Stalin's and Mao's famines are to be condemned what about the Irish potato famine or the (several) Bengal famines?  Mobuto, Suharto, D'Aubisson, Stroessener and the rulers of Guatemala get no mention.  Nor, needless to say, do Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  If Garfield's assasin deserves an entry, shouldn't Gandhi's?  (Or for that matter the assassins of Indira or Rajiv Gandhi?)  Charles Guiteau was just a disgruntled office seeker and Garfield a mediocre politician.  The assassins of Gandhi, Luxembourg, Jaures, Rabin, King, Barthou, Bloch, Milk and Moscone were fascists or something close to it.  And what about the judicial murder of Thomas More or Margaret Pole?  McKinley's conquest of the Philippines involved many atrocities and the death of one in seven Filipinos.  Shouldn't he rank higher than his killer?	2004-06-23
US	52562171	R1Q9V9T43BHYJM	1593150229	232926737	Secrets of the Code: The Unauthorized Guide to the Mysteries Behind The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	88	161	N	N	If you must read a book on "The Da Vinci Code" read page 130	Because when you turn to page 130 you will find the biblical scholar Bart Ehrman providing ten reasons why \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" is conspiratorial, supersititious nonsense.  For a start, first century Judaism did allow precedents for celibacy, so there was no reason why Jesus had to be married.  The Nag Hammadi material does not emphasize Jesus' humanity.  Often it does the opposite.  By the time of the Council of Nicea, a large majority of Christians believed in Jesus' divinity.  There is no evidence that Mary Magdalene came from the House of Benjamin, or that she was pregnant.  And my favorite, the Dead Sea Scrolls are, contra Dan Brown, entirely Jewish and have nothing directly to do with Christianity at all.<br />This book is a collection of articles and interviews which look at the questions and mysteries the book raises.  If you have little patience with Dan Brown's pseudo-historical tripe and are worried that other people might believe its preposterous fairy tales, there is much in this book that will satisfy you.  There are a whole host of plot holes in the book.  For a start the hero Robert Langdon points out an anagram in Latin that only works in English.  Elsewhere a character reads an English Bible in a French church, while an anagram is made of \\"Mona Lisa\\" unaware that Da Vinci did not use or originiate the title of his most famous painting.  For some odd reason Brown says the Council of Nicea was four centuries after Jesus' death when clearly it was less than three.  Alexander Pope did not preside over Isaac Newton's funeral, though he did write an epitaph several years afterwards.  There is also an article on the Plantard affair.  Plantard claimed to have documents that linked Jesus, the Merovingian dynasty, the Knights Templar, the Masons, the Holy Grail and the Priory of Sion, which has supposedly been led by Da Vinci, Newton, Victor Hugo, Debussy and Plantard himself.  From his documents came forth \\"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail,\\" and 20 years later \\"The Da Vinci Code.\\"  But as it turns out, Plantard had a history of financially dubious transactions and links to right-wing anti-semetic groups.  There is no reason to believe the documents are anything other than forgeries.<br />Unfortunatley, the book is not a detailed refutation of Brown and there is a \\"balance\\" between serious scholarship and irresponsible credulous journalism.  So on the one hand we get excerpts from a couple of books by Elaine Pagels, interviews with James A. Robinson, and excerpts from selected Gnostic gospels.  We also have an interesting interview from a scholar who points out that Pope Gregory's conflation of Mary Magdalene with several women of loose virtue was an accident, not a misogynist conspiracy.  We also have a debate between Kenneth Woodward and Karen King.  Woodward argues that it is not clear that the letters to Timothy and the Gospel of Mary were written at roughly the same time.  It is possible that Mary was written several decades afterwards.  King, rather disappointingly does not respond to this point.<br />But you also have to look at an excerpt from \\"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail,\\" as well as some other pseudo-historical excerpts about the Templars and Mary Magdalene as Jesus' wife.  Passages quoted by Timothy Freke show the flaws of this sort of scholarship.  Freke describes Philo as a Gnostic (he was not). He refers to the \\"Jewish God Jehovah,\\" when \\"Jehovah\\" is actually an attempt to prounce \\"YHWH\\" with the vowels of \\"Adonai\\" and \\"Elohim.\\"  He says the Gospels refer to Mary Magdalene as the \\"prostitute lover\\" of Jesus when in fact the Gospels do not describe her as either.  Freke argues that Jesus never actually existed, a view not supported by any serious scholar, and decisively refuted in the first volume of John Meier's \\"A Marginal Jew.\\"  We get both sides of the debate over \\"The Last Supper,\\" and not surprisingly Brown does not come out looking well.  (If the person commonly believed to be John is actuallya woman, than where is John?  And which apostle doesn't show up at all?  And couldn't any feminine qualities in John refer to his youth [he was by tradition the youngest of the disciples] and to Da Vinci's own homosexuality?)<br />People may think it is useful to compare both sides in a debate about history.  But it is one thing to compare articles on the French Revolution.  It is another to include serious scholarship and gratuitous nonsense and pretend to be neutral between them.  Would we respect a book that included serious scholarship on the Holocaust with the ravings of apologists and neo-Nazis who pretend to deny it?  Obviously the theories of \\"the Da Vinci Code\\" are not that malevolent, but they are not more intelligent.  Still, though Burnstein loses points for cowardice, there is a certain pedagogic value in this book.	2004-06-20
US	52562171	RCTV80YBF52TI	0199255172	13688293	Athenian Democratic Origins: and other essays	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Master's Verdicts	Before his death in 2000, Geoffrey Ernest Maurice De Ste. Croix was one of the leading classical historians in the world.  He showed that Marxist theories can be applied fruitfully to the Hellenic world in his 1981 work &quot;The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World.&quot;  His works were striking for their thoroughness and their careful analysis.  What we have here is a collection of essays on the early Hellenic world which were written in the sixties.  They have been collected and edited by David Harvey and Robert Parker, and contain scholarly updates on the subjects at hand.  Most readers will find these essays extremely technical.  They do not have the common theme of &quot;The Class Struggle,&quot; nor of his first book, &quot;The Origins of the Peloponnesian Wars.&quot;  And whereas in those books Ste. Croix was capable of wit and the sharp piercing insight, many readers will find much less of that here.  (The one exception is a joke Ste. Croix tells about Herodotus, where responding to the claim that Herodotus was the father of history, he adds yes, since history proper started the next generation with Thucydides.)  They will not find them particularly Marxist, but there is a stress on such important themes as the rationality of democratic institutions and an emphasis on the primitive nature of the classical economy. <br />Particularly technical are the first two essays which look respectively at the Solonian Census Classes and the Solonian constitution.  They are marked by an extremely close analysis of the few remaining sources.  The most interesting part of the first essay is a discussion in which Ste. Croix shows that Aristotle was wrong about particular measures.  Building on a classic essay he wrote on Greek Accounting, Ste. Croix points out that the measures could not have been based on money values because Greek Accounting was not developed enough to differentiate between &quot;profit&quot; and &quot;loss.&quot;  The following essays help vindicate the good sense of Athenian democracy.  Ste. Croix argues that sortition, or selection by lot, was not as foolish, or as widespread, or as democratic as other scholars might have thought.  He discusses the constitution of Cleisthenes and argues against those who claim Cleisthenes manipulated it to enhance his own power.  After all, Cleisthenes was probably in his sixties when his reforms were made.  Ste. Croix also argues that ostracism was not the irrational practice many scholars think.  In an age without political parties it could stop prominent politicians who could get elected without a clear platform but whose acts were clearly opposed by the majority.  In contrast to banishment, the citizenship and the property of the ostracized were not taken away from him, and he could return to high office after ten years.  Nor was the law invoked all the time.  Often it ignored for a decade or two, and stopped altogether after a particularly unfortunate case in 417.  Ste. Croix also discusses the Athenian citizenship laws in a provisional paper. He argues that its restrictions on granting citizenship to those whose parents were not citizens were designed not so much against Athenians who married foreigners as against Athenians who sought to give citizenship to their and their slave's children.  The law still hampers the lives of slaves, but at least the Athenians appear less xenophobic. <br />The longest single chapter is a discussion of Aristotle's &quot;Athenian Politeia.&quot;  Although Ste. Croix is often very critical of Aristotle's arguments throughout the book, the essay here seeks to support his basic reliability.  He argues that the book was the product to a large extent of Aristotle's own research, and Aristotle may have been the first person to really use archival sources.  In contrast he argues that Aristotle did not rely on Androtion, which is a good thing for the &quot;Athenian Politeia&quot;'s reliability, since Androtion wrote in exile and would not havebeen able to do much research there.  There are then two fine chapters on trade and colonization.  With a few minor exceptions, trade was not the cause of Greek colonization; land hunger was.  We can see that from Greek laws which showed little interest in exports (the contrast with Commercial Carthage was striking).  Greek colonization efforts (such as in Syracuse) often dispossessed the original inhabitants from their lands.  This makes eminent sense if the Greeks were basing their economy on agriculture, little sense if they were merchants searching for people to trade with.  Scholars have often argued that Aegina was an exception, ruled by commercial merchants.  Ste. Croix thoroughly refutes this idea, with its &quot;proto-capitalist&quot; implications.  Pindar's references to Aegina use praise common to landed aristocracies.  The fact that there are many references to boats should not imply that traders were crucial to its existence.  As the editors properly note, Aegina was an island:  if they wanted to meet other people one of them would have to use a boat.  There are few Aeginian merchants mentioned, nor is the land as infertile as people think.  As for coinage, Aegina may have introduced coinage first, but only by a couple of decades.  And anyway the correlation between coinage and commercial trade is unclear; Phoenicia and Carthage were great trading centers but their coinage developed relatively late.  After getting though this complex, difficult book, one is struck by Ste. Croix's thoroughness, his careful rumination over every fact and interpretation.  (The contrast with Allan Bloom's edition of The Republic, published around this time, is striking).  Now we will wait to see if Oxford will publish the essays on Christianity that Ste. Croix spent the last twenty years of his life working on.	2004-06-16
US	52562171	RR9CR4QCJZN4J	0801878403	979932750	Essential Cinema: On the Necessity of Film Canons	Books	4	69	71	N	N	Welcome to a new world of cinema	Jonathan Rosenbaum's new volume of film criticism is somewhat different from his earlier collections.  Long critical of the hegemony of Hollywood and the way commerical hype has overshadowed criticism, Rosenbaum's new book pays strikingly little attention to movies the average American is likely to have heard of, let alone seen.  Whereas past volumes contained notable polemics against Woody Allen, &quot;Mississipi Burning,&quot; and &quot;Forrest Gump,&quot; Hollywood pictures are rather rare here.  There are Rosenbaum's vigorous defences of &quot;Eyes Wide Shut,&quot; and &quot;A.I.&quot;, as well as a unsurpringly contemptuous article on &quot;Pretty Woman.&quot; There is a cold dissection of the evasions of &quot;Taxi Driver&quot; that is especially acute about how Travis Bickle's racism is whitewashed, so to speak.  &quot;Fargo&quot; is compared to Krzysztof Kieslowski's &quot;Decalogue&quot; and does not come off well in the bargain.  There are unsurprisingly respectful articles in praise of &quot;Greed&quot;, &quot;M&quot;, &quot;Rear Window,&quot; and Orson Welles.  Somewhat on the edge of the average American moviegoer's consciousness, there are articles in praise of &quot;Ghost Dog,&quot; and &quot;Waking Life.&quot;  <br />But overall this is a book that is decidedly internationalist and highbrow in its choice, although Rosenbaum's reasoning can lead to the most surprising choices.  One should look at the appendix where Rosenbaum lists his one thousand favorite movies, with his favorite one hundred starred with an asterix.  Rather strikingly, only six Oscar winners for best picture make the list, and only one, &quot;The Best Years of Our Lives,&quot; makes his top one hundred.  Only one nominee for Best Picture since 1988, 1998's &quot;The Thin Red Line,&quot; makes the list.  Yet almost every major film-maker appears on this list at least once.  Although James Cameron is one of the few exceptions, Blake Edwards appears with &quot;The Party,&quot; while Brian de Palma appears twice, including 2002's underrated &quot;Femme Fatale.&quot;  This is a list where Steven Spielberg is represented by his two biggest commercial disappointments.  This is a list where &quot;Bram Stoker's Dracula,&quot; trumps &quot;The Godfather&quot; movies, where &quot;Bitter Moon&quot; outraces &quot;Chinatown&quot; and &quot;Tess,&quot; where &quot;King of Comedy,&quot; beats &quot;Taxi Driver,&quot; &quot;Raging Bull,&quot; and &quot;Goodfellas,&quot; and where &quot;The Young Girls of Rochefort&quot; and &quot;Guys and Dolls,&quot; are Rosenbaum's favorite musicals.  At the same time &quot;Ishtar&quot; is one of Rosenbaum's favorite Hollywood films from the eighties.  Meanwhile Chaplin, Welles, Hitchcock, Godard, Bresson, and Kiarostami take pride of place.  <br />Looking from this list back to the book proper we see many articles which help explain the many movies on the list that American readers are unlikely to have heard of.  The choices are almost defiantly internationalist, highbrow and experimental, and with the exception of J. Hoberman, it is hard to think of any comparable critic sharing the same values and willing to ignore the middlebrow consensus.  Who would have thought, before looking at this book, that the most important filmakers in the world today came from Iran and Taiwan?  Who would remind its readers that French cinema is not dead but in fact making major works deserving of our attention?  Who, on the other hand, would object to the inaccurate sneer that the French are overly fond of Jerry Lewis, but devote an article to one of his directors, Frank Tashlin?  In reminding us of Hollywood directors who need to be remembered, who would choose Otto Preminger?  And so we get praise of Communist documentarian Jorge Iven's final film.  We also read about the perestroika experiment &quot;The Asthenic Syndrome,&quot; and the 7 hour Hungarian film &quot;Satantango.&quot;  Although he praises experimental films from Guy Maddin andRaul Ruiz, he can also praise Jacques Rivette's &quot;Up Down Fragile,&quot; as a subtly utopian unprofessional musical.  He can devote an article on Bunuel to one of his least known works &quot;The Young One.&quot;  And he can praise him, Anthony Mann, Charles Burnett, Bela Tarr and other film makers for their moral subtlety and their generous sympathy in the way they eschew simple moralism and simple heroes and villians.    <br />How does one praise a critic when one hasn't seen, or even heard of most of the movies he reviews?  Looking more closely I might wish that he expanded his criticism of Robert Warshow and his comments in praise of &quot;My Son John,&quot; an anti-communist thriller that Warshow argued was an attack on rational thought.  And comparisons between the post-war Soviet film scene and cold war Hollywood strike me as a bit glib.  On the other hand, Rosenbaum possesses striking virtues, such as independence of mind, a strong appreciation of the formal qualities of a film, and an intense curiosity about other cultures.  Anyone reading this book will learn about hordes of filmmakers who have not received their due.  These are invaluable qualities, especially in a world where many critics are simply bought and paid for, while others are just not very bright, and others still are so numbed by trivial Hollywood blockbusters they're suckers for the fall and winter Oscarbait.	2004-06-09
US	52562171	RXJHG0FNW1BEE	0691117888	530787095	More Equal Than Others: America from Nixon to the New Century (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Tell me something I don't know	Godfrey Hodgson is a distinguished journalist whose new history of the past thirty years of American history is published with the help of The Century Foundation.  There is something offsetting about the foreword written by Century Foundation president Richard Leone, which seems to apologize beforehand for being critical about the current United States and eager to remind people that Hodgson is a friend of the United States.  The book itself starts off with the free market consensus and then goes on to discuss the new post-Nixon politics.  And so get familiar treatments of the fall of the Democratic South, the rise of the taxpayer's rebellion, and the corruptions of party financing.  We then have a chapter on the internet which makes what should be the obvious point that it did not spring from the heads of a few Titanic entrepreneurs but arose from a long history of government and public support.  We then have a chapter on the new economy which points out the underside of wage stagnation and increasing inequality.  In Spring 1999 average wages were actually 10% lower than in 1973.  If we use market exchange rates to measure income the Scandinavian countries and Switzerland make more money than the United States.  Productivity growth is lower than France or Italy.  We then have a chapter each on immigrants, women and African-Americans which notes progress but also delays and residual hostility.  We then have a chapter on the new society which focuses on the problems of suburbanization, mass transport, the decline of sport, the decline of community and the increased atomization of the American public.  We then look at the new world order of American domination.  The result of all this is there has been an &quot;unquestioning faith in untrammeled free-market capitalism,&quot; that needs to be questioned and moderated. <br />All good and well, one might think, but the result is like reading a collection of special Newsweek articles.  We are not learning anything new.  The total is not really very deep.  Although Hodgson is aware of the limits of Clinton's policies his book is not much more adventurous or radical.  There is some good stuff about the blind hostility of many Americans to mass transit.  Hodgson is also more interested in trade unions to be sure, and cites Nelson Licthenstein to good effect, but it would be better to read Lichtenstein than Hodgson himself.  Tom Frank, whom Hodgson also mentions, would be a better critic of the cant of &quot;free market populism.&quot;  One would be better off reading Susan Faludi and Deborah Rhode on women, Stephanie Coontz and Rickie Sollinger on the family, or Mike Davis on Hispanic immigration.  Raymond Garthoff would be a better guide on foreign policy in the seventies and eighties.  The bibliography is anything but exhaustive.  There is a whole corpus of scholarship on gender and race.  Why confine oneself to the memoirs of Susan Brownmiller and Gloria Steinem on abortion, or the thoughts of Shelby Steele and Elias Cose?  A certain journalist fatuousness sets in, such as when Hodgson says the Internet &quot;may be the most important single innovation there has ever been.&quot;  (At other times Hodgson is more wary, pointing out that the effect of the internet isn't clear in some cases and its impact on productivity has been overestimated in others.)  In his chapter on American politics he says that ideological differences between the two parties have never been so clear, while later he says that the political differences are actually rather slight.  In fact, he confuses ideology with rhetoric, just as he earlier overestimates the liberalism of Northern Republicans before Nixon.  There is a tendency in the chapter on race to discuss how people feel about it than what they actually experience.  And television, films, literature, music; all of the these get only fleeting mention. <br />Consider, as an example, the chapter on foreign affairs.  We have a brief and somewhat misleading survey of foreign policy in the seventies.  The Civil war of Angola appears as an act of Soviet aggression, whereas the American conspiring with South Africa and Zaire so detailed in Piero Gleijeses' Conflicting Missions goes unmentioned.  The Sandinistas are falsely said to have &quot;abandoned their claims to be considered democrats.&quot;  Samuel Huntington gets treated with too much respect.  The failure of Boris Yeltsin only gets a paragraph.  The Israeli-Palestinian conflict gets ignored, as does genocide in Bosnia and Rwanda.  Environmental problems and the environment in general do not appear in the Index.  There are a few doubts about globalization and about the smug chauvinism of much American foreign policy.  But the overall result is superficial.  What could be said about this chapter can be said for all the others:  one reads and realizes that it could be so much better.	2004-06-02
US	52562171	R2FBW5B032O1YJ	0674011511	662185204	Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Out of this crooked timber of humanity...	If one agrees that not everything about the Soviet Union was pre-ordained, then the collectivization was the crucial turning point.  The brutality involved and the millions of deaths from the resulting famine was the greatest single atrocity of the Soviet regime, far outnumbering the victims of the purges.  Not only did collectivization bring to fruition all the worst features of the Soviet regime such as gross brutality, callous indifference in the name of progress, the most fanatical and intolerant one-party culture, and the worst sort of bureaucratic mediocrity, it also burdened the Soviet Union with a crippled agricultural sector that it was never able to cure.  And yet, at the time Americans knew little about it.  The way that New York Times journalist Walter Duranty helped to euphemize the famine has become infamous.  <br />But the problem was larger, much larger than the blindness of a few socialist intellectuals and the corruption of one spectacular journalist, as David Engerman points out in his important new book.  One might imagine liberals and technocrats and socialists failing to appreciate the cruel truth.  But what can we say about the attitude of Hoover's State Department?  These people also showed little concern.  Yet these people were so hostile to Communism they ensured that the United States was one of the few countries in the world that refused to recognize the Soviet Union.  The problem, as Engerman details, arose from several key western prejudices, even if he does not fully recognize their complete importance.  Americans were enthusiasts for progress and modernization.  Many of them by the twenties were believers in a planned economy and this belief only increased with the Great Depression.   The key problem for Russia and the later Soviet Union was that the overwhelming peasant population did not fit American plans for modernization, (or that of their rulers).   For decades many Americans believed in a \\"national character\\" view of Russians that condemned them as \\"savage, hopeless, and helpless.\\"   There were exceptions, such as the first American translator of Tolstoy who uncritically supported czarism.  And there were the supporters of American intervention in 1917 who deluded themselves into thinking that the Russian peasantry had swept aside Czarism in a wave of instinctive patriotism.  But once the Soviets fell, the belief that the peasants had become lawless, anarchistic and hopeless was widespread.  Wilson's Secretary of State, Robert Lansing, believed that the Russians needed a strong firm hand from a right-wing dictator.   <br />As the twenties progressed this chauvinist attitude was replaced by the more hopeful, universalistic attitudes as Russian Studies became professionalised and institutionalized in the nation's universities.  But the view of the Russian peasant as hopelessly backward and \\"Asiatic\\" did not go away.  There was a natural sympathy from many Americans towards the technocratic, modernizing plans of the Soviet state.  In one of the most interesting chapters, there is a long discussion of how Duranty, Louis Fischer, Eugene Lyons and William Henry Chamberlin viewed the Soviet famines.  Engerman shows how Lyons and Chamberlin, who became heroes on the American right for revealing the famine's existence, showed the same anti-peasant prejudices that Duranty and Fischer did.  Based on dozens of sets of private papers, and including a helpful biographical essay, Engerman points out the weaknesses of both particularism, with its enormous condescension towards people of other countries, and of universalism, which tends to believe that people are identical, and especially identical with Americans.  It is with his quotations of Herzen in his introduction that Engerman strikes the wrong note.   \\"To sacrifice others, and to be self-sacrificing on their behalf, is too easy a virtue.\\"  Later on Engerman quotes Herzen's comparison of modern ideologies and panaceas to the great idol Moloch to which children were sacrificed by being burned alive.  But it is not quite fair to say that Russophiles were asking Russians to make sacrifices they themselves were not going to make.  After all, in their dreams of progress, they were assuming that the Russians would become \\"modern\\" and \\"progressive,\\" like Americans themselves.  There would therefore be no need for Americans to sacrifice for what they had already achieved.  More important, the reason that contempt for the Russian peasantry crossed ideological lines was because they were not capitalist farmers.  Had they been capitalist farmers with capitalist property their dispossession would have caused more outrage.  But they weren't, so it didn't.  More to the point, capitalist agricultural modernization going back to Robert Young and the proponents of enclosure argues that peasants hamper economic progress.  Dispossessing them in one way or another has been a hallmark of capitalist growth for centuries, (never more so than in the past half-century as E.H. Hobsbawm's \\"The Age of Extremes\\" points out).  Engerman's failure to really appreciate this is a weakness.  He also fails to realize that in order to provide a more humane alternative of economic growth for the Soviet Union, an economic theory based on respecting peasants would have had to exist.  And given the lack of experience in the United States for such a sympathy, that was not going to happen.	2004-05-26
US	52562171	RBO7KMXDOTSXK	0195156668	298166809	The Cute and the Cool: Wondrous Innocence and Modern American Children's Culture	Books	3	22	25	N	N	"I believe that children are our future..."	Gary Cross's book starts out with a painful paradox, and then becomes less subtle and nuanced as it goes on.  There is something obsessive with our desire for childhood innocence, there is something unhealthy as we try to find spiritual meaning them by showering them with gifts and ensnaring them in the consumer marketplace.  \\"We buy more things for the little ones at birthdays and holidays than research shows they want, and then we fret when older children seem so insatiable....We want kids to be kids, and yet we force our young into early adulthood when we introduce them to the consumer market.\\"  Cross discusses how children became idealized and innocent at the beginning of this century (\\"the cute\\") in such a way as to allow a certain a naughtiness.  But as time went on, children began to react to the saccharine excess of innocence and became hipper, more saracastic (\\"the cool\\").  Adults became worried at these trends and began to engage in mostly unhelpful moralistic panics, becoming alarmed at video games, comic books, smoking and other pastimes.  <br />Cross starts off with looking at ideals of \\"sheltered\\" and \\"wondrous\\" innocence, and found that the child psychologist supported elitist tone of the first was undermined by the commercial qualities of the second.  He then provides a chapter on the image of the cute child in such areas as advertisements, dolls, the rise of teddy bears and Shirley Temple.  He then goes on to discuss the charming urchins and coquettes that we see in such comic strips as Buster Brown, the Katzenjammer Kids and Dennis the Menace.  We then have a chapter on how holidays became more child-centered.  Although somewhat over-reliant on John Gillis' A World of their Making, many people will be intrigued to learn how little a role children played in modern holidays until the last century began.  The ritual of small children trick or treating did not really get underway until the thirties.   Christmas celebrations were much older, but they tended to be more rambunctious and adult-centered until the nineteenth century.   Santa Claus did not gel into his present form until Thomas Nast's 1879 illustration.   Likewise \\"Happy Birthday to You\\" dates to 1893 and family vacations from the late forties and fifties.   After discussing Disney World as the apotheosis of the family vacation, Cross then discusses the origins of the Cool.  We see the domestication of the Disney cartoon.  We see the replacement of Tom Swift and the Hardy Boys with pulp fiction and comic books.  The Cool keeps making headway as we see the rise of cartoons in the sixties (as late as 1960 children had to wait until 10:30 Saturday morning to see them), the rise of Barbie dolls and GI Joe, and the birth of video games.  We see attempts to control the Cool, tainted with snobbish and racist fears, with proposals to censor movies, ban toy weapons, outlaw Pinball, control comic books, regulate children's television advertising, and preventing youth smoking.   As Cross concludes his book we can see that he has discussed a wide range of examples.<br />But he has not been correspondingly deep.  It's not just that some of his details aren't right.  Contrary to what he says the children in \\"Carrie\\" and \\"The Shining\\" are not possessed by the devil.  And whereas Cross says that Dennis the Menace is never punished, I can remember a lot of cartoons where he ends up sitting in the corner.  And whether children take the Katzenjammer Kids' antics in good fun depends, I would suggest on how they react to seeing them spanked at the end of every strip.  The larger problem with Cross lies with his conclusions.  To wit, the commercial manipulation of children can be crass, but much of it is inevitable.  It would be moralistic, elitist and ascetic to be excessively concerned about it.  But then genuine empathy for children can transcend selfish adult uses of innocence.  It is rather Clintonesque, seeing both sides of the question, providing good wishes for the left, while leaving the economic interests of the right untouched.   (The discussion of Disney World is especially gutless.)  Cross' argument is not helped by the striking absence of children from the book:  this is more a book about representations of children than the actual entity.  His book often relies on newspapers, which gives the book a sort of press-clipping feeling, while the opinions of children themselves are ignored.  It is rather striking that his examples of children's culture come more from the mass produced world of comic strips, comic books, Hanna-Barbera cartoons and toys, while the more memorable individuals such as Linus van Pelt, Charles Wallace Murray and Matilda Wormwood do not get a mention.  We get a brief, not terribly thoughtful description of Bart Simpson, and nothing about his sister.  Cross does not appreciate that children may object to the crass, repetitive nature of children's mass culture, and that in retrospect they may despise its makers for taking advantage of their limited knowledge.  We may laugh at Rick Moranis in \\"Parenthood\\" for getting his four year old daughter to read \\"In the Penal Colony.\\"  But there is almost nothing on television as good as Maurice Sendak and Evelyn Nesbit, and it would not be snobbish for Oxford University Press to point this out.	2004-05-26
US	52562171	RW8DBUWGH5QQ	0195154657	436307354	Russian Orthodoxy on the Eve of Revolution	Books	3	11	27	N	N	Well researched, but only partly informative	For people who know little about Russian Orthodoxy, there is much that readers will find valuable in Vera Shevzov's book on pre-revolutionary Orthodoxy.  The book uses 14 archival collections, sixty contemporary newspapers, and has more than twenty pages of contemporary and secondary material.  It discusses the complex relationship between hierarchy and laity, the role of church and chapel, the problem of feasts, and possesses two chapters on icons, one with special focus on the Virgin Mary.  But readers should be forewarned that in finding out information about these subjects they will have to read Shevzov's strikingly dull and verbose prose, while vital questions about Russian Orthodoxy are ignored.<br />Shevzov subtitles one of her chapters \\"Symbols of Ecclesial Antinomies,\\" and that is all too typical of her style.  Sentences like \\"The relationship between churches and chapels and the distinct though related ways in which they mobilized individual sensibilities and became expressions of collective belonging found parallels in the celebration of sacred time\\" are all too common.  Shevzov herself is the daughter of a priest, and the result is a book in which complex theological minutiae swamps one would think are more important questions.  Historians such as Orlando Figes consider much of Orthodox culture a thin veneer of Christianity over a peasant mass of superstition and outright paganism.  What does Shevzov say about this?  As little as possible.  Other historians of religion have looked at what nominal Christians actually knew about their religion.  So what did average Russians know about the Gospels, the Bible, the requirements for salvation?  What did most Russians actually think about \\"their\\" church?  Shevzov tells us little or nothing.  The possibility of a pagan or syncretist influence is not even raised.  It is striking that Jews are mentioned in passing only twice in the whole book.  There is nothing here about Orthodox relations with the other religions in the Russian Empire, whether it is with Jews, Catholics, Muslims, the sectarians within their midst or the atheists who would soon scourge it.  There is little about the politics of Orthodoxy and how they faced the political and intellectual challenges that would soon overwhelm it.  (Rasputin doesn't even appear in the index, and there is no real discussion of ecclesiastical politics).  Orthodoxy, like all religions, demanded a certain standard of conduct from its followers.  How successful were they in getting it?  Again, Shevzov tells us nothing.  It is also striking that someone could write a whole book on religion and not look at gender.<br />There is a tendency in the book to make Orthodoxy appear more reasonable and open-minded than was actually the case.  It is surprising how little there is about superstition.  True, Shevzov does mention that some people thought Russia was defeated by Japan because a certain icon failed to reach Port Arthur in time.  And she does mention the rather elaborate, endless rituals worshippers had to go through in order to get holy Communion, with the result that few people did.  You shouldn't spit or kiss on the day in question, many ate only a Lenten diet, and abstained from sex.  You shouldn't eat between Confession and Communion the next day.  A rate of once a year was considered reasonable.  But these are exceptions and they are not dealt with harshly.  And so we get discussions of miracle-working icons and elaborate rules for feast days without any sense that anyone might find anything unreasonable in all this.  And certainly there is nothing about ritual-murder beliefs.  A key theme for Shevzov is the relationship between the church and the laity.  The popular image of Orthodoxy is one of a strictly elitist religion in which the clergy gave orders and the laity followed.   Shevzov, on the one hand wants to counter the reputation for servility and submission.  But on the other hand she does not want it to appear that thechurch was constantly fighting.  So we get discussions among Orthodox intellectuals about the proper role of the laity.  By her own admission not much was reformed before 1917, though this does not stop her from comparing the debates to the Council of Trent and Vatican II.  And we also get long discussions of quarrels between laity and hierarchy over church affairs and getting approval to build chapels.  There were also quarrels over how to sanctify the right icons, and the rules for the right iconic procession.   Sometimes the hierarchy would get the removal of the \\"wrong\\" kind of icons from private homes and there would be discussion and debate over whether this was a good thing.  There is an emphasis on laic initiative in church affairs, keeping popular feasts and iconic devotion, though Shevzov does point out that the laity was not the same as the nominal Orthodox population.  The idea is to break down the popular/official dichotomy in the study of Orthodoxy, without really challenging it.  The result seems more like slight of hand, than sustained analysis.	2004-05-26
US	52562171	R1CHOTX5728FAI	0521830303	868100034	The Soviets, the Munich Crisis, and the Coming of World War II	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Inconclusive	For most people, Munich is the hallmark of shameful appeasement. But for many scholars over the past three decades the British and French had no choice but to give in to Hitler at Munich.  A crucial argument for the pro-appeaser scholars, and the one that is the subject of this book, concerns the position of the Soviet Union.  Not only were the Soviets led by the untrustworthy and cruel Stalin, but the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia did not even share a common border so that the Soviet Union could fulfill her treaty commitments.  Hugh Ragsdale is clearly unsympathetic to this argument, as he is to appeasement generally.  Neville Chamberlain comes out looking particularly badly, ignoring his own cabinet and making concessions to Hitler they had explicitly told him not to make, while at other times ignoring the French, the Czechoslovaks and the Soviets in his willingness to make a deal.  The key to the mystery of Soviet intentions is Romania.  Romania, along with Poland, were the two countries interposed between the Soviet Union and Czechsoslovakia.  Poland was ruled by a military regime that was intensely hostile to the Soviet Union.  It does not come out looking very well in this account, showing more interest in humiliating Czechsoslovakia and taking the territory of Teschen, then trying to stop the German foe.  Romania by contrast, was more open minded.  Although it was a corrupt conservative monarchy many in the Romanian foreign ministry thought that the Soviet Union could be used to offset a dangerously strong Germany.  And so we get a discussion of Soviet-Romanian relations based on documents in the Romanian archives.  We learn of problems the two countries had over a defecting Soviet diplomat fleeing from the purges.  We learn how in 1938 the Romanian government turned sharply to the right as avowedly fascist parties increased their power.  We read tantalizing hints of how Romania was willing to help Soviet assistance, either by land or by air.  Yet at the same time Romania had to worry about Poland, officially their ally, who kept reminding Romania that allowing Soviet military access would jeopardize their alliance.<br />So what were Soviet intentions in September 1938?  Well, in the late eighties memoirs were published in the Soviet Union that strongly point to Soviet mobilization of the Red Army to assist Czechoslovakia, if the Czechoslovaks asked for their help.  There are other military histories which make similar claims.  There are documents from Polish intelligence where the Poles believe the Romanians were going to allow Soviet military access.  Some Czech historians have argued that Romania explicitly allowed Soviet military access.  But there are problems.  We don't have access to Soviet archives for this period.  The Czech historians do not like all that convincing when looked at more closely, and may be motivated by a parti pris to argue that the Soviets were untrustworthy.  We cannot get confirmation of the Polish intelligence in the Romanian archives.  On the other hand the Romanian archives are incomplete, as many of them were taken back to the Soviet Union after they defeated Romania in the war.  So the result is inconclusive, and likely will remain so until we have better access to Russian archives.  There are other problems with this book.  At one point Ragsdale argues that Polish foreign policy was not popular with Polish public opinion.  That would be interesting if true, but the information comes from a Communist era historian and needs more detail.  Other historians are more skeptical than Ragsdale whether there would have been a military coup in Germany if the West had successfully stood Hitler down at Munich.  At one point Ragsdale argues against a historian who argues that the Soviet Union supported revolutionary war and the possibility for the Soviet Union to dominate other countries.  He argues instead that the Soviet Union supported a \\"popular front\\" strategy, and cites Ronald Radosh et al's Spain Betrayed in support.  There are two problems with this.  (1) Radosh is arguing that the Soviet Union was using the popular front as a strategy to impose a dictatorship on Spain, so the different strategies do not make much difference in the end.  (2) It's not clear whether this was actually the Soviet Union's strategy in Spain, which has been vigorously contested by Helen Graham in her recent book on the Spanish Civil war.  All in all, this is an incomplete book.	2004-05-19
US	52562171	R13G9K8FVE1RRU	0679733787	66884954	The Woman in the Dunes	Books	2	14	23	N	N	Derivative	Once upon a time it seemed that Kobo Abe was a shoe-in for the Nobel Prize for Literature.  In the first nine decades of its history there had been only one winner, there had been very few Asian laureates at all, and Abe seemed to be successful enough in the Western world to be the presumptive nominee.  As it happened he did not win, the next Japanese laureate was the less well known Oe, and reading this book it is easy to see that this was no great injustice.  Despite its fame, both as a book and as a movie, this is a surprisingly derivative book.  That people should compare it to Kafka and Beckett is one thing.  But this is basically a shorter, shallower version of &quot;The Castle.&quot;  Consider the similarities.  K visits an otherwise unknown village in what could only be central Europe.  Niki Jumpei visits an otherwise isolated village in what is Japan.  Both find themselves trapped in Sisyphean tasks.  K is trying to make contact with the rulers of the Castle.  Jumpei is placed in a sand pit, in the guise of being given a place to spend the night, and forced to endlessly dig sand out of it that otherwise threatens the village.  There is something disingenous about K, whose credentials look suspicious and may not be real.  Jumpei, by contrast, is just not very interesting and somewhat pompous and fatuous, even before he is involuntarily trapped in a sand-pit.  Both K and Jumpei find himself erotically involved with a woman in the village, and in each case there is no love or passion, just embarrassing lust.  The most memorable quality of &quot;The Castle&quot; is how at each step in his attempts to reach the Castle he finds himself forced back to a preliminary step, and then backwards to a preliminary step towards that, and so on in an endless regression.  Jumpei's progress is not as elegant and Abe does not possess the horrible serenity of Kafka's prose.  But Jumpei in his attempts to argue with his captors, threaten his captors, or escape from his captors,still doesn't really make any progress.  &quot;The Castle&quot; doesn't actually have an ending because Kafka died before he completed it, but his notes suggest that the authorities will allow K to stay in the village.  Not to give anything away but the ending to this book is not especially original.  Unlike &quot;The Castle&quot; there are basically only two characters in this book, and the Woman in the Dunes is considerably less interesting than K's paramour.  She has already given up and there is something vacant about her whole existence.  There is nothing here that you cannot find in &quot;The Castle.&quot;  But there is much in &quot;The Castle&quot; that you will not find in &quot;The Woman in the Dunes.&quot;  For a start Kafka is a comic writer of genius, while wit and humor are not really Abe's strong points.  Whereas &quot;The Castle&quot; is one of the great novels of the twentieth century, &quot;The Woman in the Dunes&quot; strikes one as the kind of novel designed to generate high school essays about the struggle between society and the individual.  And whereas the authority in &quot;The Castle&quot; is genuinely strange and mysterious, the out of the way tyrants of Abe's sand pit more resemble &quot;Deliverance&quot; without inbred psychopaths.  &quot;The Silent Cry&quot; is a much better novel, and Tanizaki and &quot;The Heart&quot; are better still.	2004-05-18
US	52562171	R1G51HL3PT9JSZ	0803213271	306997290	The Origins of the Final Solution: The Evolution of Nazi Jewish Policy, September 1939-March 1942 (Comprehensive History of the Holocaust)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	The dynamic of death	Christopher Browning's book is the most detailed account of how Nazi Germany moved from discriminating against Jews and encouraging their emigration just before September 1939, to the systematic extermination of them by March 1942.  It is based on the most recent research and has 111 pages of notes and a thirty page bibliography.  How such an atrocity could have happened by a wealthy, otherwise sophisticated state against a small powerless minority is still difficult to comprehend.  Browning shows how complex the path was.   In September 1939 the German attack on Poland was marked by massacres of the local population, with a disproportionate emphasis on Jews.  Poland, which had been divided between Germany and the Soviet Union, was further divided by the Nazis between those areas that had belonged to pre-Versailles Germany which were returned to the Reich, and the remainder, which became the General Government of Poland.   Many ambitious people, among them Adolf Eichmann, thought that one could simply expel the Jewish population into the General Government, or later into the Wesern countries.  This was not a detailed plan decreed on high by Hitler.  Instead it was the response often of local initiative or by powerful players in the Nazi government, with the SS being the most important, sometimes getting a sign from Hitler to move forward, occasionally getting a sign to stop.  But the expellers had problems.  The general government was reluctant to be swamped with Jewish refugees.  France in particular did not want Jews from Luxembourg.  The army's military jurisdiction had to be reigned in and any concern over the brutal tactics diluted.  This was done with some success, but the people who sought to economically exploit Poland (around Goering) had their own, limited pragmatic objections.  At the same time there was a similarly complex process with ghettoization.  As the ghettoes developed (Browning is very careful to point out the differences between Warsaw, Lodz, Cracow and elsewhere) a division developed between \\"attritionists\\" who thought confining the Jews to ghettoes would reduce their numbers, while \\"productionists\\" argued it would be easier to exploit the Jews economically if they were guaranteed a certain minimum standard of living.  Although some scholars have sought to find an economic logic to the Nazi's actions, Browning notes the irony that the productionists were slowly winning the battle over the ghetto when it was decided to exterminate the Jews.<br />The key turning point was the decision to invade the Soviet Union.  In the months beforehand plans were drawn up that assumed the deaths of millions, even tens of millions of Soviets from starvation and dispossession. Within days of the invasion the SS Einsatzgruppen were murdering thousands of people.  At the same time other Nazis, other allies and local populations in the Baltic and Ukraine carried out massacres of male Jews on their own initiative.  By August women and children were being included across the occupied Soviet Union, though not everywhere.  By October plans were being drawn up to create gas chambers and by January 1942 the Wansee Conference was held.  By March 1942 the Nazis were systematically moving to slaughter every Jew in Europe from Ireland to Vladivostok.  When was the decision made to do all this?  Browning makes four important points.  First, there was no big bang of the origins of the Final Solution, no single decision which launched everything.  Second, the planning for Barbarrossa, with mass executions, mass expulsions and mass starvation on a level previously unforeseen, clearly implied the genocide of the Jews, if not their absolute extinction.  Third, Nazi decision making policy was \\"an unsytematical dialectical interaction of mutual radicalization between central and local authorities...as well as decisions and orders from above; and intuition, initiative, and experimentation, as well as obedience from below.\\"  Fourth, one cannot just concentrate on Hitler and Himmler, one must look also at the military, civil administration, the bureaucracy, economists and collaborators.  The role of anti-communism in the war against Germany's most dangerous foe was of special importance.  Having pointed out how polycratic struggles and local initiative set the stage for genocide and how previous plans for expulsion had been consistently thwarted until 1941, Browning then presents a theory for Hitler's role, in two stages.  In July 1941 Hitler moved towards the Final Solution in a euphoria of victory, but then stopped plans for deportations in August when the Wehrmacht's offensive was delayed.  But in September, the military situation improved, the euphoria returned and it was in this six-week period until the end of October that Hitler decided to kill every Jew the Nazis could get their hands on.  <br />This summary does not go into the immense detail and considerable nuance that Browning provides on every point from popular opinion to the setting up of the first death camps to the role of the euthanasia program where many exterminators started their career.  Some details stand out.  As the Holocaust was about to make their work redundant, the professional anti-Semitic bureaucrats added a new round of petty restrictions of Jewish life, such as a 1941 rule in Dresden that prevented Jews from buying cut flowers.  Later we learn of how, in order to meet their anti-partisan hostage quotas, the Germans in Serbia started shooting male Jews in Serbia out of hand.  One of the people behind this policy, Field Marshall List, was not only not Nazi \\"but a highly cultured and deeply religious man\\" who was praised by the future pope John XXIII for his attempts to alleviate famine and military mistreatment in Greece.  But the prejudices of his caste against guerrillas and Serbs made him push an open door to genocide.  Indeed one of the most dispiriting things in this book is that no-one in the vast Nazi machine seems to have stopped to point out how evil it was to murder millions of innocent people.	2004-05-12
US	52562171	R24UJVRM9EBJIQ	1571814280	626232121	French Intellectuals Against the Left: The Antitotalitarian Moment of the 1970s (Berghahn Monographs in French Studies)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	How Bad Analogies Flourish or Russian Dressing Roulette	Once upon a time there was a country, France, plagued by pro-Communist intellectuals.  Not only did these intellectuals hate freedom and have unchallenged intellectual hegemony but they also infected the United States, Britain and the rest of the free world.  But then in the 1970s a new group of intellectuals arose and against overwhelming odds managed to slay the demons and dragons of totalitarianism and utopianism.  No longer would Marxists undermine the true and only liberal heaven. Such anyway is the story as told by Commentary and The New Republic, by Henri Astier in the Times Literary Supplement and Paul Berman in The New Yorker.  That this narrative is so popular in the United States cannot make it completely plausible.  After all the French Communist Party (PCF) was only in a junior position of power from 1944 to 1947 and 1981 to 1984.  Much of French politics was devoted to keeping them from power.  France was a major player in the world's leading anticommunist alliance and had a sizeable nuclear deterrent posed to annihilate the Warsaw Pact.   Michael Scott Christofferson's book is of immense value in showing how inadequate this self-serving narrative is.  Far from bursting forth in the 1970s like Pallas Athena, antitotalitarianism built on criticisms of political parties, support for direct democracy and coolness towards the Soviet Union that had been gestating for decades. <br />Christofferson starts off with a valuable discussion of the weaknesses of the very idea of totalitarianism, such as the reservations of its own theorists like Arendt and Brzezinski, its inability to predict change in totalitarian systems, its overemphasis on all-encompassing and top down terror, and its lack of concern with the differences between industrial Germany and peasant Russia.  The next chapter sets the stage for the political struggles of the seventies.  The PCF belittled intellectuals, was less than courageous on Algeria and was often disingenuously and stupidly pro-Soviet.  The invasions of Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968 undermined intellectuals' attachment to Communism.  The shock of 1968 seemed to offer a new hope for revolution for intellectuals not associated with political parties, one that countered the de facto parliamentariansm of the PCF.  So when the PCF and the new Socialist Party agreed on a Common Program in the early seventies, many radical intellectuals viewed this as a betrayal for moderation.  Such radicals would be open to a root and branch polemic against the PCF, Leninism and the whole revolutionary project. <br />Christofferson is particularly useful in showing the oversimplifications of other scholars such as Tony Judt and Sunil Khilnani.  French support for East European dissidents did not begin in 1977 with support for Charter 77.  There had been growing support for Eastern European dissidents since 1956, and particularly since 1968 with the Comite du 5 janvier, and the Comite international des mathematiciens.  (Sartre himself thought Solzhenitsyn was too soft on the Soviet Union).  Third-worldism was never as influential as often thought.  Sartre though that the Cuban revolution had no validity in Europe, while Andre Gorz and Cornelius Castoriadis thought socialism was impossible in the third world.  Christofferson shows that &quot;The Gulag Archipelago&quot; was not the dramatic revelation often thought to be.  As the Socialists passed the PCF in popularity, one could no longer argue that Communists electorally dominated the Common Program.  One had to emphasize the PCF's ideological influence instead.  Arguing that French intellectuals were blind to the Gulag before 1974 was not accurate, but it made it easier to the attack the Common Program.  Far from struggling against monolithic fellow travelers support, the antitotalitarian movement, whether in 1974 in fighting the PCF over Solzhenitsyn, in 1975 over the Portuguese Revolution or in 1976-77 in the rise of the &quot;new philosophers&quot;, were rushing against an open door. <br />As Christofferson points out, the results were not intellectually, politically or ethically encouraging.  We read about Andre Glucksmann in 1974 breathlessly trying to convert the conservative Orthodox Solzhenitsyn into his own quasi-populist anarchism.  We see an unpleasant opportunism in the journal Tel Quel as it moves from fashionable Maoism to praise of the United States in the space of a year.  We see Glucksmann and Bernard Henri-Levy posturing as dissidents, as if it was somehow Stalinist for socialists to criticize them.  Christofferson provides a fine critique of Francois Furet's Penser la Revolution francaise.  This is a book based less on empirical research than on fears of totalitarianism, dressing up a questionable ideological determinism in the latest French fashions.  Christofferson is particularly good on Furet's bait and switch tactics about Augustin Cochin, allowing Furet to argue that Cochin's paranoid ideas of intellectual manipulation were true because they had not been refuted.  Overall, the antitotalitarian movement offered little in empirical descriptions of the &quot;totalitarian&quot; societies they were attacking.  Neither Nazism nor Vichy made much of an appearance in their condemnations.  Not only did the new philosophers' books read like a jazzed up version of the Open Society and its Enemies (Poppercorn, one might call it), but the idea that the PCF was a serious threat to French democracy in the seventies and eighties turned out to be wildly incorrect.  Despite having started in movements supporting direct democracy and workers control, most antitotalitarians ended up with a strictly negative critique indistinguishable from neo-conservatism.  &quot;Given the murderous brutality of Latin American military dictatorships of the period, the moral balance sheet of antitotalitarianism is at the very least ambiguous.&quot;  Notwithstanding the comparisons with Orwell, this movement was ultimately adead end.	2004-05-03
US	52562171	R1X5YSLUWRIKDK	0521790395	608626454	The Monied Metropolis: New York City and the Consolidation of the American Bourgeoisie, 1850-1896	Books	4	20	21	N	N	The Power Behind the Glory	Sven Beckert's history seeks to describe the consolidation of the American bourgeoisie from 1850 to 1896.  The key term here is &quot;bourgeoisie&quot;, whom Beckert equates with &quot;upper class&quot; and &quot;economic elite&quot; and not simply with &quot;middle class&quot; which too many people equate with &quot;most Americans.&quot;  The story starts with an upper class dominated by merchants and bankers, many of them with economic ties to the South and to slavery.  At the time industrialists were a relatively weak section of the upper class, with many of them from artisan origins and ruling over relatively small factories.  In the 1850s the upper class would be divided over its response to slavery and to what extent it should compromise with the South.  At the same time much of what we might consider upper class culture (museums, orchestras, theatres) were relatively inclusive, while the upper class was dispersed over the city.  Ethnicity was relatively unimportant (it helped that there were few Catholics in the upper class) and easily transcended in daily life.  Much of the upper class embraced a somber, diligent hard-working life.<br />The story that Beckert then relates is one of how manufacturers increased their importance within the New York bourgeoisie.  In this they were joined by more powerful financiers and lawyers.  As time went on corporations became more complex and vertically integrated, investments became more sophisticated and diverse and businesses became more national and international.  Beckert tells the story of how the New York City upper class found itself in a position of unrivalled influence after the Civil War decimated its main rival in the American ruling class, the Southern slaveholders.  At the same time the New York bourgeoisie became more exclusive.  As the century ended it was geographically more segregated from the rest of the city.  Its influence in the world of culture helped to separate it from the common people (the new Metropolitan Museum of Art wasn't even open on Sundays until 1891, the day most New Yorkers were able to see it).  At the same time the New York bourgeoisie became more anti-Semitic.  It was also a ruling class that more openly displayed its wealth, such as the famous 1897 Martin ball where the hostess wore a necklace that had belonged to Marie-Antoinette, while Caroline Astor had gems worth $250,000 sown into her dress.<br />At the same time the old republican ideology which emphasized economic independence for all slowly dissolved as it became clear that proletarianization was to be a fact of life.  Where once the upper class embraced social mobility they now viewed the world through the lens of Social Darwinism.  The New York bourgeoisie took a hard line on strikes and in what the most original part of Beckert's account, in 1877 tried their to eviscerate universal suffrage.  The Chamber of Commerce, the Stock Exchange, the Union League Club, the New York Board of Trade and other powerful upper-class institutions all endorsed a proposal that would have imposed on the city council a board of finance with all power regarding taxation and expenditures elected under a suffrage that would have disenfranchised up to two-thirds of the New York electorate.  This was unsuccessful, but their hard line on strikes helped to explain why the rate of injured strikers was more than forty times that for France in the nineties.  In the 1870s the American trade union movement was one of the strongest in the world.  By the 1920s it was one of the weakest.  (Theodore Roosevelt suggested that one take a dozen Populists against the wall and shoot them dead).  Their power benefited from the weaknesses of the state, where both bureaucracies and the federal government were weak and reactionary courts existed to fill the vacuum.  Politics was a sphere where the wealthy could manipulate their power and influence to gain special favors and to crush radical strikers, while the claims of other classes could be peremptorily dismissed.  Yet at the same time the laissez-faire state could not provide the more sophistical protection that a more sophisticated economy needed.  So as the book concludes we are on the verge of encountering progressivism.<br />Although well detailed, Beckert's style is not the most involving and many of the footnotes are somewhat repetitive.  A bibliography listing archival sources would also have helped.  One problem with Beckert is that it does fully not explain the political success of the New York bourgeoisie.  True, over time the New York upper class had to accept the more ethnic and more free spending Tammany.  The New York bourgeoisie played a decreasing role in city government.  Yet they still made up most if not all of the mayors and they were able to cut taxation levels by a third from 1879 to 1896.  It strikes me as a bit odd to say that the New York bourgeoisie was having problems attracting the more conventional middle class.  In the Gilded Age they seemed to have little trouble getting the population to vote for nearly indistinguishable pro-business politicians.  Some of these explanations for its power are reasonable (it no longer had to share power with slaveholders or aristocrats), while others are weaker (running political parties, argues Beckert, was expensive and the wealthy were those who could most easily pay.  But was there ever a time when European socialist parties outspent their rivals?)  At the end something is missing in this account.	2004-04-27
US	52562171	R2R9WPV3Z7Y6VY	0679725229	693170972	Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle	Books	2	26	39	N	N	You're so Veen	Ada, Vladimir Nabokov's last novel, offers a beguiling world.  On a planet that is like Earth but is not, what we think of as the United States is actually the combination of the cultures of Russia, France and England.  Although the world is a peaceful one with strange limitations placed on technology, there is enough electricity so that the characters can use telephones, automobiles and motion pictures in the late 1800s.  Scientists, including the protagonist, speculate about the possibility of another earth, which is of course our own. Ada tells the story of Van Veen and his \\"cousin\\" Ada Veen, who live in the pleasure gardens of this world's aristocracy.  Their names, as it happens, reminds one of \\"VV\\" (Vladimir Vladimirovich) and \\"VN\\" (Vladimir Nabokov).  They possess a life of physical pleasure, material wealth and intellectual stimulation, all related in Nabokov's unique prose style.  Now more more baroque than ever before, it is imbedded with puns, word-plays and allusions to other writers (including the opening line of Anna Karenina on the first page).  This book is a chronicle of their life (or is it?) <br />Unfortunately, this book is not nearly as interesting or even as likeable as it sounds.  To put it frankly, the tale it tells is as sterile as Van Veen conveniently turns out to be.  If the book has many levels and hidden depths it is not because Nabokov has written a profound story of human experience but because he has presented a giant crossword puzzle.  The book is full of trilingual puns, with German occasionally thrown in for good measure, but none of them are funny.  There is a chapter devoted to codes, another chapter devoted to playing Scrabble.  There are several heavy-handed allusions to Chekhov and a less than successful and less than affectionate parody of his dialogue.  There are sneers directed at Freud and modern art and there is a long and almost incomprehensible chapter which parodies Borges' essays on time.  The book contains notes byVivian Darkbloom, who is in fact a character in Lolita and actually an anagram for Nabokov himself.  Many of these notes are actually of questionable accuracy.  The alternate earth idea is not really as developed as one might hope for, (though the idea that the blacks in the USA are the descendants of African explorers is a nice touch).  As the book proceeds the style becomes more obscure and self-involved, all existing only to show Nabokov's facility with language.  There is a passage about a chain of aristocratic brothels which starts out promisingly and where the life is slowly squeezed out by the style.  There are earlier passages which appear to portray the intensity of childhood in a moving and memorable manner.  But only then do we realize that we have read is simply Pseudo-Proust.  The sense of detail is there but the emotions they help to convey are not.  There are many complex ruminations about fiction and time:  it is all a very elaborate game.  But it is not clear why anyone should play. <br />Lionel Trilling once commented that Lolita was the only convincing love story of the 20th century.  This was an inapt comparison since the whole point of the novel was that one character was too young and the other too mad to appreciate what love really was.  Ada is even less of a love story, although it follows the contours of one.  The two characters do not show affection or loyalty or sympathy towards each other.  They do not make sacrifices for the other, they do not comfort each other, nor are they really necessary for the other's intellectual or moral growth (which may explain why in fact they do not grow; they are more sexually active and intellectually precocious at 12 than they are at 82).  All they really share is lust, their (atrociously written) sex is sort of like an incomparably fine champagne.  Sometimes they don't want to share that pleasure, sometimes they want to have cognac instead.  And if their love means little, they care even less about others.  The death of parents, sibling, spouse mean almost nothing to them.  The whole point of their alternate earth is that politics, or history, or other people need never intrude on their lives.  Through all the passages of their privileged life the message we get is how wonderful it is to be wealthy and handsome and brilliant and not to be bothered by people who are not.  Ada, we are informed, is an expert entomologist.  Van is also a fine writer and a world-class scientist.  He is also an expert acrobat and superb in chess.  One the one hand the incest motif is the worst sort of aristocratic snobbery, the sphere where power comes close to antinomianism.  But even worse is the monstrous vanity, the suspicion that Ada and Veen are the same person.  The motif collapses to masturbation as we fear that Nabokov's main love is himself.  While one might argue that the Veens' affairs should not be taken on their own terms one cannot deny Nabokov's snobbish contempt (and secret envy) of superior writers.  Recently a character on That 70s show said \\"If I could run across the beach into my own arms, I would.\\"  That is a surprisingly concise summary of Nabokov's longest and most elaborate novel.	2004-04-22
US	52562171	R1Y6D51XPM00YJ	1594200084	832726979	Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of Its Enemies	Books	2	28	41	N	N	Seductive, but shallow	Based on an article that originally appeared in \\"The New York Review  of Books,\\" \\"Occidentalism\\" discusses the new anti-western ideologies that animate Al-Qaida and other hostile forces.  Playing, rather obviously, on Edward Said's \\"Orientalism,\\" Ian Buruma and Avishai Margalit go out of their way to note an obvious irony.  Al  Qaeda, the Iranian Revolution and the Showa Dictatorship all attack the cosmopolitan, commercial, pacific, urban and democratic west, yet much of their demonizing criticism actually comes from Europe itself.  A first look suggests the authors' wide reading as the two trace such themes as the hatred of cities from Babylon, the Tower of Babel, T.S. Eliot, Fontane, Engels and Herder, down to Mao, the Khmer Rouge to the ghastly totalitarian architecture of Pyongyang and Kuala Lumpur.  We later move from Berlin and the Romantics, to Russia and the Slavophiles.  A first look also suggests a power of nuance as Buruma and Margalit do distinguish, briefly, between Occidentalism and legitimate criticisms of the west.  They also assert that guilt over colonialism won't help anything, but that organized religion can play a useful part in liberalizing the Middle East.  This result is a work that appears sufficiently critical and deep to make this brief book momentarily popular. <br />But ultimately, this is a shallow book.  Buruma is a beneficiary of the unfortunate tendency of many American intellectuals to confuse internationalism with anglophilia.  He has been a mainstay of the New York Review for two decades as its major Asia commentator, where he has benefited from the fact that his accounts are more conservative and more flattering to the Western mind than more scholarly treatments by Bruce Cumings, John Dower and Benedict Anderson.  What he has and his coauthor have produced is ultimately lazy, luxuriating in the clichs of the struggle against totalitarianism, where citations of Alexis de Tocqueville and Isaiah Berlin run free and more disturbingquestions are left behind.  For a start, take their emphasis on the dependence of modern-day Occidentalists on European authoritarian and quasi-fascist themes.  If the point is to argue that Islamism is somehow fascist, it is misleading.  Nothing is served by simply conflating enemies of the past and present.  If it is to argue that Islamism is somehow \\"inauthentic,\\" then it is counterproductive since we want the Muslim World to be democratic and pro-Western and such pro-western democrats are not likely to succeed on an appeal to authenticity.  Moreover, it is not entirely true.  Buruma and  Margalit note that Islam has a long tradition of urban civilization. But it also has a long tension between a \\"corrupt\\" urbanism and a \\"purer,\\" more faithful nomadism.  And consider the laundry list of potential influences on Occidentalism:  Herder, Marx, Eliot, Tolstoy,  Nietzsche.  There is no coherent intellectual genealogy and precious little nuance.  Do a common dislike of cities and international commerce make Bin Laden, Pol Pot, and Gandhi brothers under the skin?  The authors conflate fundamentalist Afghanistan, nihilistic Kampuchea, Nazi Germany, Communist North Korea, commercial authoritarian Singapore and pluralist Malaysia.  Does this make any sense other than as an expression of the authors' distaste?  Nor do the authors pay attention to the vast problems of the Third world megapolis, where a sixth of the world's population is forced to hustle in the informal economy.  Sex slavery, overcrowding, ecological catastrophe are all real problems, not simply reactionary flourishes that liberalism can blithely ignore. Elsewhere the authors write that Occidentalism really represents the fears of marginalized urban intellectuals, as opposed to any popular constituency.  Oh dear.  It's the return of Richard Hofstadter's status anxiety theory of social change, returning nearly three decades after American historians tossed it aside as a poor explanation.  Still doesn't explainwhy Iraqis are so underwhelmed by their most pro-American politicians.  At one point Buruma and Margalit link Occidentalism with anti-Semitism.  But much anti-Semitism makes the argument that Jews, because of their language, religion and history, are unalterably Asian.  Linking Occidentalism to Nazism and Fascism only blurs the Axis' attacks on Russia's \\"Asiatic\\" peoples and the wars against Ethiopia and Libya.  Saying, as the authors do, that the Third Reich brought Occidentalism to the heart of Europe is not a paradox, it is merely sloppy thinking. <br />For the authors, \\"the Occident\\" is an idealized Anglo-America (the Jacobins are blamed for the secularist \\"excesses\\" of Attaruk and the Shah), which is conflated with the West.  At one point the authors argue that \\"Occidentalism\\" shows contempt for the west for its unheroic, but ultimately decent pacifism.  I somehow doubt that many Palestinians confuse Israeli leaders with the Peace Pledge Union.  Elsewhere the authors write that Islam and Marxism edged out liberalism in the Middle East.  That implies that Eisenhower or Kennedy, Mollet or De Gaulle, Eden or Wilson, cared a fig for liberalism in the Islamic world.  It ignores how from Algeria to Indonesia, from support of the Shah to support of the Maronite Phalange, from the blank cheque to Israel to the indulgence of oil-rich sheiks, many western \\"liberals\\" have betrayed democratic or secular movements for the pursuit of crass greed and strategic advantage.  At one point the authors write \\"Liberal capitalism is by definition inegalitarian, for not everyone is equally gifted and equally lucky.\\"  So otherwise the West is a perfect meritocracy?  Well, no say the authors, since the market does have a tendency to indulge the meretricious and vulgar.  So the biggest problem with Western society is that it allows Britney Spears to make more money than Ian Buruma?  I could think of worse injustices than that, especially since that one doesn't seem all that unfair.	2004-04-20
US	52562171	R2RBYDI81SNORW	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	4	35	42	N	N	This charming tyrant and mass murderer	The dictator was an autodidact who read exhaustively, while envious of his more intellectual colleagues.  He liked Steinbeck and Galsworthy and he admired Spencer Tracy and Clark Gable films.  Surprisingly, he had a good singing voice while less surprisingly he had \\"a hangman's wit.\\"  Although he became the unrivaled leader by 1929, well into the thirties he had to show respect, deference and charm to his fellow Politburo members.  During the years of collectivization he frequently had to write letters of apology to the leading party members whose sensitivities had been bruised.  At the same time he could write to one colleague \\"I could cover you with kisses in gratitude for your actions down there.\\"  The atmosphere in the early thirties was rather different from what one would think.  The elite lived comfortably but not (yet) luxuriously and they would still have problems with money.  Many of the children remember the dictator's fondness towards them.  The elite would go into each others apartments to talk, to chat, to ask if they had extra food or sugar.  The dictator himself had only one or two bodyguards until the assassination of Kirov...<br />Welcome to Simon Sebag Montefiore's history of Stalin and his inner circle.  As a work of history it is based on the most extensive archival research yet, the most recent scholarly research as well as intensive interviews with the survivors of the elite and their families.  The result is a fascinating, disturbing work that details the life of Stalin and incidentally of the country that he ran.  We read such tense passages such as the Revolution Day parade in 1941 held while the Germans were only fifty miles away.  The work is full of interesting facts.  The secret policeman Yagoda had a 165 pornographic pipes and cigarette holders while his successor Beria had eleven satin teddy bears (presumably because twelve would be just too much).  We get to see a picture of a shirtless Molotov (of all people) playing tennis (of allthings).  In one of the very few good things one can say about him, Molotov still laid a place at the table for his arrested and imprisoned wife.  (They were eventually reunited, unlike millions of other Soviets).  Stalin's daughter apparently had a serious crush on Beria's son.  Babel, Sholokhov and Yezhov all slept with the same woman (Yezhov's wife).  Stalin was shocked at the fall of France:  \\"Couldn't they put up any resistance at all?  Now Hitler's going to beat our brains in!\\"  He also described Hiroshima as \\"super-barbaric.\\"<br />More to the point Montefiore discusses Stalin's personal life.  His wife almost certainly did commit suicide (and was not murdered as others suggested).  Montefiore points out that she appeared to have been genuinely manic-depressive.  Being married to Stalin obviously didn't help this, but it didn't cause it either.  Montefiore leans against the idea that Kirov was murdered on Stalin's order.  Like the burning of the Reichstag and the assassination of John F. Kennedy this probably was the act of a single individual.  Maxim Gorky's death was probably the result of natural causes.  As Montefiore goes on he points out that the purges was not just the result of one's man evil (his colleagues and lower level bureaucrats eagerly participated and made their own lists.)  Oddly enough, the doctor's plot, the sinister anti-Semitic \\"conspiracy\\" that was apparently supposed to launch Stalin's final purge, had a basis in fact:  apparently Zhdanov's doctors had hastened his death by incompetence.  We learn more about Beria; on the one hand he was a sadistic torturer, a man who murdered and poisoned with his bare hands, a vile rapist.  But on the other hand he was an effective bureaucrat, married to a beautiful woman who was loyal to him to the end of her days, and was surprisingly liberal.  And so we read about how Stalin moved from the purges through the war to the cold war and became an absolute dictator.  And so we read how no-one was safe:Molotov's wife, Kaganovich's brother, Kalinin's wife, Mikoyan's son, Khruschev's daughter in law and several of Stalin's own-in-laws all faced imprisonment or death.  <br />As the book goes on some weaknesses become clearer.  The notes are somewhat awkward and it is not always clear which fact refers to which source.  There are certain slips such as when Montefiore writes that Jews did not make up 6% of the party but were a majority of the government (which was what exactly?)  At one time Montefiore says that Stalin was \\"more paranoid and more confident\\" which does not exactly explain things.  More and more there is emphasis on the striking detail and the horrific anecdote, as opposed to sustained analysis.  And so we get two pages on how Stalin went about getting a new national anthem, five pages on his first meeting with Churchill, two and a half pages on his daughter's relationship with a much older man.  But the battle of Kursk only gets a paragraph, and it is not clear how the Soviet Union survived to stop Hitler.  There is little on economic planning, while nationalities policy is only discussed when deportations come up.  By the postwar years the narrative is the grim, familiar horrific account of endless, bullying banquets with Stalin's colleagues in deadly fear for their lives, and Soviet history is too much reduced to Stalin's whims (this particularly weakens his discussion of the cold war).  But overall this is an important book that tells us much that we didn't know about the man whose victims ran into the eight digits.	2004-04-13
US	52562171	RSZ9UJ2AB8NQR	0801434920	286879981	Machiavelli's Children: Leaders and Their Legacies in Italy and Japan	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Actually, kind of bland	For two countries with very different languages and religions and with no real contact with each other before the 1860s, Japan and Italy have a surprisingly lot in common.  Both countries moved towards modern national capitalist politics under authoritarian monarchs in the 1860s.  Both sought to limit universal suffrage and modern democracy up until the First World War.  Both became fascist dictatorships that launched brutal wars of aggression and allied with Nazi Germany.  Both, of course, were defeated and occupied by the Americans, and in the end joined in military alliance with their former conqueror.  Both were dominated by conservative parties who ruled for decades while engaging in massive corruption.  Both faced political and fiscal crisis at the end of the cold war as their massive corruption was exposed in the early nineties.  But there were also differences between the two.  Japanese Shintoism never had the independence that Italian Catholicism did.  Whereas for most of the post war period Italy had a large public sector that was poorly run and subject to corruption and patronage, Japan had a sleek private sector that in fruitful synthesis with government direction became the second leading industrial power in the world.  But in the nineties Italy made heroic efforts to control its financial problems and achieve a degree of political reform with the demise of the Christian Democratic Party, while Japan was stuck in stagnation as the Liberal Democratic Party maintained its baleful hegemony.<br />Such are the basic facts that a comparison between the two countries provides.  However Richard Samuels' recent book does not offer much more.  Samuels instead spends much of the book trying to argue that leaders made a crucial difference to the history of their countries, while castigating the spectre of determinism.  So we have chapters on the founders (Cavour, Ito, Yamagata), the original economic strategists, the death of liberalism (Giolitti, Hara), the leading corporatists, Mussolini, the postwar leaders (De Gasperi, Yoshida), the masters of corruption, the post-cold war left leaders, and the post-cold war right leaders.  There is something ham-fisted in this attack on determinism.  It is not clear that the men in question made all that much of a difference.  After all, if NATO could take the trouble to include Portugal, it would almost have certainly have gone out of its way to include Italy, whatever Alcide de Gasperi did.  Nor does Samuels really convince that with different leadership the two countries would have been more liberal and less corrupt.  (And the discussion of Silvio Berlusconi is disappointingly brief about the many allegations of corruption that surround him).  We do get perhaps the least interesting chapter ever presented on Mussolini, which ends with the obvious conclusion that his entry into the Second World War was a big mistake.  And if we are going to be talking about leaders whose choices made a difference, surely there should be a chapter for Victor Emmanuel II and Hirohito.  There is also something shallow about a view of agency which limits itself to a handful of leaders.  What about the actions of the rest of society?  The history of the Japanese Socialist Party is discussed in scattershot terms, so one is never clear what is happening to it.  Nor does Samuels explain why civil and democratic politics in 1920 Japan was so much weaker than in Italy.  But surely it cannot just be the result of the superior cunning of a few of Japan's conservative politicians.  Gender, trade unions, farmers, civil society and cultural politics are many subjects that do not get their due.<br />There are other problems.  At times Samuels discusses fascism in both countries without explaining it or defining it.  He does not provide any reason for why the 1937 Japanese elite felt the need to enter into a vicious war that it could not win.  There is also a rather turgid political science jargon that makes the book less interesting to read.  The one interesting passage is a discussion of Kishi Nobusuke, prime minister of Japan during the fifties and perhaps the single most important figure behind the conservative ascendancy in that country.  He was also a major war criminal who barely escaped trial and Samuels argues that he was responsible for much of Japan's endemic corruption that involved American funds, industry kickbacks, fixers from the ultra-right and Yakuza (Japanese mafia) as well as, in more recent years, the Moonies.  Perhaps not surprisingly, this fascist and crook, who had helped declare war on the United States in 1941, got the praise of Richard Nixon as both \\"a great leader of the free world\\" and \\"a loyal and great friend of the people of the United States.\\"  Unfortunately, Samuels admits that the study of political corruption is poorly developed and his assertions are somewhat speculative.  A number of prominent scholars have praised this book.  The reader should peruse their works instead of this one.	2004-04-06
US	52562171	R2NQW9FXZCX6CH	1563381915	922849462	The Risen Lord: The Jesus of History As the Christ of Faith	Books	2	13	40	N	N	1.5 stars, ultimately very silly	There have been no shortage of silly books written about Jesus, but this one is unusual for a number of reasons.  For a start, this looks like a legitimate monograph; it is fulsomely annotated and there are many discussions of the arcana of Greek and Hebrew.  This book started out of a series of lectures at a serious university (Aberdeen) and Barker has served as the President of the Society for Old Testament Study.  This book contains an endorsement from an Anglican bishop.  Barker argues that there is no conflict between the Jesus of History and the Christ of Faith.  This will no doubt come as a relief to the many Christians who are alarmed by the fact that many scholars do not believe Jesus saw himself as God, Son of God, or even the Messiah.  But Barker is not simply defending orthodoxy.  Instead she has produced a very elaborate exegesis and has discovered a strange collection of esoteric traditions.  The book consists of five chapters.  The first starts with the concept of resurrection.  Scholars have noted a tension within early Christian thought between resurrection as a physical or as a spiritual experience.  Barker builds on this idea to argue that Jesus and the early Christians viewed resurrection as experiences of mystical ascent, &quot;which are the record of a real experience, and not just a literary fiction.&quot;  Moreover, these ascents were part of a process of exaltation, in which the resurrected became like angels, like priest-kings, like partly divine persons themselves.  The second chapter deals with baptism which Barker argues was Jesus' actual resurrection experience.  This is part of an intense mystical experience that made Jesus the Son of God.  This was the resurrection that is referred to in Gnostic texts.  What happens at and after Jesus' crucifixion is not clear, but the next chapter deals with atonement.  Here we see one of Barker's key hobby-horses.  Working on the idea that pre-Exilic Judaism was not monotheistic she argues that we can see part of the polytheistic tradition in which Yahweh was originally the second God, the son of the supreme God.  This polytheism is tied to traditions of the pre-Exilic priest cults, in which both the high priest and the king are divine, in which they can become angels and vice versa.  In looking at Day of Atonement rituals, one of the goats is actually the Lord himself, and the Eucharist may be traced back to Yom Kippur liturgy.  The fourth chapter seeks to apply these ideas back to Jesus' mission, with the baptism and the transfiguration serving as key events whose true significance was limited to a few disciples.  The fifth chapter is rather technical, and links the Suffering Servant of Isaiah to the Lamb in Revelation (Barker believes Revelation was not written as a series of visions written decades after Jesus' death, but incorporates material known and revealed to him and also to John the Baptist!)<br />All very strange and certainly it would turn our understanding of Christianity inside out.  Moreover it manages to give Jesus a messianic consciousness without having to invoke the stale rhetoric of fundamentalists and within a thoroughly Jewish context.  But ultimately this is a book which is designed for Occam's Razor to slash to ribbons.  Let's look for a start at the nebulous quasi-polytheistic/temple tradition/divine king and priest beliefs that Jesus is supposedly using.  Suppose there was a tradition of a divine king in the seventh and eighth centuries BCE.  Whatever echoes this might leave in the following centuries of Hebrew literature, the bible is quite clear that kings and prophets are NOT divine in any meaningful sense.  Moses is condemned to die outside Israel, David is punished for murdering Uriah by the death of his son, Isaiah is martyred, Josiah dies in battle while Jeremiah dies in exile.  Surely this would mean more to first century Jews than the mystical speculation Barker has compiled.  Likewise Jesus was clearly not a priest (he wasnot a Levite) so it is hard to imagine that he viewed himself as one.  Then there is Barker's use of sources.  It is one thing to argue that the gospels are historically unreliable and one thing to argue that the epistle of the Hebrews and the book of Revelation contain historically accurate material.  But to argue that Hebrews and Revelation are MORE accurate than the Gospels requires some discussion of sources and historical ground rules that Barker never gives.  Moreover, Barker quotes a whole range of sources indiscriminately, such as the Dead Sea Scrolls, Philo, the Gnostic Gospels and the Pseudigraphia without making any clear distinction between what these different authors agreed or disagreed on.  It is sort of like trying to understand Israeli foreign policy from reading Freud, Trotsky and watching several Marx Brothers films.  Nor is she all too scrupulous in her use of sources.  She invokes 3 Enoch even though it is not clear that this book existed at the time of Jesus.  She attempts to force Hebrews 2:14-17 to fit her thesis.  None of the Gnostic traditions of secret knowledge she cites can be linked back to the first century, let alone to Jesus.  She quotes writers who see baptism as a triumph over death, but this can be better read as praise for the value of a sacrament, not that they believed it was &quot;really&quot; the resurrection.  One would be better off reading James Dunn' &quot;Jesus Remembered&quot; to understand how Jesus viewed himself as the Suffering Servant (answer:  not very much).  Moreover baptism was a fairly common experience within the early church.  It seems difficult to believe that people would confuse it with resurrection.  Ultimately, all this research has just become very silly.	2004-04-02
US	52562171	R1NR93RUJ30PXI	1400040949	788802096	The Anatomy of Fascism	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Eminently sensible	What is fascism? asks Robert Paxton, the renowned historian of Vichy France in this new book.  And at the end of the book we get an answer.  Aside from obsessions with unity and strong leadership, fascism (a) seeks to mobilize popular support for right-wing causes (b) \\"in uneasy but effective collaboration\\" with traditional conservative forces (c) to sweep away democratic restraints and (d) to indulge in redemptive violence free of ethical or legal restraints to engage in foreign expansion.  It is a response to the failure of traditional elites to maintain power in a democratic society, who then work with the ferocious populism of fascist parties.  Paxton works to this conclusion by comparing Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy as well as by looking at unsuccessful fascisms, various neo-fascisms of the present day, and whether other movements can be properly described as fascism.<br />The result is eminently sensible.  One can see this as Paxton succinctly judges other theories of fascism and finds them wanting.  It would be wrong to describe its origins as primarliy intellectual, when it was the traumas of the first world war and the Great Depression that led to fascism's triumph.  Moreover intellectuals were only important in its early stages before it achieved popular support, while fascism radiated a contempt for coherent thought (Paxton quotes one Italian fascist who declared \\"The fist is the synthesis of our theory.\\")  Often lurid psychological explanations of fascism cannot explain why sexual repression and misogyny did not lead to fascism in France or Britain.  Fascism was not simply a puppet of capitalism, since Henry A. Turner has demonstrated that most German businessmen preferred an authoritarian solution.  Yet it cannot be said that fascism was anti-capitalist:  its rhetoric was precisely that, and fascism could not have come to power without the support of the conservative establishment.  The idea that fascism is the result of atomized \\"masses,\\" one supported by Hannah Arendt, does not do justice to the fact that pre-1933 Germans joined hundreds of private clubs and associations.  Nor is \\"totalitarian\\" a useful label, since it does not explain the chaotic, competing and disorganized nature of the Nazi state.  Describing it as a \\"political religion\\" is not very helpful either.  Such a theory implies that fascism is a response to the spiritual crisis caused by secularism (so why in Germany and not in England?) and implies that fascism and Christianity are fundamentally opposed (which does not do justice to their complex, equivocal relationship).  Describing fascism as a \\"Developmental dictatorship\\" is also not convincing.  Italy grew faster before 1914 and after 1945 than it ever did under Mussolini.  What we see in fascist states are a conflict between \\"normative\\" and \\"prerogative\\" sectors, one governed by rules the other increasingly by the dictator's desires.  Paxton goes on to discuss the tug of war (a useful metaphor) between fascists and conservatives, the leader and the party, and the party and the state.  <br />If this is fascism, then what isn't?  Paxton makes the provocative, and to my mind convincing, argument that the Ku Klux Klan could be seen as the first intimation of fascism.  By contrast Paxton's definition as fascism as popular mobilization against democracy allows him to dismiss a variety of movements as non-fascist.  Islamic fundamentalists are not fascist, because the Moslem states they are fighting are not democratic.  By contrast, because Israel is a democracy, its chauvinist and sectarian elements could, ironically, mutate into fascism.  But Peron, or the Brazilian dictator Vargas were not fascists, since they were neither fighting democracies (in fact Peron was freely elected at least twice) and both provided some genuine encouragement to labour movements.  Paxton seems a bit uncertain about Spain:  on the one hand Franco appears as a traditionalist and an authoritarian.  On the other hand he certainly squelched Spanish democracy, slaughtered 200,000 people during World War II and before 1945 freely indulged in very fascistic rhetoric indeed.  On the other hand Imperial Japan did have a fascist movement, but after assassinating several prominent politicians it was suppressed by the state in 1936.  <br />Whereupon it purged itself of any remaining liberal and democratic impulses and engaged in a record of aggression and atrocity that well merits comparison with its Nazi ally.  This leads us to a problem.  Paxton emphasizes power and economic interest over ideology and national spirit.  But what about violence?  So when Paxton seeks to distinguish between fascism and authoritarianism, he should have made clearer that the difference is not necessarily a moral one.  Suharto's regime was little more than a spectacular kleptocracy, but he murdered hundreds of thousands of Indonesian communists and nationalist Timorese.  Perhaps we need another definition that would deal with Apartheid, the Rape of Nanking and the destroyers of the world trade center.  And since it is the failure of conservatives to hold power themselves that made them turn to fascism, some discussion of how modern conservatives win elections might be helpful.  The footnotes have the odd habit of referring to future and past pages in the book, and at one point Paxton confuses Walther Funk with Wilhelm Frick.  But nevertheless this is a remarkably clear and sensible book.	2004-03-28
US	52562171	RQLRML21MYYLY	0684871424	865258135	Napoleon: A Political Life	Books	3	26	33	N	N	Napoleon the nice?	Well, no, not exactly.  But this is certainly the most positive recent biography of the Emperor, many of which compare him to Hitler.  Steven Englund's new work is a not altogether satisfactory hybrid.  On the one hand it is well aware of recent scholarship and frequently refers to it in the notes.  On the other hand it is less detailed and less informative than one might expect.  Ian Kershaw devoted 1,400 pages of text to Hitler, not counting notes.  By contrast Englund devotes about 475 pages and here less is less.  Compared to recent biographies such as Paul Preston's Franco, Richard Bosworth's Mussolini or Herbert Bix's Hirohito, this is a less successful book.  Another problem lies in its basic thesis.  It is complex:  Napoleon was a vain man who lusted for military glory and who ultimately failed because he refused to compromise at key points in his reign.  But at the same time he was also the advocate of a vaguely progressive reform (which in my view seems to get vaguer as time goes on).  The problem with this thesis is not that it is untrue.  Indeed it is basically true.   But it is poorly presented and argued, with certain lacunae on the way and a certain apologetic tone.<br />As one reads the book we are reminded of Napoleon's virtues.  He was a brilliant general, obviously, such as the quartet of victories he won in five days a few months before his first abdication. He was capable of genuine love (unlike Mussolini and Hitler). He was willing to listen to the advice of people who disagreed with him, he was capable of being calm and reasonable towards people who had crossed him.  (Indeed one future conspirator was automatically promoted to general while imprisoned for another plot.)  He also possessed genuine courage, getting up after his horse was killed under him, daring opposing French soldiers to either join him or kill him just before the Hundred Days.  His reign allowed a certain rule of law and a certain toleration.  During his reign he made usefulcontributions to French society with a more efficient bureaucracy, a new law code, some improvements to education, financial stability, and French stability.  Having said all that, there is a certain indulgence in Englund's account.  Some of this can be allowed.  It is true that Napoleon arranged the judicial murder of the Duc D'Enhigen, but the Allies had been involved in disingenuous plots that involved assassinating French officials.  It is true that Napoleon, in his diplomatic proceedings, showed bad faith and aggressiveness.  But often his enemies did as well.  Yes, Napoleon instituted censorship and had perhaps 2,500 people imprisoned.  But many of these were actually rebels or brigands, and there was nothing like the hundreds, perhaps thousands, of summary executions after the restoration in 1815.<br />But there are also problems.  There are slips in Englund's account:  the Gracchi brothers were second century BCE, not third; the inflation France faced in the 1790s was not the first in history; the June 1799 \\"coup\\" was not directed against Neo-Jacobins, but a neo-Jacobin impeachment of the executive; Napoleon's second wife was not the niece, but the grand-niece of Marie Antoinette.  Englund is vague and diffuse about how Napoleon was able to appeal to his soldiers, or when he decided that he wished to become emperor once and for all.  One of the most striking things about Napoleon's rule was how popular politics seemed to vanish and poltical dissension apparently evaporated.  Englund has little to say about this, aside from the fact that Napoleon was genuinely popular.  On questions such as the Neo-Jacobins whom Napoleon overthrew in 1799, or the nature of national consciousness in France and the rest of Europe, or about religious feeling under the Empire, Englund has little to say.  Likewise Englund argues that while French occupation could be rough, it did have some progressive aspects.  Perhaps, but Englund does not provide the detailed (and somewhat lessoptimistic) discussion that David Blackbourn and James Sheehan gave in their histories of Germany, nor does Englund really confront the harsher case by Timothy Blanning or Simon Schama.  The overall significance of the Empire for the French economy is not made clear, and while Englund notes that there was prosperity he does not dispel the feeling that it was ultimately peripheral.  Particularly striking for me is that Napoleon's attempt to reestablish slavery in Haiti is only given a page, while the tens of thousands of Haitians who died as a result of this attempt are not mentioned at all.  <br />As the book goes on Napoleon becomes more ruthless, less willing to hear other people's advice, more contemptuous of the revolution's legacy and less deserving of our sympathy. There are surprisingly few monuments to him in Republican France.  One is reminded how for centuries European monarchs have schemed and plotted for glory and how, for nearly two decades the second son of a minor Corsican noble systematically beat and humiliated them.  One is reminded of the oceans of sycophancy that have surrounded dynastic rulers and then remembers that Napoleon is the one monarch who actually did something to deserve his.  One might say that is all the monument Napoleon needs.  More important, it is all he truly deserves.	2004-03-16
US	52562171	R1QDY1L5IPAGDS	0831703989	693721921	Angel of Darkness	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Dark, complex, difficult, important	Ernesto Sabato's third book, \\"The Angel of Darkness\\" is not an easy novel to summarize.  Although it contains fantastic elements it is not a work of magic realism.  It contains a number of themes and characters which do not develop in an orderly or chronological way.  The major character in the book is Sabato himself, in a way that is not played for the usual metafictional tricks.  The book contains various memoirs and memories, dialogues between the various characters, historical accounts (such as the last days of Che Guevera, who as it happens was Argentinian), an interview excerpted from Playboy which seems like a parody, but unfortunatley isn't, and a horrific description of torture.  It is a tribute to the richness of the Latin American novel that Sabato could use such a complex form.<br />Some context is necessary.  Many Latin American novelists of the boom were socialists and sympathetic to Castro.  Jorge Luis Borges, of course the most famous of Argentinian writers, was by contrast noticeably conservative and indulgent of the various military regimes that inflicted themselves on the country intermittently between 1930 and 1983.  Sabato himself could be described as a liberal, and there are several passages where Sabato defends literature and an authentic appreciation of Marx from the crude Social Realism of left-wing rebels.  The time is 1973 and Argentina is ruled by yet another military regime.  As English readers should be aware, 1973 marked the period of the false second coming of Peron.  As the year went on the military regime found itself compelled to hold elections which the Peronists won.  They soon arranged for Peron to return from exile and win the presidency himself with his shallow young wife as vice-president.  In 1974 Peron died, his incompetent wife took power and Argentina was soon riven by left wing and right wing terrorists as Peronism's innate demagoguery proved unable to cope with severe economic crisis.  It was overthrown by the army in1976 who scarred Argentina by murdering or \\"disappearing\\" thousands of its citizens.<br />Sabato published his book in 1974 and so obviously could not have known about this.  But this is a good period for taking an apocalyptic tone.  Early in the book a drunken outcast will see the vision of the Great Beast of Revelation.  Near the end he will tell others of what he has seen.  Meanwhile Sabato, who was originally trained as a scientist, seeks out the supernatural and the mystical in order to find an antidote to Stalinism, simple-minded \\"Progress\\" and a superficial positivism.  Throughout the book he finds himself with sinister mediums, some of whom were collaborators with the Nazis.  He speculates about the geopolitican Haushofer and his links with both the Nazis and the Occult.  The theme of Revelation is repeated, most strikingly when Sabato is accosted by a quack who provides an anti-semitic version of the Gnostic myth.  One is tempted to see this as a subtle prophecy of the men who tortured Jacob Timmerman. As he passes through the streets Sabato sees or conjured up a young couple, a brother and sister who may be incestuous.  Later on we meet them, and see the brother's disillusion with Sabato's \\"selling out\\" as well as his memories of his family's old anarchist retainer.<br />One of the things that disturbs Sabato is the ecological crisis and the fear of a vacuous dehumanized techonology.  Looking back on them after thirty years these seem somewhat unimaginative and formulaic.  Yet we should asks ourselves whether this is because we have become too complacent.  We may look smugly as Sabato includes a press item that suggests that \\"all marine life will be decimated or even eradicated by industry.\\"  But then who would have thought that overfishing would destroy the Atlantic cod fishery?  So one should be careful as one reads about a man whose entire body used to belong to other people, or the surreal nightmare of ads where Sabato is engaged to a television celebrity with Borges as his best man, or the series of press clippings which discuss a lynching, police courses on torture, Thor Heyerdahl confronted with pollution, a horrific abortion and an account of Hiroshima.  Argentina started out the last century as the most \\"progressive\\" country in Latin America, the one most likely to join the European core of wealthy nations.  But since the first world war it has faced relative decline, economic crisis and dictatorship.  Over the past few decades the same hollow promise has been made to many other third world countries.  So when at the end Sabato's friend speculates on death and the death of those close to him, there is something meaningul when he comments \\"that one day everything will be past and gone, forgotten, obliterated, even the formidable walls and the great moat that encircled the impregnable fortress.\\"	2004-03-16
US	52562171	RWHR9J090GY8S	0300101651	746935628	Vixi: Memoirs of a Non-Belonger	Books	2	39	93	N	N	A Hero in his own mind	When I heard that Richard Pipes' memoir would be subtitled \\"Memoirs of a Non-Belonger\\", I thought to myself, great, another conservative who acts as though voting for the Republicans was an act of profound moral courage.  And sure enough, whether it is his debates with the revisionists and the Sovietologists, or his stance as an arch-opponent of dtente, or during his brief tenure as a member of Reagan's National Security Council, Pipes consistently portrays himself as an isolated figure armed with nothing but the truth on his side.  One would not know from his account that for several decades Pipes was a prominent contributor to such eminently respectable journals of the centre as \\"Encounter\\" \\"The New Republic\\" or \\"The Times Literary Supplement.\\"   <br />Yet in a way that he would not appreciate, Pipes is a non-belonger.  At one point he comments \\"Until adolescence, everything I experienced other than my own thoughts and feelings seemed to lie outside of me and to be not quite real.\\"  Reading this book one feels this problem did not go away with adolescence.  The only son of relatively prosperous middle-class Polish Jews, Pipes says he was thoroughly bilingual in Polish and German from an early age.  Yet he was unable to speak with his maternal grandmother, who almost certainly would have spoken Yiddish.  Unlike most Polish Jews he is assimilated, so assimilated in fact that his family is not only able to escape Poland in 1939 but spend a surprisingly pleasant six months in Italy thanks to the intervention of the Polish ambassador there.  (This incidentally is the best part of the book).  But unlike most assimilated Jews he never doubts God's existence.  Indeed while the Holocaust weakened his father's faith, Pipes says it only strengthened his.  He describes himself as \\"non-observant Orthodox.\\" Although he was 16 in 1939, Pipes showed no interest in the struggles within the Jewish Community between Bundists and Zionists, Communists and the Ultra-Orthodox.  It israther odd that he did not hear about the Holocaust until 1945.  True, many other Jews were slow to grasp the truth, but then relatively few of them had been recently exiled from Poland.  There is no realization that Pipes finds any of this odd or unusual.  There is a certain isolation around Pipes, a lack of curiosity in and sympathy for other people.<br />How does this affect Pipes' stature as a historian?  Early on Pipes proudly argues that the Poles killed 91,000 Germans and wounded 63,000 more in their brief war.  Actually Gerhard Weinberg's seminal \\"A World at Arms\\" and Ian Kershaw's biography of Hitler claim total casualties were only 45,000.  But then they did not rely like Pipes did on statistics published in Communist Poland.  Later Pipes will quote Nietzsche out of context, apparently believes that before Columbus Europeans thought the Earth was flat and suggests, quite wrongly, that Yuri Andropov was involved in the attempt on the Pope's life.  But this carelessness with detail is not Pipes' biggest weakness as a historian   At one point Pipes says feminism \\"treat[s] all men as would-be rapists,\\" and reduces Third World Revolution to the Soviets' promotion of \\"political subversion and creating economic dependence.\\"  Such opinions do not show a particularly open or generous mind.  Indeed, he resorts to simple-minded chauvinist stereotypes:  Palestinians are hate filled and destructive, Germans have no sense of humour and care more about hygiene than basic decency.  Russians \\"require a `strong hand' to regulate their public lives.\\"  Nor is Pipes' dislike of Russia confined to its rulers.  To visit the Soviet Union after a cruel and savage war and to say of Moscow's residents that they \\"were culturally and even physically the most backward elements of Russia's rural population\\" or \\"like barbarian invaders\\" who had usurped its urban civilization reveal not pity, nor sympathy nor compassion, but a heartless snobbery.  <br />He cares little more for his colleagues.  Rather strikingly in his acknowledgements to \\"The Russian Revolution,\\" he did not mention or thank a single individual.  Indeed he appears to have learned nothing from his professional colleagues and indeed is so ungracious as to complain that the poor style of his colleagues hampered the sales of the textbook he helped write in the sixties.  One is reminded of how he preposterously accused Orlando Figes of plagiarism. He is cool towards his own students (they are illiterate and ill-informed), and does not mention any of his graduate students (we do see a picture of Daniel Orlovsky and Nina Tumarkin).  His accounts of Sovietology and Revisionism are abusive caricatures where he damns his critics as appeasers and pro-Soviet sympathizers but does not bother to seriously criticize them.  Conservatives may like this, but no fair-minded person will think he has refuted Raymond Garthoff, Frances Fitzgerald, Archie Brown, Stephen Cohen, Ronald Suny or Alexander Rabinowitch.   He argues that anything less than his cold war stance was appeasement, and explicitly rejected both arm control and negotiation.  How his cold war stance supposedly encouraged Gorbachev is not clear, since Pipes' main activity during his short government tenure was to push for sanctions that George Schultz quickly revoked.  There is a smug self-righteousness that cannot bear too close an examination.  It is striking that he can condemn Russians for indulging anti-Tsarist terrorism, while the assassins of Bernadotte, let alone those of Deir Yassin, escape his censure.  He can conclude \\"Property and Freedom\\" with a screed against affirmative action and the welfare state:  does he think the Israeli settlements that his son is a devoted apologist for arose because of the workings of a free West Bank land market?  Ultimately, everyone who challenges his views or criticizes him is always wrong, whether it is Malia or Solzhenitsyn, or whether it is Haig or Schultz.  The only historian who gains his unqualified admiration is himself.	2004-03-09
US	52562171	RGX7IB09AX5ZT	0375421890	444416285	Against Love: A Polemic	Books	2	113	165	N	N	The Case Against the Case Against Love	This polemic has an unusual beginning.  It starts off with a short preface reminding readers that it is a polemic and as such is likely to be exaggerated and unfair.  Swell.  Just what we need, a book that starts off by admitting that it's not really serious.  Even worse, this doesn't really modify Laura Kipnis' argument.  It is important to note what Kipnis is arguing.  She is not arguing that modern marriage is unfair to women.  She is not arguing that sentimentality and romanticism are making it hard for real couples to live difficult lives.  She is not arguing that public moralism over the fate of the children is used as a substitute for ways to actually help them.  She is not arguing that the increasing work week and the demands of employment are making life more difficult for families.  She is not even arguing that love is being puffed up as an individualist panacea while ignoring problems that are collective in nature.  It is true that through her slim little book she makes allusions to all these arguments.  But this is not one of the two much better books on the subject written by Stephanie Coontz.  What she is really arguing against is love itself.  Kipnis, in other words, is a Christopher Lasch for swingers.<br />The result is, obviously enough, shallow and counterproductive.  Kipnis starts off by noting how much the marriage counselling industry makes use of metaphors of work (ie. We all have to work at this relationship).  Where Lasch would have commented on the insidiousness of the culture of therapy, and others might have commented on therapists' poor taste and shallowness, Kipnis leaps to the conclusion that love is nothing more than another rationalization of capitalist labor-discipline.  In her view love is the most successful of Foucault's self-disciplining traps.  One chapter, less than tastefully, is entitled Domestic Gulags, and includes several pages on all the restrictions of a possible marriage.  In Kipnis' view adulterers are quasi-utopian rebels whose desire could potentially be liberating for all.  It should be pointed out that there is little serious discussion of why people get divorced in America (and even less in the rest of the world).  Her facile treatment of love in the past assumes that modern matrimonial love is a modern invention:  but she only mentions the somewhat outdated historians Philippe Aries and Lawrence Stone.   Only once does she mention children, largely to quickly dismiss it.  She also is critical of prosecutions for polygamy, strikingly unaware of both its gender bias and its contractual inequality (men get the benefit of several women, and in Utah anyway it is the man, not the woman, who decides who gets to be the new wife.  What kind of contract is that?)<br />Now Lasch himself could, in his later years, be unsympathetic, judgemental and overly romantic about his lower middle class subjects.  But he would also point out the flaw that if divorce and adultery are somehow \\"radical,\\" why have they increased at the same time the Republican Party has moved from triumph to triumph?  Kipnis looks vaguely radical, and she makes brief allusions to Marx, Thompson and Jameson, but her account is more like Ayn Rand.  The core of Marxism is that because human beings are social animals, the full self-expression of any individual is only possible with the help, and the respect for, other human beings.  It is for this reason that the socialist tradition has been sceptical about sexual promiscuity.   Kipnis has written a book in which the only pleasure of one's company is sex, and cannot conceive that other people are needed to make one truly human.  In this way the comparison with Rand, who saw people only as disciples or acolytes, is even stronger.  Moreover, Kipnis is self-refuting.  Since part of the pleasure of adultery consists of the delirium of falling in love, devaluing love will only devalue adultery.	2004-03-04
US	52562171	R3AYK6NZ05VX4W	1579105270	559243013	Redating the New Testament:	Books	2	38	82	N	N	The illusion of scholarship	Started off as a sort of \\"joke\\" in Anglican Bishop J.A. T. Robinson's words, \\"Redating the New Testament\\" has been used since its publication in1976 to vindicate the conservative Christian attack on modern critical biblical scholarship.  For the past two centuries critical scholars have argued that the only books of the New Testament that can claim apostolic authority are the seven genuine epistles of Paul.  By contrast, while Mark may have been written during the siege of Jerusalem, the other three gospels must have been written afterwards.  Robinson, however, argues that every work of the New Testament was written before the fall of Jerusalem in 70.  Although authorship is not his main concern and he occasionally distances himself from fundamentalists, Robinson supports the traditional attributions of authorship as far as it can go, with the result that the biblical claims appear much more reliable.<br />On the face of it, \\"Redating the New Testament,\\" seems like an impressive work of scholarship.  It relies on the works of hundreds of scholars.  It seems copiously documented, and it contains many complex discussions of the New Testament Greek.  How have biblical scholars viewed this attack on the core of their practice?  Most of them have looked politely at it, said \\"Nice try,\\" and then gone about their work.  They are right to do so.  Under closer examination Robinson is much less impressive.  For a start, Robinson simply assumes parts of his argument.  He does not confront the case that II Thessalonians, Ephesians or the Pastoral Epistles were not written by Paul.  He does not really confront John Knox's argument that Acts is not an accurate account of Paul's life.  The whole synoptic problem is simply dismissed, because a few scholars criticize it, though clearly synoptic orthodoxy is alive and well in 2004.  A tendency to build castles in the air occurs throughout the book.  A questionable dating and place for Philippians is used to build an unlikely date for the pastoral epistles.  The tendentious dating for Matthew and Luke is used to support John.  The tendentious dating for II Peter is then used to support the dating of Revelation and John.<br />Robinson's core argument, by which his book stands or falls, is that the New Testament must have been written before 70, because there is no clear reference to the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple.  But all four gospels have Jesus prophesying the temple's ruin.  Now if Robinson believed that Jesus successfully prophesied this he would have to show that the gospels were written before 70, just like anyone else who claims to predict the future.  So he has to provide other arguments.  The gospel statements are supposedly too vague to be after the fact prophecy, although his comparisons with II Baruch and the Sybilline Oracles do not really support this.  This may just show that the gospel authors were farther away.  Robinson argues that the synoptic suggestion that those in Jerusalem should flee to the hills could not be an after the fact prophecy, because according to a somewhat apocryphal tradition the Jerusalem Church instead fled to the city of Pella.  But this undercuts his argument, since the Jerusalem Church, of all people, would have access to Jesus' traditions and would therefore have followed his advice.  It is all very well to argue that the prophecies have precedents in the Old Testament.  But Robinson fails to ask why Christians would believe in the temple's destruction.  It is one thing to believe that Jerusalem might be attacked, but given their apocalyptic world-view, why would they think that Rome would win?  To the extent that scholars, such as E.P. Sanders, believe there is something genuine in Jesus' predictions, it is that Jesus believed that God would destroy the temple, as part of His ultimate triumph.  Therefore the fact that the Gospels assign the task to Jerusalem's enemies must be a sign of post-70 editing.<br />Elsewhere Robinson engages in questionable assumptions.  He tries to buck up his very weak arguments on II Peter by arguing against the very idea of pseudepigraphy.  In doing so, he makes the questionable assumption that only heretics, and never the orthodox, would want to support their arguments by false attribution.  He argues that Revelation must have been written under Nero and not, as the best church tradition states, Domitian. Since Domitian was clearly a less tyrannical ruler, it would not have been rational to respond with the Apocalypse.  This assumes that Revelation's author was rational.  Yet elsewhere, Robinson will support his arguments with patently legendary and questionable material, as well as make hypothetical arguments that he admits are unsupported (see his discussion of Hebrews, Matthew, Mark, James, II Peter, Revelation, John).  And then there are the larger problems.  Is it really likely that the Christian church would write almost nothing from 75 to 110, at a time when \\"heresy\\" was clearly increasing?  Why would the small Christian community feel the need to write four gospels, all at the same time, and why is John so different from the other three?  John's gospel has no exorcisms, no real parables, only the briefest mention of the Kingdom of God and is the only one where Jesus says \\"I am the way, the truth and the life.\\"  And why is everything written in Greek?  Robinson could assume in 1976 that Judea was so Hellenized that it would be perfectly natural for everyone to speak Greek.  But in the past few decades it has been clear in works by Freyne, Sanders, Meier and Dunn that this is much less likely.  One still has to explain the gap from the rural world of Galilee to the urban world of the Greek diaspora, and Robinson doesn't.in questionable assumptions.  He tries to buck up his very weak arguments on II Peter by arguing against the very idea of pseudepigraphy.  In doing so, he makes the questionable assumption that only heretics, and never the orthodox, would want to support their arguments by false attribution.  He argues that Revelation must have been written under Nero and not, as the best church tradition states, Domitian. Since Domitian was clearly a less tyrannical ruler, it would not have been rational to respond with the Apocalypse.  This assumes that Revelation's author was rational.  Yet elsewhere, Robinson will support his arguments with patently legendary and questionable material, as well as make hypothetical arguments that he admits are unsupported (see his discussion of Hebrews, Matthew, Mark, James, II Peter, Revelation, John).  And then there are the larger problems.  Is it really likely that the Christian church would write almost nothing from 75 to 110, at a time when \\"heresy\\" was clearly increasing?  Why would the small Christian community feel the need to write four gospels, all at the same time, and why is John so different from the other three?  John's gospel has no exorcisms, no real parables, only the briefest mention of the Kingdom of God and is the only one where Jesus says \\"I am the way, the truth and the life.\\"  And why is everything written in Greek?  Robinson could assume in 1976 that Judea was so Hellenized that it would be perfectly natural for everyone to speak Greek.  But in the past few decades it has been clear in works by Freyne, Sanders, Meier and Dunn that this is much less likely.  One still has to explain the gap from the rural world of Galilee to the urban world of the Greek diaspora, and Robinson doesn't.	2004-02-26
US	52562171	R1QLVB6JGE7Y0C	0684843404	966553941	For the Survival of Democracy: Franklin Roosevelt and the World Crisis of the 1930s	Books	2	27	45	N	N	Bland	Over the past few decades Alonzo Hamby has gotten a reputation as one of Americas leading political historians.  This book shows this reputation is quite undeserved.  The books theme is simple.  Hamby looks at the Depression years, mostly in the United States but with comparisons to Nazi Germany and Conservative Britain, and presents what might be described as the Goldilocks thesis.  The United States had bold, vigorous and democratic leadership under FDR, but failed to end the depression.  Germany ended the depression under leadership that was bold, vigorous and dictatorial, but was, of course, also evil and nihilistic.  Great Britain, under the stolid leadership of Baldwin and Chamberlain, gets economic recovery just rightuntil Munich.  <br />Since most histories of the New Deal are far more sympathetic to Roosevelt and since popular opinion of Baldwin and Chamberlain is generally much less sympathetic, this book may appear to be bold and original.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  It would be more accurately described as Bill Clinton history, since it consists of splitting the difference between Roosevelt and his Republican critics.  But it is not based on any substantially new research.  This book could have been written three or four decades ago without changing its basic argument.   His account of Britain depends on the apologetic approach towards Baldwin and Chamberlain in British historiography that developed through the seventies and eighties.  Although Hamby quotes a few more recent works on the Third Reich, he is still inspired most by William Shirers four decade old book, notwithstanding the strong dislike of it by most historians of modern Germany.  His discussion of the New Deal period is based on readily available sources like Roosevelts published papers, classics by Leuchtenberg and Dallek, and a number of centrist journals like The New York Times, The Times, The Economist, Walter Lippmann and likeminded people.  The result is a book that is derivative at best, and with a shallow, undistinguished style.  It is absurd to say that Hindenburg was the George Washington of his country and unthinkingly deferential to say George V had shown himself to be a quintessential Englishman.  It is also morally shallow to say Goering was one of the most loathsome Nazis and start off with the fact that he was fat.  At times it is unforgivably sloppy:  a competent historian should know that Hitler was not born out of wedlock and that Goebbels was not born to humble working-class origins. <br />Other historians have tried looking at the New Deal in more complex ways, looking at who supported the New Deal and why, the basis of political support and opposition, the relationships between the state and the larger society.   One thinks of recent research by authors such as Anthony Badger, Theda Skocpol, Steve Fraser and Colin Gordon.  There is nothing like that in this book.  Nor is there any sustained economic analysis.  Hamby mostly ignores three and a half decades of labour history and simply recapitulates the fear and condescension of moderate journalists at the time.  Instead, Fraser focuses on individuals.  Every chapter starts off with a little profile of an important player, whether it is Eleanor Roosevelt, Herman Goering, David Lilienthal or Henry Wallace.  None of these profiles, it should be said, includes anything that is particularly original or informative or lively.  We hear unoriginal accounts of such well-known events as the presidential elections, the bank crisis, the rise of Huey Long and so on, but the result is basically conformist.  Whether it is the possibility that FDR was too harsh on businessmen, or societys outrage over Edward VIIIs marriage to a divorced woman, Hamby does little but agree with moderate and respectable opinion.   <br />This reaches its nadir with Hambys amazingly indulgent portrait of pre-1938 appeasement.  He portrays opposition to Mussolini as foolish moralism, which helped push him into Hitlers arms.  (He also omits Mussolinis use of chemical weapons, rather ironic given the outrage Hambys fellow moderate conservatives have made over Saddam Hussein.)   There is similar obtuseness over the Spanish Civil War, where Hamby is inclined to think that Britains malevolent neutrality was a good move.  It clearly wasnt:  it undercut France, it worsened relations with the Soviet Union, it emboldened Germany and Italy to continue their aggression, it condemned Spain to four decades of cruel dictatorship, it disheartened anti-fascists world-wide and encouraged complacency among appeasers.   His indulgent picture of Baldwin and Chamberlain ignore Anthony Adamthwaites views on Ethiopia, and the research of Douglas Little and Enrique Moradiellos on Britains bad faith towards Spain.  Overall, much of the discussion of Germany and Britain does not get beyond broad generalizations and stereotypes.  The Germans have been dominated for centuries by authoritarian politics.  Much of the discussion of Britain consists of journalistic anecdotes of charming plucky little upper-class Brits.   What Hamby has done is basically middlebrow journalism, a masters thesis played out to gargantuan length.	2004-02-24
US	52562171	R1INKBEVJPA5YF	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	5	19	27	N	N	Welcome to the Jungle	Richard J. Evans? new book on the origins of the third Reich is the first of a trilogy that will discuss the entire history of the Nazi regime.  The result promises to be the definitive work on the subject.  This book discusses the origins of the Third Reich from the unification of Germany, through to the Weimar Republic, up to the assumption of power until July 1933, when the final non-Nazi party was dissolved.  If you can only read one book on the subject this is it.  It is based on the most thorough command of the secondary literature, its focus is comprehensive and wide, and its conclusions are sensible and subtle.  What are Evans? conclusions?  They will not be surprising to specialists.  The Nazis? militarism, antisemitism and authoritarianism had deep roots going back to the unification of Germany, but for most of the preceding sixty years these beliefs were on the margins of public life.  But practically all non-socialist parties and institutions in the Weimar Republic, whether it be the political parties, the industrialists, the civil service, the army, the judiciary and the universities had noticeable minorities hostile to democratic rule even in the best of times.  By 1932 only the Social Democratic Party truly supported the republic.   Evans is not sympathetic to Bruning, Hindenburg, and Schleicher?s attempts to stop Hitler.  Specialists might note that Evans does not directly refute the argument that Bruning?s desperate deflationary strategy was the only economic policy possible.  Since the argument amounts to the statement that the surgery was a success but the patient died, perhaps that is not surprising.  Bruning?s temporary ban on the SA did not prevent sweeping Nazi gains in state elections a couple of weeks after it was enacted.  Schleicher never intended to use the army against Hitler, and he had neither the power or the resolution or even the intention to crush Hitler.  One theme that may be surprising to readers is the limited role of ideology.Antisemitism had limited (but growing) popularity among the population, and it played a small role in attracting people to the party.  Indeed the party platform was vague and that too attracted people.  The Nazis were able to combine a vacuous populism with enough clich?s of the right to whipsaw the non-socialist, non-Catholic parties and acquire most of their support.  Although the party claimed at times to be revolutionary, their vision of the future was vague, ?they had little or no concept of an inner transformation of Germany beyond purging it of Jews and ?Marxists??, with the stormtroopers murdered at the beginning of the next volume wanting little more than continued street brawling.<br />Evans has deliberately structured his work as a narrative, so as to obtain a wider readership.  How successful is he?  Many narrative historians, such as Simon Schama and Orlando Figes, spice their works with amusing anecdotes.  And Evans provides some useful details here.  Antisemites are unpleasant people and Evans tells of a prominent 19th century one who embezzled the funds for the children?s Christmas party at his school.  William Marr, the man who coined and advocated the term ?Anti-Semitism?, had two Jewish wives.  We learn Gerald Hauptmann, the Nobel prize-winning playwright admit that he supported the Nazis out of cowardice.  Fredrich Ebert, the only democratic President the Weimar Republic ever had, invoked the emergency powers of Article 48 on 136 separate occasions, and also launched 173 unsuccessful libel suits.  During Hitler?s criminally short one-year imprisonment after the Beer Hall Putsch, his prison accommodations were so accomodating he was able to receive 500 visitors.   We learn that Martin Heidegger did not bother to attend the funeral of his Jewish mentor, Edmund Husserl, though the conservative historian Gerhard Ritter did.    More helpfully, Evans reminds us that the Nazis did not burn down the Reichstag, Horst Wessel was murdered for political reasons, and that Goering did not say ?When I hear the word culture, I reach for my gun!?  (A less catchier version comes from a Nazi play).  But fundamentally Evans? book is not a collection of amusing anecdotes.  It is a work of considerable depth and scope (more so than Figes or Schama).  Consider the second chapter ?The Failure of Democracy.?  First we have a discussion of the Weimar Republic?s presidents, its electoral system and its political parties, followed by the lack of loyalty shown by the army and the civil service.  Then we have a discussion of the Great Inflation of 1923, the scars that it left on the body politic and its ambiguous winners and losers, then an account of the difficulties of the industrialists, many of whom gained from the Inflation but who wanted their pre-1914 influence.  Evans then discusses culture, looking at the media, architecture, jazz, sexuality, the young, and the unsympathetic judiciary.  Finally Evans looks at the new welfare system and the complaints of the conservative middle class.  All these subjects are discussed accurately and concisely, based on the more complete and recent literature.  The same thoroughness is valuable in the grim last two chapters of the book, as Hitler seizes power.  He discusses the attacks on the Communists and the Social Democrats, then the suppression of the trade unions and the SPD.  We then learn of the suppression of the Catholic Centre Party, followed by the dissolution of the much smaller parties of the right and center.  We learn of the purges of the civil service (most of whom stayed) and the ?coordination? of Germany?s rich associational life under the Nazis.  We follow with purges of musicians, cinema, literature, painting, the universities, the sciences and finally the Jews.  Only the churches, the army and the major corporations retain their independence, but they cared little for democracy and showed little principled opposition to the Nazis.  All this, and the Nazis? fatalities are still in the low four digits.	2004-02-11
US	52562171	R2KO8B8FMXKU6Z	0691070261	659485310	American Babylon: Race and the Struggle for Postwar Oakland (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	3	20	34	N	N	2.5 stars, like a jigsaw puzzle with half the pieces missing	Over the past few years there have been a number of valuable monographs discussing the crisis of American cities from the fifties to the seventies.  The hallmark of these ways is Thomas Sugrue's Bancroft prize winning The Origins of the Urban Crisis, but there have been many other important works, such as Lisa McGirr's book on Orange County and Lizabeth Cohen's New Jersey focused work on consumerism.  Robert Self's book on the transformation of modern Oakland is, in many ways, a mirror image of Kenneth Durr's recent book on Baltimore.  Whereas Durr was extremely sympathetic to the white working class, he tended to ignore the black population.  Self's book suffers from the opposite problem.  Both books, despite a scattering of archival sources, relied to a noticeable extent on newspapers, many stridently partisan.  Most important, both works are suffused with a tendentious political bias that hampers their effectiveness. <br />To be fair to Self, this is not to say that the story he tells is not a plausible one (It is certainly more accurate than Durr's).  Self relates the familiar narrative of how federal initiatives encouraged the move to the suburbs, while at the same time urban renewal dispossessed the poor and made things worse for a growing African-American population.  Suburbs were constructed in such a way that they got the benefits of increased industry while paying lower property tax rates well into the sixties.  Meanwhile, systematic discrimination by both federal agencies and private lenders ensured that blacks would be strictly segregated into the poorest parts of Oakland.  At the same time, of course, many professions were virtually closed to blacks.  Major plans to revive Oakland did little to change this.  The Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) allowed commuters to zip right through West Oakland to other cities without stopping, while it divided West Oakland neighbourhoods and harmed its commercial districts.  The Oakland Port increased its business tenfold from 1965 to 1969, but although it became the second largest port in the world, it employed few African-Americans and was structured in such a way that city finances received little direct benefit.  During the sixties the War on Poverty did little to change these problems.   Fair employment laws were difficult to enforce, the Office of Economic Opportunity emphasized the acquiring of skills, rather than face the problems of regional disparity, while other agencies trained for blue-collar jobs instead of the white collar ones that were arising.  In response to these problems more radical movements arose, led, of course, by the Black Panthers.  As the sixties moved into the seventies they slowly worked with other groups to increase their power until they finally won the 1977 elections.  Unfortunately, they had little chance to enjoy this power as Proposition 13 was passed the next year, cutting off resources from municipal government state-wide. <br />As I said, this is plausible.  It resembles the fate of many other cities.  Indeed, to a large extent Self's book is a reflection of those other narratives, using them to back up his narrative.  We do not get the same sort of detail that we see in Sugrue about segregation, the patterns of employment discrimination or about the politics of the city.  Indeed, the book is more than half over before we learn what percentage of Oakland was black.  Much of the discussion of politics, whether of the city council, the civil rights movement, the Black Panthers or the Proposition 13 movement has a top-down feel as it concentrates on the leaders.  We do not get the same amount of detail as we did in Sugrue about white opposition to black demands.  At times it seems the Republican party is nothing more that a coterie around William Knowland's \\"Tribune.\\"  There are a few useful specific points.  During this period Oakland elected its city councillors at large, which meant that neighbourhoods could not easily mobilize to defend their own interests.  This gave the well funded Republicans an advantage while at the same it depressed voter turnout.  Self also gives some useful facts about the aftermath of Proposition 13, such as how from 1967 to 1979 the business share of property taxes fell from 46% to 28%.  Indeed, two-thirds of the Proposition 13 tax relief went to business and landlords.  But there are not enough of these points in the book.  Self goes out of his way to emphasize the importance of geography, but aside from making the obvious point that Oakland's fate was bound up with the surrounding municipalities and suburbs surrounding it, much of what he says is wrapped in tedious academic jargon (&quot;Definitions and public discussions of urban decline, in Oakland as in the nation, were embedded in the history of racial segregation and in class-driven conceptions of urban space.&quot;  True, but there has to be an easier way to say this).  One must also object to the way the Black Panthers are euphemized.  Self partially admits their violence, their intellectual crudity and their tendency to posture.  But he does not give these vices the emphasis they deserve, while their misogyny and their demagogic attitudes towards Jews, whites and other political forces goes unmentioned (trade unions virtually disappear after the Black Panthers appear).  Moreover, it is by no means clear what difference they made.  After all, the acquiring of municipal power after it became a prize of questionable value was a common experience in the seventies for African-Americans.  It is hard to see how the Black Panthers were different or more successful than their rivals in African-American politics.  The transformation of Oakland awaits its definitive historian.	2004-02-05
US	52562171	R196SM80YK8FH1	0691096597	34037970	Locked in Place: State-Building and Late Industrialization in India	Books	4	13	14	N	N	It may look dull, but it is important	Vivek Chibber's book on the failures of industrialization is not one that most people are likely to read, even in the unlikely occurrence that they ever encountered it.  Filled with such unenthralling topics as \\"nodal agencies\\", \\"the developmental state,\\" \\"the developmental bourgeoisie,\\" \\"state capacity,\\" and with how to create more efficient and effective bureaucracies, it is not a book that is likely to attract most people's interest.  And it is true that Chibber does not have a style that would bring these topics to life.  Nevertheless this is a book that should not be ignored, because it deals with a very important topic.  As everyone knows, many third world countries sought to industrialize in the post war period with the help of state intervention.  India under the Congress Party was a particularly prominent example of the developmental state.  As time went on this path was ultimately unsuccessful, and for the past two or three decades, the IMF and the World Bank have been encouraging private enterprise and free trade.  According to the advocates of globalization, state encouraged industrialization is a failure.  But there is a striking exception to the narrative of failure:  South Korea.  It is the value of Chibber's book that it explains why India was so much less successful than Korea.<br />One might think that the reason South Korea was so much more successful than its rivals was because it had a streamlined and efficient bureaucracy.  But this is not necessarily the case:  in the mid-eighties it required as many as 310 approvals and 312 documents before permission was granted to form a new industrial plant.   One might think that the difference was the result of the strategy of industrialization.  India, like many other countries, followed an import substitution industrialization (ISI), while South Korea followed an export-led industrialization (ELI).   The difference here is not simply one between protectionism and free-trade:  for a long time South Korea had its own system of tariffs to protect domestic industries.  But an ELI path insured that Korean companies faced the pressures of foreign competitors, while an ISI path often resulted in domestic companies smugly idling in the fleshpots of assured markets.   But Chibber shows that this is not the result of the cleverness of South Korean bureaucrats and the ideological blindness of Indian ones.<br />There were reasons why countries preferred ISI to ELI.  For a start, industrial countries placed tariffs on industrial goods from developing countries in the fifties.  American foreign aid put restrictions on exports during the fifties.  So did many foreign companies.  One Indian committee found in 1969 that 65% of the collaboration agreements it surveyed had export restrictions imposed by the foreign partner.  Moreover, since export markets were competitive and risky and domestic markets safe and assured it was only rational for businesses to resist their governments' push for export drives, which in India and elsewhere they successfully did.  Korea was different.  It had the luck to be the place where Japan needed to outsource its light manufacturing, and this gave it the contacts and places for its own export drive in the sixties to be successful.  Moreover this led to a crucial difference with India.  Because the export markets were both competitive and profitable, companies would support the disciplinary measures the South Korean state imposed to assure that its aid worked.  After all, if one company failed to do what it was supposed to, there would be another to do a better job of it.  By contrast, in India under ISI, there was no such incentive.  There was considerable support for getting state incentives, but there was stringent opposition to enforcing any disciplinary measures.  And so Chibber details how Indian business' call for state planning in the forties was in fact a way to pre-empt more radical measures, that it was call for not socialism, but for capitalist planning.  He discusses how they worked vigorously to take out any teeth in Indian planning legislation, and he also shows how the Congress party demobilized the labour movement, which could have served as a counterweight to Indian business.  And he goes on to discuss how Indian business was able to thwart possible reforms in the fifties and sixties, and how Indira Gandhi's erratic patronage system undermined it once and for all.  He also notes how Korean business eventually became powerful enough that they did not need the developmental state's restrictions, and so started to dismantle it.  The result is a complex, well documented account, which should be read by all shallow advocates of globalization.	2004-02-04
US	52562171	RIH4SPKWZ1WBS	1565848322	950562031	Under The Perfect Sun: The San Diego Tourists Never See	Books	3	52	61	N	N	3.4 stars, three books in one	This interesting work on San Diego, one of the few Republican cities in the United States, basically consists of three works in one, of varying quality.  The third consists of a series of accounts of people from the other San Diego, overseen and edited by Kelly Mayhew.  We here from a founder of CORE, a teacher at San Diego college, a Vietnamese refugee who has now become a peace activist, some environmental activists and trade unionists, as well as several surfers who are trying to stop environmental degradation.  These accounts are interesting, but they're not footnoted and they show only parts of the picture of San Diego without revealing the whole.  The second book consists of an account by Jim Miller that demonstrates the conservative elite's contempt for free speech.  The value of this section depends on what you already know about California history.  If you have read \\"City of Quartz\\" and other works by Mike Davis, you will not learn much.  If you haven't, you will learn about how vigilantes supported by the city elite used strong-arm measures to keep the IWW off the streets of San Diego. The \\"respectable\\" conservative press smirked at beatings, tortures, sexual assaults, while calling for lynch law.  You will also learn how powerful farmers used fascist methods in the thirties to keep Mexican immigrants in line.  This included using actual fascists of the KKK and the Silvershirts while assaulting the Communists who tried to help and threatening their lawyers.  We also learn of the city campaign against Herbert Marcuse, easily the most distinguished teacher the University of California at San Diego ever had, and the University administration's mealy-mouthed failure to assist him.  (They decided to rehire him, then instituted a mandatory retirement policy that only applied to him).  We also learn of threats against the small anti-Vietnam movement and the small alternate press, as well as the city's racist past.<br />It is the first book, by Mike Davis, which is the most valuable as it gives a history of the San Diego ruling class.  Like California Republicans in general, the San Diego elite is fiercely anti-Liberal and anti-Democratic, even though San Diego's prosperity depends on copious government spending (the military).  Also not unlike Republicans elsewhere, the San Diego elite affects a high moral tone, even though they are also the main supporters of Tijuana's free spirited economy and the beneficiaries of the investments of Hoffa's Teamsters and the Midwest mob.  There is also a steady stream of corruption in San Diego's history, from the unscrupulous transactions of John D. Spreckels in the beginning decades of the last century, to the elaborate ponzi schemes of C. Arnholt Smith in the sixties and seventies.  One mayor in the eighties had to resign because of massive campaign fraud.  Another mayor in the seventies barely escaped conviction.  Powerful friends assisted them in many ways.  Nixon probably assured one mayor's acquittal by preventing a key witness from testifying.  A Nixon appointed judge fined Smith $30,000, to be paid over 25 years with no interest, for a bank collapse that had cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation more than all the other bank failures up to that time since 1933.   Davis notes how the San Diego elite wines and dines the military brass, while the army rank and file has to struggle to get decent jobs and affordable housing.   (The military subculture also encourages a docile and uncritical population, though Davis could have expanded this point more).  Davis also notes the selfish, short-sighted city planning, designed to benefit various real estate lobbies.  The result has been beautiful land marred by freeways and \\"concrete commercial sprawl,\\" with residential areas built with no schools or libraries and until relatively lately no supermarkets.  We also learn of the false dawn around Pete Wilson, who appeared to offer an environmentally friendly form of \\"clean\\" government,but who instead engaged in cosmetic reforms, encouraged converting rental apartments to condominiums and sold city land at below-market prices, regardless of possible conflicts of interests.  Although the City elite has changed over the years, the essentially conservative regime and one-party press still continue, with special favours to San Diego's greedy sports teams being the hallmark of the nineties.	2004-01-28
US	52562171	R113IN3BQUQMN4	0300095694	337168217	The Reconstruction of Nations: Poland, Ukraine, Lithuania, Belarus, 15691999	Books	4	55	83	N	N	When nationalists go crazy	There is something very Polish about this book; not merely in the fact that the last third of it is a generous, and somewhat indulgent account of Polish foreign policy since 1989.  There is a tendency within Polish culture towards very black humor; one thinks of Gombrowicz, Kosinski, and Polanski.  What we have here is a story of nationalist obtuseness and narrow-mindedness.  Then, during the Second World War, this nationalism degenerates into murder and mass slaughter.  But after 1989, there is a happy ending, at least for Poland.  It is as unconvincing as a Hollywood film but no less real than that.  Basically Timothy Snyder's book about nationalism in Poland, Lithuania, Ukraine and Belarus deals with a conflict between two rival nationalist conceptions.  1569 saw the formation of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, which covered most of what are now those four countries.  In offered religious tolerance to all and civil rights to the political nation.  The catch was that the \\"political nation\\" was the nobility, and the vast majority of people in the Commonwealth were peasants.   Over the next two centuries the Commonwealth declined and was partitioned out of existence in the 1790s.  As Polish nobles thought about trying to win back their independence, many of them wanted to win back the tolerant, federalist ideas of the old Commonwealth.  However in the 19th century a new, more modern idea of nationalism began to take shape.  In a more democratic age the nation consisted of the people.  Instead of a compromise between various elites, the people, usually defined by language, would form their own nations.  First in Poland, then in Lithuania, then slowly in Ukraine and only very partially now in Belarus, would the second idea triumph. <br />Snyder amusingly shows the many ironies as the nationalists sought to get their way.  One is that Poles had the habit of referring to their former country as \\"Lithuania,\\" a coinage immortalized in the most famous lines of the national poet, Adam Mickiewicz.  Mickiewicz himself never imagined a Lithuania separate from Poland, and never set foot in the Polish heartlands of Warsaw or Cracow, yet his poetry was used by both Lithuanian nationalists and Polish chauvinists to justify partition.  Another irony is that Lithuanian nationalists wished to retake their \\"national city\\" Vilnius and make it their capital, a desire not hampered in the slightest by the fact that less than 2% of Vilnius' residents in 1920 could speak Lithuanian.  There are a whole host of prominent politicians from all four countries who, notwithstanding their patriotic protests, are actually from somewhere else or have relatives and wives from one of the other groups.  Snyder goes on to discuss the Vilnius question in the twenties and thirties.  In the early twenties Poland easily occupied the city, much to the impotent anger of the Lithuanians.  However, as a result of the Nazi-Soviet pact the Soviet Union gave Vilnius to Lithuania.  One would think that the Lithuanians would spend their last days of independence before the Soviet annexation in 1940 trying to find a way of defending themselves.  Instead they spent much of their time quarrelling over Polish theatres and the possible threat from a defeated and dismembered Poland.  Nor were they entirely wrong to do so.  For decades Lithuanian nationalists had feared Polish culture more than Russian.  Oddly enough, Soviet occupation vindicated that judgement.  Notwithstanding the fact that the Soviets deported 5% of the Lithuanian population in the forties, the proportion of Vilnius that was Lithuanian increased from 2% to 50% by 1990.  <br />If Polish-Lithuanian relations were strange, relations with Ukraine were kind of sick.  By the late thirties a small, quasi-fascist group, known as the OUN had formed.  At the time it was much less popular in Polish Ukraine than socialism, moderate agrarianism, or Soviet communism.  Not even the Great Famine in Soviet Ukraine had dimmed Russophilia.  But then the Germans conquered all of what is now the Ukraine and the OUN saw its chance.  After working with the Nazis to slaughter Jews, in 1943 it saw its chance with German weakness to strike out on its own.  As part of its anti-German and anti-Soviet/Russian strategy it sought, not to attack the Germans, or the Soviet partisans, so much as to slaughter the Poles living in Volhynia region, a process both evil and insane.  The pages describing this are truly stunning, backed up with archival evidence, as the OUN butchered 70,000 Poles.  The Poles responded, often with substantial brutality (they killed perhaps 20,000 Ukrainians), with both the Home Army and Polish Communists involved.  After the war there was a \\"transfer\\" of Polish and Ukrainian populations.<br />However, once 1989 came along Poland followed a policy of supporting the independence of Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine and keeping their present borders.  Any concerns over national minorities would not get in the way of basic civil relations.  The other three countries were not wild about this, but they accepted it as a way of getting close to Europe.  Snyder is very informative but I have some cavils.  First, the struggle is largely between different ideas of nationality; other conflicts, whether between classes, over political mobilization, and over religion, are not as well treated.  Second, Snyder does not really explain why Russian and later Soviet culture had so little impact on the Lithuanians and Ukrainians.  One would not know, as Stephen Kotkin reported in 2002, that perhaps a majority of Ukrainians regret independence and certainly show much less enthusiasm for it now.  Third, there is something disconcertingly apologetic about the treatment of the Greek Catholic/Ukrainian metropolitan Sheptyts'kyi.  He may have sheltered Jews, but he supported using the more \\"moderate\\" OUN faction as a potential Ukrainian army by becoming an SS division.  His denunciation of slaughter in 1942 came after 17 months of the systematic slaughter of Ukrainian Jewry.	2004-01-21
US	52562171	R248H3L7Z4IN5N	1852853972	311045339	Witches, Druids and King Arthur	Books	4	63	74	N	N	Hit and Myth	Collections of essays by major historians can be a mixed bag.  Ronald Hutton's new collection is one of the better ones.  This is a collection of nine essays where Hutton tries to shed light on the murky world of magic and myth.  The book begins with an essay on how myths were made, and then follows with  two essays on King Arthur and Glastonbury.  The next two essays deal with the problem of modern paganism and its connection to ancient paganism.  The first deals with ancient paganism and the second deals with its convoluted path to the present day.  Then we have a chapter on the existence of ritual nudity, one on Christianity in C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien, one on modern druids and a final chapter on Hutton's experience writing his previous book on modern witchcraft.<br />What is the result of this interesting concoction?  Let's start off with some problems.  The essay on druidism is somewhat dry and is largely about complicated internal squabbles among modern druids.  The opening chapter starts off by pointing out how modern Celtic nationalism is based on myths.  We learn about the story (first told by Hugh Trevor-Roper, to whom the book is dedicated) of how the kilt was not the ancestral uniform of the Highlanders but was designed by an English businessman in Scotland in the 1700s who wanted more convenient clothing.  Much of the origins of Welsh and Cornish nationalism come from romantic English sympathizers.  But the discussion of Irish nationalism is disappointing.  Who, after all, is Hutton trying to refute in pointing out that many nationalists have English, Norman and Protestant origins?   Everyone in Ireland knows that Wolfe Tone and Parnell were Protestants.  It is Unionism, not Republicanism, that defines Irish nationalism as no more than a whining Catholic sectarianism.  And Hutton's deflation of the \\"myth\\" of Drogheda, based mostly on one contentious recent monograph, ignores the hundreds of thousands who died in the course of Cromwell's supressionof the Irish rebellion.  Finally there is a certain undue sympathy towards the mystics and magicians he is covering.  In his deflation of the remarkable claims about Glastonbury Abbey, that Arthur's bones are buried there and that it is where Joseph of Arimathea came to England, he goes out of his way to suggest that they could conceivably be true.  At one point he refers to modern paganism as an \\"entirely valid religion\\" that, notwithstanding its claims to the contrary, dates no earlier than the first decades of the twentieth century.  That is all very liberal and tolerant, but one wonders what an \\"invalid religion\\" would be like. <br />Having said that however, much of the rest of the book is interesting and useful.  To turn back to the opening chapters on myths, not only do we learn of the origins of the quite false statistic that nine million people were killed in the witch trials, we also learn of the limits of oral history.  Contrary to what many people have thought, oral traditions become dramatically less accurate after a century or so.  Hutton goes on to describe how he tried to use oral traditions to supplement his earlier histories of the English civil war and was maddeningly unsuccessful.  Sir Henry Ireton supposedly defends the honor of a daughter he did not have, Oliver Cromwell dies a non-existent violent death, Charles II's fate is confused with his father's, major events go by with some areas completely forgetting them, while others \\"remember\\" non-existent romantic trivia.  Meanwhile the Cornish, who in the 16th century rebelled against the rise of Protestantism, now remember themselves as Protestant heroes.  We also learn the most recent research on King Arthur.  The earliest reference to him comes in the early ninth century.  In the seventies there was a surge of archaeological research which supposedly proved Arthur's existence.  Hutton shows that it proved nothing of the sort, but is cautious about the idea that Arthur never existed.  We also learn how Tolkein's  and Lewis' fantasies deviate from Christianity.  In the two chapters on late paganism we learn about the traditions of late paganism and how they were transferred to the modern day.  There is much talk about neoplatonism and the mysterious Sabians and the Arabian city of Harran, but Hutton is clear in showing that there was no direct continuous tradition from either source.  When some of this neoplatonism surfaced in the twelfth and fifteenth centuries, they were mostly used by intellectuals who wished to use classical insights to strengthen Christianity.  Hutton reminds us that the old distinction between religion (supplication to a God) and magic (invoking divine power for one's own ends) is still possible and still alive.  Although modern pagans use ideas from neoplatonic and Egyptian magic, Hutton notes the contrast between modern optimism and late classical pessimism, the abstinence of the past with the sexuality of today, as well as the modern Pagan appeal to the people and the strictly minority and mysterious nature of the late paganism they invoke.  There are many strange areas of the past that have been ignored by historians and are now dangerously infested with cranks.  Ronald Hutton is a fine guide to these obscure areas.	2004-01-15
US	52562171	R2OOR007RV8WJ7	0300101457	895872561	Greek Gods, Human Lives: What We Can Learn from Myths	Books	2	71	150	N	N	God doesn't love you and it serves you right	So what does world-renowned classics Professor Mary Lefkowitz do when she is not criticizing Martin Bernal?  Apparently working on this book on Greek Gods.  To our secular and Christian eyes Greek divinities appear frivolous and spiteful.  With their promiscuity and their vendettas they appear very human, except that they are immortal and they can kill people with lightning bolts.  It has been hard for people to think that the Classical world could have taken them seriously.  But in fact over the past few decades historians such as Paul Veyne, Robin Lane Fox and Ramsay MacMullen have argued that \\"Paganism\\" was taken very seriously by its adherents.  It was not in intellectual decline or crisis when Constantine appeared on the scene, while what we might consider secular or rational thought was only that of a marginal unimportant minority.   So far, so good.  Lefkowitz seeks to argue that the Greek Gods are not frivolous and are not petty.  In much Classical literature they may appear to be slow to recognize the suffering of humanity.  But this is illusory.  The Gods are not divinised humans, they are clearly superior beings in every respect.  The ages and eras of humans are but moments to them, they cannot be expected to have our sense of time.  More importantly, the world was not created for humans, who are but minor players on the earthly stage.  There is such a thing as divine justice, but it is narcissistic and sentimental to assume that it revolves around right treatment of humans.  By their own, inevitably superior, standards the Gods act with justice.  Lefkowitz is rather attracted to this ideal, since the absence of what we might consider justice is a realistic way of viewing how the world works.  Homer and others provide a grimly truthful theodicy, whereas later ideas from Plato, the Stoics or Ovid unduly and sentimentally subordinate God to man.  <br />Over and over again Lefkowitz tells how in Classical Literature the manipulations of the Gods are the keyto the events that happen.  Lefkowitz asserts that when correctly viewed all the acts that happen show the seriousness of the Pantheon.  It is just and proper that the Trojans are punished, their city destroyed, their population slaughtered and their women raped and sold into slavery because they are all collectively guilty of the abduction of Helen.  But it is also just that the Gods extend the Trojan war and inevitably kill many of the Greeks attacking the city so that the Gods can fulfill a promise to Achilles' mother so that Achilles can Achilles can be covered in glory (before meeting his own inevitable death).   And it is also just that the Greeks are punished for not rebuking one of their own for raping Cassandra in a temple dedicated to Athena.  Such violations of ritual purity are more important than the offence done to Cassandra, who is later murdered without any of the Gods stepping in to intercede.  It is proper that the seven sons and the seven daughters of Niobe are killed because Niobe insults the honor of the mother of Artemis and Apollo.  It is likewise also proper that Aphrodite drives Phaedra mad with lust for her stepson because he insulted Aphrodite when swearing himself to eternal celibacy.  It is proper that Oedipus and Antigone and Agamemnon meet the fates that they do because they have been cursed by the Gods.   <br />What is wrong with this account?  Part of the problem is that much of the book consists of summaries of Classical literature.  Lefkowitz clearly belongs to the late Allan Bloom school of shallow, tendentious and interminable paraphrase as we read her accounts of Hesiod, the Illiad, The Odyssey, the Aenied, The Orestian Trilogy, the Oedipean trilogy, the story of Jason and the Argonausts and the Golden Ass.  Oddly however, we do not examine Prometheus Bound, nor do we really get an idea of why writers changed myths until after the great age of Classical literature.  This refusal to consider change makes Classical literature lessambiguous than it actually is.  There is also a certain tendentiousness.  Lefkowitz dismisses the God/Human matings as marginal and ultimately inconsequential to the divine life.  But sex implies an equality between Gods and mortals; otherwise bestiality would be far more common than it is.  And Lefkowitz does not really explain why Cupid asked for, and obtained, immortality for Psyche.  But the larger problem is with Lefkowitz's concept of justice.   By what criterion of justice can the population of Troy be punished while Aphrodite and Eris get off scot free?  It was Eris who started the war by throwing the Apple of Discord and Aphrodite who promised Paris what was not hers to give.  To argue that because Aphrodite is divine her actions are not frivolous does not convince.   What Lefkowitz asserts is not a proper submission to reality, but an undignified abasement to arbitrary power.  Far from being realistic it abjures reason and encourages contempt and callous indifference towards a humanity that is treated that way.  It is not a coincidence that it was with the rise of Greek democracy that the dramatic view of divine power became more ambiguous, because it was in this period that the population outside a small elite was able to assert some form of dignity.  In claiming otherwise, there is something disingenuous about Lefkowitz's comfortable pseudo-stoicism, and her view of tragedy which behind its veneer of toughness resembles academically sanctioned sadism.  As Terry Eagleton has written:  \\"By no means all Greek protagonists concede that their suffering is justified, accept their guilt or confess that the calamity follows from their own behaviour.  And they are mostly quite right not to do so.  It is the theorists of tragedy, not the victims of it, who imagine that they do, or at least that they should.\\"	2004-01-08
US	52562171	R3GZUIMGDWPBLY	0520237064	87906000	Whitewashing Race: The Myth of a Color-Blind Society	Books	4	48	56	N	N	3.5 stars, against Stephen Thernstrom	Should one send political scientists to do a historian's job?  That is the question one has to ask about this book compiled by a consortium of political scientists, in response to the \\"racial realism\\" of today's right-centrist consensus.  This consensus, argued by such authors as Jim Sleeper, Tamara Jacoby, John McWhorter, The New Republic and the renowned historians of American immigration Stephen and Abigail Thernstrom, argue that racism is not really a problem in American life.  To the extent that African-Americans are disadvantaged it is because of their own failings or, somewhat more tactfully, the failings of the black politicians and the guilty liberals they (overwhelmingly) support.<br />This book argues that this fundamentally optimistic view is wrong.  They are right to say so and their book is very detailed and comprehensive (the Thernstroms in particular are repeatedly criticized).  Still the book is not perfect.  The book makes an error in numbering its footnotes in chapter five.  It also incorrectly says that until recently there were no African-Americans elected from North Carolina since Reconstruction (one in fact was elected in 1898).  The style is not very engaging, it consists mostly of summaries of papers in economics, political science, sociology and the other social sciences.  The result is a certain dryness and abstract quality that could use more historical analysis (the treatment of unions is somewhat superficial).  The discussion of racism is not the most thoughtful available (and little is said about Latinos).  Nevertheless one should not ignore its points.  \\"Racial realists\\" argue that racism is not a problem because only a handful of people would support racist attitudes in opinion polls.  There are several problems with this argument.  Aside from the fact that people do not necessarily volunteer their support of unpopular ideas, it turns the concept of racism and racist harm into a question of pure malice.  If there is none (or if it somehow \\"rational\\") there is no racism.  One might ask why showing discrimination should require showing malice, when other torts merely require showing negligence?  Also it is a non-sequitur to argue that if whites are not malicious, blacks and/or liberals must have screwed up.  Moreover, rephrasing the question can lead to rather different results:  in a 1980 poll only 5% supported segregation, but only 40% supported a law stating that a homeowner could not refuse to sell because of race.  The authors go on about how in the post-war period African-Americans were discriminated in social security legislation, GI bill benefits and housing segregation.  We also relearn about the insufficiently notorious effects of urban renewal and automation.<br />What is best about the book are the statistics it provides showing consistent racial gaps, even when corrected for class, age, income or any other variable.  For example 53% of mortgages in black Chicago middle-class neighbourhoods are from sub-prime lenders, whereas only 12% of mortgages in white neighbourhoods are.  African-Americans are 25% less likely to get mammograpy screening, notwithstanding age or income, while a 1985 Massachusetts study showed that whites underwent significantly more corony surgery than blacks. 61% of basketball players were black in 1996-97, but 81.5 % of coaches were white; 52% of football players are black but in 2001 nearly 97% of head coaching positions were white.  During the 1990s in Los Angeles, Latinos make up 41% of the population, but only 6% of the jurors.  It is often said that spiralling illegitimacy is the key reason for persistent black poverty today, but the President's Council of Economic Advisers has noted that the poverty gap would have fallen by only a fifth had there been no changes in black family structure since 1967.  Likewise the Thernstroms et al have argued that high black youth unemployment is the result of their demand for excessive wages.  Yet studies have shown that their length of employment is not correlated with wage demands.  The gap between black and white test scores has infuriated potential university students.  But the correlation between scores and success is somewhat weaker for women and Asians.  Another questionable use of data by \\"racial realists\\" is their concentration of Berkeley in the 1980s.  There the white graduation rate within 6 years was 88% but only 59% for blacks.  But in 28 other colleges the white average was 86% and the black average 75%.  Might this not say more about the problems of particular universities than an inherent cultural failing of African-Americans?<br />We also learn about a third wave of criminology scholarship and we learn how only 26% of the gap between blacks and whites drug offences in Pennsylvania is the result of the higher arrest rate among blacks.  Even after making every allowance Georgia blacks are five times more likely to get life sentences for drug offences than whites.  We see at every stage of the arrest process, from scholars such as Madeline Wordes, George Bridges, and Michael Leiber, a clear bias against African-Americans.  Although the prospect that somewhere, somehow affirmative action might hurt white men has haunted the conservative imagination, only 4% of 1990-94 sex/age discrimination suits were launched by white men, (yet they file three-quarters of age discrimination suits).  Oddly enough, racial realists have blamed blacks for inadequate black representation.  Supposedly they won't vote for whites.  Yet in the past few decades only 0.5% of white majority districts elections have chosen a black representative.  And whites have shown great reluctance or active hostility in voting for blacks in prominent elections in Chicago, Philadelphia and California.  The authors conclude with sensible suggestions for reforms in education, stronger civil rights protection and an improved welfare state.heir length of employment is not correlated with wage demands.  The gap between black and white test scores has infuriated potential university students.  But the correlation between scores and success is somewhat weaker for women and Asians.  Another questionable use of data by \\"racial realists\\" is their concentration of Berkeley in the 1980s.  There the white graduation rate within 6 years was 88% but only 59% for blacks.  But in 28 other colleges the white average was 86% and the black average 75%.  Might this not say more about the problems of particular universities than an inherent cultural failing of African-Americans?<br />We also learn about a third wave of criminology scholarship and we learn how only 26% of the gap between blacks and whites drug offences in Pennsylvania is the result of the higher arrest rate among blacks.  Even after making every allowance Georgia blacks are five times more likely to get life sentences for drug offences than whites.  We see at every stage of the arrest process, from scholars such as Madeline Wordes, George Bridges, and Michael Leiber, a clear bias against African-Americans.  Although the prospect that somewhere, somehow affirmative action might hurt white men has haunted the conservative imagination, only 4% of 1990-94 sex/age discrimination suits were launched by white men, (yet they file three-quarters of age discrimination suits).  Oddly enough, racial realists have blamed blacks for inadequate black representation.  Supposedly they won't vote for whites.  Yet in the past few decades only 0.5% of white majority districts elections have chosen a black representative.  And whites have shown great reluctance or active hostility in voting for blacks in prominent elections in Chicago, Philadelphia and California.  The authors conclude with sensible suggestions for reforms in education, stronger civil rights protection and an improved welfare state.	2004-01-02
US	52562171	R2R00QAW3QHGPY	0691006962	336799691	Farm to Factory: A Reinterpretation of the Soviet Industrial Revolution (The Princeton Economic History of the Western World)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	3.5 stars, interesting, but not easy to read	The Soviet Union was the perfect failure, so said no shortage of people during and especially after its lifespan.  So to argue the opposite, as Robert Allen's new book does, certainly presents a provocative hypothesis.  Allen's argument is that from 1928 to 1970, the Soviet Union was one of the world's fastest growing economies, with few rivals in the world.  By contrast, the high rate of growth under the last tsars was not sustainable.  Collectivization seems to have encouraged industrial growth, though not enough to cancel out the horrible loss of lives from the 1932-33 famine.  Unfortunately, unwise investment decisions in the seventies and eighties lead to rapidly falling growth rates and the collapse of the system.<br />Allen's argument does not start off well, as he seems to separate Russian development from Europe altogether.  This coincides with Marshall Poe's argument that Russia shouldn't be considered European at all.  This is misleading.  It is true that in terms of poverty, rural population and demographic structure, Russia was behind the rest of Europe.  But this does not mean that it was radically different from it.  Russia is Christian, not Muslim.  Russian is a Slavic language, and Slavic languages are European ones.  Serfdom and feudalism are European institutions distinct from Ottoman and Moghul ones.  However Allen soon gets back on track.  The essential fact of comparative economic performance is that the high-income core generally stays the same, while those outside it fall further behind (relatively).  Occasionally a country is able to enter the high-core club, like Japan, and occasionally another country is expelled, like Argentina.  Given this stability, the Soviet Union's success from 1928 to 1970, where it outperformed all other developing countries except Japan, looks more impressive.<br />But wasn't economic growth high under the tsars?  Surely would it not have reached the heights held by Western Europe?  Clearly not, says Allen, sincethat would require an average 3.3 % growth rate from 1913 to 1989, a rate only held by one country, Japan.  More to the point the Tsarist economic strategy faced severe problems.  Russia's literacy rates were well below Japan's.  Much of the growth in agriculture was the result of the wheat boom.  Had Russia continued to be a wheat exporter it would have faced the disaster of the collapse of wheat prices in the Depression.  Indeed, it would have made it worse.  Argentina's own wheat boom did not last, and even wealthy Australia faced relative decline.  Meanwhile the bulk of the railroad boom was over by 1913, while attempts to encourage a cotton industry were muddled by misguided protectionism.  <br />Allen then discusses the crisis of the NEP.  Given the limits of Soviet soil, agricultural output could not be easily raised until the fifties, when fertilizers became readily available.  On the other hand agricultural productivity could be increased by mechanization and the now surplus agricultural labour could be diverted into industry.  Potentially there is no conflict by increasing the investment needed for mass industrialization and increasing consumption.  Both can increase at the same time.  For Allen a key element to the 1928-1939 period was the use of \\"soft budget\\" constraints.  Instead of basing the number of workers on simple budgetary constraints, constantly raising targets and increasing the demand for workers could increase growth enough that it would compensate for the deviations from strict accounting.  Collectivization's contribution to this process was not the increasing of agricultural production; indeed, it dropped dramatically.  Instead it encouraged, or more accurately forced, rural-urban migration and the growth of industry.  Rather ironically the mass slaughter of horses to protest collectivization was not an unmitigated disaster, since it diverted grain from a rather \\"inefficient\\" animal.  At the same time the Soviet Union benefiting from slower population growth.  Much of this, of course, was the result of Stalinist terror, though nearly three times more important was the result of the Second World War.  But even more important was the relatively quick fertility transition.  Had it more resembled India the former Soviet Union would have had a 1989 population of 825 million.  Allen then goes on to discuss standards of living from 1928 to 1939.   They did seem to increase during this period.  Previous studies suggested that they fell or stagnated, but Allen makes the reasonable argument that the index numbers they used miscalculated inflation and the effect of rural-urban migration.<br />So far, so good.  But there are some problems.  Allen's book is based on secondary literature and all Soviet statistics have a provisional nature.  Allen then goes on to argue that Stalin's industrial strategy was more effective than a possible continuation of the NEP, but not so more effective to justify the loss of lives in the famine.  This is not an unreasonable or inhumane argument.  On the other hand, it would have been far more effective than a simple capitalist standard.   This argument is based on complex computer simulations, which are difficult to read, and even more difficult to verify.  Given that the Soviet Union would have been radically different if it had not followed Stalin's strategy in 1929, Allen's simulation models seem too simple.  The last chapter deals with the decline of the Soviet economy after 1970.  Allen delineates several crucial flaws: attempts to upgrade old factories when it would have been more productive to create new ones; increasing energy production with illusory success at prohibitive cost, when it would have been wiser to increase conservation; the harmfulness of soft budget constraints in a period of labour scarcity, and finally diversion of research and development into the military.  These are interesting suggestions; we will have to see how they play out.	2003-12-23
US	52562171	RJM2KR1Q33ZWJ	0968217532	256931847	Bob the Angry Flower: The Ultimate Book of Perfect Energy!!!	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Another shameless review of my brother's book	Once again, my brother has compiled another collection of his uniquely strange comic strip.  And this time it contains an unpublished story about Lovebot, the Robot programmed to love, as he searches for sexual love and confronts the evil disembodied heart of Dick Cheney.  So is the new book as clever as \\"Coffee with Sinistar\\"?  Is it as consistently strange and peculiar as \\"Everybody vs. Bob the Angry Flower?\\"  Well, now that you mention, no.  It does contain many amusing and intelligent cartoons, but it does not share the same high quality as the previous two books.<br />Some cartoons, like \\"Sleeping with the Fishes\\" or \\"Boggin'!\\" or \\"Rice Roll Long Donut\\" are just gags that don't stay in the memory and don't deserve too.  And there is something a little too glib, or a lot too glib, about the criticisms of Cheney as a murderous lunatic (especially \\"Grand Theft America\\").  One cartoon, in particular, \\"Disputed Territories,\\" just doesn't work.  It implies a number of analogies with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, all of which are offensive and poorly thought out.  I suppose it is slightly mitigating that the author admits that he was not entirely sane when he drew it, but still, it is the sort of cartoon that one (meaning I) should have ripped to pieces and thrown out the window.  Likewise \\"Good Hitler,\\" is a concept that doesn't work very well. \\"What would it be like if Hitler were redeemed?\\" is an interesting idea, but it requires a more serious understanding of redemption and absolution than an upper middle class Canadian born twenty-five years after his death can flippantly provide.  (Especially when he shows little interest in finishing the excellent two-volume Hitler biography by Ian Kershaw his loving brother got him.) <br />On the other hand one should not forget the quasi-tribute to Geza Vermes in \\"WWJD?\\" where Christian theology meets Archie comics.  Or the long-awaited return of the Microneers, and how Bob personally ruins the chances for mid-East peace.  We also get to see the return of the long forgotten Doctor Renticulus!  And sometimes simple ideas work rather well, as in \\"Jetpack\\" and \\"Slogor.\\"  While we don't see the return of Story Guy, we do see continued efforts to make Kofi Annan a comic strip hero.  And although this book continues the last one's resort to gratuitous obscenity, one must appreciate the cunning nerdish tastelessness of \\"Schrodinger's Fridge.\\"   \\"Goin' after the Creationists,\\" is also particularly amusing.  There are several strips on \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" and they work surprisingly well given the innate dweebishness of the subject.  One should also not forget the tribute to Doctor Fortini Markopolou-Kalamara.  The best comic strips are those which show their characters developing or changing, and that clearly, is not happening here.  But there are still some great punchlines:  \\"Not the moral:  Respect the elderly.\\"  \\"I'm sorry.  It wasn't supposed to end like this.\\" \\"Who are you talking to?\\"  \\"Well... you, I thought.\\"	2003-12-17
US	52562171	R34YUZ092TLSLC	156584873X	229309647	North Korea: Another Country	Books	4	53	76	N	N	Next Year's War	No matter how open-minded and cosmopolitan you are, it is hard to think that North Korea is anything other than a deeply weird country.  On the one hand it is a communist dictatorship, but on the other it is apparently a theocratic monarchy.  With the possible exception of Albania and Pol Pot Cambodia, no Communist country produces a propaganda that is more offensive to Western principles, one of relentless flattery to the Kim dynasty.  It is a deeply chauvinistic culture, only that endlessly harps about the virtue of self-reliance and seems to think that all human accomplishment revolves around North Korea.  Yet one can see that many of the electronic devices are actually imports while one sees Korean operas that sound suspiciously like \\"Swan Lake.\\"  Everywhere there is the most garish kitsch about the Kim's, far surpassing Marx or Stalin or Mao, and everywhere one can see the Great Leader's quotations.  (Such as \\"It is important to play the piano well.\\")   All the foreigners are constantly watched and monitored.  Thanks to lengthy military service Korean men appear to remain virgins well into their late twenties and early thirties.  When Kim Jong Il realized that smoking was bad for his health, he not only stopped, but forbid his General Staff as well.<br />But this is only part of the story, as Bruce Cumings points out in his brief but important book on the subject.  As a book, it has the major weakness that much of what he has said he has written before in his books on the origins of the Korean war and his general history of Korea.  But considering that the United States might end up in a conflict that could kill millions of people, it is vital that everybody read this book.  The current regime is a very unpleasant one (Cumings calls it \\"abhorrent\\").  It has at least 100,000 political prisoners and perhaps 150,000 in its local gulags.  Although its economy and living standards may have been as good as South Korea's as late as 1978, its dogmatic economic policy and secretive nature helped worsen major flood and draughts to cause a famine that killed at least 500,000 people.  Its leadership is cruel and it is suspicious, but Cumings reminds us that it is not paranoid.  If it has 700,000 troops on the border merely 100 kilometres from Seoul, Cumings reminds us that South Korea has 540,000 troops, presumably healthier and better armed, on its border merely 100 kilometers from Pyongyang.  Cumings reminds us that behind the monarchical faade the party is dominated by the generation of anti-Japanese guerrillas.  Of the forty top leaders of North Korea in 1997 only one, Kim Jong Il himself, is under the age of 60.  The average age of the Politburo, excepting Kim, was 72.  <br />This is important for a number of reasons.  The Japanese were brutal occupiers, extorting hundreds of thousands of Koreans for forced labor and forced prostitution.  Many of its quislings and pimps became the backbone of the South Korean state, including its greatest leader, President Park.  Not only did the Korean Communist Party have to face the Japanese, they also had to face the paranoid purges of their Soviet and Chinese \\"allies,\\" which Kim Il Sung was lucky to escape with his life.  Then came the Korean war, in which North Korea faced a truly horrific aerial bombing.  Perhaps a quarter of the North Korean population was killed, as dams were destroyed and 867,000 gallons of horrific napalm were used in the first four months alone.  That is one reason why much of the North Korean military/industrial infrastructure is underground.  Another reason why is that the United States has always had a nuclear threat against the North.  After his dismissal General MacArthur spoke of using cobalt bombs to seal the border altogether, apparently unaware that the cobalt he would have used would have been enough to destroy all life on the planet.  This was not simply one powerful man's lunacy though.  The threat was a constant theme in Korean war planning.  After thearmistice, and despite a provision in it preventing qualitatively new weapons from entering the peninsula, John Foster Dulles allowed nuclear weapons into the South.  This was done not so much out of a fear of the North attacking the South, as to discourage the South from attacking the North.  For years the United States has had plans of initiating nuclear weapons within an hour of a potential Northern attack.  Cumings reminds us that nuclear signers of the Non-Proliferation Treaty are not supposed to threaten non-nuclear signers, and that the 1994 agreement required the United States to give formal assurances not to threaten the North with nukes.  Thanks to Republican opposition, those assurances were never given.  <br />It is in this context that Cumings writes of the current nuclear crisis.  The North Korean regime is not very likeable, but it is not the West's enemy, nor the United States'.  And if it has survived the fall of the Soviet Union, the first nuclear crisis and a major famine there is no good reason to believe that is going to go anyway anytime soon.  And one should point out that Korea's democrats, who have suffered things infinitely worse than our doughty warriors against \\"political incorrectness,\\" have consistently called for a peaceful tactful policy.   A deal, involving the end of North Korea's missile and uranium reprocessing technology in return for a formal peace treaty and mutual recognition has been possible and was possible at the end of the Clinton presidency.  But that would require the current president to actually know something about North Korea.  Maybe someone should give this book to him for a Christmas present.	2003-12-11
US	52562171	R2OM1H6YH1CRGB	0674011694	594989275	A Nation under Our Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South from Slavery to the Great Migration	Books	5	63	63	N	N	A historical work of major importance	Every now and then one reads that political history has fallen on hard times.  And there is some truth to this.  Much political history seems awash in a sea of detail, accounts of endless intrigues and bureaucratic machinations whose overall significance is unclear, while regression coefficients run amuck.   Surely, a reader may be tempted to think, Michael Holt's 1296 page history of the Whig Party tell us more than anyone would possibly want to know about the subject.  Steven Hahn's new book is very different.  Twenty years ago he published \\"Roots of Southern Populism,\\" a brilliant monograph on postbellum white Southern farmers.  Now after two decades this new book fully confirms the promise of his first book.  It helps, of course, that Hahn cares about his subject and makes sure that we care as well.  Hahn tells the story of black Southern politics from the last decade of slavery to the civil war through Reconstruction.  Then he goes on about the next two decades before disfranchisement when African-Americans sought to maintain their positions with alliances with the Virginia Readjusters in the 1880s and the Populists in the 1890s.  <br />But surely we already know the basic contours of the story.  Do we really need to be told that African-Americans were not just passive subjects but actively sought their own political ends?  But Hahn provides much more than this.  For a start he provides a much larger definition of politics than other writers might.  He looks at the kinship networks, the importance of church and school, the significance of labor, and the value of community.  Notwithstanding the wide unity of African-Americans he takes special care to discuss differences over region, strategy and especially class.  He notes the rise of more successful blacks, those who benefited from military service, literacy, earlier freedom and access to land.  He starts off by discussing slavery and he gives an excellent discussion of the system of petty production which allowed slaves limited access to markets and money.  We then read up to date accounts of  slave families and slave religion as well as a pioneering discussion of the networks of information that slaves had.   The next chapter deals with the now familiar tale of how hundreds of thousands of slaves fled plantations, 150,000 joined the union army to defeat the Confederacy, while many of the rest engaged in \\"sulkiness, demoralization, insolence and outright insubordination.\\"  There is then a chapter based on much original and new material about the wave of rumours that ran through the south in the fall of 1865 that much Southern land would be divided up and given to the freedpeople.  We learn about the freedmen conventions that made noticeable efforts to attract the rural black majority, as well as the routes and circuits of rumours.<br />The next three chapters deal with Reconstruction.  Hahn points out the scope of political mobilization and the rise of Black militias.  He points out the tremendous feat of registering a largely illiterate population once they achieved the vote, a feat rarely matched in American history.   He discusses the difficulties of interracial cooperation in the Union League and how officials had to yield to popular wishes and sensibilities.  We are reminded of the scope of black office-holding, and especially of the importance of holding local posts during Reconstruction.  Not simply governors, senators or state legislators, but also sheriffs, magistrates, registrars and tax collectors, were vital to hold.  We are also reminded how unprecedented it was for such a deprived class to achieve such power after emancipation.  We are reminded of the constant pressures of vigilantism and economic pressure directed against African-Americans and we also learn about the use of intimidation to counter this.  Associational life boomed with black burial clubs, saving banks, firefighting clubs and mutual aid societies being formed.  We learn of more subtle checkson democracy, such as the widespread use of bonds.  A lowly court clerk might have to post $3,000, while a sheriff might have to post as much as $90,000.  Naturally this only encouraged people to place their dependence on the wealthy who stood as surety for them.  And of course we learn about the Ku Klux Klan, and how they especially targeted schools for their murder and assassination raids.  <br />Part three looks at the \\"Redemption period.\\"  On the one hand blacks were still able to make alliances with Readjusters and Populists.  But the intense hostility whites had to voting for black officials or living in communities run by black officials undermined every alliance.  Hahn points out that this hostility was not simply racism; there were intense ideological prejudices within American ideology that looked down at any underclass, there were few areas such as churches and school where poor blacks and whites could meet, and kinship ties and economic dependence blunted class differences with the Democratic ruling class.  But this hostility existed nevertheless and it was not overcome.  Hahn also discusses such movements as Exodusters to Kansas and colonization of Liberia.  Although they attracted only 25,000 or so in the late 1870s, they had a larger constituency of people who would have liked to move but lacked either the money to do so or were cowed by white opposition.  Hahn points out that emigration was particularly weak in those areas of South Carolina and Louisiana had blunted the worst of redemption, and he also notes that the threat of emigration helped blunt the first round of anti-black Redemption measures in the 1870s.  Hahn also points out these nationalist tendencies lasted well into the twenties, where most of Marcus Garvey's supporters were in the countryside.  Especially noteworthy is Hahn's interest in gender and the importance of women as mothers, political advocates, community organizers  and anti-lynching advocates.  With 101 pages of notes, papers from at least fifteen different archives and a thorough grasp of the secondary literature, \\"A Nation Under Our Feet,\\" confirms Hahn's status as one of the leading American historians.	2003-12-03
US	52562171	RWEJMAQF8MXZF	0674011724	403146636	The Nazi Conscience	Books	4	191	207	N	N	Subversion	On a first glance Claudia Koonz' book on the Nazi conscience appears somewhat disappointing.  Yes, it is fulsomely documented, relying on a wide variety of archival and contemporary sources, while also being copiously illustrated.  But on the other hand this book seems too similar to other books, such as David Bankier and Ian Kershaw on public opinion during the Nazi years, and it does not seem to tell us anything new.  But a closer look reveals something much more interesting.  The title is a bit misleading.  The book is less about Nazi concepts of conscience as it is about the subversion of the German conscience.  The results of this process are both subtle and disturbing.<br /> One day in 1940 a Nazi Youth member saw the Gestapo removing Jewish friend and the rest of the village's Jews and thought to himself, not how unfortunate that this was happening to Jews, but how unfortunate that his friend was Jewish.  Such was the triumph of the Nazi conscience.  As scholars are increasingly aware, the violent thuggish anti-Semitism of Julius Streicher and Nazi thugs was deeply unpopular, while racist ideas were controversial and intellectually questionable.  How therefore could Hitler achieve his ends?  Hitler, along with Goebbels, Himmler and Heydrich were the most radical and extreme of the anti-Semites.  But all three were masters of making themselves appear to be more moderate and rational than they actually were.  Most of the films approved by Goebbels appeared to lack any ideological content, Himmler went out of his way to make the SS appear more aristocratic and intellectual.  Heydrich went out of his way to denounce \\"vulgar\\" anti-Semitic tactics.  And Hitler, for his part, was careful to appear as the spokesman for \\"ethnic fundamentalism.\\"   Hitler's anti-Semitism was good for the cadres, but for the wider population the deeply moralistic, anti-liberal ethnic fundamentalism was better at presenting nihilistic ends in conservative language.  <br /> Koonz points out that as Hitler came closer to power he toned down his comments on Jews, and once in power he was careful not to associate himself too closely to the more unpopular extremists.  Before the war, Koonz points out, he only directly and publicly stated his hatred of Jews three times.  But he could also remind the extremists he was on their side by sneering at ideas, like feminism, as \\"Jewish.\\"   At the same time as he ostentatiously expressed his desire for peace and love for Christianity, Mein Kampf was publicized and its racism implicitly honoured.  Koonz goes on to discuss such topics as academic support for the Nazis (including those old standbys Heidegger and Schmitt).   She discusses the soft-sell techniques of Walter Gross and the Office of Racial Politics.   \\"When speaking to general audiences, Gross appealed to ethnic pride; among Nazis, he mobilized racial hatred.\\"  There is a chapter on the Nazi approach to youth, again showing the same insidious soft sell, such as providing toy tanks to schools, or using Nazi party leaders' names for spelling exercises.  One prominent Nazi primer devoted only 3 of its 256 pages to Jews.  Although teachers and students were often repelled by Nazi cruelty towards Jewish children, the emphasis on Volk and Fatherland helped to make segregation more acceptable.  There are also chapters on law and intellectuals, about how jurists tried to make rational sense of the racist nonsense they were supposed to using, and slowly but surely accepted more Nazi principles.  We also read how the Nazis covered their ideas in pseudo-scientific and pseudo-scholarly garb.  We also read about the complementary roles played by the crude SA and the deceptively \\"moderate\\" \\"intellectual\\" SS.   Denunciation of \\"Jewry\\" played a minor role in the educational materials assigned to SS recruits.  But understating racism made it easier to slip into the more conservative chauvinist consensus.  The result was a society where if Germans did not fully appreciatethe genocide of their fellow citizens, \\"they knew enough to know it was better not to know.\\"  Instead of communist societies which rigidly repeated their rigid dogmas and could expect little better than to have it parroted back to them, Nazi Germany was more successful in gaining internal adherence precisely because it was less \\"totalitarian.\\"  Its conscience was close enough to the pre-Nazi version in its emphasis on sacrifice and high moral purpose to blur those of the majority and encourage the cruelty of its soldiers.    Precisely because the German mind was not a blank slate it could even be allowed a certain initiative.   Instead of the crude counter-chauvinism of Daniel Goldhagen, Koonz presents a process that need not be confined to Germans.  Indeed, we have already seen it among one of Germany's victims, Serbia, and much of the rest of Yugoslavia.  And we may yet see it elsewhere.	2003-11-26
US	52562171	R2GD99VTFIV0M2	0300101600	481007058	The Way and the Word: Science and Medicine in Early China and Greece	Books	3	30	34	N	N	An interesting dichotomy, but underdeveloped and repetitive.	This book has an interesting conceit:  two leading historians of science, one of Ancient Greece, one of Ancient China will examine the sciences of both great civilizations and provide an comparative outlook.  It looks at a period from roughly the fifth century BC to the end of the second century AD.  Nathan Sivin looks at China and Geoffrey Lloyd looks at Greece.  There is a discussion of the social background to science, followed by one of the leading scientific concepts.  The basic contrast between the two can be simply stated.  Chinese scientists lived in a system of patronage, originally to the various warring states, then as bureaucrats to the emperor.  Patronage was capricious, and it was limited, but the result was a society that thoroughly accepted highly conservative and authoritarian attitudes.  Higher education per se did not exist in the way Greek academies did.  Books were slower to develop than in the Greek world.  Learning was based on the understanding and memorization of philosophical classics.  Most striking of all was the way that scholars did not encourage debate; instead there was a firm emphasis on consensus and agreement, and an uncontested idea of serving the great ruler.  The world of Greek scientists was very different:  this was a world of city states, many of which were very democratic.  In the absence of consistent state patronage and vigorous debate, especially in the field of law, Greek scientists engaged in their own constant debates as they competed with each other and sought to demonstrate the truth as they saw it. <br />The results were distinct scientific attitudes.  The Greeks saw the world in causes and in elements, while the Chinese invoked \\"the Way,\\" yin-yang, and the five phases.  The Greeks spent much of their time dealing with the difference between appearance and reality, while the Chinese did not.  Interestingly, the authors note how the Greeks sought to search for mathematical like certainty in other sciences where suchcertainty was not and is not possible.  The Greek emphasis on causality and nature reflects the intensely confrontational nature of the classical world.  Chinese scientific theory emphasized, instead of utility or accuracy, its historical lineage.  In discussing the cosmos some Greek thinkers argued for the independence of key elements, not unlike the way they stressed in the political sphere the \\"independence\\" of the free from the slaves they depended on.  Chinese cosmological discussion, on the other hand, stressed the interdependence of the elements of the cosmos, again like Chinese political theory.  In contrast to some Greek theories of medicine, Chinese theories emphasized not simply monarchical authority over the body, but the body as governed by a harmonious and wise bureaucracy.  <br />Such anyway is the thesis.  What can be said for it?  It seems interesting, and accurate so far as it goes, but it is somewhat repetitive.  The book is written at a high level of abstraction, and this can make reading somewhat difficult.  For a western reader such as myself, it seems hard to imagine that how Chinese science could advance with such a narrow-minded commitment to orthodoxy and a refusal to debate.  But this is not a book that compares the successes of the two sciences.  If you did not know much about the achievements of Chinese science before reading the book, you will know little more after it.  Apparently the Chinese studied astronomy a lot (the state subsidized work on the calendar) and had a complex medical tradition.  But you will not learn anything about Chinese mathematics or zoology or botany or physics.  Indeed, one may read the book and wonder whether Chinese science achieved anything at all.  This is a discussion of science that does not seek to explain what a layman would be most interested in, to wit, how \\"accurate\\" ancient science was.  We know that Euclidean mathematics holds good for ordinary everyday use and that Ptomelian astronomy is fatally flawed, but the authors do not discuss how accurate their Chinese counterparts were.  There appears to have been a larger gap in Chinese society between scientists and inventors.  We know that China has a glorious history of invention, but it is not one that the authors discuss.  All in all, this is an account that only covers the surface, padded out by many repetitions.	2003-11-19
US	52562171	RS0V397SZOJ3S	0060557869	422504949	The Fate of Zionism: A Secular Future for Israel & Palestine	Books	1	16	45	N	N	Adds nothing to the discussion	Giving one star to Arthur Hertzberg's latest meditations on the Israeli-Arab conflict may be a little harsh.  The book does, after all, support a two-state solution and Hertzberg does suggest that the United States should, very tactfully, pressure Israel to evacuate its West Bank settlements.  And the book does start off with Hertzberg attending a 1967 Labour party conference which heard David Ben-Gurion's desperate plea that the conquered territories should be given back-and ignored it.  But this book offers nothing valuable to the discussion.  What it does say is uninformed and disingenuous.  The print is large and the footnotes are few.  Essentially Hertzberg argues that, while a two-state solution would be a good idea, the problem is that the Palestinians will not accept it.  Hertzberg claims that Israel, and moderate liberal Zionists like himself wished to negotiate but were always rebuffed by the Arabs.  I don't agree.  Let's ignore the fact that Sharon has not only arrogated the right to choose which Palestinians he will negotiate with, but also the right to kill them.  Let's leave aside the fact that when Hertzberg quotes a poll saying that two-thirds of Israelis would support a withdrawl of Israeli settlements he ignores the same poll saying that two-thirds of Palestinians would support a Palestine confined to the 1967 conquered areas.  <br />The real problem is that a sincere negotiator seeks a certain limited empathy, or at the very least genuine curiosity about the other side.  One tries to understand the opposing sides' arguments, and if one does not accept them one at least acknowledges their existence and makes an intellectually honest effort to refute them.  There is almost nothing of that in Hertzberg's book.  There is no real discussion of Palestinian society or its culture or its complexities; what we get are a series of threatening personifications.  Hetzberg provides a standard brief liberal account of Israel which simply repeats its side of thestory.  He almost completely ignores the other side of the story on such issues as the British mandate, the willingness of Jews to migrate to Palestine, the nature of the 1948 war, the origins of the Palestinian refugee crisis, post-independence diplomacy or the six-day war.  It is enough simply to list the many scholars whose existence he ignores:  Donald Neff, Avi Shlaim, Norman Finkelstein, Rashdid Khalidi, Janet and Abraham Abu-Lughod, Idith Zertal, Peter Novick, Simha Flapan, Tom Segev..  <br />There are other weaknesses.  At one point Hertzberg attributes to Noam Chomsky opinions today that Chomsky held thirty years ago.  He does not mention the fact that Palestinians make up a large majority of the dead of the second intafada.  Hertzberg does mention such crimes as Deir Yassin and the Sabra and Shatilla massacres, but not the obvious fact that the people responsible or complicit in these and other crimes were not only not punished but won (and still win) high political office.   He rightly supports a secular future for both Israel and Palestine, but his account of it is disingenuous and apologetic.  There is no analysis of Palestinian chiliasm aside from an innate refusal to understand Israel.  As for the problem of Israeli sectarianism Hertzberg suggests that after the 1967 war some Israelis adapted messianic beliefs and unhelpfully encouraged the settlers.  He does not discuss the special privileges granted by the state to Orthodoxy, notwithstanding the fact that it represents only a minority of world Jewry, or the refusal to allow civil marriage.   We see clichs such as the argument that there are so many countries worse than Israel.   True, but we heard these arguments in the eighties when the Soviet Union and apartheid South Africa were still around.  True, but Americans would not glibly tolerate Denmark or Costa Rica carrying out similar brutalities.   True, but American aid supports Israel as it does not in Burma or Syria or North Korea.  True, butthe Syrian government does not come to my synagogue to solicit money from me.  It is embarrassing that a rabbi should be so complacent.  But then many American liberals believe that the best way to encourage liberalism among the Palestinians is to keep them under semi-permanent house arrest.	2003-11-17
US	52562171	R2CFJEV56OO8YZ	0385264259	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus: The Roots of the Problem and the Person, Vol. 1	Books	5	159	163	N	N	The Fascinating Truth	John Meier's \\"A Marginal Jew\\" is the leading study of the historical Jesus of our time.  Notwithstanding three sizeable volumes the work is still incomplete, but this reputation is clearly well-deserved.   The first volume only deals with the basic contours of his life, but it is the most intelligent discussion of these questions available.  Meier, a Catholic priest, reminds us that the historical Jesus is not the real Jesus.  For a start we have a radical shortage of information of information about all but a few people in classical times, and Jesus is not one of those lucky few.  What he has presented is what a spectrum of theologians and historians would conclude about Jesus if they were forced to provide a basic consensus.  <br />So Meier starts with the sources for Jesus' life, which basically consists of the Gospels.  There is a long, thorough discussion of the reference to Jesus in Josephus, from which Meier agrees with most scholars is mostly genuine, with several obvious Christian interpolations.  He then discusses other sources, which reveal a very meagre crop.  There is Tacitus' reference to Christians, nothing of value in the Talmud, as well as a thorough deflation of the Coptic Gospel of Thomas.  Thomas consists of sayings, many of which resemble those in the Gospels.  But Thomas' sayings are simpler, and many have concluded that they are more primitive and therefore earlier than the canonical gospels.   Meier disagrees.  He points that one reason Thomas' order of sayings does not resemble the synoptic gospels is because many of them were remembered orally, not because they proceeded them.  He also points out one reason Thomas' sayings appear simpler is because the Gnostic concerns of the author/editor has pared away those elements of the original Gospel saying that were too clear or too eschatological for the author's taste.  We then get a discussion of the criteria for deciding what comes from Jesus; embarrassment, discontinuity, multiple attestationand providing a motive for Jesus' execution.<br />We then turn to Jesus' actual life himself.  We start off with a discussion of his name, and then we have a discussion of the infancy narratives.  Notwithstanding the fact that Meier is a Catholic priest, by the time he is finished there is not much left of them, or the doctrine of Jesus' virginal conception.  The narratives are inaccurate about precisely those childbirth rituals that Mary, the presumed source, would have to know.  Both Matthew and Luke use questionable historical elements (the Massacre of the Innocents in Matthew, unattested to by any other source, the census in Luke that could not have happened at the time Luke gives) and give clearly different routes of Joseph and Mary to and from Nazareth and Bethlehem.  Even more disconcerting is Meier's later discussion of Jesus' siblings, of which there were at least four brothers and two sisters.  For centuries Catholics, seeking to preserve both the eternal virginity of Joseph and Mary, have sought to argue that the references in the gospels to brothers are really to his cousins.  This is based on the idea that Hebrew does not distinguish between the two terms.  Of course the gospels were written in Greek, which does distinguish the two.   Nor were the authors of the New Testament woodenly translating Jesus' Aramaic into Greek.   After all Paul refers to brother(s) of the Lord in both Galatians and Corinthians, where he is writing originally in Greek.  Josephus refers to James the brother of Jesus, even though he could and did distinguished between brother and cousin.   Moreover statements by Jesus such as \\"Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother,\\" (Matt 12:50) lose their force if the term for sibling is replaced by cousin.  The safest assumption is that Jesus' siblings were Mary's children.  (It has been argued that they were actually her stepchildren, being Joseph's from a previous marriage.  Elsewhere Meier has written while this is not impossible, it is not supported by the gospels--where there is no clear use of the term \\"stepbrother\\"--and it is based on a late source, the second century Protoevangelium of James which is patently inaccurate about many Jewish rituals.  What is gratuitously asserted can be gratuitously denied.)<br />Was Jesus illegitimate, as some scholars have speculated?  No, the simplest explanation for references to Jesus as \\"Mary's son,\\" was because the speaker wished to assert Jesus' ordinariness by referring to his ordinary parents.  Mary was right near by and Joseph was presumably already dead.  Was he married?  No again, since while it was unusual, it was not unprecedented, as we can see from the examples of Jeremiah, the Essenes and John the Baptist.  What language did Jesus speak?  Almost certainly Aramaic, says Meier.  If a cosmopolitan author like Josephus had trouble with Greek, it is not likely that the Greek of a marginal villager like Jesus was likely to be any better.  Archaeological evidence has confirmed this sceptical attitude towards mass hellenization, as helpfully summarized in James Dunn's \\"Jesus Remembered.\\"  Jesus was probably literate and he was probably a layman.  When did Jesus die?  Most likely on April 7, 30 CE.  He was executed on the eve of Passover.  Meier is thorough on all matters but he is especially illuminating on why John, the most mystical Gospel is more accurate on this point than the synoptics.  For they claim Jesus was executed on Passover.  The answer is that the passage on Mark is a later addition, which we can see by comparison with the surrounding passage, and which Luke and Matthew unfortunately copied.  Such is the conclusion to Meier's first volume, the beginning of a most scrupulous, scholarly and well-read journey indeed.	2003-11-13
US	52562171	R1PAK797XJUB06	0393048969	516484177	Nixon's Shadow: The History of an Image	Books	3	14	30	N	N	Wishy Washy	Did you know that Richard Nixon was a controversial figure?  And that there are a large range of opinions about them?  And that these views often reflect the biases of the people who hold them?  You didn't?  Well then \\"Nixon's Shadow,\\" is just the book for you.  Historian David Greenberg, writer for such journals as Slate and The Washington Monthly looks at Nixon's image starting with his own conservative populist image.  Then he looks at the images presented by his liberal critics, New Left Radicals, Washington journalists, his supporters, psychoanalysts, the foreign policy establishment and those historians who present him as the last liberal president.  The result is somewhat repetitive:  each of the images has something useful to say but it also has its flaws and doesn't show the whole picture.  The New Left Radicals and the Nixon loyalists probably come off the least well, while Greenberg is, somewhat surprisingly, unconvinced about the glories of Nixon's foreign policy.  On the whole Greenberg's work shows the qualities that make neo-liberal journals the success they are today.  There are interesting anecdotes and the occasional intelligent point, but there is also a willingness to agree with a conservative consensus and a refusal to show too much enthusiasm or indignation about anything.<br />So it is interesting to read that yes, most liberals supported Nixon on the Alger Hiss case and no, journalists were not out to get Nixon, (they even covered his mawkish, self-pitying resignation speech with undeserved respect).  It is amusing to find that Karl Rove started his career as a college student opposing impeachment, or to have Theodore White's relationship with Nixon compared to the Taylor-Burton marriage or to hear the Nixon Presidential Library falsely claim that Woodward and Bernstein bribed sources.  But considering how strange, not to mention bizarre, Nixon's life was this is a surprisingly bland book.  Consider Nixon and the psychiatrists.  On the one hand Greenberg is, reasonably enough, sceptical about psychoanalysts who tried to explicate his personality without actually having met him.  On the other hand there is the clear evidence, as expressed by Nixon's lawyer, his son-in-law and his Secretary of State, that Nixon was unstable in the last days of his presidency.  But on the other other hand isn't much of this discussion irresponsible speculation?  And so Greenberg runs all this together without making it clear what the state of Nixon's mental health actually was.  And this inconclusiveness runs through the book.<br />Then there are Greenberg's own neo-liberal prejudices.  He criticizes both New Leftists and Nixon Loyalists for \\"conspiracy theories.\\"  But Watergate was a criminal conspiracy, so criticizing other versions of it as conspiracy mongering rather dramatically misses the point.  Moreover Greenberg's own labelling serves as a substitute for definitive refutation.  At one point Greenberg criticizes a psychiatrist who criticized Nixon's commutation of William Calley, the lieutenant responsible for the My Lai massacre.  Rather blandly Greenberg comments that it was not unreasonable for Nixon to see Calley as a scapegoat, since Calley's superiors evaded judgement.  But if Nixon was interested in seeing justice done he could very easily, as Commander in Chief of the army, make sure that the responsible parties were punished.  But of course he had no such interest and indeed showed more outrage at the journalists who discovered the truth.   Greenberg also gives some credit to the idea of Nixon as liberal.  Yet he does not point out that after his presidency Nixon did nothing to support his \\"liberal legacy\\" on healthcare, race, the arts and the environment.  Naturally, as a neo-liberal, Greenberg must criticize his liberal predecessors.  He criticizes them for elitism, as if their distaste for Nixon was just concealed snobbery.  To do this he must conflate the Democratic Party, the minority of liberal journalists and the many ex-Marxist intellectuals.  Only the last group could be described, not entirely fairly, as elitist.  A more perceptive author would point out that one reason why \\"populism\\" seemed to migrate to the right after the Second World War was because anti-communist liberal intellectuals so despised the Popular Front they reacted against any populist tone.  A more perceptive author would point out that anti-communist demagoguery sought to discredit any populism except its own, and a more perceptive author would note that William Buckley, Russell Kirk and Leo Strauss had more than their share of elitism as well.  <br />Much of the book is dominated by received opinion.  It is striking that Greenberg dismisses Seymour Hersh as a journalist, doesn't even mention William Shawcross, but is most convinced that Nixon's foreign policy was flawed because in 1998 foreign policy mandarin William Bundy wrote a book saying so.  It is striking he includes only one cartoon each from Feiffer, Herblock and Conrad (and no Oliphant).   On the one hand the book is muted, with details about Nixon's bigotry, his sophomoric understand of culture, his drunkenness and his vanity generally played down.  On the other hand the variety of images encourages a false complexity around him.  So it is important to remember the vital truth.  Nixon was a crook.  He did not have friends, only cronies and sycophants.  He confused nobility with pomposity and courage with bullying.  He was a vain, envious, self-pitying, intellectually lazy man who lusted for power without any pressing desire to do anything with it.  What he did in and about Vietnam, Cambodia, Bangladesh, Greece, Chile and much of the rest of the world was not only cruel, not only contemptible, but actually evil.  Greenberg's book is an interesting tour of a house of mirrors, but there is no reason why we should let ourselves get lost in it because Greenberg has confused that with intellectual nuance.	2003-10-30
US	52562171	RF1QZSXA8Y4T5	0297819658	775583400	Mussolini: A New Life	Books	1	39	77	N	N	1.3 Stars, a mediocre defense of mediocre evil	You can tell you are not reading a serious book when the author compares Mussolini to Tony Blair in the introduction.  Unlike the biographies of Denis Mack Smith and Richard Bosworth,  Daily Telegraph journalist Nicholas Farrell uses little primary or archival evidence.  Instead he relies largely on the conservative biographer Renzo De Felice and likeminded people.  He is not exhaustive on any subject, so that he writes about women while ignoring Victoria De Grazia, or Pius XII's attitude to the Holocaust without reading Susan Zuccotti, or about postwar treatment of fascists with no mention of Roy Palmer Domenico.   The result is a book that argues that Mussolini was a more thoughtful, productive and \\"modern\\" man with a reasonable level of achievement before he unfortunately entered World War Two on Hitler's side.  Like many conservative interpreters of Mussolini he applauds and encourages his attacks on socialists and liberals.  Also like them he argues that Mussolini was \\"really\\" a man of the left, a man who opposed the \\"bourgeoisie\\".  <br />This is unconvincing.   Arguing for Mussolini's \\"radicalism\\" means taking seriously Mussolini's incredibly cynical and opportunist posturings as a scheme of serious thought, and this cannot survive a reading of Mack Smith.  Farrell himself admits that Mussolini criticized the \\"bourgeois\\" but praised the \\"entrepreneur,\\" a distinction without a difference, that he opposed \\"bourgeois\\" golf but played tennis instead.    Reading his work in parallel with Bosworth, Mack Smith, or with Macgregor Knox or Adrian Lyttleton is a peculiar experience.  Over and over again in the latter works we see damning details, which Farrell does not so much refute as ignore.  Since people can easily contact the other books one wonders why he bothered.  Consider his treatment of Mussolini's war leadership.  Obviously a disaster, Farrell over and over again implies this was the fault of the military leadership.  This won't work for the obvious reason that Mussolini, having ruled Italy for the previous 18 years, was directly responsible for having a poorly led, badly equipped army.  It won't work because war was not something forced on Mussolini, but freely chosen.  And it won't work because over and over again Mussolini made stupid and ill thought decisions of his own that made the war worse.  It was Mussolini's fault that Italian troops were dispersed on half a dozen fronts.  It was Mussolini's fault that half the army was demobilized just before the invasion of Greece, that the Ministry of War offices still closed for lunchtime in the fall of 1940, and that the bourgeois university students were exempted from the draft.  Farrell suggests that it was the accidental death of Italo Balbo that prevented a successful offensive against Egypt in 1940.  But there was a genuine lack of equipment in 1940 Libya. It was also Mussolini who refused German aid in 1940 when it might have helped, who tried to abort one of Rommel's successful offensives and then tried to take credit for it when it succeeded.  One could go on.  Farrell doesn't even start.  <br />Elsewhere Farrell states that Fascists only opposed parliamentary democracy when it didn't work, as if their own behaviour had not done so much to kill it.    Likewise he argues that fascist militarism did not love war for its own sake but simply encouraged a natural sense of self-defence against external attack.  Who, in 1929, was planning to attack Italy?  Mussolini's fall in July 1943 is presented as a \\"betrayal,\\" although it did not violate the Fascist party's own rules, the Italian constitution or the will of the Italian people.  The refusal of Italians to assist the Holocaust before September 1943 is presented as a sign of Mussolini's virtue, while the Republic of Salo's involvement is barely mentioned.  Farrell doesn't have much to say about Salo, except to suggest that Mussolini was serving as a shield against the Germans.  This old argument wasn't true when Petainused it, and at least he never freely entered an alliance with Hitler.  It ignores Mussolini's desire to execute naval officers who obeyed the king's orders, as they were obliged to do, and his cowardice in allowing his son-in-law to be murdered.  Much of the book really wishes to settle scores with the left.  The murdered Matteotti is described as \\"fanatical.\\"  We hear about Loyalist atrocities in the Spanish civil war, but nothing of the Nationalists', (including Mussolini's order to murder prisoners of war).  The Resistance is accused of murdering 35,000 fascists in the course of liberation, when it was more like 12,000.   \\"The chattering classes\\" of Italy are sneered at because they demurred at one historian's memoirs of how he fought for Salo.  Why shouldn't one by angry with someone who fought for Hitler and against their country?  The British are blamed not only for not supporting Mussolini's brutal conquest of Ethiopia, but also for not offering French Tunisia!  Farrell offers no new evidence about overwhelming popular support for Mussolini.  He likes to quote Indro Montanelli, the most respected post-war conservative journalist.  He does not tell us that Montanelli in 1936 praised the Italian army for its racial disdain for conquered Ethiopians, or that in 1942 he praised the blood-soaked Croatian psychopath Pavelic.  But he does quote a passage in which Montanelli blames the Italian war effort not on Mussolini, or Italy's selfish elite, but on the moral failings of the Italian people.  One cannot help but think that the blame has been misplaced, by Montanelli, by Farrell, and by all who seek to euphemize Mussolini's crimes.	2003-10-29
US	52562171	R16T4LGISXU4Y9	0684859750	682557686	A Fierce Discontent : The Rise and Fall of the Progressive Movement in America, 1870-1920	Books	3	94	112	N	N	Ultimately unsatisfying, 2.5 Stars	\\"Progressivism\\" is one of the vaguer words in the history of American politics, and we could always do with a new attempt to define it.  And Michael McGerr's new book starts out promisingly.  There is an apparently detailed description of the very rich, workers and farmers which appears to be based on the latest research.  The book is supported with sixty pages of notes, though there are no archival sources, and the primary sources are mostly from the usual suspects (Wilson, Roosevelt, Jane Addams, plus a few memoirs from Hamlin Garland and Rahel Golub.)  McGerr continues with a discussion of the middle class, and how concern over increasing class conflict and social instability encouraged them to support a Progressive philosophy-one that encouraged a sense of association instead of the old individualism, as well as a strong Protestant moralism that valued duty and discouraged pleasure.  He then looks at how Progressives sought to change Americans, such as by encouraging school attendance, supporting prohibition, attacking divorce and improving country life.  There then follow chapters on limiting class conflict, regulating big business, and imposing segregation.  However, Progressivism does meet its nemesis.  The rise of the automobile and modern transportation, the rise of popular amusements and jazz, and a more liberal attitude towards sexuality threatens Progressivism's stern ethic.  The attempts to encourage government regulation in the First World War only undercut support for it, leading to the disastrous electoral defeat of 1920.  In the end, McGerr concludes, this reinforces the \\"basic lesson\\" that \\"reformers should not try too much.\\"  <br />Unfortunately on closer examination one sees that McGerr has produced a superficial book.  It's not just that looking at the endnotes one finds that most of the book could have been written a decade earlier with little loss, with some chapters printed two or three decades earlier.  It's not just that the chapters on labor and business are not especially original.  There are larger problems with causation and logic.  One of the things researchers in the seventies and eighties noted about Progressivism was its variety.  It had supporters in all regions, it appealed to workers and farmers as well as the middle class, it appealed to immigrant Catholics, Protestant moralists, and secular intellectuals.  Progressives could be in both parties, and included racist imperialists and the most humane socialists.  Instead of dealing with this variety, McGerr limits it to the middle class, since none of the other groups \\"advocated the full range of progressive positions as consistently as the middle class did.\\"  The problem is that the same middle class made up the overwhelming majority of politicians in the unProgressive Gilded Age, as well as the overwhelming majority of politicians in the age of Harding and Hoover.  In the fifties Richard Hofstadter introduced the idea of \\"status anxiety.\\"  This idea was a flawed one, but at least it tried to explain why some of the middle class supported Progressivism and others didn't.  McGerr never does so.  <br />There are other gaps.  There is no discussion of Progressivism in a comparative context, so we do not learn how successful they were in comparison with their European contexts  (This is especially true of their view of the state).  Much discussion of Progressivism asks about its connection with modernity.  Was the Progressive endorsement of such things as prohibition and racial segregation a sign of its reactionary character?  Or did such measures show how \\"modern\\" apparently reactionary people as prohibitionists and racists were?  And if so, what does that say about modernity as a whole?  McGerr does nothing to answer this question.  There is no discussion of foreign policy before the First World War, no real discussion of why the United States entered the war, and little discussion of its postwar plans.   This complicates the whole idea of a Progressive break with its predecessors and successors.  There are obvious continuities with McKinley and Roosevelt, and scholars such as William A. Williams and Frank Costigliola have pointed out that the twenties was not an era of simple minded isolationism.<br />There are problems with McGerr's emphasis on pleasure as the solvent of Progressivism.  There is an emphasis on increasing sexuality, but there are no facts about illegitimacy, pre-marital sex, prostitution or abortion.  Moreover, far from dying in 1920, the twenties marked the triumph of Prohibition, and it was still an electoral winner for Herbert Hoover in 1928.  Not did Protestant Hegemony go away either.  At other points McGerr takes his sources' complaints at face value, whether about Progressive distaste for the vulgarly wealthy or Republican complaints about the First World War.  It is not clear why regulation of the economy should be so fatal to the Democrats, when conservatives accepted a version of it in Britain and France and won the post-war elections.  And to say that Progressives shouldn't have tried too hard simply reflects journalistic cant and its willingness to split the differences between the two sides, as well as its easy contempt for people with more principle.  One could ask industrial workers denied a union, immigrants and African-Americans living with the GOP's enormous condescension, or Sacco and Vanzetti whether Republican domination was simply part of the natural balance of things. Ultimately this is a book that is less than it appears.  In such works scholars tend to summon up amusing anecdotes as a substitute for analysis.  But McGerr is no Orlando Figes or Simon Schama.  The most memorable story concerns the fact that J.P. Morgan, when he didn't like the tune of the hymn being played, would ostentatiously jingle the coins in his pocket.  Those crazy rich people.	2003-10-22
US	52562171	RJ8YGTM1HSKY9	0802839312	524139356	Jesus Remembered: Christianity in the Making, Volume 1	Books	4	145	182	N	N	3.5 stars, fascinating, infuriating	James Dunn's massively documented \\"Jesus Remembered\\" is the first of a planned trilogy on the first 120 years of Christianity.  He starts off with of his discussion of the Jesus tradition, and what we can know about the historical Jesus.  After his discussion of the past two centuries of Jesus research Dunn gets down to his new approach to the question.  Much of the study of the historical Jesus has dealt with texts; Mark, Q, Matthew and Luke and their own unique sources.  Dunn argues that the differences between these sources cannot simply be viewed as theological redactions.  Instead they often relied on oral tradition.  Dunn has looked at how oral traditions develop and notices that while stories passed orally often change in details (\\"performance variations\\") the essential core of the story often remains unchanged for a long time.  Although Dunn says several times that the best we can hope for is what Jesus' followers remembered about him, he often believes that if a tradition fits his oral history paradigm given above it is most likely to have originated with Jesus himself.<br />So what does Dunn conclude from his approach?  First off, Dunn himself is a Christian and on page 879 affirms the resurrection.  So it is important to point out how much of Christian belief Dunn has to leave by the wayside.  The Gospel of  John's narrative is not reliable, nor the claims it makes for his quasi-divine status. There is little to support the infancy narratives.  There is little evidence that Jesus supported a mission to the gentiles.   Contrary to the gospels, there is no evidence that Jesus saw himself as any kind of messiah.  (The term does not even appear in Q.)  Nor is there much left of the \\"Son of Man,\\" except for a few uncertain eschatological allusions.  Indeed, Dunn argues, Jesus did not claim any title for himself.  Jesus may have believed that he was going to die, but he did not believe he was dying to redeem the sins of the world.  \\"If Jesus hoped for resurrection it was presumably to share in the general and final resurrection of the dead.\\"  There is astonishingly little support for what Jesus' last words were.  At the same time, Dunn is sceptical of the historical value of the Gospel of Thomas and his frequent comparisons with the synoptic materials strongly suggest that it followed, not preceded them.  Dunn is also properly sceptical of the Kloppenborgs' belief that one can separate Q into convenient layers.  There is an especially good section that shows that the Hellenistic background of first century Galilee has been much exaggerated.  There is little evidence that Sepphoris had many gentiles and plenty of evidence of the four indication of Jewish religious identity (stone vessels, absence of pork remains, Jewish burial customs and Jewish bathing customs).  <br />There are problems with Dunn's oral tradition model.  As one proceeds one wonders whether such incidents as contradictory traditions about Capernaum, the parable of the wicked tenants, Jesus' quarrels with Pharisees over eating grain on the Sabbath, the triumphant entry into Jerusalem or the claim that Jesus spoke of destroying the temple really do go back to Jesus.   The possibility of a parti pris, on both the gospel authors and of Dunn himself, has to be considered.  Looking back at Dunn's model of an oral tradition one notes a flawed analogy.  Dunn gave an example of an Arabian peasant village, where once the community agreed on a story they stick to it.  But the early Christian community were not (simply) isolated peasants.  They were actively trying to convert their fellow countrymen, and ultimately with little success.  In other words, unlike the Arab villagers, their story faced constant challenge from non-believers and this had to affect its development.<br />There are other weaknesses.  There is a certain squirming as Dunn admits that Jesus believed in an imminent eschatological climax that, of course, did not happen.  \\"Putting it bluntly, Jesus was proved wrong by the course of events.\\"  Then he goes on for four pages trying to argue that we shouldn't be too concerned about his.  This is not so much a \\"consistent eschatology\\" or a \\"realized eschatology\\" as a neutered eschatology.  Dunn's account of the resurrection is better in discussing the weaknesses of Christian tradition that in defending them.  He argues that Jewish traditions agree on an empty tomb, without pointing out that such traditions were composed centuries afterwards, were clearly a response to the gospels, and have no independent value in themselves.  Dunn also argues that the fact that Jesus' tomb was not venerated is proof that the Christians knew it was empty.  But this is not convincing.  Aside from the fact that there is some evidence of veneration, if Christians could honor the cross Jesus died on, they could venerate the place he was resurrected.  Unless, of course, they didn't know where he was buried.  Trying to argue that Jesus received a proper burial, Dunn notes that there is an example of a crucified body receiving proper burial, but forgets to add that it is the only such body found in all of Palestine.  On the other hand Dunn notes all of the weaknesses of the tradition:  the link of Jesus' resurrection to a falsely imminent general resurrection, confusion as to what sort of Jesus the witnesses were seeing, a persistent theme of failure of the witnesses to recognize Jesus (in Matthew 28:17 the disciples are seeing him in Galilee yet \\"some doubted,\\" not just Thomas), confusion as to where they were seeing Jesus (in Jerusalem and Galilee? On earth or in heaven?)   But on the whole the research is thorough, the bibliography voluminous and there is much in this book that will provoke and stimulate the reader.  This is a book one should take the trouble to read.	2003-10-09
US	52562171	R1NVZUEQIDGZKW	0195141830	600036030	The Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and the Faiths We Never Knew	Books	4	682	743	N	N	The mysteries of Christian variety, 3.5 stars	This is fundamentally a popular treatment of the topic that doesn't tell us that much new about the subject.  But it is not a bad introduction.  Indeed, if you are not aware that the Christian New Testament was not agreed upon until more than three centuries after the death of Jesus, that there is a whole host of other \\"Christian\\" literature some of which has as good (or bad) a claim to holy inspiration as the canon, that there were a whole host of Christian sects which radically deviated from the eventual orthodoxy, that in many areas these Christian sects were the original representatives of Christianity, and that what we now know to be Orthodoxy won its battles by, among other things, altering the text of holy scripture, then you should read this book.<br />Ehrman's book is divided into three parts.  The first looks at four Christian works that failed to enter the New Testament.  Ehrman first looks at the remainder of \\"The Gospel of Peter,\\" which survives to this day as an account of the crucifixion.  Interestingly, Ehrman suggests we have about as many copies and references to it from this time as we do with the Gospel of Mark.  We also learn about \\"the Apocalypse of Peter,\\" which gives a guided tour of hell (women who braided their hair are especially miserable.)  Ehrman then discusses the Acts of Thecla, a supposed apostle of Paul.  We then get a discussion of the Gospel of Thomas, a collection of supposed sayings of Jesus.  Some scholars believe that the Gospel of Thomas may go back to the mid-first century, but Ehrman is rather sceptical.  Then we look at the Secret Gospel of Mark.   According to leading Biblical scholar Morton Smith there is a seventeenth/eighteenth century copy of a letter of Clement of Alexandria (2nd century) which quotes from the supposed secret gospel.  It tells of Jesus raising a man from the dead, and then insinuates a homosexual encounter between the two.  Unfortunately, we have only photographs Smith took of the letter, and no-onehas been able to find it in the Israeli monastery where Smith supposedly discovered it.  Indeed, we cannot rule out the idea that Smith forged the letter himself.<br />Ehrman then discusses the many groups whom emerging proto-orthodoxy eventually condemned as heretics.  There were the Ebionites, who saw Christianity as part of Judaism, and viewed Jesus as fully human.  There were the Marcionites, after their founder Marcion who viewed the God of the Old Testament as fundamentally flawed, and viewed Jesus as an emissary from the true God who would liberate humanity.  They were the producers of the first Christian canon:  ten Pauline epistles and an edited Gospel of Luke.  Then there are Gnostics who promoted a variety of views about Jesus, usually denying his humanity.  Some, the Docetists, thought that Jesus's suffering was illusory since the real Jesus did not have a real body.  Others, known as Adaptionists, thought that Jesus was only adapted to receive the power of the Christ at the time of his baptism, and that it left him on the cross.  Ehrman provides interesting reasons why these groups were not successful.  Ebionites were too Jewish, the Gnostics were too spiritually elitist, while Marcion's religion was too new to fit the conservative religious prejudices of the day.  We also learn that one of the pillars of Orthodoxy had to become an antipope, because the properly elected pope believed in \\"heresy\\":  the idea that Jesus was not God the son, but God altogether.  The majority of the Roman church had come to this view because they believed a) Jesus was God and b) there is clearly only one God in the Bible.  The antipope Hippolytus argued correctly that Jesus and God are clearly two separate people in the New Testament, and then argued, not so correctly, that Jesus must therefore be divine in a separate sense from his father.<br />Ehrman then discusses Orthodoxy's response.  By the third century there was consensus about most of the books of the New Testament,though there were heated debates over books such as Hebrews, James, 2 Peter, and the Apocalypse of John.  Opponents correctly realized that the apostles did not write these books.  (Over the past two centuries scholars would realize that seven Pauline letters are the only books in the New Testament correctly attributed to their author.)  We read about the Epistle of Barnabas, an early Christian letter that almost made it into the Bible.  It would have been extremely embarrassing had it done so, since it claims that weasels conceive through their mouths, that hyenas change their sex every year, and that rabbits grow a new orifice every year.  The most interesting part is Ehrman's discussion of the corruption of the New Testament text.  We know that \\"heretics\\" altered biblical texts.  The Ebionites changed a couple of letters and turned John the Baptist into a vegetarian.  Ehrman also discusses Orthodox \\"corrections.\\"  We know about some of them because enough alternate texts survive to see the manipulation.  For example the Proto-Orthodox altered passages in Luke where Mary refers to Joseph as Jesus' father.  Other Christians tried to alter Jesus' final statements in Mark (\\"why have you forsaken me,\\") because it fit too well with the adoptionist heresy mentioned above.  But other manipulations are harder to track.  It appears that Luke's reference to Jesus \\"sweating blood\\" may have been an addition to counter Docetist beliefs.  While the addition of \\"by the Grace of God,\\" to a passage in Hebrews may have countered another heresy.  As we do not have the original texts, we cannot tell how much of the New Testament was altered to fit the desires of Orthodoxy.	2003-10-02
US	52562171	R4G8YR8FE0GJV	0226067114	578507609	Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality: Gay People in Western Europe from the Beginning of the Christian Era to the Fourteenth Century	Books	3	110	144	N	N	A bold, but flawed, pioneering work	It's been more than twenty years since John Boswell's pioneering work on the history of homosexuality first appeared.  Boswell argues that originally homosexuality was tolerated and admired in the urban world of the Roman Empire.  Contrary to what one may think it was not Christianity per se that reduced this tolerance.  In fact, one cannot show that the New Testament was hostile to homosexuality at all.  Instead there was a certain decline of tolerance as the urban civilization of Rome collapsed.  Yet for much of what we know as the Dark Ages homosexuality was viewed as at most a venial sin, and legal prohibitions against it were limited and ineffective.  Indeed as urban civilization recovered by the eleventh and twelfth centuries a flourishing gay subculture arose, celebrating homosexual love.  But over the next few centuries as powerful states seeking to enforce their authority arose, new anti-sodomy laws appeared, demanding death for its violators. <br />There is much in this book that is interesting and informative, and certainly there was no other work like it at the time.  We learn about the weaknesses of much of the \\"natural law\\" case against homosexuality.  Homosexuality is supposedly unnatural because animals do not do it.  But anti-homosexuals also argue that homosexuality is wrong because vile animals like hyenas commit it.  Of course, there is considerable evidence of homosexual behaviour among animals.  And many undesirable traits, such as incest, are endemic among animals.  And why should animals be the criterion of what is natural anyway?  Anyway, much of the argument on what is perverted sex was based on considerable ignorance of the animal world, such as the false belief that hyenas were hermaphrodites or that oral sex is wrong because weasels conceive through their mouths.  The same Christians who denounced homosexuality also vigorously denounced \\"Lending at interest, sexual intercourse during the menstrual period, jewellery or dyed fabrics, shaving, regular bathing, wearing wigs,\\" and much else.   In the eighth century the penance given for a priest who went hunting was allotted at three years, while some homosexual acts only got a year.  We are given many samples of homosexual poetry, many of them written by high ranking clergymen, the more tactful of whom were canonized. <br />Yet this book has a number of major weaknesses that make Boswell much inferior to such other pioneering works of social history as The Making of the English Working Class or Roll Jordan Roll.  His distinction between a more tolerant \\"urban\\" and a more intolerant \\"rural\\" is hopelessly vague.  Not all \\"rural\\" societies disliked homosexuals.  Moreover, the Roman Empire was overwhelmingly rural anyway, more than 90%, with land being the overwhelming source of wealth.  To make things more confusing Boswell suggests that the thirteenth century turn had more to do with increasing state authority (also present in the Roman Empire) and increasing xenophobia as part of the crusades (also present during the Roman Empire, and for the twelfth century as well).  Boswell displays a certain tendentiousness throughout the book.  At one point Boswell suggests that there was less prejudice against the \\"passive\\" position in the Roman Empire because certain emperors indulged in it.  But since the emperors in question were Caligula and Nero, one suspects that they were not good examples (Boswell also cites Nero as an example of homosexual marriage).  Much of the book depends on the argument from silence, a questionable procedure when most Classical evidence has been lost to us. <br />But the largest problem with the book is Boswell's discussion of scripture.  Boswell was both a homosexual and a Catholic and wanted to find a way to reconcile them.  He was not successful.  His chapter starts out well by pointing out that the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah is less about the evils of homosexuality than of abusing strangers.  But then Boswell has to deal with the discussion of homosexuality in Leviticus, which pronounces it an abomination and demands the death penalty.  Boswell argues that since Paul denounced the law Christians need no longer be bound by it.  This is clearly tendentious.  2 Timothy refers to the divine inspiration of scripture and the Sermon on the Mount explicitly says that the Law remains in full force until the end.  Moreover, Leviticus and Deuteronomy contain moral rules against bestiality, incest and child sacrifice that are still in force.  It is revealing that Boswell does not discuss at all the problem of antinomianism or the role of Leviticus and Deuteronomy in Christians thought.  If one is a Christian it would be most logical to argue that the law is still in force except (a) where the New Testament explicitly challenges it, (b) when it deals with matters that are now irrelevant (sacrifice ritual), or (c) when it deals with specifically Jewish matters.  Boswell also tries to argue that Paul is criticizing not homosexuals but male heterosexuals who betray their nature by indulging in homosexuality.  This makes the questionable assumption that people in the first century CE reified people by the sexual acts they committed.  Why would Jews like Jesus and Paul, who are so unenthusiastic about marriage, extend to their followers a whole new realm of fornication?  Boswell weakly suggests that because heterosexuals produce children who were commonly abandoned and abused, while homosexuals didn't, Christians viewed homosexuality as a lesser problem.  But this is mere suggestion; he gives no evidence of such a well developed moral concern in the book.  It is not surprising therefore then that scholars such as Robin Lane Fox, Ramsay Macmullen, and David Wright have been critical of Boswell's thesis.	2003-09-29
US	52562171	R2VM25GMPQQ0VV	0807854336	921672939	Behind the Backlash: White Working-Class Politics in Baltimore, 1940-1980	Books	2	25	34	N	N	Disingenuous	At the conclusion of his monograph of why white working-class Baltimoreans abandoned the party of the New Deal, Kenneth Durr comments \\"We should neither vilify the lawmakers, philosophers, and clergy who helped bring about social change nor the white working people who had the furthest to go in adjusting to it.\\"  Fair enough one would think, but this is just a last disingenuous comment on a book that has been consistently evasive.  For throughout his book Durr has continually damned liberals as intellectual elitists who ignore the wisdom of the (white) common people.  Building on the work of such persons as Jonathan Rieder, Thomas Edsall and Jim Sleeper, Durr argues that problems developed in the fifties over white resistance to integration.  Although angry working class whites used a racist vocabulary and were often admittedly racist, Durr argues that they had real concerns over blockbusting that elitist liberals didn't deal with.  As the sixties and seventies wore on, working-class whites became increasingly and justifiably annoyed over liberal perfidy over school prayer, crime, the Vietnam War, student unrest and affirmative action.  They had moved beyond racism, but elitist liberals were too cowardly to recognize their legitimate concerns.  What's wrong with this picture?  A comparison with Thomas Sugrue's Bancroft Prize winning \\"The Origins of the Urban Crisis\\" reveals no shortage of problems.  For a start, although Durr lists nearly two pages of archival sources, his work relies less on what working-class whites said than what they are quoted in major newspapers.  Similarly, all of his working-class white subjects tend to sound alike, tend to think alike and tend to sound like Durr.  This is in striking contrast to Sugure.  Added to this is the fact that Durr often refers to \\"Baltimoreans\\" and \\"blue collar Baltimoreans,\\" when he is clearly referring to whites only.  Most striking of all this is a story about racial conflict in which we only really hear one side of the story.  Durr admits that there was often discrimination against blacks, but he does not go nearly into the extent or depth that Sugrue did.  On questions such as education or housing Durr looks only at the sacrifices working-class whites have to make and pays no real attention to the gross injustices black Baltimoreans had to face.  <br />This leads to the whole question of racism.  It is all well and good to say that there was more to white protest than racism, but that is not the same as saying that white protest was just, reasonable or in good faith.  Durr argues that whites were legitimately concerned about blockbusting and property values.  But he concedes that they did not protest realtors or demand reform of the housing market.  Instead they protested when black students entered schools or swimming pools or dancehalls.  Durr quotes, and apparently agrees with, those Baltimoreans who thought that there was no moral difference between common criminals and people who used civil disobedience against segregated parks.   Anti-war protestors break a few windows in Baltimore and Durr's subjects are appalled.  Millions of people die in a pointless, unjust war, but their sensitivities don't matter.  Of course Durr's story of urban decline does not include such factors as selfish urban machines or gross favoritism for the suburbs, which encouraged crime, poverty and a fiscal crisis that would be difficult for anyone to solve.  It also does not include pollution, Republican campaigns against unions or redistribution of income to the very wealthiest.  Johnson's Great Society programs and its many \\"middle-class\\" beneficiaries get only a grudging mention here.  But let us suppose that Durr is right and that support for Wallace and Agnew did not reflect racist malevolence towards blacks.  What then was the blue-collar white attitude towards African-Americans who, by the end of Durr's study, make up the majority of Baltimore?  We don't know.  Two to three centuries of malice just vanishes, and beyond that Durr fears to tread.  What alternative did the community organizations offer to blockbusting, aside from trying to prevent blacks from moving?  We don't know that either.  Durr makes much of the unfairness of working class whites having to bear the brunt of integrating schools which suburban whites could escape from, but they hardly proposed county-wide integration or proposals to improve black schools.  He speaks vaguely of some sort of \\"separate but equal\\" alliance between working class blacks and whites might have been possible had it not been, once again, elitist liberals, but he doesn't develop the point.   Hardly surprising, really, since if whites do not wish blacks to live near them, work with them, sleep with them or go to the same schools, it is not likely that they will unite to the mutual benefit of both.  Durr makes much of blue collar \\"realism\\" as opposed to the \\"abstractions\\" of liberal intellectuals, but he repeats their claims about welfare and dirty black quarters without any real analysis of whether that is true, or why.  Durr prides his subjects for their sense of moral seriousness, yet this is a book where the most profound moral questions are evaded or the subject changed or other people blamed.   As even Durr admits himself this is a working class political tradition that is often useless or ineffective or quietist when not directed about blacks.  And starting with Jew-baiting against the CIO in the forties, Joe McCarthy's infamous doctored photograph against Senator Tydings, or enthusiasm for venial, shabby, dishonest people like George Wallace and Spiro Agnew, it is not a tradition known for its fine judge of character.  The only way Durr can encourage our sympathy for this fundamentally demagogic practice is to adapt much of it himself.	2003-09-29
US	52562171	R3EQDEGGTPBD0U	078688830X	900537440	10 Sure Signs a Movie Character is Doomed: And Other Surprising Movie Lists	Books	2	20	51	N	N	Feeble	As I've said before there are two types of movie critics; those who like the movies nominated for Best Picture and those who are actually worth reading.  Richard Roeper is one critic who clearly falls into the first category.  Now perhaps one shouldn't be too harsh about what is supposed to be very light reading, a book of silly movie lists.  But one cannot ignore the fact that Roeper is not a very interesting movie critic.  Consider the six films made since 1997 that Roeper suggests should join the American Film Institute's 100 finest films.  None of the six is an especially inspired choice.  But \\"American Beauty\\"?  \\"A Beautiful Mind\\"?  The first is a meretricious, selfish, misogynistic film only partially redeemed by Kevin Spacey's performance.  The second is cheap sentimental Oscar-mongering trash.  Consider how Roeper thinks up a list of movies that should have been, but were not, nominated for best picture, and misses both \\"Vertigo\\" and \\"Brazil.\\"  And consider also how the list of movies that Roeper considers overrated mostly consists of small, independent pictures while those on the list that Roeper considers underrated consist of well-publicized would be blockbusters.  I haven't seen either \\"3000 miles to Graceland\\" or \\"Angel Eyes,\\" but \\"Star Wars 2\\"?  No, this is not a good sign.  And what this about a list of 10 documentaries that are preferable to feature films?  Only ten?<br />Other critics have done a better job of defending trash and perhaps Roeper might have done a better job if he had chosen a less shallow format.  But then again, maybe not.  His lack of critical judgement is only part of a larger conventionality.  Consider the list that is the title of the book.  We know that a character is doomed if (a) he's a police officer on the verge of retirement and looking forward to his new condo or (b) they are teenagers who decide to have sex while a vicious psychotic is running around killing people.  Excuse me?  Haven't we been making jokes about these sort of clichs for a decade or two?  Other lists show a similar lack of imagination:  bad movies that Seinfeld characters have appeared, bad movies that the stars of \\"Friends\\" have appeared it.  There is also a certain prurience involved in such lists as female stars who have never done a nude scene, or two pages of actresses kissing other actresses, or more than a page of excruciatingly bad and leering porno film puns.  Also conventional is the inclusion of \\"Ishtar\\" as one of the worst movies ever made, supposedly because it perhaps the most unprofitable comedy ever made.  I suppose it might be useful for trivia purposes to know how many movies Jay Leno has made cameos in, or how many movies include \\"I Feel Good\\" on the soundtrack.  And there are some nasty shots at \\"Good Will Hunting.\\"  But overall this is a book that is more forgettable than fun.	2003-09-15
US	52562171	RW5ZZ3ZSR14B3	0631233601	48580701	Sweet Violence: The Idea of the Tragic	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Grim Amusement	This is a complex and subtle book that deals with consistent intelligence on the importance of tragedy.  It also shows what is simultaneously Eagleton's great virtue and great vice, an obsessive and all-powering love of paradox.  In small doses Eagleton's constant emphasis on irony is stimulating and properly dialectical.  Over three hundred pages, the length of this book, it can be repetitive and overly mechanical. There is something a bit predictable in Eagleton's constant desire to be original and stimulating. And yet it is worth it to work their way through this book.  Eagleton starts off by dealing with two common ideas of what is tragic.  The first is that tragedy is something that is very sad.  This is considered by many academics to be trite, and they present the second, more pernicious view that tragedy is something of great import that happens to sufficiently great people and in doing show vindicates the justice and morality of the natural order.  <br />Eagleton is properly critical of this and much of the book is an acute critique of those tragic theorists who seek to resolve the cruelty and horror of life into convenient didactic messages.  Noting C.S. Lewis' passing reference to the fundamentally untragic quality of everyday life and ordinary people, the \\"uncouth mixture of agony and littleness\\" Eagleton notes that Lewis' own writings on his wife's premature death \\"do not seem to view the event as dull and uninteresting, though other people's real lives are perhaps much more uncouth than one's own.\\"  Commenting on Martha's Nussbaum's argument that Antigone shows the sterility of a conflict-free life Eagleton notes that is akin to arguing that \\"the lesson of the Illiad is that the ancient world needed a United Nations Organization.\\"  A.C. Bradley, George Steiner and Karl Jaspers are also rebuked for rhapsodizing Tragedy.  Throughout the book Eagleton constantly swerves through a panopoly of Scyllas and Charibdeses.  On the one hand we must beware those who conservatively and callously invoke reactionary assumptions of a \\"human nature.\\"  On the other hand we must not accept those shallow post-modernists who assume that all change is good, and that one should be hostile to whatever is permanent, unalterable or historical.  On the one hand it is callous to assume that suffering is ennobling and tragedy great for that purpose, since most people are clearly not redeemed that way.  On the other hand one must not be so sceptical as to reject hope altogether or simply assume that is naive to possess it.  Eagleton notes Franco Moretti's provocative comment that the modern world prefers unhappiness, because assuming the worst is likely to occur makes it easier for bourgeois society to forgive itself for not providing the best or the adequate.  On the one hand the didactic and teleological aspects of Kant appear crude, while on the other hand the primitivist and simple-minded valorization of \\"life\\" itself in Nietzsche and Lawrence are callous and cruel in their indifference to others.<br />After discussing the weakness of tragic theory, Eagleton goes on to discuss the value of agony.  He then goes on to discuss tragic theory from Hegel to Beckett, and then discusses the problem of heroes in tragedy.  There then follows a long discussion of freedom, fate and justice which includes, not always productively, a discussion of the problems of determinism.  Yet Eagleton points out that tragedy, which supposedly vindicates the moral order undermines it by showing so much gratuitous injustice and cruelty, a problem much tragic theory cannot really grasp.  There is then a chapter on pity, fear and pleasure, which includes a passage on incest and also raises the question of whether are pity is a scarcely concealed sadism at the fate of others.  There are then a chapter on tragedy in the novel and the interesting relationship between tragedy and modernity.  Tragedy can be dismissed as archaic, yet arguably the experience of modernity isitself tragic.  Although critical of Lukacs and of the pessimism of much Western Marxism, Eagleton praises it for recognizing the essential truth of modernity, that is both a \\"revolutionary advance\\" and \\"one light nightmare of butchery and exploitation.\\"  There is then a chapter on the nature of evil and the emptiness of the demonic.  In this chapter and in the concluding one about sacrifice and Thomas Mann one occasionally feels that Eagleton is pushing the logic of official rites not only farther than the officials want, but also farther than anyone would normally like to push it.  Eagleton is a former Catholic and often notes the similarity of Marxism and Christianity in the way they can combine deep pessimism with a sense of ultimate hope.  As a Jew myself, I don't find this comparison entirely kosher, but this unpromising theme repeats itself through the book.   It is perhaps appropriate then that Eagleton concludes his work by arguing the Left must go beyond the rhetoric and pragmatism and culturalism.  Instead of a Catholic or a Protestant, Eagleton quotes Kafka and his final metaphor is the last thing Joseph K sees before he dies.	2003-09-08
US	52562171	R3CZ6DMO3D007C	067401071X	270916143	What Is Gnosticism?	Books	3	69	88	N	N	Gnosticism:  the shocking vagueness	What is Gnosticism?  That's a good question, and one that this book does not satisfactorily answer.  Like the term \\"paganism,\\" gnosticism is a term imposed by orthodox Christians, not one used by its supposed practitioners.  \\"Gnostic\\" is the term of abuse coined by Christian orthodoxy starting with Irenaeus, and \\"Gnosticism\\" dates to the early Enlightenment.   With the rise of a more scientific history of Christianity scholars have asked themselves where did Gnosticism come from and what influence did it have on Christianity?  Was it a pernicious heresy or was it close to what some early Christians actually believed?  For centuries scholars had to answer these questions based not on what Gnostics actually thought and said, but what orthodox polemicists said about them.   But then in 1945 a library of apparently Gnostic writings was found in the desert near Nag Hammadi, Egypt.  Karen King's book looks first at the orthodox who damned it is a heresy.  Then she looks  those scholars who, like the Liberal Protestant von Harnack, viewed it as a Hellenistic corruption, or like the historians of religions, thought it was a sort of Oriental decadence.  After looking at the scholar Hans Jonas, she actually compares the supposedly Gnostic with the actual Nag Hammadi materials.  <br />The result is not entirely successful.  The most useful chapter is the seventh one.  Before that King has discussed some of the differences within the Nag Hammadi material.  Not finding many Greek or Persian Gnostic pre-Christian texts, some scholars have argued that Gnosticism's origins are to be found in Judaism.  King points out some problems with this theory, some more valid than others.  For a start, few if any purely Jewish Gnostic texts exist, although many use the first chapters of Genesis as a starting point.  Attempts at source criticism by Birger Pearson appear confused and arbitrary.   None of the Gnostics appear to be Jewish, though in the whole book King probably names only a dozenpeople who could possibly fit that category.  King also suggests that it would be uncomfortable to argue for a Jewish origin of Gnosticism, since much of Gnosticism was based on the belief that the God of Jewish scriptures was an evil spiteful God, which leads to the \\"irony\\" that Jews were responsible for a major anti-Jewish argument.  On the other hand, Christianity began with unequivocally Jewish origins and ended up cursing Jews for their \\"ingratitude\\", so such a perverse twist is not unprecedented.<br />Is there a unified phenomenon of Gnosticism?  In looking at the Nag Hammadi material, King argues that it cannot be all described as dualistic, showing the struggle between the true God and the evil creator God.  The Gospel of Truth does not fit into this category.  The Book of Thomas shows hatred for the body, but it does not show either a distinction between the True God and the Creator God, or assert that Gnostics are saved by nature or moral endeavour.  The Gospel of Thomas does not mention a wicked Demiurge.  It may advocate celibacy, but it more clearly rejects wealth and power, while fasting, prayer, almsgiving and other ascetic practices are viewed ambiguously.  King makes the point that though The Gospel of Thomas could be interpreted in a Gnostic matter, that does not necessarily mean it was originally so.  (She could have added that Gnostics interpreted the Gospel of John and the Pauline epistles as Gnostic texts.)  Even the Apocryphon of John, which is most clear about malevolent creation and the need for a heroic rescue, is not unambiguously Gnostic.  Its constant discussion of the demons who infect the body show not that the body is evil but how to give \\"practical\\" advice on how to exorcise them.  Salvation still requires moral effort, nor is it reserved for an elite.  King is more successful in showing that the accusation of libertinism is not supported by the texts.  Nor is the complementary accusation of asceticism entirely fair.  Gnostic ascetics were often similar to orthodox Christian ascetics, not simply acting out of a blind hatred for creation and material existence.  Nor were all Gnostic texts docetist.  The Apocryphon of James and the Letter of Peter to Philip state that a real Jesus faced real suffering and a real death.<br />This is not an easy book to read and many eyes will glaze over as they read King's less than pellucid descriptions of \\"genealogy\\" and \\"typology\\".  Rather than answering the questions that I have mentioned above, King in her final chapter prefers to riff on the advantage of a Foucaultian history.  Such an approach would find a way of getting around the theological biases that have infected the study of gnosticism.  I am not convinced by this.  It is true that von Harnack's belief that a supposedly Hellenistic Gnosticism was corrupting and parasitic on Christianity is based on his Protestant belief that Jesus was the appearance of God in history and that any secular influences would bound to be impious and imperfect.  It is true that the history of religions school were influenced by Orientalist contempt for the East.  But the main problem with the study of Gnosticism is the scarcity of evidence.  We have texts, but we have almost nothing on who believed in them or interpreted them and how they influenced Christianity.  A Foucaultian methodology is not going to get around that problem.  King's argument that there is too much diversity to use the common term of Gnosticism is not altogether convincing.  If we take away the idea of libertine/ascetic ideals or \\"salvation by nature\\" as orthodox Christian misunderstandings, we still have a cosmological myth that is sufficiently different to get some sort of coherent undestanding.  King's emphasis on writing a more diverse, non-narrative account of Christianity's history seems less a corrective to the limitations of orthodoxy.  Instead, it appears an indulgence in heterogeneity and diversity for their own sake.	2003-09-02
US	52562171	R2LX8IADYSDM4H	0801486815	577688282	Germany's War and the Holocaust: Disputed Histories	Books	3	38	41	N	N	3.4 stars.  A collection with many useful insights	This is the third collection of essays by Omer Bartov since the publication of his major work, \\"Hitler's Army,\\" more than a decade ago.  Much of it works around his reviews for \\"The New Republic\\" of works by Gotz Aly, Wolfgang Sofsky, and Daniel Goldhagen as well as the diaries of Victor Klemperer.  The first two chapters recapitulate much of \\"Hitler's Army\\" while looking at the nature of the army and historical debates over the nature of blitzkrieg.  In the next three chapters Bartov looks at Aly, Sofsky, and Goldhagen.  Throughout his discussion he tries to balance an emphasis on the importance of anti-Semitic ideology while not descending to crude teleological explanations.  The final three chapters look at interpretations.  The first one, and the best chapter of the book, looks at the reception of Goldhagen's \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners.\\"  There is then a moving chapter on Klemperer and a final chapter on the \\"Representations of Absence\\" of Jews in post-war German culture.<br />Some criticisms are in order.  Bartov has emphasized the internalization of Nazi ideology in German society, especially among German soldiers.  But this does not so much answer the question of why the Holocaust happened as to lead to more questions.  We still have to ask ourselves why people accepted not only anti-Semitic ideology but an ideology that was patently mad.  Many cultured and civilized ruling classes in the twentieth century are rife with snobbery and smugness.  How does one get from the endemic prejudices of Kaiserreich Germany to the genocidal fantasies of the Third Reich?  A second problem arises from the last chapter.  I find his discussions of the apparent absence of Jews overly abstract and vague.  That there are relatively few portraits of Jews in post-war German literature and films is not surprising.  Most writers, everywhere, write about what they know best.  After all, there are very few white American portraits of African-Americans or slavery, and the exceptions, \\"Uncle Tom's Cabin,\\" and \\"The Confessions of Nat Turner,\\" are not encouraging.  Nor is he fair to Gunter Grass who, after all, was only 12 when the second world war started and therefore not likely to know any Jews personally.  And why concentrate on \\"The Tin Drum,\\" when the equally important \\"Dog Years\\" has a half-Jewish protagonist?  Thirdly, there is a problem with his discussion of French debate over the Holocaust, since the participants involved are actually dealing with different questions.  Bartov is dealing with the nature of the Holocaust, while many of his French participants are looking at the political manipulation of genocide.  Likewise it strikes me as questionable to say that Holocaust denial is \\"respectable\\" in France.  Certainly none of the eccentrics had the international reputation of the disingenuous David Irving.  Fourthly, I would also like to criticize a point about military discipline in the Wehrmacht.  Bartov points out that few, if any, of the thousands of German soldiers executed on the Eastern Front showed any moral or ideological opposition to the war.  Perhaps, but then people on trial for their life during an ideological crusade are not going to make their position worse by adding treason to their malingering.<br />On the other hand much of the book is valuable and informative.  The discussion of Sofsky makes the invaluable point that the extermination camp was not the concentration camp writ large and that the origins of Treblinka are to be found less in Dachau than in the euthanasia campaign.  Bartov astutely points out the flaws in Goldhagen's argument that the Germans murdered the Jews because they were essentially fanatical anti-Semites from the beginning.  (1) Such an explanation really does not explain the pre-1933 period, nor does it explain why \\"eliminationist\\" anti-Semitism vanished after 1945; (2) Goldhagen's account uses killers who were not only not \\"Ordinary Germans\\" but were not German at all, while it ignores those Germans who occasionally tried to help Jews.  Bartov also provides a moving and intelligent account of Victor Klemperer as he points out Klemperer's courage and considerable power of detail as well as his dogmatic anti-Zionism and his increasingly desperate protestations of his own \\"Germanness,\\" at a time when he was abandoned and ignored by the rest of Germany.  Most impressive is his discussion of holocaust consciousness in Israel, as cursed by \\"overexposure,\\" and the fear that it has been manipulated to serve the interests of national identity.  Bartov then goes on to discuss Stanley Milgram's famous behavioural experiment, in which subjects were told to \\"electrocute\\" people who pretended to be shocked, even to the point of death.  While not rejecting the experiment altogether Bartov points out, first, Milgram's rather stunning prejudices against his poorer, female and in one spectacular case, Jewish subjects, who in general agreed to electrocute people to death.  Bartov then points out that the wealthy, well educated people whom Milgram praised for not blindly following the experiment were precisely those who in Germany were more likely to support the Nazis and who staffed the key exterminationist positions.  All in all, Bartov's new collection, while somewhat repetitive, is also intelligent, thoughtful and well-worth reading.ermans who occasionally tried to help Jews.  Bartov also provides a moving and intelligent account of Victor Klemperer as he points out Klemperer's courage and considerable power of detail as well as his dogmatic anti-Zionism and his increasingly desperate protestations of his own \\"Germanness,\\" at a time when he was abandoned and ignored by the rest of Germany.   Most impressive is his discussion of holocaust consciousness in Israel, as cursed by \\"overexposure,\\" and the fear that it has been manipulated to serve the interests of national identity.  Bartov then goes on to discuss Stanley Milgram's famous behavioural experiment, in which subjects were told to \\"electrocute\\" people who pretended to be shocked, even to the point of death.  While not rejecting the experiment altogether Bartov points out, first, Milgram's rather stunning prejudices against his poorer, female and in one spectacular case, Jewish subjects, who in general agreed to electrocute people to death.  Bartov then points out that the wealthy, well educated people whom Milgram praised for not blindly following the experiment were precisely those who in Germany were more likely to support the Nazis and who staffed the key exterminationist positions.  All in all, Bartov's new collection, while somewhat repetitive, is also intelligent, thoughtful and well-worth reading.	2003-08-25
US	52562171	R2XV57VX79UQZE	037542234X	949761823	Interesting Times: A Twentieth-Century Life	Books	4	41	45	N	N	A fascinating memoir	There has been much discussion in American intellectual life about the appeal of Communism to intellectuals.  But much of this talk reveals little that is profound, because it is not intended to.  It is less designed to understand the traison des clercs than to applaud both the author and the reader for resistance to its temptations.  The career of E.J. Hobsbawm complicates this self-regard.  Here is a historian who is regarded by almost all as a principled and distinguished historian, a man whose works exude moderation, calm and good sense yet who belonged to the Communist Party of Great Britain until the collapse of the Soviet Union.  He helped to found, and was chairman, of the British Communist Party Historian's Group at perhaps the darkest period of Stalinist terror against intellectuals, yet in 1952 he helped to found, and for decades was a crucial figure of \\"Past and Present,\\" the leading journal of history in the English-speaking world.<br />How to explain this anomaly?  It is important to point out that he opposed the 1956 invasion of Hungary and that by 1968 both he and the party opposed the invasion of Czechoslovakia and took a much more liberal Eurocommunist line.  It is important to point out that much of this has to do with tact, both on his part and that of the British party.  He wrote little on history after 1914 until 1989 and held no party offices, and the party did not criticize him.  It should be clear, since recent reviews by David Pryce-Jones in \\"The New Criterion\\" and Richard Pipes in \\"Commentary,\\" do everything to confuse the issue, that Hobsbawm's ideal from the sixties to the eighties was Berlingeur, not Brezhnev, that he opposed Tony Benn and preferred Neil Kinnock to Michael Foot, and that De Gaulle and FDR are the world leaders that get the most praise here.  In contrast to Pryce-Jones's hysterical and unsupported assertions, Hobsbawm's Communist Party membership did not undermine his integrity as a historian.  (Though one wonders aboutPryce-Jones' own competence, where he makes the incorrect assertion that \\"The Age of Extremes\\" does not mention the Gulag.)<br />\\"Yes, but what about before 1956?\\"  Hobsbawm admits that he supported Communism's anti-Social Democrat strategy in Weimar (when he was 15), and that he supported the Nazi-Soviet Pact.  He reminds us that for the first eight months of the war the conservatives of France and Britain thought less of attacking Hitler than of trying to attack the Soviet Union in the course of defending Finland.  We learn of his doubts and nervousness, in his case it was over the break with Tito, the Rajk trial in Hungary and a depressing 1954 visit to the Soviet Union.  We learn much about the internationalism and efficiency of the party and the fact that for better or for worse it was the major revolutionary movement around.<br />But this is a valuable book not simply because it describes how a rational and thoughtful man could believe in a course of political action that was in retrospect patently wrongheaded (he writes that Communism \\"left behind a landscape of material and moral ruin,\\" and that \\"it must now be obvious that failure was built into the their enterprise from the start.\\")  We also read many intelligent and thoughtful set-pieces, such as Hobsbawm's early life in post-war Vienna, or the reaction to the Fall of France. We learn about how this central-European/English Jew became a reputable jazz critic, under the name of Francis Newton, named after one of the few Communist jazz players. There are the chapters where he looks at his experiences in France, Italy, Latin America, and less successfully, the United States.  These are filled with interesting and penetrating anecdotes along with thoughtful comments of how these countries have changed over the past fifty to seventy years.  In France he notes the formality and dignity demanded by French intellectuals, of whom Sartre was an exception.  We learn how in Italy the PCI's concern over how local groups elected as branch secretaries, of all people, Seventh Day Adventists.  We also learn of the time Hobsbawm was talking in Sicily with a local Communist when the latter suggested that it would be best if the locals didn't know he was English.  It would be better if they thought he was from Bologna.  But hadn't we been talking in English all day?  That's all right, \\"What do these guys know how they talk in Bologna?\\"  <br />We learn about his relationship with the sixties rebels, how he did not fully understand (and did not admire) their hedonistic attitude towards sex.  He was sympathetic to the Black Panthers, though he knew they had no chance of succeeding, opposed Qubcois and Basque nationalists, while the Shining Path was the first rebel group he clearly did not want to win.  We learn interesting anecdotes about intellectuals.  He suggests that it may have been J.L. Talmon, the conservative Israeli historian, who suggested to his publisher that Hobsbawm write \\"The Age of Revolution.\\"  We learn about his unsuccessful attempts to take E.M. Forster to see Lenny Bruce, and the economist Paul Baran to see Miles Davis.  We learn that Hobsbawm has relatives in Chile, and that they supported Pinochet.  Memoirs are often apologetic and misleading, especially among historians.  As Perry Anderson pointed out in excellent review in \\"The London Review of Books,\\" this book is very much an exception.	2003-08-13
US	52562171	R1Z06KEFEJDZCX	0691009139	329934345	A Century of Genocide: Utopias of Race and Nation	Books	3	28	29	N	N	It lacks something	Several years ago Eric Weitz wrote a fascinating book about the German Communist Party which argued that its notoriously truculent and dogmatic nature was not simply the result of Stalinist domination, but instead reflected the party's own German traditions as well as an understandable reaction to Weimar's intolerance of them.  One would think that Weitz would be an excellent author to write about twentieth-century genocide.  But this comparative account of four major genocides is disappointing.  By his own admission Weitz does not have sufficient scholarly expertise to study the genocides in Armenia and Rwanda.  So instead he looks first at Soviet terror in general and the more specifically genocidal deportations carried out against various nationalities during and after World War Two.  Then he looks at Nazi Germany, Pol Pot Cambodia and the Serbian attack on Bosnia.  All of his four accounts share certain key similarities.  First, all the perpetrators were moved by a utopian ideology.  Second, all the perpetrators were in some way or another \\"modern\\" and sought to use modern instruments to carry out their crimes.  Third, all the genocides took place in periods of profound social and political crisis.  Fourth, all the genocides were able to use the mass complicity of the society as a whole.  Fifth, all the genocides had their own savage rituals of inhumanity.<br />Not bad, and the discussion of the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany are based on a reasonable discussion of the latest research.  But there are some real problems with Weitz's account.  For a start consider the \\"utopian\\" nature of genocide.  Weitz does not define what a \\"utopia\\" is.  This is rather important, since \\"utopian\\" implies the impossible, indeed the impossible that it would be dangerous to attempt.  But while the Holocaust was a uniquely cruel atrocity, it was hardly \\"utopian\\" since it was, in fact, all too possible to kill 90% of Polish Jewry.  More problematically, to what extent can Serbian nationalism be viewed as utopian?  Undoubtedly some people thought a victorious Greater Serbia would lead to a better future.  But the dominant themes in Serbian propaganda were paranoia, fear and self-pity.  Instead of looking to a glorious millennium, Serbs concentrated on the \\"collective guilt\\" of Croats and Bosnians with Nazism.  What Utopias did the Hutus dream of, or the final rulers of the Ottoman Empire have?  One may agree with Weitz that Hitler and his colleagues believed in a \\"redemptive\\" anti-Semitism.  But how far did this filter down to his executioners?  (It strikes me that Arno Mayer's oft-derided \\"Why did the Heavens Not Darken,\\" about the connection of the Holocaust to a vicious war against Communism, does better at answering this question.)  The modernity of \\"genocide\\" is also problematic.  That is certainly the case with Cambodia.  Weitz's focus on ideology and ideological logic does not explain why Pol Pot followed a path that no other Communist party did.  At one point Weitz suggests that Pol Pot's policies flowed logically from an ultra-radicalism, yet at other points he notes that he had to purge the Communist party frequently.  More importantly, emptying the cities and abolishing money does not strike me as clever plans to destroy the ancien regime while following Democratic Kamuchea's own path to industrial modernity.<br />There are other problems.  While genocide is understandably linked to war and crisis, this is not always the case.  When destroying half of the population of what is now Congo, Belgium faced no imminent threat, nor did it carry out its crimes for any other reason than greed.  Too much concentration on utopia and conflation of it with \\"fanaticism\\" leads to tautology.  We condemn genocides as acts of fanaticism, and then define as fanatical genocidal acts.  Weitz's discussion of the Yugoslav crisis does not really explain why so many Serbs and other Yugoslavs would support a policy that would definitely make the new nations considerably less than the sum of their parts.  At one point Weitz mentions that Yugoslavia had a weaker civil society than, say, Poland or East Germany.  But what distinguished pre-Milosevic Yugoslavia was not an especially brutal Communist regime.  Indeed, the opposite was the case.  Nor did Milosevic Serbia lack opposition parties and an independent church.  There were no shortage of Serbs who denounced Milosevic, but a profound shortage of those who denounced Srebnica, and Weitz does not really explain why.  At times Weitz's arguments are weak.  He discusses popular complicity with genocidal crimes, though his main example for Nazi Germany actually takes place in Lithuania.  He takes an example of one Serbian thug who comments that a victim looks like a cabbage and generalizes that this how all Serbian fighters viewed Bosnians.  This is part of a larger problem with Weitz's discussion of ritual.  Much of what he says about tortures and the rituals of atrocities is true, much of it is obvious, much of it is fashionable, but none of it is new or original.  Likewise the accounts of genocide, while obviously horrific, do not really get us close to the minds of the perpetrators.    Ultimately this is a book that adds little to our knowledge.	2003-08-07
US	52562171	R322GZM2Q6CTT9	0691096848	283788808	How Russia Shaped the Modern World: From Art to Anti-Semitism, Ballet to Bolshevism	Books	2	16	28	N	N	Bland, but tendentious	Great histories often leave readers asking new questions.  But the only question one asks on reading this book is why Princeton University Press bothered to publish it.  The thesis of Marks' book is a simple one.  The modern world has been seriously influenced by such Russian phenomenon as the contrasting anarchisms of Bakunin and Kropotkin, the novels of Dostoevsky and Tolstoy, Russian Ballet and Russian Modern Art, and the cursed progeny of Russian Anti-Semitism and Soviet Communism.  You don't say.  It strikes me as a truism that any large and important country would have at some point in its long history have a major impact on the rest of the world.<br />As it happens, Marks's book is even less impressive than that summary suggests.  Consider the question of influence.  Would the same thing have happened had Russian never existed?  Marks' first chapter deals with the problem of anarchism.  He argues that Bakunin and the vile, sinister Nechayev were the prototypes of the modern terrorist.  There is some truth to this.  But let us consider that Proudhon, not Bakunin, was more the father of anarchism.  Or that conspiratorial cliques owe their existence to Babeuf, Blanqui and the Carbonnari.  Or that the importance of the Fenians, who assassinated a Canadian cabinet minister before Bakunin even met Nechayev.  Or that the Ku Klux Klan committed far worse terrorist outrages than all the anarchist groups put together.  Likewise would the rise of jazz in Europe really have been delayed if, as Marks suggests, the example of Diaghilev and his \\"primitive\\" ballet had not been there to encourage things?  Can one really say that Mumford's municipal planning or the ecological movement would not exist were it not for Kropotkin?  Tolstoy did not invent pacifism, so do we really have to read a potted history of Gandhi and the civil rights movement?<br />A second problem is the book's deep mediocrity.  Marks is not an interesting writer.  He shows no great critical skills, has looked at no new original sources, and makes no profound claims.  The chapter on the Protocols of the Elders of Zion is not really an improvement on Norman Cohn's three and a half decade old classic.  Although he is writing about two of the greatest novelists who ever lived he quotes next to nothing from Tolstoy or Dostoevsky that is interesting, witty or profound.  What we do have is a long list of people who admired these two writers, something we really didn't need to prove.  Moreover what he does write is infected with clich&eacute;:  \\"Dostoevsky's fiction encapsulates the convulsive dynamism and instability of his own life and the rapidly changing world he lived in.\\"  \\"\\"The heroes of Dostoevsky's writings scream out in the torment of urban life...\\"  He writes of Dostoevsky's Orthodoxy so much as an \\"Eastern\\" religion one might think it had more in common with Hinduism than Protestantism.  And Joyce's \\"Ulysses\\" does NOT \\"urge submission to a God-ordered world...\\"<br />The third and most important problem is Marks' theoretical framework.  For Marks is not simply portraying any kind of Russian influence.  He is arguing that Russians are the carriers, like bacteria, of anti-modernizing impulses.  This thesis relies on the whole \\"modernization\\" paradigm of the sixties and seventies which saw an unproblematic relationship between the rise of capitalism, liberalism, democracy, industrialism and Anglo-American dominance, and insinuated that any opposition to this could be dismissed as primitive and irrational.  This paradigm has been thoroughly attacked by hordes of scholars such as Eley, Blackbourn, Sperber, Berenson, Segalen, Lih, Rosenberg, Shanin, Lears, Scott, and many, many others.  It unproblematically assumes that Russia, both before and after 1917, can be described as simply unmodern and unEuropean.  There is no problem for Marks that Tolstoy supposedly inspires both pacifists and Nazi psychopaths, because there is not that much difference between left and right.So we get statements such that both Dostoevsky and the revolutionaries both disliked cities, or that Tolstoy was opposed to parliamentary democracy, non-existent in the Russia of his lifetime and not much evident elsewhere on the continent.  Having noticed that Henry Ford was the leading American anti-semite, Marks argues that he was really antimodern.  He also says Mussolini and Hitler were \\"anticapitalist\\" on the basis of little evidence.  The last pages on Communism and the Third World are especially shallow, with Communism the basis for dictators as different as Attaruk and Mobutu.  Communism is blamed for almost everything that has done wrong with the Third World since independence.  This is based on statements such as his claim that with the exception of the Indian/Pakistan wars, \\"every major war between Third World protagonist before the 1990s was started by a state armed by the Soviet Union.\\"  Leaving aside that most third world wars were and are civil wars, this is patently untrue, since Israel clearly started the 1956 and 1982 wars, and the 1967 war as well.  And what about the Falklands war, the attacks on East Timor and the Spanish Sahara, or Zairean/South African intervention that started the Angolan Civil war, or the way the United States was responsible for both the Vietnam War and the widening of the war to Laos and Cambodia?  One is reminded in reading this of Orlando Figes' \\"Natasha's Dance.\\"  It was not that good a book, but at least it was more fun.So we get statements such that both Dostoevsky and the revolutionaries both disliked cities, or that Tolstoy was opposed to parliamentary democracy, non-existent in the Russia of his lifetime and not much evident elsewhere on the continent.  Having noticed that Henry Ford was the leading American anti-semite, Marks argues that he was really antimodern.  He also says Mussolini and Hitler were \\"anticapitalist\\" on the basis of little evidence.  The last pages on Communism and the Third World are especially shallow, with Communism the basis for dictators as different as Attaruk and Mobutu.  Communism is blamed for almost everything that has done wrong with the Third World since independence.   This is based on statements such as his claim that with the exception of the Indian/Pakistan wars, \\"every major war between Third World protagonist before the 1990s was started by a state armed by the Soviet Union.\\"  Leaving aside that most third world wars were and are civil wars, this is patently untrue, since Israel clearly started the 1956 and 1982 wars, and the 1967 war as well.   And what about the Falklands war, the attacks on East Timor and the Spanish Sahara, or Zairean/South African intervention that started the Angolan Civil war, or the way the United States was responsible for both the Vietnam War and the widening of the war to Laos and Cambodia?  One is reminded in reading this of Orlando Figes' \\"Natasha's Dance.\\"  It was not that good a book, but at least it was more fun.	2003-08-01
US	52562171	R3KP26FOB62C7F	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	2	41	54	N	N	Politically Correct Nihilism	Margaret Atwood's latest novel begins with Jimmy \\"the Snowman\\" struggling to survive after a horrible apocalypse that may have killed the rest of humanity.  The only other humans are the new ones created by the genetic engineer \\"Crake,\\" who were taught by the beautiful \\"Oryx.\\"  As the book proceeds we switch back and forth between Jimmy's present, a ravaged future where creatures such as pigoons, wolvogs, bobkittens and ordinary vultures scourge the ruined landscape, and the story of his past.  Jimmy grew up in a prosperous family where his father worked with a genetic engineering company.  The planet had already been savaged by ecological disaster, but the wealthy and powerful blithely continued their tampering of nature.  Now the theme of scientists muddling with nature and making a botch of it goes back to Mary Shelley.  And the same theme has been dealt with by Robert Louis Stevenson, H.G. Wells, Olaf Stapledon, Aldous Huxley and John Wyndham.  What does Atwood add?  Well, there is Atwood's trademark professional style and wit, a style and wit that may yet win her the Nobel prize that she so definitely does not deserve.  In discussing the shallow, selfish scientific world before its destruction, she discusses such frivolous inventions as mechanical dogs that have been programmed to urinate, or the sentient aphrodisiac wallpaper.  Then there is the chorus line the naked male Children of Crake when they start their pre-programmed mating rituals.  Less amusing and more frightening are the headless and legless chickens designed for our eating pleasure.  My favourite are the artificial rocks that are lighter but more efficient than real ones.   <br />But ultimately the book suffers from the flaws common to all of Atwood's novels.  Read once Atwood appears stimulating and thoughtful.  Read a second time we see her as glib and facile, a purveyor of middlebrow paradoxes.  At one point Jimmy summarizes his best friend's view as that humanity is doomed by hope.  At another point Jimmy asks himself whether someone was mad or a \\"honourable man who'd thought things to their logical conclusion?  And was there any difference?\\"  Well considering that the person in question is guilty of genocide, yes, there kind of is.  Some of Jimmy's comments are pseudo-profound (\\"You could tell a lot about a person from their fridge magnets...\\") in such a way that Atwood can take credit for them if they work and disassociate herself from them if they don't.  <br />But as with Updike, a glib and facile style only hides other problems.  Atwood could develop characters but she has no desire to understand other people, and she has no desire to subject herself or her own opinions to any serious self-examination.  Although Atwood has a reputation as a feminist it would be more accurate to describe her as a solipsist.  It is true that the best two characters in the book are women.  One is Jimmy's mother who leaves to combat the scientific insanity of her world and is brutally executed for it.  The other is Oryx, who is as sweet as saccharin and about as healthy, and who despite a horrible life as a child sex slave and a prostitute is nothing but loving and forgiving towards everyone she meets.  And when Jimmy and Crake look up pornography on the internet it is always unremittingly vile, such as child porn and bestiality, before they go on to look at websites of live executions and suicides.  But on the other hand there is the cold snotty description in chapter ten of Jimmy's stepmother as she seeks to have a baby.   At first Atwood's contempt for her may appear puritanical, but in reality it is snobbish and sarcastic.  Jimmy himself fluctuates from being a moral idiot to being a mouthpiece for Atwood's \\"concerns\\" about genetic engineering.  When he sees poor people for the first time he thinks they will kick up their heels like in a thirties musical.  Although several people close to him have been murdered or subjected to appalling cruelty, he lives his life in an apolitical haze, never having a serious intellectual discussion and showing no imagination, curiosity, indignation, gentleness, despair or passion.  (No one else finds this odd or abnormal, by the way.)  And there is no attempt to get into the minds of the corporate technocrats here, just as there was no real attempt to appreciate the husband in The Blind Assassin, or the fundamentalists in The Handmaid's Tale or the Victorian elite in Alias Grace.<br />Other novels have dealt with the extinction of humanity.  They are usually not very successful.  Mary Shelley's The Last Man is very tedious, while books like The Gnomids are often heavy-handed parables.  But even flawed works like Cat's Cradle or A Canticle for Lebowitz had a certain frission when nuclear holocaust was a major possibility.  There is something different in Atwood's account, something rancid.  We never learn from Atwood why one of her key characters is a complete lunatic who is blithely guilty of murder and mass murder.  But then maybe he isn't insane at all.  No one seems to recognize that his plans are evil and inhumane, and the conclusion we are meant to draw is that he is not really all that different from his fellow scientists and the enormous corporations that they serve.  It is not a murder at all, really, more like a suicide.  To which I say, cheap nihilist poppycock.  There is no real sense of horror or regret or agony or destroyed hope when his atrocity occurs, just Atwood's sense of superiority to her characters.  Celine and Bernhard write of a loveless world; Atwood's creation simply shows a woman who keeps her cards close to her chest.  She is not pessimistic, just smug.  There is something very Canadian about this.  For only someone who lived in the sheltered prosperous world of upper middle-class English Protestant Canadians could be glib and cold about the genocide of humanity.	2003-07-22
US	52562171	R3MKSEX4QXPBRJ	080712866X	248243958	A Sphinx on the American Land: The Nineteenth-Century South in Comparative Perspective	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures Rock!	Welcome to another instalment of the Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures.  This year's lectures are by Peter Kolchin, best known for his comparison of American slavery and Russian serfdom.  While not as illuminating as previous lecturers Eric Foner (Nothing but Freedom) or Drew Gilpin Faust (The Creation of Confederate Nationalism), Kolchin has provided a fascinating introduction into the historiography of the American South.  His very readable lectures are extensively documented, giving the reader an introduction into the latest historiography of the region.  Kolchin's first lecture deals with comparisons between the North and the South.  How much did the regions differ and how much did they have in common?  Despite the many debates American historians have had over the last century the answer to this is actually rather simple.  They differed enough to fight a civil war, but had enough in common not to try to fight a second.  Kolchin correctly argues that slavery marked an essential difference between the two regions.  He is very acute in how slavery created a distinct and ultimately weaker Southern economy.  Although southern growth rates in the decades before the civil war was higher than that of the North, the growth rate in every Southern subregion was slower than in every Northern subregion.  The reason for the higher growth rate was that more Southerners moved to the richest Southern region.  Likewise, in urbanization, industrialization, mechanization and education the South was falling further behind the North.<br />Kolchin's second lecture looks at the Many Souths within the South.  What is a typical southern region?  For certain purposes, tiny Delaware or the Mississippi Delta can serve as a useful example.  Kolchin also looks at comparisons within time, over gender, and over age.  He discusses the question of popular support for the Confederacy.  Given that few of the third of the population that were slaves supported secession, Kolchin points out that only in Texas did secession have the support of a majority of the population.  By contrast the much maligned Reconstruction governments were able to win, for a time, majority support.  Kolchin goes on to discuss the differences between and within freedpeople, ex-slaveholders and Northerners.  He also points out how white Southern Republicans consisted of ex-Whig slaveholders leaders and ex-Democrat yeoman unionist voters.  Finally Kolchin's third lecture looks at \\"other souths.\\" He notes the Elkins debate over whether slaves were treated better in Latin America than in the American South.  He looks at the construction of Confederate Nationalism in context.  In a way the essence of Southern nationalism, like that of American nationalism, and soviet nationalism, was loyalty to an idea, as opposed to language or religion.  Jews and immigrant Catholics could be welcomed to the South, as long as they supported the ideology of slavery.  Kolchin goes on to suggest that even if the South had been victorious, it would not have lasted as long as, say, the Soviet Union, given that slavery was its ideological core.  Kolchin then goes on to discuss the similarities and differences between American slave emancipation and Russian emancipation of the serfs.  He points out that one reason freedpeople in both situations were not successful was that emancipation coincided with a generation long agricultural depression.  He also discusses the differences between the two situations.  One of these especially stands out.  Whatever Russian nobles thought of Russian peasants, they never denied that they were the vast majority of the country.  By contrast, African-Americans are often unconsciously viewed as non-Southerners.	2003-07-17
US	52562171	R3LQQ264QGE0F9	0231128827	575056436	The Great Nation: France from Louis XV to Napoleon	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Unfortunately, not a classic	About 13 years ago Colin Jones published a fascinating article in a collection of essays edited by Colin Lucas entitled \\"Bourgeois Revolution Revivified\\".  In contrast to the powerful revisionist historiography of the French Revolution Jones argued that the old explanation of the rise of the bourgeoisie could not be easily ignored.  He pointed out such tendencies as the rise of consumerism, economic growth in both the agricultural and foreign trade sectors, as well as the increase in the bourgeoisie's numbers.  He also looked at certain professions and discussed the rise of a non-noble ideology of \\"civic professionalism.\\"  Jones then followed up this article with a number of others, one of which looked at how the emerging medical profession helped to develop an advertising market, and another looked at the practice of dentistry.  Now Jones has provided the monograph that such articles are usually the prelude to.  It is a largely political history of France which covers the same period as the first volume of Alfred Cobban's 40 year old history of France.  Jones' thesis can be seen in his title.  During this time France was a great nation, did increase its prosperity and had an increasingly self-confident bourgeoisie.  Indeed it was they, and to a lesser extent the peasantry, who were the main beneficiary of the revolution.  France's political history should be seen in its own right, and not simply through from the vantage point of 1799.  The best parts of it detail the same themes as \\"Bourgeois Revolution Revivified.\\"  They do not add much more to them, but we learn about increasing literacy and there is a good chapter on the rise of the Enlightenment.    <br />We also get more detail about the bureaucratic structures and the controversies over Jansenism than in Cobban's work.  Jones also follows the Figes/Schama tendency to spice up his work with interesting anecdotes.  We start off by learning about the dying Louis XIV and the truly horrifying state of his teeth.We learn how many times Louis XV consummated his marriage on his wedding night (seven).  We learn not only that Louis XVI fell under the thrall of his wife during the French Revolution, but that she also beat him at billiards.  On the other hand the book gets few footnotes, and the bibliography, forty years after Cobban, is cursory at best.  Unfortunately, the discussion of the French Revolution itself, which takes roughly the last third of the book, is a disappointment.  There is little new or original here that has not been said by other historians.  Rather strikingly, while Jones gives us a portrait of each of the three monarchs of the time, none of the revolutionaries get the same treatment.  One can only contrast this with Cobban's picture of the Committe of Public Safety.  Moreover, by the end of the revolution the struggles between neo-Jacobin and Directorials, anti-Clericals and Catholics, republicans and monarchists appear to be equally useless struggles between equally fanatical people.  One feels that Europe's first attempt at democratic government deserves more sympathy.	2003-07-10
US	52562171	RD3BOQSPNFO2R	0330491415	531324092	Patriots: National Identity in Britain 1940-2000	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Potopurri	This is an interesting book.  At times it is an amusing book.  But ultimately it is not a successful book.  Richard Weight seeks to discuss national identity in Britain from 1940 to the present day.  He looks at such obvious themes as the wartime experience, and the formation of the welfare state, as well as the British attitude towards Europe and the problem of devolution.  He also looks at such themes as popular culture, racism and the rise of a multiracial Britain, as well as the popularity of soccer and European tourism.  We also get extended setpieces on such topics as the 1951 Festival of Britain, the coronation of Elizabeth II, the funeral of Winston Churchill, and the 1977 Jubilee.  Weight's basic argument is that while a strong national identity existed in the aftermath of the heroic struggle against Hitler and the creation of a new social democratic consensus, this identity slowly weakened.  Devolutionist movements arose in Wales and Scotland in response to economic decline and English tactlessness and condescension.  The aura of the Second World War gradually dissipated, as did the earlier motifs of empire and Protestantism.  As the social democratic consensus collapsed in the economic crisis and mass strikes of the seventies, the attempts of Margaret Thatcher to revive Victorian values ultimately alienated the Celtic Fringe.  Weight concludes that ultimately Scotland will become an independent country, but even if it did so it would not be the end of the world.<br />So far, so good.  And Weight often provides amusing details, such as the National Front leader who was heckled by his own mother.  Or the meeting of military officers during the Suez crisis where the chief began by saying the prime minister had gone stark raving mad.  Or the fact that no-one had bothered to provide Wales with a capital city until the 1950s.  But one should be forewarned.  This is very much a book of its time.  It has a Blairite aura, combined with a certain Scots consciousness.  On the one hand, while dismissive of the Scottish National Party's claims that an independent Scotland would be a prosperous one, Weight does believe that the rise of Scots and Welsh national consciousness is largely the fault of the condescending English.  So much is made of this, one is surprised to read in 1979 of the failure of pro-devolution referenda in Wales and Scotland.  Like the \\"New Labour\\" of today, Weight is very critical of the opposition to European integration and the smug, condescending attitude towards the continent.  He is also strongly critical of the racism of both state and society for the first three post-war decades.  Enoch Powell is straightforwardly described as a racist, the purpose of Harold Wilson's immigration policy is to appease racists, and we hear a number of intolerant comments by powerful people arguing that Blacks and Asians can never become Britons.  (Although African soldiers defended Roman Britain from the Scots centuries before the Anglo-Saxons arrived.)<br />On the other hand Weight does not hesitate to dismiss the Labour Left and left/liberal intellectuals.  The rise of industrial militancy in the seventies has no real explanation, while the most pungent argument Weight makes against republicanism is its lack of popularity.  There is a certain pseudo-populist atmosphere that poisons the book like a dash of arsenic.  Although at one point Weight notes that emigre intellectuals like Berlin and Namier ended up flattering England's self-image of moderation and tolerance, elsewhere he glibly accepts Orwell's exaggerations of thirties intellectuals as unpatriotic cosmopolitans.  Most irritating is the way Weight dismisses any criticism of mass culture, the behavior of English tourists, middle class Thatcher supporters, or that of soccer hooligans as no more than selfish intellectual snobbery.  (He sneers at the New Statesman's dislike of James Bond as \\"predictable.\\")  The climax of this is his indulgent treatment of the hysterical reaction to the death of Princess Diana.  The Princess of Wales had managed the considerable trick of being more selfish and shallow than her in-laws.  Many women have the misfortune of being married to men they do not love.  But notwithstanding their lack of access to one of the greatest fortunes on the planet, many of them do more productive things with their lives than indulge in bulimia or adultery.  It strikes me as perverse that such a woman should be dubbed \\"the People's Princess\\" and obtuse of Weight that he fails to recognize the fraudulence of this position.  (It is also disingenuous of Weight to indulge conspiracy theories suggesting that she was murdered.)<br />There are other weaknesses in the book.  Weight is often careless about facts:  he gets the dates wrong for Julie Christie's \\"Darling,\\" the seasons of \\"Monty Python's Flying Circus,\\" and the publication date of David Cannadine's \\"Class in Britain.\\"  And Camille Paglia is not an American feminist.  There is also a certain lack of proportion.  There is no discussion of the fate of the English novel, probably because the mediocrity of the fifties and sixties would undermine Weight's cultural populism.  There is more about the legalization of homosexuality than the rise of feminism.  Michael Caine become the archetypal sixties British movie star, while the Bay City Rollers get more attention than David Bowie.  Neither William Golding, Anthony Powell or V.S. Naipaul make any appearance at all.  Neither does E.P. Thompson, probably the most influential historian of Britain in this period.  There is only brief mention of the Rhodesian crisis, and none of the 1968 Immigration Act, while discussion of Bloody Sunday is so cursory as to be misleading.  Still, there is much that is interesting in this book.  Some of it is even intelligent.	2003-07-03
US	52562171	RKB6ID66CJ2V2	0674010469	478909804	The Myth of the French Bourgeoisie: An Essay on the Social Imaginary, 1750-1850	Books	2	22	37	N	N	Awash in a sea of confusion	When Sara Maza writes that she is criticizing the myth of the \\"French bourgeoisie,\\" what exactly does she mean?  When revisionists began to criticize the Marxist interpretation in the sixties they argued that the French economy was fundamentally stagnant until the Second Empire.  They argued that there were no deep divisions between the aristocracy and the non-noble elites.  They argued that nobles were fundamentally progressive and open-minded.  Unfortunately for the revisionists it is clear from historians such as Colin Jones and Francois Crouzet that the French economy did not stagnate in the 18th century.  It is also clear from historians like Gwynne Lewis and Timothy Tackett that the French nobility was not smoothly moving toward modernity before chance or ideology stepped in and ruined everything.  Maza does not deny that something we might call a bourgeoisie grew and increased its wealth in the 18th century, that non-noble elites dominated France increasingly after 1789, that businessmen dominated local government after 1789 or that by 1789 there was fierce opposition to aristocratic government.  But we do not have a bourgeoisie.  But in order to make that argument Maza has had to write a book that, while sometimes provocative, is ultimately exasperating.<br />Maza's argument has eight basic errors.  (1) Refuting what your opponents do not necessary believe.  The core of Maza's argument is that the bourgeoisie did not exist because it did not have a coherent class consciousness.  But it is not clear that this is an essential element of the Marxist definition of a class.  Certainly many prominent Marxist historians, such as G.E.M. de Ste Croix, Christopher Hill and Allan Kulikoff reject it.  (2) Non-sequiturs about method.  We can't accept the Marxist picture of the French bourgeoisie, argues Maza, because that is not the way the French perceived themselves.  But should internal acceptance be the measure of accuracy?  According to Maza, we could not use secular or sociological methods to study the Al Qaida phenomenon because Al Qaida does not define itself in secular or sociological terms.  Should we only use sociological terms when there is unanimous acceptance of their meaning and use?  Why should we take elite French ideologues at their own words? After all, the value of pro-slavery or anti-Semitic ideologues in discussing slaves or Jews is strictly limited.  (3)  A certain vagueness.  At several points Maza argues that the term \\"bourgeois\\" is too vague or meaningless to be helpful.  Yet the revisionist term \\"notables\\" does not strike me as an improvement, while one of Maza's favorite terms, \\"the social imaginary,\\" is hardly a model of clarity and detail.   (4) Problems of definition.  Most remarkably Maza never defines what capitalism is, though its non-existence before 1850 is a key element of her argument that the bourgeoisie did not exist.  At times Maza conflates it with industrialism and urbanization.  (Like so much of the Furet school she says little or nothing about the countryside.)  But if 1780s France was not capitalist and it was not feudal, then what was it?  <br />(5) Problems over determinism.  Is Maza's linguistic and ideological determinism really an improvement over the spectre of the economic variety?   At other points Maza's emphasis on discourse cuts it off so much from the real world as to wonder why we should care about it.  Maza argues in the 18th century that there was a consensus that nobles should not themselves in trade, although elsewhere she argues that nobles were forward looking and entrepreneurial.  Elsewhere she notes the many writers who condemned \\"Luxury\\" while luxury's symptoms, an increased consumer market, increased unabated.  If these debates had so little effect why should we grant them so much respect?  (6) Maza shifts the boundaries of debate.  Yes, Diderot supported something he described as bourgeois drama, but many of the drama end with class reconciliation and never withthe slitting of aristocrats' throats.  Later on the aristocrats' throats are being slit, but Maza argues that this represents not bourgeois opposition but opposition to the aristocratic enemy as a whole.  Later still, we read about how the new political elites arranged the suffrage laws to deny the vote to most of the population.  This wasn't bourgeois either, argues Maza, because the representatives still viewed themselves as a united French nation.  Later they did define themselves as bourgeois, but their models weren't industrialists but civil servants.   (7) There is a certain tendentiousness in evidence.  At one point she notes there were those in 18th century France who praised industry and commerce, but they were basically marginal figures such as Montesquieu and Voltaire.  Her discussion of the debate on luxury glomps Catholic moralists and Aristocratic snobs, haters of commerce with people who disliked England, with no attempt to distinguish or clarify matters.  Condorcet and political economists go almost unmentioned while neo-Jacobins and Catholic counter-revolutionaries go unmentioned for decades at a time.  Meanwhile the inequalities and anti-democratic elitism of the Thermidorean and Bonapartist regimes are minimized and evaded.  (8)  There is a final flaw in Maza's argument.  At several points she insists that the non-existent bourgeoisie never achieved the degree of support and consensus that the term \\"middle classes\\" achieved in the United States.  But most modern-day elites seek to define themselves in universalistic terms.  That the Americans are more successful in doing so is less a question of consciousness than one of hegemony.   It is not surprising why this should be the case.  The term \\"bourgeois\\" has the disadvantage of both having feudal origins and elitist connotations which the term \\"middle class\\" does not, while at the same time it is a key term of Marxist analysis.  It is not surprising therefore that it is less prominent on the Frenchhustings.  The creation and articulation of bourgeois ideology is more complex than scholars once thought.  But not so complex that one should throw the term out altogether.	2003-06-26
US	52562171	R2K3GECR9C38KI	052145932X	805208237	The Spanish Republic at War 1936-1939	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Indispensable	This is not an easy book to read, but it well deserves the praise given by Paul Preston on the back cover.  It is indeed the best book written on the Spanish Republic during the Civil war.  Graham's book is a complex analytical account which makes two major points.  First, one cannot understand the history of the Spanish Civil war without recognizing the origins of the divisions among the Spanish Left and the material and ideological background among them.  Second, one must not ignore the impact of the war and in particular how the Republic was slowly crushed by superior Axis aid and the hypocrisy of \\"non-intervention.\\"   Anglo-Americans have often looked dimly on the Spanish Republic.  Whether they are conservatives, liberals, Social Democrats, Anarchist or Trotskyists, they have warmed to George Orwell's \\"Homage to Catalonia.\\"  Orwell presented a compelling portrait of a genuine revolutionary movement that was diluted and betrayed by moderate liberals and by the Spanish Communist Party.  The climax was the infamous \\"May Days,\\" in which the anarchists and quasi-Trotskyist POUM were provoked into a fighting a battle they lost, then persecuted and often murdered.  The Left Socialist prime minister Largo Caballero was replaced by a right Socialist, Negrin.  Orwell's account stops here, but after that Negrin became a tool for the communists and the Soviet Union as they unsuccessfully sought to turn Spain into a Russian satellite.<br />What makes Graham's book so important is that it shows that this story is not true.  It is not entirely untrue, as we will see.  But most important, Negrin was not a Communist.  He was not a puppet, he was not a stooge, and he was not a weakling.  He was fundamentally a liberal who sought to encourage political pluralism and a market economy.  At the beginning of the war he sought, at great personal risk to himself, to prevent the nightly \\"patrols\\" from randomly killing suspected rebels.  He tried to restore freedom of worship in Spain, after revolutionaries had burned many churches and slaughtered much of the clergy.  He opposed proposals to amalgamate the Socialist and Communist parties at a time when many Socialists, who would later denounce him as a Communist puppet, favored the idea.   Contra much received opinion his ascension to power was not a Communist plot.  Originally the Communists simply wanted Largo Caballero to give up the war ministry, where he showed precious little imagination or vigor or competence.  When Largo Caballero left, it was because of the united opposition of the Communists, Right Socialists and Liberal Republicans.   It is true that the Communists murdered Andreas Nin, the head of the POUM, and that Negrin had little choice but to accept this.  And it is also true that security services and military tribunals arrested people arbitrarily or shot soldiers for desertion.  But this was not the realization of the Republic's \\"totalitarian\\" or \\"Stalinist\\" essence, but the desperate struggle of a Republic trying to stay alive at any cost.   Although the POUM was made a scapegoat, the anarchists, liberals, regionalists and anti-Negrin Socialists existed to the end, destroyed not by the Soviet Union, but by the Falange.<br />This leads to a larger problem.  The various forces that made up the Republican government, Socialists, Anarchists, Liberals, Catalan and Basque nationalists and autonomists, Trotskyist and Communists all had vociferous constituencies.  What they did not have was mass mobilization that could successfully prepare the grounds for a fully modern polity or fight a total war.  What political activities they did conduct were marred by clientalism and factionalism.  Largo Caballero had spent much of the thirties posturing and preening as the fighter for revolution.  But when the moment of truth arose, both in 1934 and 1936 he botched it.  Yet he actively prevented more moderate Socialists from working a compromise with liberals that might have strengthened the Spanish Republic.   (We also learn that POUM was not the pure martyr of libertarian communism, but a coalition of moderate and radical left-wingers.)<br />Although Graham is often very critical of how the Negrin cabinet sought to centralize the government at the expense of regional autonomy, or how the attempt to reverse collectivization often made things worse, she reminds us that there was no real alternative to his proposals.  When the Basques were overwhelmed by Franco, their relatively conservative leadership let Basque industry fall into Falangist hands instead of destroying it.  Collectivization was sometimes popular, but it was also sometimes very unpopular.  It had tendencies to autarky and could not provide the food the Republic so desperately needed, especially since much of the collectivized land had never produced that much food in the first place.  And most important, there is the discussion of the final months of the war.  The Republic not only faced imminent defeat, but the slaughter of many of it supporters by the vengeful and cruel Falange.  Negrin's strategy was to fight on, to hope that if they fought on long enough, Britain and France would recognize the need for anti-Fascist unity and try to help them or broker a ceasefire.  As that hope slowly and painfully died, Negrin realized that continued resistance was the only card he had against Franco's vengeance.  But facing imminent defeat many Loyalists believed that if they gave up and sacrificed the Communists they would get a kinder peace.  In this they were painfully wrong.  Once they helped overthrow Negrin and replace him with the military man Casado, Franco demanded, and got, their surrender.  Many of the Casadoists would then be shot by the Caudillo.  At the beginning of the war the British navy on its own initiative rescued many of the wealthy and prosperous inconvenienced by the Nationalist coup.  At the end the British government would not lift a finger to help evacuate people fighting for values that the British Conservative Party thinks it had a monopoly on.  There is a grim power in the final pages as we see the Republic garrotted to death.	2003-06-23
US	52562171	RFQLPOJZM2HAV	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	2	58	102	N	N	Oh, what a lovely war	Christopher Hitchens' latest book is a collection of pieces he has written over the past year supporting the invasion of Iraq, most of which previously have appeared in Slate.  It is not a good book, but it could have been worse.  We do not have to read his argument made last summer that the left should support an attack on Iraq because Ariel Sharon opposes it.  We do not read his indignant denial that the Bush administration might be manipulating the Iraq issue in order to improve the Republican position for the American mid-term elections.  We do not read his castigation of anti-war protesters for ignoring the Rwandan genocide, when in fact in his own vicious polemic against Bill Clinton Rwanda didn't even rate a mention in the index.  (Hitchens apparently felt that criticizing Clinton's failure to save hundreds of thousands of lives was less pressing than to use secret and anonymous testimony to denounce him as a rapist.)  And finally, we do not get to read Hitchens' attack on Nelson Mandela's opposition to the war, where Hitchens sniffed that Mandela had not really demonstrated \\"moral courage.\\"  As opposed to the high degree of moral courage it takes to write for a journal like \\"Vanity Fair.\\"<br />But the evasiveness, slipperiness and moral posturing demonstrated in those examples are unfortunately present in the book.  When it suits his purposes, Hitchens claims that Iraq and Al-Qaida or may be working together or are morally complicit with each other.  When it suits his purposes, Hitchens claims we needn't worry about any Al-Qaida reaction because it was mortally wounded in Afghanistan.  Although he doesn't use the term, he really does seem to believe there is an Axis of evil, not only between Iraq and North Korea, but between Serbia and Al-Qaida(?!).  He criticizes those who argue that the Arab-Israel conflict should be dealt with first on the ground that this gives Hussein every chance to disrupt it, as if the converse gave no opportunities for Sharon to delay.  With deliberate obtuseness he argues that those who criticizes the poor military record of professional hawks like Rumsfeld and Cheney are arguing that no-one should criticize the military.  What is objectionable, of course, is the falseness of those who demand sacrifices of others but never make any themselves, and enthusiastically played Russian Roulette with other people's lives.<br />You would also not know from this book that Hitchens opposed the use of force against Hussein in 1991.  Back then he was willing to give negotiations and sanctions more time.  If he was wrong then, and if he was really the model of fearless intellectual honesty he claims to be, perhaps an apology might be in order to Michael Walzer and Martin Peretz.  Hitchens also argues that Resolution 1441 essentially gave the United States, or more accutately the Bush administration, the absolute right to decide when Iraq was in violation and the complete right to overthrow Hussein.  He praises Bush for going for a second resolution, even though he didn't really need to, (though he makes no mention of the fact that he was only able to convince 3 out of 14 fellow security council members).  Let us assume that Hitchens' intrepretation of Resolution 1441 is the right one.  If so, it means that both he and Bush are using a blank cheque/Gulf of Tonkin resolution to get what they want.  Likewise, there was a time when Hitchens would not have supported Britain or Poland going to war against the majority of their own populations.  But in this case, the people there, and indeed most of the rest of the planet, clearly didn't know what they were talking about.<br />Hitchens speaks of the war in Iraq as one of liberation.  If Muslim fundamentalists oppose it, we should welcome their scorn.  But if this is a war of liberation where are the Muslim or Arab supporters?  Iraqi emigres support the war, so do the Kurds and so does Fouad Ajami.  But from Casablanca to Karachi, from Bosnia to Nigeria, where arethe others?  And if the neo-conservatives cannot bring democracy to the only country in the area they really care about, Israel, why should we believe they will do any better with Iraq?  When it suits him Hitchens has a long, if fuzzy memory.  Twice Hitchens misdates the Iraqi invasion of Iran, six weeks before the American presidential election of 1980, to 1979 so as to get around Jimmy Carter's criticisms.  But there is no mention of how Cheney and Rumsfeld helped to partition Cyprus, or of Wolfowitz's deliberately tendentious work as a member of \\"Team B\\" on the Soviet threat.  But even though the Republicans were wrong on the Maronite Falange, the USS Vincennes, the Pakistani alliance, the assassin of Bernadotte and the butcher of Kafr Kassem, it would be unpatriotic to be critical now.  Regardless of whether one supports the war or not, Hitchens is clearly less skeptical and less informative than his fellow Slate colleagues, or even The New Republic, on such issues as the Al-Qaida link, WMD, the representativeness of Chalabi, or what a post-war Iraq would actually be like.  But then amnesia over this book could only help Hitchens' reputation.	2003-06-12
US	52562171	RLGRXWLDB7ASR	0231123744	532653991	Torn at the Roots	Books	4	12	12	N	N	When Bad Analogies happen to Good People, 3.6 stars	Michael Staub has presented a somewhat unusual book at divisions within American Jews from the fifties to the mid-seventies.  His book does not possess a formal conclusion, but consists of eight chapters and an introduction.  The first looks at the struggle between communists and anti-communists and how they argued over the Holocaust and American racism.  The next two discuss the growing divisions within American over civil rights, and the fourth looks at divisions over the Vietnam war.  The fifth looks again at civil rights, the sixth looks at the rise of Radical Zionism, the seventh looks at debates over family and sexuality and the eighth looks at the brief life of the pro-peace group Breira.  Staub concentrates on especially Jewish movements:  non-Jewish organs such as Partisan Review or The New York Review of Books get little or no mention.  The participants are often theologians and members of explicitly Jewish groups.  Novelists such as Bellow, Malamud, Mailer or Singer get no mention, while Philip Roth is mentioned only in passing.  This appears to me as a mistake, since these writers obviously have a lot to say about Jewish-black and Jewish-feminist relationships, the topic of his book.  Moreover they strike me as far more influential and important than the theological debates and the small groups such as Jews for Urban Justice, the Radical Jewish Union, the Jewish Liberation Project, or even The Jewish Defence League that Staub concentrates on.<br />Notwithstanding these eccentricities, Staub has still produced an interesting book.  Staub?s sympathies are clearly with those who tried to combine their Judaism with support for left-wing activism.  He writes of those minority of Jews who were active supporters of civil rights who invoked traditions of ?prophetic Judaism? to emphasize justice for all humanity.  He is sympathetic to those who seek to support a just peace via a two state solution in Palestine.  He points out those Jews who sought to revive Judaism by supporting and incorporating the demands of feminists and homosexuals.  He writes of those Radical Zionist groups who also strongly opposed the Vietnamese war and those groups who incorporated the style and arguments of the Black Panthers for Jewish purposes.  (He prints a cartoon where a Black Panther is disgusted by one Jew?s lack of enthusiasm for Zionism.)  He also discusses the widespread spread of Holocaust consciousness among Jewish spokespeople at the time.  This is in fact a bit of a problem since the use of Holocaust tropes, such as the ?passivity? of the victims, the ?passivity? of the outside world, the ?treason? of the Judenrat and others by all sides against all sides does have the effect of making the participants look more than a little hysterical and paranoid.  Staub produces enough bad Holocaust analogies to drive Peter Novick and Raoul Hilberg to despair.  A reform rabbi in the seventies states Hitler will have won if Jewish couples do not have four children each by 2000.  Letter writers against integration whine ?Where were the Negroes during the Hitler regime??  Nathan Glazer, who should have known better, snarkily commented that the New Left likes ?final victories and final solutions.?  We get to hear the not-exactly innocent Ethel Rosenberg compare the not-exactly honorable Justice Kauffmann to the Judenrat.  Radical protesters invoke Auschwitz, Vietnam and the suppression of the Attica prison riot on the same sign.  One can go on.<br />But not everyone is equally foolish.  One of the most useful things about the book is the way that it describes the limits of moderate (later conservative) Jewish opinion on civil rights.  For decades Commentary has been arguing that Black extremism and anti-Semitism after 1965 was the cause of the Black-Jewish split.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  Commentary, as Staub shows, was almost always lukewarm towards the cause.  He quotes some stunningly complacent, all honey and butter articles by Elliot Cohen in 1952 and James Rorty in 1954.  He notes the opposition Southern synagogues expressed to actions by their more forceful Northern cousins.  More important, he discusses opposition to ?Prophetic Judaism.?  These relatively conservative Jews argued that liberal activism did not arise from the Torah per se, but instead was simply an internalized liberalism.  They also argued that such activism was faddish, ostentatious in its show of guilt and sympathy and not really attuned to the interests of Jews.  This not only started Commentary?s obnoxious habit of describing every Jew who disagreed with them as deeply neurotic self-hating wimps, inauthentic and insufficiently masculine.  It also evaded questions about desegregation in the north.  Such arguments wrote of ?de facto? segregation in the north as simply a historical accident, a natural reflection of group cohesion, when it would be far more accurate as the systematic effort of both state and society in the North to quarantine blacks into the poorest areas and the least desirable jobs.  We get to see such prominent thinkers such as Norman Podheretz,  Nathan Glazer, Arthur Hertzberg, Oscar Handlin, Marie Syrikin and Leslie Fielder evade the issue and reject integration before Stokely Carmichael weighed in on the issue.  This, along with his discussion of their obtuseness about feminism and how they red-baited Breira out of existence for agreeing to talk with the PLO avant le letter, provides an important perspective for the reader.	2003-06-11
US	52562171	RIB1UWPNYQS0N	0691058067	79697585	Dead on Arrival: The Politics of Health Care in Twentieth-Century America (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Your Money and Your Life	American politicians like to pride themselves on their pragmatism:  Colin Gordon provides the valuable tale of how \\"pragmatism\\" got the United States Health Care system into an ungodly mess.  By 1990 the United States spent 13% of its GNP on health care, while no other OECD country spent more than 9%.  And yet at any given time at least 15% of Americans lack proper health insurance, while much of the insured's coverage is spotty and sacrificed to insurer profits.  The generous system of remuneration practically breeds health care inflation.  As one public relations consultant warned medical conservatives in 1961, the United States was the only major country not to have some form of national health insurance.  He pointed out that if such a system was the high cost, low quality mess the AMA claimed it was, why hadn't conservatives in the 59 countries that had adapted successfully convinced people to change their minds and adapt the American system?  A good question, but the AMA, the insurers, the hospitals and major employers have been alarmingly successful at keeping common sense at bay.  Why is this the case?  <br />Colin Gordon notes contrasting explanations such as American ideological opposition to government assistance, the institutional weaknesses of governmental welfare structures, and the power of anti-welfare capital.  He points out the weakness of the first argument:  national health insurance has always been popular in opinion polls.  And the American government has improved its bureaucratic capacity over the years.  The real problem is that, thanks to the nature of American politics and past mistakes, the forces supporting national health insurance have been weakened and fragmented and have never been able to match the influence of the powerful health care lobbies.  Gordon's book is very well researched.  It relies on 74 sets of private papers and oral histories, including in-depth use of the Johnson and Nixon presidential libraries.  He starts with an overview of the various attempts to achieve health insurance during the Progressive Era and the New Deal, and the thwarted attempts to achieve something under Truman, Johnson, Nixon and Clinton.  He then discusses the way labor unions tried to create a private welfare state, and then discusses how reformers got themselves into endless muddles by trying to use the metaphors of contractual insurance.  He then discusses the ideological themes of national health care insurance's opponents, then the way racism has hampered the health care debate.  Finally he looks at the way the opponents of health care insurance successfully mobilized, while the health care reformers were always checkmated.    The result is a fascinating portrait of selfishness.  We see the AMA and its Republican allies successfully redbait national health care insurance as Communist, Nazi or even tied to the Kaiser.  (One propagandist went so far as to argue the Holocaust wouldn't have happened if Bismarck hadn't socialized medicine.)  We see British doctors, Canadian bankers and The Economist bemused at the AMA's distortion of British and Canadian medicine.  (The AMA responded by preventing local medical societies from investigating British medicine for themselves).  We see Republicans complaining that if the government could provide free health care, why not free toupees?   Racism, sexism, misogyny all play their parts in the private health care's arguments.  We see how they argue that they shouldn't have to pay the cost of keeping African-Americans well.  Their illness and poverty are, of course, their own fault, not that of the doctors who refuse to treat them or the society that seeks to degrade them.  We learn how health care, like welfare, is divided into \\"deserving\\" and \\"undeserving\\" citizens and services.  We also learn how Johnson's officials faced the challenge of segregated and grossly unequal hospitals and promptly ran away.  <br />More important, we also learn about the failed logic of reform.  While there is an understandable constituency of doctors to make as much money as possible privately, there are understandably fewer doctors willing to do what is best for their patients.  In other countries political parties and trade unions would take up the slack, but not in the United States.  As Gordon points out political parties are notoriously difficult to influence in the public interest.  Both parties prefer limited political mobilization, low voter turnout and interest-based organization, rather than make the sustained mobilization national health insurance would require.  For the Democrats, reform was hampered until the sixties by the strength of their authoritarian and reactionary Southern base.  After the sixties the party moved to the right and relentlessly tried to flatter business to support them.  Gordon is particularly good about the failure of the Clinton Health Plan.  For once, doctors, hospitals, insurers and employers had different interests.  But instead of choosing one group, Clinton and his colleagues tried to soothe them all.  They threw away their best asset, popular support for national health insurance and appeals on grounds of universality and equity, for a technocratic solution that could mobilize no-one.  But it was not possible to satisfy everyone since their interests conflicted, and the attempt to do so either annoyed some groups or weakened their lukewarm support.  Gordon goes on to discuss how unions, group health advocates, and people concerned about black health care could have hypothetically pushed for national health insurance.  But unions were too weak to influence a Democratic party hampered by Jim Crow.  In supporting their own private welfare state, they undercut support for universal health care, made further reform more difficult and ultimately put their trust in a system that would be ravaged by deindustrialization and deunionization.  The same problem occurred with group health, maternal health and black healthadvocates, as they supported short-term measures that made fundamental reform impossible.  If the story of liberal reform is one of compromise, Gordon tells the tale of how reformers compromised themselves to death.	2003-06-03
US	52562171	R1T7IDMNIVHYXU	0807827371	561990777	American Orientalism: The United States and the Middle East since 1945	Books	3	46	54	N	N	Ultimately unsuccessful	Nearly two decades ago, Douglas Little appeared on the diplomatic history scene with a monograph entitled \\"Malevolent Neutrality,\\" about the United States, the United Kingdom and the origins of the Spanish Civil War.  Although much of the book consisted of quarrels and squabbles between the US, the UK and Spain over foreign investors in Spain, the book nevertheless had a certain power.  Here was the Spanish Republic desperately trying to preserve its democracy while the US and UK were whining over foreign investment rules, exaggerating Communist and Anarchist influence and imposing the malevolent neutrality of the title.  Now Little has come up with a new book with the promising title \\"American Orientalism.\\"  The book consists of eight chapters which look at American images of the Middle East, America's relationship with Middle East Oil, the relationship between America and Israel, National Security and the Soviet Threat, the Nasserist \\"threat\\", the idea of modernization, \\"limited war\\" in the Gulf from the 1958 Lebanon intervention to the defeat of Afghanistan, and the Arab-Israeli peace process.  The book has certain virtues.  We certainly get more historical perspective than most discussions of the topic.  We learn about the generally condescending and shallow American view of Arabs, usually seen as narrow-minded, backward frustrated fanatics.  We learn about how the American government bent or ignored the anti-trust rules so that American oil companies wouldn't be inconvenienced in their exploitation of Arab oil.  We learn about the long Arab-Israeli peace process, where Israeli recalcitrance and bad faith is as much a problem as Arab terrorism.  We learn about the United States' trust in the \\"white revolution\\" in Iran, and the inevitably bad reputation that occurred when the Shah was overthrown by an angry population.  <br />But ultimately this is an unsuccessful book.  The first problem is one of evidence. Although Little has looked at around 50 collections ofpapers and oral histories, restrictive government policies ensures there is little primary evidence after the Johnson administration.  A more serious problem is that Little can apparently neither speak nor read Arabic.  Stylistically, the chapters themselves, about thirty to forty pages each, are too short for really profound or original discussion of the subject at hand.  Yet at the same time various themes, such as the Suez crisis or the Yom Kippur war, keep recurring, so we get repetitive discussions of these matters which at the same time are incomplete.  For example, he really doesn't discuss Raymond Garthoff and Richard Ned Lebow's stunning portrayal of Kissinger's irresponsibility in the latter conflict.  <br />There is a larger problem with Little's perspective.  He concentrates on government-government relations, about economics and security.  There is little on the details about Arab society.   We learn that when Ayatollah Khomeini first opposed the Shah in the early sixties, the Shah sharply cracked down and killed a thousand people, with American support.  But we learn less about why the White Revolution failed and why the mullahs were the beneficiaries.  Other areas do not get the discussion they deserve.  The Vincennes affair only gets a paragraph, Little's discussion of Israel's attempts to get nuclear weapons peters out in the early seventies, when they almost certainly succeeded, while his discussion of the 1986 attacks on Libya and the Lockerbie bombing in 1988 are surprisingly superficial and conventional.  The discussion of the Lebanese civil war and Israel and America's intervention there tell us appallingly little about its origins.  We do not learn that two great democracies supported the squalid, vicious sectarianism of the Maronite Phalange for the most selfish and ignorant of reasons.  Nor can one accept Little's view that the Americans were as even-handed in the Arab-Israeli conflict as he argues.  For decades Israel has been the United States' main beneficiary of foreign aid, while the United States in the seventies and eighties did much to demonize the PLO as nothing but terrorists.   <br />The most depressing aspect about Muslim societies from Pakistan to Morocco is the way that politics are polarized between corrupt authoritarian governments and religious bigots capable of appalling acts of viciousness.  Little tells us little about how this problem arose, and even less how we should solve it.  He only provides enough to tell us that our glorious leaders have helped to get us this into this mess, but have no idea of how to get us out of it.	2003-05-28
US	52562171	R2TJUM51RHKSJ5	0521823714	393489456	The Holy Reich: Nazi Conceptions of Christianity, 1919-1945	Books	4	47	57	N	N	Christianity-Nazi style	Richard Steigmann-Gall's new book offers an important re-evaluation of German history.  For years scholars have argued that Nazism was fundamentally anti-Christian.  In recent years we have become more aware of the moral failure of Christianity to oppose the Nazis, whether it is over the recent controversies over the Vatican and the Pope, or from the disproportionate support given the Nazis by rural Protestant believers, or from the complete failure of German chaplins to oppose war crimes while assigned to the Wehrmacht.  Now Steigmann-Gall reminds us that the Nazis themselves were not uniformly, or even mainly, anti-Christian.  <br />Steigmann-Gall starts off with telling us that one prominent Nazi war criminal, Erich Koch, was in 1932 the president of a provincial Protestant Church synod.  Other Nazis were also Christian believers, such as William Kube and Walter Buch, the head of the Nazi Party Court, and Martin Boorman's father-in-law.  More typically, many Nazis were believes in \\"positive Christianity,\\" which was fiercely nationalist and anti-Jewish.  Goebbels spoke of the struggle \\"between Christ and Marx,\\" and Hitler spoke well of Jesus (supposedly an Aryan Christ) and The Ten Commandments to the end of his life.  Goering had his children baptized, as well as Goebbels.  These Nazi Christians disliked Catholicism-it was too powerful and internationalist a movement to be incorporated into Nazi doctrine-but at least until 1937 many Nazis were keen with working on organizing the Protestants into a more unified Church.   Nor was this simply a sign of the Nazi lust for power.  There were many elements within German Protestant doctrine that made a rapport with the Nazis plausible-a shared anti-Semitism, authoritarianism, nationalism and pseudo-socialist demagoguery.  Steigmann-Gall, in his discussion of the struggle between the \\"German Christians\\" and the less Nazi \\"Confessing Church,\\" makes good use of his knowledge of the chaos and confusion, the polyocracy of theNazi state.  He points out that many of the \\"German Christians\\" moves were made on their own initiative, not the Nazi Party's, that many Nazis, including Hitler, were opposed to their rashness and crudity, that much of the opposition to their hamhandedness came from loyal and viciously anti-Semitic Nazis from Franconia.  He also reminds us of the fundamental loyalty of most of the Confessing Church.  (No Protestant publicly protested the Euthanasia campaign and one Confessing Church member lauded that only 0.3% of clergymen were non-Aryan.)<br />There was a paganist element among the Nazis from the very beginning, and it continued right to the end.  For much of the twenties and thirties this was personified by the figure of Alfred Rosenberg, whose sinister stare and vicious ideology blurred the fact, as Steigmann-Gall shows, that he was a stupendously ineffective politician and player in the Nazi regime.  Indeed, refutations of his pompous \\"Myth of the Twentieth Century\\" were allowed to circulate freely in the thirties.  Heinrich Himmler was also a powerful \\"pagan\\", and it is striking that both Hitler and Goebbels viewed his nostalgia for the Ancient German Past and his enthusiasm for Occultist and Asian religions as very silly.  As time went on there would be bans on clergymen becoming Nazis, and restrictions on SS members holding Church Office.  But these restrictions also applied to professional pagans.  In the war years, Martin Boorman, the power beyond the throne asserted his own fierce anti-Christian views.  These views seemed to be based, as Steigmann-Gall points out, not on any coherent Nazi anti-Christianity, but on spite towards his in-laws.  Nor was he always successful in his struggles in the Nazi's chaotic bureaucracy.  Goebbels prevented him from having Bishop Galen executed for denouncing euthanasia, and also prevented him from removing religious music from the air.  Even Boorman could not remove churches altogether from his dark plans for the Warthegau.  Himmler's deputy, Heydrich, was also a powerful pagan, but after his assassination his replacement, Kaltenbrunner, eased snooping of Christians noticeably.  Steigmann-Gall makes some important points about Hitler's rage against Christainity.  First off, Hitler was not an atheist, despised atheism and of course despised the Enlightenment Liberalism and Marxist Socialism that are the main sources for modern atheism.  Secondly, one should be cautious about Hitler's \\"Table Talk.\\"  Richard Carrier has argued that it has been unscrupulously translated:  while in English Hitler denounces Christianity as the greatest idiocy, in the actual German it is clear that Hitler's target is transubstantiation.  Steigmann-Gall points out that Hitler had the habit of telling people what they wanted to hear, and his most venomous comments were made in front of Bormann and Himmler.  Third, Steigmann-Gall also makes the suggestion that instead of seeing Hitler's anger at Christianity as a revelation of Nazism's basic antipathy, it should be seen as the bitter rage of a defeated megalomaniac, a rage Hitler also directed at the army, some of his closest associates, and indeed the German people themselves.<br />There is one major flaw with the book.  \\"Positive Christians\\" spoke of getting rid of the Old Testament and described Jesus as an Aryan.  While Anti-Semitism can be compatible with Christianity, these beliefs clearly aren't.  Steigmann-Gall does not really deal with this point.  It is not enough for him to show that many Liberal Protestants had a dim view of Judaism.  The connections he does draw, between the liberal scholar von Harnack's sympathy with the anti-Jewish heretic \\"Marcion\\" are too small and too obscure to bear the weight Steigmann-Gall places on them. Liberal biblical scholarship clearly showed that Jesus was a Jew.  How anyone could have thought otherwise is not something that Steigmann-Gall explains.  Nevertheless, this is an important revision that simply goes beyond what leading Nazis happened to think.  Instead of viewing Nazi anti-Semitism as a new \\"racial\\" variety we can see its continuity with other religious and conservative ideologies.  Instead of viewing totalitarianism as fundamentally anti-Christian we can see it is as similar to other expressions of \\"post-Christian\\" moralisms.  It is, as Steigmann Gall's says \\"much closer to us than we dare allow ourselves to believe.\\"	2003-05-27
US	52562171	R19MYRCLMEVWZM	0393057607	479677526	George Washington's False Teeth: An Unconventional Guide to the Eighteenth Century	Books	3	40	42	N	N	Kind of Bland	Robert Darnton's latest book consists of a series of assorted essays.  Most are from the nineties, though one is from the eighties and one is a reworking of a chapter of his doctoral dissertation in the sixties.  Darnton starts with a defense of the Enlightenmnet, then goes on to discuss information networks in ancien regime France (\\"the eighteenth century Internet.\\")  He then goes on to discuss cosmpolitanism in 18th century Europe, Voltaire and Jefferson's differing ideas of happiness, Rousseau as an anthropologist, the debate in pre-1789 France over the nature of the United States, the Girondin leader Brissot and stock market speculation in the 1780s, and finally an autobiographical essay on his work in the archives and his research on Brissot.<br />The result is a work that is less successful and less interesting that Darnton's two previous collection of essays \\"The Great Cat Massacre\\" and \\"The Kiss of Lamourette.\\"  Only the essays on the Parisian Internet and the quarrel between Condorcet and Brissot on America show new scholarly research.  We see some of Darnton's old themes:  the communication of ideas, the quasi-pornographic Enlightenment Undergound, but little that is new.  The essay on Rousseau is an intelligent, not unsympathetic discussion of his career which looks like it could be a good article for Harpers' (and where in fact it was published in the eighties).  The discussion of cosmpolitanism seems superficially interesting:  in the 18th century publishers spewed out French books from London to Amsterdam to Dresden.  During the Seven Years War Laurence Sterne travelled around France without any concern that the French might object to his presence, while Voltaire personally congratulated Frederick the Great for his victories over Voltaire's king.  But these facts tell us little that would not be already known to students of the eighteenth century.  The same lack of insight hurts his essay on happiness.<br />The title essay in defence of the Enlightenment is definitely the most lively.  Darnton criticizes those who accuse it of such sins as imperialism, Orientalism, Nihilism, Positivism, and Totalitarianism.  He makes some good points but the result is not fully convincing.  For a start, he is not fair to the criticism of Adorno and the Frankfurt School.  They saw themselves not as the enemies of the Enlightenment but as critics, as its loyal opposition.  Adorno himself several times stated that the only cure for the damage caused to the world by reason is more reason.  So while it is true that in our day and age there are no alternative moral criteria than those set up in the Enlightenment, it is also, in Adorno's case, somewhat beside the point.  <br />Another problem with the essay is a certain tendentiousness.  It is all very well to point out Diderot's cosmopolitianism, Voltaire's campaigns against judicial murder and Abbe Raynal's defense of the Indians.  It is vitally important to remember that the Counter-Enlightenment contributed far more to the evils of slavery, misogyny and anti-Semitism.  But the failure of the Democratic Party to treat their fellow Americans of African descent with basic decency cannot be blamed on the heavy weight of the Habsburgs or the Holy Office of the Inquisition.  Likewise, even if one is sympathetic to the Jacobins, one cannot disassociate the Enlightenment from Terror, as Darnton does, simply because Robespierre preferred Rousseau to the Encyclopediasts.  And there is the other side of the Enlightenment.  There is Hume's support of slavery and Kant's indulgence of racism.  Helvetius can be horribly crass nor can Adam Smith be entirely exculpated from those who used \\"The Wealth of Nations\\" as an excuse to let people starve in famines.  And where is Bentham?  Bentham's crass philistinism, his plans for perfect prisons and his having his butler executed for stealing some silverware make him the perfect villian of \\"Discipline and Punish.\\"  He cannot be so easily ignored.<br />Thebest essay in the final one as Darnton recounts how as an archival student he learned by accident that Brissot may have been a spy for the French police while Marat had not been guilty of theft and imprisoned in the 1770s.  At times it is amusing:  when he visited Orleans, the chief archivist, a man named Le Maire, offered to give him a tour of the city.  Darnton's French was so bad then he thought the mayor of Orleans was personally welcoming him.  But as it goes on it is a touching story of how Darnton found out incriminating facts about someone he had once admired and found that he was guilty of crude huckstering and self-deceit.  These days it is easy for people to join the winning side and claim that they were just facing the hard truths.  Darnton's essay shows the real ambiguities such self-righteous bluster hides.	2003-05-17
US	52562171	R1S5LPCR143OF9	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	3	531	660	N	N	Religion:  the New Yorker version	Elaine Pagels started out as a scholar of early Christianity who gained considerable public notice by looking at problems of the early Church and summarizing recent scholarship into long New Yorker style essays.  Her first such book was the prize-winning The Gnostic Gospels, which she followed up with a book on asceticism and free will, followed by a book on the origin of Satan.  Now we have her fourth such book, entitled Beyond Belief:  The Secret Gospel of Thomas.   Pagels main virtue as a writer has been the way that she can inform us, in readable and informative language, of the complexities and paradoxes of the development of Christianity.   This virtue is present in Beyond Belief as well, but we also have snatches of Pagels autobiography.  We learn about her spiritual distress when she learned of the disease that would kill her first child before he was seven.  We learn about her experience as a teenager with an evangelical youth group that ended when her teachers told her that a recently deceased Jewish friend was damned.  These memories segue into the theme of the book.  Oddly enough the subtitle is less informative and relevant than the main title.  This is not really a book about the Gospel of Thomas, but about the alternative, beyond belief, that it suggests.<br />Much of the book arises from the conflict between the Gospel of John, and the Gospel of Thomas, and how the mid second-century figures Irenaeus used John to help draw the lines that would eventually become Christian orthodoxy.  John is the Gospel, more than any other, which asserts the divinity of Jesus.  The other three gospels are noticeably more ambiguous on this point.  Moreover, it is John that emphasizes that belief in Jesus is necessary to salvation.  (Contrast this with the Apocalyptic Discourse that Jesus gives in Matthew before the Last Supper, where belief in Jesus is not mentioned as the key to everlasting life.)   By contrast, the Gospel of Thomas is acollection of sayings, which not only does not mention his Crucifixion, but argues that within each person there is a spark of divinity.   By proper study and self-knowledge we can reach this divinity and understand God.  Such an idea became crucial to the melange of beliefs that we, somewhat unhelpfully, now describe as Gnostic.   Pagels notes how we can see this search for self-knowledge in the Gnostic Gospel of Mary, in the Gospel of Philips assertion that we can all be the beneficiary of virgin birth, and in such ceremonies of the Round Dance of the Cross. <br />It is Pagels belief that John specifically criticized Thomas, either the gospel or his school, not only by refuting his ideas specifically, but also by inserting the figure of Doubting Thomas.  Doubting Thomas only appears in this role in John.  Pagels further goes on to discuss Irenaeus campaign against heresy, which used John as a keystone.  Developing points made in The Gnostic Gospels, Irenaeus had to confront the problem of inspiration.  All too easily, anyone can claim to see a vision of Jesus.  How therefore does one stop the resulting spiritual chaos?  Irenaeus did not wish to ban inspiration altogether.  Instead, he wished to channel it into orthodox channels, by the use of the fourfold Gospel.  At the same time, he also wished to challenge the elitist aspect of Gnosticism, which suggested that for select followers there would be further revelations after baptism.  Pagels is useful in pointing out a number of ironies that arose in these arguments.  Gnostic suggestions of a second baptism have good scriptural precedents in the Bible.  The first commentator on John, or any other book of the New Testament, comes from a Gnostic named Heracleon.  Indeed, Gnostics especially admired John, making Irenaeus task more difficult.   Even worse for Irenaeus, his  three key predecessors in Orthodoxy, Ignatius, Polycarp and Justin Martyr, appear to have made no mention of the Gospel of John at all.  Although Pagels does not demonize Irenaeus, she argues that his search for orthodoxy not only encouraged intolerance but replaced a fruitful and critical search for divine experience with blind acceptance of dogmatic authority.<br />This is an interesting argument, but I have some reservations.  First off, it is not clear when the Gospel of Thomas was written.  Dates range from 50 CE to 200 CE, with strong arguments for an early date made by Pagels teacher, Helmut Koester, in his Ancient Christian Gospels, and with what appear to me stronger arguments for a later date made by John Meier in the first volume of A Marginal Jew.  So any connection between John and Thomas strikes me as rather weak.  More important, there is the subtle way that Pagels adapts early Christianity to the needs and prejudices of her middle-class American audience.  A more open and tolerant Christianity?  A greater sense of experience over dogma?  A greater valuation of feminine experience?  Who could object to that?  Well, it is noteworthy that Pagels does not quote Thomas 114:  For every woman who will make herself male will enter the kingdom of heaven.\\"   And many Christian sects have emphasized ecstatic experience, from Russia to Africa, from Jonathan Edwards to Pentecostals.  Do they really tell us more about wisdom, humanity and truth than, say, Spinoza, Freud or Adorno?  There is something very American, as Christopher Lasch has pointed out, in this cult of experience.  It is all well to search for inner peace.  But what do either John or Thomas have to say about living with other people that Jefferson or Dewew, Marx or Gramsci have not already said?	2003-05-12
US	52562171	R33RC2Q8FYM0CF	1566399963	133788467	The Magic Hour: Film At Fin De Siecle (Culture And The Moving Image)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The fate of cinema	Over the past quarter-century J. Hoberman of The Village Voice has distinguished himself as one of America's finest film critics.  In this collection of his film criticism of the nineties he quotes one of the first great writers on film, Siegfried Kracauer who states that the good film critic can only be a critic of society.  And this is undoubtedly the case for Hoberman, who is fiercely opposed to chauvinism, complacency and militarism that infects so much of American public life.  In this collection we read about the cult of Star Wars, the decline of the American Western in an age of increasing moral uncertainty, as well as the class and ethnic aspects of Quiz Show.  Hoberman devotes a whole chapter to the Clinton presidency.  While looking at such ultimately hollow films as Bob Roberts, Dave, The American President, Pleasantville and The Contender, Hoberman notes the image of Clinton, at one point the image of a new \\"progressive\\" generation and at another the two-minute hate of the Republican party.  In the meantime, the reality of  Clinton's fundamentally conventional, manipulative and conservative persona is ignored.<br />A person opening the book at random may find on a single page allusions to Howdy Doody, Leave it to Beaver, The Beverly Hillbillies, Arsenio Hall, Kenny G and Andrew Lloyd Webber.  One may view Hoberman as simply a kibitzer of names.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  Although witty and amusing, Hoberman is also very serious and very sharp.   He is a dedicated admirer of film and an insightful and appreciative critic of popular culture.  (Who can forget his essays in his previous collection Vulgar Modernism in praise of Krazy Kat and The Honeymooners.)   Yet almost no film critic has higher standards and is less likely to be duped by sentimentality and easy manipulation.  He is a dedicated internationalist, in contrast to the lack of curiosity of not only Hollywood but most film critics.  So in this book he praises such filmmakers as Kiarostami, Sokurov, Wong Kar-Wei, and Ron Havilio.  Looking at his top ten lists from 1991 to 2000, one finds two best picture winners (Unforgiven and The Silence of the Lambs), three best picture nominees, and such unexpected Hollywood fare as Groundhog Day, Dead Man, Portrait of a Lady, The Cable Guy, Boogie Nights, Magnolia and The House of Mirth.  But no other critic has gone out of his way to search out for foreign films that are often criminally unreleased in the United States.  The best pictures of  1993 and 1999 come from the Taiwanese filmmaker Hou Hsiao-hsien.  The best picture of 1994 is from China, while 1995 comes from Germany, 1996 from Hungary, 1997 from the Czech Republic, 1998 from Russia and 2000 from Israel.  At the same time few critics have his knowledge of film history, as we see in his pieces on Fritz Lang, Sergei Paradjanov, Oscar Michaeaux and Vertigo.<br />But let us consider his sharpness as a critic:  Hoberman is witty enough to describe JFK as the most baroque snuff film in American history.  He can point out how Three Kings seeks to become more conventional as it goes along and eventually succeeds.  He notes how in the magical world of Pleasantville, everyone at the end is as white and middle-class as they were when the picture started, except now that they get to have sex as well.  (A verdict, one feels, all too applicable to the United States since the sixties).  Although we do not receive his full review of Titanic we do get a properly acidic paragraph as he notes the contrast between Cameron's profligacy and his sneers at the rich, and at the way he desecrates the tomb of the dead, while demanding a moment of silence for those interred, mostly played by digitalized extras.   He reminds us that The Cable Guy is a far more frightening and provocative film than the fundamentally facile The Truman Show.  One of the problems with Eyes Wide Shut, he notes, is that it has the least interesting musical score of all of Stanley Kubrick's works.   He is always nuanced and complex, as he can criticize A.I., yet praise Joel Haley Osment's performance as the best of the year.  And finally, one must recall Hoberman's review of Schindler's List, probably the most admired film of the nineties.  He points out the essential sentimentality of a Holocaust movie with a happy ending, and contrasts it with Shoah \\"a film about death in which, over and over and over and over, no one ever escapes.\\"  There is a special power in his review's last line, a special power of indignation that is most powerful for being understated.  Spielberg's movie won't upset one's dinner.  \\"It's a tasteful movie.\\"	2003-05-07
US	52562171	RJAQOC3E784PR	0300088140	899090471	In the Image of God: Religion, Moral Values, and Our Heritage of Slavery	Books	3	6	7	N	N	3.3 stars.  Book Review Fever!	David Brion Davis is a leading American historian best known for his superb trilogy on the problem of slavery in western culture.  This book promises us a fourth volume on the problem of slavery in the age of emancipation.  In the meantime we have a collection of assorted articles published over the past fifteen years or so.  Some historians have been able to develop this genre into important works:  one thinks of Perry Anderson's \\"A Zone of Engagement\\" or Eugene Genovese's \\"In Red and Black.\\"  But such works often say little of originality or importance and often have an artificial unity imposed on them.  Such, unfortunately, is the case with this book.  This book consists largely of book reviews, most of which come from The New York Review of Books.  In it we read reviews of such leading scholars as David Garrow, C. Vann Woodward, Eugene Genovese, Bernard Lewis, David Eltis, Robin Blackburn, Herbert Klein, Jacqueline Jones and Brenda Stevenson.  There are also a couple of articles which introduce other, more scholarly articles on the nature of racism.  Arguably these are the most important chapters in the book. There is also a useful piece which demonstrates the important if stunningly obvious point that the Jewish role in the Slave Trade was virtually non-existent.  (In 1830 less than 0.3% of major American slaveholders were Jewish)   <br />Davis' first essay is on the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, and I have to say what one thinks of the book depends on your opinion of that most respected of theologians.  If you think Niebuhr was a man of deep realism and profound theology you will appreciate this book.  If, however, you think that instead of being \\"the American Jeremiah\\" (Davis' phrase) Niebuhr was more the American Tartuffe or the American Vicar of Bray, there will be something off about this collection.  I have yet to encounter any liberal or socialist who has vigorously waved the banner of human perfectibility.  Such technocratic shortcuts to happiness tend to be associated more with the right such as Larry Niven, Robert Heinlein, Edward Teller and Newt Gingrich via Alvin Toffler.  Yet Davis (in the age of Clinton no less!) feels it necessary to warn several times against the chimeras of utopianism and perfectability.  Although elsewhere Davis writes of the need for government aid to solve poverty, his book is enfeebled by the NYRB fear of appearing too liberal.  An article on the relationship between blacks and Jews looks more at the philanthropic activities of Jewish organizations as opposed to the racial views of the Jewish population.  At one point Davis, with some pride, points out that a couple of Jews assisted John Brown.  Yet at another point, in trying to show that C. Vann Woodward was not a sentimental deracinated liberal, he notes Woodward's distaste for those who engage in \\"uncritical worship of fanatics like John Brown.\\"  <br />Davis is a bit too indulgent about Genovese's truly awful \\"The Southern Front,\\" and endorses a misleading point about Southern antebellum tolerance for Jews.  (It is true that the first Jewish senator came from Louisiana, but Louisiana is the least Protestant of the Confederate states and no-one has ever argued that New Orleans is a triumph of the quasi-Calvinist Protestant hegemony that Genovese has recently championed.) Discussing the Moynihan Report he wonders how it would possible to support affirmative action and other remedial programs for Africa-Americans without it.  But this ignores the manifold problems with the report.  By emphasizing the damage slavery had done to the family, Moynihan left the impression that any weaknesses in the African-American family were the result of something that had ended a century and left the idea that the non-Southern majority of the United States was off the hook for anything that had happened since 1865.  At the same time there is the perversity, as pointed out by Ruth Feldstein, of how Moynihan, in an age of segregation, disfranchisment andsystematic discrimination, singled out the weakest and poorest segment of society, black mothers, and criticized them for, in effect, having too much power and having a bad influence.  Similarly, Davis show more \\"realistic\\" Niebuhrian concern about the underclass and its mass unemployment and social disorganization than actual knowledge about it.    <br />The reviews themselves are respectful, intelligent and usually thoughtful expressions of Davis' scholarly liberalism.  But at the same time they do little to advance Davis' own scholarship.  Individually the essays have some value, taken together it is a bit like reading a thirty page historiographical essay extended to 378 pages.  Reading this book you will learn more about recent scholarship on the economics of slavery, the nature of abolitionism and the origins of racism.  Like the readers of the New York Review of Books you will be updated more than you will be informed.  The reviews are only a partial substitute for the monographs themselves.	2003-04-30
US	52562171	R21MW0VS2Q4C6L	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	2	107	137	N	N	Democracy, the insidious threat	Fareed Zakaria is an intellectual whose time has come.  Handsome, foreign-born, a possible candidate for the first Muslim Secretary of State, he has the sort of cachet the mass media love.  His only problem is that he is a shallow conventional thinker with nothing intelligent to say.  But that isn't really a problem for American journalism.  The United States is a country where you can say anything you want.  But being listened to, if you are to the left of Michael Kinsley or Robert Kerry, is another thing entirely.  In the absence of real debate we have pseudo-debate and here Zakaria can shine.  His thesis is that we are threatened with too much democracy.  Rich and wealthy businessmen do not have sufficient power to insulate themselves and the world economic system from democratic pressure.  It's an appalling injustice.  Zakaria does not put his argument quite like that.  Instead he argues that while Americans naturally wish to encourage free elections in the world, those free elections have the unfortunate habit of electing people like Yeltsin, Putin and Chavez.  They would probably elect all sorts of nasty fundamentalists in the Middle East if those countries deigned to have elections.  What these countries need is not more democracy, but more liberal constitutionalism.  This means not merely the rule of law and an independent judiciary, but also vigorous action to encourage the free market economy and open investment.  At the same time American democracy has weakened liberty by unwise congressional reform leading to lobbyists while plebiscites and initiatives have paralysed local government.<br />It is nice to have Zakaria admit, after decades of Republican cant against elites, that it is really conservative economists who would like to form an elite protected from public scrutiny and debate.  But otherwise this is a shallow book.  For a start, Zakaria is a remarkably sloppy writer.  Thessalonica is a city, not a tribe, and the vicious massacre that he cites occurred there, not in Milan.  The National Assembly is confused with the Revolutionary Convention.  The final deal between Clinton and Arafat is dated well into Bush's presidency, while the last Mexican presidential election is placed in the wrong year.  Disraeli's support for the Second Reform Act is placed in 1882, after he had already died.  \\"The masses, Bismarck believed, would always vote for the pro-monarchial conservatives.  He was right.\\"  No, he was wrong:  soon majorities voted for Socialists, Catholics and Liberals.   Zakaria has Saddam Hussein using biological weapons against his own citizens, when he clearly means chemical weapons.  At other times Zakaria is simply tendentious.  In trying to present a relatively favourable picture of Islam as a whole, he notes that the four largest Islamic countries, Indonesia, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India, have all elected female presidents or prime ministers.  He neglects to add that they were all elected because they were the closest relatives of leading male statesman.  Much of his discussion of the origins of democracy is conventional guff about the rise of the Catholic Church, the Reformation, the success of Britain, while the Third French Republic gets only a sentence.<br />More serious are the limitations of Zakaria's picture.  He notes how successful liberal democracy has been after military pro-market dictators in Chile, South Korea and Taiwan.  He forgets that Chile was a successful liberal democracy for decades before Pinochet overthrew it in 1973, and that Sri Lanka has, despite a brutal civil war, been both more democratic and more liberal than South Korea.  Certainly the Germany of Bismarck, von Bulow and Bethmann-Hollweg was more liberal, more democratic and arguably even more capitalist than the South Korea of Colonel Park.  He credits South Korea's progress to its attachment to the market and ignores the special hothouse conditions of the cold war that encouraged its rise  (Japanese investment diverted there from a blockaded China, more American aid than given to all of Africa for a start.  He never asks what the \\"liberal\\" consensus of \\"The New Republic\\" and \\"The National Review\\" has done to deserve Arab support, or, after their support of Yeltsin, Russian support.  Often Zakaria pines for a prosperous middle class, which will bring democracy.  Yes, I remember how we were all inspired in 1980 when the Communist regime in Poland was brought to its knees by the strike of Gdansk shipyard's middle management.  Likewise, COSATU did far more to encourage South African democracy than Paton or Oppenheimer, and one can make the same statement for South Korea, Brazil and much of the rest of the world.   <br />Zakaria blames many of the United States' current problems on excessive democracy.  He blames primaries for destroying the old party elites, but that did not stop them from ensuring the nomination of Bush I, Clinton, Dole, Gore and Bush II.  He ignores the fact that many of the \\"democratic\\" reforms he blames are actually \\"liberal\\" ones, such as The Independent Counsel Act and initiatives against raising taxes (a model Hayekian measure).  Zakaria comments about media vulgarity, but he ignores signs of media concentration and the oligarchic Telecommunications Act.  He blames California's problems on excessively democratic machinery, and not on a ruthless well-organized elite that benefits from an electorate skewed against California's large Hispanic minority.  One would better off reading Mike Davis' \\"City of Quartz\\" and \\"Dead Cities.\\"  Likewise one would be better off reading Lizabeth Cohen on credit cards and Deborah Rhode's \\"In the Interests of Justice,\\" rather than blaming \\"democracy\\" for the fall of legal integrity.   His vision of democracy says nothing about free trade unions, gender equality, social welfare or diversity of public opinion.  And while he might want Alan Greenspan to be Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board For Life, what do the rest of us do if the economy should ever sink?  At the end he twists Woodrow Wilson's famous statement of \\"making democracy safe for the world.\\"   Or for capitalism.  Or for the Republican Party.  Whichever is easier, and more profitable.	2003-04-23
US	52562171	R3LF5OOQM2M33G	0299178641	167942381	Republic of Egos: A Social History of the Spanish Civil War	Books	3	13	23	N	N	3.4 Stars; not the whole truth	In his \\"social history\\" of the Spanish Civil War Michael Seidman provides a grimly fascinating history of the decline and fall of the Loyalist government.  In his introduction Seidman announces that he will bring back the individual.  Instead of concentrating on collectivities such as class or party or gender or region he will look at individuals and their own choices.  There is something vaguely libertarian and Ayn Randian about Seidman's \\"individualism.\\"  Individuals, after all, fall in love, have children, get married, join political parties or churches.  In other words individual men and women can only realize their full potential in working and living with other people.  But for Seidman \\"individualism\\" refers to selfishness, opportunism, cynicism, and apathy.  Although such motives ultimately led to the destruction of the Loyalist cause, one supsects that Seidman believes these were more worthy of our sympathy than the high-handed and bullying abstractions of the Spanish government.<br />There is considerable detail in the book, and Seidman often makes comparisons with the French, English, American and Russian civil wars.  The passages on collectivization are particularly interesting.  During the conflict the Communists argued that the anarchists were forcing people into collectives that they didn't want.  In response the anarchists argued that the Communists were using force to destroy them.  Seidman argues both were right.  He further adds that while some peasants supported them, others, from a variety of rural classes, were less enthusiastic about them.  Some collectives were not successful.  Others were successful but they either were selfishly concerned with their own petty local concerns or they reverted to autarky.  However well they worked on a local level, they were not successful enough on a national level.<br />Seidman's tale tells of a whole host of problems.  Soldiers are infected with veneral disease.  They are passive and unagressive while theirofficers are incompetent and occasionally treacherous.  Desertion is a constant problem, encouraged by shortages of food and clothing, inadequate medical care, and delays in pay.  The Loyalist zone is hampered by hyperinflation, while looting soldiers alienate the peasants and hamper critical offensives.  In response to these and price controls farmers refuse to produce, while workers engage in strikes or absenteeism and show little enthusiasm for the cause.  There are shortages of everything.  Morale is weak, conscription is unpopular and the soldiers it produces are insufficient and unenthusiastic. Corruption and inefficency hamper the cause at every turn.  The Nationalists face some of the same problems, but they are more successful in controlling them.  By the end of the war the majority of the Loyalist zone are willing to accept peace at any price.  All in all, Seidman tells a grim, fascinating story, and the experience is like watching a corpse decay before your eyes.<br />But the \\"corpse\\" did not die until 1939, and that is the key problem with Seidman's account.  (1) Although this book's \\"individualism\\" reminds one of the late Richard Cobb, unlike Cobb this is not a story that looks at individuals per se.  Instead it consists mostly of complaints by central government authorities whose first priority was to win the war.  We do not actually look at specific people, and as such their motives are oversimplified.  People are either militant or opportunist (or worse); they are never people with conflicting interests trying to make the best of an impossible situation.  (2) Seidman's sources consists of archival sources and a large reading of the literature.  But reading the archival notations often provides little or no information on the source.  Was the complaint a reasoned analysis, an intemperate complaint or a partisan polemic?  Seidman only rarely tells us.  There is also a tendency to rely on Francoist historians, such as Martinez Blande or Salas Larrazabal, with their ideological bias only becoming clear as one goes through the book.  And the story stops with the Francoist victory.  How did the cynics and opportunists respond when they faced the starvation and repression so ably delineated by Michael Richards in \\"A Time of Silence\\"?  (3) There is also a problem of cause and effect.  Poor morale, economic collapse, and a disintegrating army are more the result of military defeat than the cause of it.  Which leads us to (4).  Seidman's comparative account misses several key points.  Although the Spanish Right did not have a majority of the Spanish people behind it, it had during the Republic been able to mobilize a large portion of the Spanish people behind it.  This is in contrast to the Russian Whites, where support for non-socialist parties was virtually non-existent among the peasantry, and who consisted of a tiny elite who had to build up everything from scratch.  At the same time the Nationalist had most of the army, superior foreign support and superior air support.  By contrast the legal government was in chaos and had to rebuild everything anew, as we will see in Helen Graham's new book on the war.  Considering these disadvantages, it is surprising that the Republic lasted as long as it did.	2003-04-21
US	52562171	R11ABB49O0L430	067400907X	650519610	Making War, Forging Revolution: Russia's Continuum of Crisis, 1914-1921	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Politics of Procustes	The Russian Civil War was a crucial turning point in the history of the Soviet Union, as it put a premium on brutality, rigidity, scarcity and intolerance to an appalling degree.  Peter Holquist's monograph looks at the Don region.  This was the home of the famed (and infamous) Cossacks, for centuries key military supporters of the Tsarist regime.  Although they owned the best land, they were a minority of the Don population (about 40%), the rest were \\"native\\" peasants and recent immigrants.  Holquist's book seeks to examine the region as a whole from the start of the first world war in 1914, through the agony of impending defeat, to the February Revolution and the October Revolution.  This was followed by a civil war between the Soviet government and the Cossack supported Whites, followed in 1920 and 1921 by Soviet grain requisition policies that led to mass rebellion and mass famine.<br />There are a number of themes in this book, and the first is the Procustean one.  In Greek mythology Procustes owned an inn and invited travelers to sleep on a bed.  Those who were shorter than the bed would be stretched until they fit, while those who were taller than it, would have their limbs chopped off until they fit.  Such was the policy uses by not merely the whites and reds, but by almost all sides in the Russian civil war.  The White/Cossacks viewed themselves as pure Cossacks fighting not only the Reds but local non-Soviet peasants who were assumed to be red.  This was in fact a vast oversimplification.  Many Cossacks showed little interest in fighting or supporting the Cossacks, many of them supported, if not the Bolsheviks, the Soviet form of government.  In turn, many of the White supporters in the Don were non-Cossacks, many of them refugees from the rest of Russia.  In turn, the Reds, grown up on legends of Cossack brutality, had their own abstractions.  The Cossacks, legally an estate, were in early 1920 viewed as a counterrevolutionary sort that had to be exterminated.  This notwithstanding local reports that showed that many Cossacks had supported the Reds.  This lead to the brutal episode of indiscriminate \\"De-Cossackization\\" that led to perhaps 12,000 executions in early 1920 before rebellions forced the Reds to moderate their policies.   Soon Cossacks joined the rest of the Soviets in being fit into the Bolshevik schematic of the peasantry of bad \\"exploitive\\" Kulaks, and good middle and poor peasants whom the Party was supposed to appease.  But then the Soviets, desperately seeking grain, sought to extort incredible amounts from the Don region.  Although the Don was once one of the great grain producing regions of the country, civil war had devastated the region.  It was simply not possible to meet the grain quotas, as local Bolsheviks told their national superiors, and the attempt to do so led to massive famine and rebellion.  The Soviets blamed these rebellions on \\"Kulaks\\" and \\"bandits,\\" but as Holquist shows the rebellions in the Don were led by former Red Army officers and Soviet supporters, who in turn championed their support of Soviets and red revolution.<br />The second theme in Holquist's book is that of continuity.  Before the October Revolution the provisional government had agreed to use force and persuasion to obtain grain and the Whites would use the same policies.  All sides used increased surveillance to achieve its ends; all of them used propaganda and all of them used terror.  Whether Whites or Reds, Peasants or Anarchists, all were willing to burn down villages, carry out executions, summon people's courts, and enforce mandatory labor conscription.  In a way, the key turning point was not 1917, but 1914.  Whereas in 1913 Russian officials scoured 380,000 pieces of mail, by 1915 they were doing a hundred times that in one military district alone.  There is constant comparison with other European countries about the formation of state surveillance, government control of food supply and the impact of military violence.   The specifically Russian path, according to Holquist, was as follows.  Russian autocracy had prevented the growth of civil society outside of the middle class and urban areas.  Middle class liberals tried to work with the institutions of the state before 1917 to remedy this gap and to help the war effort.  After 1917 all sides sought to use the state to bridge the gap between the elite and the vast peasant masses, not simply to give them orders but also to turn them into active citizens who would take the initiative to carry out the orders the elite had already given them.  Not surprisingly, these measures were not successful in producing liberty, prosperity or even large number of enthusiastic supporters.  Nevertheless, as Holquist points, the experience of the pre-war, and the war, made the Manicheanism of the time \\"plausible and even appealing.\\" There are some objections one can make to Holquist.  He argues that what distinguished the Bolsheviks from their enemies was not their practices, but their willingness to use these practices in peacetime.  But since the book ends in 1921 this difference is not as well developed as it could be.  Conversely to this criticism of Bolshevik utopianism, there is less on alternatives to food requisitioning policy.  At one point Holquist suggests that the Russian political spectrum, in contrast to the rest of Europe not only sought state control, but also practiced the unique and destructive policy of seeking to get around market mechanisms of food supply entirely.  But this point is only briefly discussed and not really developed.  Notwithstanding, that, Holquist's work is a disturbing and rather depressing book about a period where hope was not an option.	2003-04-16
US	52562171	R1LTPHH9LBJG4L	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	2	295	416	N	N	Empire:  the British Version	About a decade ago Niall Ferguson wrote an economic history of early 20th century Hamburg.  This got him the respect of his fellow historians, but not lots of money.  In 1998 he published \\"The Pity of War\\" which, while less thoroughly researched, earned him considerable public notice.  Ferguson became one of the most prominent historians in Britain, and he has now published \\"Empire\\".  This book purports to show that the British Empire was an ultimately beneficial endeavour that benefited the world by showering it with the benefits of globalization and free trade in labor and capital.  As such, it is a model the United States should consider as it faces the threat of Al-Qaidya.<br />Empire is not a vulgar apology for imperialism.  Indeed, it is not much of an apology for anything, since argument doesn't play that much of a part in it.  This is a book for a television series, and, ultimately, is not much more than a coffee table book. [It seems] More care has been taken to choose the illustrations than provide a coherent narrative.  What we have basically is a narrative that starts with Sir Francis Drake and then hits the high points up until the Suez crisis. It is very much a \\"great man\\" history.  We learn a lot about Dr. Livingstone and his missionary efforts.  We learn little about the people he converted, or for that matter the vast majority he didn't convert.  We are told that there were racists, but we learn little about racism or nationalist ideologies.  Nor does Ferguson mention the many colonial subjects who immigrated to Britain, and their effect on the country.  Come to think of it, various parts of the empire flit in and out of the narrative for half-centuries at a time, whether it is the Caribbean, South Africa, Canada or Burma.  (And did Ferguson ever actually mention Nigeria, a country whose 130 million people is that of Britain's?)  With its focus on battles and spectacles, this might make an interesting television series, but it adds nothing to our knowledge of the empire.  <br />For a historian known for his enthusiasm for neoclassical economics, Ferguson does not really draw up a balance sheet for empire.  To be fair, it's not that he ignores the dark side. Weren't the Pequots and Tasmanians massacred?  Pretty much, he says. Weren't the Caribbean colonies founded on the vicious exploitation of hundreds of thousands of slaves?  You can't deny that.  What about the Irish Potato famine and the Boer concentration camps?  Pretty bad. Once emancipated, weren't the Caribbean slaves denied political liberty and forced into new unjust economic arrangements?  Yeah, that's not pretty.  What about the Indian famines in the late 19th century that killed anywhere from 12 to 30 million people?  Yeah, that wasn't nice.  What about Imperialist opposition to Home Rule for Ireland?  Ok, that was wrong.  Didn't Baden-Powell, founder of the Boy Scouts, systematically starve the native population of Mafeking so that the white settlers could live out the Boer siege in comfort?  Now that you mention it, that's kind of embarrassing.  There are some interesting details, such as the 6,000 servants for the Viceroy's Palace in India, of whom 50 were employed solely to shew birds away. We aren't told how many people were killed when the British suppressed the Sepoy rebellion in 1857, but Ferguson tells us that they hanged 150 people from one very large tree in Cawnpore alone.  We listen to Anthony Trollope say with pseudo-stoic Tory humbug of the Australian aborigines that \\"it was their fate to be abolished.\\" We learn Hitler's view that if he ran the British Empire he would have Gandhi summarily shot.  Ferguson actually suggests that much of the notorious \\"Thugee\\" murders were not caused by the infamous Kali cult but by demobilized soldiers engaging in humdrum highway robbery. <br />Ferguson tries to make an argument that British rule was good for India.  Irrigation boomed, there were new coal and jute industries. But he also admits that India basically stagnated for two centuries, at a time when British living standards more than quadrupled.  The truth is even worse.  In 1750 India had a quarter of the world's GDP. By 1900 it had only 1.7%.  And its industrial production collapsed. Rather feebly, Ferguson points out that independence didn't help China, although elsewhere he notes British aggression and interference in that country.  (The most outrageous being the Opium wars, in which a Liberal Britain forced China to import narcotics.)  More important he ignores the counter-example of Japan, which is clearly better off for avoiding imperialist rule altogether.  He manages to ignore a whole host of historians of India, such as Parthasarathi, Guha, Sarkar and Hardiman, while the late Christopher Thorne is also missing from his shallow bibliography.  The most Ferguson can say is to suggest that \\"things might conceivably have been worse\\" under native rule.  The same problems occur in his conclusion when he suggests that immigration would have been less without a British empire, though in the 19th century immigrants overwhelmingly went to the United States. We are told that capital exports and free trade are unalloyed benefits, though whether Latin America has ever benefited from Britain and the United States' financial arrangements is very much open to question.  He writes that Britain sacrificed their empire to defeat Hitler and asks rhetorically \\"Did not that sacrifice alone expunge all the Empire's other sins?\\" Leaving aside the fact that Churchill did not know he was making this sacrifice in 1940, I can't help but notice that the Soviet Union sacrificed even more.  Where the British lots hundreds of thousands, they lost tens of millions.  What atonement will Ferguson give them?  So if the British received absolution for their conquests, aggressions, famines and genocides they got it at an excellent bargain.  And it is a bargain that, like so much in the history of the \\"good\\" empire, the British paidwith other people's lives.	2003-04-08
US	52562171	R12C35YDUDGC7H	1573927589	314669665	Deconstructing Jesus	Books	1	94	232	N	N	When rationalists lose their way	How do we know Jesus existed?  Obviously, the four gospels and Paul's letters mention him, but since they are full of amazing miracles, we have to consider the possibility that they are not wholly reliable.  Fortunately for scholars, Jesus' existence is independently verified from the brief mention of him and his brother in the Jewish chronicler Josephus. Although Christians added interpolations to these passages in their copies of Josephus, there is a clear consensus that Josephus wrote the core stating that Jesus was a religious man crucified by the Romans. This is all discussed in considerable detail in the first volume of John Meier's exhaustive \\"A Marginal Jew.\\"<br />Robert Price has written a book that expresses his belief in \\"Jesus Agnosticism.\\"  He is agnostic not about whether Jesus was God, but whether Jesus actually existed.  So what does Price say in response to Josephus and Meier?  Absolutely nothing. So he has provided no reason why we should believe Josephus to be wrong.  That Jesus' followers wrote little about him for four decades after his death is not surprising. There weren't that many of them, most of them were illiterate and they thought the world was going to end soon. Notwithstanding this simple solution Price argues that maybe people combined ideas from Greek Cynicism, Jewish scholars, classical heroes and cults of dying and resurrected Gods and projected them into a quasi-mythical Jesus who lived decades before the Gospel version did.  In other words we are about to embark on a very complicated solution to a non-existent historical problem.  Occam's razor anyone?<br />This is compounded with several fatal problems.  (1) Inadequate sources: In search of \\"independent\\" traditions about Jesus, he spends thirty pages on a Sufi mystic versions of his sayings. The mystic lived ten centuries after Jesus, and obviously isn't independent proof of anything. Likewise Price uses dated authorities like Lord Raglan and Sir James Frazer's overstated theory of \\"dying and ressurrected Gods,\\" (the most popular cult, that of Attis, clearly developed after Jesus). Meanwhile he cites a 1937 book by the discredited Hugh J. Schonfield to try to argue that Jesus lived 100 BCE. (2) Systematic anachronism:  to show that Jesus was a Cynic, he compares verses to thoughts of Seneca and Musonius Rufus, who clearly lived after him. In searching for analogies for the empty tombs he quotes Chariton (first century CE), Longus (c. 150), Iamblichus (c.300), Philostratus (c.220) and Tatius (second century). Clearly the Gospels were not written that late, and so these Greek and Latin sources did not inspire them. (3) Confused comparative method:  there are bound to be similarities in narratives, but this does not prove a common origin. \\"Macbeth,\\" \\"Hamlet\\" and \\"King Lear,\\" are all about monarchs who die because of the perfidy of someone they trusted. But they are obviously not the same story and have no common origin. And so there is no reason to believe that a legend in which the Greek healer Asclepius healed a person while in disguise was the basis of the story of the road to Emmaus. Likewise Price compares Jesus' order \\"Let the dead bury their dead,\\" to several Cynic sayings. But he ignores the obvious difference. The cynics could care less about their corpses, while Jesus states that the Coming Kingdom of God is more important than the duty to bury one's father.<br />(4) Incoherent use of theoretical models:  Price relies on Burton Mack's theory of Jesus and the Q Community as Cynics. But he also agrees with E.P. Sanders' view that Galilee was not a place likely to be open to Cynic (or Greek) influences. Rather than concluding that Mack is wrong, he uses this to argue that Greeks came up with the Q sayings and it was incorporated (how?) into Jewish thought. Price quotes with approval William Wrede's classic account of the Messianic Secret in Mark. But Wrede argued that Mark had Jesus keep his messianic status secret because people knewthe real Jesus had never made such a claim. Such a contortion makes no sense if there was never a real Jesus to begin with. Price also ignores simpler solutions. He uses the ambiguities in the Gospels over who executed Jesus as proof that the actual event was far off in the past. He ignores the more obvious alternative: Jesus was executed by the Romans and the Gospel writers tried to get around this embarrassing fact by blaming the Jews. (5) Failure to explain the Jewish connection: all the early sources of Christianity are quite clear. The early Christians were Jews, not Greek philosophers or members of Pagan mystery cults. That Paul would come up with a theology of atonement to explain Jesus' death is one thing. But given that Jews did not expect a slain Messiash, why would he make up a crucifixion as well? Why indeed would Price's funky group of cosmopolitans try to convince the Jews that this non/barely existent Jesus was the culmination of their religion while at the same time using such ideas such as the Virgin Birth, the Incarnation and the Crucifixion they were most likely to reject? It just doesn't work.w the real Jesus had never made such a claim. Such a contortion makes no sense if there was never a real Jesus to begin with. Price also ignores simpler solutions. He uses the ambiguities in the Gospels over who executed Jesus as proof that the actual event was far off in the past. He ignores the more obvious alternative: Jesus was executed by the Romans and the Gospel writers tried to get around this embarrassing fact by blaming the Jews. (5) Failure to explain the Jewish connection: all the early sources of Christianity are quite clear. The early Christians were Jews, not Greek philosophers or members of Pagan mystery cults. That Paul would come up with a theology of atonement to explain Jesus' death is one thing. But given that Jews did not expect a slain Messiash, why would he make up a crucifixion as well? Why indeed would Price's funky group of cosmopolitans try to convince the Jews that this non/barely existent Jesus was the culmination of their religion while at the same time using such ideas such as the Virgin Birth, the Incarnation and the Crucifixion they were most likely to reject? It just doesn't work.	2003-04-08
US	52562171	R3V1CIA7CWW3MK	067401054X	919753838	When the King Took Flight	Books	4	39	44	N	N	The King's Treason	Timothy Tackett is one of the more curious members of the current generation of French historians.  He actually goes into archives and tries to figure out what people thought and did.  Ordinarily this is what historians do as a matter of course, but under the reign of the Pope of Revisionism, Francois Furet, extensive archival research is replaced with, in the works of Furet, Mona Ozouf or Keith Baker, long analysis of a select and limited number of documents.  Tackett by contrast, after starting with a monograph on Catholicism in particular region, has provided two invaluable monographs based on the fullest research yet to date.  The first was the on the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, while the second was a thorough study of the National Assembly.  In contrast to the Furet school's subtle insinuation that the Revolution was doomed at the outset because the Revolutionaries were dangerously utopians, Stalinist \\"avant la lettre,\\" Tackett shows that the Revolutionaries were reasonable people in difficult circumstances.  For the past few years he has been working on the origins of the Terror.<br />Somewhat to my disappointment, this is not that book.  It is a sort of a preview, as once again we are told about the Flight to Varennes, as Louis XVI sought to flee a hostile Paris and move near the border where loyal troops.  There he hoped to renounce everything that had happened to the revolution since several weeks BEFORE the fall of the Bastille, including he own public oaths of loyalty to the Revolution.  However delays, along with several indiscretions by the King who was supposed to be in disguise, lead vigilant men to realize what was up and to capture him.  The sources for this have all been reasonably available.  We do learn some interesting details, such as the fact that Louis killed 200,000 animals in 14 years of hunting, but this part of the story tells us little we did not already know.<br />What Tackett does tell us is how much this affected the course of the French Revolution.  For years this appeared obvious.  The king tried to subvert his own constitution, and when the Assembly returned him to his throne with the fiction that he had been kidnapped, he and his wife secretly sought to betray their country.  Understandably enough, nothing could have done more to encourage an atmosphere of paranoid conspiracy mongering than the fact that there was a conspiracy against parliamentary government, at the highest levels, and with the support of much of the officer corps and with the sympathy of many noble and clerical deputies, either at home and in emigration.  But recemt writers, such as Simon Schama, have done so much to project the worst elements of the Terror back to the very beginning of the revolution, as well as contrasting the cruelties of mob violence with sentimental domestic portraits of the king with his (adulterous) queen, these points have been blurred.<br />And this is where Tackett's book becomes really valuable.  He points out that there was enormous sympathy and good will towards the monarchy in the first two years of the revolution.  Republicanism was very much a minority taste, most Enlightenment figures believed that republics were not possible in a country the size of France's, and the most prominent supporters of it before June 1791 were relatively marginal before and after the event.  When the king suffered a sore throat in March 1791, pleas for his health flowed in from all over the country.  But contrary to Louis' illusions, this support for the King was almost entirely because he supported the decisions of the National Assembly.  Counter-revolution, although supported by many powerful people, was not a popular movement in 1791.  Once people learned of the King's flight, people often panicked.  They feared foreign invasions, they arrested nobles and clerics who had shown their lack of sympathy with the revolution.  Rather intriguingly, Tackett points out that the panic was strongest in areas whichhad not known the Great Fear two years previously.  Those areas which had were much more skeptical, showing that France did not live in a hothouse of undifferentiated paranoia.  But what did not happen was any movement by the population to support the King's measures against the Assembly. <br />Once the King was caught, documents and addresses came from all over France.  In late June a third were overtly sympathetic to the King.  By Mid-July a sixth were, and by the end of July only a fourteenth were.  As information slowly spread, it became clear that the king had not been abducted and in fact had lied about his loyalty to the constitution.  There were intriguing growths of repulicanism in the countryside which was halted when the Assembly reluctantly decided to keep Louis king in the absence of a better solution.  When the Paris crowds disagreed, the officials violently suppressed a relatively peaceful meeting at the Champ de Mars, killing at least fifty people, and causing bitterness to come.  And all to no avail.  As Robespierre pointed out at the time, how could France be governed by a ruler no-one trusted.  A year later, France would find out that it could not and would not.	2003-04-05
US	52562171	ROYSC6GCA9VVI	0060194766	580560480	Empire: How Spain Became a World Power, 1492-1763	Books	4	36	49	N	N	Empire:  the Spanish Version	To outsiders the history of Early Modern Spain appears as a story of decline.  On the one hand Spain from 1492 onwards was one of the largest empires in history, ranging from Naples to Manilla, controlling much of Germany and Italy, as well as what is now Holland and Belgium.  It was responsible for destroying two great urban civilizations, the Aztec and the Inca, and for shattering the culture and society of an entire hemisphere.  Yet after the defeat of the Spanish Armada the history of the Empire appears to be a slow and agonizing decline, while Spain itself turned from being the feared master of Europe to a poor isolated periphery.  <br />It is the virtue of Henry Kamen's book that he shows this to be an illusion.  Kamen is one of the leading historians of Spain and the last decade has been a prolific one for him, since he has also written an important study of the counter-reformation in Catalonia, biographies of Philip II and Philip V, as well as a revision of his book on the Spanish Inquisition.  In Kamen's new book he shows that Spain was always a poor country on the periphery of Europe.  How then did it dominate much of the world?  The short answer is that it didn't really, and it had a lot of help to dominate what it did.<br />People tend to think that the marriage of Ferdinand and Isabella created a united Spain.  Not true.  What it did was create a system in which the various territories and regions that made up Spain were ruled by a common monarch.  But each region, as well as much of the rest of the Spanish empire, had its own sets of privileges and local assemblies.  No unified Spanish state existed in 1492 and would not for centuries to come.  The result was that Spain had no coherent bureaucracy and could never have formed its vast armies on its own resources and populations.  It relied heavily on foreign mercenaries.  Belgians were crucial to the success at St. Quentin in the 1550s, the Italians for the victory at Lepanto in the 1570s.  The Spaniards made up only a sixth of the soldiers ruling Italy in 1544 Italy.  The Guarani Indians, under the Jesuit missions made famous in the rather inaccurate film \\"The Mission,\\" aided the Spanish 50 times, and successfully fought off, at times, the British, the French, and the Portuguese.  Indian allies were crucial to the conquest of the Americas, while the free blacks also played a vital role.  Financiers from Italy and Belgium and elsewhere funded the Empire.  Columbus was an Italian, with no Castillians on his first voyage, while Magellan was Portuguese.  Spain could never have funded the armies to conquer the Americans.  Instead it made offers that were taken up by ambitious freebooters.  <br />The power of the Spaniards was often weak.  Officially, it had expelled the Jews from Spain in 1492.  Officially, its armies fought to purge Europe of heretical Protestantism.  Officially, it maintained a monopoly on all trade with the Americas.  In fact many Jews stayed on in Spain for decades, in fact many of its polyglot empire were Protestant, in fact \\"unofficial\\" trade with foreign powers was always the norm and by the late 1600s they dominated the trade and kept the empire alive for its own purposes.  Whether in New Mexico, or Peru or the Philippines, Catholicism made only limited and superficial progress, while the colony at Manilla survived only because of the sufferance of China and Japan.    <br />Kamen is not the most interesting writer, but there is much of interest for the reader to find.  One could read this book as an example of early globalization.  Yet one should not think that this was a benign and gloriously cosmpolitan process, as Niall Ferguson argues in his upcoming book on the British Empire.  While books flooded into Spain, the Spanish could not bother to translate English or French works.  Whether in Holland or in England or in France, Spanish officials could not be bothered to learn the local language, even including the ambassadors.  Philip II made in his Escorial the finest European collection of Arab manuscripts, which the Castillians were unable to use or appreciate because virtually none of them bothered to learn Arabic.  Although Castillians engaged in glorious feats of exploration they failed to create a real travel literature.  They did not appreciate the value of tomatoes and beans for decades (though not from a shortage of hungry Spaniards).  One Spanish botanist actually did some major work and wrote an account in the 1570s.  There it remained lost in the Escorial until 1651 when some Italian intellectuals thought of the bright idea of publishing it.   Although many Spaniards were horrified at the Destruction of the Indies and the brutal savagery against Holland, \\"Official\\" Castillian culture was dangerously vain and uncurious.  Throughout the book I thought Kamen made too much of the independence of the Amerindians.  After all when Latin America won independence Spanish was the official language and any indigenista tendencies took second place to Catholic or Secular ideologies.  But ultimately this is not a complacent book.  Kamen not only reminds us that Pizarro exorted 20 tons of silver and gold from Athalupa.  He also reminds us that these 20 tons consisted of priceless sculptures and art which Pizarro thoughtlessly melted down to turn into ignots.  (He also reminds us that most Spanish intellectuals condemned Pizarro's execution of Athalupa as murder.)  The Slave Trade, the extinction of the native population of the Carribean, the horrors of the 30 years war and the war of Dutch Independence; how many people know that in 1603 23,000 Chinese were slaughtered in Manilla by Imperial forces?  As Kamen concludes, for all the \\"glory\\" the Empire brought to some, \\"for very many others it was one of almost unrelieved desolation.\\"	2003-03-27
US	52562171	RGD8256AHKUO5	1403961522	564834110	Italy and Its Discontents: Family, Civil Society, State	Books	4	43	48	N	N	Italy:  the ABC Murders	Paul Ginsborg's previous book, \\"A History of Contemporary Italy 1943-1988\\" is perhaps the best history of the postwar period of any country.  It benefited not only from thorough research and fine organization but from a coherent and compelling thesis.  Despite the many signs of vitality and progress in the Italian Republic, it faced severe problems in government and society which required urgent and farlasting reform.  However, Italian political life was structured in such a way to make sure that reform never happened.<br />\\"Italy and Its Discontents\\" is the sequel.  Although at times Ginsborg is somewhat cheery and optimistic, this is a depressing tale.  In many ways it is a complex and nuanced tale, as Ginsborg discusses with enviable nuance the strengths and weaknesses of the Italian economy, the decline of the industrial working class and the plague of youth employment, the always persistent \\"Southern\\" problem, the clash between mass culture and a rising \\"civil society,\\" and the many weaknesses of the Italian bureaucracy.  He pays particular attention to the changes in the family, the rise of secularism, and the decline of Catholic and Communist cultures.  He also discusses the strengths and weaknesses of Italian politics, the complexities of corruption and the mafia, the less than impartial judiciary, and the complexities and failures of political ideologies. <br />And yet in some crucial ways Ginsborg's tale is very simple.  Italian democracy in the 1980s was severely flawed both by corruption and by the success of vested interests in preventing, delaying or diluting vital reforms.  The most honest and thoughtful party were the Communists, so much of the energy of its political class was dedicated to making sure they never had power.  Italian politics in the eighties and nineties would be dominated by three people:  Andreotti, Berlusconi, and Craxi.  Andreotti was a \\"Christian Democrat\\" and deeply complicit in its corruption, patronage and ties with the mafia.Craxi was a \\"Socialist\\" who drapped himself in fashionable \\"Anti-Marxist\\" rhetoric while taking shakedowns and bribery to new heights.  It was a politics of secret anti-communist forces (the Gladio), murdered anti-Mafia prosecutors, the strange and sinister P-2 Masonic lodge, sycophantic intellectuals, and one demagogic president.  It was also a politics in which the Vatican banker would pay $7 million to Craxi's secret Swiss bank account and then be found hanging a year and a half later from Blackfriars' bridge.  Craxi and Andreotti dominated Italian politics until 1992-93 when revelations of massive corruption decimated the Christian Democratic and Socialist parties.  But just when it appeared that the Italian Left would finally be able to take power, Berlusconi appeared.  Having been granted monopoly control over Italian television by Craxi, and having used that to help coarsen Italian cultural life, Berlusconi simply bought his own political party.  Forza Italia became the new party of the Italian Right, replacing the factionalism and debate of the Christian Democrats with a cult of personality around Berlusconi.  He ostentatiously disassociated himself from the Christian Democrats with Thatcherite rhetoric, notwithstanding the fact that he would face charges on ten trials over the coming decade.  Making deals with selfish Northern Regionalists and Neo-Fascists, Berlusconi decisively won the elections of 1994 and 2001.<br />It is a pretty depressing sight by the end of Ginsborg's book.  Measures to improve women, the environment and education have all been limited or delayed.  Concerns about the gap between formal democracy and everyday life, the presence of clientelistic politics, politics that take into account the modern family:  \\"these seem all to be far down the agenda of government, if indeed they are present at all.\\"  The Democratic Party of the Left has purged itself of its Communist Past, it fears that any sign of prinicple or vigor will be cursed asStalinist.  Instead of the popular mobilizations of the past, it pursues an unimiginative Technocracy that so far can't compete with Berlusconi's media monopoly and demagoguery.  Ginsborg points to some positive signs.  Despite the increasing xenophobia, the crassness of Italian television and the shallowness of soccer culture, there is also increasing interest in literature and culture.  Working-class involvement in political and associational life declined, but there was rising voluntarism.  And most of all there was the rise of feminism, many of whose challenges could not be ignored.  One should not be too optimistic on this score.  Certainly Ginsborg's account is full of qualifications and he notes that the new \\"civil society\\" is limited to a minority of the middle class.  There are good reasons to suspect that it will not succeed or become an isolated minority dismissed as bien pensant elitists.  Much of the chattering classes spent much of the past two decades, when not gushing about Craxi, searching for the \\"normalization\\" of Italian politics.  Leftist and \\"utopian\\" ideas have been purged, while Silvio Berlusconi is now a mainstay of Bush's coalition of the willing.  Now he is to be honored by an American right, once so easily appalled by Monica Lewinsky.  Apparently money can buy you happiness, and much else.	2003-03-21
US	52562171	R3DGGJ9III55P8	0002711192	777935691	A Void	Books	5	5	6	N	N	By G*org*s, '*'s Got It!	Whatever happened to the French novel?  There was the immediate postwar era, when once could read Camus, Sartre's post-\\"Nausea\\" novels, the rise of Jean Genet.  But in the fifties and sixties, the \\"nouveau roman\\" developed, which in the hands of Robbe-Gillet, Sarraute and Butor, sought to deconstruct the possibilities of fictions, and which in the hands of such writers as Robbe-Gillet, Sarraute, and Butor.  The result was very complex and subtle and elaborate, with much on the ontological significance of the novel.  But it was not the sort of fiction that people liked to read, and it left most English speaking critics very cold.  The late Georges Perec was connected to this sort of school, and at least one intelligent English critic has thought that Perec wrote some of the most boring novels of the twentieth century.  This book, however, is manifestly not one of them.  Indeed it's a remarkable hoot, at times quite funny, and throughout consistently ingenious and clever.  What Perec has written is a lipogram, a book which follows a special grammatical rule.  In this case there are no \\"e\\"s in the entire work.  Writing such a book is incredibly difficult, and translating it into another language would appear to be impossible.  Fortunately this is not the case, as Gilbert Adair has demonstrably shown.  There has been at least one lipogram in English that includes no e, and the unimaginative writer, when he wished to have his characters talk, only used \\"said.\\"  Adair, rather helpfully, prefers to use the present tense.  Certain words in French, such as \\"juif\\", \\"mort\\" and \\"Amour\\" have to be replaced with unusual English equivalents.<br />The result is an incredibly strange novel.  At times the sentences are full of proper nouns that exist for no purpose than their e-less nature.  At other times the necessary twists and turns are odd and unusual, and the result feels like you are reading a book of palindromes.  (Another Perec specialty, and he wrote the longest ever, 5,000words long).  But more often there are brilliant flights of baroque fancy, such as the dinner Augustus Clifford prepares for his unfortunate guests on p. 115.  The plot starts with France in chaos, and an insomniac critic Anton Vowl, who goes missing.  His friends find strange notes and letters.  They find his lipogramatic versions of Edgar Allen Poe's \\"The Raven,\\" Shelley's \\"Ozymandias,\\" and Vowl's version of the most famous soliliquoy in English (\\"Living or not Living:  that is what I ask).  But gradually a plot begins to develop, in a way worthy of \\"A Manuscript found in Saragossa.\\"  <br />Can Vowl's friends find out who or what is behind the strange deaths and disappearances?  Who stabbed an Arab solicitor who smoked a cigar in a zoo, and then absconded with his corpse?  What is the secret of the strange ruby-like zahir that brings death to those who mention it?  What secret does a carp named Jonah carry within himself?  Why does Clifford's son, Douglas Haig, die a horrible death while dressed as the murdered father in Mozart's \\"Don Giovanni?\\"  Why is one of the chapters missing?  There is an especially vicious Albanian brigand who who we learn, long after his death, has been particularly humiliated, along with the lust of his life.  But there are important moral lessons as well.  The novel agrees with Jefferson and Danton that primogeniture is a really, really bad idea.  Also, there are certain perversions that one should never undertake, especially when your brother is trying to dynamite you.  And why is the French title of the work the same as the certificates the Vichy regime gave to those inquiring about those deported to Auchwitz, one of those being Perec's mother?  There are strange secret baths, the most incredible revelations, the oddest connections between the characters are revealed, and wealthy Ottomans who are turned into peanut butter sundaes.  There is deliberate anachronism and the solution is not entirely coherent.  But be aware that the villian is not among the characters who in the course of the novel attempt or succeed at murder and manslaughter.  As a novel, \\"A Void\\" is not at the height of Calvino and Garcia Marquez, who provide love, compassion and hope to their magical games.  But this is a better novel than \\"Pale Fire\\" and comparable to Borges and Pavic, a Faberge Egg novel in which something nasty ticks.	2003-03-15
US	52562171	R9XG3LQ0LEUQQ	0375407502	604131806	A Consumers' Republic: The Politics of Mass Consumption in Postwar America	Books	4	38	46	N	N	Consumption and Greed	Over the past decade Lizabeth Cohen has been at the forefront of a new type of American history:  consumer's history.  In this fast growing field historians look at the development of consumption and consumers, both as an ideal and as a reality, and as a new source of identity.  There were reasons to be wary of this trend.  Were economic realities and questions of power going to be ignored in a celebration of growing affluence?  Was the integrity of culture to be ignored in a vindication of mass consumption?<br />Now that Lizabeth Cohen's new book has been published we can see that those reasons were misguided.  This is a thoroughly documented book that is unusually scrupulous in the attention that it pays to problems of class, gender and race.  Cohen starts in the thirties, looking at consumer movements and boycotts, and at two differing ideas of the consumer.  One is the \\"citizen consumer,\\" who is the hero of the book, the consumer who protects his (and very often her) rights and does not placidly accept what businesses deign to give them.  The other, more prominent, consumer is the Consumer as Purchaser, the Keynesian consumer who stimulates the economy by his purchases.   We then go to the war, and see how the government sought to limit price increases with the help of citizen cooperation.  We learn about the many female volunteers, while we also learn that African-Americans, who most needed it, got the least help and the least employment with the OPA.  Then we go to the postwar world where, despite popular support, Congress abolishes the OPA.  Meanwhile the new consensus, the GI Bill, and the boom of suburbia promise a brave new world of abundance for all, or almost all.<br />Although women unions and minorities have used consumption and consumer's rights movement to express their grievances, one of Cohen's major themes is how the consumer's republic failed to break down the hierarchies of society and indeed reinforced them.  Race was the most obvious failure.Although it has been told before, it is still shocking to learn that black soldiers in the Second World War were excluded from stores and restaurants that German Prisoners of War could freely enter.  Cohen also reminds us that shabby treatment of Afro-American soldiers was not merely confined to the South, but to the whole country, including in the West where they were previously non-existent.  This takes us to New Jersey, Cohen's native state.  Although it had public accommodation laws dating back to the 19th century, storeowners often excluded black customers.  Indeed, during the Depression both the Salvation Army and the Red Cross would refuse to help African-Americans in some places.  In what is the tour de force of the book Cohen, based on massive amounts of evidence, discusses the struggles in New Jersey for successful civil rights legislation, and the racial segregation and outright exclusionism of the suburbs (encouraged by consumer prejudice, business practice and federal guidelines).  We learn about New Jersey's selfish politics of localism, how school funding is based on inequitable local taxation, and of the difficult fights to ensure adequate funding for all.  <br />Especially helpful is Cohen's description of the limited effect of the GI Bill.  Most of its students would have gone to university anyway.  The poor found that its educational benefits wouldn't be of much help to those who hadn't graduated from high school or who were looking for vocational education.  Women and African-Americans faced further hurdles in trying to invoke the GI Bill.  They faced outright discrimination, blacks couldn't easily enter the traditional veteran's leagues, and one popular one they did enter was red-baited to death.  Both groups had second-rate status in the army, and African-Americans were given much more dishonourable discharges for criticizing their mistreatment.  Women, for their part, had trouble getting credit cards, and when working women applied with theirhusbands for a Veteran's Administration Loan, the wife would have to promise she was either infertile or would get an abortion if she became pregnant.   Women also had to step aside for returning veterans so that their proportion in one city university fell from 20% in 1940 to 14% in 1947.  Meanwhile, the working class did not vanish in a wash of affluence.  They kept their identity, which was enforced by a certain class segregation in suburbia.<br />Cohen also looks at  the growth of shopping malls.  She discusses how they were isolated from minority populations (one inner-city youth was killed in 1995 crossing a seven-lane highway because the mall were she worked did not allow buses to stop there).  She also points out how they work to limit free speech and distort resources.  She then goes to look at the rise of market segmentation in the fifties and sixties and how advertisers and businessmen concentrated their efforts at specific groups.  She then discusses the rise and fall of the consumer's movement, as Ralph Nader, Rachel Carson and others inspired a great rush of pro-consumer legislation and greater regulatory effort in the sixties.  But the consumer's movement had weaknesses as a truly enthusiastic mass movement, while attempts to institutionalize a consumer's voice in government were defeated in the seventies.  There are some weaknesses in this book.  As a discussion of advertising, it is less stimulating than Jackson Lears' \\"Fables of Abundance.\\"  More could be said about the pernicious effects of advertising for children, including the insane Reagan administration decision to allow the replacement of educational programming with program-length advertisements for toys.  And there is not much about the culture of consumption, a problem that has vexed intellectuals from Veblen to Adorno.  But as an account of how consumerism moved decisively from working for the common good to what is good for me is best for all, Cohen's work has no rivals.	2003-03-11
US	52562171	RQUS3L9KHM62F	1579181147	603439192	A Brief for Belief: The Case for Catholicism	Books	1	5	16	N	N	No, no, no	I am not a Catholic but if I were one this would still not be a good book. Frederick W. Marks is best known as a diplomatic historian, whose books on Theodore Roosevelt and John Foster Dulles were endlessly adulatory, while his book on FDR was unremittingly critical.  These books were unusually tendentious for a professional historian, and that vice has cropped up in his defence of Catholicism.<br />Much of his book is based on Catholic apologies that are six to ten decades old. Many sources are not properly footnoted at all, such as his claim that Pope Clement (d. 98) quoted the Gospel of John or the statements on p. 65 about Jewish connection to usury. Much of his work on the Inquisition is based on William T. Walsh's 65 year old life of Philip II, which has no standing in scholarly circles, and which is anti-Semitic to boot.  His comments on how Christianity improved the Roman Empire ignore every historian on the subject, starting with Gibbon, but also G.E.M. De Ste. Croix, Ramsay MacMullen, and Robin Lane Fox. He asserts that Catholic treatment of slaves was especially generous, and ignores those scholars such as David Brion Davis and C.R. Boxer who have undermined that. A more up to date apologist would note that Eamon Duffy and Geoffrey Parker make arguments about the Reformation which would be more useful than Marks dated authorities. A more literate scholar would have used Henry Kamen's book on the Inquisition. He makes apologetic claims that more intelligent Catholics do not make. For example, even conservative Catholic scholars such as Raymond Brown and John P. Meier are well aware that Isaiah 7:14 does not refer to a virgin birth, and that the siblings of Jesus mentioned in the Bible were not his cousins.<br />There is also a certain sloppiness. Jefferson supposedly supports a bill against Sabbath-breakers that was passed nine years before he was born. The reign of the emperor Hadrian is given as 183, when it was 138. Marcion's heresy is predated by thirty years. And Woodrow Wilson, who died in 1924, supposedly announced a national day of prayer for World War Two.  At one point Marks argues that all great artists and statesman were moral believers. Confronting the counter-example of Wagner, he claims that he had composed all of his major works after his adulterous liaison with Cosima von Bulow. Dead wrong, since he was clearly working on the Ring cycle while conceiving two children out of wedlock, and \\"Parsifal\\" was written after his wedding to Cosima. Elsewhere Marks tries to give the Catholic Church the credit for abolishing slavery in French colonies, ignoring the fact that slavery was abolished by the Convention at the height of the Terror, was reinstated by Napoleon, was allowed by three Catholic monarchs, and was abolished once and for all by the anti-clerical democrats of the Second Republic. And he does not mention that American Bishops criticized Lincoln for issuing the Emancipation Proclamation.<br />One could go on. Although Marks' book is a militant defense of Catholicism, he claims as believers people he would denounce as heretics if they were not secular saints; people such as Jefferson (a deist), Lincoln (not a churchgoer, who almost never spoke of Jesus), Einstein (a socialist) and Churchill. He cites as evidence of Peter's primacy, 2 Peter, unaware of the scholarly consensus that this was the last book of the New Testament to be written, five to seven decades after Peter's martyrdom. He argues, on the basis of no evidence whatsoever, that Peter was widowed when he met Jesus, and ignores 1 Corinthians 9:5 where Paul says Peter brought his wife along with him during his travels. He tries to find a biblical basis for the Catholic condemnation of birth control by arguing that all New Testament objections to sorcery are to contraception. This clearly does not follow. It is one thing to object to contraceptive medicines as sorcery, but the reverse does not follow. And how are condoms sorcery? He givesthe examples of Leonardo Da Vinci and Michaelangelo as examples of celibacy, apparently unaware that both men were probably homosexual. Confronting Isaiah 7:14 he argues that the Greek translation is better than the Hebrew original. He praises the supposedly peaceful heritage Catholicism has given Latin America. He bases this on the supposedly merciful 1954 coup in Guatamela, and does not mention the tens of thousands slaughtered by its ostensibly Catholic elite over the next few decades. The Sadducees are described as \\"theologically liberal\\" when clearly they were theologically conservative in opposing such innovations as a resurrection and the scriptures after the Torah.  All, in all, this is not a very reliable book.ves the examples of Leonardo Da Vinci and Michaelangelo as examples of celibacy, apparently unaware that both men were probably homosexual. Confronting Isaiah 7:14 he argues that the Greek translation is better than the Hebrew original. He praises the supposedly peaceful heritage Catholicism has given Latin America. He bases this on the supposedly merciful 1954 coup in Guatamela, and does not mention the tens of thousands slaughtered by its ostensibly Catholic elite over the next few decades. The Sadducees are described as \\"theologically liberal\\" when clearly they were theologically conservative in opposing such innovations as a resurrection and the scriptures after the Torah.  All, in all, this is not a very reliable book.	2003-03-10
US	52562171	RDS9UEUU641YZ	0674007506	201904001	Diaspora: Jews amidst Greeks and Romans	Books	3	26	29	N	N	3.4 stars; Exile can be fun	Erich Gruen's book on the Diaspora offers a major new reinterpretation of the Jewish experiences from Alexander the Great to the Jewish rebellion of 66 CE.  Historically, both Othodox and Zionist Jews view the diaspora as a curse, whose denizens are perenially threatened by anti-Semitism. Gruen argues a rather different case.  Jews, the vast majority of whom lived outside of Palestine, thrived in the diaspora.  While taking advantages of the symposiums and civic institutions of the Hellenic and Roman worlds, they also established a plethora of synagogues and regularly paid the half-shekel temple tax to Jerusalem.  By examining certain deuterocanonical and apocryphal works of literature, Gruen finds a confident sense of humor.  There was no contemporary angst and agony over the diaspora.<br />It is important to contrast this book with Seth Schwartz's recent \\"Imperialism and Jewish Society,\\" which argued for the weakness of Judaism in Palestine.  Schwartz's book was based mostly on archaeological evidence, and said little about the diaspora.  Except for a discussion of the plentiful arhcaeological evidence for synagogues, much of Gruen's work is based on analysis and interpretation of texts.  These consist of the limited number of comments made by Romans on the Jews; Philo's account of the pogroms in Alexandra c. 40 CE; Josephus' collection of historical materials on Jewish defense of their rights, and discusssions of books such as Esther, Judith, Tobit and other books.<br />It is important to point out the limitations of such evidence.  It tells us little about what the majority of Jews in the diaspora actually did for a living.  We have mentions of the orthodoxy of Jews by Josephus and Philo, virtually the only two Jewish sources we know by name, and we have confirming mention when Romans noted Jewish customs and found them risible.  But Romans and Greeks would not normally find Jewish apostasy worthy of mention, and Jewish sources might not draw attention to it.  Some of Gruen's evidence is convincing.  It probably is anachronistic to describe Roman society as \\"Anti-Semitic.\\"  To use an analogy Romans viewed Jews the way many Americans view Jehovah's Witness or the Amish; with some contempt and as fundamentally amusing, but not with malice.  Gruen is also interesting on Josephus' collection of materials on Asian Jews.  The frequent missives and pleas for support reflect less a constant fear of persecution, than the civil strife of first century BCE Rome, where constant shifts of power led Jews to ask the new rulers to respect their privileges.  There are also interesting insights about sacral and civic institutions:  Surprisingly enough, Philo was a considerable fan of the Alexandrian games.<br />Gruen's chapters on Jewish humor are less succesful.  He starts off well, with a discussion of the many comedic elements in the Book of Esther.  But then Esther is not that important a book, and Purim has always been more of a holiday than a holy day.  But Gruen's discussion of other books, Tobit, Judith, and II Maccabees shows a certain tendentiousness, as he clearly strains to find humor.  In his discussion of Susanna, he makes much of the silences of the text to try to bring humorous ambiguity into the text.  But this ignores a key element of Biblical literature; its terseness.  And when Gruen seeks to find a humorous element in Sarah's rudeness towards her maid in Tobit, he may simply be ignoring the general callousness towards servants and slaves in Hellenic times.  If not well known to Protestants, Judith and Tobit have been considered holy scripture for millenia.  It is one thing to argue that Jews and Christians have misinterpreted scriptures because of their theological biases.  It is another to argue that they can't tell the difference between a didactic tale, and humorous anecdotes.  Gruen also has a tendency to argue from silences and ambiguities in the text.  But the books were not written by modernist authors; indeed they may not have been written by a single author at all, but has gone through a complex series of authors and editings, while working with legendary material.  This leads to a larger problem:  it is not simply that Gruen's portrait of a benign disapora ends before the brutal suppresion of the Jewish revolt, and several other revolts until the 130s.  There is the problem that Gruen portrays a diaspora that is suprisingly similar to the one we have today.  In both times Jews are clearly and distinctively Jewish, supportive and sympathetic of Israel, but at the same time they are also loyal citizens of their countries and active members of the community.  Perhaps.  But there are good reasons to be suspicious of such coincidences; I don't think this is a case of deja vu all over again.	2003-03-03
US	52562171	R30AJZRFJSF2WB	0312268793	758439133	The Road from Versailles: Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, and the Fall of the French Monarchy	Books	4	9	17	N	N	3.7 stars; a provisional grade	Munro Price's history of how Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette confronted the French Revolution comes at a less than propitious time.  In a month from now, we will see Timothy Tackett's book on the Flight to Varennes.  Tackett's previous books have been known for their thorough and exhaustive research, and his newest book may be a stark contrast to Price's which, as we will soon see, is comparatively under-researched.  Nevertheless this book does have something of considerable value.  It has been known that the royal couple were less than thrilled with the Constitution of 1791 and were trying to deal with foreign powers which France was at war with.  But what were their real plans?  Price's book offers some real answers.<br />The answers are convincing because they are not ones that Price is fully comfortable with.  Price's colleague and occasional co-writer, John Hardman, has been the most pro-Louis historian for a couple of generations, even in one book comparing Louis to a saint.  It is well known that Louis' last pre July 14 prime minister, the Baron de Breteuil was given special powers to talk to other foreign powers.  (His letter of authority from the king, was forged, but Price reasonably argues that the Queen was just forcing the pace on her indecisive husband.  The letter would not have worked if it did not represent Louis' views, and the plans for the Flight of Varennes could not have occurred without his knowledge and support.)  But what were Louis XVI and Breteuil planning for France during the Flight to Varennes and the war with Europe?  On at least two occasions the royal couple destroyed valuable documentation, while Breteuil was careful to leave as little information as possible.  However with some diligence Price tracked down the papers of an ally of Breteuil, the Marquis de Bomballes, and found out what the royalists were planning.  The result is devastating to Louis XVI's reputation.<br />Recently several scholars, most noticeably Keith Baker, have argued that by refusing a bicameral legislature in 1789, the National Assembly paved the way to totalitarianism and rejected reasonable compromise.  It is clear from Bomballes' papers that the king had no interest in such a legislature.  Royalists rejected it in 1789, and he and Breteuil rejected it several times in 1791-92.  Louis had no interest in the Constitution of 1791, which he had swore to uphold, or using its mechanisms for amending it.  He did not wish to go back to the National Assembly, but to the Estates General, giving the Nobles and the Clergy certain powers of veto.  He did not plan to compromise with the Assemblies, but seek to use either his own troops to overwhelm them, or use the victory of foreign troops to get what he wanted.  Although often unable to make a decision, these were his basic principles, pushed and prodded on by his wife.<br />This is the most valuable part of the book, and there are descriptions of the Flight of Varennes, the events of August 10 and the battle of Valmy that readers will find interesting.  There are also interesting accounts of the royalist players, such as Breteuil's libidinous activities, and his daughter's affairs with an emigre bishop.  I have some reservations about the book.  (1) There are not that many new sources outside of the Bomballes papers, giving the book a somewhat padded feeling.  (2) Certain counter-revolutionary activities could use more detail.  There is only a brief mention of the affair of the Marquis de Favras, though Barry Shapiro in his book \\"Revolutionary Justice\\" points out that this was a major conspiracy which compromised the king's brother, Monsieur, later Louis XVIII.  Price also briefly mentions a plan involving Danton to buy the royal family's freedom, which I would have liked to hear more about.  (3) There is a somewhat indulgent tone about the royal couple, as Price tries to refute the idea that they were a pair of nitwits.  This is not very convincing, especially since Price believes that Louis did not realize that ejaculation was a necessary condition for conception, while Marie Antoinette's suggestions were almost always unhelpful.  At one point, in writing about the royal couple's last meeting before Louis was sent to a scaffold, Price sentimentally says that the two had found a kind of love, though he has elsewhere said that the Queen was sleeping with the Swedish aristocrat Fersen.  (4) On certain points, like the royal couple's failure to conceive, or Breteuil's attitude towards Necker, Price relies on limited and self-serving sources.  (5) Likewise he is not very acute on revolutionary \\"paranoia,\\" particularly when he has shown that the republicans were right; the royal couple were traitors, and their treason implicated everyone who tried to deal with them in good faith.  (6) Price has the odd tendency to claim that the king could have succeeded if he had just been decisive enough to call on the army.  This is an odd argument, because every time it was considered the soldiers showed signs of mutiny and general untrustworthiness, whether it was at the fall of the Bastille, the Flight to Varennes, August 10, 1792, Lafayette's attempted coup, or Dumoriez's treason.  And this was before they knew Louis' full plans.  (6) Finally this is a history of a select group of individuals.  We learn nothing about monarchist ideology or the royalist press, and we learn nothing about why the king never tried to mobilize public opinion on his side.  The contrast with Britain, as seen in Linda Colley's \\"Britons\\", is rather striking.	2003-02-24
US	52562171	R1BQ1DBTO8G9MT	0810111616	311291983	Kaddish for a Child Not Born	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Isolation	People are vaguely aware that Adorno said that art after Auschwitz is impossible.  But writing in his essay \\"Commitment,\\" Adorno criticized the way that the victims could be turned into works of art, that we could find pleasure from their suffering and death.  Moreover there is something false in pointing out that humanity can bloom in \\"so-called extreme situations.\\"  In searching for the \\"authenticitity\\" of the victim, the line between victim and executioner is muddled.  And while one may point out with Primo Levi that the camp survivors existed in a grey zone, Adorno points out that such blurring is \\"something generally, of course, more bearable for the executioners.\\"  That is the challenge that Holocaust literature has to face.   How does this short, but dense novella of the Hungarian Imre Kertesz deal with the problem?  One way such literature can is to emphasize the humanity of the victims by showing the whole sickening ambiguity of their complexity.  In Aharon Appelfeld this is shown by delineating the moral compromisings of their characters, a complexity linked to, but also independent of, their death camp experience.  For Kertesz it is shown in his narrator's solipsism.  <br />The narrator survived the Holocaust as a child.  Before beginning his monologue he married another Jew, who was born after the war, but later divorced her.  This book was originally published in 1990, the year of Hungary's first fully free elections.  It is actually quite representative of the atmosphere of eighties Hungary in that the slowly dissolving Communist regime does not make much of an appearance.  Instead there is a certain atmosphere of aimless apolitical consumerist hedonism (at one point the narrator dithers over whether to get a house or not).  Nor is there much discussion of the history of Hungarian anti-semitism.  Indeed the perpetrators do not make much of an appearance, which is one way of meeting Adorno's objections.  The title is intriguing.  The Kaddish is the prayer to remember the dead, but the child in the title not only never existed, he or she was never really imagined.  But it is not other people that the narrator is so concerned about, but the memory.  It is a signpost of the narrator's solipsism.<br />The novella consists of long sentences that make up long paragraphs over many pages.  In their style, in their pessimistic content and of the failure of the characters to connect with other people, they are reminiscent of the late Austrian writer Thomas Bernhard, whom the narrator mentions in passing.  The narrator circles around and around the sources of his isolation--his unsuccessful attempts to find \\"meaning\\" about the Holocaust, his inability to come to terms with his father,  his apartness from his wife, his inability to express his thoughts.  The vital point of his marriage, he \\"realizes\\" is that he cannot live in a marriage.  He writes that he and his wife came together on his plans to try to understand the Holocaust, but he \\"realizes\\" that he should never have let his wife enter this private sphere.  His life's work, he decides, is continual digging, digging a grave that others have already started.<br />This is not an easy book to read, and indeed it demands rereading, but one should make the effort.  Kertesz shows a strong talent for metaphor, though his use of it is sparse and sublte.  Writing of the mediocre academic who irritates the narrator by talking to him, he notes \\"The wrinkles of his cynical, happy smile completely swallowed up his narrow eyes.\\"  Speaking of he and his wife's enjoyment in their holocaust discussion the narrator notes that they spoiled it like a child.  Remembering his childhood in a boarding school he speaks of how milk bottles were as fragile as pearls of dew.  There is also a certain wit in the book.  The narrator is told as a child that his parents are divorcing because they do not understand one another.  He finds this confusing, since they both understand Hungarian.  At anotherpoint he and his wife discuss what it means to be Jewish, since none of them have any religious beliefs.  He suggests at one point that a Jew is someone who was NOT sent to Auschwitz. <br />In the end the narrator gives a most peculiar harangue to his wife, that causes his divorce.  At one point he suggest that having a child would show him to be \\"a perverse race-preserver.\\"  Throughout he screams and shouts his complex and meandering sentences.  He links the question of assimilation to his refusal to assimiliate to reality and life itself.  And he shouts that he could not care whether he was a Jew or not, the only thing that matters is the \\"experience\\" he had in the camps.  After that he ponders and makes his final decision.  It is an understandable one in the circumstances, and one presented with great integrity.  If the message of much of Appelfeld's work is to remind us that suffering does not make us a better person, Kertesz reminds us that remembrance itself can be a certain trap, and certainly offers no guaranteed salvation.	2003-02-23
US	52562171	R34MONBTQ1TAAW	0670031739	714966649	Something for Nothing: Luck in America	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Gambling for Grace	This is the third book by Jackson Lears and it confirms his status as one of the most innovative of American intellectual historians.  Like his previous books \\"No Place of Grace\\" about late 19th century conservative intellectuals, and \\"Fables of Abundance\\" about American advertising, his approach is idiosyncratic, and not easily summarized.  His work uses a large amount of literary allusion, so as \\"Fables\\" invoked Little Nemo and examined Henry James and Joseph Cornell, in \\"Something\\" Cornell makes a return appearance, along with Mark Twain, Damon Runyon (of course) and a special examination of \\"Invisible Man.\\"<br />Lears' book is based on a contrast between a \\"Culture of Chance\\" and a \\"Culture of Control.\\"  Naturally, the growth of science has helped to vastly strengthen the latter against the former.  But it is not that simple.  There is a clash between differing Christian, indeed Protestant, views of grace.  Is grace granted unconditionally, freely, like the winner of a game of chance?  Or is it a matter of Divine Providence which, if not saying salvation is earned by merit, does strongly state that the hard working self made man either will get success or deserves the success he gets.  Lears discusses this in a nuanced and subtle reading of the theologian Paul Tillich.  One the one hand he was promiscuous and power-hungry (\\"not an attractive combination, in a theologian or anyone else\\") and his view of grace could be fashionable, dangerously naive and convenient.  But there was something important, that recognized the link between grace and chance.  \\"...Tillich had recaptured a key element in the religion of Jesus...\\"   <br />It is at this point that one must demur.  As a Jew, and as a critical historian I must object to any view that attributes to Jesus the ideas of grace that were developed by Paul, Augustine, Luther, Calvin or by American theologians.  If there is one constant flaw of American Protestantism, both liberal and conservative, whether evangelically Orthodox or Mormon/Jehovah's Witness heterodox, it is to attribute to first century Palestine beliefs which could only have developed in the United States.  Although more sophisticated than most, Lears (and the late Christopher Lasch) fall to this temptation.  Another problem is that Lears does not discuss the flip side of grace.  Damnation can also be awarded freely, and with no right of appeal.  And if most Protestants believe they will be saved, for much of the first few centuries of Protestantism its theologians assumed most of their fellow Christians were doomed, while the non-Christian majority of humanity did not have a chance.  To the extent that American Protestants no longer believe this, it is not simply the result of glib positivism, complacent pro-capitalism or sinister and sentimental \\"therapeutic\\" motifs.<br />\\"Something\\" is also weaker than \\"Fables\\" because it is often repetitive and less coherent.  Nevertheless there is much of value for the reader here.  He discusses the culture of chance in America and its roots among Europeans, Africans, and Indian Americans (rather tellingly, there was a \\"virtually complete absence\\" of cheating among the last group).  Although gambling is often addictive and harmful, and clearly an unjust way of raising revenues, the culture of control's critique is often moralistic, and fatally unimaginative.  There is much discussion of the social pretensions of gamblers, and their tendency to cheat.  Particularly interesting is how the culture of control slowly increased its influence in the 19th century, while at the same time euphemizing or ignoring those trends in science which undermined it.  Chance could be tamed by the scientific study of probability, and later public opinion poll surveys and Tayloristic management.  Darwinism's undermining of conscious design and teleology could be ignored.  But ultimately anthropologists developed more sophisticated understandings of what people had long dismissed as \\"superstition.\\"The crude positivist certainties were undermined as non-Euclidean mathematics and quantum physics arose.<br />The best chapter is the penultimate one, \\"The Persistent Allure of Accident,\\" in which Lears notes the recovery of chance in modernist literature like Joyce and Proust.  We see the influence of Chance in Cubism, Dadaism, and Surrealism.  And we see Chance's sway in Abstract Expressionism, the Beats and John Cage.  But this allure has its own weaknesses.  Lears points out that the risk-taking persona could degenerate into a pose.  In particularly nuanced readings Lears points out that the Beats could collapse into misogyny and solipism, and Cage's work could contribute to postmodernist triviality.  But there was another, more fruitful side in both Cage and the Beats, a theme best represented in Robert Motherwell's desire not to be the slave of chance, but its partner.  If chance and grace are not to by synonoms for solipsism, that we have to remember \\"to recognize the role of other people in the creation of grace.\\"  Now that is a gamble we all have to take.	2003-02-20
US	52562171	RK6Q0W4H2OHEG	0824819179	129036674	Noli Me Tangere (SHAPS Library of Translations)	Books	4	29	33	N	N	A Melodrama of betrayal for a Life Betrayed	The story of \\"Noli Me Tangere\\" is one of bitter ironies.  It is the first major Filipino novel and one of the first novels in Asia written outside China and Japan.  Yet it is written in a European language (Spanish).  It is one of the first novels of anti-colonial rebellion, written by a man who was executed by the Spanish just as the country began its fight for independence.  In many ways the Philippines more resembles Latin America than its Asian neighbors.  Both colonial Philippines and colonial Latin America were dominated by a corrupt, bigoted and dogmatic Catholicism.  Both were colonized (more or less) by Spain and both regions had the same tensions between Spaniards, Spaniards born in the colonies, \\"mixed blood\\" and the indigenous majority.  Both had to suffer the cruelties of a foreign country who looked down at the colonies with contempt.  But Spanish never became the vernacular of the Philippines and after the United States' brutal conquest, only a tiny portion of Filipinos can read the founding novel of their own literature.  To make things worse, the translation of the novel has been cursed with political malice.  As Benedict Anderson pointed out in \\"The Spectre of Comparisons\\" the main translation by Leon Guerrero was compromised in a variety of ways.  For a start Guerrero, like most of the Filipino ruling class collaborated with the brutal Japanese invaders.  Afterwards he was a player in the corrupt, clientele ridden dependent pseudo democracy of the post war years.  Rather hostile to the United States, Guerrero's translation subtly and not so subtly bowdlerizes the novel, blunting not only its fierce anti-clericalism and contempt, but also mangling Rizal's unique, cutting tone.<br />This translation is an improvement, though as Anderson points out, it is by no means perfect.  As such one cannot be sure one appreciates Rizal's cunning, knowing, almost proto-modernist attitude towards the reader.  As a result what we have may look a lot like a melodrama, as Juan Crisostomo Ibarra confronts grotesque injustices while he is falsely accused and cheated out of his love.  Certainly we do not have an exemplar of realism like Rizal's contemporary, Benito Perez Galdos.  One might think that the critique of Catholicism is very, very broad.  The priests and laity are fanatical about Purgatory, and exploit the inhabitants for money for indulgences that reminds me of the endless loyalty oath campaigns in \\"Catch-22.\\"  They denounce modern education and hamper the building of a necessary school, they are so cruel to Ibarra's father that his corpse ends up dumped in a river, they chortle smugly over the damnation of their enemies.  But there is a more cutting satire.  Learning of a pogrom against the Chinese population, one character notes that they gave such good gifts for Christmas.  If only they could have been killed after New Years.  There are elaborate discussions of the many festivals and rituals of the Church that show a real talent for description.  There are some fine scenes about being hampered and cursed by a callous bureaucracy and police.  This is a novel that deserves a bigger audience and a better translation.	2003-02-20
US	52562171	R1KWHQU6356OC5	0805057838	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	3	28	34	N	N	Why Rachel Polonsky is right	Here are some interesting facts.  Russia was so backward in 1682 that the Moscow printing press has published exactly three non-religious works in the past 120 years.  And there was no Russian translation of the Bible until the 1870s.  One of Isaiah Berlin's uncles was tortured as part of \\"the Doctor's plot.\\"  After surviving that horrible experience he saw one of his torturers on the street and dropped dead of a heart attack.  When Tolstoy was excommunicated by the Orthodox Church, the bishop of Kronstadt wrote a prayer hoping for Tolstoy's death, and the prayer was widely reprinted in conservative newspapers.  Count Karl Nesselrode, an aristocrat of Baltic German descent, could not neither write nor speak Russian.  Notwithstanding that minor problem he was Russia's foreign minister for four decades. Russian dolls are not an ancestral Russian toy, but in fact were first developed in the 1890s.  One Russian aristocrat kept his crayfish, not in water, but in cream and parmesan.  Stalin and Prokofiev died on the same day, so the former's death ensured that there would be no flowers for the latter's funeral.<br />Welcome to Orlando Figes' \\"Natasha's Dance,\\" a history of Russian culture more or less dating from Peter the Great.  Clearly his talent for anecdote is the most enjoyable thing about this book.  Figes account starts off with the building of Saint Petersburg, and then goes on to discuss the Decembrists, and the mystical \\"Oriental\\" nature of Moscow.  Then there is a chapter on literary and romanticized views of the peasantry, a chapter on the nature of Russian Orthodoxy, and the Asiatic influence.  Finally there is a chapter on the Soviet experience, and a complementary chapter on the emigre one.  Many readers will find this book fascinating and informative.  Yet a closer look reveals several problems.  First off, this is definitely a cultural history from the top down.  There is much concentration on the aristocratic elite that most of Russia's great artists came from before 1917.  There are many pages on the love and exile of the Decembrist Volkonsky.  There is much Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, Turgenev and Chekov.  There is much about the incredibly lavish and wealthy lifestyle of the Sheremetev family.  Indeed there is much about the incredibly lavish and wealthy lifestyle of the aristocracy as a whole.<br />On the other hand, one would be forgiven the view that the aristocracy was almost entirely responsible for this culture.  Figes discusses the peasantry in some detail, but when one reads his discussion of the pessimistic views of Chekov, Gorky and Bunin, one might well get the impression that the vast majority of Russians did not deserve the culture they were given.  And while Figes discusses the Tatar influence on Russia, he does not discuss the influence of non-Russians who made up the majority of the Empire and nearly half of the Soviet Union.  This is particularly striking in his discussion of Orthodoxy, which to Figes defines the Russian character.  This leads him to make several fatuous comments (\\"The entire spirit of the Russian people, and much of their best art and music, has been poured into the Church...\\"  \\"As Gogol once remarked, the Russians have a special interest in celebrating Easter--for theirs is a religion based on hope.\\"--as opposed to other Christianities, which supposedly aren't).  It also causes Figes to downplay those artists, such as Chagall and Mandelstam, who clearly did not define themselves by Orthodoxy.<br />Even more distressing is Figes' fundamentally conventional views.  Saint Petersburg is Russia's European city, Dostoevsky is spiritual, Tolstoy is foolish, Chekov is sensible, Stalin is cruel.  We get journalistic pseudo-observations such as Figes' comment on \\"The Rite of Spring\\":  \\"In these explosive rhythms it is possible to hear the terrifying beat of the Great War and the Revolution of 1917.\\"  Really?  What we do not have is any particular insight into these works.  To learn that Chekov visited prostitutes or that Nabakov was unforgiveably snotty about Akhamatova is not a substitute for a sustained critical examination of their work.  One cannot learn why Tolstoy is the exemplar of modern prose by poring over his weaknesses.<br />There is a middlebrow exoticism in Figes' book, as he emphasizes Russia's non-European character and the anti-rational side of Orthodoxy.  Although Russian Orthodoxy is hegemonic, Figes also emphasizes that aristocrats wore their religion lightly, which does not explain how Orthodoxy managed to enforce its hold on Russia.  There is a problem with Figes' emphasis on the basic paganism of Russian peasants.  He is unaware that at the time that Kandinsky and Stravinsky were looking for \\"pagan\\" elements in Russian cultures, a similar search for pagan elements can be seen across Europe.  More important, historians such as Peter Brown and Ronald Hutton have argued that much of this continuity was spurious.  Figes' arguments for a greater pagan influence are not much better; common superstitions such as fortune telling and fear of death, as well as Gorky's conversation with a peasant who cannot understand the Incarnation is not sufficient.  Moreover, as the book goes on there is a tendency of padding, with large excerpts from Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhamatova and Tsvetaeva.  There is an interesting discussion of how Russian musicians used folk influences, as well as invented folk influences by borrowing from European musicians, but it is based mostly on the work of Richard Taruskin.  And the emphasis on the difference of \\"Russia\\" from \\"Europe\\" is made easier by more or less ignoring the last few decades of mass urbanization and mass literacy.  Figes' last major work \\"A People's Tragedy\\" was judged, correctly, to be superior to Simon Schama's  \\"Citizens.\\"  By contrast, this work is clearly not on the level of Schama's \\"The Embarrassment of Riches.\\"ov visited prostitutes or that Nabakov was unforgiveably snotty about Akhamatova is not a substitute for a sustained critical examination of their work.  One cannot learn why Tolstoy is the exemplar of modern prose by poring over his weaknesses.  <br />There is a middlebrow exoticism in Figes' book, as he emphasizes Russia's non-European character and the anti-rational side of Orthodoxy.  Although Russian Orthodoxy is hegemonic, Figes also emphasizes that aristocrats wore their religion lightly, which does not explain how Orthodoxy managed to enforce its hold on Russia.  There is a problem with Figes' emphasis on the basic paganism of Russian peasants.  He is unaware that at the time that Kandinsky and Stravinsky were looking for \\"pagan\\" elements in Russian cultures, a similar search for pagan elements can be seen across Europe.  More important, historians such as Peter Brown and Ronald Hutton have argued that much of this continuity was spurious.  Figes' arguments for a greater pagan influence are not much better; common superstitions such as fortune telling and fear of death, as well as Gorky's conversation with a peasant who cannot understand the Incarnation is not sufficient.  Moreover, as the book goes on there is a tendency of padding, with large excerpts from Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhamatova and Tsvetaeva.  There is an interesting discussion of how Russian musicians used folk influences, as well as invented folk influences by borrowing from European musicians, but it is based mostly on the work of Richard Taruskin.  And the emphasis on the difference of \\"Russia\\" from \\"Europe\\" is made easier by more or less ignoring the last few decades of mass urbanization and mass literacy.  Figes' last major work \\"A People's Tragedy\\" was judged, correctly, to be superior to Simon Schama's  \\"Citizens.\\"  By contrast, this work is clearly not on the level of Schama's \\"The Embarrassment of Riches.\\"	2003-02-17
US	52562171	RCOJZHCDWGOY5	0929701615	884563048	Separations: Two Novels of Mothers and Children	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The looking glass fascist	Readers of Martin Seymour-Smith's invaluable, but suprsingly unappreciated, \\"Guide to 20th Century Literature,\\" are aware of certain writers of high talent who have yet to be translated into English.  When Seymour-Smith's book appeared in 1985 these included Roberto Arlt, Jose Maria Arguedas, and Massimo Bontempelli.  Now two of Bontempelli's strange works have appeared in translation.  The novels are strange, it is (or should be) a commonplace that they prefigure magic realism.  Estelle Gilson, the translator, has provided us with a brief introduction.  She does not really discuss the style of the context of the books very much, but she does tell us how this supporter of Fascism criticized its aggressive and beligerent tone in 1938, as well as the race laws.  He had a Jewish nephew who joined the American army and helped to liberate Buchenwald.  He was apparently threatened with death by the Fascists during the Republic of Salo and was elected a pro-Communist senator in 1948, only for his election to be annuled because of his fascist ties.<br />The two novels were written in the late twenties.  \\"The Boy with Two Mothers,\\" is the more openly supernatural of the two.  It is a story of reincarnation, and the title is deceiving since the boy never recognizes more than one mother at a time.  Once the conceit is understood, the novel is less interesting as a fantastic tale, than as the story and determination of Luciana Veracina.  As the mother of the boy before he was reincarnated she is an interesting portait of a strong ruthless woman who will do anything for her child, and for her sense of motherhood, ignoring both the boy's father and his current mother.  She is resourceful, independent, cunning, rather callous towards other people's feelings, and much more impressive than her son's other mother.  One is tempted to see a portrait of a fascist woman, or more accurately the portrait of a fascist as a woman.  And yet women in Fascist Italy are supposed to support Fascist men, not be Fascist men.  And yet that does not fully appreciate the irony of the ending.<br />\\"The Life and Death of Adria and Her Children,\\" is less supernatural, and more interesting.  Adria is not unlike Luciana, but in her case she has dedicated herself to preserving her beauty at all costs, while ignoring her husband and two children.  When she realizes that decline is inevitable she goes to a mansion, isolates herself from all humanity and from all mirrors except one hidden and not to be used for twelve years.  If there is any moral in her story, and the death of her two children (one who both lives and dies as it were) it is not obvious, and not one that Adria ever cares to learn.  The style is more interesing and more memorable:  \\"Boundless vacuity emanated from her singsong lamentation and shone in her suffering, childlike face\\" he says of one character.  Adria is one day on the beach:  \\"She listens to tender words, idiotic words, words as frivolous as flies.  And like swarms of flies, men and women cross the sands, buzzing as they flit to the edge of the sea, holding hands in a line like strings of paper dolls.\\"  In this little known volume, there is a work of an important writer, an undiscovered Italian master as it were.	2003-02-05
US	52562171	R9SOMJNUBPGGD	0394573986	819813809	The Unauthorized Version: Truth and Fiction in the Bible	Books	4	93	103	N	N	The case against an otherwise informative book	Robin Lane Fox is one of the leading classical historians today, known for major works on Alexander the Great and the clash between Pagans and Christians.  And there is much in this book that many readers will find useful and interesting.  Lane Fox starts off right away against those who believe the Bible is reliable history.  He points out the two differing creation stories in the book of Genesis.  He notes how Luke irretrievably muddled his nativity story by tying Herod's reign with a census conducted under Governor Quirinius of Syria, not aware that Quirinius, and the census vital for moving Mary and Joseph from Nazareth to Bethlehem, were separated from Herod by at least a decade.  <br />And then Lane Fox goes on.  He discusses the history of the actual texts and the earliest copies, and how there are in fact thousands of differences.  Most of these are relatively minor, but the last twelve verses of Mark and the story of the women taken in adultery in John were clearly not in the original versions.  We learn about the practice of pseudonymous authors, and we have a long discussion of the claims of the Tanakh or Old Testament, and how they usually do not match the claims of archaelogy or surrounding records.  We learn the interesting fact that no-one in the New Testament quotes the Songs of Songs or Ecclesiastes.  We also learn this amusing anecdote about the plant that temporarily shades Jonah:  \\"Traditionally, the plant has been seen as a gourd, but the Hebrew word is uncertain.  When Latin biblical translators changed it to ivy, Augustine knew of congregations in north Africa who rioted until the gourd was brought back to the text.\\"  <br />And Lane Fox is especially good on how Christians muddled the relationship between the \\"New\\" and the \\"Old\\" Testaments:  \\"When Christians quoted those old prophecies, they used Greek translations which were untrue to the Hebrew originals:  they ran separate bits of a text into one; they twisted the sense and reference of nouns (Paul, at Galatians 3:8, is a spectacular example); they mistook the speakers and the uses of personal pronouns (John 19:37 or Matthew 27:9)...they muddled Jeremiah with Zechariah...they reread the literal sense and found a non-existent allegory...\\"<br />Yet although Lane Fox is an atheist, there are times when he is surprisingly uncritical of the New Testament.  He tries to argue that Jesus was crucified in 36, instead of a far more likely 30.  His argument is that since Jesus died after John the Baptist and John the Baptist, according to Mark, was executed for opposing Herod Antipas' marriage to his half-brother's widow, that marriage must have taken place no earlier than 34, when the half-brother died.  The problem with this argument is that a) Mark gets the half-brother wrong b) Josephus doesn't say John the Baptist's execution had anything to do with Antipas' marriage. <br />This leads to a larger problem.  Against most scholarly opinion, and against most evidence, Lane Fox insists that the Gospel of John was written by a primary source, possibly John himself, and that the Acts of the Apostles was written by a genuine companion of Paul.  Lane Fox's arguments are weak.  He claims that John shows a firm knowledge of first century Judea, which is a) not directly relevant and b) open to question, since John 8:33 has the Pharisees claiming that they have never been captives of anyone, forgetting both Egypt and Babylon.  He sees the references to \\"the other disciple\\" in John and the we passages in Acts as references to the authors, when in the first case they could be a subtle pseudonymous device, while in the second the use of \\"we\\" is a common literary device when characters travel over water, which is where the we passages appear.  One should see Donald Akenson's \\"Saint Saul,\\" for why we can't put our faith in Acts, but there are obvious problems with Lane Fox's account.  If Jesus really said \\"I am the Resurrection and the Life,\\" then all four gospels, not justone, would have it.  John's Jesus emphasizes his divinity, while Mark's, famously, is secretive about being the Messiah, a difference which to me is only compatible with the idea that Mark is an earlier and closer source to the historical Jesus.  Likewise it is questionable to put too much faith in \\"Luke,\\" who not only gets the date of the census wrong, but at the end of Luke has Jesus ascend on Easter Sunday while having him ascend 40 days later at the beginning of Acts.  Lane Fox seems to keep as much of the Gospel accounts as possible, except when they are clearly contradicted by other information.  This is understandable for a historian for whom scarcity of evidence is a constant problem, but it is wrong.	2003-01-30
US	52562171	R3LN5AMNHN9ESQ	0674009274	329942304	Citizens and Citoyens: Republicans and Liberals in America and France	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The book that got too muddled.	Buried within this flawed and schematic book is a valuable point.  Contra to much recent historical discussion one cannot contrast a liberal humane American Republicanism with an illiberal French republicanism that is contemptuous of rights and is infected with totatilitarianism.  There is much within this book that contradicts the facile arguments of Tony Judt and the uncritical worshippers of Alexis De Tocqueville.  This book is based on a historical debate between \\"liberalism\\" and \\"republicanism.\\"  Now these two terms are not, like say, Judaism and Christianity in being clearly distinguished by its adherents.  The concept of \\"republicanism\\" developed in the sixties and seventies from such scholars as Bernard Bailyn, Gordon Wood, J.G.A. Pocock and others who sought to distinguish elements of American revolutionary ideology that made it different from modern liberalism.  These ideas included an emphasis on virtue, community and greater political involvement.  These ideas are to be contrasted with the rights oriented nature of individualist liberalism.  But because republicans can believe in rights and liberals in virtue, it is not easy to distinguish them.<br />Hulliung also isn't very helpful in distinguishing them.  What he does do is criticize those who see in French republicanism an innate hostility to liberalism.  He makes some very important points (1) first off, republicans have praised the rights of man in the first, second, fourth and fifth republics; (2) if the third republic did not possess a declaration of rights in its constitution, that is because it did not have a constitution but a fragile series of compromises composed of an assembly divided between Orleanists, Legitimists and Republicans; (3) A key problem with the reputation of Liberalism within France has been that the self-proclaimed liberal Orleanists, Guizot, Thiers, Tocqueville, Renan and Taine, have been contemptous of rights, universal suffrage, democracy and the people in general.  In combatting their influence, the French Republicans have in effect been preserving liberal values from its self-proclaimed advocates.<br />Unfortunately for the reader, there are a number of flaws with the book.  On the part it is not clear why one should divide the French into \\"liberals\\" and \\"republicans\\" in the first place.  It is not clear why the Republicans aren't liberals, except that particular term isn't popular in France.  Hulliung fails to recognize that there is a gap between the ideology and the term people use to describe it.  In the first decades of the last century moderates and centrists in both France and Czechslovakia called themselves socialists (\\"Radical socialists\\" and \\"National Socialists,\\") even though they were clearly nothing of the sort.  For much of the Third Republic, conservative parties liked to give their parties names that were more liberal than they actually were.  There have always been American Conservatives, but no Tory party in America since 1783.  Hulliung does not seem to appreciate this problem of nomenclature.  Nor does he probe the possibility that differences betweens the Americans and the French may be less ideological than a patriotic, chauvinistic desire to get the credit for spreading liberalism.<br />Moreover, there is a certain facile and misleading tone throughout the book.  In order to challenge modern day scholarly sympathizers with republicanism he conflates their ideas with Burke, who was obviously not a republican (p.5). Hulliung describes the American courts in the seventies as receiving \\"unqualifed praise from the reformers\\" (p.35) which is clearly not the case in the era of the Burger Court.  Likewise American liberals in the fifties and sixties did not uniformly despise the French Marxist school of the French Revolution (p.175) or the Jacobins; Palmer, Darnton and Woloch were rather sympathetic to their aims and goals, and even Alfred Cobban praised the Committee of Public Safety's energy and competence.  It isnot very obvious why George Fitzhugh is described as a Republican (p. 167), since his contribution to American thought was to declare that slavery was not just good for black people, but for all labourers (p. 167).  The chapter on \\"The Uses of Republican Rhetoric in America,\\" (92-127) describes all sorts of populist rhetoric, whether Whigs or Jacksonians, Populists or Henry Cabot Lodge, from Tom Hayden to Irving Kristol, while leaving the idea that they were all equally unreal.  Hulliung criticizes Tocqueville for sneering at democratic culture (p 131) and in particular for ignoring Melville And Fenimore Cooper.  This strikes me as unfair as Melville first published a decade after Tocqueville visited the United States, while Fenimore Cooper is just, well, awful.  By the end, Hulliung has fallen victim to a fatal case of muddledness.	2003-01-24
US	52562171	RPCXADB5EWY63	0195219260	730438520	In Churchill's Shadow: Confronting the Past in Modern Britain	Books	3	23	24	N	N	The difference between realism and complacency	Historians, if they are unusually lucky and popular, sometimes publish collections of essays between major monographs.  David Cannadine is lucky enough to do this is two distinct genres.  The first are the collection of reviews and journalism \\"The Pleasures of the Past,\\" and \\"History in Our Time.\\"  The second are the collections of more scholarly essays \\"Aspects of Aristocracy,\\" and this book.  Unfortunately for the reader, this voume is the most disappointing of the four books.<br />Notwithstanding the title and the prominent photograph of Churchill on the cover page, this book is not really about Churchill, who is the subject of only three of the book's twelve essays.  Already this book does not have the coherence that united \\"Aspects of Aristocracy,\\" with its intimation of aristorcratic power and decline.  What do we have?  The book consists of three quartets of essays.  The first one supposedly deals with Churchill, but the first essay is really a history of Parliament, and the second discusses Churchill along with Margaret Thatcher and Joseph Chamberlain.  The third essay is more informative, as it deals with Churchill's ambiguous relationship with the monarchy, and its actual unimiginative rulers.  The fourth essay is even better, as it discusses both the strengths of Churchill's remarkable oratory, but also its weaknesses, such as its lack of nuance or pitch, so that Hitler and Gandhi appear to be equally dangerous to Britain.  The next quartet is less interesting.  The essays on the decline and fall of the Chamberlain dynasty in Birmingham and the success of Stanley Baldwin's emollient pseudo-rural imagery tell nothing particularly new.  An essay on Josiah Wedgewood tells how he wanted to produced a history of parliament, ignored all the historians, and got a work of limited historical value or accuracy.  The chapter on correspondence between two historians, one English, one American, which led to a letter of somewhat limited importance being sent to FDR, seems like filler.<br />The last quartet is most useful.  True, the chapter on the National Trust is somewhat disappointing.  Cannadine describes it as it moves from a group with liberal and radical origins to a pilar of the establishment whose main purpose is to allow indebted aristocrats to keep their country houses by opening them to the public.  I cannot help but point out that the late Raphael Samuel's \\"Theatres of Memory,\\" was much more stimulating about this topic.  The other three chapters are much better.  Cannadine discusses the success of Gilbert and Sullivan in the context of its rather conservative, chauvinistic and increasingly unsatirical style, while benefiting from the invention of traditions in the last quarter of the 19th century.  Cannadine also produces a useful chapter on the decline of Noel Coward, whining endlessly about the decline of the empire and the end of the welfare as his talent dribbled away on sentimental pieces.  (It is alarming that Cannadine quotes so much, and that none of it is funny.)  Finally there is Cannadine's fine essay on Ian Fleiming and James Bond, which is better than Alexander Cockburn's essay in \\"Corruptions of Empire\\" and much better than recent commentaries by Christopher Hitchens and Anthony Lane, and really shows how childish the whole James Bond phenonemon is.  Cannadine is excellent on the double side of Fleming/Bond:  on the one side \\"apolitically\\" conservative, xenophobic, chivalric and so patriotic as to laud British cooking above all others.  On the other side both Fleming and his creation are promiscuous, they drink and they gamble and they show an alarming infatuation with consumer goods.  <br />Ultimately though, this is a disappointing volume.  Many of his reviews and articles in the past were unusually vigorous and vital in pointing out the flaws and mediocrity of the British royal family.  So it is most disturbing to find on the chapter of parliament that Cannadine thinks it would be too radical for the Prime Minister to give \\"the speech from the throne,\\" let alone call for an actual republic.  Likewise, the chapter on Stanley Baldwin does not really dissect the Uriah Heep like quality of the way Baldwin promoted his reputation for moral conduct.  The fact that Baldwin and Chamberlain were the worst British prime ministers of the 20th century, that they nearly led Britain to defeat in the one war that it could not afford to lose, does not really get sufficient emphasis, or disgust, from Cannadine.  Finally on the chapter on Joseph Chamberlain, Churchill and Thatcher and the prospect of British decline, Cannadine produces a workmanlike effort on their failed attempts.  But in closing when he states that the relative decline was not so bad, he shows a weakness of many British historians.  Whether what happened was inevitable or not is a complex questions.  But even if nothing could have been changed, much of the recent work on Germany, Russia, Israel, Spain or the United States is based on the belief that things SHOULD have been better.  There is no such feeling in most Briitsh historiography, and one suspects that here realism is confused with complacency and quietism.  It is disturbing indeed, that Cannadine cannot discern the difference.	2003-01-16
US	52562171	R1CXIH0VHQ6BAK	0375421521	949670675	Captives: The story of Britain's pursuit of empire and how its soldiers and civilians were  held captive by the dream of global supremacy	Books	4	46	50	N	N	If you know nothing about the British Empire...	...this would be a good book.  But if you know more this book will be slightly disappointing.  Welcome to Linda Colley's new book about the British Empire which looks at it through the unusual prism of captive narratives.  Colley's new book is oddly similar to her last book, \\"Britons\\", having approximately the same number of pages (c.380), the same number of illustrations (c.75-80), and the same number of notes.  Colley's book is part of a particular British history genre.  Following in the path of Simon Schama's \\"Citizens,\\" these books are often lavishly illustrated and rely less on systematic research than amusing and telling anecdotes.  Although the authors often have strong opinions, their interest lies less in their originality than at their ability to bring to the public an element of scholarly research that hitherto been overlooked.  Similar authors include Orlando Figes, Niall Ferguson, and, in a pinch, Andrew Roberts.<br />Colley's book can be divided into three parts.  First, she discusses the narratives of Britons captured by the Barbary and Algiers Corsairs in the 17th and 18th centuries.  Second, she uses the narratives of those captured by Native Americans to highlight the relationship between the Britons and their American colonies.  Thirdly, she looks at those Britons captive in India, either at the hand of rival kingdoms, or as soldiers captive in their own army.  Throughout this book, Colley has a sharp turn of phrase (\\"The thin red [Imperial army] line was more accurately anorexic.)  And she has an eye for fascinating detail.  We learn that in the 1820s, two out of every five soldiers in Bermuda were whipped, and we are told about a particularly horrifying one in which the victim was whipped to death such that his back was \\"as black as a new hat.\\"  We learn that Irish soldiers in the 1680s in Algiers spoke in Gaelic to each other so that the English Protestants helping the besieging Moroccans wouldn't understand.  We learn that not only did the British have campaigns for the benefit of the French prisoners they caught during the Seven years War, but the French held similar campaigns for the British prisoners they caught.  We also get a sense of the continual expansion of the Empire.  In the relatively quiet decade of the 1840s alone, Great Britain gobbled up New Zealand, Natal, the Punjab, and Hong Kong among other places. <br />Colley has two messages from her captivity narratives.  First, there is the constant ambiguity of response.  The British often could not help admitting the civilization of the Ottomans, the courage of the native Americans, and the resourcefulness of their Indian rivals.  Many Britons admitted even more, and many crossed over to the other side, although the attempt to do so had their own difficulties and ambiguities. Colley constantly, indeed somewhat repetitively, argues that there was no monolithic racism.  Secondly, she points out the constant vulnerabilities of the empire.  Imperial overstretch was always a problem.  Consider the example of the Barbary captives.  Why would the British spend decades paying ransom for thousands of captives?  The answer is that the Mediterranean was vital for British ambitions, and since the Spanish were not likely to subsidize their hold on Gibraltir, Muslim trade was vital for British provisions, and for the British hold on it.  Similarly, British control of India required a tactful attitude towards its Native sepoys.<br />Much of this is interesting, and the chapter on British soldiers in India is very informative.  But I have a number of reservations.  (1) The constant use of illustrations shows a weakness in comparison with \\"Britons.\\"  There, Colley's discussion of national iconography was acute and informative.  Here the illustrations are much less so.  (2) Colley's arguments about racism, like those of her husband David Cannadine in \\"Ornamentalism,\\" are based on a straw man.  \\"There are those who argue, with the utmost sincerity, that were theBritish to remind themselves of their empire it would only further incite the racism inextinguishably associated with it.\\" (376)  Who are those people precisely?  Post-colonial scholars, such as Barbara Fields, or Theodore Allen or David Roediger and others are well aware that racism has a history, and is not an invariable constant.  David Brion Davis pointed out in the sixties that 18th century writers agreed that Africans did not live in a state of simple savagery.  Yet Colley quotes none of these writers.  (3) Colley's chapter on the American revolution is based on limited research.  Allen Kulikoff is much more interesting on the viciousness of the war, and Colley does not even mention Bernard Bailyn, Edward Countryman, J.C.D. Clark, Gordon Wood and other scholars.  (4) Finally, the constant emphasis on ambiguity and nuance tends to blur the fact that many indigenous populations were defeated, devastated, and in the case of Newfoundland and Tasmania, exterminated.  Many of the subjects of the Ottoman and Mughal empires would fall under British rule.  Some discussion of whether this was a good thing or a bad thing would be in order.  And Empire and imperialist ideology did not only affect the Empire's subjects and citizens.  Conquering the world would inspire other countries:  Hitler was an admirer of the British empire.	2003-01-10
US	52562171	R3O4W4LB6G0YFW	0300085419	34853211	Medieval Children	Books	4	28	28	N	N	The nice side of the middle ages.	A couple of years ago Steven Osment published a book called \\"Ancestors,\\" which sought to criticize the views of Philippe Aries that people in the past had treated their children incredibly callously.  Unforuntately, Osment's book was brief and somewhat superficial, even though he was basically right.  This book is one that Osment should have written, except that Osment is a historian of Reformation Germany and Orme is a historian of medieval England.  Contra Aries, Orme and his fellow scholars \\"have gathered copious evidence to show that adults regarded childhood as a distinct phase or phases of life, that parents treated children like children as well as like adults, that they did so with care and sympathy, and that children had cultural activities and possessions of their own.\\"  They book is lavishly illustrated and based on all sorts of information, from archival studies, to records of the royal family (the family most studied), to an abundance of visual evidence (Pieter Brugel's \\"Children's Games\\" is used to special effect).  Orme has also found archealogical evidence of toys and school books that children have scribled on.<br />Orme starts off with conception:  \\"Medieval Christians came to believe that God put the soul into the foetus when it took human shape, at about forty-six days for a male, and ninety for a female; until that point, the embryo was not human and had neither human life nor human soul.\\"  This view was held by Innocent III and Thomas Aquinas.  We discuss the ceremonies of baptism, the responsibilities of godparents, and the naming of children.  We discuss the relative rarity (though not absence) of birthdays.  We learn about cradles and swadling, about weaning and day and night time activities.  Infanticide was viewed with disapproval, and we learn about accidents and possible abuse.  Perhaps 42.5% of children died before they were ten in the late 1500s.  We learn about changing views of the fate of unbaptised children.  <br />Especially interesting are children's use of rhymes and songs, to which Orme devotes a whole chapter to.  We also learn about the use of toys, a practice well developed by the Middle Ages.  Orme talks about dolls, windmills, and tops.  He shows use pictures of toy knights on horsebacks which were mass-produced from moulds.  \\"Children, of course, have never confined themselves to toys made specially for them.  Poor or rich, they have fashioned their own from anything lying at hand.  Gerald of Wales, describing his childhood...in the 1150s, recalls how he and his brothers played with sand and dust...They built towns and palaces, and he made churches and monasteries.\\"  Orme goes on about games, such as marbles and chess, as well as playing at war.<br />Orme devotes another chapter to the church, and like today some churches were tolerant of small children wandering around, and others were more easily irritated.  There are, rather surprisingly, two chapters on reading, one on learning how to do it, and another on literature for children.  Since most children did not know how to read in medieval England this might be a bit excessive.  It is interesting to learn about the different alphabets and how children were taught to learn syllables, but perhaps this is a bit much.  On the other hand, Orme forcefully reminds us that literacy was not the result of the invention of printing.  Instead increased literacy encouraged the development of the printing press.  Orme is part of a historical trend which emphasizes the importance, if not the predominance, of literacy in the late medieval period as opposed to the supposed ubiquity of an exclusively oral tradition.  Orme concludes with a chapter on growing up.  He reminds us that contrary to what many people think, the marriage of children or their execution was a rather rare event.  Nor was a callous greedy apprenticeship that common either.  All in all, Orme has provided a thorough dissection of the child's role in medieval England.  No doubt much of this is applicable to the rest of Europe.  One only wishes, giving that so much of Orme's account deals with the Church, about how Jews raised their children.	2003-01-03
US	52562171	RYFG8XUZEDWOS	0374104344	392598822	American Studies	Books	3	33	49	N	N	Bloodless	Collections of essays by intelligent, thoughtful people are always fun, or should be.  But this is not the feeling one gets on reading this collection of essays by Louis Menand.  This book is a reprint of essays that have appeared in such worthy journals as The New Yorker, The New York Review of Books, and the New Republic.  We start with essays on William James and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.  Then we discuss T.S. Eliot's anti-semitism, Richard Wright and James Conant, as well as the New Yorker, and modern television.  We read essays criticizing Pauline Kael and Christopher Lasch, a deflation of Larry Flynt, a look at the mind of Al Gore, and finally a piece on Vietnam War Memorial architect Maya Lin.  <br />Yet compared to works by such other New Yorker and NYRB alumni such as Joan Didion, Renata Adler, and Anthony Lane, this book is a rather bloodless work.  People who have read Menand in the past will regret the absence of his deflation of Camille Paglia, or his critical review of \\"Saving Private Ryan,\\"  as well as his dissections of such movies as \\"Independence Day,\\" and \\"The Wings of the Dove.\\"  But the problem is not simply selection.  In his informative essay on Lin he notes her view that one reason that her work is so emotionally effective is that she herself maintained her emotional detachment, and her apolitical views.<br />This view seems to have infected Menand's prose, with disappointing results.  On the one hand Menand's review of Pauline Kael is not as memorable as Adler's ruthless polemic against her. (He writes that her reviews were not really \\"rereadable.\\"  Sometimes, sometimes not.  Nor true, in my view, of her reviews of \\"A Clockwork Orange,\\" or \\"The Godfather, Part Two.\\") His essay on television is much more complacent than Mark Crispin Miller.  On the other hand his critical review of Christopher Lasch's \\"The True and Only Heaven,\\" is not as acute as Stephen Holmes, or as informative as Jackson Lears' eulogy.  But what is really problematic issomething else.  \\"The True and Only Heaven,\\" is a deeply flawed book, but at least Lasch cared deeply about American democracy and its problems.  At least Kael had a deep admiration for movies, and a genuine sense of disgust and anger at the way studios betray them.  Menand not only does not share the same feelings, he does not really seem to care.  There is little sense of intensity and passion, just a sense of superiority over a woman who should care so much about something as unimportant as popular movies. <br />Consider also the essay on Larry Flynt and Jerry Falwell.  This is the sort of essay Bill Clinton would write on the topic if he were not an adulterer.  There is criticism of both sides, and like much centrist rhetoric seeks to find an affinity between both \\"extremes.\\"  After all, lower class white male Southerners are both consumers of \\"Hustler\\" and evangelical Christians.  True, but then so are many other sectors of the American population.  And consider his essay on Al Gore.  There are some subtle criticisms of Gore's stiffness and sententiousness.  But there is no real feeling that a politician seeking to be the most powerful man on earth should show real imagination and vision.  Perhaps one should move to the left of the Clinton-Gore consensus, but not too much more.  One is reminded of a Feiffer cartoon from the 1960s, in which a \\"responsible\\" critic of the Vietnam War carries a sign requesting \\"A Little Less Bombing.\\"<br />Isn't there anything he really likes?  Menand's book on American pragmatism worked on the idea that pragmatism was a salutary reaction to the dogmatism of abolitionism.  Such a view, as Lee Siegel has pointed out, works best if one believes that Americans did too much to free the slaves, and that African-Americans had no claim on their countrymen's conscience after 1876.  Consider the way Menand dismisses the idea that Holmes had any kind of coherent politics, or his view that racism is simply an atavism due to dissolve in the course of modernization.  \\"The evil of modern society isn't that it creates racism but that it creates conditions in which people who don't suffer from injustice seem incapable of caring very much about people who do.\\"  Read this again carefully.  Is there nothing \\"modern\\" about racism?  Is callousness a recent development?  Menand has criticized in the past post-structuralists and Critical Legal Studies, but at least these people were not guilty of that sort of banality.  On the plus side, the essay on T.S. Eliot's anti-semitism is quite useful, and includes the fact that Eliot compared the notorious anti-Semite Charles Maurras to Virgil in an article published after Maurras' conviction for collaboration with the Nazis.  There are some useful comments about the New Yorker style, and some interesting comments on the development of the technology of television.  Also, he likes Laurie Anderson.	2002-12-31
US	52562171	R26M0OKDNM4GQM	0802807348	749877523	The Politics of Jesus	Books	2	84	191	N	N	Was Jesus a Pacifist?	The late John Howard Yoder was one of the most influential Mennonite theologians of his time.  This book argues the case that Jesus believed in a \\"Christian Pacifism.\\"  This is in contrast to the common view of many Protestants in \\"Christian Realism.\\"  In Yoder's view Jesus' opinions are not to be dismissed and downgraded under the general fact of his atonement for the world's sins.  Nor are his views to be (tactfully) dismissed as representing a rustic world-view based on personal relationships which does not really grasp the complex world of institutions and power relationships.  Jesus cannot simply be dismissed as someone who did not recognize the necessity of power, nor can his view be that of an apocalyptic enthusiast who believed that the world was fated to end.  By examining the Gospel of Luke Yoder argues we can see allusions to the Jubilee and its demands for social justice for the poor.  Yoder traces a pattern in the bible in which \\"God will Fight For Us\\" after the reign of King David, and he points out successful instances of non-violent resistance to the Romans in Jesus' time.  <br />Such are Yoder's views.  However sympathetic one may be to pacifism, Yoder's argument is clearly flawed.  His work contains two flaws that are common to books of this type.  First, his historical knowledge is limited.  Second, he fails to fully appreciate opposing passages in the bibles.<br />Let's look at the historical problems.  (1) Much of Yoder's discussion of Jesus is based on the idea that there was a revolutionary Zealot movement contemporary with him.  Therefore, Jesus' view of power can be seen as a principled pacifist rejection of their violent tactics.  Unfortunately for Yoder's argument it is clear that there was no such movement.  One can see this clearly in volume three of John Meier's A Marginal Jew.  The \\"Zealot\\" in Simon Zealot is an adjective, the faction per se did not arise for another three decades until the Great Jewish rebellion.  (2) Yoder has to defend the \\"Haustafalen\\" passages where Saint Paul states \\"Wives, be subject to your husbands...Children, obey your parents, etc...\\"  This passage has historically been viewed as an apology for misogyny and slavery.  In defense Yoder argues that these passages were unprecedented in viewing slaves and women as moral agents, and in counselling husbands to love their wives.  Yoder is wrong:  slaves were commonly viewed as moral agents (i.e. Seneca) and stoics such as the first century Musonious Rufus supported mutual love between spouses.  <br />Now on to the problem of tendentiousness.  (1) Yoder's book concentrates on the Gospel of Luke.  There is only cursory discussion of why he uses this Gospel, when it is generally believed that Mark is the earliest one.  Yoder completely ignores the whole problem of Jesus scholarship, trying to find out what he said as opposed to what the gospel writers composed four to seven decades after his death.  (2) Yoder discusses the Jubilee and power.  But what about the demons Jesus cast out, or the miracles he performed?  What about the statements in which Jesus said the Kingdom of God is now amongst us, and its final triumph within our lifetimes?  (3) In the chapter \\"God will Fight for Us,\\" Yoder argues for a tradition that after King David, God, not men will fight Israel's battles for her.  But what about Jehu's coup against Jezebel, or the execution of Athaliah and Haman, or the struggles of the Maccabees? (4) Yoder consistently ignores or downplays the eschatological view of the early church.  Consider his long discussion of Romans, chapter 13, which he argues is not a blank cheque for state power.  But he ignores Romans 13:11-12:  \\"...for now is our salvatio nearer than we believed.  The night is far spent, the day is at hand...\\"  How can one build a politics on the bedrock of people who believed the world was going to end?  There may be a good case for pacifism and rejecting power.  But Yoder does not provide it and it is not clearthat it can be based on the New Testament.	2002-12-29
US	52562171	R2OJ4AR97U6W8Y	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	3	45	64	N	N	2.6 stars.  Not sharp enough	This is a slightly odd book.  On the one hand it is a polemic against George Bush.  We hear Bush II stating that the theory of evolution is an open question.  We learn all the facts about Enron, such as how it was the largest contributor to the Bush campaign, how it gave $100,000 to the editor of \\"The Weekly Standard,\\" and how Karl Rove conveniently sold his shares before it all tanked.  \\"When the SEC investigated Bush's dumping of Harken stock, the head was an appointee of his father and the SEC's general counsel was the Texas lawyer who had handled the sale of the Texas Rangers to Bush and his fellow investors in 1989.\\"  <br />But there is not much here that a moderately attentive reader of the news would not already know, although Lind does remind us that both Margaret Thatcher and Jeane Kirkpatrick opposed Israel's 1981 attack on Iraq, and that in 1944 the President of the University of Texas was dismissed for the unpardonable offence of assigning Dos Passos to students.  Rather Lind's book is based on dissecting a supposed dichotomy in Texas life.  On the one hand, there is the old Southern elite, which now includes both Bushes as well as Armey, Gramm and other Southern reactionaries, with its background in slavery, segregation, lynching, disenfranchisement and religious obscurantism.  It is, Lind argues, fundamentally unbourgois.  Its base consists of exploitation of resources and simple commodities (cotton, oil) and it naturally supports free trade and the dependence (first on Britain, then the North) that goes along with it.  On the other hand there are the modernizers, best symbolized by LBJ, but also by people as varied as John Connolly and Ross Perot, who used the New Deal to create a modern society, wealthier and more independent, on new technology.  Unfortunately, while the New Deal and the Great Society made Texas substantially richer, the old elite was able to keep its grasp on Texas and use it as a base to impose its reactionary agenda on the rest ofthe country.<br />There is some truth to this, but much of it is obvious and lacks bite.  For a start, the Savings and Loans scandal goes almost unmentioned.  Robert Sherrill would be a much more caustic yet nourishing guide.  There is also a certain sloppiness:  at one point in the forties Pappy O'Daniel is at the same time a senator and a governor.  The Suez crisis is misdated to 1957 and Israel's attack on Lebanon is misdated to 1981.  Why is Lloyd Bentsen considered part of the \\"Southern\\" elite, when he actually defeated Bush I for the Senate in 1970, and served in Clinton's \\"modernizer\\" cabinet?  Much of the chapters on the religious right and Bush's policy on Palestine (on which he is properly critical) simply reprints Lind's polemics against neoconservatives and their apologies for bigoted fundamentalists.<br />And there is Lind's cultural determinism.  For Lind there are four \\"tribes\\" in Texas, the white Southerners, their (ex)slaves, the Mexicans, and the German anti-slavery immigrants.  Lind, a native Texan who claims Swedish and German descent gives special credit to the last group and says that their especially tolerant and open-minded way paved the way for LBJ.  By contrast, Blacks and Hispanics go almost unmentioned, except when Lind describes Hispanic immigration as a plot by Southern landowners.  Lind's portrait of the southern elite has its weaknesses.  On page 49 he writes that they were untouched \\"by the bourgeois and Puritan influences during its formative years in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.\\"  But on page 159 we are told that \\"the South's religion is seventeenth-century British Cromwellian Puritanism,\\" with a dash of pre-millenialist enthusiasm.  Much of his description of the Southern political tradition will not hunt:  Jefferson was not an anglophile, Jackson was not a doctrinaire free trader.  And as Steven Nelson points out, it was Jefferson's policies, not Hamilton's, that supported an independent industrial America.  Much ofthe southern political tradition is not unilateralist, but \\"internationalist\\":  one only has to mention Wilson, Hull, Fulbright, Byrnes.  And didn't Texas' senators vote for The League of Nations?  At one point Lind blames environmental degradation in Texas on the southern elites rapacious, unprudent, unbourgeois character.  But the same degradation, as Donald Worster has pointed out, can be seen across the West, especially in the dust bowls of Republican Kansas.  All in all, a rather weak polemic.	2002-12-27
US	52562171	R2VRPS27I6V2B5	0802035922	712801500	Our Glory and Our Grief: Torontonians and the Great War	Books	2	3	3	N	N	The Official Story	Looking at the bibliography, one might think that Ian Hugh Maclean Miller's book on Toronto's reaction to the first world war was an impressive piece of research.  Originally a successful doctoral dissertation, one finds no fewer than eight archives, 95 personal files and 12 pages of secondary sources.  These sources supposedly prove Miller's point that Torontonians were willingly, enthusiastically, indeed unanimously supportive of, not just the war, but the most aggressive and forceful measures to win the war, and moreover did so with full knowledge of its cruelties and many sacrifices.  And indeed, there is no doubt that Torontonians supported the war, at one point providing one in five recruits at a time when they were less than one in fifteen of the Canadian population.  <br />In fact, this is a shockingly mediocre work.  A look at the endnotes reveals a heavy reliance on Toronto's five daily papers, all of which supported the war.  In chapter three 54 of the 88 notes depend SOLELY on these papers.  In Chapter four it is 36 out of 51; in chapter five 37 out of 62, and in chapter six 56 out of 72.  Much of the book consists of endless accounts of funerals, rallies, calls for recruiting, war campaigns as reported in the press.  Class, gender, religion, are only mentioned to reinforce that everyone supported the war.  Politics never appears until the conscription issue arises in l916.  Moreover, Miller indulges in several sleights of hand.  Because no Laurier anti-conscription candidate ran in four ridings, Miller assumes that everyone in that riding supported conscription, an obviously fallacious assumption.  At one point (158) he states that 92.6 of Torontonians supported conscriptionist candidates, at another (196) he states that more than 90% supported the smaller subset of Unionist canditates.  (In fact it was more like 70%).  Often Toronto is personified, so that it is the \\"majority\\" of Torontonians who oppose Woodrow Wilson's peace offers, or the \\"majority\\"who support breaking up anti-war meetings, when all we hear are the presses and the police chiefs.      <br />In order to show that Torontonians were fully aware of the costs of war he notes that there were articles that occasionally printed grim details.  But as any student of wartime propaganda will tell you, the same newspapers also showed fatuous optimism, cheap moralism, rancid chauvinism, insipid sentimentality, atrocity propaganda and outright lies.  It would be difficult to take out the facts from the slosh, and most readers weren't I.F. Stone.  And in fact Miller provides no systematic analysis of the media coverage.  There is no discussion of censorship, no discussion of propaganda, only the most cursory discussion of the biases of the papers, and nothing about their owners' ideologies or political agendas.  Moralism, chauvnism, sentimentality--apparently they don't exist in Miller's account.  <br />In fact, Miller's shallowness is rather amazing.  Jeffrey Verhey has shown that, contary to myth, Germans did not rush off enthusiastically to war in 1914.  Similar studies have been made of Russia and France.  Scholars of the Blitz, a much more just and much more heroic war, are not as endlessly upbeat as Miller.  It does not occur to Miller that Toronto's apparent unanimity needs some sort of explanation.  But then perhaps it did occur to him, and he omitted it so it would not complicate his uplifting tale.  There is no mention of the fact that recruitment was highest from those born in Britain.  There is no mention of the fact that Toronto was known as \\"Little Belfast,\\" not because of any reference to Irish wit and charm, but because of an atmosphere of smug rancid chauvinism.  (The Orange Order is only mentioned once, in passing).  There is no discussion of its political culture (many ridings were Tory even after the Depression), and no real discussion of what imperialism and monarchism meant.  So if Torontonians were fighting for their country, what country was that?  And where did Catholics and Francophones exist in that country?  (There are only passing mentions of anti-French demagougery in 1917.)<br />Canadians are often critical of American conservatism, but only in Canada do military historians feel that it is their duty to be propagandists for the army.  Miller, according to the flyleaf, is a policy officer at the Department of Defense and this book does look like is was written by a bureaucrat.  \\"Sacrifice is no longer equated with the giving of oneself for a nobler, higher purpose.\\" he writes sententiously.  Dead wrong, but then many sane people would not consider Ypres and Somme a nobler, higher purpose.  I suspect that the attempt to encourage national pride is one reason for this perspective.  It cannot succeed.  Only 57% of Canadians voted for the Union government in 1917, and the number who supported it would have been even lower had it not been for electoral skullduggery.  The Canadian army in 1917 and 1942 was not a national institution.  And even in the Second World War, we have to wonder about an anti-fascism whose heroes are George VI and Pius XII.  Had Britian decided to stay out in September 1939, Canada would not have dreamed of entering the war.  So it says much that Neville Chamberlain was the conscience of our country.  But then a power of facing unpleasant facts has never been very much honored in Canada's army, or its historians.	2002-12-13
US	52562171	R1T9DNY0DGE6GO	0300097697	59807480	Churchill: Visionary. Statesman. Historian.	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Lukacs and Churchill-the love affair continues	John Lukacs is a Catholic anglophile and a conservative Christian Democrat who fled from Hungary at the beginning of the cold war.  At the same time he has never forgiven the Republican party right for its refusal to help Britain (and the rest of Europe) at her darkest hour.  Winston Churchill has always been his hero.  About fifteen years ago Lukacs wrote a book on the 80 day \\"duel\\" between Churchill and Hitler in the summer of 1940.  A few years ago he wrote a more popular book that looked at ten of those days.  This third book concentrates on Churchill, and it is the most disappointing yet.<br />Lukacs looks at Churchill \\"the visionary,\\" and his relationships with Stalin, FDR, and Eisenhower.  He then discusses appeasement, Churchill's skill as a historian, his failures, and then concludes with his memories of Churchill's funeral.   Basically this book is a shallow collection of essays which add nothing to our knowledge of the man.  There are not even many telling details or pungent anecdotes.  There is nothing wrong in arguing, as Lukacs does, that Churchill was right not to make a deal with Hitler, and that he is not to blame for the fact that postwar Poland was a Communist dictatorship.  But most historians have never doubted these matters, and Lukacs has nothing new to add. Lukacs has never really cared for archival research, nor has he really paid much attention to what other scholars say.  At one point he states that the Soviet Union was not really interested in defending Czechoslovakia in 1938, nor was it really interested in negotiating an alliance with France and Britain the following years.  Perhaps, but it is important to point out that in recent years Hugh Ragsdale and Michael J. Carley have produced well documented arguments to the contrary, and that Lukacs not only does not refute them, he appears to be unaware of their existence.  Likewise, the chapter on Eisenhower and Churchill concentrates on Churchill's proposals in 1953 to try to make a deal with the post-Stalin leadership, which Eisenhower peremptorily brushed aside.  Was an opportunity to end, or shorten, the cold war carelessly thrown away?  Perhaps, but other scholars, such as John W. Young and Jaclyn Stanke, have discussed the issue in far greater detail than Lukacs.  Many scholars dislike Stephen Ambrose for his terminus into plagiarism and middlebrow eminence.  Notwithstanding that, his argument that Eisenhower and his small armies could not have snatched the honor of taking Berlin from Zhukov's larger forces still stands, and Lukacs does nothing to refute it. <br />Lukacs exaggerates Churchill's perceptiveness.  Contra Lukacs, Churchill's fears of German revenge in 1924 were not boldly original, but a commonplace among the British.  It did not take great insight after the 1930 German elections to realize, as Churchill did, that Hitler was an important politician.  And Churchill was not alone in 1935 in fearing a possible war from Hitler.  The chapter on Churchill's histories is indulgent and complacent, as Lukacs applauds Churchill for his style and memorable image.   Unfortunately, this confuses history with journalism, and Lukacs is less informative on this than David Reynolds and J.H. Plumb.  Lukacs mentions Churchill's faults, but his account of the Dardanelles fiasco, the catastrophic return to the Gold Standard and Churchill's opposition to Indian independence are brief and apologetic.  Christopher Thorne is more accurate on Churchill's bigotry and the price of his imperialist illusions.   David Cannadine is far more acute on his awful family who, with the exception of his wife and his daughter, Lady Soames, were incredibly selfish and irresponsible.  Cannadine is also acute on Churchill's ignorance of modern day life, noting that Churchill took the underground only once, and he had to be rescued, because he didn't know how to get off.  <br />\\"Churchill and Hitler were, at any rate, the two protagonists of the dramatic phase of the last war, even though Roosevelt and Stalin played the decisive role in its epic phase, at the end.\\"  As a distinction, this does not work very well.  Was there nothing dramatic about the defense of Leningrad and the battle of Kursk? But for Lukacs it is important to view the conflict as one between Hitler and Churchill, even though he is well aware that Churchill could not have won without the USA and the USSR.  For Churchill is an icon, a symbol of the liberal, aristocratic order.  When Churchill saved Britain in 1940 he redeemed this order's honor.  One can only contrast with the actual ruling class of interwar Hungary who led that country into a vicious, genocidal war.  That contrast is more interesting than anything Lukacs has to say in this book.	2002-12-09
US	52562171	R325IYIEMXOV0A	0520233417	272095139	Colored White: Transcending the Racial Past	Books	4	30	34	N	N	At a crossorads, 3.7 stars	About a decade ago, David Roediger published \\"The Wages of Whiteness,\\" which looked at the question of why members of the Northern Working Class, especially recent Irish immigrants, were so hostile to African-Americans and so supportive of pro-slavery politicians.  What, one might ask, would Catholic Irish immigrants get from supporting extremely arrogant Southern Protestant landowners, who tended to look down on both laborers and Catholics?  Roediger's insight was that by emphasizing a common \\"whiteness,\\" Irish-Americans could challenge those who would denounce them as Catholics, proletarians, and arguably, not white themselves.<br />This is the third book where Roediger has expanded his concept of \\"whiteness.\\"  A key element is that \\"race\\" is a social construction, and that in the past \\"whiteness\\" has been a subjective concept.  Not only have Arabs, Hispanics and Indians from India been excluded from the concept of \\"Caucasian,\\" but immigrants from Ireland and Germany, Eastern and Southern Europe have all been \\"in-between\\" at times.  (Benjamin Franklin once wrote that Swedes and most Germans weren't white, indeed only the English and Saxons were.)  Ethnic groups have had to struggle to ensure their \\"whiteness\\", usually at the expense of African Americans.  But there has also been opposing tendencies in American history from those who would challenge the shibboleths of \\"whiteness\\" and the racial oppression that it supports.  <br />This collection includes an interesting essay on Rudolph Gulliani's demagogic campaign against Chris Ofili's Virgin Mary, pointing out an Italian tradition of black Madonnas.  There is an insightful essay on O.J. Simpson, which is very informative on the complex links between sports, commercialism, and race.  Another chapter looks at why abolitionists got on better with early feminists than with early trade unionists, even though both of them compared their plight to slavery.  (The answer is that feminists, having grown out of the abolitionist movement in the first place, were more sensitive to the horrors of slavery, whereas trade unionists tended to belittle it.)  The final chapter deals with the ambiguity of Elvis' forays into African-American music, and the phenomenon of \\"wiggers.\\"  Roediger's account here is particularly subtle as he points out both the strengths and weaknesses of such \\"crossing-overs\\" for an anti-racist agenda.  Some wiggers want to identify with the culture of hip-hop, others vicariously identify with its misogyny and violence.  <br />Perhaps the best essay deals with a critique of the neoliberal view on race.  There has been much talk of appealing to \\"class\\" as opposed to \\"race\\" issues.  But as Roediger points out what the Democratic Party of Clinton did was not support such issues as trade unionism, free trade, maternity leave, childcare, or national health insurance. Instead it appealed to pre-existing prejudices against blacks.  Roediger points out that affirmative action potentially benefits a large majority of the working class, or would if we did not define such a group as white males.  \\"Because of existing inequalities of race, some new benefits will clearly be utilized at different levels across racial lines,\\" while at the same time \\"the tremedous benefits of Federal Housing Administration loans, home mortgage tax deductions, and federal subsidy of highway construction serving new suburbs are seen as 'race neutral,' despite the fact that their benefits accrue overwhelmingly to the white middle class.\\"<br />Certain problems exist though.  (1) There is a somewhat annoying tendency to cite Melville, Ellison, Du Bois and other heroes of the past in a somewhat uncritical and hagiographic manner. (2) Although this book is extensively footnoted, there is little primary research.  There is much reference to new scholarship, but it is sometimes repetitive.  (3) On the hand it is important to note that \\"whiteness\\" is not a natural or uncontested concept.  On the other hand, asBarbara Fields and Eric Arnesen have pointed out, racialization of \\"blacks\\" and \\"whites\\" are not equally subjective.  The Northern Democratic Party, the Roman Catholic Church and naturalization judges have never really doubted the \\"whiteness\\" of most European Catholic immigrants. (4) An emphasis on \\"whiteness\\" ignores other aspects of conservative hegemony in the United States.  One aspect is religion, the other is the English/Scottish assumptions of what it is constitutively \\"American.\\"  Another aspect is the ideology of anti-totalitarianism.  After all, when the National Review and The New Republic attack welfare, the model they invoke is not George Wallace, but George Orwell, castigating intellectuals in the name of the people, damning the left for refusing to face the facts about a decripit underclass.  (5) There is much talk of \\"people of color\\" being an \\"other\\" for white Americans.  But as Orlando Patterson pointed out in the New Left Review in the 1960s, there is also a tendency to obscure their presence completely.  Many Americans, after all, live in states where racial minorites are non-existent, while others, of course, live in hyper-segregated suburbs.	2002-12-01
US	52562171	R2QA5YT5S6L195	0674005449	156358058	Has Feminism Changed Science?	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not the scary post-modernism monster you might think	\\"Has Feminism Changed Science?\\"  I think the first response to this question is How could it, followed by Why should it?  Doesn't this resemble the sort of postmodernist chatter about science that led to the Alan Sokal hoax?  Londa Schiebinger's book is not the most interesting in the world, which could raise inaccurate fears that it is cursed with academic jargon.  However, her work is valuable in it shows that in fact feminism does have something valuable to say about the development of science.  Schiebinger starts off by stating that she does not particularly believe in difference feminism.  Nor does she support the idea that stereotypically feminine qualities can provide insights that are unavailable to mere mortal men.  She also wisely points out that \\"It is not obvious that gender has a stronger influence on science than do other political and cultural divides in North American society, such as class or ethnicity.\\"  She then starts off with a history of women in science, working on her previous book \\"The Mind Has No Sex?\\" and about the somewhat unpleasant consequences of the Enlightenment in the spread of female scientists.  The next chapter looks at differences and possible discrimination against women scientists, the possibility of women's indigenous knowledge (mostly in agriculture), and a nuanced and somewhat inconclusive account of publication records and citation counts.  <br />The, more interesting, remainder of the book can be divided into two sections:  features of the culture of science that unfairly hamper women, and aspects of science that could be improved by looking at gender questions.  Schiebinger starts off with how children's toys at a very early age reinforce gender stereotypes, as well as educational software that emphasizes wargame elements more attractive to boys.  She discusses widespread images of scientists that assume that they are male.  She includes a rather pompous comment by James Watson about his colleague Rosalind Franklin whomhe belittled for not being attractive, as well as the fact that F.A. Hayek excluded women from his intellectual salon.  She points out that images of science have not always been masculine, while the stereotype of competitive men and cooperative women in reversed in Japan--without improving the status of women.  Schiebinger discusses such facts as tone of voice, problems in raising families, the culture of modesty, personal space, as well as one geologist who found herself invited by her department to attend the showing of Sports Illustrated swimsuit video, and being criticized when she demurred.  <br />Schiebinger then goes on to study specific studies.  She points how many studies in medicine ignored women, such as a 1982 study looking at aspirin and heart disease that studied 22,071 men and 0 women.  She also discusses issues in primatology and how female scientists have challenged the masculine assumptions about masculine baboon life.  She points out, for instance, that we have no proof that the famed fossil \\"Lucy\\" was a woman.  It was assumed that \\"she\\" was because she was small, and supposedly because her pelvis was large enough to permit the birth of larger-brained infants.  Except that a) larger-brained infants didn't arise for a million or more years and b) her pelvis was not in fact large.  Feminist archaeologists have pointed out that others have incorrectly assumed that tools were owned by men, and that the tools that survive were the most important in human evolution.  In looking at biology she points out the problem that gendered metaphors can produce.  Starting from Linnaeus' ideas of marriage in flowers, she points out why much discussion of bacterial sex is misleading (there is sexual reproduction but comparing it to our male and female genders is most unhelpful) and why walruses and stallions do not really keep \\"harems\\" of women.  Finally, in looking at physics and math, she discusses how although SAT scores give men an advantage in math, if one increased the algebra questions and reduced the geometry ones, the gap would be equal.  She also points out that IQ tests have been rejigged in the past when women were doing better on them.  Overall, Schiebinger reminds us of a central fact of the Kuhnian revolution in the history of science.  Science is our best way of learning the truth about ourselves and the world around us, but objectivity is a lot more difficult than it looks.	2002-11-24
US	52562171	R9CW4CA2V1C3H	1560254092	395910395	Left Hooks, Right Crosses: A Decade of Political Writing	Books	3	17	30	N	N	Something for everyone...	...but not enough for anyone.  Welcome to this collection of journalism from the right and left of the American political spectrum.  For the left, is (or was) Christopher Hitchens, vigorous atheist and internationalist but also unmitigated and uncompromising hater of the Clintons!  For the right, Christopher Caldwell, consistent supporter of the Republican Party but critical of its attacks on Clinton!  They have come together to present their favorite examples of journalism as each one introduces the other side's journalism.  Gee, doesn't that sound unpredictable and exciting!  If this sounds more like the introduction of a television sitcom than a volume of intellectual debate, then congratulations, you've encountered the first problem with this collection.  The rhetoric of partisan conflict, plus the indulgent flattery of the other side, with the special premium of \\"unpredicatibilty\\":  there was a time when Christopher Hitchens was above this sort of thing.  (In particular, in a November 1985 review of Charles Krauthammer.)  <br />This sort of collection is almost guaranteed to win approval.  After all no-one can agree with all the articles here.  That is especially the case with the impeachement of Clinton, where there are articles for and against in both halves of the book, with the best one being Kenneth Anderson's opposition to it in the \\"right\\" side.  So what that Caldwell writes in pseudo-populist vein of how the Democrats hold the presidency and both houses of Congress, something they've only done for two of the past 22 years?  Instead we are to admire the book, and presumably the editors, for the wide variety of vigorously presented views.  Perhaps.  Highlights of the left side include Adolph Reed Jr's critique of The Bell Curve, Andrew Cohen on the fatuousness of \\"Generation X\\" buzz, Susan Sontag's lament for Bosnia, Benjamin DeMott's criticism of \\"civility,\\" Marshall Berman on the Communist Manifesto, Arundhati Roy on India's nuclear bomb, and Nat Hentoff against speech codes.  Highlights on the right side include Andrew Sullivan on why he published Charles Murray on the Bell Curve, Ruth Wisse on having an ex-Communist for a father, Bill Kauffmann in praise of Dorothy Day, John O'Sullivan and Thomas Fleming against the Kosovo war, and Kenneth Minogue's polemic against feminism.<BR>  <BR>Some of the contrasts do not do credit to the Right.  Certainly I prefer Susan Sontag's elegy for Bosnia, to Thomas Fleming's whine over the Kosovo war.  You could give me Nat Hentoff over David \\"I may or may not be lying\\" Brooks any day.  And certainly Adolph Reed's criticism of The Bell Curve is much more damaging than Andrew Sullivan's defense of his decision to publish Charles Murray.  Sullivan claims he was just defying political orthodoxy.  (If he really wanted to challenge his reader's opinions, he could have published Noam Chomsky.)  Hitchens praises the right for its wit; personally I only find Tucker Carlson's desperate efforts to avoid telemarketers amusing.  It's a pity this collection didn't publish cartoons, so that the Left could have responded with Feiffer, Sorel, Grossman, Tom Tomorrow, Tom Toles or Tom the Dancing Bug.  <br />What is missing?  Well, there's no John Leonard or Mike Davis.  There's nothing from the Village Voice, though I recall a very stimulating round table on Schindler's List, as well as Micaela Di Leonardo's Fall 1992 essay against the racial consensus of our times.  There is little on culture, so on the one hand we miss Jonathan Rosenbaum and Jackson Lears, but on the other hand we escape Caldwell's suggestion that Steven Spielberg was soft on Nazism.  One real omission is the absence of any feminist viewpoint:  no Katha Pollitt, not that many women, and several anti-feminist pieces on the right.  There is a thankfully brief piece by Harvey Mansfield that is insufferably smug.  There is a piece by Andrew Ferguson on Strunk and White, which complains that the common use of \\"he\\" to refer to an unknown person is gender-neutral.  Rubbish.  If it was they would have used \\"she\\" just as often.  Most appalling is a crude and long polemic by Pr. Kenneth Minogue, which blames feminism for the collapse of western civilization.  <br />There is no shortage of flaws with this argument.  For a start conservatives have been blaming feminism for this collapse ever since women started asking for the vote.  Having been wrong in the past, Minogue offers the view that feminism has been irretrievably wrong since sometime in the seventies, that is when the laws were changed to ban husbands from raping their wives.  Let us just take one example to point Minogue's fautity:  \\"A melodrama of oppression was needed to fire up the new tribe...feminist doctrine thrives on horror stories of women not allowed to take degrees at Oxbridge until this century. By contrast with the horrors of the twentieth century...we may diagnose a certain lack of proportion.\\"  Three things to point out:  First off, if we are going to use the Holocaust as our criterion of human suffering, then political correctness and all the other outrages the right feeds on are going to be very small beer indeed.  Secondly feminists also point out such minor problems in women's lot as systematic discrimination, the denial of the vote, the double standard and sexual violence.  Third, it's in poor taste for Minogue to sneer at university discrimination, since without his university degree no-one would pay more attention to Kenneth Minogue's views than they would to Kylie Minogue's.  What was Caldwell thinking?	2002-11-20
US	52562171	RIS14XJ20WWHU	1565847652	209022604	Dead Cities: And Other Tales	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Slouching towards Bethlehem:  the greatest hits	Collections of the work of journalists or intellectuals can be a mixed bag, especially when the author is better known for a major work.  Such is the case here for Mike Davis, author of the invaluable Prisoners of the American Dream, City of Quartz, Ecology of Fear, and Late Victorian Holocausts.  This is a collection of essays and articles that he has written over the past decade or so.  There is a certain lack of unity as Davis discusses three major themes:  disaster, ecological crisis, and gross injustice in the world the Sunbelt Republicans made.<br />Notwithstanding that, there is much that the reader will find informative and valuable.  Carrying on from his chapter in The Ecology of Fear about Los Angeles' dystopias, the book starts with a chapter on the imagined literary destruction of New York.  Davis quotes H.G. Wells' almost forgotten classic The War in the Air about the first aerial destruction of NYC:  \\"They [New Yorkers] saw war as they saw history, through an irridescent mist, deodorized, scented indeed, with all its essential cruelties tactfully hidden away.\\"  While this is not entirely fair about New York, it is all too true of the Republican Party.  Davis goes on to discuss the poisoning of much of Nevada and Utah by the military, as well as making model cities to practice bombing Axis civilians in world war two.  (Davis reminds us that a third of the 600,000 civilians killed this way in Germany were prisoners of war and slave labor).  There are essays on Los Angeles' Pentecostals, as well as how one Hawaian island remembers several devastating tsunamis.  There is also an essay which discusses several fictional attempts to describe what would happen if most humans became extinct.  The longest chapter is an article where Davis summarizes the revolution in earth sciences as geology and evolutionary theory has to come to terms with the prospect of asteroids hitting the earth on a devastating, if irregular basis.<br />But the book is most impressive indiscussing the greed, selfishness and waste of the \\"conservatives\\" who have done so much to make the American west what it is today.  A chapter on Las Vegas discusses how the city has no responsible water ethic, cuts down public space to the lowest in the country, disperses land over an enormous and wasterful area, while public transit is dictated by the car.  60% of water use goes to irrigate lawns and golf courses, while water use is double or triple that of other Western cities.  But being in the middle of a desert Las Vegas' water requirements cannot be sustained by local sources so it greedily seeks water elsewhere.  Meanwhile local government is deliberately fragmented and gerrymandered so that the most valuable areas are separated from the electorate that needs public services.<br />Los Angeles, as Davis shows, shares many of the same vices.  It has only a third of NYC's public park area per capita.  It has the same distorted local government.  The worst incorporated city must be Vernon, which has 48,000 workers, mostly Latinos in sweatshops, and an actual resident electorate of 90 people, who do not use their tax revenues to help their workers but the property developers who run the city almost as a private fief.  Other areas show white electorates ignoring hispanic minorites.  Meanwhile Davis discusses Los Angeles' would-be subway system, where the relatively affluent 6% of the ridership who use the proposed subway get 70% of public transit funds, while the poorer, darker majority who use the bus face fare increases and reduced service.  Davis also goes to the \\"city\\" of Compton, where before it achieved a black majority the white city council spitefully ran it down and sowed the streets with salt.  Compton's attempt to get a tax base by annexing industrial areas was thwarted and attempts to attract investment with tax breaks only attracted those who took the money and run.  Now the black council selfishly protects its own privileges over those of the increasing Hispanic population.  Best of all is the chapter \\"Who Killed L.A.\\" which discusses the systematic redistribution of income from the poorest inner cities to the wealthy suburbs.  (The federal contribution to Los Angeles' budget fell from 18% to 2% from 1977 to 1985, while George Bush stuffed the 1992 riots aid package with a cut on luxury taxes on yachts, but vetoed it when it tried to remove the tax deduction on club dues.)<br />The final chapter discusses ecological crisis as global warning leads to increasingly erratic weather, while the spread of the market and corporate pressures leads to deforestation in Vietnam, ecological degradation in China and the extinction of the Grand Bank fisheries.  The book could use more updates, and there are a number of annoying printing errors and misprints (most obvious, Alexandra Richie's name is mispelled as Alexander).  But Dead Cities is a valuable work that produces an acerbic outlook in an intellectual world that is complacent beyond belief.	2002-11-13
US	52562171	RL4IKFPS8KKRZ	0375414347	596080978	A Moral Reckoning: The Role of the Catholic Church in the Holocaust and Its Unfulfilled Duty of Repair	Books	2	85	113	N	N	Writing poor books about the Holocaust	The interesting thing about this book is that although Daniel Joseph Goldhagen is correct that the Catholic Church's conduct during the Holocaust was grossly inadequate, and that it should make restitution, this is still a mediocre book.  For a start this book is largely based on secondary sources; works such as John Cornwell, James Carroll, Michael Phayer, Gary Wills, David Kertzer and Susan Zuccotti.  These books are a mixed bag (Zuccotti is excellent, Wills' polemic on the papacy is stimulating, Cornwell is mediocre), but there is little reason to read Goldhagen than the best of these works.  (For a start, compare Goldhagen's unforgiving description of the Vatican's response to Mussolini's anti-semitic laws, and then read Zuccotti's critical but more nuanced description.)<br />But there are other problems.  Goldhagen was not trained as a historian, but as a political scientist, and this book shows certain weakness.  He is abusive to other scholars, especially those such as Christopher Browning and H.U. Wehler who pointed out the many flaws in Goldhagen's previous book, \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners.\\"  There is a certain moral crudeness about Goldhagen's stance.  Most scholars on the subject do not have to endlessly repeat and demonstrate their horror of anti-semitism the way Goldhagen does; they do not assume that their readers are moral idiots.  He makes statements such as \\"In the long and sorry history of hatred that has shamed and demeaned the peoples of the Western world during the last two thousand years, more people have been deeply prejudiced against the Jews than against any other group.\\"  Is this true, and how would one go about proving it?  At one point, after delineating the Church's contemptous attitude towards Jews, Goldhagen confronts those who ask if the Church was always so poisonous, why was there not a Holocaust so much earlier.  Goldhagen responds by pompously saying that a successful genocide requires both a willing leadership and a willing population.  Oh. But why didn't these two arise under Catholic rule?  Goldhagen also engages in polisci jargon, and we are subjected to his attempts to shoehorn moral judgements into polisci quadrants.  There is a certain sloppiness in his thinking.  At one point he states \\"The Church, more than probably any other major non-Nazi institution in Europe, taught people a hate-filled, dehumanizing, and eliminationist view of Jews--that they were a guilt-laden people, a view that led many of its adherents to suport and often willingly to participate in the Jews' persecution.\\"  But later he suggests that one reason why many Italian Jews were resecued is because Italy had a low level of anti-semitism.  But why would that be the case, since Italy is the home of the Vatican, while most Germans were Protestants, (and Protestants were much more likely to vote Nazi before 1933 than Catholics)?  <br />The problem with this book, as with Goldhagen's previous one, is his simplistic view of ideology.  The fact that a group has a particular ideological tenent, and that the people that group wishes to influence act in a way that is in accordance with that tenent does not show that ideology caused the act.  After all the Church supports love and peace, and has condemned prostitution and fornication, and for the past 17 centuries its success on these grounds has been rather limited.  That until Vatican II the Church held all Jews collectively guilty for the death of Jesus is, on both moral and historical grounds, false and poisonous.  But what does this mean about actual Catholic relations with actual Jews?  \\"Between the idea/And the reality.../Falls the Shadow,\\" and Goldhagen does not illuminate it. \\"Virtually all Catholic clergy and a large percentage of their parishioners held the Jews to be guilty of grave crimes and offenses.  This conclusion seems incontestable.\\"  A gross exaggeration in my view, which can only be justified by assuming that everyone who holds an ideology holds allits tenents and takes them to their logical conclusion.<br />This is a pity because occasionally Goldhagen does make an intelligent point.  The Catholic Church has denounced Communism since 1864, it excommunicated all the world's Communists in 1949, and it frequently denounced it as a \\"satanic scourge\\" and \\"fatal plague.\\"  It would be impossible to say that Anti-semitism received this sort of denunciation (or abuse).  Goldhagen does point out that if choices weren't easy for the Vatican, they weren't easy for many people that we condemn as collaborators.  German bishops could criticize the Nazis on euthanasia, its pagan tendencies and its violations of the Concordat.  But it approved the invasion of Russia, many influential Vatican and German Catholics assisted the Nazi's escape after 1945, while Protestant and Catholic chaplains seem to have done almost nothing to impress upon their charges the utter foulness of the crimes they were committing.  But otherwise Goldhagen's reach exceeds his grasp, and that's not what's scholarship for.	2002-11-10
US	52562171	R3OCCXDDZNDAW1	0375414487	724576864	Nobody's Perfect: Writings from The New Yorker	Books	4	79	87	N	N	The best of the Champagne Moderates	There are many reasons one should be critical of The New Yorker.  For a start, there's the aura that leads unwitting subscribers to believe that there is nothing better to be had.  Then there's the gratuitious and unprovoked way that they inflicted Joe Klein on an unsuspecting country.  And why, oh why, must John Updike be the exemplar of the best of American fiction?  But no one can deny that it can be very funny.  There's the cartoons, the covers, the back pages and of course, Anthony Lane, the film critic. <br />Reasons why Anthony Lane gets four stars:  1) He is very funny.  On \\"Forrest Gump\\":  \\"The movie is so insistently heartwarming that it chilled me to the marrow.\\"  On Janet Jackson in \\"Poetic Justice,\\" making a whole range of expressions in a mirror: \\"Now, it's possible for an actress to get away with this, but she has to be Liv Ullmann and the movie has to be `Persona'\\"  On the score of \\"The Fugitive\\":  \\"It appears to be based on the principle that nothing is as scary as hitting a drum apart from hitting it harder.\\"  On scenes in \\"The Bridges of Madison County\\":  \\"During their visit, the weather went from grey to bright very quickly, and the continuity person was sent to bed without any supper.\\"  On Kurtz's kingdom in the revised version of \\"Apocalypse Now\\": [There is] \\"the perennial uneasy suspicion that Kurtz's kingdom is in fact nothing more than a T.S. Eliot Study Group gone terribly wrong.\\" (2) He likes bad puns:  \\"Faster Pussycat! Kilt! Kilt!\\" on \\"Braveheart.\\" (3) He's very perceptive (see most of the comments above, and also his comments in the introduction about how Ridley Scott is becoming less mature in his movies).  (4) He is not only brave enough to prefer \\"The English Patient\\" to \\"Fargo,\\" but is quite willing not even to mention the second movie in his book.  (5) He likes \\"The Usual Suspects,\\" and \\"Time Regained.\\"  (6) He is very good at eviscerating such movies as \\"Godzilla,\\" \\"Meet Joe Black,\\" \\"The Scarlet Letter,\\" \\"Indecent Proposal,\\" and \\"Pearl Harbour.\\"  (7) He writes a wide variety of interesting topics.  Not only does he review movies, not only does he review such masters of the screen as Bunuel, Hitchcock, Buster Keaton, Tati and Bresson, but he also talks about the Sound of Music revival, the weird aura of Lego blocks, and Edward Lear.  You learn all sorts of interesting facts, such as the one that Isadora Duncan's fatal scarf was given to her by Preston Sturges' mother.  (8) Not once but twice, he provides a review of the ten bestsellers of the day, once for 1994, another for 1995, based on Gore Vidal's classic 1973 essay.  (9) He is aware that movies are in trouble, inflected with mediocrity and a lack of basic competence. <br />Reasons why Anthony Lane doesn't get a fifth star:  (1) As you can guess from above, he is better at showing why movies are bad, then at describing why they are good.  (2) There is a certain lack of moral passion.  Pointing out the hollowness of \\"Priest\\" is one thing.  But where's the disgust one sees in Pauline Kael's review of \\"A Clockwork Orange,\\" or the caustic observation one sees in J. Hoberman's criticisms of \\"Pleasantville\\" or \\"Life is Beautiful\\"?  Nothing seems to move Lane very much in the way J. Hoberman was moved to write in his reviews of \\"Shoah\\" or \\"Schindler's List.\\"  There is little that is really enthusiastic or eccentric, such as Stuart Klawans' praise for \\"Matilda,\\" or Jonathan Rosenbaum's discovery of unseen virtues in \\"Showgirls.\\"   In this, Lane is not unlike The New Yorker's prose as a whole.  (3) Some of the literary essays show a certain laziness and a lack of fibre.  The one on John Ruskin says more about his sexual problems than about those features that made him the most influential art critic of his time.  A similar problem can be seen in the essay on Gide.  There is a certain bland centrism that infects the essays on Matthew Arnold and Luis Bunuel, the first suggesting that he couldn't be captured by left and right (as if that was enough)the second suggesting that Bunuel shouldn't be seen as a Red (since after all we don't any of those around).  (4) Not enough systematic examination of what's wrong with movies, and not enough curiosity about what one should look out for. (5) Too soft on \\"Titanic\\"; you got to lose marks there.	2002-11-05
US	52562171	R2SEWNJTRGPN7Y	0968217524	694395706	Everybody vs. Bob the Angry Flower	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Shameless plug for my brother's book.	In reading the exploits of Bob the Angry Flower, are we not in the presence of a certain greatness?  Is not Stumpy a creation of literary genius, the most perceptive account of a bosom companion since Linus van Pelt?  Is not Stephen Notley's style one of the most creative and original in comic strips, to be compared in the same sentence with Winsor McCay, Rube Goldberg and Art Spiegelman?  Is there not a certain pathos in the story of Bob, spending half his time as a brutal and vicious megalomaniac and the other half as a marginally successful cartoonist with limited romantic success, that matches and superpasses Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky and Shakepeare? <br />Well no, of course not and don't be silly.  But there are many amusing cartoons here, such as the one that I personally suggested about \\"Anna Karenina.\\"  There is the also the one I suggested that he didn't include, and indeed, never drew, about Theodor Adorno.  There is the return of gratuitous profanity, which I didn't really need.  And while it's good to see Kofi Annan as a hero, perhaps we should say something about his unheroic conduct during the Rwandan genocide.  But if you read this book you can learn valuable lessons.  For a start, if you try to take over the world, don't use a cardboard messiah.  Also, destroying the planet is not as bad as one might think.  And there's life-saving advice about what to do when threatened by a rampaging glacier. The attempt to do a cartoon on a redeemed Hitler does not sound very promising, but you'll notice that Hitler does all the talking and dicates what people can say.  And where else can you find such punchlines as \\"And now, a lamp,\\" \\"Moral:  money solves all Problems!\\"  \\"But in Heaven all the animals forgive him.\\"  \\"That's right Bob!  The World is EMPTY!!!\\"?  <br />You may wonder why a flower should care so much about human women, and why he started smoking.  And will we ever see \\"The Germ\\" or Nimsay?  But in this edition you can find the UN's guide to Bob Paraphrenalia, an exciting adventure involving Kofi Annan and giant beetles, six pages on relativity, and annotations.  You will see cameos from Bertrand Russell, the editor of NATURE, and what's wrong with Ayn Rand.  You will also see gratutious references to Kari Wueher, the Catherine Zeta-Jones character in \\"Entrapment\\" and the Power-Puff Girls, but, sadly, no references to Michel Foucault's \\"History of Sexuality,\\" Jennifer Aniston, Stephen Harper and brussel sprouts.  The Adventure continues.  And then later it stops.	2002-11-05
US	52562171	R2RBMX9A0R8GXT	0520226151	489179746	What it Means to be 98% Chimpanzee: Apes, People, and their Genes	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Helpful	For about two decades we have been hearing that chimpanzees and humans own 98% of their genetic identity.  And for the past few years biological determinism seems to be making a comeback.  If crude efforts like \\"The Bell Curve\\" are properly dismissed, we still find out that everything from alcoholism to homosexuality is determined by genes.  News reports argue that by looking at chimpanzees we can find the truth about our own agressive natures.  At the same time we hear about identical twins separated at birth, who are in the same professions, have wives and dogs with the same names, and even have the same styled moustaches.  Surely, this is proof of the power of nature.<br />Well, actually no, and it is the value of this book that it shows the weaknesses of this vulgar Darwinism.  The book is somewhat repetitive, and readers may find its invocations of eugenics and Social Darwinism both old news and somewhat unnuanced.  But in clear accessible language Marks shows the weaknesses of the above propositions.  For a start, the famous homosexuality study, which had a number of weaknesses Marks points out, stated that only 5% of whether one was a homosexual could be explained by genetics.  This makes sense, since homosexuality in human societies varies widely, being endemic in some societies at some stages in life (like Classical Rome and Greece) to be harshly repressed in others.  Likewise the 98% figure is based on one of a variety of ways of measuring our genetic identity, and Marks points out that it was manipulated in such a way so that chimpanzees would appear closer to us than to gorillas.  Obviously we and chimpanzees are very close genetically, but how can we tell whether a trait in chimpanzees explains an aspect of human society?  The possibilities are that a) it does reflect a common inherent trait of both species b) it reflects a common trait that humans evolved out of or c) it reflects a trait that evolved in chimpanzees after they differentiated from our ancestors.  We cannot simply tell by just looking, and without a genetic explanation.  As for the identical twins, think about it a little more closely.  How could the choice of one's profession, the shape of one's moustache, the name we give our dog, or the name of the person who decides to marry us, possibly be genetically determined.  It is too good to be true, and it usually is (more likely the reason is sureptitious contact between the \\"separated\\" twins.)<br />Marks goes on to provide many other interesting asides, such as why black athletes are not \\"genetically\\" superior to others.  He discusses the strange tale of \\"Kennewick Man\\" reported in the media as a Caucasian skeleton that American Indians politically correctly wanted to take away from the scientists who wanted to study it and bury it so it would not refute their beliefs that they were in America first.  Marks points out a whole list of problems with this account, starting with the important fact that you cannot tell that a skeleton is \\"Caucasian\\" from examining it, and then pointing out a number of other non-sequiturs the scientists used to keep the skeleton from its legal owners.  Marks also provides good reasons not to panic over cloning, as well as good reasons not to give apes human rights (simple answer; they're not human).  He also points out the long history of \\"projection\\" in which scientists saw their own societies reflected in their studies of primates.  For people who know little about molecular anthropology, Marks provides a helpful introduction.	2002-10-29
US	52562171	R1961FKED9IGVP	0198203144	482084892	British Policy and the Weimar Republic, 1918-1919	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Peace Without Justice	In the public mind, the treaty of Versailles is considered a fine example of how NOT to conduct a peace treaty.  However, for the past several decades, scholars have been arguing that the treaty was not unreasonable.  Certainly, the way Hitler used the problems of Danzig and the Polish Corridor to kill two-ninths of the population of Poland encouraged people to think that Germany was not too hard done by in 1919.  Many scholars have argued that French reparation plans actually were part of a complex and reasonable plan of reviving the European economy, and anyway the Germans whined their way out of all but a fraction of the bill.  And, many argue, wouldn't an ever harder peace have done much to prevent Hitler from coming to power?  Such are the arguments of the \\"realists\\" in defence of the treaty.<br />Douglas Newton's book deals with British policy towards the Weimar republic, both the first several months of the latter's existence, and British propaganda encouraging an overthrow of the Kaiser.  It starts off rather dryly, but gets better as it goes along.  It is massively documented, based on no fewer than 16 sets of Government papers, private papers from more than fifty archives, dozens of memoirs as well as dozens as newspapers.  And it is a valuable work as it shows the failure of an earlier \\"realist\\" version of British diplomacy.  <br />For propaganda purposes the British claimed, not inaccurately, to be fighting an aggressive Prussian autocracy, and at times they claimed to distinguish between the German government and its people.  At times they claimed to desire a democratic government for Germany, which would hopefully encourage the peace of the world.  In point of fact they cared little for this goal and had no serious strategy for encouraging it, achieving it or maintaining it.  By 1917 the British government was dominated by Conservatives fronted by the charisma of Liberal prime minister Lloyd George.  They failed to see that the threat was not from Germany, but from authoritarian and imperialist impulses.  Being imperialist and authoritarian themselves, the Tories preferred to believe that all Germans were collectively guilty.  The result was a whirlwind of cant and self-serving rhetoric.  Massive amounts of well qualified evidence on the seriousness of Weimar's democratic beliefs and the hardships suffered by the Allied blockade were dismissed on the words of limited, unqualifed and secret sources; chauvinist publishers ignored or distorted the reports of their correspondents; \\"realists\\" spread rumours that a prostate Germany was funding strikes and subversion across Europe or that the Kaiser was to be restored and that the revolution was a simple fraud.  Although Wilhelm II was denounced as a tyrant, Tories argued that the Germans were fully responsible for his acts, and when they did overthrow him, that was insufficient to remove their guilt.  The revolution was declared to be unconvincing, yet at the same time the British denounced those revolutionary socialists who had always opposed the war, refused democratic town council elections and disbanded the soldiers' councils wherever they met them.  The British opposed all advice to bolster the democratic government--yet they claimed that the revolution was insufficiently consolidated.<br />Newton is quite good on the subject of reparations.  He points out that the British were aware that this violated the Lansing Note which they were morally bound to.  He points out that Tories supported reparations from Germany because it was preferrably to levying higher taxes on the rich, and that instead of reforming British industry to make it more productive than Germany's they preferred to swamp Germany with trade restrictions.  Newton also points out the British were not forced into a harsh stance by popular opinion.  Much of the electorate was apathetic (turnout was only 57% and the soldier's vote was much less), by-elections soon turned against the government, the mediawere after all strongly Tory in the first place and were closely connected to the government, and in fact Lloyd George made key measures to encourage an irresponsibly high figure before popular opinion made any claim on the matter.  Newton points out that there were good military reasons for the British accepting the armistice when they did, since there were strains in their forces, and a delay would only increase the United States' influence.  Newton is very good, if somewhat tedious, in explaining the different factions within the government, such as the coalition parties, the Foreign Office, the Political Intelligence Department, the press and the economic lobbies.  But would a softer treaty have made any difference?  Trying to prove this would be impossible, and Newton's argument is somewhat weak here.  But he points out that the British had no objections to the SPD alliance with the army when it was used against radicals.  Most important he demonstrates that they never had any real interest in supporting a democratic government.  The Allies only sought to impose external constraints on Germany, and never really considered internal ones.  As one prominent official said \\"I don't care a <BR>d--- about democracy; but I do care a great deal about beating the Hun.\\"  Ironically, many of those who most denounced the German Republic (Kerr, the media barons) were those most willing to appease Hitler.  Disaster upon disaster.	2002-10-24
US	52562171	R2CI9RFDD4ELTY	0375407391	907670679	The Writer and the World: Essays	Books	3	28	40	N	N	3.4 Stars	What can one say about V.S. Naipaul the essayist?  This collection contains most of the shorter pieces that have made his reputation.  There are the beginning pieces on India, and there are the well-known essays on Michael X, on Mobutu, on the collapse of Argentina in the 1970s. There are also the later pieces on the failed Grenadian revolution and on Cheddi Jagan, the Marxist Guyanan politician who was kept out of power by American and British electoral skullduggery.  There are also several essays on America, including ones on Steinbeck, a surprisingly uncontemptuous piece on Norman Mailer's 1969 mayoralty campaign and a particularly perceptive piece on the 1984 Republican convention.   And finally there is the concluding essay \\"Our Universal Civilization.\\" <br />Surely there is much to support the opinion of Naipaul's enthusiastic followers who at the same time have praised him for refuting liberal sentimentalities.  There is the fine readable prose and the cutting observation.  One notes this in the essay about the election campaign in India where the conservative candidate spouts pseudo-Gandhian rhetoric about the purity of agriculture in a land of desperate poverty.  The candidate even says that piped water would only make the women who spend several hours going back and forth to wells lazy.  There is the theme of a lethal sentimentality:  On the Jan Singh party \\"Like parties of the extreme right elsewhere, the Jan Singh dealt in anger, simplified scholarship and, above all, sentimentality.\\"  On Steinbeck:  \\"His sentimentality, when prompted by anger and conscience, was part of his strength as a writer.  Without anger or the cause of anger he writes fairy-tales.\\"  On Republican Party Ideology:  \\"Americanism had become the conservative cause, and Americanism was most easily grasped, most ideal and most sentimental (sentimentality being important to any cause of the right) in comic books...and the lesser cinema.\\"  In the essay on the return of Peronism there aremany caustic remarks against Jorge Luis Borges, about Borges' failure to critically analyze his country's past, the theme of racial degeneration in his work, and his tasteless jokes about the systematically slaughtered Argentinean Indians.  Likewise, there is some truth when Naipaul says of Argentina that \\"...to be European in Argentina was to be colonial in the most damaging way.  It was to be parasitic.  It was to claim...the achievements and authority of Europe as one's own\\", even if it is more true of, say, Canada.  And certainly many of the essays are very powerful: such as the essay on Michael X, a self-serving thug and hustler who prattled \\"Black Power\\" rhetoric in Trinidad before murdering two followers and being hanged for them.  <br />One should criticize his view of Islam, starting with his use of the term \\"Mohammedan.\\"  Naipaul argues that the imperial conquests of Islam were especially nasty in the way that the Arab culture simply denounced the pre-existing culture into oblivion.  This is an oversimplification for several reasons.  First off, the examples he uses, Pakistan and Iran in 1979, are not typical even of those countries' long histories, let alone of other countries like Indonesia or Nigeria.  Secondly, one can find equally boneheaded comments in the history of Christianity, whether it is of Augustine and other church fathers dismissing Aristotle and Plato, or the Protestant Reformation's lack of enthusiasm for the Renaissance.  Thirdly, what about Christianity and American Indians?<br />Nevertheless when one looks at the essays on Mobutu's Zaire, now collapsed into brutal civil war, or at the essays on Argentina before the Dirty War or the nervous essay on the Ivory Coast before President Houphouet-Boigny apparently \\"successful\\" rule collapsed into disaster.  Surely one can only praise Naipaul for his prophetic talents, for the courage of his pessimism?  Quite frankly, I have some doubts.  If sentimentality is unearned emotion, it should be remembered that pessimism can be unearned as well.  Consider the essays, written more than thirty years ago, about Belize and Mauritius.  They are just as pessimistic as the others, about mass unemployment, overpopulation and empty politics. Notwithstanding that the two small countries have remained democratic states for the past three decades, not something one would have predicted from Naipaul.   The concentration on superstition and magic can be amusing:  Naipaul relates a report about an old Indian sage who claimed that he was now able to walk on water, arranged an elaborate demonstration, and promptly sank.  But whether it is India, or the Ivory Coast, or Argentina, Naipaul is always looking for something silly or superstitious and this palls.   There is much that is depressing about Argentina: but to say that Argentina has produced nothing more than New Zealand is cheap, and Naipaul does not even bother to mention Sabato, Cortazar or Puig, who might challenge this view.  It also strikes me as gross oversimplification, to say the least, that the essence of Argentine sexuality is brutal heterosexual sodomy.   There is something profoundly unhelpful about all this:  professional pessimists too have the luxury of having return tickets in their pockets, and when conservatives praise Naipaul one feels that it is because he grants his subjects just enough freedom to justify their condemnation into hell.	2002-10-24
US	52562171	R35QQCDSKFHURH	0679463348	952782573	Step Across This Line: Collected Nonfiction 1992-2002	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Intelligent, 3.7 stars	This is the second collection of non-fiction by Salman Rushdie and like its predecessor \\"Imaginary Homelands,\\" it covers a decade's worth of writing.  Unlike the previous volume it contains fewer book reviews and literary criticism.  Instead, it can be divided into four parts.  More than half the book consists of various essays and articles.  The second consists of articles Rushdie wrote against the fatwa imposed on him by the Iranian theocracy for writing \\"The Satanic Verses.\\"  The third consists of the monthly columns he has been writing for the past few years and the fourth consists of the title essay.<br />What is the result?  Let's start off with the columns, which are generally the weakest part of the book.  They are mostly unremarkable journalism and are often facile.  Particular examples would include Rushdie's pieces on the new millenium, an outburst of creationism in Kansas, the rise of Jorg Haider and the apotheosis of Joseph Lieberman.  But not all of them are so average.  There are good pieces on the crisis in Kashmir, the military regime in Pakistan, the campaign against destructive and wasteful Indian dams, and the civil war in Fiji.  There is a rather sharp and critical piece against J.M. Coetzee's \\"Disgrace.\\"  He has an amusing jibe against James Cameron's claim that his remake of \\"Solaris\\" will combine \\"2001\\" with \\"Last Tango in Paris\\":  ...There is one particular turn of his phrase in his article on the police killing of Amadou Diallo.  Rushdie states that it would be \\"unimaginably awful\\" to have Diallo's killers patrolling the street, and then he stops himself:  it would all be too \\"imaginably awful\\" to have that, given the persistence of police brutality and the ineffective measures against it.  There is also his denunciation of V.S. Naipaul for his callous response to the pogroms in Gujarat.<br />A reader may have concluded from the previous paragraph that much of Rushdie's best writing is about India and the Indian subcontinent.  And while this is not true of all his writing (one highpoint of \\"Imaginary Homelands,\\" was a lovely review of \\"If on a Winter's Night a Traveller\\") it is largely true of this one.  There are good pieces on Gandhi, the 50th anniversary of Indian independence, and Indian literature in English, as well as an account of his return to India.  The latter is quite good on the sinister BJP government, the impotence of the Congress party, and the widespread corruption, poverty and sectarianism.  India, Naipaul once commented, is not a very subtle country, and Rushdie reminds us of that fact in the contrast between billions spent on nuclear weapons instead of relieving the horrible droughts that ravage much of the country.  It is actually rather honest of Rushdie to include a paragraph which in retrospect somewhat belittles the terrorist threat from Afghanistan, when it would have been easier to highlight those columns which supported the American overthrow of the Taliban.  One striking article is a short one Rushdie wrote on the Taj Mahal.  He notes how the building is a classic example of kitsch and cliche, and how the entrance is surrounded by swarms of unpleasant peddlers.  He also notes that it was in fact the British who preserved the building from the 19th century onwards.  But notwithstanding all these reservations Rushdie points out that the Taj Mahal is still a stunningly beautiful building.  Rusdhie also includes an interesting essay about the unsuccessful filming of \\"Midnight's Children,\\" which was scotched because the governments of India and Sri Lanka rather cowardly and bigotedly refused to allow the BBC to film there. <br />There is a certain element of nostalgia in some of the other pieces.  One can see it in the review of the Rolling Stones' 1994 concert.  It is also present in the long essay on \\"The Wizard of Oz,\\" which is full of many interesting details about the movie (Frank Morgan's coat was bought second-hand and it turned out to have been owned by L. Frank Baum himself), and where Rushdie makes some piccuant comments.  (Such as that the conclusion to the movie is a cop-out, and less often remarked on, that if the Wicked Witch of the East is so evil, how come the Munchkins live in a such a pleasant and attractive place?)  Rushdie clearly admires the film as a seminal experience in opening his mind, and says little about the novels.  (He seems unaware of Baum's socialist and rather daringly feminist ideas-one central point of the later novels is how one character changes from a boy to a girl).  There is a rather weak essay in response to George Steiner's comments on the decline of the European novel.  Rushdie may be able to name 13 great novelists of the past half century.  But none of these are of the stature of Proust or Kafka, and one could name far more from the first half of the 20th century.  On the other hand there is an interesting essay about soccer (Rushdie is a fan), and the articles where he writes in his own defence are important to read.  They are not important to read simply because Rushdie is a brilliant writer being attacked by a cruel theocracy, but also because they remind us that he is not alone, that brave people are struggling to support secularism and democracy in the Muslim world, and whether in Turkey or in Bosnia or in India, they deserve our support.  As a result this book reminds us more of the author of \\"The Satanic Verses,\\" and \\"Shame,\\" rather than of \\"Fury\\" and \\"The Ground Beneath Her Feet.\\"	2002-10-06
US	52562171	R3PY8UB51E5T02	1859844219	486543376	Welcome to the Desert of the Real: Five Essays on September 11 and Related Dates	Books	4	122	130	N	N	Reality as illusion	To people who come to this book looking for an analysis of the attacks on the World Trade Center this book will appear to be peculiar and eccentric, and therefore in questionable taste.  Slavoj Zisek is a Marxist philosopher from the formerly Yugoslav republic of Slovenia.  (At the same time he is quite caustic against those who think that Milosevic's horrors could have been avoided by an appeal to the cosmopolitan virtues of Titoism.  Not within the party framework, at any rate.)  He has a special interest in the French psychoanalyst Lacan, which does not stop him from discussing other imposing figures such as Hegel, Adorno, Foucault and, suprisingly in this book, G.K. Chesterton.  At the same time he discusses popular movies from \\"Unbreakable\\" to \\"Shrek.\\"  Like Terry Eagleton he has a fondness, and a weakness, for paradox and contradiction.  A person examining this book will note that the five essays are not as concise and straightforward as they may appear.  (They will also note that this book has six chapters.)  The unsympathetic reader may wonder how we get from the events of September 11th to sado-masochism and \\"The Piano Teacher,\\" to Judith Butler and Antigone.  Given the bottomless malice of Al Qaidya towards any concept of freedom, surely, one might state, it is irresponsible to say that freedom of thought is the surest way of ensuring submission and control (as Zisek suggests in his introduction)?  <br />In fact, Zisek is a stimulating and important writer and the reader should take the effort to appreciate him.  To the extent that this book has a thesis it is expressed on the cover.  Instead of the attacks forcing the United States to rethink its attitude towards the rest of the world, it has allowed itself to view itself solely as a victim.  By contrast \\"That is the true lesson of the attacks:  the only way to ensure that it will not happen here again is to prevent it happening anywhere else.\\"  At the same time Zisek is vehement against those who showeda certain schaudenfreude at American suffering, or those tempted to euphemize Palestianian suicide bombers.  On the Islamists themselves, Zisek makes an interesting point against those who wish for a \\"Protestant\\" reformation for Islam.  There already has been one.  Like Protestantism, the Wahabbi sect that rules Saudi Arabia rejects the accretions and growths of Islam over the previous centuries as so much quasi-pagan superstition.  Like Protestantism it emphasizes holy scripture and even offers suggestions for a more practical bible interpretation.  Clearly, this is not enough.  Elsewhere Zisek points out that in a way political Islam is Islamic fascism, in the sense that it seeks a capitalism without capitalism, or a capitalism with its destabilizing effects.<br />Elsewhere Zisek has stimulating things to say about \\"The Matrix\\" from which he extracts his title, and about the way that movie and others like \\"The Truman Show,\\" reflect a nervous anxiety that \\"our\\" suburban life is something unreal.  At the same time, one cannot unproblematically search for the real, a la Orwell, a certain harmony with fantasy is crucial to Lacanian good health.  There are interesting comments on suicide as the expression not of certainty, but of doubt, not as sacrifice, but as evasion.  His comments on \\"Shrek\\" will be of great comfort to all those who think that film over-rated:  it is a movie which overturns all conventions yet at the same time only reaffirms them.  Zisek cautions against the use of \\"proto-fascist\\": not all criticisms of decadence or invocations of discipline are fascist--consider the example of Schoenberg.  He also notes that the private sphere is becoming a commodified space.  The only way, he suggests, for true love to exist is not for the lovers to stare into each others eyes but at some sort of collectivity outside them.  He is especially angry at Jonathan Alter and Alan Dershowitz for suggesting the torture of terrorists.  As he quite properly points out, if torturing terrorists could save lives, then the torturing of prisoners of wars would saveeven more.  Although at one point he argues that anti-Americanism is most common in countries that have lost their influence, like France and Germany, he argues that it is vitally necessary for a European response to provide an alternative to American diplomacy.  On this point, I fully agree.	2002-10-02
US	52562171	R26NAQ7D55VJ4H	0525946764	907715751	Jump the Shark: When Good Things Go Bad	Books	2	22	32	N	N	Cheap and Easy	On first sight, the idea of \\"jumping the shark\\" seems like an irresistable parlor game of deciding when good things go bad.  This book does not merely apply it to television shows as did the original website, but also to celebrities, sports teams and political bodies (for example, Iraq jumped the shark with Hussein's Republican Guard).  It is easy to apply the metaphor to other things.  For example, the Oscars jumped the shark in its very first ceremony when instead of giving the best picture award to \\"Sunrise,\\" one of a handful of truly great movies, it gave it to the sentimental war romance \\"Wings.\\"  (It also passed up the opportunity to give Charlie Chaplin its first best Actor award).  When did THE NEW REPUBLIC jump the shark?  Was it when Martin Peretz became the publisher?  When the sinister Michael Ledeen became its corresondent from Italy?  Or during the 1982 invasion of Lebanon?  The concept SEEMS like a source of endless amusement.<br />But it isn't, and problems soon start cropping up.  It's not just the sloppiness with facts (the Sgt. Pepper movie the Bee Gees made came out in 1978 not 1979, Agent Scully was abducted in the second, not the third season of the X-Files.)  There is also much to be said against Hein's judgement.  Did David Bowie really lose it in the mid-seventies?  After all \\"Boys Keep Swinging\\" and \\"Ashes to Ashes\\" are classic singles, while \\"Jump They Said,\\" \\"The Heart's Filthy Lesson,\\" and even \\"Time Will Crawl\\" are clearly underappreciated gems.  Many critics actually think Prince's \\"Sign O the Times,\\" is a fine album.  How can \\"The Sopranos\\" have jumped the shark at the end of the third season, before Hein had seen any episodes from the fourth?  And what are shows like \\"Gilligan's Island,\\" or \\"Three's Company\\" doing here, when they were always dreadful and unwatchable?<br />Well, that's just his opinion, one might say.  Except it isn't, since the website for the shows the shark pinpoint is done by public balloting.  Hein, in other words, does not have the courage of his convictions.  More important, the book is not an expression of a critical temperament, but the abdication of it.  There is no real argument to Hein's assertions that say, \\"Friends\\" fell apart after the third season, or that \\"Zooropa\\" is a poor album, or that Paul Newman's career ended with \\"The Colour of Money\\".  Instead of critical analysis, there are just blunt assertions and cheap put-downs. How else could one explain Hein's decision to put Yoko Ono as the turning point for the Beatles, and not mention the white ablum at all, which came after her appearance.  How is it that the turning point for the Democratic Party is choosing Geraldine Ferraro as its vice-presidential nominee?  Hein objects to the affirmative action element of it, forgetting the decades the party ensured that African Americans would never move above railway car porters.  And what about Vietnam?  <br />What Hein's book represents is not real criticism, but a journalistic substitute.  There is the constant need in our age for articles that are \\"unpredictable\\" and \\"stimulating,\\" but never challenge the right-centrist consensus that we live under.  As an art form this is mastered by the political coverage of THE NEW REPUBLIC.  In cultural criticism instead of the acute cosmpolitan coverage best associated with THE VILLAGE VOICE, we have an irritating superficial chatter where novelty and the exaggerated claim is a substitute for thought.  \\"\\"The Simpsons\\" are in decline!\\" \\"No, it's better than ever!\\"  \\"Guess what, Disco is cool again!\\"  \\"It's now been decided, Fleetwood Mac's \\"Rumours\\" now sucks!\\"  \\"Robert De Niro is in decline!\\"  \\"\\"Gladiator\\" is the front runner for best picture!\\"  This is not criticism at all, simply fashion, a guide to the hip from people who do not have the capacity to create or make critical judgements.	2002-09-27
US	52562171	R2J8WRE12LEXTL	0300080778	560412017	Christianity and Paganism in the Fourth to Eighth Centuries	Books	4	60	64	N	N	When Christians do really bad things.	Concise, elegant, massively documented and beautifully endnoted, Ramsay MacMullen's book is a devastating account of the rise of Christianity and the destruction of Paganism.  With 85 pages of notes to 159 pages of text, with widespread use of primary sources, archeological evidence and the secondary literature, MacMullen's book is an exhaustive update of Gibbon for the present day.  The book consists of four chapters, those being Christian Persecution, the losses of the Pagans, the rise of superstition and the assimilation of pagan elements into Christian practice.  I think Stalin would find it grimly amusing reading, since it suggests that whatever success Christianity achieved was by fanaticism and violence.  We start off with an account of how Christians systematically suppressed non-Christian works, as well as the \\"heretics\\" amongst themselves.  We hear Eusebius, the first great Church historian, announce that it is not the duty to tell the whole truth but only what is of profit.  Students of the Russian Revolution will remember the gruesome story of the child who informed on his \\"kulak\\" parents, was murdered by his relatives, and became the hero of a gruesome cult.  In this book we hear how the emperor Justinian was moved to raptures on hearing of how a Jewish boy convert survived being thrown into a furnace by his father.  Justinian learned how angels prevented the boy from being burned, and then he had the father crucified.  <br />Persecution:  MacMullen challenges those who argues that Christianity was an improvement for women and slaves.  Women did play some role in leading Pagan cults, none at all in Christianity, and he tells how while a pagan governor demanded the compensation for the family of a murdered prostitute, Saint Jerome supported beheading for extramarital fornication.  He discusses how exorcisms, resurrections, and healings played a greater role in conversions than sermons or reasoned argument.  He discusses the increasingly bloodthirsty demands of bishops, monks and imperial decrees as well as pointing out the weaknesses of the bureaucratic machinery.  <br />Cost to the Persecuted:  MacMullen notes how Constantine still claimed a sort of divine status for himself and his father.  He discusses the joyous pagan festivals, including feasts, dancing, poetry orations and their long presistence despite the opposition of the bishops (Augustine tried to argue that giving friends presents was wicked).  MacMullen also gives accounts of pagans who thought idols had actual magical powers. He discusses the destruction of pagan temples and shrines, as well as the cutting down of sacred trees.<br />Superstition: MacMullen discusses the shifiting attitude from the rational world view of Pliny, Seneca and Plotinus and the increase in credulity throughout the third and fourth centuries.  MacMullen argues that this was a result of changes in the elite as more vulgar and less literate people increased their predominance.  Whatever the merits of this thesis, MacMullen points our the contempt prominent Christians such as Tertullian, Augustine, Lactantius, Ambrose and John Chrysostom had for ancient philosophy.  They denounced Plato and Aristotle by name, and mocked the idea of skeptical study and the scientific attitude.  Nor did they stop there.  They told stories about appartitions over the battlefield, miraculous cures, the everpresent existence of demons, people raised to life by Christians, and dragons turned to dust by the sign of the cross.<br />Assimilation:  Here I have some slight disagreement with MacMullen's account.  The fact that some pagan practices continued into Christianity does not mean that they are pagan survivals.  People who put pennies on the deceased's eyes do not literally believe that Charon will ferry their soul across the Styx, anymore than people concerned about 13 are remembering Judas Iscariot's presence at the last supper.  A practice may continue long after any of Paganism's original ideological content has vanished.  One should look at Ronald Hotton's books on the ritual year and witchcraft to understand more.  Nevertheless MacMullen provides much information about the assimilation of dancing, festival meals for the dead, and the growth about the cult of martyrs.  He tells how angels and martyrs took the place of minor deities who heard the wishes that would have been apparently too petty to relate to God.  Christianity also assimilated practices like valorizing the dust around certain shrines and the plants that grew there, as well as amulets and ankhs used to ward off disasters, while images of Jesus and other Christian figures spread throughout the world.  \\"The triumph of the church was not one of obliteration but of widening embrace and assimilation,\\" concludes MacMullen, and it is the weakness of Christian efforts which mitigates an otherwise brutal history.	2002-09-22
US	52562171	R1LLBIKMS6UTVR	0465030491	190590158	Why Orwell Matters	Books	3	115	159	N	N	Saint Orwell, or Eric is always right	...or almost always right.  Welcome to Christopher Hitchens' paean to his hero.  Let's look at the virtues of this polemic in praise of everybody's favorite Socialist.  Hitchens is his usual sharp and amusing self, and he covers a wide number of areas in his defense of Orwell.  He claims for Orwell a special prescience in three areas, in opposing imperialism, fascism and communism.  He challenges Orwell's leftist critics, such as Edward Said, Salman Rushdie, Isaac Deutscher, while reserving special animus against Raymond Williams.  At the same time he criticizes those who would claim Orwell for the COMMENTARY right, most especially the egregious Norman Podheretz, but also noting Orwell's difficulties with T.S. Eliot in the publication of \\"Animal Farm\\", and the way he criticized James Burnham for power worship.  Then we're off to looking at Orwell's views on America and the UK, where Hitchens seeks to show that Orwell was not a simple minded British patriot.  Then we get a chapter of Orwell's views on women, the controversial list of fellow travellers he gave to the British government, and the quality of his novels.  Finally Hitchens praises Orwell for the clarity of his writing, in contrast to Adorno and Claude Simon, and ends with a coda about Auden.<br />Hitchens provides much in defense of his hero.  He quotes a pompously obtuse attack by John Major that must be read to be believed.  He quotes the best passage from \\"Keep the Aspidistra Flying\\" where the protagonist bookseller gushes insincerely about the \\"Englishness\\" of Galsworthy and Priestly.   Hitchens does admit his hero a few flaws.  Orwell did have a prejudice against homosexuals, and he was willfully obtuse about Auden's \\"Spain\\", where it is obvious that Auden is using \\"necessary murder\\" in irony.  The early novels all have serious flaws, and Orwell was not entirely comfortable in his attitude towards women.  However, Hitchens points out that Orwell was so fair minded that he sought to change a passage in\\"Animal Farm\\" that he thought was unfair to Stalin.<br />Reservations?  Oh yes.  At one point Hitchens says that while he is defending Orwell from his critics he also seeks to save Orwell from his saccharine admirers.  He objects to calling Orwell a saint for two reasons.  First, Hitchens is a very vehement atheist.  Second, and more important, Orwell, in his essay on Gandhi, famously said that saints should be considered guilty until proven innocent, and Hitchens would prefer a more lenient standard of judgement.  For a start, Hitchens is extremely unfair to Claude Simon, who appears as a deceitful fellow traveller, on the basis of a few uncomplimentary passages of one chapter of one novel, The Georgics, an extremely complex and difficult novel that should not be judged this way.  He sneers at Simon's style (based on Faulkner's) and makes the witless comment that Simon is trying to describe the thought processes of a man he never met (someone call the National Guard! Tolstoy and Joyce and practicing telepathy without a licence!)  He describes Simon's admirers as \\"pseudo-intellectuals\\" which does not seem to me a fair way of describing Roger Shattuck or Martin Seymour-Smith.<br />Another problem.  At one point Hitchens notes Orwell occasionally made callous and insensitive comments about Jews, but he doesn't quote any.  Compare this in contrast to the insinuations he made against Richard Crossman in \\"For the Sake of Argument.\\"  It is hard to believe that if Crossman had made the obtusely misogynist comment Orwell made in his essay on George Gissing, Hitchens would let it go unmentioned.  Nor does it appear to me that if Crossman had made the list Orwell did, Hitchens would assume it was done out of the highest of motives.  About Orwell's prescience, Hitchens himself admits that Orwell himself was so disgusted with the Popular Front, that he opposed fighting Hitler up to the Nazi-Soviet pact.  And in praising Orwell as a brave anti-communist of the left, in the tradition of Serge and Souvarine, Hitchens emphasises his marginality and unpopularity.  But what about the anti-communism of Ebert and Noske, Faure and Bevin?  This would not make Orwell look so brave, or so heroic.  And one wonders whether the mainstream press will give Helen Graham's upcoming book on the Spanish Republic the same attention that they give this book.  Hitchens praises Orwell for his support of European Union, but would he have been so enthusiastic about the EEC in the fifties when the three main countries, France, Italy and Germany were dominated by political Catholicism?<br />I can't help adding that the essay Hitchens mentions about Mark Twain was not as long, or as complimentary, or as insightful as Hitchens suggests.  Nor do I believe that Orwell's statement that he could never hate Hitler was as perceptive as Hitchens claims.  Among the admirers of Orwell one often encounters a double standard:  your (feminist, ethnic) objections are petty and sectarian and should be ignored for the good of the common struggle; while my objections (against vegetarians and sandal wearers) reflect my high moral tone and the strength and purity of my convictions.  They are not subject to compromise.  Against those who criticize Orwell for encouraging apathy, Hitchens portrays him a matchless figure of unquestionable independence.  Yet in Hitchens' writing one finds little discussion of strategic and tactical questions.  What one does find is a tendency to fixate on certain figures:  Paine, Marx, Trotsky, Luxembourg, Debs, Serge, Mandela, Orwell himself.  This is not a politics:  it is an atheist's martyrology.  And it is not enough, especially in praise of someone who was most things to most people.	2002-09-17
US	52562171	REVVFZ97CGL5L	0300082541	234668421	Romanization in the Time of Augustus	Books	3	11	16	N	N	It's architecture baby!	Ramsay MacMullen's recent book is a copiously documented work which aside from contemporary sources, uses scholarly literature in German, French, Italian and Spanish.  It examines the \\"Romanization\\" of the Empire in the age of Augustus and it concentrates on the East, Africa, Spain and Gaul.  The evidence of romanization is largely architectural and so we read accounts of the diffusion of surveys, structures, the use of marble, coliseums, baths, and food markets.  We hear about the use of gladiator games, the spread of roman frescos, clothes and sculpture as well as the spread of Roman wine instead of continental beer.  We learn about bridge building and road building, and the spread of viniculture.  We learn that the Romans introduced the domestic cat to Gaul.  There is an amusing passage about the cult of the Emperor.  People know that August was named after the first Emperor.  But in Cyprus, all twelve months were named after the Emperor and his family, and Egypt went so far as not only to celebrate September 23, his birthday, but also the 23rd of every month.  <br />But what if you are not interested in the diffusion of Roman architecture?  Then this book is probably not going to be as interesting or helpful.  MacMullen himself admits that though he can show the spread of viniculture, he can tell us little about the social context, such as whether it was based on slavery.  The evidence, by necessity, is overwhelmingly architectural, so what the overwhelming majority of the population thought about these changes isn't clear.  MacMullen emphasizes that these changes were not the result of an oppressive Roman ideology but were accepted by the local elites because they found the new houses, new baths and new frescoes, useful and attractive.  There is probably some truth to this.  But for those who are not interested in the diffusion of Roman architecture, it is not clear why they should especially care about this book.  It does not possess the inherent interest of MacMullen's previous books about Christianity and Paganism.	2002-09-08
US	52562171	R2ED0SPEZVVZ29	0300090722	445608371	Ireland's Holy Wars: The Struggle for a Nation's Soul, 1500-2000	Books	2	19	23	N	N	When journalism isn't scholarship	On the face of it, Marcus Tanner's history of Ireland's religious conflicts looks impressive.  Although Tanner is an English journalist, his book is published by a leading university press, it possesses 39 pages of notes to 431 of text, and its bibliography contains many primary sources as well as considerable research among eccelesiatical journals and centuries old books.  Tanner's thesis, according to the cover is that \\"the roots of the Irish conflict are profoundly and inescapably religious,\\" the consequences of England's failed attempt to turn Ireland into a Protestant country.<br />A closer look reveals some problems.  Tanner has written a history of Ireland while ignoring most of the leading historians of the subject.  Marianne Elliot goes unmentioned, as does everyone's favorite trio of anti-nationalist Marxists, Paul Bew, Henry Patterson and Peter Gibbon.  Nicholas Canny gets only a couple of articles, as does Kevin Whelan.  One of the leading concepts in Irish ecclesiastical history, \\"the denominational revolution\\" goes completely unnoticed, and so does Emmett Larkin.  John Whyte's nuanced history of church-state relations in independent Ireland is nowhere to be found.  Donal Kerr's recent book on the Catholic Church and the famine is ignored.  The economic historiography of Ireland is also passed over, no mention is made whatsoever of Vaughan, Clark, Moody, O'Grada or Kinealy.<br />But then that is not surprising, since the economic history of Ireland is also passed over.  There is no coherent account of the Elizabethan conquest of Ireland or its consequences, outside of its effects on the Catholic church.  The Irish potato famine gets only five pages, and mass emigration gets even less, much less than the disestablishment of the Church of Ireland in 1868.  In fact the \\"religious\\" origins of the struggles is not really coherently presented.  In the first few chapters the \\"Old English\\" and the Celtic inhabitants are shown to be quite capable of quarrellingdespite their common Catholicism.  The Catholic hierarchy shows little sympathy to the 1798 rebellion or to Fenianism, and Tanner spends the relatively few pages on the current \\"Troubles\\" showing the Protestants and Catholics trying to encourage an ecumenical peace.  (The emphasis is on the good will of the Protestant denominations; the role of the Unionist parties, by contrast, isn't even mentioned.  On the other hand Tanner views Ireland's political parties as the Catholic Church's willing toadies.)<br />What we have then is a journalistic effort more eccentric than scholarly.  Much of it consists of journalistic anecdotes, such as the appalling state of Irish butter in the 1500s, or illegitimacy among Irish priests, or Machiavellian Anglican bishops.  As a history of Irish religion it is curiously old-fashioned.  Compared to the sophisticated historiography of the Reformation of such scholars as Christopher Haigh, Ronald Hutton, Gerald Strauss, Eamon Duffy and David Parker, it seems quaint and shallow.  Rather than the sophisticated research about what people actually thought, the depth of their Christian convictions, the chimera of popular \\"paganism\\", the social role played by Christian institutions and other matters what we get is a history that looks at the bishops and the preachers and assumes the diffusion of their efforts.  The last few chapters are particulary unsatisfactory.  Gerrymandering in Derry corporation gets only a paragraph, discrimination and the Special Powers Act in Northern Ireland gets even less, but we get several pages on the rather marginal topic of Catholic anti-semitism.  The final two chapters exude a shallow complacent attitude of \\"modernization\\" sweeping away the dark shadows of Catholicism's influence.<br />The idea that the Irish conflict is a religious one seems like common sense.  Yet there are several major problems with it.  For a start if England had not broke with the Church over Henry VIII's divorce, would the subsequent conquest of Ireland have been any nicer?  There are other problems.  Are the members of Sinn Fein or the Democratic Unionist Party more religious than their compatriots?  Not really.  Only one Catholic priest has died in the Troubles, one accidentally shot by the English army.  Only one Protestant minister has been killed, and he was a leading Unionist politician.  Sinn Fein has actually been more liberal on abortion than the Social Democratic and Labor Party.  Northern Ireland's urban areas are both more violent and less religious than the rest of the province.  In Richard Rose's loyalty survey only 8% of Protestants volunteered that they disliked the Irish Republic because of interference by the Catholic Church.  It is not clear that denominational education are encouraging sectarian struggle (they don't in Canada).  Tanner does not really discuss any of these matters.  Ultimately, this is a book which sheds less light on Ireland than on the limits of journalism.	2002-09-03
US	52562171	R2SBWRPTGYWUHI	0300090218	365419541	The Strange Death of American Liberalism	Books	2	9	18	N	N	Pretty Vacant	What do you think of when you hear the word \\"liberalism\\"?  The civil rights movements, the bill of rights, feminism, the separation of church of state?  Well that's not what H.W. Brands is thinking about.  Brands is referring to the belief in big government.  Americans were consistently hostile to big government until military necessity forced them to create one.  Liberalism existed as long as the cold war lasted to give it life and in the aftermath of the Vietnam war and detente people naturally lost their interest in it.  So naturally they turned to Reagan who then restarted the cold war and was politically successful even though most Americans were not particularly enthused about his program.  <br />As we can see, clarity is not one of Brands' virtues.  (He also is not very good in defining what \\"conservatism\\" means.) In fact this is a short, superficial (yet padded) work that adds nothing to our knowledge.  Indeed it is little more than a regurgitation of the conventional wisdom, which is done with more wit and panache in The New Republic.  In such writing one must be continually interesting yet never actually challenge the bromides of the time.  So what we have is a cheap form of paradox:  the success of liberalism was the result of the cold war, Nixon was really a liberal, that sort of thing.<br />We have to define liberalism more closely.  If liberalism is dead, it does not mean that \\"big government\\" is dead, since the size of the government has not changed very much over time.  If liberalism is dead, it does not mean that the American government does not have considerable power, since it has a military regime second to none.  That it uses its considerable offices to ensure free trade rather than cut infant mortality or stop AIDS leads us to political questions, and political choices, that Brands does not really discuss.  <br />Let us look at those parts of the liberal agenda which are particularly unpopular or unlikely to pass; abolition of the death penalty, revival of trade unions, systematic economic reforms to counter deindustrialization, national health insurance, national daycare, a civil rights agenda that moves beyond the laws of the sixties.  Not all of these are unpopular, not all of these require \\"big government.\\"  They are currently in limbo for complex reasons which Brands does not touch on and does not provide much help in discussing.  There is nothing on unions, nothing on feminism.  There is nothing on the structures of the political parties or federalism or the congressional and electoral system.  But allo these encourage certain vested elites over others, which ensure delay and resistance at every turn.  There is no mention of Thomas Sugrue's Origins of the Urban Crisis which shows that even before the Voting Rights Act, let alone black power, that Detroit whites and other Northerners were not willing to pay the price needed for integration.  (For no very good reason, Brands argues Americans lost their faith in government a decade later, as a result of revelations of CIA skullduggery.)  <br />What we have is a book in which \\"popular opinion\\" is treated as an autonomous force and the not the result of past political struggles.  (And the polling evidence he cites is a crude simplification of a complex reality.) There is also an unhelpful tendency to link the passage of every successful reform in the fifties and sixties to national security.  This is clearly misleading; as Patricia Sullivan noted, civil rights reform was making progress in the thirties and the forties before the cold war intervened.  I doubt very few minds were changed because some people suggested that the South made the United States look bad in the eyes of the world.  The portrait of the liberal Nixon is likewise flawed:  Nixon did have to face a democratic Congress, who after all were responsible for passing much of the legislation that Brands gives sole credit to Nixon for.  His praise of Nixon's \\"generous\\" welfare program ignores the work of Jill Quadagno and Rickie Solinger (who points out the demagogic campaigns against welfare fraud at this time).  As for Nixon's foreign policy, Brands ignores the fact that Nixon extended the Vietnam war for four years without gaining anything that could have been achieved in 1969, and at the price of dragging Cambodia into the war.  On questions of disarmament, the Israel-Arab conflict, Angola, Apartheid, the Pakistan-Indian war, and Latin America, Nixon's foreign policy was as anti-Soviet and belligerent as any conservative could ask for.  It is true that conservatives did not always recognize this, but so what?  Stalwarts of the right such as William F. Buckley and John Wayne could all agree that Ronald Reagan did not know what he was talking about in opposing the Panama Canal treaty.  Brands ignores continuities:  notwithstanding the rhetoric of the war on poverty, LBJ and Clinton both thought that poverty was largely the result of the behavioral problems of the poor and underplayed the economic forces that encouraged it.  Brands is a noticeably prolific historian.  This volume is a good argument for writer's block.	2002-08-26
US	52562171	R29BPG7WXFEWB6	0691090157	147364893	The Furies: Violence and Terror in the French and Russian Revolutions.	Books	3	26	29	N	N	The thesis is strong, but the argument is weak	Arno Mayer's \\"The Furies\\" show the qualities that were present in his two previous works on, respectively, pre-1914 Europe and the Holocaust.  They are based on secondary sources, and they clearly articulate a theme that had been percolating through the historiography of their subject.  \\"The Furies\\" is a comparative history of the French and English revolutions and is divided into five parts.  The first deals with \\"conceptual signposts\\" such as revolution, counterrevolution, violence, terror, vengeance and religion.  The second part is an overview of the process of the terror, the third looks at \\"metropolitian condescension and rural distrust,\\" the fourth looks at the revolutions' challenges to the bigotry of the established church and the fifth looks at the international context of Napoleon and Stalin.<br />Why did the Furies arise?  Mayer emphasizes such aggravating factors as domestic and foreign counter-revolution, the collapse of the old state, and personal and popular vengenace.  There was considerable ideological fanaticism, but it was as much effect as cause of the violence.  On Russia he declares \\"Even in normal times, let alone in a time of troubles, Russia defied governance as a single unit--a single sovereignty--by virtue not only of its sheer expanse but also its bewildering diversity of cultures, its uneven levels of development, its primitive state of transport, and its encumbrance by a torpid peasant world.  The rich but refractory endowment of vastness, diversity, and unsimultaneity was at least as burdensome as the enduring deficit of democratic thought and praxis.\\" (233-34)<br />Although there is much to be said that for that last statment, ultimately this is a disappointing book.  A synthesis is rarely more than the sum of its part and Mayer's work suffers from the fact that the literature on French and Russian terror is less sophisticated than work on, say, the Holocaust.  Mayer cannot read Russian, and while he can read French he is not an expert on 18th century French history.  Much of the book consists of competent, uninspired narrative detailing the course of atrocities (but oddly enough omits the Prairial executions).<br />There are other conceptual weaknesses.  Mayer states (4) that revolutions cannot exist without religious conflict.  But the Chinese civil war and revolution cannot really be considered one.  His discussion of peasant rebellion in France does not emphasize that much of Peasant France either did not rebel or did support the republic (326-28).  He dismisses the American revolution as insufficiently revolutionary (26) on the grounds that it was a \\"restoration\\"; but this begs the question of how the American colonies received these glorious institutions in the first place. <br />The comparative discussion on Napoleon and Stalin is too long (533-701) and much of it consists of padded history.  Oddly enough Mayer does not mention Orlando Figes' vicious circle of conscription:  the Bolsheviks needed to form an army but economic crisis made them unable to feed it.  So mass desertion resulted, requiring further conscription and more strains on the economy.  Nor does he mention the arguments of Lars Lih and William G. Rosenberg on the pervasiveness of the economic crisis.<br />More could have be done to criticize the ideological determinism of the Furet school.  More use could have been made of Timothy Tackett's massively documented work on the National Assembly and about their pragmatic, non-philosophe nature.  Mayer could have mentioned Barry Shapiro and the moderate attitude of the 1789-91 authorities to rumours of counter-revolutionary plots.  He could have noted Emma Rothschild's portrait of a pluralist, liberal Condorcet.  On the other hand Mayer does point out that Burke stated before the outbreak of the war that the revolutionaries had no right to expect civilized warfare (121).  It is interesting to hear de Tocqueville complain that the philosophes are unfairly denigrated in contemporary France (46).  It is important to notes that when Pope Pius VI condemned the Civil Constitution of the clergy he not only criticized its ham-handed nature but the very idea of granting non-Catholics toleration at all (427-30).  Mayer does remind us that counter-revolutionaries are more than capable of terror, and one should remember the 20,000 slaughtered by the Russians in one day in Warsaw in 1794, or the 30,000 killed when Britian suppresed an Irish bid for independence in 1798.  One should especially remember the 150,000 Haitians who died (30% of the total) resisting Napoleon's attempt to re-establish slavery there.  In conclusion there is much to be said for the thesis, but the argument could use more work.	2002-08-19
US	52562171	R24YFDFVP5OHSE	0226273407	452002590	The Passing of an Illusion : The Idea of Communism in the Twentieth Century	Books	2	13	31	N	N	The hero as sober (but brave) anti-communist scholar	The late Francois Furet informs us that this book is not a history of Communism, \\"it is a history of the illusion of Communism during the time in which the USSR lent it consistency and vitality.\\" (x) The first third of the book first looks at the revolutionary passion and the First World War which made Bolshevism possible, then at the intellectual reaction to the revolution before 1933.  The second half of the book deals with how Communism managed to obtain a powerful hegemony in the European Mind by taking the banner of anti-fascism.  This was most undeserved, since the two ideologies, though genealogically distinct, were morally similar, and at times were even allies.  But after Hitler's death, \\"During this period, Communism no longer had any open enemies in the West; they were hiding or were silent.\\" (384)<br />This book has a number of flaws.  It is very repetitive and it suffers from incompetent proofreaders.  Bela Kun's Communist rebellion is placed in 1910, not 1919 (223).  Victor Serge dies in 1974 instead of 1947 (514n14).  John Lewis Gaddis' surname is turned into \\"Gassis,\\" (548n6) while the dates of an essay by Mona Ozouf are moved a century ahead (552n43).  Meanwhile interwar Yugoslovia and Romania are wrongly described as republics (58).  More importantly, Furet makes sweeping statements about the intellectual climate of Europe based on little or no primary evidence.  Statements such as \\"The Soviet Union was above suspicion\\" in 1945 (391), that in the sixties \\"the prohibition on anti-Communism at this time was as strict as ever,\\" (493) and that on the eve of 1989 \\"anti-Communism was more generally condemned than during the heyday of victorious anti-Fascism\\" (497) are constantly reiterated.  They are not sourced, they are not clearly argued, while the intelligentsia who support them are not clearly delineated, which is not surprising since all three statements are untrue.  If they were true the French Communist Party would not have been completely excluded from power from 1947 to 1981.  Nor would Communist parties in the rest of the NATO countries by all excluded from power and be, for the most part, marginal, despised and sometimes illegal entities.<br />Furet also does not deal with opposing arguments.  He comments (166) that \\"There is nothing more incompatible with a Marxist-type explanation...than the unparalleled dicatorships of the twentieth century.\\"  Perhaps, but Furet does not discuss such authors as Trotsky, Carr, Deutscher, Neumann, Bauer, let alone the large neo-marxist scholarship of the present day who have sought to provide one.  He uses Hermann Rauschning's memoirs to show Nazi sympathy for aspects of Communism (191-92), but Hitler's latest and most thorough biographer states that Rauschning's memoirs are very unreliable.  Whether on the Spanish Civil War or the Nazi-Soviet Pact Furet ignores or is unaware of such scholars as Helen Graham, Geoffrey Roberts or Michael J. Carley.<br />When it suits his purposes he quotes socialist rhetoric by fascists and extreme right-wingers (163-67, 304-09).  When it does not he ignores Francoist rhetoric about its fascist and totalitarian character to argue that it is safely \\"reactionary.\\" (259-60) Nazism is called \\"anti-bourgeois,\\" apparently for no other reason because of its constant calls for meritocracy (which one would think was a classic trope of bourgeois politics).  He quotes David Schoenbaum's argument that Nazism led to a social revolution, but Ian Kershaw notes that this argument has been severly qualified by more recent research.  Much is made of the complicity of intellectuals, but the acts of the Italian elites who voluntarily brought Mussolini to power are absolved \\"as the product of ignorance and incompetenece rather than of complicity.\\" (176)<br />Fundamentally this is book that tells little about why Communism developed the way it did, or why so many French citizens supported it for so long.  Ultimately it is the story of the heroic intellectualwho rejected his Communist path and saw the light.  Rather than read this self-serving account, scholars of Nazism and Stalinism should read authors such as Christopher Browning, Omer Bartov, Sarah Gordon, Terry Martin and Yuri Slezkine.	2002-08-19
US	52562171	R30THG2VPY3MQH	0674000919	834874436	Becoming America: The Revolution before 1776	Books	3	31	40	N	N	Not as provocative as it appears	Jon Butler's \\"Becoming America\\" offers a new perspective on revolution.  Instead of arguing for the conservatism or the radicalism of the American revolution, Butler argues that there was a fundamental revolution in practices before 1776.  In Butler's opinion the years 1680 to 1770 saw a revolutionary transformatiion in which the American colonies became modern in five major ways:  ethnic diversity, modern market economies, modern participatory politics, modern consumerism and religious pluralism. (2)  The relationship of this silent revolution to 1776 was very complex, but it could be said that \\"the American Revolution of 1763-1789 can rightly be called the first modern revolution, THE model for the French Revolution of 1789 and subseqently\\" onwards. (227)<br />In many ways this is a fine introduction to pre-1776 America.  Butler is concise and his use of the secondary literature is very thorough.  Problems, however, start with his chapter on ethnic diversity (8-49).  For a start ethnic diversity is not a hallmark of modernity.  The fact that more than 90% of Japan and Korea are of the same ethnic group does not make them less \\"modern\\" than India or Indonesia.  Butler also underplays America's linguistic uniformity, where English among whites was overwhelming, in contrast to still Gaelic Ireland and still Welsh Wales.  Actually the most modern thing about America's population was not its diversity but the rise of international migration, a process whose causes Butler says relatively little (22-23, 29).  His discussuion of the African-American experience leads to another problem.  His account of 18th century slavery (36-49), slave poverty (86-88, 136, 139-40) and slave religion (215-24) is based on the most thorough and recent research.  Yet it is segregated from the larger American experience, as if slavery was something that only happened to black people, and not to the larger society as a whole.  In other words, it is insufficiently dialectical (the same goes forButler's view of women).<br />What about the modernity of the American economy?  Butler has no clear account of demography, even though the American colonies had the fastest population growth rate in the world.  White Americans were easily the most prosperous people in the world and Butler is quite right to note their superior literacy (111) and healthier diet (134-38).  On the other hand America was 5% urban, compared to 20% for pre-revolutionary France and higher still for England.  Butler offers many examples of American modernity, such as the booming power of merchants (68-74), the growth of public buildings (164-70), the rise of literary clubs and freemasonry (174-84).  But these were largely urban affairs.  What about the vast rural majority?  Although many have viewed pre-1776 America as a hub a capitalism, in one important way it was not.  70% of white Americans were independent farmers.  In contrast only a fifth of Englishmen were.  While it is true that farmers were more commerical in 1760 than in 1680 (53-54) it is not clear this makes them capitalist.  Butler does not help by not defining or discussing what capitalism is.  He states however that southern colonies took the lead in commericalizing agriculture (55-60).  Since slave plantations were not as it turned out the wave of the future this complicates his definition of modernity, which is also not very well defined.  <br />This chapter on religion is very good, since it is Butler's specialty as a historian, and there is much that will interest a beginning reader.  Still, this is not a book that is as provacative or as original as it appears.	2002-08-19
US	52562171	R16F2LMR1J68SG	1893554090	643613111	The Long March: How the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s Changed America	Books	2	23	68	N	N	This isn't argument, this is abuse.	According to this book there was once a wonderful country that was attacked by a group of nasty malcontents.  Although their ideas were without merit, although their philosophies were immoral and although their private lives contemptible, they successfully perpetrated a cultural revolution whose entirely negative effects last to the present day.  As an analysis this book is irredeemably flawed in several crucial ways.<br />1) Let's look at Kimball's subjects:  The Beats, Norman Mailer, Susan Sontag, the Campus rebellions, the Berrigan Brothers, sex theorists, Charles Reich, Eldridge Cleaver, and the New York Review of Books.  \\"The Sixties\\" stands or fall on the merit of these people.  What is missing?  Well, I don't care for the Beats, but what about Joseph Heller and Catch-22?  Since Kimball mentions various noxious foreign influences, what about Gunter Grass, Italo Calvino and Gabriel Garcia Marquez?  There is no mention of E.P. Thompson and the revolution he helped launched in history.  There is no mention of feminism at all, or the environmental movement.  Kimball moans endlessly about cultural decline, but there is no discussion of American cinema, which in the seventies showed distinct signs of improvement.  Most people would agree that \\"The Conversation\\" or \\"Chinatown\\" are better movies than \\"The Sound of Music.\\"  Other \\"Sixties\\" figures get cheap, inaccurate asides:  Miles Davis' jazz is dismissed as \\"drug inspired\\", while I.F. Stone's articles are \\"interminable\\" and are \\"neo-Stalinist.\\"  <br />2) This book gets two stars because, after all, Timothy Leary was an idiot and Eldridge Cleaver was a nasty thug.  But even people who, like me, do not care for the Beats will be put off by Kimball's chapter on them.  Detailing the aesthetic flaws in their works takes a back seat to ad hominem criticism about their homosexuality and drug abuse.  \\"It would be difficult to overstate the loathsomeness of [William] Burroughs's opinion.\\"  The first one Kimball gives is that Burroughs strongly dislikes Christianity, a not especially rare opinion in western civilization, at least since they stopped executing people for holding it.  Meanwhile Kimball's two pages (89-91) on Susan Sontag's essay on pornography is a travesty of her argument, while he sneers at her support for Bosnia, presumably because it is wrong to support a democratic, multicultural state against the quasi-genocidal aggression of an ex-Communist state.  <br />3) Kimball is addicted to double standards.  He is outraged that Richard Poirier could compare the Beatles to Schumann.  He is infuriated that the New York Review of Books could include angry pieces by Andrew Kopkind and even serve as a forum for Jerry Rubin.  But such lapses don't concern him about the National Review, where he occasionally contributes, even though it was there that Guy Davenport said that the Lord of the Rings was the greatest novel of the 20th century, and whose hallowed contributors include Antonio Salazar and Ferdinand Marcos.  In condemning the decline of the university he does not bother to mention that in 1965 Richard Nixon sought to improve the life of the mind by calling for the firing of Eugene Genovese, later one of America's finest historians.  Although Kimball, as a conservative, prides himself for his pessimistic view of sin and the persistence of evil, three hundred years of slavery, Jim Crow and racism just apparently vanish after the passage of the Voting Rights Act.  The blame for a \\"new segregationism\\" falls on African-American activists; supposedly the fact that in 1993 90% of suburban whites lived in communities which were less than 1% black is somehow all Susan Sontag's fault.   <br />4) Kimball is, quite frankly, a demagogue.  Like all conservatives he mentions class only to criticize liberals and leftists for being well-healed and prosperous:  \\"a revolution of the privileged, by the privileged, and for the privileged.\\"  To the extent that social problems exist, it is the result of the pernicious effects of the \\"establishment\\" and decadent intellectuals.  This is demagogic for two reasons.  First, one thing Kimball does NOT object to is the fact that from 1975 to 1995 the top 1% of the United States doubled their share of the national income from 20% to 40% (Eric Foner, The Story of American Freedom, p. 322).  Nor with the Republican Party holding the House, the Presidency, most governorships, seven out of nine seats on the Supreme Court, and with Wall Street, the Army and much of the country's largest religious denominations, is it really accurate for Kimball to pretend that he and his colleagues represent a tiny, courageous, embattled minority.  Second, Kimball never really discusses such phenomenon as divorce, illegitimacy, poverty, drug addiction in any kind of coherent way.  So he never notes that teenage pregnancy has fallen from the fifties, and that it lower in most other OECD countries, most of which are noticeably more liberal than the United States.  Abortion was a common practice before Roe vs. Wade, and divorce does not spare the Republicans or the evangelicals.  But then Kimball writes for Commentary, a journal which could be defined as believing that it is other people's divorces that are ruining America. <br />Ultimately, Kimball is a rather shallow conservative.  The Left is condemned for its \\"abstractions\\" and its \\"utopianism,\\" as if historically conservative views on race and gender had been models of nuanced empirical analysis, while sole superpower status was a minor and moderate demand.   When Kimball quotes Tom Wolfe's comments about the New York Review of Books, he does not point out that the NYRB had written a couple of articles previously showing what a shoddy journalist Wolfe was.  All in all, what we have is a book which confuses moral courage with histronics, aims at wit but achieves only sarcasm, and praises Western Civilization for its tolerance and brillance, but shows only spite and a deep mediocrity.	2002-08-15
US	52562171	R35F6VRGO47SAO	0781801583	152558868	The Doll	Books	4	24	28	N	N	An important tale of desire without love	Boleslaw Prus' The Doll falls into a category of books which could be described as peripheral realism.  They are late 19th century novels which share nothing in common except that they are written in countries which are in the \\"periphery\\" of world literature.  This is not a comment on their quality, but on the lack of curiosity of the Anglo-American mind to take the trouble to encounter them. Other examples of this trend are the Spaniard Benito Perez Galdos, the Portuguese writer Jose Maria de Eca de Quieros and the Italians Giovanni Verga and Antonio Fogazzaro.<br />\\"The Doll\\" is not of the same quality as such works as \\"Fortunata and Jacintha\\", \\"The Maias,\\" or even \\"The Little World of the Past.\\"  Supposedly it is the story of a successful businessman who tries and fails to win the heart of a shallow, spoiled, aristocratic girl--the doll of the title.  It is this story, but there is more to it than that, more than what Prus thinks.  When the protagonist Stanislaw Wokulski is not worrying ineffectively over Izabela Lecki, he is a smashingly successfully businessman.  Why he is so succcessful is not really made clear, Prus does not have Balzac's eye for describing complex financial transactions in compelling ways.  Wokulski is obviously a good employer and obviously a man of charitable and humane impulses.  The woman he assists, and whom his clerk thinks would be a better wife, Mrs. Sawatska, is a rather conventional portrait of female virtue.  If there is anything truly \\"Dickensian\\" in this book, as the dust jacket promises, it is not Prus' sense of detail, which is meagre, or a fine talent for grotesquerie or wit, but instead the conventional, rather vapid portrait of his heroes.  The style is prosaic, the social atmosphere rather narrow, and people wanting to learn about the urbanity or religious life or common people or entertainments of 19th century Warsaw should look elsewhere.<br />There is one passage that is an exception to this.  It really is remarkable, the one that portrays Izabela's complete isolation from the real world.  \\"If anyone had asked her point-blank what this world is, and what she herself was, she would have certainly have repled that the world is an enchanted garden full of magical castles, and that she herself was a goddess or nymph imprisoned in a body.<br />\\"From her cradle, Izabela had lived in a beautiful world that was not only superhuman but even supernatural.  For she slept in feathers, dressed in silks and satins, sat on carved and polished ebony or rosewood, drank from crystal, ate from silver and porcelain as costly as gold.<br />\\"The seasons of the year did not exist for her, only an everlasting spring full of soft light, living flowers and perfumes.  The times of day did not exist for her either, since for whole months at a time she would go to bed at eight in the monring and dine at two at night.  There was no difference in geographical location, since in Paris, Vienna, Rome, Berlin or London she would find the same food--soups from Pacific seaweed, oysters from the North Sea, fish from the Atlantic or Mediterranean, animals from every country, fruits from all parts of the globe.  For her, even the force of gravity did not exist, since her chairs were placed for her, plates were handed, she herself was driven in carriages through the streets, conducted inside, helped upstairs.\\"<br />As for other parts of the novel, there is a continuing theme of anti-semitism as Wokulski and his colleagues notice with some concern its rise.  Unfortunately it is not entirely clear whether Wokulski or Prus fully recognize its evil or whether they share some of it themselves.  On a first glance Wokulski is a hard working businessman, the kind that Poland obviously needs, who is not appreciated by its inefficient aristocracy.  They look down on him as an arriviste and the selfish, vapid Izabela either ignores him or toys with his feelings.  But on another level Wokulski is not really attracted to her.  He isin more in love with the concept of matrimony than with an actual person.  It is not simply the conservative atmosphere around courting that hampers him, but Wokulski's own lack of force.  This portait of Wokulski's ambiguity, an almost Hamlet like quality of indecision, does not make compelling reading.  But it is an important portrait of impotent masochism and it is expertly done. It is this that establishes Prus' claim to greatness.in more in love with the concept of matrimony than with an actual person.  It is not simply the conservative atmosphere around courting that hampers him, but Wokulski's own lack of force.  This portait of Wokulski's ambiguity, an almost Hamlet like quality of indecision, does not make compelling reading.  But it is an important portrait of impotent masochism and it is expertly done. It is this that establishes Prus' claim to greatness.	2002-08-11
US	52562171	R22PUS0Z6RXORG	0395944171	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	2	16	29	N	N	Joseph Epstein:  when wit and charm are not enough	What is the difference between being a snob, generally agreed to be a pernicious thing to be, and having extremely high standards, which is a vital and necessary trait?  Joseph Epstein states \\"The distinction, I believe, is that the elitist desires the best; the snob wants other people to think he has, or is assocated with, the best.  Delight in excellence is easily confused with snobbery by the ignorant.\\"  Not a bad distinction, even though one remembers that there are other, less agreeable, definitions of an elite.  At another point Epstein defines taste and states that in friendship it requires \\"tact, generosity, and above all kindness,\\" while \\"in culture generally, by a discriminating tolerance for tastes at odds with one's own.\\"  <br />The task of Epstein in this book (and the source of its ultimate failure) is to demonstrate the extent that he himself meets these high standards.  For more than two decades Epstein was the editor of the American Scholar, and made a reputation as a critic and personal essayist of considerable wit and charm.  In discussing the contours of American snobbery, Epstein notes his own snobbish tendencies. (He doesn't like Humphrey Bogart now that he's so popular.) He discusses such matters as the decline of the WASP aristocracy, the ironies of status and possession, the decline of colleges, the difficulties confronting Jews and homosexuals, and the fine but treacherous art of namedropping.  Throughout this book he shows a wide reading, capable of quoting anecdotes and epigrams from Montaigne, Balzac, Mencken, two generations of Churchills and Tom Wolfe.  <br />Is this enough?  To be a real scholar of the subject one has to do more than purvey other people's punchlines.  After all, it's not for their catchphrases that we remember Milton or Proust.  And the quality varies.  There is a good anecdote about Winston Churchill, an old joke about a Jew trying to enter an exclusive club, and Tom Wolfe's gibe that the Rolling Stones are like theBeatles \\"only more lower-class deformed.\\"  (Any takers for those who think \\"The Bonfire of the Vanities,\\" will outlast \\"Exile on Main Street\\"?)  If one really wanted to know about possessions, one should read Jackson Lears' \\"Fables of Abundance\\".  The discussion of class is both vague and evasive, since as a conservative Epstein cannot admit to systematic injustice.  So we get David Brooks' bohemian bourgeoisie, but no overclass from Michael Lind, let alone more stringent views from Mike Davis, Thomas Sugrue or Barbara Ehrenreich.<br />Unfortunately Epstein does not possess the aforementioned \\"discriminating tolerance for tastes at odd with one's view.\\"  This is the critic, after all, who in 1983 argued that \\"By Love Possessed\\" was better than \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude,\\" a view which could not be justified on any coherent aesthetic criterion but on the grounds that James Gould Cozzens was a conservative Republican and Gabriel Garcia Marquez a dirty Red.  For those who think souffles should be doused with vinegar, Epstein has provided several snide and ungenerous comments.  Virginia Woolf is called an anti-semite for no better reason because she thought Isaiah Berlin came from Portugal.  Epstein implies Martha Nussbaum is pretending to be a Jew, when in fact she is a Jew. (By the way, it is in very poor taste in Jewish circles to mention that people are converts.)  There is a passage on the New York Review of Books which subtly but inaccurately overstates its liberalism (Even in the seventies Lord Dacre trumped E.P. Thompson and John Updike and Joan Didion trumped Toni Morrison and E.L. Doctorow, while Leonard Schapiro and George Kennan gave the line on the Soviet Union); it reveals nothing so much as Epstein's failure to become a regular contributor.  Finally I must protest Epstein's Francophobia, a surrender to an unusually common and vulgar prejudice.  \\"The French are not easily admired,\\" and they supposedly have little record of bravery.  This is not true even in the stupid confusion of personal courage with winning wars, but Epstein goes on to suggest that Flaubert and Celine benefits from the specifically national nastiness of many Frenchmen.<br />Whether it is David Cannadine on the British ruling family, John Rohl of Wilhelm II, Mark Steinberg, Andrew Verner or Mark Steinberg on the Romanovs, or Denis Mack Smith on Italy's spectacularly awful monarchs, it is clear that elitism is wasted on the aristocracy.  This is the first vital point that Epstein misses.  The second vital point he misses is that no principled cultural conservatism can come from those journalists of the New York Post or the Weekly Standard who preach a shrill patriotism and indulge in a cheap moralism while funded by an unprincipled Australian pornographer like Rupert Murdoch.  Epstein mentions Pierre Bourdieu in passing; he should have prayed upon him in aid.  For in comparison to Bourdieu, or to Adorno, or to the London Review of Books, all Epstein has done is show that here wit and charm are not enough.	2002-08-06
US	52562171	R26GDDHOG7G9QB	0670872822	356377311	American Colonies (Penguin History of the United States)	Books	4	22	27	N	N	An excellent start to what promises to be a major new series	On first glance it might appear odd that Alan Taylor should be one of our leading historians of the revolutionary era.  Taylor's two previous works were about the Maine frontier and the life of James Fenimore Cooper's father.  What, ask the skeptical, of interest has ever happened in Maine?  And Cooper is easily the writer that even conservatives would most like to chuck out of the canon and replace with the Simpsons.  But the readers of those two books were richly rewarded as Taylor produced complex, well documented narratives about the ironies and limitations of early American democracy.  Taylor's new book deals with the colonial era, the first volume of a the Penguin history of the United States, edited by Eric Foner.  In one respect Taylor's work is superior to any previous volume.  His work does not deal solely with the 13 American colonies.  Instead it deals with all the colonial powers and the aboriginal societies on what is now the current day United States.  As well as the English and the Spanish, we also get the Dutch, the French and the Russians.  Taylor covers Florida to New Mexico, and California to Oregon.  Taylor discusses both Hawaii and Alaska, and because both had a major effect on the thirteen colonies, Quebec and the West Indies.  Only Puerto Rico is excluded from Taylor's wide canvas.  One can only wonder whether future volumes will go into as much detail about the aboriginal population, the consequences of the Mexican war of independence, and the squalid farce of the \\"Hawaiian Republic.\\"  <br />Early on Taylor reminds us of the essential truth of the colonial era.  Colonial America was not a virgin land, but a widowed land, not a land of freedom, but one of chains.  Until 1776 two-thirds of the people who came to this hemisphere did so in chains.  (After 1776 the ratio sharply changed to the benefit of freedom.)  Untold tens of millions of the aboriginal inhabitants died after 1492, mostly from disease, but also from the vicious behavior from European colonists.  Taylor is very good here, as he points out that this European cruelty was in the beginning at least, not so much \\"racist\\" as \\"Christian,\\" in origin.  At the same time we can see its precedents in the Spanish conquest of the Azores and Canary Islands, the English conquest of Ireland, and Russian atrocities against Native Siberians.  Taylor is very good on Indian (his term) society, and how they ranged from nomadic hunter gatherers to complex urban empires.  He is also excellent on ecology, whether it is Indian land practises or why the population of the Western hemisphere was vulnerable to epidemic diseases.  He notes that it is anachronistic to view them as environmentalists.  But he also notes that whether in New England or California their activities produced complex and fertile ecosystems where the Europeans just saw anarchic wilderness, and which they promptly changed for the worse.  At the same time he points out how many \\"tribes\\" encountered in later centuries where the combined remnants of many tribes shattered by plague and genocide, how Indians could use European markets and firearms to their own advantage while ultimately becoming dependant on them, and how horses increased the power of some tribes, while increasing tribal inequality and damaging their environment.   <br />There is another irony to the American success story, which Taylor also brings out.  The rise of the yeoman republic, the key to early American democracy, was a historical accident.  Most male immigrants from England were not very religious and most of them went to Virginia and the West Indies.  Most British attention was concentrated on the cash crop colonies.  But the small minority who went to relatively poor New England were able to earlier achieve a proper gender balance and then quickly start reproducing at a level unprecedented in Europe.  The same thing happened in quasi-feudal Quebec, but at a lower level and ultimately too late to defeat British power.  Another irony is that one reason why so many English and Scots went to find prosperity in America was because British capitalism was much more successful in depriving farmers of their property than feudal France.<br />Taylor has provided a superb synthesis of the existing literature.  Given the chronological and geographic scope of his subject, Taylor's work does not have the compelling thesis one finds in such histories as Gordon Craig on Germany, Christopher Hill on Britain or Denis Mack Smith on Italy.  Indeed the last chapter, on the Pacific, is somewhat anti-climactic.  Taylor is not the most compelling of writers, though there is some black humor when he quotes the rationalizations of Milford, Connecticut in its demands for more Indian land:  \\"Voted that the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof; voted, that the earth is given to the Saints; voted we are the Saints.\\"  And those who don't like Cotton Mather will be grimly unsuprised to learn that this callous Divine wrenched off the jawbone of Metacom (the King Philip of King Philip's war) when the latter's skull lay on display, and then went on to debate whether Metacom's 9 year old son should be executed.  (They sold him into slavery instead.)  Only six and a half pages are devoted to setting the stage for the American revolution, so we do not get as much on the roots of American democracy as one might like.  And his discussion of the Great Awakening does not fully confront Jon Butler's coldly unsentimental critique of it.  Taylor does make one factual error:  Spinoza did not emigrate to the Netherlands as a response to its wonderful tolerance; he was born there and would in fact encounter the limits of Dutch liberty.  But otherwise this is a wonderful textbook that sets the standard for contemporary scholarship.	2002-08-06
US	52562171	R3CDP3HSW6EL6P	0195037847	612469929	Forging Democracy: The History of the Left in Europe, 1850-2000	Books	4	27	32	N	N	An important contribution to European history	Geoff Eley, one of the leading historians of modern Germany, and a prominent academic radical, has produced a large volume on the history of the European left...   Eley...pays greater attention to the pre-1945 situation, and more attention to Eastern and Central Europe.  His style is more repetitive, and it flows less easily than his colleague David Blackbourn, his co-author on the seminal \\"The Peculiarities of German History.\\" <br />Notwithstanding that, Eley's message is well worthy of repetition and study.  On the basic point he is right.  The Socialist Movement that grew in the aftermath of the constitutional struggles of the 1860s and 1870s was vital to the growth of European democracy.  Here the democratic policies of Marx were crucial in contrast to the flaws of anarchism, which fluctuated between terrorist vanguardism and ineffective apoliticalism.  Socialists helped organize the first modern democratic political parties, and they took the lead in supporting universal suffrage for both men and women against elitist liberals and reactionary conservatives.  Communists took the lead in opposing colonialism, in contrast to many socialists, let alone many liberals or the self-serving cant of a Woodrow Wilson.  This does not mean that Eley is uncritical of his protagonists.  Aside from the obvious flaws of Stalinism, the Socialists and Communists fatally underestimated the role of women and encouraged a politics that depoliticized them and discouraged their political activism.  This was bad not simply on principled grounds but because women in the 1870s and afterwards played an important part of the industrial and employment world and they could vigorously engage in political activities.  Moreover, in doing so, the Left legitimized conservative and commonplace views on sexuality, the birth rate and the family that solidified the views of the Right.  The Left's other major weakness is that while it usually, and understandably, avoided putschist talk, it failed to develop an extra-parlimentary strategy to compliment its electoral one.  Again and again, in 1918, 1936, 1945, 1968 and onwards, its deliberately narrow strategies limited its options and its strength.   <br />What are the strengths of this book?  It is well documented, and the 93 pages of secondary sources are exhaustive on most topics.  Eley makes a real effort to cover all of Europe. Some of the setpieces are very good, including a brief account of the Spanish Civil War and the 1968 Paris Spring.  The chapter on 1960s and 70s feminism is very useful, and records a number of spectacularly condescending anti-feminist comments (when one Labour party official is told that some women want to set up a feminist study group he wonders why, what's there to learn about Lenin's views on lingerie?).  He reminds us that Communists were not the sole obstacle of Left Unity in the thirties and that social democrats had their own sectarian tendencies.  Thousands of Communists were interned or dismissed in the last days of the Third Republic, while Petain and Laval were at complete liberty.  Occasionally, Eley draws a sharp portrait of his widely assorted cast of characters.  On Ernest Bevin:  \\"Incorrigibly authoritarian and anti-intellectual to a fault, Bevin was the archetypal labor bureaucarat, incurably hostile to rank and file activists and socialist thinkers alike, belligerently intolerant of democracy, whether on the shopfloor, in the general meeting, or in the committee room, let alone on the streets.\\"  On Francisco Largo Caballero:  \\"Largo was a disaster for the [Spanish] Republic, strutting on the stage of history while its real chances were missed.  A Johnny-come-lately of revolution...[he] struck the pose of revolutionary tribune after 1933, urging the masses into confrontations he had no strategy for winning.\\"<br />Some disagreements.  The fate of the Russian Revolution is not systematically concentrated anywhere; its degeneration is more or less diffused throughout the book.  The 1936 French Popular Front gets much less space than the 1968 revolt or the Greater London Council.  Moreover, Eley is not altogether fair to Leon Blum (devaluation appears as a betrayal, when in fact it should have been done earlier).  Nor later to Alexander Dubcek.  Oddly enough for such a European work, Russia seems to disappear from the book after 1991.  Admittedly the nineties are not covered in much detail, but this seems to unconciously represent Russia's exorcism from Europe.  At times Eley criticizes the Left for its condescending attitude towards popular culture and its somewhat unimaginative concentration on the classics.  But the radical effloresence of 1917-20 and 1936, while often showing great artistic merit, such as in Eisenstein and Brecht, also had a limited popular attraction.  Eley does not make clear how the Left could have competed with Hollywood or television, nor does he fully confront masscult's ultimately meretricious character.  Notwithstanding all that, this is important book, which deserves considerable study and reflection.	2002-07-29
US	52562171	R2NBN8VK6RSDD8	0691057680	747068262	State of the Union: A Century of American Labor (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A fine study of the crisis of American labor	Nelson Lichtenstein's Sate of the Union is a superb study of the current crisis of American labor.  If it is not as finely researched or as densely rewarding as his biography of Walter Reuther or Steve Fraser's biography of Sidney Hillman, it is an excellent introduction to the problem and to possible solutions.  Lichtenstein demonstrates the vital necessity of trade unions.  The average wage of American young families stands at only two-thirds of the their counterparts in 1973, \\"even though their total working hours were longer and the educational level of the head of th ehousehold higher than a generation before.  In the first years of the new century median wages and family incomes were still below their 1989 level.\\"   In the decline of civic committment and political life, the untramelled sway of corporate hegemony, the failure to confront health insurance, public transportation, and childcare in the United States and basic civil liberties in much of our brave new globalized world, the decline of American trade unionism truly is an injury to all.  <br />Lichtenstein, notwithstanding his title, starts with the thirties.  He tells the story of how mass industrial unionism boomed during that decade.  The story he tells is not particularly new, concentrating on the famous struggles, as well as the fatal limitations of the CIO on race and gender.  But he also goes on to point out that the partial welfare state, far from creating the dreaded dependence of conservative rhetoric, actually gave millions of workers the opportunity to exert civil rights and real power that they did not under the mythology of a producer's republic.  Although he is scathing abou the flaws of the AFL's short sighted and often openly racist stratgey he duly notes that their craft unionism did have some advantages in some places.<br />The next two-thirds of the book are much more interesting.  Lichtenstein denies that there was ever a \\"Labor-Management Accord,\\"  the belief that labour problemswere essentially solved held in the sixties by complacent liberals and confused leftists.   Lichtenstein points out the exceptional qualities of American management that differed them from their European counterparts and made them less amenable to compromise.  He points out the continent wide nature of their businesses, the absence of cartelization and self-regulation, the increased power of big businesses, who were not tained with collaborationism, and the increasing stress placed on smaller companies which made them blame the federal state.  He points out the dead weight southern segregation had on trade unionism and other liberal hopes,   He notes how Taft-Hartley legalized right to work laws, as well as banning supervisory unioism making the unionization of many service industries like insurance or engineering \\"virtually impossible.\\"<br />Lichtenstein goes on to discuss the increasing complacency of the AFL-CIO, under its spectacularly unimaginative leader George Meaney, as well as the calcification of the grievance system, the dissipation of shop-floor pressure, and the strategic disaster of supporting a private welfare state via union contract.  This would not stand the ruptures of the eighties and which dissipated efforts to create a national social wage for all.  He also reminds us that Kennedy's Keynesianism was the most conservative form on tap, while LBJ's war on poverty failed to confront the structural roots of poverty and thought that if could be fought on the cheap with training programs.<br />Lichtenstein then goes on to discuss the decline of the union ideal among liberal and leftist thinkers, and notes how even the Warren Court hampered trade unions.  Lichtenstein is most helpful in discussing the limits of \\"rights consciousness.\\"  He is unflinching on the complacency and bigotry of many trade unionists that made this  necessary.  But he quite properly notes that it cannot be a substitute for trade unionism.  First off, the legal-regulatory systemis not self-supporting and it needs a coherent voice from workers themselves--ie a strong trade union, to support them.  Secondly, rights discourse puts the emphasis on regulators as opposed to the workers themsleves, an unhealthy sign.  Thirdly, rights consciousness does nothing to change or alter managerial authority.  Finally, rights discourse by itself cannot solve the structural crisis that confronts American society.  Lichtenstein provides the example of the steel workers where African-Americans challenged and beat Jim Crow, only to end up with fewer steelworkers as the industry collapsed.  <br />Lichtenstein's book is concise and well documented, if largely based on secondary sources, and it contains useful apercus about globalization, the disaster of concession bargaining, the fraud of \\"quality of life\\" initiatives, and about the folly of the construction workers.  Tthey supported Nixon, beat up anti-war protesters, but were still shafted by him anyway).  He also discusses the health insurance debacle, and notes some promising signs of renewal in the last few years, especailly among Hispanic Americans.  One might feel he is trying too hard to end on a positive note, but one can only agree when he says that \\"At Stake is not just an effort to resolve America's labor question but the revitalization of democratic society itself.\\"	2002-07-24
US	52562171	R3GT370GPWWXG3	1563897156	46430639	Preacher VOL 09: Alamo (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	2	21	49	N	N	A Politically Correct Lynching	\\"Preacher\\" is one of the most noteworthy comics of the late nineties, though that is not as saying much considering the meltdown in the industry, and this is the graphic novel that concludes it.  To its admirers \\"Preacher\\" provides a unique combination of humour, theological speculation, sex and ultra-violence that is unprecedented in comics today.  Garth Ennis grew up in Belfast during \\"the troubles\\" and understandably has a rather acidic attitude towards religious orthodoxy.  God here is both mad and brutal, the story of Jesus is a lie, manipulated by a group of unusually perverted megalomaniacs known as the Grail.  Only Jesse Custer, a renegade preacher somehow imbued with the offspring of angel and demon, who can therefore command anyone to do his biding.  Only Jesse, his girlfriend, and an all powerful assasin named the Saint of Killers that God has conveniently granted absolute powers.<br />This is certainly entertaining to read, but the more one looks at it the more repulsive it becomes.  Custer is in one sense the heroic American, the typical Western hero (the book concludes with he and his lover riding off on a vast desert plain).  He is a thief and a fornicator, he swears and drinks like a fish.  More importantly he is a ruthless killer and exterminator of his enemies.  There is something vaguely ironic here.  On one level Custer is the true common man, against moralism and bureaucracy, who heroically stops the cruelties of the Grail and God, even temporarily losing his own life in the process (note his initials).  Yet throughout the course of \\"Preacher\\" he learns to trust and not to deceive his lover and at the end successfully begs her forgiveness.<br />Yet on the other hand he is nothing of the sort.  He does not so much defeat God and the Grail as the two conveniently self-destruct.  Can God create an assasin so powerful that he could kill God himself?  Well let's just say that insane malevolent deities can sometimes do the most convenient of things.Rather conveniently Custer comes back to life with the help of two people, one whom he denounces and renounces, the other he has set up to be killed.  There is the irony that Custer shares the name of the worst officer in the history of the American army.  There is another more serious irony.  You can take the boy out of Belfast, but not Belfast out of the boy.  The Preacher is as ruthless and unforgiving towards his enemies as the deity in Numbers and Joshua, and his victims are no more deserving of sympathy than the exterminated Amalekites.  Just like the old God, but with better sex.  In an earlier volume Custer actually lynches a particularly disgusting Frenchmen.  Aside from showing that Francophobia is the favorite prejudice of the right and the centre, one has to ask is this ironic or what?  In so many respects Custer resembles the caricature of the Texas Good Old Boy, hard-drinking, hard-fighting, rude, belligerent, unthinkingly patriotic to the point of xenophobic.  But unlike so many others of this type, his opinions about women and race are unimpeachable.  He kills people, but at least they're not black.  Is this plausible?  Is this a joke?  Is Ennis subtly sanitizing his hero or laughing his head off at the irony?  <br />In an way Custer DOES resembles America, or more precisely a certain American hypocrisy, an America who benefits from good luck and the sacrifices of other people, but does not acknowledge them, who views its opponents as demons, who condemns without mercy while indulging in its own hedonism.  But it will not do to praise Ennis as a clever ironist.  For he is a man who indulges a noticeable sadistic streak, and who introduces bestiality and incest as plot points.  One suspects this is a man who condemns the IRA and the Roman Catholic Church not for their cruelty or intolerance, but because their sense of principle challenges his ... sick easy nihilism.<br />...	2002-07-20
US	52562171	R2UDCWCLNBPM8J	0060616601	838932953	The Birth of Christianity : Discovering What Happened in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Eccentric, but not fully convincing	In writing this book John Dominic Crossan has an arduous task before him.  How can you write the history of the first years of Christianity before Paul wrote the first book of the New Testament, 1 Thessalonians, when there are no primary sources to work with?  Moreover, how can you write this history without really discussing Paul?  Basically, you have to speculate.<br />The result is an eccentic book, and some of it is very interesting.  The first parts are the most so, in the way that they discuss the problems of visions and the limits of oral tradition.  These are useful because they point out the ubiquity of the first and the weaknesses of the second which undercut typical Christian apologetic. Crossan then goes on to discuss the anthropology, and the system of commercialization and social injustice in first century Palestine.  He discusses matters such as healers, the common meal tradition, and the different resurrection narrative that appears in the exta-canonical Gospel of Peter.  An important point is his discussion of the resurrection which, like other recent accounts, emphasizes the way prophetic exegesis preceded a historical narrative.  But the crux of his book is in the centre, the distinction between an \\"eschatological\\" attitude, and an \\"apocalyptic\\" one.  An eschatalogical attitude is one that sees a brand new world coming, and can be reformist and utopian.  An apocalyptical one, by contrast, sees the end of the world and its replacement by hell and paradise, and is by definition anti-political, because very soon politics will be non-existent.  The spectre haunting  all Christians is the apocalyptic nature of Jesus' teachings.  A reading of the gospels and the authentic letters of Paul, as well as other Christian documents, suggests that Jesus and the early Christians believed in the imminent end of the world, and that their moral injunctions were based on this premise.  In this view they were, of course, wrong.  The problem of this picture of Jesus is not, as Crossan's critics might suggest, that Jesus was not a 21st century liberal.  The problem was that the historical Jesus was not a 21st century anything.<br />So how does Crossan get around this problem?  The earliest Christian souces, Mark, Paul's letters and Q all contain clearly apocalyptic elements.  But there is another Gospel, the Gospel of Thomas.  We have a complete copy that dates from the late fourth century, but we have fragments that were composed in the late second century.  This is a collection of sayings, much like the hypothetical Q source, and it is NOT apocalyptic.  Perhaps it is a later document, like other Christian documents that downplay the Apoocalypse?  But suppose the Gospel of Thomas predated all the other documents?  And suppose that Q was actually composed in stages, with the apocalyptic material coming in later?  Then the Gospel of Thomas and Q-1 would, Crossan implies, be the closest to what Jesus actually thought, and that would be a non-violent radical movement of resistance to imperial and commercial oppression.<br />What evidence does Crossan provides for this belief?  Are there earlier references to or copies of the Gospel of Thomas?  No. Are there any copies of Q at all, in any of its stages at all, except for what we have in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke?  No. The sole evidence is stylistic.  Thomas does not show any obvious pattern of dependance on the other four Gospels.  It consists of a variety of sayings, many of which are repeated in the other Gospels, but which are noticeably shorter and terser than them.  This seems to show they are independent, and it suggests that they are earlier.<br />This is interesting, but there are other alternatives.  One that comes to mind is that the version of Thomas we have was edited by a very terse writer who, as a Gnostic who preserved it for the Gnostic library it was found in, purged the text of its original apocalyptic meanings.  Moreover, there are other problems with Crossan's work.  Crossan relies on a model of peasant-lord conflict, most of which is based on models of transition from feudalism to capitalism.  But the Roman Empire, and first century Palestine was neither.  More important, while it is true that peasants were exploited, it does not follow that Jesus' message was a practical response to this.  And consider how both Thomas and Q refer to Jesus declaring \\"If anyone does not have his own father and mother, he cannot be my disciple,\\" a message so radically different from both Jewish tradition and simple decency, that it appears to be an apocalyptic aspect of Jesus' thought.  Crossan argues that Jesus is not trying to break up families but trying to regroup families broken up by the pressure of Roman commercialization.  But there is nothing in the facts to support such a suggestion,  while the only problem with Jesus' own family was that it did not share his own high opinion of himself.  Crossan does not really discuss Jesus' unusual celibacy, nor its possible apocalyptic implications, as can be seen in 1 Corinthians.  And Crossan does not explain why this message, supposedly rooted in the crisis of the Jewish peasantry, would soon be so much more successful in the world of urban gentiles.  Why would Gentiles be even more enthusiastic for an apocalyptic theory that developed from Jewish sources?  Ultimately Crossan is too clever and too convenient by half.	2002-07-14
US	52562171	R2O39MCFNNW2H4	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	2	32	67	N	N	The Exorcist	This is a somewhat odd book.  Martin Amis, the famous English novelist has decided now, in 2002, that Communism was incredibly evil and foul, from beginning to end and has now written a memoir to fully articulate his disgust and outrage.  How, he asks several times throughout this book, could such horror and evil be indulged by so many Western intellectuals.  The book consists of an introductory chapter with autobiographical materials, and a discussion of the almost unmatched foulness of Lenin.  There is a concluding chapter which consists of letters to his friend Christopher Hitchens and his deceased father, the novelist Kingsley Amis.  But much of the book consists of the middle section detailing the horror of Stalin, whose crimes are virtually equal to Hitler's.  <br />The result is a book that is based largely on the work of his father's close and dear friend, Robert Conquest; Conquest and several other like-minded writers and scholars.  This leads to the first irony of the book.  This is a book that claims to be a vigorous attack on totalitarian tyranny.  Yet the sources relied on, Conquest, Solzhenitsyn, Richard Pipes, Martin Malia, General Volganov show a rather narrow range of reading and a rather narrow ideological range.  One might as well read them first and not this second hand version.  As a historical study its limitations are obvious.  Amis seems to think the October Revolution could have be evaded if Kerensky had been more intelligent (Amis quotes Orlando Figes, but seems to have ignored where Figes shows that is wildly wrong) and reduced it all to Lenin's sadistic blood-thirstiness and lust for power.  (One would be better off reading William Rosenberg's \\"Beheading the Revolution,\\" in the December 2001 issue of The Journal of Modern History.) Amis quotes Shoskatovich's \\"Testimony,\\" unaware that scholars vigorously debate its authenticity.  At one point Amis says nearly all scholars are nearly 99% sure that Stalin had Kirov assasinated.  In fact opinion is sharply divided about this (one skeptical historian is quoted with agreement in Francois Furet's own strongly anti-communist The Passing of an Illusion.)  There is much denunciation of Trotsky as a murderer and a liar, but Amis at one point admits that he has never actually read Isaac Deutscher's seminal trilogy on the man.  One might point out that Amis' discussion of Stalin's entry into the second world war would have been improved by the reading of Gabriel Gorodestsky's \\"Grand Delusion.\\"  And his discussion of the war is flawed by the apparent belief that the Soviet peoples defeated Hitler despite the Soviet State doing nearly everything possible to lose.  This is good propaganda, and it is more truthful than the opposite, but it is not remotely accurate.   <br />It is not just the redolent tone that irritates one (but could you have such a book that did NOT include the tale how the Webbs made a fool of themselves over Stalin).  A certain moral unpleasantness, a certain ostentatiousness involved.  At one point Amis ruminates on which way of mass murder he would prefer to suffer, and says he would prefer to be incinerated at Hiroshima than die in the Gulag.  This is empty chatter from someone who will never have to experience either.  At another point Amis seems to endorse, or only mildly dissent from Solzhenitsyn's gratuitously vicious attack on Maxim Gorky.  When one considers that moral depth, sensitivity or simple decency is not really the trademark of the fiction of either Amis Senior and Junior there is something unseemly in judging a man who lived in infinitely more difficult circumstances.  But the oddest thing in this book is that the main example of the West's callousness towards Soviet suffering is, of all people, Christopher Hitchens! (and to a lesser extent, Edmund Wilson).   Much of this is based on a conversation Hitchens denies, yet Amis works himself into a lather in which Hitchens jokingly addresses a meeting as \\"comrades,\\" saying it wouldbe like addressing a group of people as fellow blackshirts.  Poppycock.  Amis appears to state that simple fraternity should be surrendered to the Bolsheviks, and while people who do make that ironic comment to fellow fascists, like David Irving, are not to be trusted, no honest or thoughtful person could think Hitchens was a Stalinist.  <br />It is an interesting question as to why Soviet atrocities are not more widespread in the public consciousness than they are.  But it is certainly not because anti-communists like Conquest or Kinsley Amis were cruelly ignored.  (Fortunately the knighthood must have provided some consolation.)  After all for most of its existence, except for part of the eighties, even the British Labour Party supported Britain having nuclear arms, a policy that could only be justified by arguing that the Soviet Union was so evil that it should be threatened with extermination and extinction should it attack us.  And during the swinging sixties it was the official policy of both the Democratic and Republican parties to pretend that Chiang Kai-Shek was still the legitimate government of China.  Utlimately this book is not so much an analysis as an exorcism.	2002-07-06
US	52562171	R3LE9BGGF2MHAH	0300090633	508893523	Czechoslovakia: The Short Goodbye	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Don't Stand so close to Me	This is not a very good book, but in the absence of anything else in English it will have to do.  Abby Innes is a lecturer of \\"political sociology\\" who argues that the 1993 partition of Czechoslovakia was not inevitable.  Instead it was in fact the result of the cunning of the Czech Vaclav Klaus and his Civic Democratic Party using and relying on the opportunist Slovak Vladimir Meciar and his Movement for a Democratic Slovakia.  Although an overwhelming majority of people in both countries showed no desire for independent states after the 1992 parliamentary elections, Klaus refused to cooperate.  Instead of compromising on a new federal structure or rearranging his economic reforms to take into account Slovakia's special needs, he refused to negotiate.  Meciar played into his hands by demanding either an extremely loose federalism or independence, which Klaus used as a pretext to partition the country.  Klaus also blocked all possible compromises, including a referendum and proposals to get around the deadlocked presidential elections which left the position vacant.  He did this supposedly to grant Slovakia's long lasting wishes, but in reality to maximize his own power, to remove any opposition to his Thatcherite policies and to relieve himself of the burden of the poorest third of the country. <br />This book has a number of weakness.  It is not very well written, and Innes is not very good in detailing the complicated proposals in economic reform or national unity and their path.  The only primary sources are contemporary newspapers, and there is a certain lack of depth.  This is all too common in political scientists and sociologists and it leads to a rather indulgent treatment of Slovak nationalism.  The first chapter is a potted summary of Czechoslovakian history until 1989 and there is little critical discussion of the nature of Slovakian national identity.  The image of Slovaks to many outsiders is that they are basically more rural, more Catholic, less hipCzechs who speak a slightly different language.  Since Slovakia has become more urban and more secular over the past century, what does it mean to be a Slovak?  The actual historical details of national consciousness are not really discussed, they are simply assumed.  The process as discussed in the brilliant, if flawed works by Linda Colley on Britain and Eugen Weber on French peasants, is not really detailed.  One thinks of Drew Gilpin Faust's book on Confederate Nationalism or Gary Cohen's book on nationality in Prague as better examples of analysis.  <br />There is therefore a certain lack of critical rigor in discussing Slovak nationalism.  The problem is not that nationalism made the breakup of the country inevitable, but that Slovak Nationalism is not really critiqued clearly.  Czech attitudes towards Slovaks are mostly summarized, and mostly at the level of high politics.  It is a bit unconvincing to think that the attitudes of Czech dissidents and Czech economic reformers were quite as simple minded as Innes portrays.  It is true that Slovaks were not the contented rural hicks who blandly accepted Communism while Czech dissidents heroically suffered.  But did the Czechs really believe this self-serving version that Innes imputes to them.  Their ideology is never really analyzed.  Although Innes provides reams of evidence of Meciar's opportunism, authoritarianism and incompetence she seems to think it condescending of Czechs to point this out.  She does not really explain why Slovaks needed a veto over major legislation.  Legislation required approval by the Czechoslovak version of a Senate, in which Slovakia had half the seats.  Why was that insufficient?  Rather than come up with programs that would ensure that Slovakia's historical relative poverty would be compensated, Slovak politician seemed to be more interested over symbols and acquiring power for its own sake.  (Would it have killed them to rename the country \\"the Federal Republic of Czechoslovakia\\"?)  Leading politicians seemed unduly sympathetic to the old Quisling state of Father Tiso.  At one point Innes supports one proposal in which the legal continuity of the Czechoslovak state would be abrogated and two nominally independent countries would form a loose federation.  Such a move insulted the Czechs, revived fears of Tisoite authoritarianism and led people to assume that Slovak politicians were much more interested in independence than they really were.  <br />There are other weaknesses in the book.  There is little discussion of civil society, or the rest of society period.  Unions, Churches, Business lobbies, women's groups, how Czechoslovaks actually carried out democratic politics is not really illuminated in a picture of what is largely tedious and unduly complicated high politics.  There is no discussion of intermarriage or language.  Still the portrait is broadly convincing, and one should read Innes' account of Klaus' brave new Czech Republic, with its corruption and dogmatic refusal of regulation, Klaus' bullying suggestion that all who oppose him are Communists, and some of the lowest voter turnout rates in Europe.  The situation in Slovakia is even worse.	2002-07-04
US	52562171	R17188J9LM0HX9	0785243631	698530272	The New Evidence That Demands A Verdict Fully Updated To Answer The Questions Challenging Christians Today	Books	1	269	438	N	N	The decline and fall of Christian Apologetics	Josh McDowell's Evidence that Demands a Verdict is probably the most influential book of Christian apologetics to be published in the past half century.  And it is irredeemably flawed in every respect from beginning to end.  Let's just list some of its major flaws.<br />1) Irrelevancies.  McDowell repeatedly refers to the New Testament documents as eyewitness accounts.  By contrast, the scholarly consenus among most historians and non-evangelical Christians is that of the 27 books of the New Testament, we know the authorship of exactly 7, all by Paul.  Neither the four gospels, nor Acts, nor the Book of Revelation, nor the other letters were written by the people Christian tradition attributed to them, and they were written 40-80 years after his death.  How does McDowell get around this problem?  He cites evidence that there are far more copies of the bible and far earlier than any other account from the Classical Age.  But this only shows that after Constantine the Church showed much more concern for preserving Christian documents and remarkable callousness towards non-christian ones.  He argues that many details about first century Judaea are accurately recorded in the Gospels, but this does not show who wrote them or whether they were written one generation after Jesus' death or two.<br />2) Argument from authority.  McDowell quotes reams of evangelical and nineteenth century authorities, as well as people who tried to refute the resurrection and only became more convinced of its existence.  But what is the point of quoting Thomas Arnold's muscular defense of orthodoxy when it didn't really convince his son, the famous poet and essayist Matthew Arnold?  To take one example of McDowell's inapt use of authority, consider his discussion of Quirinius on page 63.  Quirinius is the governor under whom the census was conducted, that compelled Mary and Joseph to move to Bethlehem.  Unfortunately, Quirinius and the census were held a dozen years after Jesus' birth.  Mcdowell tries to get around this problem, but all his arguments and every other way of getting around the problem was refuted point by point in Geza Vermes, Fergus Millar's 1973 edition of Emil Schurer's The History of the Jewish People in the Age of Jesus Christ, Volume I at 399-427.  In trying to get around the inconsistent geneologies given to Jesus in Matthew and Luke McDowell doesn't even mention Raymond Brown's The Birth of the Messiah, which says that they can't be successfully rationalized.<br />3) Ignorance of Judaism.  It is not true that Jesus was the first Jew to refer to God as \\"Abba\\" or Father  (153)  It is not true that claiming one's sins are forgiven as part of healing a person (in Mark 2:1-12) is making a claim to divinity.  Similar claims were made by other faith healers in the Dead Sea Scrolls.  It is not true that claiming sinless is equivalent to claiming divinity:  the Prayer of Manasseh claims the patriarchs were sinless.<br />4) Prophetic non-sequiturs.  McDowell asserts that Jesus is divine because he fulfilled so many Old Testament prophecies.  (He lists 61)  There are all sorts of problems with this.  Some of the prophecies could be fulfilled by anyone because they are or were everyday occurences.  There is nothing especially unusual about going to the temple or entering Jerusalem on a donkey.  Other Old Testament prophecies are not messianic prophecies, others were not interpreted as messianic prophesies until the Christians cited them as such.  Many of the prophecies are merely claims that the gospels made; we have no independent proof of them.  Among these are prophecies that Jesus was born of a virgin, that he was born in Bethlehem, and that he was annointed by the Holy Ghost.  McDowell claims that Isaiah 7:14 predicts a virgin birth.  He argues that the Hebrew world used \\"almah\\" means virgin, or is \\"denoted\\" by it.  It does not, and John P. Meier has pointed out in A Marginal Jew that the term has been applied to pregnant women before giving birth.<br />5) Other non-sequiturs and logical errors.  McDowell argues that miracles are more probable because quantum physics and relativity have upset Newtonian physics.  Rubbish.  He tries to suggest that the burden of proof lies on those who deny miracles or doubt the inerrancy on the bible when, of course, it lies on him.  His discussion of C.S. Lewis' Trilemma shows the same flaw Lewis' did:  it is not clear that Jesus claimed he was God, the Gospels do.  Since they were written decades after his death they cannot be taken to be eyewitness accounts.  Moreover, outside of John, the last Gospel, the claims are ambiguous and McDowell misinterprets the evidence he does have (see problem 3).  McDowell does not discuss the fact that Paul's epistles, our earliest writings, do not mention the Virgin Birth, a Physical Ressurection, an Early Tomb, or a prophecy of destroyed Jerusalem.  One could go on, but I only have a thousand words.	2002-06-29
US	52562171	R3D99LRH6473EL	0691050287	916388924	A Carnival of Revolution: Central Europe 1989	Books	2	23	35	N	N	Very Disappointing	A few years ago Padraic Kenney wrote an important monograph on the contrasting experience of workers in two very different cities in early Stalinist Poland.  Kenney's work was important because it brought questions from the field of labor history and larger trends in Anglo-American historiography into an area where they had previously been ignored.  This book appeared very promising since it would appear to offer a similar historical depth to the journalistic accounts of the revolutions of 1989. <br />Unfortunately, that has not occured.  Kenney's book deals with the carnivalesque, anti-authoritarian elements of the opposition to the Communists.  The focus is Central Europe, with Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, East Germany, Ukraine and Slovenia.  One should point out the disingenuousness of the term \\"Central Europe,\\" which the Czechoslovak dissident Milan Simecka pointed out at the time and Perry Anderson has also recently criticized.  With its emphasis on Central Europe's links to the West, it could imply that \\"Eastern Europe\\" were lesser breeds unworthy of the law.  Certainly the absence of Serbia, Croatia and the rest of Yugoslavia is rather striking.  During the eighties most people would have thought Yugoslavia was the most liberal of the communist states.  But during the bloody attacks of Bosnia, it was very convenient for those who didn't want to help that \\"civil strife\\" was the inevitable result of Yugoslavia's atavistic Balkanness.  By leaving out Serbian and Croatian politics before 1990 Kenney appears to imply that they too were foredoomed to failure, in part because they were not as hip and stylish as Slovenia's activists.<br />For although Kenney constantly praises the Central Europeans for their \\"internal pluralism,\\" his book concentrates on the \\"carnival,\\" those activists who engaged in ingenious forms of confrontational street politics.  These people were often young and indeed made a politics of their youth, such as the Hungarian Association of Young Democrats who banned anyone over 35 from joining their party.  They found new ways of raising issues embarrassing to the authorities, like the environment, worker's pensions, homelessness.  They (and they were mostly Polish) found new ways of contacting with other countries in both the West and the East.  In groups like the Orange Alternative, they engaged in ingenious forms of peaceful mass protest as they worked with hippies, punks, greens, admirers of John Lennon, while engaging in surrealist antics or dressing up like elfs or the smurfs.  It was this ingenious, carnivalesque politics, Kenney argues, which played a key role in the fall of Communism. <br />While there is certainly a lot of information about some of these groups, there are some major weaknesses in this account.  Who belongs to these groups?  Aside from the young and the fact that they are concentrated in Wroclaw, there's not much systematic detail about them.  What did the larger public think about them?  Possibly everybody, since Kenney does not grant the regimes any base of support, possibly less, since the fuddie-duddies of Solidarity appear to show a disconcerting lack of faith, and there references to apathy in the larger population. The portrait of politics is one of minorities, groups of benign bohemian leninist vanguards against communism.  It is important to note what is left out.  In discussing Hungary Kenney concentrates on the hip young Association of Free Democrats, and it is only at the end that we find that the conservative, somewhat chauvinist Democratic Forum won the first free elections in 1990.  But then they're not as cool.  Almost all questions arising after 1989 are downplayed or ignored.  The transformation of Slovak and Ukrainian nationalism into a demagogic sinister authoritarianism only gets a couple of sentences.  There is certainly no discussion of whether Slovaks, Ukrainians or Slovenes actually wanted to be in a new separate country before Vaclav Kraus, Boris Yeltsin and Slobodan Milosevic make the decisions before them.  And there is certainly no discussion of why one of Jaruzelski's cabinet ministers has been twice freely elected president of Poland, or the return to popularity of the ex-Communists in East Germany or Hungary.  Kenney notes how the carnival used the problems of homelessness, alcoholism and workers' pensions as sticks to beat the Communists.  It is rather disconcerting that there is no discussion of these issues after 1989 to see whether they did any better at solving these problems. <br />Kenney wishes to give these radicals credit for overthrowing Communism and take much of it away from Gorbachev.  This certainly accepts the mindset of the Polish radicals, but is it accurate?  After all in East Germany many of the dissidents were sympathetic to socialism until almost the very end, the Slovenian opposition grew out of the local Communist party and the Hungarian government had agreed to multicandidate elections in 1985 and multiparty ones in 1988.  And one cannot weigh the influence of the carnival without paying more attention to the weight of the Church, Solidarity, the Party, the Soviets and the continuing economic crisis in a more systematic matter than Kenney has done.  The consequence is a book in which the carnival's worldview is taken on its own terms and all the complexities and messiness of politics are either ignored or happily viewed as inevitable.  This book does not so much analyze their enthusiasm, as indulge it.	2002-06-27
US	52562171	R3T8G8TN71P8U0	0804742545	400901733	Another Such Victory: President Truman and the Cold War, 1945-1953 (Stanford Nuclear Age Series)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	The case against Harry Truman	This is an interesting book, with its own eccentricities.  When Truman left office he was one of the most unpopular presidents in American history.  But his fundamental decency and frankness only endeared people after the presidencies of Johnson and Nixon, and his academic reputation only increased after the first clash with the cold war revisionists in the early seventies.  Whereas his next five successors were all tarred by the Vietnam debacle, Truman's confrontation with Stalin and the formation of the western alliance appears to be the hallmark of responsible realism.  Offner's critical account, by contrast, is the lengthiest denunciation of his foreign policy since Gabriel and Joyce Kolko's The Limits of Power, published thirty years ago. <br />The greatest weakness of this book is how little new there is in it.  Although this book has 98 pages of notes to 474 pages of text, the most common primary source are the documents published in the foreign relations series, most of which were published two decades ago.  Although Offner cites more than 30 sets of private papers, most have been readily available for years.  Indeed, this book is not all that different from Melvyn Leffler's A Preponderance of Power (1992).  The most important difference is that whereas both books provided a large amount of damning criticism of Truman, Leffler's overall verdict was somewhat softer than Offner's.  Offner's book is also more focused on Truman's own personal role.  Offner does provide more on the creation of Israel, and the partition of Germany, though he says little about the cold war's consequences in Latin America, where the confrontational atmosphere helped cut short a brief liberal interlude.  There are a few errors:  Thomas Dewey won 189, not 89, electoral votes in 1948 and Klement Gottwald in 1947 was Czechoslovakia's prime minister, not its president.  Somewhat more discouragingly, Offner, in his criticism of the atom bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, does not discuss the counter-arguments of Richard Frank in his book Downfall.  And many scholars would vigorously disagree with his assertion that half the Palestinian refugees in 1948 left voluntarily or at the instigation of their leaders. <br />With these caveats in mind, Offner provides a compelling case.  It may not be new, but it is based on strong evidence.  Truman was a parochial man, giving to making blandly prejudicial comments about blacks, Asians and Jews.  The history he read was uncritically patriotic, didactic and melodramatic and this encouraged unhelpful tendencies in Truman's diplomacy.  Offner does not say the cold war was Truman's fault, but clearly he did many things to make things worse.  He accused the Soviet Union of clearly breaking treaty committments when the language was ambiguous, simplied complex problems in Korea and Greece to Soviet agression, and wrongly viewed Mao as a Soviet puppet. <br />Truman's positions usually had considerable support from the other members of his adminstration.  But it is also true that Truman ignored Harriman's advice to be more accommodating towards the Soviet Union in Japan.  He failed to support Byrnes' suggestion of demanding Chiang Kai-Shek's support for a coalition government as a quid pro quo for transporting Nationalist troops to Manchuria, and in doing so lost his best chance to stop a civil war, that Chiang would almost certainly lose.  He ignored Kennan's and Elsey's belief that the Truman Doctrine was overstated, and he believed that the Russians were about to attack Turkey when even the Turks knew that was not going to happen.  Truman ignored General Clay's and General Marshall's calls for compromise in Germany, which lead to partition.  He ignored Acheson and Lillienthal's proposals for sharing atomic energy and by choosing Bernard Baruch to head the plan, guaranteed that the Soviet Union would never support it.  Truman ignored the consensus of most State Department experts that recognition of Mao was inevitable.  Truman never dealt with Enrico Fermi's opposition to making an H-bomb, and he and Acheson ignored George Kennan's belief that they should at least try to negotiate in good faith with Stalin over the latter's offer to reunify Germany in 1952. <br />One should point out that Truman's bombing of Nagasaki, if not Hiroshima, showed a horrifying moral blindness and indifference.  Truman and Acheson did not even try to discuss Mao's offers of a relationship in 1949.  Truman and his advisers also ensured that the Marshall Plan would only offer aid to the Soviet Union on terms that they knew it would reject.  In the Korean war Truman unwisely supported MacArthur's expansive plans, ignored clear Chinese warnings, supported elements of MacArthur's dangerous policy even after firing him, and probably extended the war two years because he did not recognize that \\"voluntary repatriation\\" of POWS violated the Geneva Convention and under South Korean and Taiwanese police was often a farce. Even in Poland, where Stalin's conduct was most unforgivable, the United States could have conceded the Oder-Neisse border, which it eventually did.  If one had to point out the fundamental flaw of Truman's foreign policy, it was that it sought to rehabilitate Germany economically without doing the same for the Soviet Union it had so viciously ravaged.  Ultimately, Offner provides a clear case against the limitations of Truman's foreign policy.	2002-06-20
US	52562171	R796EJNP4BAVA	0199244146	260729695	The French Revolution, 1789-1799	Books	3	15	16	N	N	A useful short introduction	This rather brief book is a useful short introduction to the French Revolution.  As a work of original scholarship it is not on the order of William Doyle's Oxford History of the French Revolution, though it is better footnoted than that volume.  As a defense of \\"traditional,\\" \\"Marxist\\" \\"non-minimalist\\" interpretations of the French Revolution as an important event that fundamentally changed France and the world for the better, McPhee's book does not go much beyond the chapters he devoted to the subject in his previous Social History of France.  <br />Nevertheless this is a helpful book.  His chapter on the breakdown of the old regime, if it does not vindicate the idea of a class conscious bourgoisie confronting the aristocracy, does note the increasing rise of capitalism and consumer culture.  The bourgeoisie did triple in size over the eighteenth century, and increasing literacy, readership and Enlightenment ideas did have a middle class component.  There were increasing attacks on the aristocratic \\"luxury\\", while middle class sociability increased in institutions like freemasonry.  McPhee also provides information about recent areas of interest like gender and even more so on the environment (more than 70% of the people who took advantage of the Revolution's law on divorce were female).  He also provides interesting details, such as how the Right Wing Press in the early 1790s started attacking the revolutionaries as Jews and how their bloodthirsty language encouraged the panic that led to the September Massacres.  Ironically, at the height of the Paris Terror of Spring-Summer 1794, the Convention reinstated more than 70 Gironde sympathizers whom Robespierre had saved from trial and execution.  <br />In conclusion, McPhee argues that the Revolution was an important event in French history.  It had clear effects on demography, as contraception spread and the birth rate fell, on language, as more and more people spoke French (only half did in 1789) and in the decline of churchgoing.  Although still important, the nobility clearly suffered a loss of influence, while the bourgeoisie gained and even the peasantry improved.  McPhee might have quoted Paul Spagnoli's 1997 article in the Journal of Family History which noted a decline in mortality rates unmatched in Europe.  But this is still a useful introduction to people otherwise unfamiliar with the French Revolution.	2002-06-12
US	52562171	RJXTJXL0R6TIF	0691088500	370533290	Imperialism and Jewish Society: 200 B.C.E. to 640 C.E.	Books	3	43	46	N	N	Provocative, but not fully convincing	This is an unusually ambitious monograph.  It seeks to describe the history of Jewish society from the Maccabean revolt to the Muslim attacks that ensured the decline of the Roman Empire in the East.  Schwartz argues throughout his book that what we consider to be Judaism was much weaker throughout this period than we have been lead to believe.  Arguing against the Zionist ethos that marked much of the archaeology of Palestine, Schwartz emphasizes the elite nature of Jewish doctrines and the limited depth of Judaic doctrine.  Not even the Maccabean revolts should be considered an attack on hellenization.  He also emphasizes the almost unbroken imperial support for the temple from the Persians to Nero.  A certain ideological mindset did occur among the common people after the Maccabean's victory which lasted until the Jewish revolt.  But for the next several centuries afterwards Jewish doctrines became shadowy and marginal for most Jews as the centre of Jewish doctrine, the Temple had been irretrievably shattered.  Rabbis were a distinctly marginal presence in Jewish life and what archaeological evidence shows the strong influence of paganism in Jewish life.  Only with the christianization of the empire from the fourth century onwards did synagogue construction truly bloom, rabbinical influence really increase and iconophobic ideologies develop.  Much of this revival was partly the result of Christian exclusion of Jews from the patronage networks that run the empire, but it also included the adaption of Christian motifs.<br />The book is extensively footnoted and the bibliography is 23 pages long.  But most of this consists of the extensive secondary literature.  The actual primary evidence which exists is unavoidably scarce.  Much of Schwartz's strongest evidence consists of archaeological evidence, which, however, he does not reproduce in the book.  But much of Schwartz's case is based on negative evidence, the absence of support.  Schwartz has written well in the past in criticizing nationalist misinterpretations of the Jewish past.  One recalls his article in Past and Present emphasizing the increasing marginality of Hebrew in post-exile Judea.  And his work coincides with the \\"minimalist\\" school of archaeological interpretation which is extremely critical of the accuracy of the Tanakh not just up to Moses, but to the kings of a united Israel.<br />This general mindset has some major problems.  The most important one is that if Jewish monotheism was such a late development that it was essentially imposed by Ezra and Nehemiah, why did it succeed?  Why didn't the defeated Jews simply view the Babylonian captivity as proof of the strength of Babylonian and Persian gods and abandon their old rituals like their now forgotten neighbors?  The same problem arises with the Roman destruction of Jerusalem.  Schwartz's discovery of pagan symbols and motifs in the ruins of overwhelmingly Jewish Tiberias is certainly peculiar.  Yet why did Judaism survive at all, why would the Romans tolerate it since one could argue that it was the most \\"monotheist\\" Jews who were most likely to be \\"seditious?\\"  Moreover, if most Jews accepted Paganism why does this not appear in Christian-Jewish polemic?  If Jews renounced their faith, why is there so little record of their support for their new beliefs, or critiques of the old?  Much of Schwartz's archaeological evidence and his discussion of rabbinic commentary of it (he suggests that it was evasive in complying with it) comes close to arguing that since pagan religiosity was so ubiquitious that any orthodox presence could not have existed.  Yet Christians faced the same challenges of pagan idolatory, yet they eventually survived and triumphed.<br />The limitations of the evidence are quite severe.  Schwartz himself acknowledges we have little on the economic background of post-revolt Palestine.  We also have few sources on the extent and compliance of the Jewish common people (though the absence of pig bones in the Maccabean and Herodian period suggests that most people kept kosher).  Surprisingly there is little on the diaspora, though Keith Hopkins has suggested that more than 80% of Jews lived outside modern Israel.  At one point Schwartz suggests that literacy was very small in Jewish communities, 10% is a generous estimate, with only 1% being able to read the holy scriptures.  Perhaps, but when one considers that the early Christian apostles were not of a social class likely to be literate, and that their many argument was trying to show, not very successfully, that Jesus fufilled prophecies from the scriptures, one suspects that something was wrong.  At another point Schwartz argues that the Maccabeans did not really resist Hellenization because they followed the Hellenic process of coining.  One might equally argue that Reformation Europe was becoming more like China because it used compasses and gunpowder.  Ultimatley this is not a fully convincing book.ig bones in the Maccabean and Herodian period suggests that most people kept kosher).  Surprisingly there is little on the diaspora, though Keith Hopkins has suggested that more than 80% of Jews lived outside modern Israel.  At one point Schwartz suggests that literacy was very small in Jewish communities, 10% is a generous estimate, with only 1% being able to read the holy scriptures.  Perhaps, but when one considers that the early Christian apostles were not of a social class likely to be literate, and that their many argument was trying to show, not very successfully, that Jesus fufilled prophecies from the scriptures, one suspects that something was wrong.  At another point Schwartz argues that the Maccabeans did not really resist Hellenization because they followed the Hellenic process of coining.  One might equally argue that Reformation Europe was becoming more like China because it used compasses and gunpowder.  Ultimatley this is not a fully convincing book.	2002-06-10
US	52562171	R2Z0IT44T820US	0340731443	981960267	Mussolini	Books	4	101	115	N	N	Still a swine after all these years	Twenty years ago Denis Mack Smith published what was at the time the definitive biography of Mussolini.  Concise and economical, it was also utterly devastating and mordantly hilarious.  But between then and now the conservative Italian historian Renzo De Felice finished his mammoth biography that weighed in at perhaps twenty times the length of Mack Smith.  At the same time De Felice's book was noticeably more sympathetic to the man (and to the Italian ruling class that let him get away with so much) and helped encourage what to outsiders appears the bizarre atmosphere of \\"anti-anti-Fascism\\" that typifies Berlusconi Italy.  Partially as a response to this diplomatic historian R.J.B. Bosworth has produced a new biography, which seeks incorporate twenty new years of scholarship.  It counters De Felice's lenient version and offers a more complex response to Mussolini than Mack Smith's olympian scorn.<br />Is it better than Mack Smith?  Not necessarily.  But it is a useful book worth reading.  One should compare it to Paul Preston's book on Franco, Herbert Bix's work on Hirohito and Ian Kershaw's two volume biography on Hitler.  Bosworth's book is shorter than all three (and the body is only a hundred pages longer than Mack Smith's).  His portrait of Mussolini as a bullying demagogue, manipulative thug, shallow ideologue, brutal colonialist and incompetent general does not differ too much from Mack Smith's version.  As a result it is not as revelatory as Bix's was on Hirohito's complicity or Preston's was on Franco's willingness to support the Axis.  Bosworth is not as thorough as Kershaw.  Whereas Kershaw's book is definitive on such matters as rumours about Hitler's \\"Jewishness\\" or his relationship with his niece, or about the Reichstag Fire or the attempt on Hitler's life, Bosworth's account of such matters at the murder of Mateleotti or the decision to enter the second world war seem comparatively cursory. <br />What Bosworth seeks to do in this account is to bringin many of the ideas that Kershaw and other historians of Nazism, most noticeably the late great Martin Broszat, have brought to their study of the Third Reich, and apply them to Italy.  As such Bosworth emphasizes questions such as was Mussolini a \\"weak\\" dictator? how much influence did he personally have in relation to other segments of the regime? what degree of continuity was there with the pre-Mussolini \\"Liberal Italy\\"?  how coherent was Mussolini's ideology and how determined was he on his objectives?  The results are useful, and we get to learn more about relationships within the party and its regional bases.  We learn, for instance, that other fascists came up with the distinctive anthem, uniform, slogan, name, and nasty habit of forcing castor oil down their enemies' throats.  Bosworth points out that Mussolini's colonial atrocities in Ethiopia and Libya (where in Cyraneica he killed half the population) as well as his opportunistic entry into the second world war was all too much in keeping with \\"Liberal\\" traditions. In discussing ideology Mack Smith famously emphasized Mussolini's breathtaking cynicism, combined with a strong dose of culpable stupidity and shallowness.  Bosworth, by contrast, tends to provide more nuance on the shallowness side of the ledger (he is particularly useful on the twists and turns of Mussolini's racialism).   On the other hand in discussions on foreign policy Bosworth tends to forget the fact that in Italian politics just because something is very badly planned, that is NOT evidence of a lack of premeditation.  MacGregor Knox's Hitler's Italian Allies should be read in contrast.  More evidence could have been provided about public opinion on vital points in 1922, 1924, 1940, and 1943-45.  In contrast to Kershaw, Bosworth's volume is not as definitive as a history of Italy.  <br />Bosworth's eye for detail is not as consistently damning as Mack Smith, but we do learn some interesting new things.  Bosworth provides more detail about Mussolini's ill health, his many affairs, as well as the oddly complicated fate of his corpse. We also learn more about Mussolini's children, who were a shallow and unappealing lot.  We learn that Claretta Petacci, Mussolini's last mistress, had a tendency to whinge and to lie all day in bed eating chocolate.  We learn that Mussolini's wife hated her son in law Count Ciano for, among other reasons, playing golf.  We learn that Mussolini was by far the most prolific of leading fascists at producing children, the average being otherwise only 1.9 children.  Fascism claimed to be a modernizing dictatorship, yet in 1931 a smaller proportion of university students were from the working class than in 1911, Mussolini did a poorer job in confronting illiteracy than, say, Stalin, while the growth rate was lower than that in Baldwin's England, and half that of Social Democratic Sweden. If Fascism is defined as the symbiosis of vicious cruelty and modernizing change, Franco was far more of a fascist than Mussolini.    Like Mack Smith, Bosworth has no patience for those who try to argue that Mussolini after 1914 had any real radical principles, and he quotes an article Mussolini wrote in 1918 saying that the ideal dictator should be Woodrow Wilson.  We learn about gullible pro-Fascist supporters, including the ordinarily very sensible Clementine Churchill, while we hear Pius XI speak approvingly in 1932 of a \\"Catholic totalitarianism\\" and babbling to Mussolini that same year that all of the Church's troubles were the fault of the Jews.  In the end Bosworth concludes \\"His propagandists declared that he was always right.  However, in the most profound matters which touch on the human condition, he was, with little exception, wrong.\\"	2002-06-05
US	52562171	R31WZJC3AXI200	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The classic work on totalitariansim	With the exception of \\"Animal Farm,\\" it would be hard to think of a work of satire in the English language that is as powerful as \\"1984\\" (actually \\"Nineteen Eighty Four\\").  Whereas the Whig-Tory squabbles that make up the background of \\"Gulliver's Travels,\\" are mostly forgotten now, the totalitarian essence of Airstrip One still haunts the imagination of the First World.  No other major novel this century has produced so many memorable terms.  Not simply fantasies of universal surveillance, but also \\"Newspeak,\\" \\"Doublethink,\\" \\"the Ministry of Truth,\\" \\"Sex Crime\\" \\"Thoughtcrime,\\" \\"Two Minute Hate,\\" \\"Memory Hole,\\" \\"Room 101,\\" \\"If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face--for ever.\\"  Indeed, not since Dickens has there been such a novelist so much on the popular consciousness.<br />Since there are already several hundred reviews in praise of this book, I will devote the rest of this review to providing some reservations.  It is often said that Orwell is a master analyst of totalitarianism.  Dead wrong, in my view.  On the Nazi side of the Molotov-Ribbentrop symbiosis, Orwell has rather little to say.  There is no systematic analysis of Nazism, no evaluation of Nazi terror, and, in retrospect most damning of all, no real appreciation of the singular importance of the Holocaust.  A look at \\"Revenge is Sour\\", which opens up the fourth volume of Orwell's collected journalism, reveals his limitations dramatically.  However just and liberal his opposition to revenge is, Orwell's account fails because he has never had any experience which could make him understand those feelings.  It is like reading a denunciation of pornography from a cardinal who has been blind from birth.<br />What is most powerful in Orwell's account is his satire on Communist dishonesty.  (About Nazi irrationalism and fanaticism he has little to say.)  Why Oceania commits the barbarisms it does is more open to question.  Rather oddly, given his frequent skepticism about Progressive pieties, Orwell appears to believe that a growing economy would be in itself sufficient to provide the goods and services a just society needs.  Since the three world states wish to prevent that, they encourage endless war which wastes any surplus, and which supports their own regimes by permanent war psychosis.  The result is an endless stagnation, and a horrifying stability which could last forever.<br />Now an economic slowdown was clearly a problem with the Soviet Union in the last decades of its life, but equally clearly it was not intended to be that way.  More importantly, the worst Communist atrocities, Collectivization and the Great Leap Forward were attempts to radically change society.  Soviet Stalinism was a society that went through every sort of radical change imaginable.  It was not a society whose crimes were rooted in stasis.<br />Other objections.  England no longer exists, there is only \\"Airstrip One.\\"  Orwell set his nightmare world in England to challenge his countrymen's complacency.  But arguably he reinforced it by showing that it could only occur in an England which was already dead.  It was perhaps this aspect that appealed to Czeslaw Milosz and other Polish exiles who viewed their own country as an innocent swamped and threatened by Russian aggression imposing a thoroughly UnPolish society.  While this view had a great deal of truth to it, the fact that the former Communists have won two free presidential elections in a whole, suggests that it is not the whole truth.  Viewing totalitarianism as a deracinated purging of authentic local traditions has obvious limits.  Clearly the Axis countries were militantly nationalist, and it is clear that Communist regimes could not have survived in China, the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Cuba, Vietnam and North Korea without successfully appealing to some aspects of nationalism and national culture.  All Communist countries appealed to local traditions (has there ever been any kind of regime that did not?), and Orwell should have taken this into account.  Likewise romantic love is viewed as Winston's salvation, yet Claudia Koonz, Geoff Eley have pointed out how Nazism gained strength from its appeal to conventional ideas of family.  And Richard Stites has pointed out that Stalin's policy cannot simply be viewed as anti-family.<br />Another weakness of the book is its view of Stalinism as one based on intellectuals.  While it could be said of Lenin's dictatorship that the government was dominated by intellectuals, one could not really apply that term to Beria, Zhadanov, or Molotov.  Too much concentration on the sins of a Heidegger distracts one from the far greater crimes of the Wehrmacht and I.G. Farben.  But the greatest weakness of the book is O'Brien.  O'Brien's lust for power is so deranged as to be pyschotic.  That he lives only for others to suffer tells us nothing about how torturers work.  (It does not help the book that Orwell cannot tell the metaphysical difference between a statement such as \\"Germany and the Soviet Union signed a non-aggression pact in August 1939.\\" and \\"2+2=4\\".  The first is a historical fact, the second is a tautology.  It would be evil to try to torture people to deny the first, madness the second.)  In his portrait Orwell reveals his inability to understand such a personality.  Indeed, such a person could not really be human at all.  Surely in the name of all that is humane and tolerated, he must be extirpated, like a demon.  Arendt's concept of the banality of evil or Sartre's view of the anti-Semite have their limitations, but they tell us more than Orwell does, as does, from the inside as it were, Celine's own later novels.	2002-06-03
US	52562171	R2S9VBXPNOGDYC	0805210997	986509919	The Iron Tracks: A novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	From one of the world's greatest novelists	Aharon Appelfeld is one of the world's greatest living novelists, and this novel demonstrates his many virtues.  Like his previous works \\"The Age of Wonders\\" and \\"The Immortal Bartfuss\\" it is short, it concentrates on Holocaust survivors, and its style is sparse, elliptical.  Erwin Siegelbaum is in late middle age and has spent decades riding the trains in Austria.  He makes his living by finding Jewish memorobillia in the now Judenrein countryside and buying them from gentiles who cannot recognize their value.  It is a depressing business, since the Austrian countryside is drab, ugly, and ungenerous, even without the vicious anti-Semitism that Siegelbaum encounters.  One converted Jew wishes that it could be wiped away like Sodom and Gommorah, and Siegelbaum at the end of the novel wishes that he could burn one town down to the ground.  At the same time he is searching for vengeance against the Nazi officer who murdered his parents. <br />The legitimacy of this quest is not questioned by Siegelbaum, but by the end it is clear that it is not a sufficient or  adequate solution to Siegelbaum's miserable, loveless life.  What, after all is it like to avenge one parents, not in the abstract, but one's own actual parents?  As in his earlier novels, there is the inevitable sickening ambiguity.  His parents, Communist organizers, were not cruel to him, and they made considerable sacrifices for their cause.  But they were often naive about the Ruthenians they tried to organize, they attacked Jewish capitalists, and were of course compromised by the Stalinist nature of the party.  Erwin's father shortchanged his education, because he saw a normal education as an evil bourgeois plot (a view, given the nature of authoritarian Europe in the 1930s, that  is not entirely inaccurate).  His mother is burdened by a world-weariness that drains life from her before her death in a camp.  After the war Siegelbaum encounters his parent's former Communist comrades and in his wandering heexperiences the dissolution and decay of their ideals.  If he is trapped by the past, others cannot be bothered to remember it (he encounters a quarter-Jew who is surprised to find out that the Old Testament did not mention Jesus.)  <br />And so Siegelbaum rides the trains, bribing the waiter to switch the radio to the classical music station.  Zionism or Orthodoxy do not bring him comfort and solace(\\"Religious Jews frighten me\\"); his connection to Judaism that forced upon him by history and inertia:  \\"My memory is a powerful machine that stores and constantly discharges lost years and faces.  In the past I believed that travel would blunt my memory; I was wrong.  Over the years, I must admit, it has only grown stronger.  Were it not for my memory, my life would be different--better I assume.\\"  Recently however \\"A glass of cognac, for instance, separates me from my memory for a while.  I feel relief as if after a terrible toothache.\\"  <br />Siegelbaum's connections to women are brief:  \\"Love for a station or two is love without pretense and soon forgotten.  Any contact beyond that pollutes the emotions and threatens to leave behind recriminations.  Women, I regret to say, don't understand this.  They do themselves a disservice, and me too, of course.\\"  This passage perfectly captures a certain variation of masculine bad faith.  There are many other finely observed passages, whose absence of metaphor or stylistic eccentricity more sharply reveal Appelfeld's psychological acuity:  \\"At night, before going to sleep, [my mother] would read me poems by Heine.  I doubt that I understood anything.  But the sounds flowed softly into my ears.  I would be cut loose from the waking world and slip into deep sleep.  Even in difficult times, when she grew morose, swallowing drink after drink, she would pick up a book and read, like someone preparing for better times.\\"  There is the disconcerting atmosphere of the small town of  Gruendorf: \\"There seems to be no air like Gruendorfs, and during my first stays here I didnt even realize why.  But now I know: it is the subtle fragrance that rises from the poppies.  An odorless smell, a smell that has no obvious sign, but that directly works on the nervous system.  In the past I used to flee from the place immediately, but I soon learned that flight was no use.\\"  But perhaps the supreme value of Appelfelds message in his not his observation, but his restatement in a uniquely subtle and unmeretricious way of a vital truth.  Sacrifice may be a sign of virtue, but suffering does not make one a better person.  In few other authors work is it made clear that being a victim is not enough, one has still suffered but is not redeemed thereby.  \\"If I had a different life, it wouldnt be happy.  As in all my clear and drawn-out nightmares.  I saw the sea of darkness, and I knew that my deeds had neither dedication nor beauty.  I had done everything out of compulsion, clumsily, and always too late.\\"	2002-05-27
US	52562171	R20MJLQR1FK8B7	0374154767	278415393	The Feast of the Goat	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Latin American Dictator Novel-Neoliberal version	Mario Vargas Llosa's novel about the assassination of General Trujillo, the dictator of the Dominican Republic, possess considerable power.  If not on the level of \\"The War of the End of the World,\\" \\"The Feast of the Goat,\\" is still a major achievement.  As always, Vargas Llosa's technique is in fine form.  Consider his description of the noise of Santo Dominigo:  \\"Today all the clamor of life--car engines, cassettes, records, radios, horns, barks, growls, human voices--seems to resound at top volume, producing vocal, mechanical, digital, or animal noise at maximum capacity (dogs bark louder, birds chirp with more enthusiasm).\\"  Or consider his description of the Trujillo mansion:  \\"She barely noticed the portraits and pictures of the Generalissimo--on foot and on horseback, in military uniform or dressed as a farmer, sitting at a desk or standing behind a lectern wearing the presidential sash--that hung on the walls, or the silver trophies and framed certificates won by the dairy cows and thoroughbred horse of the Fundacion Ranch, intermingled with plastic ashtrays and cheap decorations, still bearing the labels of Macy's in New York...\\"<br />Vargas Llosa is masterful in evoking the atmosphere of fear and sycophancy that reigns among Trujillo and his subordinates.  There are several gripping scenes about the horrible tortures that Trujillo's assasins underwent after things went horribly wrong.  There is also Vargas Llosa's attempt to understand the dictator.  Wisely, perhaps, there is no attempt at false sympathy (one thinks of the portrait of Hitler that occurs in \\"Life and Fate\\") and he presents to us the unimaginative, vicious martinet, proud of his punctuality, hard work, sense of cleanliness, inability to sweat as he indulges his special vice, rape.  <br />Still, one should not accept this version on faith.  \\"The War of the End of the World,\\" was praised for the way it appeared to allot sympathies to both sides.  But as Robert Levine pointed out in his book onthe Canudos Massacre, the book is flawed because Anthony the Counsellor was not the millenialist fanatic that Vargas Llosa's neoliberal ideology wished to emphasize.    How has Vargas Llosa's ideology affected this novel?  Well, for a start, it is some importance to point out that Joaquim Balauger's reforms after the death of Trujillo did NOT turn the Dominican Republic into a democracy.  It is important to point that when Antonio Imbert, one of only two of Trujillo's assassins to survive, returned to public life, he did not have a liberal or a benign effect on Dominican society.  And as Piero Gleijeses has pointed out in the definitive book on the topic, when Dominicans did try to achieve a real democracy, the Americans intervened in 1965 to stop them.  One does not get that from the novel.<br />An emphasis on the heroic assassins produces an individualist bias that tends to downplay the mobilization, organization and debate needed to create a viable democracy.  There is another bias.  The assassins were all part of the Trujillista establishment.  Vargas Llosa tends to emphasize their honorable motives for resistance, that they opposed Trujillo because of the vicious acts of cruelty he committed.  In his discussion of General Roman's failure to provide necessary support for the assassins, Vargas Llosa emphasizes the hypnotic effect the dictator still had on Roman, as opposed to rank cowardice ad fear.  Still, in providing these details, methinks Vargas Llosa doth protest too much.  Given their horrible fates it might be churlish to suggest that they tried to kill Trujillo because after his denunciation by both the church and the Americans they knew which way the wind was blowing.  But the result is like looking at Hitler from the perspective of the plotters of July 20th, while ignoring all the other victims.  Trujillo, after all was a tyrant who oppressed all Dominicans.  Yet there is an unseemly emphasis on the betrayals of those closest to him, the murders of the middle class resistance, as if what happened to that small class mattered more than the overwhelming majority of the country.  There is a brief discussion of the thousands of Haitians whom Trujillo ordered murdered in the thirties, and the fact that he and his pathological family have looted much of the country.  But the old left-wing Latin American criticism that the United States wanted a \\"Trujilloism without Trujillo\\", ie the same old exploitive, repressive and subservient structures but without a patently certifiable psychotic embarrassing everyone, is not so much refuted, as evaded.  There is a certain cunning in this.<br />Trujillo and his accomplices like to describes themselves as bringing order and progress to this, but it is hard to see, at least in this book, why anyone would be convinced by this.  And the concluding epiphany on sexual tyranny shows, in my opinion, that Vargas Llosa is better in describing machismo than its victims.  During his unsuccessful run for the Peruvian presidency in 1990, Vargas Llosa received much empty praise as the heroic courageous man who would make Peru safe for liberalism.  Clearly this flattery has influenced and shaped the form of this beguiling yet partly hollow novel.	2002-05-23
US	52562171	R1YA8D8FEC7M7G	0520225341	35703004	France, the United States, and the Algerian War	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Competent, kind of dull	Irwin Wall's book on American relations with France during the Algerian war of independence is a sequel to his book on how America supported (and manipulated) France during the Fourth Republic.  It is not as interesting as that book, but it provides a workmanlike overview of the problem.  It shows the Eisenhower Administration in its best light (it has much less to say about Kennedy).  Overall Eisenhower was an intelligent man, much more so than was thought at the time, and he was personally decent, in striking contrast to most of his successors.  But his administration was deeply unimaginative and unsympathetic and his Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, was extremely narro-minded and dogmatic, very bad qualities for a diplomat.  Notwithstanding these problems, the Americans soon realized that the French could not suppress the FLN and that ultimately autonomy and independence were inevitable. Here Eisenhower and Dulles are in their best light, tactfully offering advice to a French government that will not lessen, not (for once) being hoodwinked by the claims of the French to be fighting communism, and making their own contacts with the FLN.  They are properly angry over the British-French-Israeli aggression at Suez, and understandably disturbed over the French attack on Sakiet, Tunisia, where it is not clear whether the army or the government is in control.  Given the unreliability of the government they decide that it would not be that bad an idea for De Gaulle to take power and inaugurate the fifth French Republic.<br />Much of this book narrowly reads the available diplomatic materials and often reads as a paraphrase of rather inconclusive discussions between the Americans, the French and the British on such questions as Algeria, trying to revamp NATO to increase French power (unsuccessfully), and the question of a French nuclear deterrent.  Wall does have an important new thesis:  in contrast to the hagiography around De Gaulle, he argues that the presidentdid not in fact plan in 1958 to eventually give Algeria independence, but in fact wanted to keep it as French as possible.  Unfortunately for the reader, the book is more than half over by the time he encounters this.  The thesis is interesting and is certainly plausible; De Gaulle did appear to wish to cover Algeria in new euphemisms for dependence.  And if true, it would mean that De Gaulle prolonged the war with worse results than if the government had stared down the military rebels in 1958.  Still it is not definitive, since De Gaulle spoke different things to different people.  Wall's verdict on De Gaulle's foreign policy is largely negative, since he achieved very little.  Wall does make the interesting comment that by concentrating on the prestige item of nuclear weapons, De Gaulle failed to modernize conventional forces which would have made France more effective in a post cold-war Europe.  One problem with this book is that Wall is somewhat repetitive.  Another, and more serious problem, is that one learns relatively little about the partner in America's negotiations.  The contrast with Walter Lafeber's The Clash on Japan, or Piero Gleijeses' Shattered Hope on Guatemala, or Neil Sheehan's A Bright Shining Lie on Vietnam is striking.  There is some interesting information on France; there is much less, however on Algeria itself.	2002-05-22
US	52562171	R17HLFBKY2LX7L	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	2	17	28	N	N	Worth one and a half stars.  Almost obscene in its fatuity	This is supposedly a novel about the Sri Lankan civil war.  In fact it is nothing of the kind.  The novel does take place in Sri Lanka, there is certainly a war going on, with people being brutally murdered by at least three sides, and the characters are supposedly involved in trying to find out who is responsible for the corpse (known as \\"Sailor\\") they have found.  But there is no discussion of why this war is going on.  Sri Lanka is a democracy, yet there is no politics in the book.  The characters are all upper middle class professionals but they are not politically conscious, not politically active, do not debate the course of the war, do not seriously discuss proposals how to end it, or seriously ponder about the fate of their unhappy country.  The contrast with, say, V.S. Naipaul is striking in revealing Ondaatje's frivolous irresponsiblity.<br />But of course, if Ondaatje wrote a book which actually looked at the complex politics of the country where he was born in, he might lose the middlebrow readers who were so attracted to the orientalism and exoticism of \\"The English Patient.\\"  Ondaatje wrotes in a prose that is less lyrical than lush.  And so we get a large amount of pretentious blather that can be confused for poetry.  Note the drivel about truth, dream and secrets on page 259.  Or consider these passages:  \\"A paranoid is someone with all the facts, the joke went.  Maybe this was the only truth here.\\" (54)  \\"We are full of anarchy.  We take our clothers off because we shouldn't take our clothers off.\\" (138)  \\"But in the midst of such [traumatic] events, she realized, there could never be any logic to the human violence without the distance of time.  For now it would be reported, filed in Geneva, but no one could ever give meaning to it.\\"  (57)  Consider this last passage, a textbook example of what's wrong with this book.  It is not simply a good example of false profundity.  It is actually false.  One can think of many contemporary writers who are capable of giving meaning to this sort of violence.  If not perfect, writers as varied as Gordimer, Coetzee, Rushdie, Vargas Llosa, Roa Bastos, Naipaul, Sebald, Morrison and Appelfeld certainly do a substantially better job than Ondaatje. <br />So what do we see in this novel about forensic scientist Anil Tissera and her colleagues as they ruminate about their lives?  Well, we have a few scenes of soft-core exoticism, and there is a fashionable suggestion of incest.  There are some scenes from the war which may be more powerful if they were actually accurate.  The brutal assassination at the end of the novel is supposedly a historical event, but the victim's real name is not given.  There is no real discussion of the motive of the crime, or even the identity of the people who murdered one of the main characters.  There is an interesting scene in which a kidnapped and blindfolded man is awkwardly forced to ride along with the captor on the latter's bicycle.<br />Ondaatje also brings in details about forensics, with limited results.  We learn that if shrapnel flies through you from a bomb explosion and you are not killed or wounded, you should be all right because the heat of the explosion would have sterilized the shrapnel.  We also learn that the shock wave of an explosion can flip your stomach over.  One of the few scenes that show any life is a discussion Anil and a friend of hers has other wounds in movies.  Is the shooting of John Ireland in \\"Red River\\" anatomically accurate?  But Ondaatje is too pompous a writer to let this rare example of humour pass, and soon we see a letter about a shooting in \\"Point Blank,\\" filled with all sorts of portentousness.  And several times \\"The bone of choice would be the femur\\" is pompously repeated. Oh yes, Anil's friend is a lesbian and she suffers from Alzheimer's.  About midpoint through the novel we learn that Anil was previously married, not to anyone really deserving of her affection.  The sex was great, but they weren't really compatible and he cried too easily.  I swear that is an accurate summary.  It is at this point that one realizes that not only is this book simply playing at politics.  It is also playing at love, emotion, moral complexity and any other concept deserving of sustained criticale examination.  What makes this book so particulary contemptible is that many readers may believe that Ondaatje's rhetoric on these subjects is the real thing.	2002-05-14
US	52562171	RM8O3QFVLND3H	0807826472	359957947	Conflicting Missions: Havana, Washington, and Africa, 1959-1976	Books	4	41	48	N	N	Excellently researched	Before going into greater detail about this fascinating history of Cuban-African relations, let's start off by noting the dimensions of Gleijeses' research.  His work uses the archives of six pages, including unprecedented access to the Cuban ones, and he studied more than forty sets of papers in the American ones.  (This is espeically impressive since many papers from that time have yet to be fully declassified.)  He looked at the newspapers from thirty countries and he conducted well over a hundred interviews.  The result is an impressive work of research, and while not as thorough or as revelatory as Gleijeses's book on the Guatamelan Revolution, is still the most useful work on the subject and is now the book one will look at to understand the 1975 Angolan crisis.<br />Gleijeses' thesis is rather simple.  Castro's Cuba was sincerely motivated to encourage revolution in Africa, and from the early sixties onward sought to encourage it by sending advisors, soldiers, desparately needed doctors and other assistance.  In doing so Cuba acted out of its own concerns and not as a puppet of the Soviet Union.  The first major action was when Cuba helped Algeria ward off Moroccan aggression in 1963.  A larger intervention was to assist rebels in Congo/Zaire against the corrupt Tshombe and Mobutu governments.  Although not very skillful themselves the Simba rebels were able to repel the hopelessly demoralized army.  As it happened the United States secretly arranged for white mercenaries to buck up the Congolese.  By the time that Che Guevera went over personally to assist the rebels in 1965, the mercenaries' brutal actions had essentially won the war.  Gleijeses is particularly good on the sources for this affair, about how the United States managed to keep their sponsorship of the mercenaries out of the press, and how the media gave these brutal thugs an astonshingly free ride.  ...  Gleijeses also shows that Jon Lee Anderson is probably wrong in suggesting that Guevera was pushed into going to Zaire, and he ably shows that Dariel Alarcon's own controversial account is vitiated by the fact that he was never in Zaire.<br />Gleijeses also discusses Cuba's awkward arrangements with the pseudo-radical government of Congo (Brazzaville) and the crucial assistance it gave to the liberation movement of Guinea-Bissau.  Gleijeses helpfully reminds us of the Nixon policy's support of white supremacy:  in the November 1972 vote that declared the PAIGC the legitimate government of Guinea-Bissau there were only six opponents.  One was Portugal, the occupying power.  The rest were militarist Brazil, quasi-fascist Spain, apartheid South Africa, and oh yes, Edward Heath's Britian, and Richard Nixon's America.<br />But it is Gleijeses' account of the Angolan crisis that makes this book so valuable.  It contains a point by point refutation of Kissinger's account in the latter's Year of Renewal.  Very simply, when Portugeuse dictatorship collapsed in 1974, there were three rebel groups in Angola struggling for power.  There was the quasi-Marxist MPLA, and the anti-Marxist FNLA and UNITA.  American intelligence noted that the FNLA was \\"totally corrupt\\", \\"subservient\\" to the vile Mobutu regime, and it paid him a generous subsidy.  Although Jonas Savimbi, the head of the UNITA became something of a conservative hero in the eighties, Gleijeses points out that he collaborated with the Portuguese before 1974.  We also get to see him double-talking, approaching the South Africans to assist him.  He fully agreed to sell out SWAPO, the liberation movement of Namibia, which links Angola to South Africa and at the time was illegally occupied by the latter.  Once South African intervention could not be concealed Savimbi pretended to be defending Angola along with the MPLA and SWAPO.<br />As for the MPLA although it was at time militarily weak and time and the stresses of war would enhance its corrupt and authoritarian features, the Portuguese army stated \\"it remained the most important movement in Angloa.\\"  Those Americans who were actually in Angola (and whose advice was ignored by Kissinger) agreed that it was \\"the only Angolan organization that had any national representativeness, that could be considered an Angolan-wide organization.\\"  The same Americans agreed that it had the support of the most intelligent and politically conscious people in the country.  And so Gleijeses refutes arguments that Russian and Cuban aid for MPLA before October 1975 massively swamped aid for the FNLA and UNITA.  Contrary to the arguments of UNITA supporters, American intelligence agreed that the Portuguese officials in the transition to independence were not supporting the MPLA.  Gleijeses also reminds us that the MPLA was winning before either South Africa or Cuba intervened.  He also points out that the problems Kissinger was having with detente in 1975 over SALT, the Middle East, Italy and Portugal had nothing to do with Russian aggressiveness, but that intervening in Angola would strengthen his hand in Republican Party infighting.  All in all, this is a superb autopsy of a callous and ill-thought out policy, and should be read by anyone who admires Kissinger.	2002-05-11
US	52562171	R1EB7GND16GS4H	0684819031	256559702	Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and the Failure of the West	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Betrayal	On January 8, 1993 a UN convoy was transporting the vice-President of Bosnia, Dr. Hakija Turajlic back to Sarajevo when it was stopped by a Serb convoy.  The UN commander, French Colonel Patrice Sartre did not call for help from the UNPROFOR aiport garrison. Instead he sent away three British Warrior fighting vehicles on the scene, saying there wasn't a problem.  In order to demonstrate that there were no \\"Mujahedin\\" riding along with Dr. Turajlic, Sartre opened the door to the truck Turajlic was sitting in.  Whereupon a Bosnian Serb promptly assasinated him.  For this grotesque act of incompetence, Sartre was not court-martialed and shot, but fully exonerated by the United Nations, and on his return to France was given the Legion of Honor.  Later he would help the French intervention to save their genocidal allies in Rwanda.<br />One might say that this horrible episode, as recounted in David Rieff's excellent and properly outraged book, was typical of the world's reaction to Bosnia:  a false neutrality between the murderer and the victim moving towards active indulgence of the former against the latter; a refusal to accept the blame or responsibility for one's actions; a member country of the United Nations actively betrayed by the UN whose paths to peace amount to its liquidation.  One might say this, but that would not be enough.  Rieff reminds us of the full horror and obscenity of the Bosnian war, and provides a shocking picture of Western callousness.  <br />He reminds us of the obvious.  Here is a democratic multicultural republic who has no defenders in either the United Nations or in the European Community.  For years the Soviet grip on Eastern Europe was the United States' best argument in the cold war.  Yet nothing Husak or Honecker ever did was as foul as the butchery of Srebrenica.  200,000 people were slaughtered in ethnic cleansing and millions made homeless, the worst atrocity in Europe since the death of Stalin.  But the ironies of the war are suchthat the one multicultural community in Bosnia found itself called \\"the Muslims.\\" Meanwhile the irridentists seeking to destroy it were called the \\"Serbs\\" and \\"Croats\\" in the international press, and not Orthodox or Catholic, Chetnik or Ustashe.  There is the whole pointlessness of the nationalist enterprise, as Serbs and Croats emphasize their distinct variety of Christianity when most of them are agnostic, while special nationalist intellectuals seeks to dream up new vocabularies or emphasize special alphabets to get around the fact that all three countries speak the same language.<br />Rieff argues, rightly, that only NATO intervention could have stopped ethnic cleansing. He also points out, again rightly as we can see from the case of Kosovo, that had they done so the Bosnian Serbs would have quickly compromised or been quickly defeated.  He also notes the strain and pressure that the multicultural and democratic values of Bosnia were put under by the unrelenting strain and viciousness, and he also notes how the thugs of Karadzic and the cowards of the UN and the US leaped on the rising fundamentalism and intolerance as vindication of their own vile stand.  We see the United Nations trapped in the worst set of bureaucratic mindset, with corrupt soldiers on the ground.  The UN fully accepts George Orwell's ironic dictum that the quickest way to end a war is to lose it, and do everything they can to discourage the Bosnians.  Increasingly, it seems that instead of sacrificing its political capital to help Bosnians, Bosnians should sacrifice everything for the UN's convenience.  And so we see the Canadian general Lewis Mackenzie and the British General Sir Michael Rose insinuating, never frankly declaring, that the Bosnians shelled their own people.  It is amazing that Mackenzie entered federal politics after his return home, and had the voters of an otherwise extremely conservative rural Ontario riding wisely re-elected the liberal incumbent, this most overrated of men could have been viewed as a potential leader of the opposition, even a potential prime minister.  Rieff's book is worth reading alone just for pointing out the truth about him.	2002-05-07
US	52562171	R39O5PZUKIQ2KR	1859846793	348527795	The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity	Books	3	44	55	N	N	Mixed	This is a peculiar hybrid of a book.  Much of it was written before the attacks of September 11, others were written after it in response to the American-Afghanistan war.  Tariq Ali has been for decades both a leading British Trotskyist and the author of justifiably well-regarded books on Pakistan and the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty that has ruled India.  He is also one of the leading voices against American interventionism, both in Afghanistan and in Kosovo.  The title is somewhat misleading, more provocative than descriptive, since five-sixths of the book deals with the fate of Islam.  It starts off with Ali's atheist boyhood back in his native Pakistan, a description of the origins of Islam, the rise of Israel and the failure of Nassar's Egypt to provide a secular leftist politics, and the rise of fundamentalism in Iran and elsewhere as the toxic alternative.  It goes on to describe the miserable fate of secular politics in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kashmir.<br />The result overall is mixed.  The best pages are Ali's chapter on the complicated question of Kashmir, how the stubborness and venality of the Congress Party has helped Hindu and Moslem bigots make things so much worse.  The autobiographical chapters are fascinating, and one learns how many Pakistani view Islamic clerics as little more than child molesters.  He helpfully includes Isaac Deutscher's prescient comments on the the six day war, and there is a good comment against Ian Buruma.  Ali is willing to criticize his own side, and the pages on the Iranian Communist Party's attempted appeasement of the Khomenei regime, followed by its own liquidation and inglorious public \\"confession\\" make grim reading.  Although something of a retread of his previous books, the chapters on Pakistan are good reading and they do help explain his intense dislike of the United States.  It is important to point out that throughout its post-1945 relations with the Muslim world, the United States has willingly worked with the worstsorts of fundmaentalists, militarists, petty despots and worse to achieve its ends.  It has been the key supporter of Israel's recalcitrance against Palestine.  In Lebanon it supported the minority Christians and their rigged confessional constitution.  It supports Turkey's war against the Kurds and has allowed them to partition Cyprus.  Its alliance with Saudi Arabia has made the country safe for a monarchy with a unique combination of public fanaticism and private indulgence.  It glorified the Shah of Iran as a model ruler and it supported the worst sort of religious bigotry to drive out the Communists from Afghanistan.  It supported Suharto's massacres in Indonesia in 1965 and in East Timor from 1975 onwards.  In Somalia in 1993 it cared more about being tough rather than offering useful protection against malaria. And in Pakistan, a Pakistan which is now the one Muslim country with atomic weapons, it has always preferred to be flattered by militarist sycophants than criticized by Indian democrats.  In 1954, 1958, 1977 it supported militarists against the wishes of the Pakistani people, and in 1971 it \\"tilted\\" to the murderous leaders who slaughtered hundreds of thousands of people in Bangladesh in their attempt to prevent the freely elected government from taking power.  The reign of Zia-al-Haq, generously subsidized by the Americans, was vital in encouraging a Fundamentalist mindset that has actually been decisively rejected by Pakistanis on those rare occasions when the generals and the Americans have deigned to allow them to vote.  It is important to note that much American concern over Iraq is less over Hussein's tyranny than embarassment that he is still in power.  <br />What are the flaws?  Well, the chapter on American imperialism is unoriginal, a potted summary of General Smedley Butler (whose birthdate Ali gets wrong), Eisenhower's warnings on the military-industrial complex, and the Vietnam war.  The chapters on the origins of Islam could have been better supported.  Moreover, it is hard to support his outrage over America's intervention in Kosovo or Afghanistan.  It may be true that Serbian atrocities in Kosovo were exaggerated, but after Sbrenicia Milosevic has lost all right to the benefit of the doubt.  And do we really wish to tolerate ethnic cleansing caused by spreading panic and force, as opposed to physical extermination?  As for Afghanistan, while it will take many years to see if in fact a moderately just and decent regime has established itself, and while there is every reason that America's foreign policy leaders will be less interested in providing help than in providing themselves with an alibi when things go wrong, one cannot deny that Bin Laden's actions provide a classic causus belli for American reaction.  Many people have grudges against the United States, Bin Laden and the Taliban clearly have the least justifiable, and their reaction is clearly the most atrocious.  And I think that Christian fundamentalism in the United States, despite its creationist and apocalyptic acts against reason, is clearly subordinate to the capitalist conservative ideology of the Republican party.  This should be pointed out in comparison to the Islamic Fundamentalism.  All in all, therefore, not fully convincing.	2002-05-04
US	52562171	R3U9HY8GSRSEKH	0674831780	344495792	Speaking of Sex: The Denial of Gender Inequality	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Eminently sensible, worth four and a half stars	Reading this sensible and intelligent book, and remembering how much I enjoyed Rhode's later book on the reform of the legal profession, I wondered why it is that such an eminently reasonable and articulate woman, who has provided such a thorough and well documented defense of feminism, should be so obscure in the world of public intellectuals.  Rhode teaches at Stanford Law School, this book is published by Harvard University Press, and she does not write in a the complex academic jargon that all good journalists are trained to hate.  Yet she is never called upon when journals like The New Republic or the New York Review of Books thinks it should have a female contributor.  <br />Pity, because this is a good book.  Let's start off with \\"Ideology and Biology.\\"  Rhode points out the flaws in biological explanations in sex differences.  There are species of primates where the men tend the infants and the women forage for food.  Media trumpet studies that point out gender differences, and ignore the many studies that find no difference or are ambiguous (especially on PMS).  Over the last thirty years the differences in math scores between boys and girls has dropped dramatically.  Those differences that do remain \\"have not taken account of even obvious influences such as the number of courses taken.\\"  \\"Many studies find no correlation between levels of testosterone and violence, hostility, or aggression.\\"  Much of the gender gap on physical strength is clearly related to our aesthetic desire for unhealthily thin women and our desire to encourage boys sports.  \\"Men may be more likely to use speech patterns to establish control because they are more likely to occupy positions where they are IN control.\\"  \\"Beginning at Birth\\" starts off with how in 1918 one journal stated that boys should be clothed in pink and girls in blue, since it was obvious that pink was the more masculine colour.   And we're off to how toys rigidly reinforce gender rules and unreasonable body ideals.  If you think that it may simply be PC to worry that Barbie Dolls are unrealistic, consider the survey of 33,000 females.  Three-quarters considered themselves too fat, though only a quarter were overweight and a third were underweight.  \\"In recent surveys [of children's books], male characters come up with solutions five to eight times as often as females, and females care for children eight times as often as males.\\"  Then it's on to Media Images, about how the media euphemize rape and how incredibly snotty TIME magazine was towards feminism during the 1970s.<br />One cannot go into full detail about the next chapters, which look at sex and violence, about the problems of women's work, about family values (and in particular, welfare, child custody and teenage pregnancy).  What one should point out is how well documented this book is, with 79 pages of notes to 250 pages of text.  Moreover consider the depth of the sources.  Rhode quotes anti-feminists in considerable detail. She has read very widely not only in her own chosen field of law, but also in science, education, media criticism, sociology and economics.  The scholarship quoted in widespread and representative.  She demonstrates in considerable detail that in rape, domestic violence, employment discrimination and sexual harrassment cases the presumption of innocence is definetely alive and well.  One is struck at how difficult it is to prove these cases.  Rhode quotes cases about how a woman who was maced, taunted and handcuffed to a toilet did not prove sexual harrassment.   There is the (admittedly exceptional case) about the convicted murderer who got custody of his child over the lesbian mother.  Or consider the open and shut case of discrimination at Price Waterhouse.  Though ultimately successful it took seven years for Ann Hopkins to claim partnership at a firm where 98.9% of the partners were men, where she had billed more hours and brought more business than any other nominee that year, had gottenhigh ratings from her clients, and who was unfairly criticized as lacking in \\"charm,\\" while similarly \\"abrasive\\" men had no problems getting promotions.  We get a useful introduction to pay equity, where otherwise nurses would earn less than tree trimmers, schoolteachers earn less than state liquor store clerks and librarians earn less than street crossing guards.  The book is not perfect.  Katha Pollitt pointed out that the book is rather weak in providing political strategies, though if it were easy to think up it would already have happened.  And comic books have provided more female heroes in recent years.  But it is a book that everyone should read, and by a woman who should be a leading public intellectual if male centrists had the courage to listen to what she had to say.	2002-04-28
US	52562171	R1RGRGK7QH6OOX	0691049491	630610954	Teach Me Dreams	Books	4	1	2	N	N	In Dreams Begin Responsibilities	This is a difficult book.  People will find it repetitive and others will find it narrowily sourced.  Yet the book offers an important account of a change of transcendent importance.  People have often talked about the rise of modern individualism in the prologue and aftermath of the American revolution.  Sobel, however, offers a much more radical thesis.  What the years from 1740 to 1840 saw was the rise of a radical new sense of SELF.  Previous our inner persona had been passive and communal.  People often went through lives believing they did not have choices.  But in the triumph of the American revolution and the rise of a new market society, the self became ostentatiously active and individualist.  The very concept that we use to see ourselves is a relatively recent invention. (pp. 3-7) Sobel's specific contribution is to examine dreams.  Recent research on dreams suggests that elements of dream correlate with the amount that one is individualist.  Studies of dreams in Nazi Germany suggest that people started supported the Nazis in their dreams before they supported them consciously. (p. 10)  At the time Sobel's study begins dreams were of particular importance to people as signs or portents, though by the end of our period they were viewed as comparatively unimportant.<br />The rise of the self is not the unmitigated triumph of individualist freedom.  Quite the contrary, for concepts of the self are often defined in hostility, and increasingly hatred of the abstracted, reified \\"Other.\\"  Increasingly many whites viewed themselves in opposition to blacks.  Yet at the same time blackface reflected the envy of proletarianized whites for what they saw as the laziness and abandon of African-Americans.  (p. 97)  Blacks in turn often viewed whites with hatred, yet had to keep their opinions to themselves for fear of violent retaliation. Meanwhile men faced the struggles of increasing dependence by emphasizing their own individuality while idealizing women and children(pp. 160-63).  The costs of these idealizations was to deny women part of their sexuality (p. 225), to depoliticize them as part of the politicization of public life.  At the same time men were placed in a peculiar new emotional world:  on the one hand the more \\"emotional\\" style of African-Americans seeped into evangelical religious practices.  On the other hand, crying, once an expected mark of masculine true emotion in the eighteenth century, was now seen as a sign of effeminate weakness (p. 142).  As a consequence modernity is built upon a sense of otherness that is based on racial and gender inequality. <br />A very important hypothesis, with many stimulating implications.  I would like to point out some demurrals.  Sobel's work is based on roughly two hundred dream memoirs which, while impressive, is only a fraction of the American population.  Moreover, this sample is often tilted to the minority of evangelicals and relatively small religious sects which concentrated on the production of such works.  Similar problems of proportion arises from the somewhat untypical women Sobel studies who wrote down their paths to individuality.  Much of Sobel's chapter on whites images of slaves deals with the even smaller minority of Quakers who were able to reject slavery and achieve a certain sense of empathy and maturity.  This account does not deal so much with the many whites in the North who rarely if ever saw blacks and yet relatively little qualms in supporting slavery.  Back in the sixties Orlando Patterson criticized James Baldwin in the New Left Review for failing to recognize the strong sense for many Americans that blacks are not existing, the sense of absence from their lives.  (A process, of course, encouraged by segregation.)  This deserves as much emphasis as the neurotic obsession about the other.  More could be said about the economic and social background  Still, this is an important work that clearly is deserving of more research.  One wonders how E. Roger Ekirch's upcoming history of sleep will deal with this problem.  We applaud our capacity for moral choice, yet its origins are afflicted with hatred.	2002-04-20
US	52562171	R2U82H9C0CIVPE	0679767460	959790294	Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews: A Jewish Life and the Emergence of Christianity	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Interesting	Paula Fredriksen's book starts off with pointing out the one fact we know about Jesus:  that he was crucified.  Because we know he was crucified, we also know that he was executed by the Romans, which means he had to be executed for a reason other than a theological dispute with Jesus' fellow Jews.  But none of Jesus' followers were also executed.  This would be very odd if Jesus was a genuine rebel or insurrectionist.  But if Jesus had predicted say in the last week of his life that the world faced imminent destruction, that this was the last Passover before the coming of the Kingdom, Pilate would have executed him just to remind everyone that this was not the case.  Once that was done Pilate could ignore Jesus' basically apolitical followers who, however, in the apocalyptic fervor of the events imagined that Jesus had been resurrected in spiritual form.  (This is the impression one finds in Paul's letters, while the physical details of a bodily resurrection in the Gospels appeared decades afterwards.)<br />This is not implausible, though one might think given the brutality of Roman occupation in general that Pilate would have killed several of Jesus' followers just to be on the safe side.  Fredriksen provides a useful discussion on many matters.  For a start, she points out how much more attention Josephus pays to John the Baptist than to Jesus.  She notes how the urgent apocalyptic themes in Mark, the earliest Gospel, are softened in later ones.  Mark, after all states that there are those alive today who will see the world's end, a theme tactfully underplayed in later gospels.  Fredriksen is also good on Jesus' attitude towards the law, which he was a reasonably faithful observer.  The quarrel that arises in Mark 7, for instance, is with the Pharisee minority, not Jews per se.  And Mark's claim that Jesus \\"declared all foods clean,\\" (7:19) is clearly an editorial gloss, since if Jesus had said this, the Apostles would not have quarrelled on the issue later in Acts.  She is also useful on Jewish traditions of inclusiveness towards Gentiles, allowing them to attend synagogues, speaking of their eventual redemption.<br />One problem that I do have with Fredriksen concerns her opinions about the social-economic context.  A theme of this book is that alternative portraits of Jesus as a non-apocalyptic figure who would be more ameneable to Christian sensibilities today are wrong.  And there is no good reason to believe that Jesus was a proto-feminist, and it is unlikely that he represented a hellenistic cynicism.  (Quite the contrary, Jesus' mission in Galilee is noteworthy for the way it ignores the large cities that the Romans built in the area).  And a thorough understanding of Jesus's support for the purity codes undermines the idea that his opposition to them was the basis for a political and populist challenge to the Temple orthodoxy.  <br />Yet Fredriksen goes on to argue in her notes that not only do scholars disagrees about the state of the Judaean economy, that the most likely consensus seems to view Judea and Galilee as a world with large markets, which \\"created a web of reciprocal, and usually mutally beneficial, economic relations.\\"  (286)  I find this misleading for a variety of reasons.  First off, it is anachronistic to talk of markets and and the supposedly benign effect they have today and transfer them back too millenia in an overwhelmingly rural world ruled by a brutal and despotic empire that was fundamentally based on slavery.  Second, it strikes me as naive to believe that an imperial power that would in 70 and 135 CE brutally murder and exile much or most of the population would somehow not stoop to economically exploiting them as well. Third it does not follow that because there was no \\"exploitation\\" there could be no indenpendent peasant politics, we simply do not have the sources available to make such a judgement, given the religious biases of the few literate people who wrote.  In this respect, G.E.M. De ST. Croix's The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World is more convincing.	2002-04-13
US	52562171	R18JHA3STEI4U5	0679761667	716949423	A Way in the World: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Intimations of compassion	It has been said (mostly by me) that the achievement of Kingsley Amis and Philip Larking was that they turned self-pity and whingeing into an art form.  Almost.  The contrast with V.S. Naipaul puts them in their place.  His portrait of the post colonial world is black, and it is bitter, but it is made in good faith, it contains a large portion of the truth, and it is depicted with consummate artistry.  Starting with his experiences as a very junior clerk in his native Trinidad, Naipaul's narrator notes \\"The volumes smelled of fish glue.  This was what they were bound with; and I suppose the glue was made from a boiling down of fish bones and skin and offal.  It was the colour of honey; it dried very hard, and every careless golden drip had the clarity of glass; but it never lost the smell of fish and rotteness.\\"  Note the first unappetizing sensation, how the three physical details in the next sentence shift our attention from the first fact, only to be recapitulated in the final word.  This is a special, subtle form of writing.  <br />The theme of the novel consists of several portraits of flawed men who lived and experienced Trinidad.  There is the promising English travel writer Foster Morris, who ultimately failed to achieve his full potential.  There is the radical black revolutionary Lebrun who is highly intelligent and has many acute things to say about the narrarator's writing, yet ends as an apologist for the Soviet Union and for various African tyrannies.  There is a long chapter on Sir Walter Raleigh's futile attempt to find El Dorado, with a discussion of the lies and brutalities he committed in a futilte attempt to save his neck from an ungrateful English government.  There is an even longer one on General Miranda, who attempted to free Latin America from the Spanish.  The pictures of Raleigh and especially Miranda are damning.  Miranda promises to free the slaves of Venezuela, at another time promises his English and Franco-Haitian allies he will do nothing.  He has traded slaves in the past, his career has been marked with incompetence and venality, and his political program is vague and pompous.  It is not suprisingly that when he arrives in Venezuela the priests will successfully rouse the common people against him as an infidel, that Venezuela will collapse into racial and class strife and that Miranda will be captured and die in a Spanish jail.  Finally there is the narrator's visit to a dreary one party state, marked with corruption and violence against the East Asian minority, and where an old colleague of the narrator will be murdered by powerful officials for being too effective against bribery.  There is an everpresent ugliness and bigotry.  Everywhere there is violence and cruelty:  the Spanish and the British in Miranda's Trinidad both butcher slave rebels who have their own violent customs.  In one African country a child is butchered so that a chief can be washed in its blood.  But the crushing of the chiefs by the central government is no force for progress, but merely a newer and even more unpleasant tyranny.  Yet in all these pictures there is something more than condemnation.  It is not quite compassion, not quite mercy, in the way that Naipaul agrees that there is something more, something worthy in their lives.  It appears to be the truth. <br />Is it?  Naipaul's portrait of Lebrun is based, very obviously, on C.L.R. James, the famous author of The Black Jacobins.  Yet Lebrun is at times a dishonest apologist for the Soviet Union, while the real James was very famously a Trotskyist sympathizer.  The difference is important:  it would not be fair to blames American fundamentalists for the Inquisition.  In the end of the Lebrun chapter Lebrun is unable to fully recognize his own memories.  \\"For the interviewer or the television producer it was enough, a text for today; not understanding that Lebrun's anguish had begun there, with the old coachman taking him far back, almost to the times of slavery, as to the good times.  But perhaps, too, in extreme old age, he had become a child again, looking only for peace.\\"  This is very subtle, but it is not as magnaminous as it appears.  It is less an act of justice, as an indulgence, to a character whom Naipaul has subtly manipulated for his convenience.  It reminds us of the other side of Naipaul; the spiteful comments on E.M. Forster and the ungenerous attitude towards Salman Rushdie, the critic of Indira Gandhi and Evita Peron who praised the Hindu Communalist government of India during a particularly nasty bout of intercommunal rioting, the man who is admired and praised by the Anglo-American right for condemning the Third World, less for its cruelties (so often unavoidable), but for not being English.  Is Naipaul really showing sympathy or is he just too infinitely graceful and subtle to reveal his full contempt?  Does he fear showing spontaneity, even love, because he thinks it is only really sentimentality?  Something is missing.	2002-04-11
US	52562171	R3OLN1W7J00QDE	0198207069	417437027	France: The Dark Years, 1940-1944 (Modern World)	Books	4	68	71	N	N	When Decency pierced the Darkness	Thirty years ago Robert Paxton publishes his classic book on Vichy France which demonstrated both the vigor the Petain/Laval regime sought collaboration as well as the political failure and moral horror of their policies.  At the same time Paxton also demonstrated both the widespread support Petain could count on, at least at the beginning, as well as the fact that the regime was not consistently reactionary but also had modernizing elements which the Fourth and Fifth Republics would build upon.  Now Julian Jackson has provided his account of the dark years.  What has he done to modify Paxton's account?<br />Like Jackson's two previous books on 1930s France, The Dark Years is based largely on secondary literature and memoir literature.  Notwithstanding that Jackson's account is unusually thorough.  He starts off with a discussion of the interwar years, which looks over such ingredients of Vichy as pacifism, the German threat, Action Francaise, the shock of the first world war and the Depression.  He then discusses the Vichy regime, then goes on to discuss popular opinion about the occupation.  There is then a large section on the Resistance, followed by one on the Liberation and the postwar Remembrance of the Occupation.<br />Ever since Paxton's book appeared people have commented on how the French have been unwilling to confront the shame of Vichy.  Jackson's response to this is a breath of fresh air:  \\"The problem with such comments is not only the unwarranted condescension which underlies them--the assumption that `we', the British, would have faced up to things much better in similar circumstances--but also the fact that they are so patently false....Far from being years which French historians avoid, the Vichy period is probably at present the most intensively researched in French history...\\"  <br />Jackson also points out that the historiography of Vichy was not subsumed in euphemistic darkness before Paxton came along.  More important is the emphasis on a fact that Paxton did not sufficiently emphasize.  The Germans were never popular under the occupation.  The Germans' own reports on public opinion were consistently pessimistic.  As one German professor noted in June 1941 \\"The French rejoice at the fact that British planes are attacking their cities...\\"  The National Revolution under Vichy has some support, and there were powerful quasi-fascist movements in France before the war began, but its popularity too was limited.  Petain, by contrast, was popular, at the beginning, though often this was because many people incorrectly believed he was a double game against the Germans (he was not).  The fact that Petain did not have a reputation as a Monarchist led many people to believe he was more liberal than he actually was.  The remarkable crowds which greated him a few months before liberation were, as Jackson points out, less an endorsement of him than an opportunity to show French flags after their banning under the occupation.  At the same time plans for a more modern and planned economy, greater emphasis on physical education and contempt for the defeated Third Republic would continue into the post-war years.  (Similarly, Jackson is also good at how the invaluable contribution made to the Resistance by immigrants to France was ignored and downplayed in the following years.)<br />Jackson is good at pointing out the nuances of the occupation.  He properly emphasizes the wide support many ordinary French men and women gave to persecuted Jews that was crucial to their high survival rate.  He also refutes the Vichyist argument that their \\"interference\\" accounted for the lower rate of Frenchmen involuntarily drafted to labour in Germany.  To the extent this was true, it was because of widespread resistance to the considerable efforts Vichy made to enforce German wishes.  Jackson is also good on specific individuals.  Henry de Montherlant's reaction to the occupation looks much less pleasant in retrospect.  By contrast LucienFebvre's continued publication of Annales looks more principled than has been given credit for, while Paul Claudel's praise of Petain should not lead one to ignore the fact that he was pro-British and against collaboration from the very beginning.  Jackson is also good on the resistance.  While the Allies would have liberated France without them, they made it considerable easier and they would have done more if the Allies had given them more arms.  Although the Resistance's relations with the populace were strained, \\"the peasantry's attitude toward the Maquis was one of solidarity tempered by prudence, respect tempered by apprehension.  Whether one stresses the prudence or the solidarity, there is no dobut that the Maquis could not have survived without the peasantry.\\"   If it is true that the number of resisters increased dramatically at the time immediately before liberation, this was also the time when they faced the greatest physical danger.  Perhaps the greatest virtue of Jackson's book is that it shows why glib sneers about French \\"cowardice\\" are no longer acceptable.	2002-04-06
US	52562171	R30UU4QAA1YMMQ	0684852683	514611459	Dreams Of My Russian Summers: A Novel	Books	2	16	28	N	N	Try something else	A surprisingly large number of critics have compared this novel to Proust (though my copy has a reviewer compare it to \\"Doctor Zhivago).  This can't help Makine's reputation, since it is very obvious that Makine is not in Proust's class.  One is reminded of Sartre's comment that while Valery was a bourgeois, most bourgeois are not remotely like Valery.  If Proust was a dandy, he was also infinitely more than that.  He is also an intelligent and acute observer, a man of considerable wit and one of the finest writers of love in the last century.  Makine is not really any of these.<br />The Independent claimed that \\"We inhabit [he hero's] mind more intensely than any boy's mind since Marcel's in the Rembrance of Things Past.\\"  Clearly false in my opinion, and not simply because of the counterexamples of Call it Sleep, See Under Love, or The Time of the Hero or The Street of Crocodiles.  Much of the book consists of the protagonist's obsessions with the stories related by his French grandmother about the idealized France of her youth at the beginning of the century.  The only aspect of his childhood that is particularly well conveyed is the solipsistic intensity that he holds on to these memories.  Other aspects of the child-like mind--the particularly acute observation, the intensity of new feelings, the special nature one attaches to certain objects or certain relationships--these are not well conveyed.  <br />Ok, so he's not Proust.  Surely there are other virtues?  But Dreams of My Russian Summers shows other problems.  For a start, the main focus of the novel isn't the memories of the protagonist's (who is nicknamed once as Frantsuz), but those of his grandmother.  The other relationships in his life are all curiously underplayed.  There is a certain lack of reaction to the death of his two parents, a sister wanders out of the narrative never to be seen again, there are brief mentions of sexual interests as a teenager, but there is no systematic discussion of the Frantsuz's love or sexuality.  Except for one relationship has with a fellow adolescent Frantsuz has gone through life without any deep emotional connections except to his maternal grandmother.  The contrast with Marcel or Proust is rather striking.  Moreover, when Frantsuz finally emigrates to his idealized Paris, there is surprisingly little discussion on what he actually thinks about it.<br />Much of the book deals with his grandmother's life, and it contains the natural horrors of 20th century Russia.  There is the agony of the second world war, there are a couple of specific Stalinist atrocities (Beria's raping of young women, the deportation of the dismembered from the streets of post-war Russia), naturally Frantsuz's grandfather suffers under the Purges, and his grandmother is the victim of a partiucularly unpleasant crime.  But there is something missing in this, something original.  A contrast with W.G. Sebald's Austerlitz is rather striking and to Makine's detriment, since Sebald uses a special style and has the real sense of memory and description that Makine only thinks he has.<br />There is a certain tendency to use commonplaces about the essence of Russia:  \\"an endless expanse yawning between this German city and Russia, asleep under the snows.\\" (207) \\"Russia, like a bear after a long winter, was awaking within me.  A pitiless, beautiful, absurd, unique Russia.  A Russia pitted against the rest of the world by it somber destiny.\\" (142)  \\"Russia has no limits, neither in goodness nor in evil.\\" (146) \\"...this immensity that stretches from the Black Sea to Mongolia, and which is known as the `steppe'...\\"  These are not particularly thoughtful or original comments.  (And there is a tendency to refer to Russia alone.  What about the other fourteen Soviet republics?)  We get typical touches about long suffering women and about Russian alcoholism.  We get sententious pseudo-Proustian touches (\\"Time, endowed with a grinding irony, and which, by reason of its tricks and inconsistencies, is forever reminding us of its indifferent power.\\")  There is a mildly amusing joke about how Frantsuz is unable to get his French books published in France, so he claims that his next French book is actually a translation from Russian.  The final twist in the plot is extremely unconvincing, it raises all sorts of questions (such as why did Frantsuz's relatives act the way they did?), is morally pointless and morally underdeveloped, and seems only to offer a retrospective vindication to Frantsuz's conduct towards his family.  Stalin and Brezhnev did almost infinite damage to Russian literature; but they can't be blamed for all of Makine's faults, and empty praise of him will not cure the suffering they caused.	2002-04-02
US	52562171	RZIZMRGI3RMYT	0847697223	758261953	When in the Course of Human Events: Arguing the Case for Southern Secession	Books	1	51	122	N	N	Pretty Useless	The failure of libertarianism to be more influential in American political life is a conundrum worthy of being answered.  The Libertarian Party was the fastest growing party in the United States in the late seventies and it broke the 1% barrier in 1980.  Every now and then leftists and liberals complain that their positions could do with a bit more libertarianism.  The National Review denounces the war on drugs.  \\"Everyone\\" agrees the free market should run the economy, why can't most people agree that it should run our private life as well?  One reason is inadverdently given by this book.  Most libertarians are less libertarians then fanatical idolators of the market.  They cannot understand that government is not the source of all injustices, that sometimes the state merely ratifies the evils of civil society and does not create them.  Too many libertarians believe that government supported vaccinations are worse than prostitution.  It is for those readers that Charles Adams has written this book.<br />What has Adams done?  His argument basically recapitulates the old refuted arguments of the civil war revisionists of the interwar period.  Slavery was not the cause of the war; initiquitable Northern tarriffs were.  The Northern war effort was cruel and bestial, the Northerners did not fight to abolish slavery, Reconstruction was an unjust imposition of ignorant Blacks by fanatical Northerners.  What are the sources behind this slim and poorly documented book?  Basically, Adams has looked at British periodicals, most of which were intensely hostile to the North, and quoted them with a remarkable lack of critical support.<br />The British Liberal party's indulgence of the Confederacy was clearly not its finest hour.  Nothing shows the snobbery and contempt behind the British elite's \\"realistic\\" view of democracy, was that not even Lincoln could get their sympathy.  It is a sign of their moral deafness that they could seriously argue that low tariffs outweighed the defense of slavery in their eyes.  Adams forgets that the tory periodicals were contemptuous of democracy, envious of American success and this slanted their view of Lincoln accordingly.  He quotes Dickens but is unaware of how Thomas Carlyle's evil influence encouraged his racism and his indulgence of Governor Eyre's brutal suppression of the Jamaican \\"rebellion\\" in the 1860s.  At one point Adams quotes a British journal who claims Lincoln's North was as unfree as Napoleon III's France.  This is rubbish.  Elections went like clockwork in the North, the Democratic Party mounted a strong and often vitriolitic opposition, and almost none of the Confederates were executed or even seriously imprisoned (a marked contrast to their own treatment of Nat Turner and John Brown, or to their opponents during Reconstruction.)<br />The old \\"it was really the tariff\\" argument is a knotty old chestnut, but it's nonsense.  Louisiana, with its protected sugar industry did not leave because of tariffs.  The Democratic Party did not split in 1860 over the tariff, but because it would not give the pro-slavery forces everything they asked for.  Why would Northern Democrats support an agressive war to protect high tariffs? Slavery, not tariffs, were the reasons given in the Confederate state secession conventions.  Slavery, not tariffs, was the focus of every compromise.  Slavery ideology, not concern over the tariff, is the issue identified by every major scholar of Southern ante-bellum political thought for the past half a century, whether it is Eugene Genovese, James Oakes, Manisha Sinha, William Freehling, Lacy Ford or Drew Gilpin Faust.  Adams argues that slavery was just a rhetorical device, that the South couldn't have left over slavery because Lincoln couldn't threaten slavery.  Dead wrong.  It is true that the national government could not abolish slavery in the states.  But it could make sure that slavery could never expand outside of those states, and that it could never move south towards Mexico, the Carribean or Cetnral America.  It could establish a framework for creating Republican parties in the South and encourage abolitionist movements in the South.  This would not have worked in the short term, but even these methods would never have worked in South Carolina, there was too much of a risk that they could sway enough weak slave states or create enough free states to override South Carolina's wishes by constitutional amendment.  Moreover the South would be losing its hold on the Senate, the Supreme Court and it would have to control its slaves in a country whose leader thought slavery was immoral.  Indepedent, the South could bully or buy Cuba or dissect parts of Mexico for its pleasure, while indulging its conservative and undemocratic features.  (It limited the suffrage upon secession, and it dissolved political parties.  How long would it bother with contested elections?)<br />Anyway, what kind of book talks about Northern conduct of the war but completely ignores Mark Grimsley's The Hard Hand of War.  What kind of book complains about Northern Reconstruction and ignores Eric Foner's Reconstruction?  (He does cite a couple of passages from Leon Litwack's Born in the Storm so Long, much as a neo-Nazi might quote the occasional passage in Raul Hilberg's magisterial work that shows Nazis being persecuted by Jews.)  He does not discuss James McPherson's work on the motivation of Northern soldiers.  A final comment on Northern racism:  it is true that Northern society was violently Negrophobic, and that Lincoln was slow to support abolishing slavery or granting blacks free rights.  But of course one reason why the North was so violently racist was because the South had made support of slavery the sine qua non of any \\"compromise.\\"  And the fact that Lincoln did not support full citizenship for blacks did not mean that he did not sincerely loathe their enslavement.  Among other things, Lincoln's attitude meant the difference over whetherslaves would have a husband or whether they would be raped by their masters.  Adams chatters about \\"emancipation,\\" as if the rights of blacks had to be balanced against the \\"property rights\\" of their masters.  He wishes that the Leviathan state did not have to be used to stop slavery.  Tough luck, Adams, the slaverholders made sure there would be no other choice.	2002-03-26
US	52562171	R1KBF7T1LO3VPH	0465090974	570727715	The Way We Never Were: American Families And The Nostalgia Trap	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Invaluable	It's not easy being a historian of the family.  The media has an instinctive prejudice against the understanding of any ideas which are complex and subtle.  Given the right and center right bias of much American political discourse it is hard for a liberal or socialist to get a word in edgewise.  Much of the research occurs in scholarly articles that most people never hear of and which will only be noticed if they can be dramatic or alarming.<br />So hats off to Pr. Coontz's wonderful work, which cuts through the cant of \\"family values.\\"  Coontz starts off by noticing the media's tendency to hype alarming and misleading figures.  She defuses the infamous 1986 Newsweek suggestion that women over 40 have more chance of being killed by a terrorist than of marrying for the first time.  She points out that one reason why parents may be spending 40% less time with their children since 1965 is that the number of children has dropped 28%.  The next two chapters point out some of the mythologies of family life in the fifties, and the complex relationships between liberal ideology and the status of women.  <br />Really invaluable is the next chapter, on the conservative cant of \\"self-reliance.\\"  As she points out people have always had to rely on family partnerships, godparents, mutual neighborhood aid, ethnic and labour lodges:  the Ayn Rand ideal is an utter fantasy.  She points out that the Little House on the Prairie books were written by Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter to remove all the help the family received from the community.  More important she points out how the American west and American highways, housing and suburbs have all been generously subsidized.  In 1988 federal tax subsidies for homeowners were four times as high as direct spending for low-income housing assistance.  Coontz also points out that there is precious little evidence that welfare encourages two parent family break-up:  a 1987 General Accounting Office report of more than one hundred studies found little connection.  Other studies have pointed out that \\"high-benefit states tend to have a relatively lower proportion of their children in poverty than low-benefit states\\" while mothers on AFDC have only one-fourth the number of babies while they are on welfare as those mothers who are not.  And though poverty programs in the United States were among the least generous in the OECD, they could work when they were allowed to even when the economy stagnated:  infant mortality fell in half between 1965 and 1980, a far greater reduction than in the previous 15 years.<br />Coontz provides an invaluable historical perspective on all sorts of issues, such as how the rise of a privatized family moralism coincided with the corrupt and selfish politics of the Gilded Age.  If people are upset at the rise in premarital sex, they should note that it has helped reduce prostitution, where in 19th century Savannah there was one prostitute for every 39 men.  Coontz also provides useful chapters on the complex nature of state intervention in the family, the history behind women's work, the rise of consumerism.  In comparison to these the works of Christopher Lasch, let alone the contributors to Commentary and the New Republic, appear thin and shallow.<br />Coontz helpfully points out that the teenage childbirth rate has fallen by half since 1957, though a far larger proportion occur to unmarried mothers and the teenage pregnancy rate is at least twice that of other Western countries.  She also defuses the panic about the toxic effects of day care and divorce, which are too often recklessly exaggerated.  The chapter on the black family is especially useful, although it could be updated more.  She reminds us that two parent families existed under slavery and were the norm after emancipation.  She points out the intense strains these families were placed under, not only in the post-Reconstruction South, but also under the vicious racism of the North.  (The position of blacks in antebellum Philadelphia and Boston actually worsened).  She points out how blacks bore the brunt of the deindustrializaiton and economic stagnation of the seventies.  The average real income of young black men fell 50% from 1973 to 1986.  According to the most rigorous studies if black family structures had stayed the same in 1984 as in 1973, the proportion of black children living in poverty would have fallen from 41% to 38%, instead of rising slightly to 43%.  Coontz concludes with thoughtful and useful moderate social democratic reforms which would do so much to ameliorate matters.  But of course that would mean challenging the dogmas of the right and the opportunism of the centrists who prefer to view unions, racial minorities and feminists as scapegoats for their failure to attract support.  So in the end, nothing happened.	2002-03-23
US	52562171	R17F41PRRTJ07O	0801865840	105661113	Regarding Film: Criticism and Comment (PAJ Books)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This charming man	For more than four decades Stanley Kauffmann has been the film critic for the New Republic.  Now after three decades of the reign of Martin Peretz over that journal he is that rarest of creatures, a truly non-ideological critic.  He is consistently sensible and sane, and always worthy to be read.  For those who think that Roger Ebert is too vulnerable to the slick products of Hollywood, or that the late Pauline Kael was too voluble and dogmatic, Kauffmann is always available as an alternative.<br />This collection of reviews covers 1993-2000 and is somewhat more selective than his previous books.  There is praise of Abbas Kiarostami and much enthusiasm for Emma Thompson.  Michelangelo Antonioni is given a final review, there is a touching obituary for Marcello Mastroianni, and another touching, and very brief, one for James Stewart.  Neil LaBute and Todd Solondz are praised for their ruthlessly unsentimental approach.  Pulp Fiction is treated somewhat warrily.  Forrest Gump goes completely unmentioned.  Fargo and All About my Mother get very guarded praise.  Eyes Wide Shut and The End of the Affair are subjected to special criticism.  Among foreign films Kauffmann singles out for praise Ken Loach, Gianni Amelio, Zhang Yimou, Daniel Bergman's film of his father Ingmar's autobiography, and Erick Zonca.<br />I find myself disagreeing more with Kauffmann in this collection.  I myself do not think that Amistad is a better film than Kundun.  Kundun may be excellent, it may be overly respectful, but in my view Amistad is little more than competent and worthy.  It strikes me as odd that in American Beauty Kauffmann should praise Annette Bening's acting, since the script caricatures her character as a spiteful gargoyle.  (Still, Kauffmann has the movie right:  \\"at the finish of the picture, we're left feeling that Ball has had a trial run with them:  now he needs to go back and really use them to some enlightening and organically whole purpose.\\")  At one point in his praiseof Schindler's List, he notes the scene of a child hiding in a latrine and says it is mememorable in the same way as the famous photograph of a child being marched away from the Warsaw ghetto.  I would argue that Spielberg's shot cannot be memorable as the original photo, since it is obviously been too clearly designed to resemble it.  Another weakness of the collection is that there are fewer dismissive reviews.  His criticism is actually one of his strengths, as one sees in the pans he wrote last year of Moulin Rouge and The Man Who Wasn't There.<br />Nevertheless, Kauffmann is an intelligent and literate man, and he is properly pessimistic about the future of film, as the students he tought earlier in the last decade are too impatient and spoiled to recognize the virtues of silent movies, or black and white movies or subtitled ones.  They often have no sense of history, either of the movies as an art form or of the wider society.  Kauffmann, who quotes Shaw and Graham Greene several times to good effect, is depressed but not desponsdent.  And so one should look at, among other things, a fine essay on adapting Mozart to the screen, a surprisingly undeferrential review of Touch of Evil, and a review of the European background and soil of Billy Wilder.	2002-03-16
US	52562171	R15L7KKN9C1QU4	0674006240	118271217	Making Democracy in the French Revolution (Harvard Historical Studies)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Worth a look at 3.5 stars	This is not a perfect book, and it is sometimes very dry, but it does offer something of importance.  Livesey's account looks at the ideology of republican thought during the Directory.  In doing so Livesey criticizes the \\"ideological\\" interpretation of Francois Furet.  Furet's account, of courses, emphasizes the all encompassing power of a revolutionary ideology that was inherently illiberal, anti-pluralist and ultimately totalitarian.  Livesey's account helpfully starts out with a more complex account of the evolution of revolutionary ideology.  This is very helpful since the accounts of anti-revolutionary historians tend to be rather schematic, based on a somewhat narrow range of sources (such as Keith Michael Baker), or reading in one's anti-communist views (Furet, especially in his praise of Auguste Cochin) or ones \\"anti-utopian\\" obsessions (Straussians).<br />Livesey starts out with the fate of classical republicanism as delineated by Skinner and Pocock, and its American variant as dissected by Appleby, and he discusses how its austerity was increasingly rejected as unreal.  Instead an increasingly commerical republican view was encouraged under the Directory.  It should be noted that this view was accompanied with the understanding that modern capitalism encourages privatization and inequality, and therefore modern republicanism would have to counter this.  One virtue of Livesey's account is that he concentrates on a large number of political thinkers instead of ruminating on just a few.  The Minister of the Interior Nicolas-Louis Francois de Neufchateau gets his due as a thinker, while Livesey notes the importance of the less pleasant Director, Louis Marie de La Revelliere-Lepeaux.  <br />Livesey goes on to discuss the growth of this ideology in chapters which discuss the relationship between happiness and the commerical life, the virtues of the agricultural republic, the debate over the partioning of the common lands, the educational ideas of the Directory,and plans for public spectacle and funding for the arts.  The result of these chapters is a mixed bag.  The account of the Directory and French agriculture is helped by Livesey's recognition of the fact that the French Revolution ultimately helped French agriculture.  The problem is that while this republican discourse may have encouraged small farmers to support a democratic political culture, it is not actually proven by 1799 and the links with later French republics are not made clear or evident.  It is important to note how the republican theory of education and the modern novel encouraged democratic values and political participation, but given the manifold weakness of education under the revolutionary state we still have to ask whether they did.  One must say the same about the Directorial emphasis on the independence and virtues of artists.  <br />Livesey ends his book with an interesting speculation on the Fructidor coup.  In 1797 the Directory severely undermined the constitution by purging the elected assemblies and itself of suspected Royalist supporters.  Livesey agrees with most scholars of today that the royalist threat was in retrospect exaggerated.  (Here perhaps he could have noted Stephen Patterson's arguments about royalist abuse of their opponents)  Peace with the rest of Europe would have eased tensions between the Assembly and the Directory.  The failure to make peace was not the result of the Republic's refusal to seriously negotiate it.  The problem was that France wanted to ensure a viable international commerical order wheras Britain's proposals subtly insured its own hegemony.  It is understandable why most of the Directory was opposed to this, and understandable why the Director Carnot opposed this, since France had no strategy to obtain more, except by continuing a war it ultimately could not win.  Livesey's book would be useful if it had more of these political accounts and moved beyond the intellectual debates and rather abstract definitions of what was properly commercial and modern.  So when he concludes by stating \\"The case studies of partage, the educational curriculum, and public festivals all show a consistent pattern of negotiation between the republican state and elements of civil society, whether peasants, teachers or artists...The most important effect of the new republicanism was the creation of an idea of modern life that could circulate and inform the rural dwellers of France,\\" one thinks this is an interesting and fruitful hypothesis that needs more work.	2002-03-10
US	52562171	R3KHJN82TOE50Y	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	2	22	53	N	N	The semi-official version	This slim and mediocre book will no doubt be quickly forgotten, but one should consider the \\"paradox\\" that is at the core of this book.  True irony and complexity is not Klein's style.  But facile \\"paradox\\" is, and Klein's is that Clinton was an insightful man with clear well thought out proposals for necessary reform.  At the same time, however, he was also \\"often seemed the apotheosis of his generation's alleged sins: moral relativism, the tendency to pay more attention to marketing than to substance, the solipsistic callowness.\\"  The hallmark of these vices was his morally dubious affair with Monica Lewinsky.<br />Let's just ponder this for a minute.  If Clinton is guilty of moral relativism what are we to say of his critics who condemned his adulteries but said nothing about Netanyahu's and Gingrich's (and who reserved their special venom for the ostensible victim of his acts, his wife)?  What are we to say about those who denounced Clinton as a perjurer but who praise Elliott Abrams, a self-confessed deceiver and an apologist for dictatorship and massacre, as a moral conscience for America and American Judaism?  More important what do we say about Klein?  The massacre of Sbrenicia goes unmentioned and Clinton's contemptible inaction over Rwanda is otherwise ignored.  And consider the following:  it was Klein's famous article in New York magazine in the fall of 1991 that declared Clinton to be the front-runner before a single vote had been cast.  That Klein believed Clinton shared his political opinions was, of course, crucial to this determination.  Klein would certainly not have chosen the two most liberal candidates in the race, Senator Tom Harkin, and Governor Jerry Brown.  If Clinton had not been there, who would he have chosen?  Probably Senator Bob Kerrey of Nevada.  Since then Clinton has been \\"credibly\\" accused of perjury, adultery and corruption.  Kerrey, for his part, has been all too credibly accused of murder and war crimes.  What does it say of Klein that he preferred these cheap moralists as an alternative to the dangerous, elitist radicalism of Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis?<br />Klein, in other words, is a vapid conformist who cannot tell the difference between transcending two positions and splitting the difference between them.  He confuses objectivity and open-mindedness with moving to the winning side.  Despite the scandal of the savings and loans industry, campaign finance and the Enron affair, he is a man who firmly believes that a \\"special interest\\" is one that is not represented on the editorial board of The New Republic.  (Unions, feminists, \\"minorities\\" and environmentalists, are the all purpose scapegoats for the Democratic Party's failures).  Although he ends his books with portentous comments about the shallowness of American politics, elsewhere he has praised the low turnout rate and narrow ideological specturm that ensures such vacuity.  <br />How does this affect his account?  As a \\"tough-minded\\" ex-liberal Klein enthusiastically supported welfare reform, and naturally praised Clinton's efforts in this regard.  In criticizing the \\"pathology\\" of the, often black, poor, he could posture about his toughness. And what could be a better target than a weak and despised minority?  Scholars such as Thomas Sugrue, Michael Katz and Stephanie Coontz have severely criticized the \\"culture of poverty\\" logic that underlined welfare reform, but for one as well-paid as Klein it is no doubt easier to dismiss them as politically correct rather than to refute their arguments.  By contrast, Klein could care less about the tens of millions who are uninsured and underinsured.  There was no cachet for him to be generous and helpful, and his main criticism of the Clinton health plan was that, as it was not successfully politically, it should not have been tried.  <br />This points to a common theme through his book:  its endless recitation of conventional wisdom.  The Democrats were bad to criticize Bork, Tower and Thomas, the Republicans were wrong over Whitewater and the suicide of Vince Foster.  Clinton's political strategy was flawed because it led to the 1994 Congressional defeats.  In turn, Newt Gingrich's politics were flawed because he was ultimately unsuccessful.  And of course Al Gore was flawed because he ultimately lost, while Klein blames the collapse of the Camp David process on Arafat.  <br />There is some merit in what Klein says, since even a broken clock is right twice a day.  Clinton's Employment Income Tax Credit did actually do some good and his presidency did oversee some improvement for the majority of Americans whose incomes had been stagnant or declining since 1972.  But consider the issues Clinton ignored or fumbled.  Tens of millions of people could die of AIDS over the next few decades, millions of lives could be saved with inexpensive medicines.  But the pharmaceutical industry prefers to provide viagra to the wealthy and old.  Klein uncritically accepts globalization as a good thing, despite the continued agony of Africa, the resentful stagnation of the Middle East, the South East Asia crisis, the collapse of Argentina, and the everpresent failure of market reform in Russia.  He says little about Northern Ireland, arguably Clinton's finest foreign policy achievement, and one where he broke with TNR's endless \\"anti-terrorist\\" posturing.  Klein does not mention Juanita Broadrick, either to confirm or deny, and the judicial murder of the mentally disabled Ricky Ray Rector, committed for no other purpose than to show that Clinton was tough on black criminals, gets only a bland sentence.  It is hard, in the end, to avoid the idea that Klein's denunciation of Clinton's shallowness and opportunism, arises from the partial recognition of his own.	2002-03-06
US	52562171	R2QSNPW9EAWBKO	0801486777	38802283	The Affirmative Action Empire: Nations and Nationalism in the Soviet Union, 19231939 (The Wilder House Series in Politics, History and Culture)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	An absolutely seminal work on the subject	This is a difficult book, but everyone must make the effort to read it.  It is based on dozen of archives and several pages (in tiny print) of contemporary Soviet sources.  It details a very important question.  In recent years the \\"totalitarian\\" paradigm has returned, with a vengeance, to the study of Soviet history.  And what could be a greater symbol of the \\"equivalence\\" of Stalinism and Nazism, than their mass use of ethnic cleansing?  German atrocities need no introduction.  But one can still be stunned by the brutalities involved in the acquistion of the other fourteen Soviet republics, the savage famine of 1932-33 that ravaged Ukraine and Kazhakstan, the mass deportations from the Baltic countries, and the manifold ethnic cleansing of Germans, Poles, Koreans and Chechyeans, among many others.  The vital importance of this book is that whatever one might say about these cruelties, they emerged in a context radically different from that of Nazism, they had a different logic, and in the end radically different consequences.<br />The Soviet Union was always dominated by the Soviet Communist Party.  The nominal independence of the 15 republics was an illusion until just before the end.  But the desire to encourage the national consciousness of every group within the Union, that was not an illusion, that was not a lie.  Indeed, far from being destroyed by the primordial nationality that it so viciously repressed, the Soviet Union did much to foster nationalities in the first place.  Not only did it create the 15 republics, but it created dozens upon dozens of autonomous republics and national soviets all throughout the Soviet Union.  For dozens of tribes and languages it created written scripts and then set about translating each others books into each others languages.  In every corner of the Soviet Union it sought to increase the representation of the dominant nationality in the local branch of the party.  It is often forgotten that in much of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the now dominant nationality was a minority in the cities.  Prague was once a German city.  Kiev and Minsk were dominated by Jews and Russians.  Tiblisi, the capital of Georgia, once had an Armenian majority, while many times during its history Armenia's capital had a Muslim majority.  Ensuring the demographic triumph of the dominant nationality was another Soviet policy.  <br />The origins of this eccentric and vigorously pursued policy came from Stalin and Lenin who believed that encouraging national consciousness would limit local opposition to any \\"Russian\\" movement.  Martin details the development of this policy from 1923 to 1939 where it modified in several important ways.  In 1939 the Soviet Union no longer castigated Russian chauvinism as the most pernicious of evils.  The other nationalities were expected to have some basic knowledge of Russia and its culture, and no longer would the tiniest of nationalities would be given its own soviet.  The active opposition to allowing members of other nationalities to becoming Russian was dropped.  However, the affirmative action programs would be continued, and indeed the beneficiaries would be the core of many post-Soviet regimes.<br />Martin writes important chapters on the especially complicated situation in the Far east, where the Soviet government had to deal with 99 separate nationalities.  He discusses the efforts to encourage Ukrainization in Ukraine.  Much to their disappointment, and contrary to what one might expect from Ukrainian nationalist historigoraphy, their support for a unilingual Ukrainian culture in the cities met with very limited success.  The people there actually preferred a bilingual Russian-Ukrainian culture.  Martin also provides a subtle account of the 1932-33 famine.  This was not a famine designed against the Ukraine, but against grain \\"surplus\\" regions.  However, a deadly \\"national interpretation\\" of the famine developed in Soviet ideology as the famine progressed.  Martin is also useful on the Great purges later in the decades.  Contrary to what one might think, nationalities like Ukrainians and Jews were not overrepresented.  The one that were consisted of the \\"diasopora\\" ones, such as Poles, Germans, Koreans and other bordering countries that might be potential threats.<br />Finally there is the chapter on ethnic cleansing.  Martin reminds us of the ideological and security origins of the cleansing.  In certain situations even Russians could find themselves ethnically cleansed (such as former Russian workers on the Manchurian railroads).  He reminds us of the broader context of ethnic cleansing, such as the extermination of the Armenians, the mass deportations following the Balkan Wars and the Greek-Turkish war, and the wartime deporation of 800,000 Jews from the Russian Front.  He also reminds us of the local ethnic and popular hatreds that would have existed regardless of the Soviet Union's existence, such as in Kazhakstan and the North Caucasus.  He also reminds us that the Soviet leadership understandly wanted to encourage ethnic concentration in order to form more viable national units.  In the end most nationalities have claimed to be specially victimized by the former Soviet Union.  And while this is true for some groups, like the Chechens, it should be remembered that for the Russians, Ukrainians, Jews, Georgians, Kazhaks, and many other groups, the Soviet Union was not the prisonhouse of nations.  It did not kill countries, only people.	2002-03-05
US	52562171	R21VHAJZQRBEXQ	1560253657	781976363	Left in the Dark: Film Reviews and Essays 1988-2001 (Nation Books)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Cool	For most of the past fourteen years Stuart Klawans has been the intelligent and amusing film critic for The Nation.  Four years ago he wrote a column in which he joked that no-one would publish his book because he had not reviewed Titanic.  Well, now we have the first collection of his film criticism.  It is by turns sensible, sensitive, thoughtful, humane, very funny, cosmopolitan and internationalist in the best sense, and determinedly anti-parochial.<br />There is still no review of Titanic, a movie that can never be eviscerated enough.  And Klawans did not include his review of Jurassic Park, with the unforgettable line \\"I think Theodor Adorno once reviewed this moview, around the time Steven Spielberg was born.\\"  But we do get his review of Jurassic Park:  the Lost World\\" where Klawans suggests that it is best interpreted as a sequel to Schindler's List, since otherwise it would just be garbage.  This review also shows his character of Rabbi Simcha Fefefferman, who is used to good effect in his reviews of The Last Temptation of Christ, and his properly indignant critique of Natural Born Killers.<BR>  <BR>So what does Klawans like?  He is a firm advocate of foreign movies and does yeoman work in trying to get a complacent American media to appreciate the work of Abbas Kiarostami.  There is a fine review of Time Regained, a film criminally under-released in the United States (and Canada as well).  Klawans also provides thoughtful appreciations of Renoir, Godard, Welles as well as documentaries by Frederick Wiseman and a critical appreciation of the best films from Italy, Japan and France.  This may make Klawasn appear highbrow, and he is.  But like his colleague J. Hoberman he is more than willing to give popular culture its due.  If there is nothing here like Hoberman's essays on the Honeymooners and Krazy Kat, we do get his praise of Magnolia and Ed Wood, as well as six reasons why you should watch Star Trek episodes for the 17th time rather than see The Accidental Tourist.  <br />Among his other likes among recent films are Rushmore, Election, Topsy Turvey and Unforgiven, while he is quite cool towards Gladiator and Shakespeare in Love.  It's unfortunate we don't get his praise of Matilda or Felicia's Journey or South Park, Bigger, Longer and Uncut.  It's also unfortunate we don't get his pans of Dark City, Contact and his one sentence polemic on Das Boot (\\"`Nazi sailors were just regular guys!'\\")  There are other one-liners one misses:  (\\"Bram Stoker's Dracula is hardly that [a flawless movie], but who cares? It's not as if we were talking about George Eliot's Middlemarch.\\") and we don't get his acerbic critique of Michael Medved's Hollywood against America.  <br />No-one should agree with everything here.  There is Klawans' enthusiastic praise of Carrie 2 as an empowering feminist drama, when many people think such praise only plays into the hands of Stephen King and Brian De Palma.  And I am inclined to believe that Moulin Rouge is suffocated by its own cheap irony about an hour and a half before Klawans does.  On the other hand there is Klawans' praise of A.I., an underappreciated movie certainly much better than too many of the movies considered for best picture.  Klawans is clever enough to argue that this movie is a parable of Spielberg's own intellectual failure to move beyond the visceral and the sentimental.  It has been said (largely by me) that there are two kinds of movie critics:  those who like the movies that win best picture and those that are worth reading.  This book clearly shows that Klawans falls into the second category.	2002-03-03
US	52562171	RA9AY6V7R1IE1	0679761047	987818425	Snow Country	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Heart of Decadence	Yasunaki Kawabata was the first Japanese novelist to win the Nobel Prize for literature.  He is not as good a novelist as his contemporary Juchiro Tanizaki or his predecessor Natsume Soseki (1867-1916).  He was a extreme right-winger who committed suicide, not unlike his protege Mishima.  His most famous work, the House of Sleeping Beauties, deal with an old impotent man who is introduced to a special sort of brothel filled with beautiful, drugged sleeping women.  (Oddly enough, elements of this novel later appeared in a pornographic movie of the early nineties with the same name).<br />Snow Country is an interesting novel.  The protagonist Shimamura is a married man and a dilettante, who has become an expert on the European ballet without actually ever seeing one.  On a visit to the Snow Country he meets two beautiful young women; one is Yoko whom he sees on a train, the other is a geisha named Komako.  He and Komako start on a relationship which both know will only last a few months.  And so they do.  Shimamura shows little passion, shows something more but not much more than polite concern, though he obviously sleeps with her.  Komako clearly shows something different (\\"She walked ahead of him [to the bath] with her eyes on the floor, like a criminal being led away.  As the bath warmed her, however, she became strangely gay and winsome, and sleep was out of the question.)<br />It is this deliberately ephemeral relationship which attracts Kawabata's interest, and it attracts ours.  It is written in a typically austere and severe style, concentrating on a hypostatized Nature which does not relish in gross physical detail.  Consider this description of a teakettle:  \\"skillfully inlaid in silver with flowers and birds, and from it came the sound of wind in the pines.  He could make out two pine breezes, as a matter of fact, a near one and a far one.  Just beyond the far breeze he heard faintly the tinkling of a bell.\\"  This makes those details which do appear particularly striking:  \\"Insects smaller than moths gathered on the thick white powder at her neck.  Some of them died there as Shimamura watched.\\"  The novel ends with an image of nature.  During a climatic fire Shimamura falls and sees the Milky May in the sky above him.<br />What is interesting in this novel is how Kawabata combines the tropes of classical Japanese literature, such as the aforementioned terseness and emphasis on an abstracted Nature, with a more modern interest in individual character.  Obviously there is a gap between the Japanese and European right on the propriety of having mistresses, but in Kawabata there is no clear moral alternative mentioned to Shimamura's ultimately loveless behavior.  Although Kawabata mentions the ideals of rural Japan existing the same time with time of modern tourism, this book does not obviously present an organic conservative ideal.  The dialogue is terse, often unemotional.  Like Jane Austen, it is a romance of pleasure, some desire, but little yearning and limited tenderness.  As a portrait of cool if not cold lovelessness it is worthy of our attention.	2002-02-21
US	52562171	R2OLDPL7HA5EJN	1860460194	687199193	Life and Fate	Books	3	88	124	N	N	A dissent	Suppressed in the early sixties, translated into English in the mid-eighties, and published under Gorbachev's rule, Vasily Grossman's Life and Fate is the most famous Russian novel of the Second World war.  Historians such as Richard Overy, Catherine Merridale and Robert Conquest have praised it for its realistic account of Soviet life and its courage in Stalinism.  Reviewers from Italy to France to Britain praised Grossman and compared him to Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy.<br />Now as Christopher Hitchens once pointed out, to be even compared to Tolstoy is no small achievement, so saying that Grossman does not meet this standard is hardly a damning criticism.  Grossman, during the war a prominent journalist and later a novelists, was understandably horrified at the infinite cruelties and callousness of the Stalinist regime.  That he is unsparing of the interrogations, the deportations, the tortures, the bureaucratic spite and viciousness, the way that political correctness encouraged cowardice and despair does credit to his courage. But courage is not enough, and one should beware those who believe it is a substitute for art.   To say, as George Steiner, that Solzhenitsyn and Grossman \\"eclipse almost all that passes for serious fiction in the West today,\\" is unfair.  These subjects are powerful and moving is true, but beside the point.  How could such they not be?  Grossman must do more, and ultimately he does not do it.<br />Grossman suffers the vices of a journalist.  His writing resembles romantic magazine cliches (\\"His love for Marya Ivanova was the deepest truth of his soul.  How could it have given birth to so many lies?)  The sententious title, all too reminiscent of War and Peace, does not help.  Passages are suffused with rhetoric (\\"No, whatever life holds in store...they will live as human beings and die as human beings, the same as those who have already perished; and in this alone lies man's eternal and bitter victory over all the grandiose and inhuman forcesthat every have been or will be.\\") and the comments about freedom are particularly hollow.  (\\"Does man lose his innate yearning for freedom?\\"  \\"Man's innate yearning for freedom can be suppressed but never destroyed.\\")  Behind the suppressed liberal, a middlebrow is waiting to come out.<br />Grossman writes at one point of how in totalitarian countries a small minority is able to bully or brainwash the rest of the country.  This point has two flaws:  it is a simplistic description of how modern terror works and Grossman does not bring it aesthetically to life.  True, there are some stirring passages as the protagonist Viktor Shtrum finds all his colleagues at the scientific institute he works with drop away from him once he is criticized for supporting modern physics.  But Grossman cannot portray the mind of an Anti-Semite or a Stalinist torturer.  This failure is particularly damaging when one considers that Russian literature has no shortage of profound portraits of this sort of corrupt mindset (Dostoyevsky, Gogol, Saltykov-Shchedrin, Chekhov, Tolstoy, even Nabokov's Humbert Humbert).  While it is true that Hitler was not the product of a primordial German anti-semitism, Grossman's picture of the Holocaust where almost none of the perpetrators are actually anti-Semites, just cogs in an automatic system, is seriously misleading.  (One thinks of Omer Bartov's Hitler's Army in contrast).   <br />Stalinism per se seems to be a caste separate from the population.  This is misleading because it does not deal sufficiently with the internalization of Stalinism among the Soviet population.  Viktor Shtrum seems surprisingly calm and composed towards the Germans who murdered his mother because she was a Jew.  What is really odd is that most of the rest of the Soviet characters feel the same way.  On both sides there is stoicism, a sense of comradely duty, thoughts about loved ones.  There is not on the German side violent racist loathing towards the enemy.  Likewise, thereis surprisingly little rage, indignation, heartbroken grief and anger or lust for vengeance on the Russian side, though God knows there was no lack of provocation from the Germans.  It would have been very easy, indeed one would think it unavoidable, to show reasonably decent Russians consumed with rage against the Germans.  But that would complicate Grossman's picture of evil flowing down from a totalitarian state.  It also says something that the Communists never win an argument in this book.  (When a Russian prisoner of Tolstoyan pacifist opinions speaks of redeeming the world with acts of spontaneous kindness, no one actually points out that a lot more is needed to stop the Nazis.)  <br />A comparison to Aharon Appelfeld's novels, or Gunter Grass's The Danzig Trilogy, or This way to the Gas Ladies and Gentlemen, shows Grossman's weakness as a writer of character. He assumes that most people are like himself.  (Consider the failure in his portraits of Hitler and Stalin). And so there are endless scenes of people thinking about their loved ones, because Grossman cannot provide much more.  They are endless scenes of women portrayed as the objects of men's affections, rarely as subjects, and certainly without the depth of other writers.  (One notices that in Stalingrad the German soldiers have love affairs with Russian girls.  They do not rape them).  Strikingly, Grossman's characters are overwhelmingly Russian.  Although the Soviet Union was a multinational state, other nationalities are usually only mentioned as reminders of Soviet persecution.  In the end one is reminded that whereas Dostoyevsky could convince a reader that it is just and humane for Dimitri Karamazov to suffer the punishment for a murder that was actually committed by someone else, Vasily Grossman is unable to bring many of his liberal good wishes to life.	2002-02-16
US	52562171	R35C85RG2IFGMV	0670894516	991618614	The Changing Faces of Jesus	Books	5	42	56	N	N	The best account of the historical Jesus	For the past two centuries historicans and scholars have been trying to find the real Jesus behind the Gospels.  It is a commonplace that they have  found their own assumptions and prejudices.  Orthodox Christians find, naturally enough, the Christ of Orthodoxy.  19th century moderate liberals find a moderate liberal Christ.  Slightly more left-wing twentieth century scholars find a slightly more revolutionary Jesus.  This book by Jewish scholar Geza Vermes is a summary of three books he wrote connecting Jesus to the Judaism of his day.  This account is an admirable summary; it is well written, clearly and thoughtfully presented.  Not only does it provide a convincing account of the real Jesus, but it shows a convincing reason why Christian orthodoxy is wrong.  The way that it does so is ingenious; by using orthodoxy's own sources.<br />The main problem for the historical analysis of Jesus is the limited number of sources.  We are basically confined to the Testament; independent evidence (Josephus) tells us littlle more that he existed and was a religious leader killed by the Romans.   Christian apologetics naturally emphasize the fact that several hundred people were convinced that Jesus had risen from the dead.  They do not consider  the 99% of people in Palestine who did not share  this high opinion and who did not feel the need to write anything down to refute it.  But aren't we apparently stuck with the New Testament?<br />As it happens, we are not.  Vermes' procedure is to look through the Bible and unpeel the various accretions of Christian dogma like an onion's layers.  First we look at the gospel of John, the gospel which most clearly states that the individual Jesus was in fact God.  We then go through the letters of Paul, then the Acts of the Apostles and the synoptic gospels of Mark, Matthew and Luke.  Then we get Vermes'  own description of the real Jesus.   Vermes' previous books emphasized the Jewishness of Jesus.  This point should be clarified.  Obviously Jesus grew up in the context of first century Judaism.  For nineteen centuries Christianity has claimed that Jesus was the fulfillment of Judaism.  Vermes means something quite different.  Nietzsche once said that the only real Christian died on the cross.  What  Vermes says is that when Jesus died, he died as a Jew.  He was similar to other exorcists and healers of the time, the main distinction being that he was unusually eloquent.  He lived in the rural world of Galillee, which was not as literate or sophisticated as Jerusalem, and the gospels do not even mention the cities of Galilee.  He believed in the imminent end of the world, but he was not a political revolutionary.  His execution was an accident, the consequence of paranoid officials overreacting to Jesus' scourging of  the temple.<br />Vermes is excellent at supplementing the New Testametnt with information about first century Judaism.  He is useful in explaining the practices of first century Jewish holy men.  He helpfully distinguishes Christian from Essenes.  Most helpfully he reminds us that the uses of \\"Lord\\" , \\"The Messiah\\", \\"Son of Man,\\" and \\"Son of God,\\"  had very clear and distinct meanings in their first century context.  To be precise, the four terms are not synonomous, and they are not synonomous with the Christian concept of God.  Most important, the term \\"son of God,\\" as it is used in first century Judaism and in the synpotic gospels does not mean the Christian concept of sonship.  <br />With that in mind it becomes increasingly clear that the synoptic gospels, those sources that are closest to the actual Jesus, subtly undermine the Christian doctrine of Jesus.  The gospels do invoke the idea that Jesus is the fulfillment of Jewish prophecy.   Indeed, Vermes is very good on the development of the virign birth.   Early editions of Matthew emphasize Jesus's Davidic descent, and indeed state or strongly imply that Joseph was his father.  By the time we get to Luke we have the idea thatJesus was miraculously conceived, based on the famous mistranslation of Isaiah 7:14 where \\"a young women shall conceive\\" was wrongly read to say \\"a young virgin shall conceive.\\"    The early gospels are strongly contradictory on whether Jesus was to save all humanity:  \\"I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,\\" (Matt 15:24)  \\"Go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the House of Israel.\\"  (Matt 10:6).  Other passages clearly counter the doctrine of the Trinity, shared by all of the most important Christian denominations.  \\"But of that day and that hour [of the coming of the Kingdom]  no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the son, but only the Father.\\"  (Mark 13:32; Matt 24:36)  \\"The head of every man is Christ, the head of a woman is her husband, and the head of Christ is God.\\"  (1 Corinthians 11:3).  Paul and thecharacters of the Acts of the Apostles pray through Christ to God, and not yet to Christ.    Jesus clearly shows his Jewish Orthodoxy:  \\"Till heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law' (Matt 5:18; cf Luke 16:17)   This passage, Vermes notes, must be from the real Jesus, since it is so clearly contradictory to the Christianity of the Gentile Church.   The Accounts of the Resurrection are contradictory, with the account in the earliest versions of Mark, the earliest gospel, abruptly ending without anyone actually seeing the ressurrected Jesus.  Although Vermes praises Jesus' own eloquence and generosity, it is hard to believe Jesus  as one's personal saviour.  From the best evidence of this book, he did not believe it himself.	2002-02-11
US	52562171	R1AH1DSZB868W3	0807849030	659399011	From the Barrel of a Gun: The United States and the War against Zimbabwe, 1965-1980	Books	3	16	29	N	N	Not good enough	This book detailing the liberation struggle has an unusual structure.  It starts off with a chapter \\"Toward Zimbabwe,\\" which raises three of Horne's themes in this book:  racism, anti-communism, and the problem of \\"whiteness.\\"  It is often repetitive and padded and is the least interesting chapter in this book. The next chapter looks at the links between the Rhodesian government and its supporters in the United States.  The third chapter looks at the ideological support of the white minority regime, concentrating on missionaries, anti-communist supporters and sexual violence.  The fourth actually offers a summary of American diplomacy towards Rhodesia from the Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965 to Zimbabwe's independence.  The fifth looks at business relations with the white minority regime.  The sixth looks at the mercenary scum that came mostly from the United States to ravage Rhodesia and the indulgence they received from the American government.  The seventh looks at links between African-Americans and the liberation struggle.  The conclusion looks at modern Zimbabwe and the often pernicious effect Rhodesian mercenaries have had, mostly on South Africa.<br />Horne, of course, is thoroughly in favour of the liberation struggle and is properly angry towards those who obstructed and delayed independence.  Yet this is a mixed book.  One point to start off with is that Horne is affiliated with the Communist Party of the United States of America.  Even by the standards of world communist party leaderships, the American party is notorious for its dogmatic, simple-minded, philistine and uncritical attitude.  Many intelligent and thoughtful people have joined the American Communist Party and the vast majority have left (or been expelled from) it in disgust at its dishonesty.  Horne, a rather prolific scholar, is one of the very, very few who remain.<br />What makes this issue important is that Horne is less than frank on a number of important issues.  The CPUSA, of course, supported the Soviet Union and they, in turn, supported the ZAPU movement headed by Joseph Nkomo.  By contrast the first elections were won by ZANU, led by Robert Mugabe, which had support from China and Tanzania.  On the one hand Horne writes that ZAPU was more authentically non-tribalist, in contrast to ZANU, which was also affected by African-American middle class nationalist ideas. (There is little research provided about Zimbabwean politics which would allow the reader to decide the issue one way or another).  On the other hand, Horne writes sympathetically of Mugabe's government, and certainly does not provide a refutation of those, like R.W.Johnson, who have vociferiously criticized it for its authoritarianism and violence.  There is also a passage in which Horne writes about possibility of homosexuality among Rhodesian mercenaries.  The passage has a disingenous quality and certainly does not go far enough to castigate Mugabe's demagogic homophobia and massive failure in confronting the AIDS Crisis (In a footnote, Horne writes of Zimbabwean support for a book which suggests that AIDS is the result of a South African germ warfare program, without clearly stating that such views are nonsense.)<br />Having said that the book has some virtues.  Too much is made perhaps of the letter writers to prominent Southern senators, but their racist, anti-communist, and occasionally anti-semitic tone has a certain rebarbative quality.  Surprisingly little is written about Kissinger's transition to a pseduo-majority rule, though the Nixon administration has tried to keep its records as obscure as possible.  There are plently of amusing information about the supporters of the repulsive Salisbury regime, as prominent William F. Buckley, Milton Friedman, Robert Dornan and Jesse Helms mix shoulders with racists, the John Birch Society and the Liberty Lobby, while Richard Burton and Percy Sledge make idiots of themselves as tourists.  It is rather horrifying to learn that Bayard Rustin, one of the heroes of the civil rights struggle, pacifist and homosexual, was so poisoned by anti-communist hatred that he gave his moral support to the farcical 1979 elections in which Smith tried to buck up his regime with a few pathetic Black puppets.  It is alarming to think that so many American senators were willing to give this regime the benefit of the doubt, and that it took Jimmy Carter, Margaret Thatcher and Churchill's son in law to point out basic reality.  While the chapters on business and mercenaries would undoubtedly have benefited from more systematic research (as Horne himself admits) there is much information about sanctions busting and the pathology of mercenary life.  Horne is not able to provide much more than insinuations over whether the American government supported these mercenaries, but they were important, they did prolong the war, and it was alarmingly easy for the scum of the earth to cross the Atlantic.  Considering that it was the official view of the United Nations and the United States that Rhodesia will still a part of the United Kingdom and the Salisbury regime in illegal rebellion against it, the government did give these people a surprisingly easy time (certainly more so than those who protested the Vietnam war and went into exile so as not to serve in it).  Not a bad portait of a qualid episode of seventies diplomacy, but not good enough.	2002-02-02
US	52562171	R3BMD3AX1LI3OZ	0773522727	759414473	Spreading Misandry: The Teaching of Contempt for Men in Popular Culture	Books	1	76	251	N	N	Are men victims?	This book has a simple thesis.  Over the past decade popular culture has shown hatred towards men, or misandry.  An ideological, essentialist, separatist feminism has had remarkable success in denouncing men and masculinity, dehumanizing them and ultimately demonizing them.  Nathanson and Young are very worried about these trends:  \\"Popular culture both mediated and fostered the teaching of contempt for men.  This was now the Establishment.\\"  This thesis is thoroughly flawed at every conceivable level.  Essentially the book consists of potted movie reviews, combined with crude and tendentious interpretation.  <br />But let us consider the problems with misandry as a concept.  Most anti-semites are gentiles.  Most misogynists are men.  But most of the directors and scriptwriters accused of spreading misandrist ideology are not women.  I am aware of the concept of self-hatred, and it has been used (often very crudely) against non-Zionist Jews and less than militant African-Americans.  What Nathanson and Young ask us to believe, however, is that when Jay Leno jokes \\"You know how you can tell when pigs are drunk?  They start acting like men,\\" he is displaying the kind of sycophancy and abasement one associates with centuries of repression and slavery.  We are asked to believe that these self-hating men include Martin Scorsese (for Cape Fear) and Ridley Scott (for Thelma and Louise).  How, one may ask, does one reconcile this self-hatred on Scott's part with the masculine virtues of Gladiator (or the more recent Black Hawk Down)?  If Nathanson and Young were merely arguing that there were misandric elements in popular culture their failure to discuss the many non-misandric and outright misogynist elements would not be so problematic.  But as they say misandry has become the establishment, one must ask how this could have occurred when men make up the majority of every conceivable elite in North American society.  How could misandry have flourished at the same time as pornography has boomed and become more explicit?  Considering that Nathanson and Scott look at only a very few feminists one might ask how an eccentric theologian like Mary Daly and an abusive vitriolic polemicist like Andrea Dworkin could wrap Hollywood around their fingers?  <br />So much for basic principles.  As it turns out Nathanson and Scott are numbingly tendentious in their arguments and analysis.  Home Improvement is considered an attack on men.  But this obviously confuses an attack on a variety of masculinity with men in general.  Nathanson and Scott's approach is that a work is misandric if all the men are bad and all the women are good. But clearly this is flawed.  Consider the fifties sitcom \\"The Honeymooners.\\"  As every viewer knows the wife is considerable more sensible and thoughtful than her blustering husband.  Does this make it man-hating?  What about Vertigo, Forutnata and Jacinta or The Secret Agent?  Emma Bovary is clearly superior to her two lovers, her ineffetive husband and the loathsome M. Homais.  Teresa Durbeyfield Clare is much more deserving of our sympathy than her father, her seducer or her husband.  Are we to conclude that Flaubert and Hardy are misandrist radical feminist ideologues?  <br />More problems.  At one point the authors suggest that wishing to be separate from men is man-hating.  Before conservatives rush to ratify this argument, they should realize that this would imply that much male sociability, priestly celibacy and the male dominted worlds of the army and the Straussian conference are inherently misogynist.  In criticizing the Simpsons, the authors state \\"Bart is, to be charitable, a fool.\\"  Actually although he is lazy and foolish, he is also sly, witty and on occasion very inventive and resourceful.  Deceived, the 1991 Goldie Hawn vehicle, must be man-hating because the only male character is the villain.  In spending seven pages on the 1990 movie He Said, She Said (!), the authors argue the movie is man-hating because it supports monogamy.  In spending 10 pages on Mr and Mrs. Bridge, the authors assert that it is act like racism or anti-semitism to suggest that marriages are sometimes hampered by unimiginative husbands.  One could go on about their tendentious interpretations (my favorite, the fact that the community the battered wife escapes to in Sleeping with the Enemy is so much nicer than her old one is a clear sign of Goddess Worship).  The penultimate chapter is unforgiveably shoddy.  In order to confute feminism with racism, Communism and Nazism, they discuss the concept of ideology in which only those four are discussed.  That most scholars use the term \\"ideology\\" as a neutral description for any coherent system of political thought is conveniently ignored.  In discussing feminist ideology they only (briefly) discuss the unrepresentative feminists mentioned above, and insinuate that feminists all believe the same thing.  Stating that feminism is the product of Marxist Enlightenment and a romantic essentialism is ridiculously crude.  (What happened to Wolstonecraft, Condorcet or John Stuart Mill?)  The authors call feminists \\"collectivist,\\" but when conservatives criticize their views on abortion, they ususally state that they are unforgiveably selfish.  No reconiciliation of these arguments is made and it is at this point one loses all patience with this book.	2002-01-27
US	52562171	R1J3RWGQUNIWOB	0192854496	279569564	The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft	Books	4	30	41	N	N	The shocking truth about witchcraft...	...is that there is much less to it than meets the eye.  This book is a brilliant scholarly study by a fine professional historian.  This is important because much of the attraction of witchcraft or paganism, both to its adherents and to the wider society as a whole is that it appeals to deep intutions and fears about history and the past.  Whatever happened to the pre-Christian religions of Europe?  Are there people who consciously worship the Devil?  Is there a continuous history of pagan religion that has lasted to the present day?  What were the deep roots behind the savagery of the witch trials?  <br />It is one of the invaluable merits of this book that Hutton answers these questions, which are, respectively, it died out, no, no, and not misogyny.  Hutton shows considerable sympathy to the modern witches and pagans.  Without them, after all he would not have been able to write this book.  Yet Hutton is quite thorough that their main belief, that they are reviving a pre-Christian past that in some way or another is superior to Christianity and to our modern society, is false.  \\"...the unique significance of pagan witchcraft to history is that it is the only religion which England has ever given the world.\\" <br />Some historical context is needed, and Hutton provides it throughout the book.  In the 1920s Margaret Murray came out with the thesis that the witchcraft trials of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were actually directed against a real religion, an organized Pagan religion which was the common religion of Europe that underlay a superficial Christianity.  Associated with this view and slowly developing later was that the witchcraft trials were savagely misogynist attacks against women.  This view has been the backbone of pagan propaganda for decades and it is only now changing because it is increasingly clear that it is untrue in every major respect.  To argue that there were really witch ceremonies, Murray deliberately excluded all the supernatural elements in the trial testimony, making it look more sober and rational (and non-coerced by torture) than it really was.  Contrary to myth, 9 million women were not burned, but only 50,000 people in total.  A majority were women (though in some areas of Europe most were men), but contrary to myth, midwives were not specifically singled out (indeed they helped to look for suspects), and many of the poor isolated people accused were themselves denounced by women. The idea that people were only superficially Christian is clearly inaccurate as scholars such as Christopher Haigh and Eamon Duffy have shown the strength of Roman Catholicism before the Reformation and its hegemony (scholars have also shown that the oral-literate distinction has been much overstated in modern England.)  Hutton is quite good on how folklorists saw customs that clearly developed in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries to be pagan revivials. He points out how the distinguished archaeologist of the Baltic, Marija Gimbutas, became so obsessed with the idea of a Pan-European Goddess religion that she ignored that the supposedly \\"Goddess\\" English superhenges were actually a thousand years later than the supposedly  \\"patriarchal\\" Irish Linkardsdtown cists that supposedly replaced them.  <br />But Hutton is more than a debunker.  The first half of the book goes into detail about the wider cultural influences that encouraged a revival of Paganism in 19th and 20th century Britain.  He discusses as part of the decline of Anglicanism how even rather stalwart figures like Kipling and H. Rider Haggard looked to something more exotic.  He discusses the enthusiasm for Pan and the belief in a primoridal Goddess.  There is a very useful chapter on the origins of freemasonry, which should be read by all those who believe the myth that Jack the Ripper was somehow involved with the Prince of Wales.  He also provides a chapter on cunning magic and low magic (were cunning men and white magic representatives of a pagan religion.  Short answer:  No.  In fact they were just as religious (or no more religious)as the wider society.<br />This covers the first half of the book, and the second half covers the second half as an actual neo-pagan religion developed.  Although many witches and pagans today emphasize their feminism and environmentalism, leading pagans like Aleister Crowley and Gerald Gardner were actually tories.  (The one truly unforgiveable thing about Crowley in fact was his anti-semitism.)  Although Hutton shows commendable patience and tolerance with his informants he does show that there is no evidence of a continous pagan religion.  Indeed, there is little reliable evidence that any witches can date back their practices before the second world war.  Gibbon once wickedly commented that one reason that Romans believed that Christians were guilty of preposterous crimes like incest and cannibalism was because Christian sects so often flung such accusations at each other.  Hutton notes the same problems about modern witches, though he clearly points out that there is no evidence they were guilty of anything (promiscuity isn't even mandatory!) criminal.  He is also properly sympathetic to those who were foully libelled and their lives damaged by irresponsible and malicious press campaigns.<br />One interesting point that Hutton does not fully emphasize is that both the interest in paganism and the paranoid fear of Satanism is both the product of the decline of Christianity.  After all, before the Enlightenment Christians did not fear an organized conspiracy of Satanists.  Either they feared other Christians (Protestants vs. Catholic vs. Orthodox) or they feared Islam.  More could be said also about neo-paganism and the one really existing pre-Christian religion, Judaism.  But otherwise this is a fascinating book and in the end Hutton points out that modern witchcraft is not a sect or a cult or a New Age Movement or a nature religion.  Personally, I think we would all be better off reading Adorno.	2002-01-27
US	52562171	R1NXRCA1111EQI	0452282616	420421531	A World Full of Gods: The Strange Triumph of Christianity	Books	4	28	30	N	N	An eccentric exercise in "popular" history	Keith Hopkins is an internationally respected classicist who decided that he would do something different for his book on pagan religiousity the rise of Christianity.  He would go out of his way to make his book more accessible to a popular audience and at the same time adapt some postmodern elements.  So in his first chapter he introduces two time travellers who visit pre-Vesuvius Pompei who make them some properly footnoted comments on the culture and lifestyle of the region.  Later they go to Egypt, look at the temples, the man seeks a love spell directed at the woman who isn't talking to him, then he is unfairly arrested and barely escapes before being tortured.  At other points Hopkins has a TV interview of an aged Jewish sectarian, and later has an imaginary conversation between a Christian and his pagan colleagues.  At the same time there are (fictional?) letters from other scholars which criticize Hopkins' prejudices.<br />The result is certainly interesting.  We certainly get a sense of the public, vigorous and somewhat misogynist sexuality of the Romans.  The account of the ascetiscism of the Dead Sea Scrolls Sect is certainly interesting.  Hopkins' discussion of Christianity emphasizes the potential alternatives to the central doctrines that became Roman Catholicism and Orthodox Christianity.  He then goes into considerable details about the world-views of Manicheanism and Gnosticism, with its own elaborate geneologies and cosmologies.  Hopkins also emphasizes the strong tendencies towards acesticism within Christianity.  \\"It is ideal that we should feel no desire,\\" says one Christian intellectual.  Hopkins goes into considerable detail about the Acts of Thomas, with its miracles and its emphasis on newly converted Christian wives refusing their pagan husbands.  The book also benefits from plates of thirty illustrations which are well chosen.  One important fact that Hopkins properly reminds us is that the early Church did not emphasize the Gospels. (\\"Itseems amazing now that the New Testament was not recognized as a single set of privileged Christian scriptures before the end of the second century.\\")  Their major polemical tool was trying to find prophecies of Jesus in the Old Testament.  (The most famous of these is the classic mistranslation of Isaiah, in which the Hebrew, \\"A young woman shall conceive,\\" was mangled into the Greek \\"A virgin shall conceive.\\")  And so we get fascinating details about the topes of Christian martyrdom literture, about brother-sister marriages in Egypt, and pagan accusations of ritual murder against Christians.<br />At the same time one might want something more.  The book is well researched but the contrast with Robin Lane Fox's Pagans and Christians is striking.  There Lane Fox patiently sifted through the whole range of somewhat scarce evidence to give a picture of surprising Pagan vitality on the eve of Constantine's conversion.  By contrast Hopkins account is somewhat sketchier.  Hopkins gives the most recent figures on the growth of Christianity, with perhaps 0.3% of the population of the Empire around 200 and maybe 10% by 300.  But the reasons for this growth are not given in much detail.  Hopkins suggests that Christianity offered a sense of community and structure (especially in charity) that allowed it to grow until Constantine's patronage ensured its triumph.  It is not clear, however, from Hopkins' account, why only Christianity possessed these traits that allowed it to grow and why the Roman elite would look upon it as a new state religion.  One wonders whether the emphasis on Gnosticism and Manicheanism really represent their importance at the time, though given the lack of evidence it is not surprising that Hopkins cannot tell us more.  All in all, this is an interesting, somewhat eccentric book, which could use more sociology.	2002-01-20
US	52562171	R1S17TAS0D8WAK	067946333X	477028395	Fury: A Novel	Books	3	23	24	N	N	Despair	Most critics have described the latest novel of Salman Rushdie as a failure.  Very simply, they are right.  The contrast with Rushdie's three eighties novels are striking.  Midnight's Children, Shame, The Satanic Verses were not only amazingly inventive and ingenious, they were also both deeply moving and very cutting politically.  Midnight's Children included a horrifying description of Pakistan's unspeakable brutality against Bangladesh in 1971 as well as the thuggishness of Indira Gandhi's State of Emergency.  Shame, of course, was a damning portrait of Pakistani politics, caught between a vicious military and clerical elite and a demagogic populist pseudo-socialism.  The Satanic Verses, in turn, was a brilliant attack on British racism and insularity, Islamic fundamentalism and Hindu communalism.  And throughout all these books there was the alternative of a secular and leftist politics.  After writing The Satanic Verses, of course, Rushdie was forced to spend his life in hiding from the death threat issued by the Iranian government.  Although Rushdie has gradually been allowed to be seen more and more in public, he has been isolated from his native India and Pakistan, and from much of the plebian vitality that infused his novel.  At the same time Pakistan and Indian politics have become even more hopeless.  The possibility of either secularism or a leftism or even a politics seems increasingly remote.  <br />The consequences of this on his fiction are clear.  The New York that depressed academic and millionaire Malik Solanka arrives is the gaudy world of celebrity and power, the city as viewed by the writer on hiding on brief vacation.  It is not the communities of Jewish, &quot;working-class Catholic,&quot; black or Hispanic communities.  It is not a city with a society or a history or a politics.  The result, not surprisingly, is that his portrait of American consumerism is trite, uninventive, unmemorable, predictable.  There are other problems.  At times, weare told, Solanka is filled with rage, with venom.  Indeed, the reason the 55 year old academic suddenly came to New York was because one night he found himself holding a knife over his sleeping wife.  But we get no description of his rage, compared to Celine, or even Mordecai Richeler's Barney's Version, they are the mildest of reproofs.  The linguistic inventiveness seems to have almost completely dissipated.  There are still the long sentences, and the string of details, but there is no real force or passion behind them.  There is nothing here like the throw-away paragraph on the Aliens Show that Rushdie wrote in the Satanic Verses.<br />During the novel Solanka conducts three love affairs, one with his younger wife, the other two with stunningly beautiful women young enough to be his daughters.  Given that Rushdie is Solanka's age and has recently left his own wife, one might consider this an unpleasant self-indulgent fantasy.  There is in fact good reason to think so, and the fact that the relationships fail do not remove the bad taste from the reader's mouth.  Nor does the incest motif which also complicates one relationship succeed either, since it is almost impossible to write about the sexual abuse of children without appearing meretricious.  (Yet this does lead to one of the book's few memorable images:  &quot;He [Malik] could barely speak to her [his mother] without provoking a howl of guilty grief.  This alienated Malik.  He needed a mother, not a waterworks utility like the one on the Monopoly board.&quot;)<br />Solanka has made his fortune, twice, because he has produced a series of dolls which have for reason we need not go into become wildly popular.  Yet even here Rushdie's interest is slack.  A related subplot about Fijian politics, on an island named Lilliput-Blefuscu in honor of Jonathan Swift, also seems weak and underdeveloped.  (There is one good pun about eating eggs, though).  So why, may one legitimately ask, does this book get three stars, and not two or one?  <br />The answer is that although Rushdie's portrait is probably unconscious, and although the work is infused with an aesthetic illness that may well prove terminal, something of value is being described.  The title is misleading, since what is lacking is fury, passion, a sense of injustice and indignation.  (Again, one should note the contrast with Swift.)  Solanka himself is not motivated by rage, but by its absence.  Indeed, he increasingly lives in a society where such sentiments are inconceivable.  If the New York of Fury is a world without politics or history or society, then that is partially because that is the way its rulers wish it, as democracy moves from the consent of the governed to finding ingenious ways of ensuring their acquiesence.  If the hero of the Satanic Verses could redeem himself by civic duty and love for his dying father, that is increasingly not an option in today's world.  Sheer greed and selfishness masquerade as Anti-Utopian principle, while invoking Orwell is a substitute for intelligence and moral courage.  In such a world great sex is always possible for the rich, even for rich 55 year old Indian academics, but love and hope are truly utopian, (and ergo, truly evil in the world of Peretzspeak).  In such a society, Solanka's self-pity, his solipsism, his brittle personality is all too realistic.  And more like V.S. Naipaul than either author would like to admit.	2002-01-19
US	52562171	R1NELC3BX2VKPF	0786866748	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews, 1971-2000	Books	3	36	42	N	N	3.4 Stars, but should be soooo much better	Martin Amis is the son of the late Kingsley Amis.  Half of England's literary critics consider Amis pere to be one of the greatest English novelists of the last half of the previous century.  The other half don't disagree, they just find that fact enormously depressing.  Martin Amis is the author of several novels which, highly influenced by Nabokov, are very funny, extremely mordant and much better than his father's.  Martin Amis is also a skillful and intelligent and amusing journalist, as well as an accomplished memoirist.  So surely this collection of literary criticism and essays should belong on the same high shelves with Christopher Hitchens' For the Sake of Argument, Dwight Macdonald's Against the American Grain, Alexander Cockburn's Corruptions of Empire, Conor Cruise O'Brien's Writers and Politics, Alan Bennett's Writing Home, James Wood's The Broken Estate or even Tom Paulin's Ireland and the English Crisis.<br />Yet there is something a bit off about collection.  We start off with a collection of reviews on masculinity, looking at Iron John, Hillary Clinton, Nuclear War and Pornography.  Then it's on to a collection of reviews of English writers, then to an extended defence of his father's closest friend, the poet Philip Larkin.  We proceed to reviews of more canonical writers, then a review of popular novels, then a whole section on Vladimir Nabokov.  We then go on to a section on American writers, a section labelled &quot;obsessions and curiosities&quot;, a whole section devoted to John Updike, another section that is mostly about V.S. Naipaul and then five concluding essays on great novels.  Surely there is much for everyone to enjoy.<br />It's not that Amis isn't amusing.  Consider this passage on Michael Crichton's The Lost World:  &quot;Out there, beyond the foliage, you see herds of cliches, roaming free.  You will listen in 'stunned silence' to an 'unearthly cry' or a 'deafening roar'.  Raptors are 'rapacious'.  Reptiles are 'reptilian'. Pain is'searing'.&quot;  Or consider this comment on George Steiner's book on the 1972 Fisher-Spassky match:  &quot;Yet one of the more attractive things about Steiner's new book is how refreshingly unSteineresque it is...Page after page goes by without any reference to Auschwitz.&quot;  All this is well and good, but something about is palls.  Perhaps there is something too easy in making fun about a book as unrelievedly wretched as Richard Rhodes' book on sex life.  One can't help by comparing it to Katha Pollitt's review of the same book in the New Republic to note that something is off.<br />Sometimes Amis' attacks suffer from the passage of time.  Did people really think two decades ago that John Fowles was one of the great living English novelists, and that D.M. Thomas was one of the most promising writers around?  Good of Amis to recognize that wasn't true, but his criticisms lack the stylistic brilliance and moral indignation that marks Dwight Macdonald's polemic against James Gould Cozzens.  And what is the point of writing four reviews about Iris Murdoch if at the end she is not perforated like a pincushion, but leaves her to write still more novels?  Amis despises bad writing but he is kinder than his hero Nabokov to the offenders.  But one does not sense a genuine sense of outrage at the sight of a literature slowly poisoned by the middlebrow and the bland.  Karl Kraus's writings were once praised to be like &quot;public executions.&quot;  Amis' own comments are surprisingly genteel in contrast.<br />Other thoughts?  There is a review of an anthology of modern humor that promises to be very cruel against the poor editor, the late Mordecai Richeler.  But by the end of it Amis' review seems to have turned into an example of what he is criticizing.  And one of his examples of bad humour, a passage by Stephen Leacock, undermines everything by showing signs of being amusing.  The defence of Larkin does benefit from the fact that saying Larkin was one the last half-century's great English poets is less depressing that saying Kingsley Amis was one of the last-half century's great English novelists.  But it is striking that Larkin and Amis sr were among the last people on earth who would look beyond the ungenerous, self-pitying and spiteful surface and praise the poetry.  Can't imagine them being so nice about Brecht and Neruda, but then Brecht and Neruda had the misfortune of being dedicated Communist and superior poets.  And I think Amis is quite wrong to think Martin Seymour-Smith unusually exotic and esoteric to consider Pirandello the last century's greatest writer of short stories.  The praise for Ulysses does remind us of Joyce's considerable talent for the striking image.  But literature is more than a series of brilliant metaphors and striking images.  Amis does not really confront those like Dreiser, but also Dostoyevsky, whose style does not match Nabokov's peerless sheen but whose achievement is so much greater.  At least Martin Amis appreciates Kafka, which is more than you can say for his father.	2002-01-12
US	52562171	R1FH3W2GQI1M48	006091453X	414092052	Reconstruction (New American Nation Series)	Books	5	39	52	N	N	A masterpiece of American history	Based on 98 sets of private papers and more than fifty contemporary periodicals and newspapers, Eric Foner's Reconstruction is a superbly researched work of history.  But this book is more than simply a synthesis that refutes the racist Dunning school interpretations.  It is an invaluable and innovative work of history in its own right.  First, Foner emphasizes the self-activity of the African-American community in its own right, as ex-slaves struggle to form their own churches, educate their children, revive their family life and mobilize themselves for political action.  Second, Foner notes that racism cannot be seen as a diabolos de machina, dooming Reconstruction policies on the shoals of immutable prejudice, but as a complex phenomenon that, though very powerful, was also effected by other forces.  Third, and perhaps most important, Foner explains the Reconstruction period as part of a transition towards capitalism.  He is excellent on the implications and limitations of the Republican free labor policy, and on how African-Americans and white yeomanry tried to maintain their independence from the market and were ultimately sabatoged in this goal by the malevolence of the reconfigured and reconstitued Southern elite.  For these passages alone, Foner has made an invaluable contribution to a Marxist interpretation of American history.  <br />One should not forget Foner's considerable skills of summarization and detail.  One remembers such details as the fact that Andrew Johnson was so cheap and penny-pinching that he opposed aid to assist the victims of the Irish potato famine.  One is struck repeatedly by the use of violence to defeat Reconstruction (300 African-Americans alone were murdered by vigilantes in the summer of 1874 in Mississippi).  One is also struck by Foner's insight on many issues.  When I first read this book thirteen years I was amazed to realize that white opposition to the Confederacy was not simply confined to West Virginia and border stateslike Tennessee, but also to the interior regions of Alabama and North Carolina.  There is also Foner's portrait of Lincoln who, if less than heroic in this account, is redemmed by an open-mindedness and willingness to consider alternatives.  Foner also refutes the vulgar Beardian view that the Republican Radicals were nothing more than an advance army for Northern Industrialists, though at the same time pointing out the limitations of their laissez faire ideology.  As the best volume in the Harper and Row New American Nation series one should point out that Foner also goes into detail about the transformation of the North, the rise of industrial capitalism, of labor protest, of the fate of the women's suffrage movement, and the brutal conquest of the West.  Foner is also acute on the difficulties between the black-white alliance in much of the South, which was not merely the result of white racism, but also the undermining of yeomary independence and the contradictions of Southern Republican policy.  (It needed to raise taxes to insure vital public services like education, but it also tried to encourage market production at a time when massive debt and low commodity prices insured the weakening of small landholders.)<br />But what makes Foner's account so superb is that it is a moving and haunting narrative of a great injustice and a great tragedy. Foner discusses the ungeneous attitude of the post Civil war Southern elite as they sought to reintroduce as much of slavery as they could, and as they vitiated education and the judiciary and other protections for freed people.  To everyone's surprise the Radical Republicans are able to arouse enough popular opposition to overcome this.  But they are limited by a tragic flaw:  their free labour ideology cannot recognize the reality of class struggle.  Their laissez-faire ideology limits their options.  Foner is excellent on the fate of the land question, and he points out that land itself would not have ensured Africa-American prosperity.  But every little bit helps and every little bit hurts.  As one reads the results of &quot;Redemption,&quot; and the rise of violence, disfranchisement, the sacking of black education, the adulteration of the judicial and creditor system to benefits whites against blacks and planters against everyone else, one learns a vital truth.  The Reconstruction era was arguably the Republican party's finest hour, as it willingly went to the defense of a despised and powerless minority.  By contrast, with its psychotic racism and fatuous laissez-faire cant, this was one of the worst hours of any American conservatism.  In his History of the American People, Woodrow Wilson once condescendingly referred to the ex-slaves as &quot;a host of dusky children untimely let out of school.&quot;  Of course, slavery was a school whose pupils were forbidden to read and never allowed to graduate from.  In reading this book, one can feel only rage at those intellectuals who euphemize violence and condescend to its victims.	2001-12-30
US	52562171	R42H3LUQAQS9C	0521570425	455207286	The Transition to a Colonial Economy: Weavers, Merchants and Kings in South India, 1720-1800 (Cambridge Studies in Indian History and Society)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Why would anyone want to read this book?	This book is about the fate of weavers in Southern Indian during the eighteenth century and their relationship with local merchants and the East India Company.  Gee, sounds fascinating.  Why would anyone want to read about such a dull and technical topic?  The very good reason actually is that Parthasarathi has an important new thesis which is directly relevant not only to the history of India, but also to the relationship of India to the rest of the world, and to the moral costs of Empire.  Parthasarathi's thesis is that while for centuries people have assumed that the laborers were desperately poor, in fact their circumstances dramatically worsened after the establishment of Colonial Rule.  Is this not similar to the old nationalist allegations?  And haven't those allegations long been refuted.  Not quite.  In one region of India the real wages of one group of agricultural laborers in 1976 was only a third of those in 1795.  And Parthasarathi argues that real wages compared very well with those in Britain at the time.<br />How could this be so?  Parthasarathi argues that weavers were able to maintain a strong position against weavers.  They could use (and abuse) advances of their goods, while merchants had trouble enforcing their debts.  One might think this was odd, since usury would appear to be something that merchants would tend to be very good at.  Even more important weavers and peasant society was often very mobile, and they went from princely state to princely state, using competition from kings to their own advantage.  They also possessed strong village and caste organization which increased their solidarity.  As for wages, although their levels were lower than Britain's, their real wages were comparable because the price of grain was so much lower in India.  This in turn was not simply the result of superior Indian agriculture, but also conscious processes of agricultural investment by rulers as well as attempts to gain peripatetic laborers.<br />However, from the 1760s onward, the East India Company started turning things around and for the worse.  They eliminated the role of the mrechants in advancing credit, allowing them to reduce prices and quantity.  They monopolized the cloth trade, so weavers could not sell their product to other rivals.  They also sought to strengthen their contractual positions, and enforce their debts.  At the same time they possessed an expanding authority that was very different from the old Indian states.  Whereas Indian rulers were often suspicious of merchants, the Company united the two realms.  Moreover, whereas according to Parthasarathi rulers were reluctant to use force against local communities, the Company had no such compunctions.  It could and would force wandering laborers to stay put and to get them back when they wandered away.  Weavers resisted this, sometimes violently, and Parthasarathi devotes a whole chapter to weaver resistance.  In contrast to earlier nationalist writers, Parthasarathi argues that merchants helped support Company, and ultimately British rule, in order to reinforce their own power.  By following these methods, the company reduced the need the invest in agriculture, since there was no need to appease the weavers.  The result was agricultural stagnation and decline, which dramatically undercuts the idea that Colonial rule put India on the true and only path to modernity.<br />There are some problems with this book.  Considering that the text runs to less than 150 pages, it is absurdly overpriced.  Moreover, the writing is not particularly vivid, especially the appendices.  And in discussing the practice of Indian kings, Parthasarathi tends to quote their benevolent proclamations and discuss less what they actually did.  There is a concentration on weavers as opposed to the overwhelming rural majority, and most of the points could have been further developed.  But this is an otherwise well documented book as far as it goes, and the challenge it provides to images of Oriental despotism and Indian stagnation is well worth considering.	2001-12-25
US	52562171	R913L9A9NU7LU	0195136853	7142029	Enemies of the Enlightenment: The French Counter-Enlightenment and the Making of Modernity	Books	4	41	54	N	N	Useful	It is the most useful value of this book by Darrin McMahon that it shows the fallacy of those assumptions.  There is, in McMahon's account a coherent and formidable counter-enlightenmnet ideology.  It is not the pluralist and skeptical objections of a Herder or a Hamann, but the authoritarian, deeply Catholic and deeply illiberal world of Gerard, Seguir, Sabatier, Bonald and Barruel.  The reader may wonder whose these people are, and in contrast to must recent writing critical of the Enlightenment, McMahon does not find these intellectuals worthy of much sympathy or intellectual admiration.  The most famous of these is probably the Abbe Barruel, not for the acuity of his thought, but because he wrote in the late 1790s a book that became the bible of right-wing paranoia.  In it he claimed that the French Revolution was a conspiracy of atheists, and Freemasons.  As Norman Cohn pointed out a generation ago, this ideology would ultimately manifest itself in the forging of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.  <br />McMahon starts off with a chapter on pre-revolutionary Counter-Enlightenment which concentrates on Catholic and Royalist objections to the Enlightenment.  He points out that many of them cited Rousseau against the deists and atheists, though later Rousseau would join Voltaire and Diderot as the anti-christ of the Enlightenment.  In contrast to Furet he notes how conspiracy theories proliferated on the Counter-Enlightenment before the fall of the Bastille and as the years went on, fears of philosophe and Protestant conspiracies proliferated in the counter-revolutionary press.  A particular virtue of McMahon's account is how well-documented it is.  Too much revisionist history concentrates on only a few intellectuals, and concentrating on their exegesis.  This is true of Keith Michael Baker's Inventing the French Revolution and for scholars such as Mona Ozouf who look at Robespierre and Saint Just, but not Barere or Carnot.  McMahon is also useful on how this ideology formed a Counter-Enlightenment international, that spread its influence most in Catholic countries (though Edmund Burke did give Barruel a warm and most undeserved endorsement).  Contra Joan Landes he reminds us of the obvious fact the leading supporters of female subordination were on the Counter-Enlightenment Right.  He is useful in citing Timothy Tackett on the rise of conspiracy theory paranoia in revolutionary France, as well as Sheryl Kroen's work on the Restoration Regime.<br />There are some reservations to be made about the book.  There is a tendency to over-emphasize the similarities between left and right (especially in these days when the similarities in America between right and center are all too evident).  While it is true that the fears of both extremes fed the other, McMahon does not explain why the center failed to hold if its opponents were so patently paranoid.  (My answer:  arguably they weren't).  Nor is McMahon as clear as he could be on the \\"modernity\\" of the Counter-Enlightenment.  To some extent, describing something as modern is almost tautological.  After all the World Trade Center was attacked with airplanes, not torches.  How could one live and have an effect on the modern world without sharing some of its modernity?  In pointing out that the Counter-Enlightenment wanted a revived Catholicism that was utopian to demand, McMahon does not sufficiently probe whether any political movement could survive without an appeal to something beyond the actually existing.  McMahon also spends surprisingly little time discussing Joseph De Maistre, certainly the most important of these intellectuals.  Nor is he entirely fair to Adorno and Horkheimer's The Dialectic of Enlightenment, which does explicitly state that Enlightenment is essential to any hope for a better society.  Adorno explictly stated that the only cure for the dilemmas of reason were more reason.  McMahon cites Robert Darnton's critique.  But Darnton fails to mention Adorno's defence of reason, and he makes his cases by citing the \\"good guys\\" of the Enlightenment.  It is true, and important to remember, that Diderot admired Tahitian society and that Condorcet was open-minded and pluralistic.  But it is also true that Hume and Kant indulged slavery and white supremacy and that Bentham was notoriously unimaginative and dogmatic.  The scientism of a Teller or a Galton or a Heisenberg may be a heresy, but it is not a minor or incidental one.  Notwithstanding these criticisms, however, this is an important book.	2001-12-24
US	52562171	RQ13UNPJB7PH5	0674004892	867284825	Economic Sentiments: Adam Smith, Condorcet, and the Enlightenment	Books	4	20	21	N	N	In defence of the Enlightenment	To their enemies the Marquis de Condorcet was the epitome of the worst elements of the French Enlightenment, fatuously optimistic, subtly intolerant and dangerous utopian with his emphasis on the &quot;perfectability&quot; of man, while the notoriously absent-minded Adam Smith was the architect of a notoriously callous and philistine economic theory.  Aside from that, the enthusiastic and idealistic Condorcet does not appear to have much in common with the quiet and discreet Smith.  Emma Rothschild is the husband of the nobel prize winning economist A. Sen, whose most famous work shows the devastating effect dogmatically applied free market rules can have on worsening famines.  Yet this book is a defense of the two from the critics of the Enlightenment.<br />To a surprising extent she succeeds.  Conservatives will be unpleasantly surprised to read that in the decade after his death, mentioning your support of Smith did not prevent Scottish democrats from being transported to Australia by reactionary Scottish judges.  For many years Tories did not view Smith as the great economist or philosopher.  Instead Smith was the man whose account of his friend, the atheist philosopher David Hume on his deathbed, enraged the pious for showing Hume's complete calm, class and lack of fear of eternal damnation.  Rothschild notes how the great economist Carl Menger noted how prominent socialists quoted Smith against their enemies.  (Oddly enough she does not quote the passage in CAPITAL where Marx cites an enraged prelate angry at Smith for classifying priests as &quot;unproductive labor.)  Smith was an opponent of militarism, a supporter of high wages, and a supporter of French philosophy (and not unsympathetic to the French Revolution,either).  Reading of his relations with Turgot and Condorcet, it will be much harder to defend the view of a sharp distinction between a good sensible Protestant Enlightenment, and a bad, Nasty, atheist one on the continent. <br />In discussing Turgot and Condorcet's support for the free trade in grain, which Smith also supported, Rothschild helps remind us that laissez faire did not simply mean watching while people starved.  Confronted with the threat of famine in Limousin in 1770, Turgot preserved the freedom of the corn trade.  But he also provided workshops for the poor, increased grain imports from other regions, reduced taxes for the poor, and protected poor tenants from eviction.  Condorcet and Smith were both sympathetic to these policies.  Rothschild also devotes a whole chapter to Smith's metaphor of the &quot;invisible hand.&quot;  She points out how rarely it was used in Smith's work, and how on the centennial of the publication of the Wealth of Nation almost no-one mentioned it, even at a special celebration organized by William Gladstone.  She then goes into how the concept is used in Smith's works.  The concept is complex, and in my view not entirely convincing.  But she is successful in pointing out how Smith did not follow Hayek in viewing pre-existing structures as the product of an infallible &quot;organic&quot; wisdom.  In contrast to the cant of a Calhoun or a Kendall, Smith realized that the most tyrannical acts of government are those that are local and unofficial.  <br />One should point out the defense of Condorcet as well.  In an age where Francois Furet, Keith Michael Baker, Mona Ozouf and others have castigated the French Revolutionary tradition as inherently totalitarian, it is good to be reminded that Condorcet is firmly in the liberal tradition.  Like Smith, Condorcet was a great supporter of public education, in contrast to the conservative critics of both.  Rothschild discusses his views as an economist, and as a theorist of proportional representation.  Surprisingly she does not discuss what were Condorcet's most admirable views, his support for female emancipation and suffrage.  But she is excellent in pointing out how Condorcet opposed the crassness of the utilitarians.  She notes how Condorcet had a view of the limits of truth and scientific inquiry that would have been approved by Karl Popper himself.  She notes that he did not believe that voting could or should create a General Will, in the Rousseauean Sense. He did not believe in using education as a form of propoaganda in civic studies, while his opinions were closer to the reservations of a Herder, a Holderin or a Kant than previously believed.<br />The book is not perfect.  Although studiously documented, most of the quotes are from Smith and Condorcet themselves.  More historical context could have been provided.  There should have been more about actual historical studies of famines, and more on the political and social context of modern Scotland would have been very informative.  And her defense of Condorcet would have been stronger if Rothschild had confronted the well-deserved reputation of Condorcet's colleagues in the Gironde for hypocrisy and demagoguery. But this is an important work, and it helps link one of the most familiar of &quot;english&quot; minds into a full international context.  That in itself is praise enough.	2001-12-24
US	52562171	R3U4ZUKDFXBPHF	0805052089	854975809	The Price of Citizenship: Redefining the American Welfare State	Books	4	14	16	N	N	The best book yet on the fate of welfare	Michael Katz's monograph on the end of AFDC and the rise of market systems as the preferred solution to everything is not the wittiest and most readable book one could have on the subject.  Nor is it the most passionate.  But it is thoroughly documented and it manifestly shows how the attack on the welfare state in the nineties has increased inequality and decreased security for most Americans.  Katz starts off with a fine description of poverty and inequality in the modern American city.  He emphasizes, as others have, the very generous government and public support for suburbia at the expense of the inner city, especially in transport and housing.  Suburbia's most privileged and coddled residents then turned around to denounce any welfare and assistance to people not like themselves as the most horrendous abuse imaginable of taxpayer funds.  More, I think, could have been said about the rise of the conservative ascendency, particularly the weakness of the Democratic Party and trade unions to serve or to mobilize any liberal alternative.<br />Katz then goes on to provide useful and informative chapters on governors as welfare reformers, mayors as welfare reformers, the limits of private charity, the decline of employer benefits, increased risks for the injured and disabled and unemployed,  &quot;reform&quot; of social security, new market models for health care, the fate of food stamps and legal services and the end of welfare.  Each chapter is useful and will be very illuminating for those who only read The New Republic.  Consider the case of John Engler's welfare reform, which boasted of its removal of people from the welfare rolls and their placement in paying employment.  But how much of this was the result of the reforms and how much was it that of a booming economy?  A study found that when compared to a control group, Engler's programs had increased adult employment by only 2.4%.  And in Detroit 60% of children under five still lived in poverty in 1996.  Theeven more hyped case of Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin (now the Secretary in charge of getting hysterical over anthrax) is even more convincingly deflated.  Thompson's Learnfare, a program of denying benefits to families whose children do not attend school, certainly seemed tough and punitive, but even state agencies agreed it hadn't actually increased school attendance.  It may appear encouraging that from 1987-1995 Wisconsin's AFDC payroll dropped by a nearly a quarter.  But 75% of that decline occured in his first term, before his plans had time to take effect.  The centrist Democratic mayor of Philadelphia has been much praised, but the city was still losing people and perhaps 27% of the population was below the poverty line.  Privitization in Indianopolis actualy increased long-term debt, while taxes rose and homicides beat new records in 1994 and 1997.<br />Empowerment zones are also deflated:  &quot;In June 1999 the Philadelphia empowerment zone reported that it had helped businesses create four hundred jobs, but it could not say whether the jobs already existed or were projected for the future.&quot;  Private charities have never, Katz points out, cared for most of America's needy.  Many private charities depend on government funds for their work, and much of charity goes to religious denominations, as opposed to poor per se.  The distinction can be seen in 1994 when the governor of Mississippi asked the states' 5,500 churches to adapt a needy family, only 15 followed through.  We then move to the steady evisceration of company benefits, along with attempts to gut workmen's compensation and unemployment insurance. <br />Katz is good at pointing out the flaws in conservative attacks on welfare.  He discusses the 1995 campaign against disability benefits, which relied on anecdotal evidence, despite four major studies that found no evidence of widespread fraud or abuse.  A hotline to report fraud found only 83 serious cases out of a million eligible children.  Katz also discusses the conservative panic over social security, such as how their vaunted &quot;Chilean&quot; model has high administrative costs and in 1995 was actually losing money.  The Enron debacle only vindicates Katz's criticisms.  Katz also details the failure of for-profit hospitals, with their own habits of &quot;waste, fraud and abuse,&quot; and the debacle that is managed care.  He notes how legal services in the United States receives only a fraction of the money alloted to it in Ontario and Britain.  He deflates conservative propaganda that AFDC causes illegitimacy (if so, why is single parenting rising when the value of AFDC benefits had been dropping for decades?) He notes that welfare reform has proven more successful at reducing rolls than reducing poverty, and there has a been a noted reluctance for people to research how those thrown off rolls are doing.  (Reports that 50% of ex-recepients have found jobs are not all that different from statistics in the eighties) By the end of the book Katz has clearly shown that we now live in a world where the price of citizenship is paid by those who can least afford it, as they are governed by men (and occasionally women) who believe that sacrifices are something that only other people do.	2001-12-15
US	52562171	R3LX5NM5LV7AN0	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	2	18	41	N	N	In Contempt	When Fifth Business was published in 1970 it was very different from the ordinary English-Canadian novel (or the ordinary French-Canadian one).  Canada was one of the last countries on earth to develop a literary modernism.  The first modernist novel is dated to 1959, long after major achievements from Guatemala, Poland, Australia or Japan.  The strange story behind Fifth Business differs it remarkably from the conventional, conservative and quite frankly unimiginative works such as Hugh MacLennan.  Starting out at the turn of the century in the small Ontario town of Deptford, it tells of two young boys, Dunstan Ramsay and Percy \\"Piggy-Boy\\" Staunton.  The two get into an argument and Staunton throws a snowball with a stone in it at Ramsey.  Instead it hits Mrs. Dempster, the Baptist Minister's wife and she gives birth prematurely to Paul Dempster.  Later Paul will vanish, supposedly running away to join the circus, only to reappear as the great magician Magnus Eisengrim.  Ramsey becomes a leading scholar on saints and becomes obsessed with the idea that Mrs. Dempster is one.  Staunton becomes increasingly powerful and is on the verge of becoming lieutenant governor of Ontario, when he dies in a car crash.  At the end of the first novel Eisengrim's bearded lady assistant gives a cryptic message on who was responsible for Staunton's death (Ramsey is the in the role of \\"fifth Business.\\") So far, the story is very intersting and the reader will undoubtedly wish to read, The Manticore, in which Staunton's son undergoes Jungian analysis, and the World of Wonders, in which Eisengrim tells the stroy of his life.<br />Unfortunately, not only does the trilogy not mantain this interest, its increasingly repulsive nature becomes more and more evident.  One problem, and it is a very serious problem, is Davies' fascination with Jung.  This dates the novel badly, since in the intereceding three decades while Freud's reputation has declined, Jung's reputation has completely disintergrated.  Jung's supposedly asexual and anti-sexual theory is in striking contrast to his contemptible and caddish sexual exploitation of some of his patients.  His invocation of deep mythology and the mysteries of Asia now appears fashionable and shallow.  And one cannot forgive his anti-semitic sneers against Freud and his flattering of the Third Reich from the safety of neutral Switzerland.<br />Davies has taken from Jung two things.  First, he takes a fashionable mysticism which appears striking in Fifth Business but means less and less as the trilogy proceeds. Secondly, and far more damaging, Davies takes from Jung a contempt for sexuality, that turns into a contempt from sexual love and for love itself.  It's not simply that the solution to Staunton's death is one that causes the other character the absolute minimum in guilt and moral discomfort.  Sexual Desire is shown up only to be mocked.  Ramsay is momentarily infatuated by a circus girl only to find out that she is a lesbian.  One of the journalists who interview Eisengrim is later revealed to have made a fool of himself in a sexual escapade.  Staunton's son only has one sexual experience, not with the attractive and intelligent Jewish girl who might make him a good wife, but with a much older woman his insenstive father asks to relieve him of his virginity.  The pedophile who initiates Dempsey/Eisengrim into the circus become a pathetic defenerate.  And one should note how the trilogy treats the protagonists' parents.  Several of them die in the post-war influenza epidemic, and without the characters showing any grief.  Not to give too much about the Mrs. Dempsey subplot, not only is Mrs. Dempsey not a saint, but her son shows no concern for her once he learns she is dead. It is striking that Saul Bellow should admire Davies so much, since the compassion of such works as Seize the Day, is clearly lacking on Davies part.  As the novel ends, the real story of the Deptford Trilogy is that the only two characters who show the capacity for sexual love end up condemned, destroyed and constantly belittled and despised throughout the novel.	2001-12-10
US	52562171	R27V72MK82ZHSF	0674006631	553999206	Inheriting the Revolution: The First Generation of Americans	Books	3	27	32	N	N	Some Reservations	I have some reservations about this book.  1) Its main new primary sources are the several hundred autobiographies that were written in the first decades of the new republic and which Appleby has read.  I would suggest that these autobiographies have their own systematic bias.  They represent the literate side of the United States, as opposed to the 30%-50% of American whites (and the overwhelming majority of slaves) who were either illiterate, had strictly limited literacy or had little contact with the world of print.  Similarly these autobiographies privilege the middle class over the others, the story of the successful entrepreneur over the stories of the unsuccessful or only partially successful.  It also privileges the religious over the non-religious.  Given the fact that the early United States was an overwhelmingly rural country and that it only had a poor and parochial intelligentsia, it is not surprising that evangelical propaganda had a disproportionately large influence in American publishing.  There was a market for accounts in which the subjects feared for their very souls and who wrestled with the demons of the world.  There was much less of a market for people who had no qualms with sleeping with their fiances and who thought Methodists should mind their own business.  Yet at the turn of the century one-third of New England women conceived their first child outside of marriage, and the rate was probably higher elsewhere.  At one point Appleby notes how little interest or affection her autobiographers showed for Andrew Jackson.  Yet considering that Jackson was only three men to win a plurality of the vote for the presidency three times (Cleveland and FDR are the other two) this points out an important bias in her selection.<br />2) Appleby has a talent for interesting setpieces, such as the rise of duelling as a symbol for the political passions of the Jeffersonian era, or the dialectic of refinement and plainness while obscure biblical names wentout of fashion, or the culture of drink or alcoholism.  Yet her account of Americans considering their revolutionary tradition misses something.  There is a discussion of the triumph of Jefferson and the failure of the Federalists, an account of party strife, and the limits of Northern Emancipation.  Yet there is a certain passion missing about the meaning of democracy and liberty here.  This is book which concentrates more on the successful entrepreneur than the unsuccessful working man.  It discusses race and gender, but it does not really elucidate the dialectic between slave and citizen, and men and women that are crucial to understanding why such potent ideologies arose and their effect.<br />3) In order to appreciate this book's limits one should compare her work with other recent works of scholarship.  One should contrast her appreciative account of Jeffersonian democracy with the subtle, ironical and methodically documented accounts of Alan Taylor which shows the limited gains by Maine farmers, or the political limits of the enemies of Mr. William Cooper.  In contrast to her somewhat upbeat account of the industrialization and commercialization of the United States, one should look more closely at Christopher Clark's painstaking narrative of the rise of rural Capitalism in Western Massachusetts.  One should contrast her brief comments on love and sexuality, with Nancy Cott's startling demonstration of the fragility of marriage.  In contrast to her use of autobiographies one should look at Mechal Sobel's recent work which suggests the rise of a new personality in the United States, more individualistic, less communal.  (The discredited concept of bourgeois revolution vindicated by psychoanalysis?  We shall see.)  And Appleby's account of the triumph of evangelicalism appears a bit complacent, a bit boosterish in its enthusiasm for the winning side in contrast to the recent work of Jon Butler and Christine Heyrman.  In conclusion, one might say this book reminds one of Tocqueville.  This is not meant as a compliment, since one reason for Tocqueville's abiding popularity and the almost total absence of serious criticism of him is that he provides a complex picture of modern society and its disconents in which questions of liberty and justice are ultimately irrelevant.  When such questions arise they are not values in their own right, but problems which must be ably managed by the wise elite Tocqueville is part of.  Of course Appleby cares very much about liberty and democracy.  What is not so clear is whether she has thought through them enough.	2001-11-29
US	52562171	R2RA1D4GIOMDPU	0765800004	921770812	Against the Idols of the Age	Books	1	33	81	N	N	Not so much common sense as common sophistry	During the fifties and sixties the United States government looked around the world for intellectuals who would support their cause in the cold war.  Using the surreptitious services of the CIA they funded a number of magazines, the most famous being the journal Encounter.  But they also funded magazines in France and Italy, and while the intellectuals in my native Canada were either too mediocre or too reliable to get their own special subsidy, Australia's conservative intellectuals got their own special magazine Quadrant.  Now there is something deeply hypocritical in proclaiming your independence and intellectual courage while relying on patrons who, when not enjoying your latest polemic against Jean-Paul Sartre, are engaged in torture, assassination and narcotics trafficking.  It is from this disingenuous milieu that the late David Stove, a philosopher of science from New Zealand worked in, and it is his collection of essays that is the subject of this book.  But if hypocrisy and disingenuousness were the only problems with Stove's attacks on feminism, Sir Karl Popper, Darwinism and historians of science this would be a much more tolerable book.  There is no doubt that Stove is forthright and sincere in the defence of his convictions.  But he is also cheaply abusive and deeply incapable of appreciating an opposing argument.<br />Do we have proof of this?  We do indeed.  Stove has the very irritating habit of referring to opposing arguments as childishly stupid, easily refutable, patently stupid, and similar terms.  It is not just myself who finds this abuse directed at Hobbes, Huxley and D'Holbach very irritating.  Even Roger Kimball, the editor, agrees this doesn't really do justice to Plato or Kant.  Critics of Karl Popper and Richard Dawkins should easily turn to The New York Review of Books instead of bothering with Stove's own polemics. The essay on D'Holbach is basically a truculent attack on the claim that ignorance is the greatest evil affecting man andthat increasing knowledge would help reduce suffering.  Stove concedes nothing in this essay, though it should have occurred to him that his not dying of smallpox is a triumph of 18th century science, much as his loved ones not dying in childbirth because of pupereal fever is a triumph of 19th century science.<br />As for failing to get the point of one's opponents, consider Stove's essays on Darwinism.  A basic tenet of Darwin's theory starts from the fact that when living beings reproduce they do more than replace their parents.  Anyone who has ever owned a dog or a cat know that litters have more than two children.  Human beings do not stop having sex once they have produced two children.  Insects can have thousands, possibly millions of offspring.  Now if these rates of reproduction were maintained, the world would be overwhelmed not merely with humans, but with roses, eucalyptus trees, octopi, emperor penguins and panda bears.  Obviously, this has not happened.  There is in fact, a great struggle for existence, and it is this struggle which sets the stage for natural selection.  What Stove does, however, is to amend Darwin's theory to say that Darwinism stands for the proposition that everywhere and always populations are filled to the bursting point and that populations seek to reproduce as many of themselves as conceivably possible.  Having misstated the theory, Stove easily shows that it is wrong, since often people are celibate, they rarely engage in incest, pets are often neutered (though this is done to prevent them from breeding out of control) and population numbers are often kept low by predation.  But Stove has not refuted Darwinism, he has simply engaged in polemical slight of hand.   Likewise in arguing about the evolution of humans he argues against the idea that we have mitigated the effects of natural selection by asking why the first original men did not simply eat their mates and children.  Well, at the risk of being very obvious, any species which did engage in such behaviour would very likely end up instinct, while those who avoided that would, on impeccably Darwinist grounds, be much more likely to survive.<br />And then there is Stove's essay on the intelligence of women.  Stove's essay argues that since most of the intellectual achievement of the past was by men, it must be because they are in fact really more intelligent than women.  The flaws in this argument are many and numerous.  It is like arguing that since Russian literature before Pushkin had never produced a poet as great as Dryden or a novelist as fine as Swift it would never in the future.  One might point out that 140 years ago there were virtually no female doctors or lawyers or conservative philosophers of science in the English-speaking world because women were excluded from the education that would allow them to hold such a position.  As these barriers have dropped the percentage of doctors and lawyers who are female has risen to 5% to 15% to 25% to over 30%.  Is there any reason to doubt that they will eventually reach 50%?  None that Stove provides.  Stove provides an argument for the intellectual inferiority of women by invoking biology.  Yet I doubt whether he would invoke a biological argument designed before, say, 1960.  If the intellectual inferiority of women is so true and so widely held, why is proving it so difficult?  I doubt even Stove thinks Aristotle's arguments on this pass muster.  Finally, if women are intellectually inferior, what does this say about their rights?  Nothing from Stove on this matter, yet the conservative tradition that he supports and in contrast to the liberal tradition he sneers has from 1800 to 1950 argued that inferior intelligence or morals on the behalf of women, the Irish, African-Americans and Jews means lesser rights for them.  It is rather disingenuous of Stove to evade this point.	2001-11-28
US	52562171	R32CGTCT7PPWM5	0465043089	98651750	The Hidden Hitler	Books	2	78	115	N	N	Worth 1.5 stars:  I am so not convinced	It can take years for valuable works of foreign scholarship to be translated into English.  All the more irritating that the one book Basic Books should translate almost contemporaneously should be this lemon.  Lothar Machtan has done some useful research into the peripheral world of Nazi intrigue and blackmail. And the thesis that Hitler was gay is not completely implausible.  But otherwise, this is a remarkably tendentious book.  <br />Some of the most impressive work in gay studies has been to examine the socialcultural millieu of the homosexual lifestyle.  But from this book scholars like George Chauncey or Randolph Strumbach have clearly been wasting their time.  For Machtan's portrait of early German homosexuality relies on the dated and partial work of Magnus Hirschfeld.  Clearly not a subsitute for a thorough analysis, Machtan breathlessly cites Hirschfeld to state that homosexuals could be found in hostels (all of them?), the army (during mass conscription?), prison (under the fearlessly light regime that Hitler underwent?) and among lovers of Wagner (?!).  Machtan does not distinguish between homosexuality, homosociality, misogyny, misanthropy, and contempt for independent women.  There is little appreciation that one's sexual orientation isn't necessarily an invariable quality like the colour of one's eyes.  There is no systematic discussion of gender ideology in the Nazi party that would put perspective on Hitler's views.  The main evidence for Hitler's homosexuality, that he was cold and distant around women, suffers from the fact that Hitler tended to be cold and distant around men.  If there is little evidence of any great heterosexual love in his life, there is no more evidence of any great homosexual one.  Finally, and most unforgiveably, there is no real discussion of the Nazi ideology towards homosexuals, and no real systematic analysis of what they actually did to them.  Clearly detailing Nazi cruelty towards homosexuals would complicate Machten's thesis too much.<br />So much for general problems of evidence. What about Machten's specifics?  On the inside cover 10 men are listed as the &quot;homosexual or homosexually inclined men among Hitler's most intimate friends and supporters.&quot;  The homosexuality of one of these men (Rohm) has been publicly known since the thirties.  Another (Kurt Ludecke) was a homosexual blackmailer on the periphery of Hitler's circle.  The evidence that the other eight were homosexaul ranges from plausible to weak to non-existent.  Emil Maurice, Hitler's chauffeur, doesn't seem to be homosexual at all, and indeed his main sexual interest appears to have been in Hitler's niece.  Most of the others were married, several had children.  One of these was August Kubizek, Hitler's friend in pre-war Vienna.  He was married with a child, and after the Anschluss a Nazi accused him of corruption.  Nothing came of this, but Machtan gratuitously adds without evidence that this accusation was also an attack on his homosexuality.  It suits Machtan to interpret the weak and naive personalities of Kubizek and Rudolph Hess, as homosexual ones, as well as friendships with  homosexuals as evidence of homosexuality.<br />Machtan devotes a chapter to the accusation of Hans Mend, who claimed that Hitler actively carried on a homosexual relationship during the first world war at the front.  There are several problems with this, such as the fact that it is not corroborated by Hitler's other colleagues at the front, or the fact that before 1933 Mend had been convicted of petty criminal offenses, or that in 1932 Mend had tried to get money by writing a sycophantic account of Hitler's war years.  Machtan devotes another chapter to the reminisces of two obscure pro-Nazi homosexuals, Hans Ziegler and Erich Ebermayer, which amounts to little more than gossip.  He portays the night of the long knives as a cunning and well thought out plan to exterminate anyone who knew of Hitler's homosexuality.  But Ian Kershaw points out in Hubris that the Rohm Purge was simply not that well structured or thought out in advance.  Moreover, if Hitler was as promiscous as Machtan suggests, how could he be sure he would never be exposed?  Why do people only trade in innuendo and never speak out directly?  If Hitler sought to exterminate people who knew of his secret, why does Machtan quote, (second-hand of course) the evidence supposedly acquired by one prominent Bavarian opponent who later died peacefully in his bed?  I could go on about the over-elaborate 1932 plot in which Hitler supposedly secretly slanders Rohm so he can look good defending him, a plot that could have backfired so easily.  There is also the questionable assumption that all evidence of blackmail must have been about Hitler's homosexuality.  And there is the misquotation from Mein Kampf.  Hitler blamed the supposedly Jewish press in pre-war Vienna for attacking the Kaiser.  Without any evidence from the text, Machtan states these attacks must have been related to the homosexual scandals in the kaiser's entourage.  Indeed, Hitler's anger over these attacks must have been the cause of his anti-semitism!  At this point Machtan is simultaneously reductionist, tendentious and disingenous, and so is his whole book.	2001-11-10
US	52562171	R3V2LW5QGRDCUW	0691029474	905737283	Scenarios of Power. Myth and Ceremony in Russian Monarchy, Volume 2	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Welcome to the weird world of Russian monarchism	How to summarize the history of the Romanov dynasty?  Well, Peter \\"the Great\\" murdered his son, Catherine \\"the great\\" murdered her husband, and Alexander \\"the Blessed\\" was complicit in the murder of his father.  After that the dynasty went into a bit of a decline.  For the past two decades historians have been increasingly interested in the world of monarchist ritual. They have looked at how during the nineteenth century these rituals became more, not less, elaborate and they have pondered on the use of these rituals as examples of aristocratic hegemony. Wortman's well written and well documented second volume looks at the Russian version from the ascension of Alexander II in 1855 to the abdication of Nicholas II. We certainly get a lot of information on the elaborate ceremonies of the monarchy. We learn of the elaborate rituals and liturgies of the coronation ceremonies, along with fulsome and increasingly sycophantic paeans from the ranks of Orthodoxy. We are in a world of great popular feasts for the people, \\"entertained by acrobats, jugglers, stunt riders, and carousel rides,\\" which comes to its horrible climax when at least 1,500 people are trampled to death on the feast festivals of Khodynka at the coronation of Nicholas II, the direct result of tsarist incompetence. We enter the world of elaborate balls, and the exquisite detail of faberge eggs (one designed to look like Assumption Cathedral). We see new strains in royalist propaganda as Alexander III presents a nationalist and orthodox message, while Nicholas II presents a Victorian and domestic picture of his family. Rather revealingly Wortman quotes Tchaikovsky's contempt for the 1812 Overture that he composed for Alexander III's coronation.<br />But there is a larger point in Wortman's account. Much of the literature on royal power deals with its ability to dazzle the larger population. Increasingly, however, royal ritual only dazzled its monarchs. Alexander II starts off with the \\"scenario of love.\\" After the (partial) emancipation of the peasantry, Alexander II increasingly emphasized his \\"loving\\" and \\"benevolent\\" nature, as if his self-professed amiability automatically deserved to be reciprocated. As it happened Alexander II's marriage was visibly crumbling as he carried on with a much younger woman. At the same time Alexander moved away from a western path of development, he also sought to ignore what laws and regulations existed to force the rest of the nobility to accept his paramour as his second empress. <br />Alexander III's reign saw an emphasis on an increasingly chauvinist vision of Russia and Russian orthodoxy, with a new emphasis on monarchies and cathedrals. There was a weird, increasingly unreal and almost necrophiliac admiration for 17th century Moscow, before the liberal rot had set in under Peter I. There was a new emphasis on miracle as the country moved towards a military dictatorship. Nicholas II believed in all these ideas and more, but whereas Alexander III relied on the army and the dictatorship, Nicholas increasingly deluded himself into believing that he had a direct relationship with the Russian people. In this increasingly mystic view in which the \\"real\\" Russian people gave him their complete and unequivocal support, Nicholas II viewed the bureaucracies, the army, the episcopacy, other politicians simply as barriers to the implementation of his own will.<br />As a result during his rituals Nicholas II never missed an opportunity to demean the Duma, the parliament he had reluctantly allowed after the 1905 revolution and which he was planning to emasculate before war broke out in 1914. Nicholas became obsessed with \\"holy men\\" who supposedly represented the Russian people, and he and his wife shamelessly bullied the Orthodox hierarchy in order to declare one of them a saint. Reading reports from his bribed press, easily impressed by the crowds who flocked to the anniversaries and royal tours, Nicholas had deluded himself into believing that he was one with the Russian people. Becoming commander in chief of the army against the advice of almost all his ministers, by the end of his reign Nicholas could no longer count on the army, or the church, or the conservatives in his rigged parliament, or most of his family, indeed on anyone other than his wife and children. And yet he was outraged after his abdication that his brother Michael might speak hesitatingly of a constitutional monarchy. The emphasis on Victorian domestic harmony was an illusion; Wortman clearly shows that any chance Russia had of moving on towards a non-revolutionary modernity was fatally hampered by its monarch with a seventeenth century soul.	2001-11-03
US	52562171	R21SYK6TLGZYSP	0465030327	237103339	Letters to a Young Contrarian (Art of Mentoring)	Books	3	101	133	N	N	Resting on one's laurels	In his much better book Prepared for the Worst, Christopher Hitchens reviewed Norman Podhoretz's gruesome memoir Breaking Ranks, and noted among that book's many vices the way that it presented itself as an affected series of letters to Podhoretz's son.  Now years later Hitchens himself has written a series of letters to an imaginary radical who wants good advice on how to be an intelligent principled radical.  Well, anyone who really does want to be a principled radical could find worse guides than this one.  In case anyone doesn't already know it, Hitchens reminds us that the essence of politics is vigorous controversy and not smothering consensus.  One should also question the obvious, one should never be blackmailed by loyalty to one's own side into supporting the vicious, and one should be particularly contemptuous of religion. One should not be bullied by public opinion, one should always have libertarian prejudices, and one should be aware of the trap of identity politics.  There are many admirable radicals who have an excellent sense of humor, and there are other admirable radicals who take their views with the proper seriousness.  In the end Hitchens praises a radicalism, if not a socialism, that seeks a globalization of liberty, and a maximum of skepticism, indignation and self-criticism.<br />Well, good advice, at least most of it.  But there is something lazy about the whole enterprise.  Not only is the format artificial (couldn't Basic Books sprung for a real young contrarian?) but the style is as well.  I might add that the absence of a real conversation only emphasizes the similarity to the Screwtape letters.  There is one really fine passage in which Hitchens remembers about all the former political prisoners he met who have now been liberated.  But then he reminds us that the Indian Socialist Fernandes, once Indira Gandhi's prisoner, is now the defense minister of a nuclear Hindu fundamentalist government, that President Havel is less than honest about the Czech republic's Gypsies, and President Mbeki is less than sane about AIDS.<br />Unfortunately the rest of this book is less self-critical, it has the odour of a smuggly swallowed sherry.  It badly needs a spectre at its banquet.  For a start, who does Hitchens think he is arguing against when he invokes Aeropygytica or On Liberty?  (Hillary Clinton perhaps?) Twelve years ago Conor Cruise O'Brien noted a tendency of Hitchens to refer to other people in excessively chummy terms.  And in this book this tendency is becoming a bit of a nuisance, as about twenty people are offhandedly referred to as Hitchens' friend.  At one point Hitchens speaks of enthusiasm of Havel and Solzhensityn's idea that we act &quot;as if&quot; we already lived in a just society.  Looking now at the grim state of Russia in 2001, I think its politics needs something more than the inspiring examples of these saints for six o'clock.  And in rightly praising Michnik and Konrad, should not some mention be made of the fact that both Poland and Hungary have freely returned the ex-Communists to power?  And while one would ordinarily be sympathetic to his bold support of controversy and partisanship in contrast to consensus and moderation, I distinctly recall such an angry column during the Clinton impeachment trial (Feb 15, 1999, The Nation).  Maybe it's just me, but during a trial one expects, no demands, impartiality and neutrality from the jurors of a trial.  <br />Since Hitchens' next major project is to be a new hagiography (sorry, biography) of Orwell, I might make some critical comments about his invocation as a model.  People may invoke Mother Theresa or the Virgin Mary or St. Francis of Assissi as a model because, rightly or wrongly, they believe these three people possess virtues which they themselves do not have.  But when the Murdochian press or the Likudian lumpenintelligentsia see in Orwell, not just a model of intellectual courage, but a vindication of their own crassness and hypocrisy, I think we have a problem.  When everyone from Chomsky to Fussell, from Dwight MacDonald to Robert Conquest, from Bernard Crick to Martin Peretz views Orwell as a saint, only without any of those declasse Catholic connotations, and when only the late Raymond Williams stands condemned, is Orwell really the model for the contrarian of our time?  <br />Likewise, I have to dissent from Hitchens' treatment of religion.  No doubt it is true that much religious discourse in the United States is vacuous or dishonest.  But to sneer at Rilke, to condemn Pascal, and to drag in Tertullian's comments about the saved gloating over the damned strikes me as lazy.  Even the gruesome cult of Ayn Rand gets more respect than the Roman Catholic Church (for opposing conscription).  It is perfectly proper to praise Zola at the expense of the Church and the anti-Dreyfussards, but surely some mention should be made of French anticlericalism's tendencies towards paranoia, demagoguery and misogyny.  And in response to a column of his written earlier this year in praise of iconoclasm, I can't help but respond that Richard Pipes has shown that the Leninist campaign against the church was an unmitigated human and moral disaster.<br />The book contains many interesting anecdotes about Brecht, Bosnia, Milosz, Debs, and Paine, most of which have appeared in Prepared for the Worst, or For the Sake of Argument.  Readers who admire Hitchens should turn to those books to see Hitchens at his best.	2001-10-30
US	52562171	R2G04F8DRXPOHU	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	2	30	38	N	N	Not so hot.	Back in 1997 Niall Ferguson edited a collection of essays called Virtual History, which offered some scholarly discussion of counterfactuals.  That book had a tory tinge to it (Could have we avoided Cromwell, the first world war, and that nasty business with the colonies in 1776?  Why yes!  Could we have avoided the cold war, created a United Ireland, and under the presidency of a living JFK solved the problems of the sixties.  Nope, sorry, out of luck), but it was scrupulous and based on a solid understanding of both the scholarly literature and what actually happened.<br />This collection of essays is not of the same standard.  Some of the historians aren't even historians, such as Lance Morrow on Johnson, Kennedy and Nixon in 1948, and the understanding is considerably less rigorous and thorough.  Take, for a start an essay on whether the great Ming expeditions of the 1400s could have discovered America?  This undoubtedly would have made a difference to world history had they found America first.  But as Jack Goldstone pointed out last year it's not at all surprising that the expeditions were cancelled.  There was very little on the East Coast of Africa (let alone the West coast) to justify the expense of continuing them.   There is also an anachronistic tendency to read into the past what we know about today.    I remember a counterfactual written in the People's Almanac during the seventies, which dealt with the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union and it included the utterly unbelievable plot twist of having Solzhenitsyn raise a successful rebellion against Stalin.  The same flaw occurs in John Lukacs' essay on Theodore Roosevelt winning the first world war a year early, which has Roosevelt preventing Trotsky's return to Russia at a time when the real Roosevelt would not have known who he was.  <BR>  <br />Consider also the essay on what would have happened if Jesus had not been crucified.  The author speculates that if Jesus had not died the Roman Empire would have been so interested in its message of giving Caesar his due, they would have protected and sponsored it after Jesus inevitable death so that it would last long enough for Constantine to make it the official religion.  The result is that Europe would still be Christian, indeed it might even be more Christian.  But clearly the author has subordinated a historical understanding of what happened to a cheaply ironic result.  First off, we do not fully know whether Jesus' teachings were as sympathetic to the authorities as they are presented in the gospels.  There is, after all, a gap of thirty to sixty years between the events they describe and their creation.  Secondly, and more important, as G.E.M. de Ste Croix pointed out in his classic The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World, the most striking thing about Jesus was his isolation from the larger Hellenic-Roman world.  What is often viewed as a betrayal or a declension of Christianity, was actually St. Paul's tranfer of this isolated rural and peasant view to a more commercial and cosmopolitan world.  Had Jesus lived, there is no reason to believe that anyone outside of Palestine would have any interest in what he thought.<br />Especially unconvincing is George Feiffer's essay on what would have happened if Lenin had not been able to get back into Russia on the sealed train.  The answer, Feiffer says, is that there would have been no revolution and Russia would have happily lived ever after, under the Democratic rule of the Constituent Assembly.  I strongly disagree.  First off, it is clear by July 1917 at the latest that Russia faced a military defeat, which would have a devastating effect on both the legitimacy of any government and on the economy.  Second, it is clear, as one can see from the work of William Rosenberg and Lars T. Lih, that the Russian economy faced by 1917 a severe economic crisis that not simply made the government unpopular, but clearly unravelled the links between the state and the larger society.  Third, it is clear from the works of Wildman, Rosenberg, Koenker, Mandel, Figes and many others that the outbursts of peasant, worker and soldier protest were not something that could simply be turned off by stopping the Bolsheviks.  In fact, it is clear that the Bolsheviks benefited from a wave of spontaneous protest, and that this radicalism benefited Lenin's position against his more moderate colleagues.  After all, for most of the four months before the Revolution Lenin was in hiding, yet the state still fell apart without his direct assistance.  Fourth, Oliver Radkey pointed out decades ago that the Constituent Assembly lacked a stable majority and that had it not been summarily dismissed by Lenin, the Socialist Revolutionary Party (a rural populist party) would have split into its left, right, and Ukrainian wings.  Fifth, Russia would still have been torn apart by national conflict, while representatives of the old order would still have tried to overthrow a socialist government, no matter how moderate it was.<br />So if you really want to look at a good counterfactual about the civil war, try reading Steven Hahn's 1990 article in the American Historical review.  Likewise there are better books one could read on the possibilities of the cold war than the uninspiring essay on Henry Wallace written by the uninspiring biographer of Acheson, James Chace. Fundamentally, this is a book of counterfactuals, which doesn't take the historiography seriously.	2001-10-22
US	52562171	R2KRR9BGQHM5MX	0805065873	873819894	One Palestine, Complete: Jews and Arabs Under the British Mandate	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A thoughtful work of journalism	Tom Segev is a leading Israeli journalist and his book examines British and Zionist archives along with a wealth of memoir literature to produce this history of Mandate Palestine.  Segev asserts the interesting thesis that contrary to much Israeli belief that the British were anti-Zionist and anti-Jewish, their presence was consistently pro-Zionist and they were pro-Zionist because they subscribed to the anti-Semitic belief that the Jews had a powerful, sinister and secret influence over the world. What can we say about this book?  Personally, I have doubts about the second half of the thesis.  Segev does quote some interesting comments from prominent British politicians that wildly exaggerate Jewish power. But considering that Britain was responsible for regulating much of the world in the twenties and thirties and that in most places the Jewish presence was irrelevant I think Segev overstates his thesis.  It would be more accurate to say that Jewish influence was overestimated only when the British dealt with the relatively peripheral question of Palestine.  <br />Another weakness of Segev's account is his journalistic background.  There are endless anecdotes, many of them interesting, from British officials, local politicians, victims on both sides, civilians from other countries who have made Palestine their home.  There is less systematic analysis of such matters as basic politics, economics, ideology or religion.  Larger questions of sociology are not dealt with.  Several times Segev notes that only three out of ten Arab children went to school, as a substitute for a more systematic, if less journalistic analysis, of Arab culture.  There is also the odd proportioning of the book.  The book is more than half over until we reach the end of the first decade.  The second decades gets 149 pages, and the third 73 pages.  The history of the Israeli war of independence is only briefly discussed.  <br />Despite a slow start, this is a book worth reading.  It shows a picture in which neither the British, nor the Arabs, nor the Jews come out looking very well.  The British presence was essential to the success of the Zionist enterprise.  And despite comparisons of Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin to Haman, most Jews had cordial relations with the British government to the final days, and vice versa.  (One of the British government's last acts was to grant fourteen and a half thousand dollars to Hebrew University).  Nevertheless, the British did have a tendency to winge and complain over the results of what were essentially their own double-dealing.  Sometimes these degenerated into bigoted little rants against either or both Jews or Arabs.  Two incidents stand out in this book.  In one Anthony Eden forced a ship full of illegal immigrants out to sea after deceiving the cabinet about its seaworthiness, which led to the ship sinking and 800 lives lost.  The second incident contains the British support for the Arab educational system.  There has been much loose talk among conservatives about imposing empire on Afghanistan and Iraq.  But during the Mandate the British did little, since expanding education would have cost money, and besides it would spoil &quot;traditional&quot; peasants and cause a kerfuffle.  So much for the liberating modernity of imperialism, which clearly does not balance out the use of torture, collective punishment and arbitrary execution that marked the supression of the 1937 Arab revolt.  Arab leaders also do not come out well.  Not only does the infamous Mufti of Jerusalem come out as a pro-Nazi, but he also appears rather incompetent in his disingenuousness and dilatory nature. (There is an amusing anecdote in which the Mufti meets with Hitler, who nearly calls off the meeting because the Mufti and most Arabs would expect coffee with such a meeting.  Hitler hated coffee, and once he was calmed down, the Mufti had to be satisfied with lemonade).  More tragic is the story of Khalil al-Sakakini, an Arab intellectual who at the beginning of the book helps a Jew hide from the Ottomans and at the end is writing bloodless, callous, insensitive comments on the Holocaust and the Palestinian hope that Hitler might help them out of their dilemma.  On the other hand, Segev points out that the fact that most Jews survived the horrible massacre at Hebron in the late twenties was because their Arab neighbors protected them, a record that is better than most European countries.<br />And finally of course, there is the record of the Zionists, of Weizmann and Ben-Gurion.  Despite talk of benefiting both communities, Segev shows that this talk was largely rhetoric.  By the late thirties many Zionists talked increasingly of a &quot;transfer&quot; of the Arab population, never less than two-thirds of the population during the period, which would not be the result of free consent.  Some may legitimately argue that Segev concentrates too much on Jewish chauvinism.  After all, one may not like the assorted bullyings of the Hebrew language police, but the result did turn a ritual language unused for centuries into a living language with an already impressive body of literature behind it.  On the other hand, mutual demagoguery over religious sites and Zionist propaganda lamenting the marriages of Jewish women and British soldiers quite properly leave a sour taste in the mouth.  One of the most interesting things in Segev's account is how he refutes the idea that if only free immigration to Palestine had been allowed, the Jews of Europe could have been saved from Hitler.  Given the fact that Palestine only had 2 million people in 1947 and only a third of them were Jews, the economy could hardly have absorbed them all at once.  This was why Weizmann in the late thirties supported allowing 75,000 Jews a year to come to Israel, which would have saved less than 5% of Hitler's victims before the Holocaust started.  (This assumes, of course, that the Jews wanted to leave Europe, and having left ,wanted to go to Palestine).  Clearly this a work with considerable relevance to today's headlines.	2001-10-17
US	52562171	R2083AIDSL4CBG	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	2	58	115	N	N	Mediocre	Victor Davis Hanson has written one of those books, which gives military history a bad name among historians.  While serious, thoughtful, intelligent, provocative, even tragic monographs are ignored among the public, it appears that any mediocrity can slap a few ruminations about Gettysburg or D-Day and make a bestseller.  To be fair Mr. Hanson is a well reputed professor of Classics and he has written extensively on military affairs.  But this popular book shows many of the weaknesses of military history.  It suffers, for a start, from a monomaniacal thesis, what Matt Groening once called &quot;The Nation that Controls Magnesium controls the Universe&quot; syndrome.  Looking at eight battles from the Greek victory over the Persians at Salamis, to the defeat of Tet Offensive, Hanson announces a bold reason for the supremacy of the Western world.  The West, and only the West, has developed a uniquely powerful military combination that has triumphed over all others.  Whereas others suggest the West's supremacy over the rest of the planet rose in the last two or three centuries, Hanson looks back to the fifth century BC.  Although it is not entirely clear in Hanson's account whether this supremacy is the cause or effect of western triumph, there is clearly some articulation between its essentially liberal and capitalist values and its triumphant militarism.  In the west, the combination of &quot;Civic Militarism&quot; with a uniquely thorough, ruthless and vicious style of warfare has led to victory after victory.<br />Well, while obviously the West would not have triumphed if it did not have military superiority, Hanson's superficiality soon becomes clear.  &quot;Civic militarism&quot; has some kind of strange continuity that moves from Athenian municipal democracy to Roman oligarchy to Dark Ages Chaos to Feudal Europe down to the present day.  If &quot;civic militarism&quot; is so powerful, why was Machiavelli so unsuccessful in promoting it in Florence (and why wasFlorence so unsuccessful in promoting it in Italy, or Italy in 16th century Europe)?  Capitalism is dated back anachronistically to the early Greeks.  Dealing with the great Muslim conquests that would seem to have deprived Europe of clear military superiority for about a millennium, Hanson comments that the Arabs were most successful in those parts of the Roman empire that weren't &quot;really&quot; western.  This would apparently include Greece, under Ottoman rule for about half of the last millennium.  The comparison with China, the key area of discussion in Why Did the West Triumph? debate, is brief and superficial, and the fact that much of the West's military technology, from stirrup to gunpowder, came form China is continually elided.  (No mention of Kenneth Pomeranz or Joseph Needham here)  When the non-West triumphs over the West it is simply because they copied Western technology and practice.  From this book you'd think Europe invented base ten arithmetic and algebra.  And it is hard to see &quot;Civic militarism&quot; playing much of a role in the single most important battle of this century, Kursk.  There is also a tendency for Hanson to vigorously denounce alternative arguments, only to incorporate them later in his account (particularly in discussing the Spanish conquest of the Aztecs, and the role of native help and disease).  So Hanson's account comes down to the argument that civic militarism always won, except when it didn't.<br />I cant say I particularly care for the sneering reference to Jared Diamond.   But the most irritating chapter is the final one on Tet.  Basically, Hansons view is that of the Republican Right, the defeated generals and the revisionists that the United States won the military battle on Tet, but lost the war thanks to a deceitful media, whining and traitorous intellectuals, and a muddled political and military strategy that failed to smash the North Vietnamese.   That this view is widely popular does not alterthe fact that it is wrong.  First, off the battle of Tet did not take a few weeks, it took a year and a half before the NLF was decisively defeated.  And a couple of years later they were on the road to revival.  Second, the American problem in the Vietnam war was not so much an inability to defeat the NLF or the North whenever they met in open combat; it was the political failure of the Southern government that required consistent American aid all the time, and the consequent inability of the South to defend itself despite having large military superiority until the very final weeks.  Hanson adds nothing new to this and his own comments are glib and shallow.   He suggests the United States should have invaded the North in 1965 and glibly dismisses the prospect of Chinese intervention.  Yet as Edwin Moise and other scholars have pointed out, Chinese intervention was a real possibility, not an idle threat.  And one does not find in National Review  in 1965 consistent support for massive escalation.   Hanson rather airily suggests that perhaps the United States should not have been involved at all, though he spends much of the chapter denouncing those who pointed that out.  He sneers at those who complain about the hundred or so who were murdered at My Lai, when in fact close to 500 were murdered there (and the perpetrators got off almost scot free).  He all but calls Peter Arnett a liar on little more than the word of the fearlessly dishonest American military public relations regime. He conscripts Fortunate Son and Born in the USA as pro-war songs, and in his scapegoating of the media he ignores William Hammonds and Daniel Hallins books which shows how long the media gave the government the benefit of the doubt.  I think this chapter is crucial.  It shows that even Hansons hindsight isnt 20	2001-09-29
US	52562171	R1RG7O2QQMDX3	0375413383	836557265	Political Fictions	Books	4	49	51	N	N	The vain, the unprincipled and the sinister meet their match	There is a general consensus about the Joan Didion style:  cold, nervous, cutting, superior, carefully penetrating.  It is not a style good for writing novels, but much better for writing essays.  And this collection of essays collected from the New York Review of Books shows this style at her best.  If she lacks the empathy or the compassion to be a truly great novelist, here her style really does work on a target that so well deserves it; the essentially hollow and selfish world that is American politics.<br />Didion has always had a sharp gift for observation.  Who can forget her account of the Reagans at communion during the 1980 campaign?  (Despite their ostentatious Christianity, the Reagans rarely attended church.  So when they had to go to mass for PR purposes Nancy told her husband to just follow her example.  When she accidentally dropped her wafer into the Communion Wine, Ronald did as well.)  Who can forget her description of George Bush the first's tour of the Middle East in the mid-eighties?  (In an attempt to peer bold and courageous, he had a photo opportunity in Jordan looking out with the Jordanian army at &quot;enemy territory,&quot; which happened to be Israel.)   This collection of essays looks at the 1988 campaign, then on to the 1992 campaign, the rise of Newt Gingrich, the emptiness of Bob Woodward, Dinesh D'Souza's book on Ronald Reagan, the Lewinsky affair, and the moralism of the 2000 campaign.  Rather revealingly, we have Didion talking in 1988 to Madeline Albright, at the time a Dukakis foreign policy expert.  Albright argued against a &quot;no first use&quot; policy of nuclear weapons on the grounds that without out the Soviet army would overrun Europe.  Didion's contemporary comment (&quot;she was talking about a world that had not turned since 1948') would be triumphantly vindicated over the next 15 months.  <br />There are many other stimulating details.  We learn of how Clinton the candidate falsely accused Senator Tsongas of beinganti-Israel, and Governor Brown of being anti-abotion.  Her description of the 1992 convention is an excellent preview of all the nervous opportunism of the next eight years.  Didion's style is understated, it allows people to condemn themselves out of their own mouths, while its cumulative effect slowly increases.  And so we learn how Newt Gingrich has been inspired by both Jefferson and Tom Clancy, De Tocqueville and Zen and the Art of Archery.  We read about Gingrich's excessive love for silly lists (5 Pilars of American Civilization, 7 key concepts and 9 leading principles of Personal Strength, 3 key concepts of Entreprenurial Free Enterprise, Five Enemies of Entreprenurial Free Enterprise, and so one), as his belief that de Tocqueville was somehow an American.  The pieces on Bob Woodward, Dinesh D'Souza and Michael Isikoff all show her strengths.  Her account of D'Souza's hero-worshipping account of the invasion of Grenada is superb:  she deflates D'Souza's breathlessness by reminding everyone that the invasion &quot;entailed landing six thousand marines and airborne rangers on an island significantly smaller than Barbados.&quot;  She also points out that the medals awarded exceeded the actual number of combatants, while pointing out that D'Souza lets slip that Reagan was closer to Oliver North than he let on.  Her discussion of the Lewinsky affair shows the essentially bogus quality of Clinton's opponents.  (And how could Michael Isikoff have missed the fact that Linda Tripp had previously testified in four previous investigations-Filegate, Travelgate, the Foster suicide,  Whitewater-like a regular Titus Oates?) <br />Behind all this is the everpresent mediocrity of American political discourse.  We see the complacency, the triteness and the incapacity for critical thought of the American media.  We note the cavalier discussion of issues while half the American electorate does not vote.  We see the shrill moralism of the American right, with bathetic references to &quot;If&quot; and the Saint Crispin's Day Speech and their contempt for Aemricans as most people show themselves to be amazingly uninterested in the Lewinsky affair.  The concluding essay on the 2000 election gives one of the best explanations for Gore's failure.  When economic models predicted he should have won easily, Gore and his running mate Lieberman adapted an empty moralistic rhetoric that did nothing to attract the non-voting public. At the same this moralism fought the election on the Republicans grounds, with &quot;compassionate conservatism&quot; meaning little more than non-Clintonian adultery.  As we ready ourselves for war, it is now more urgent than ever before to read a work which already has a bead on the hollow rhetoric of &quot;bi-partisan consensus&quot; politics.	2001-09-20
US	52562171	R3KK4QMRCJAJD8	0691011737	99316659	After the End of Art: Contemporary Art and the Pale of History	Books	4	43	43	N	N	Stimulating	What does Arthur Danto mean by his title &quot;After the End of Art&quot;?   He starts off his stimulating,  if rather repetitive book, by discussing the German art historian Hans Belting's book The Image Before the End of Art.  That book discusses the history of devotional images and icons before 1400 AD, and how they were produced primarily as icons, and not as art per se.  It was only with the beginning of the renaissance that images became part of what could be described as an aesthetic ideology.  In the opinion of Vasari and others art, in particular painting, can be seen as a progressive narrative which progresses towards mimesis, or imitation.  After the invention of the photograph, accurate imitation became less of a value, and the progressive virtue of this narrative became one of &quot;shape, surface, pigment, and the like as defining painting in its purity.&quot;  The climax of this ideology came in the great, flawed, critic Clement Greenberg's championing of the abstract expressionism of Jackson Pollock.  But as abstract expressionism exhausted itself in the early sixties, one could no longer define art as a progressive narrative.  To use Danto's example, one could no longer produce a theory of art which would disqualify Andy Warhol's Brillo Box as a work of art.  Therefore, everything could be a work of art.  &quot;Art&quot; or the old &quot;artistic ideology&quot; was dead.  There is such a thing as art, says Danto, and there is an inherent essence in it, but it is vastly wider than the progressive  development ideology that had previously existed.<br />At the same time, says Danto, one must take a historicist approach.  Very simply, &quot;Manyof the artworks (cave paintings, fetishes, altar pieces) were made in times and places when people had no concept of art to speak of, since they interpreted art in terms of their other beliefs.&quot;  Danto goes on to discuss how much art of the present day would not have been considered art in the past. He provides some interesting aspects of this historical anomaly.   For example there is the 19th century artist Anselm Feuerbach who painted a grand, academically precise picture, the sort that would soon by overtaken by impressionism, of a scene from Plato's Symposium.  But he made a mistake in his meticulously accurate historical reconstruction.  He includes a painting in the background which portrays Xenophon's variation on the same events.  The problem is that the painting is not in the style of a fifth century BC Greek painting.  Danto goes on to discuss the inevitable failure of the Vermeer forger Hans Van Meegeren, how Russell Connor combined Picasso's Les demoiselles d'Avignon and Ruben's Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus, and finally ends up with &quot;America's Most Wanted&quot; the painting the Russian artists Komar and Melamid painted after conducting an elaborate opinion poll.<br />One should be aware of the many criticisms that have been made of this thesis.  For example, there is the ironyof having a narrative which amounts to the end of narrative.   And as Terry Eagleton sourly puts it &quot;if art these days is a realm without rules, it is so, among other reasons, because there is not really that much at stake. If art mattered socially and politically, rather than just economically, it is unlikely that we would be quite so nonchalant about what qualified for the title.&quot;  One should also read Perry Anderson's The Origins of Postmodernity for another perspective on the postmodernist moment.   Still, this is an important book, and one should pay particular attention to Danto's chapter on the nature of monochrome art.  There is also a nuanced chapter on museums and the conflict between them as purveyors of the beautiful and the artistic and the possibilities of anti-museum based community art.  There are also discussions of Kant, Heidegger and particularly Hegel; amusingly enough, the last thing in the book is a caricature of Danto showing a Brillo Box toa disconcerted Hegel.	2001-09-16
US	52562171	R16XIF87G8XQ6Y	069104984X	907920356	American Crucible: Race and Nation in the Twentieth Century.	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Good, but not exceptional	This book looks at two kinds of nationalism. The first is an exclusionary racial nationalism, the second is a more inclusive civic nationalism. This dichotomy has recently developed in the scholarship of nationalism. What Gary Gerstle valuably points out is that much of the genuinely &quot;civic&quot; nationalism also had strong &quot;racial&quot; restrictions. Gerstle looks at such examples as Theodore Roosevelt, the opponents of immigration restriction in the twenties, and many radicals and New Dealers in the thirties. He points out that while they wished to integrate Jews and Southern/Eastern Europeans, they were often contemptuous of African and Asian Americans.  Most interesting here is his discussion of the thirties; on the one hand this was an era of considerable advancement for non-WASP whites given the Roosevelt patronage machine and the rise of the CIO.  On the other hand Jews, Communists and many others anglicized their names, labor unions invoked images of native-born farmers as opposed to their foreign-born immigrant constituencies. <br />Gerstle does provide some more interesting examples to support his dichotomy. It is grimly interesting to learn that Martin Dies, the first Red Scare politician, called for the deportation of Japanese Americans. There is the story of Superman, created by two Jews, the story of an alien who passes as an ordinary Wasp. There are some interesting comments about Frank Capra and Dorothea Lange, and there is the interesting suggestion that the segregated army in the second world war isolated African-Americans from the general sense of male comraderie.  It is interesting to point out that Italian American director Frank Capra's Mr. Deeds Comes to Town portrays a New York inhabited entirely by Protestants.  He is well aware of recent scholarship by people such ad David Roediger, Alexander Saxton, Noel Ignatiev and Theodore Allen that asks why non-WASP Americans from Celtic, Eastern and Southern Europe are viewed as fellow &quot;white&quot; citizens when for much of American history they could have been denounced as Catholic proletarian scum.<br />But on the whole this book has some problems. Much of it has a padded feel as we have reasonable, somewhat conventional accounts of Progressivism, the first world war, Herbert Hoover, the New Deal, McCarthyism. There is little here that is actually new. (There is little new archival evidence, beyond some moving letters in which African-Americans almost beg an indifferent authority for the right to fight for their country). I agree with Gerstle's pessimistic conclusion that the civil rights era was bound to end in disappointment because white Americans were not willing to pay the price for integration. But simply discussing the story of the 1964 Democratic convention, and the ruminations of X and Carmichael do not take us far enough. Gerstle, better known as a social historian, should have used considerably more of that here. Over the past decade Gary Gerstle has published a number of articles which promises to take a new look at the acculturation of immigrants in American society and to look at such concepts as racism, multiculturalism and nationalism. Looking at this book one finds that there is to be a companion volume which looks at the political incorporation of immigrants. One can only hope that book shows more research and a greater profundity.	2001-09-14
US	52562171	R24F86RC1J67GP	0195146603	2582519	Ornamentalism: How the British Saw Their Empire	Books	4	15	23	N	N	The discreet charm of the aristocratic historian.	Monarchs and aristocrats are not very pleasant people. Rulers like Wilhelm II, Victor Emmanuel III and Hirohito have all played their part of making their country safe for fascism and dictatorship. Even the British ruling house are not a nice lot; more often than not they are philistine, reactionary and unimaginative. But the historian of aristocracy-AH, there's a different subject altogether. David Cannadine in his various books and collections of essays have portrayed in subtle, mordant detail the world of the declining aristocracy. Whether it is discussing the inability of Winston Churchill to get off the London Metro, or George V's inordinate admiration for shooting small birds and collecting stamps; whether it is the fact the George VI had one of the five greatest art collections on the planet but was too dull to appreciate it, or whether it is how the British monarchy moved from the amateurish funerals of George IV and William IV to the top notch rituals of the Late Victorian era, Cannadine provides a humorous sceptical eye on the world of monarchist kitsch.<br />Cannadine's latest book is fundamentally flawed, but it is based on wide reading, is gracefully written and contains many fascinating details. The book has been advertised as a new approach to understanding empire: instead of it being based, as Edward Said supposedly argues, on racial hierarchy, it was really based on class superiority. Actually Cannadine argues that class &quot;was as important as (perhaps more important than?)&quot; race. And so Cannadine discusses how in the &quot;white dominions&quot; the British sought to ensure strong governor generals, aristocratic upper houses, and elaborate new orders. We go to India where the British treat the hundred or so princely states with elaborate tact and generosity. We see the British working with local princes and rules from Fiji to Malaya to Zanzibar to Ghana. In the twenties and thirties we see the British prop up new quasi-independent monarchiesin Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. All over the world we see among the British officials and the local rulers the world of the countryhouse, the fox hunt and the cricket match. Naturally enough this imperial order was obsessed with giving itself honors and glories, such as the Irish Lord Dufferin, who eventually got a &quot;proper&quot; English peerage, as well as the governor generalship of Canada, the viceroy of India and the knighthoods of six separate orders. There are no fewer than six Lake Victorias, while cities and towns and every conceivable form of geological and geographical body was christened after the queen from British Columbia to Belize to Rhodesia. <br />This effusion of monarchist kitsch is very interesting, but what is its larger significance? Cannadine himself has to admit that despite their endless appetite for royalist cant, conservatives in Canada and Australia never gave their aristocrats more than an ornamental position. He also admits that in the &quot;white dominions,&quot; including South Africa, there was no pretence of any arrangement with the indigenous population, who were dispossessed and disinherited. He also agrees that the British exaggerated the effects of caste, that many local rulers were venal puppets. But the major flaw with Cannadine's argument is that Said and his colleagues will not fit into Cannadine's misleading race/class dichotomy. Said focuses as much on religious, technocratic and Zionist prejudices as much as race. And as Barbara Fields has pointed out in two brilliant essays (which Cannadine has mysteriously ignored) &quot;racism&quot; is not something separate from class. After all, what unites the subordinate status of African-Americans in pre-1865 law is not their skin colour, which varies considerably, but the fact that they are almost all slaves, ex-slaves or the descendants of slaves. The development of racist ideology cannot be viewed separately from the class struggles of the past. As Fields puts it,the English were not enslaved in the 17th century because they benefited from centuries of previous struggles. By contrast Africans could claim no such benefit. Racist ideology is as much a mutation of class ideology than it is an alternative.<br />And so larger questions of the effect of Britain on their colonies and the effect of colonialism on British life and society are not really developed. In order to do that, we would have to look at the overwhelming colonial majority, not the small elites that the British flattered. And we would have to look at racial ideologies, the economic impact of empire, and the &quot;wages of whiteness.&quot; Some imperialists may have preferred the &quot;stability&quot; and &quot;organic&quot; nature of colonial India. But most Englishmen viewed this stability as stagnation and treated Hinduism and Islam with contempt. Why else would the British churches concentrate so much on missionaries? And Cannadine makes no mention of miscegenation, a taboo that has been a theme of Forster and Scott and many others. The British may have admired their puppet monarchies in the Middle East. But the most important effect of their mandates was, as Tom Segev has pointed out, to insure the formation of Israel, whose socialist and nationalist ideology was as far from Ornamentalism as one could get. Edward VII, as Prince of Wales, may have stood up for the King of Hawaii, but that did not prevent the King's sister from being overthrown in a vulgar coup by the Americans. There are some errors in the book. Kwame Nkrumah was not a Marxist, South Yemen was not a Soviet satellite, and Canadine refers to &quot;pre-1776&quot; Ontario when he obviously means &quot;post-1776&quot;. The ending, however, is interesting as Cannadine discusses what the empire meant during his childhood, less a home of racial others than as an abstraction of power that was slowly dissipating away into irrelevance.	2001-09-09
US	52562171	R2KC3P4JCTH8YP	0670894745	125371552	Night of Stone: Death and Memory in Twentieth-Century Russia	Books	4	23	26	N	N	&quot;the blood that lies beyond any death,&quot;	This is a book that is painful to read, but what it deals with is far more important than the reader's discomfort. This is a book that deals with Russia's experience of death. But of course, what it deals with is the Russian experience with terror and mass murder. Starting off with the rather depresssing and miserable Tsarist state, Russians descended first into the inferno of the first world war, then into the massacres, famine, diseases and cannibalism of the revolutionary civil war. After a bit of a breather, it would then descend into the brutality and famines of collectivization and famine, then the purges and the Gulag, into the final frozen wastelands of the second world war. The climb up Mount Purgatory has been a slow one, and there is no guarantee that anyone will reach the garden at the top where virtuous pagans can go no further. Merridale brings a number of virtues to this account. First, she has read widely and taken care to read the most recent literature (the separate totals of collectivization, famine, purge and gulag have seven digits, not eight). Moreover she has a fine eye for detail. Some are fascinating, such as the fact that Stalin's son spent his infant years in a special nursery designed to be run on Freudian principles. We read stories of the grotesque shortage of graves in 1919 Leningrad, and the pathetically unsuccessful attempts to build a crematorium to deal with the corpses. As an example of Soviet kitsch, we read of popular (and rather tasteless) suggestions for a pantheon in Stalin's memory. There are the relatively small details of Stalinist cruelty, such as the fact that postwar invalids were swept off the streets in order to encourage a fatuous optimism, or the absence of drugs and anaesthetic to ease the pain of dying cancer patients, or the general contempt for mental patients. There are tales of people living through the famine or the purges apparently unaware of its existence, people who still now believe that the myriads of political prisoners were guilty of something, relatives of prisoners denouncing or abandoning their families. More important, though, is Merridale's subtlety and intelligence. The ambiguity is noted early on (&quot;All sides--Reds, Whites, Greens, anarchists (Blacks), and nationalists-- used terror, including the mass slaughter of vilians, as part of their political and military strategy). Early on, she notes old popular traditions which suggest a somewhat callous attitude towards the death of one's children. Yet other traditions say too much grief harms the escaping soul, that tears might bind its soul to the earth forever. Merridale seeks to challenge the idea that the Russians were simply brutalized. She seeks to suggest a more subtle idea of trauma, an idea which is resisted by much of the postSoviet psychiatric profession and indeed by many of the victims she interviews. One problem, of course, is the problem of collective memory in a society that has not allowed it to remember. She notes that there is some evidence that the victims of the Stalinist famine of 1932-33 in Khazakstan no longer remember it, because their society has changed so much. Many monologues seem to have a scripted character, &quot;often generality, chunks of Solzhenitsyn, rumor, snatches from the Book of Revelation...&quot; When people claim they were always religious, or nationalist or anti-communist one cannot take them at their word. One of the most depressing elements of this book is sickening and consistent sense of ambiguity and responsiblity, the way so many people were both victims and exectutioners. There are few reservations one should make about this book. Merridale does at one point confuse the coronation of Nicholas II with the 300th anniversary of the Romanovs. More important, this is very much a book about Russian suffering. Anti-Semitism is also a constant theme, and there are passages about the Ukraine, the annexed Baltic countries, and the 1988 Armenian earthquake. On the other hand, the &quot;Muslim&quot; countries in the far East make almost no appearance, even though they made up at least a fifth of the old Soviet Union. In the later chapters the language shows the strain of dealing with such material without lapsing into cliche. There is a tendency to view the (Orthodox) religious beliefs as a salutary resistance to totalitarianism. Yet at other times, Merridale notes that much of the faith has a retroactive profession, and she notes a Bishop and a former Jew make anti-semitic remarks. The hope for a proper sense of memory to help create a viable democracy appears hollow. How could it be otherwise when much of the post-Soviet elite's objection to Communism was that it produced less to steal than capitalism? How could it be otherwise when Orthodoxy only commemorates its own dead, but cannot find the words to condemn the butchers of Sbrenicia? But in the end Merridale is left with the silence of the dead, &quot;I cannot make it any clearer, and I do not think I have come home.&quot;	2001-08-28
US	52562171	R366KNP0E1GYG4	0802083471	815863590	The Limits of Rural Capitalism: Family, Culture, and Markets in Montcalm, Manitoba, 1870-1940	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A leading example of Canadian rural history	One of the weaknesses of Canadian historiography is the way that history, political science and economics tend to be separated.  There is less of the interdisciplinary approach which has done so much to benefit Anglo-American historiography since the sixties.  As a consequence much analysis of economics and political science is confined by the abstractions of those disciplines, while much history tends to have a &quot;high politics&quot; or even frankly patriotic character.  This has particularly hurt the study of rural history, where most Canadians lived before the second world war. Sylvester's monograph seeks to look more closely at the rural countryside.  His book starts off promisingly by noting how American historiography has paid increasing attention to questions of how capitalist the countryside was.  Sylvester looks at the francophone community of Montcalm, Manitoba, and he emphasizes that one cannot assume that the Canadian prairie was born capitalist.  Instead the limits of rural capitalism persisted well into the twentieth century.  He then goes on to helpfully discuss such matters as the demographics of prairie life, the limits of credit and commercial diversification, and how inheritance practices subtly changed as farmers sought to benefit their children while Montcalm society became more commercialized and less egalitarian.<br />All this is useful, but one wishes for more.  There is not the kind of detail one finds in Christopher Clark's The Roots of Rural Capitalism, or Steven Hahn's The Roots of Southern Populism.  Whereas class was central to these books, especially Hahn's, class and the details of commercialization are given much less focus.  On questions like mutuality and common property there is almost nothing.  More could have been said about divisions within the community; Sylvester prefers to concentrate on the family.  More could have been said about gender:  the most interesting role women play in Sylvester's account is when they inherit as wives.  Indeed, there is rather little on capitalism per se, except to say that as long as most people were farmers they were not fully capitalist.  A comparative account might lead one to suggest that in many ways 1880 Manitoba was clearly more capitalist that an 1880 Georgia struggling over the legacy of slavery.  There is also surprisingly little on politics; there is a brief account of an election squabble in 1878 that led to bloodshed, but there is nothing on Progressivism, or the two party system, and next to nothing about rural registration.  There is not much here about conflict at all. Considering that scholars such as Hahn, David Szatmary, Alan Taylor and Charles Sellars have seen &quot;subsistence culture&quot; as crucial to the rise of Jeffersonian and Jacksonian democracy, as well as later protest movements, the absence of such a discussion in Sylvester's account is striking.  There are some comments on Catholicism and francophone identity, and there is a brief mention that most farmers did not appreciate the classical pretensions of francophone newspapers editors.  There are some tantalizing accounts of francophone reaction to the first and second world wars, which seem to suggest a more national and anti-Petainiste attitude than one might have thought.  But usually Catholicism and identity are taken for granted.  Rather revealingly, when Sylvester talks about emigration to Winnipeg, he concentrates on the businesses that francophones formed, and not in their roles in unions or political parties.  Much of the book is based on court records, and this unfortunately leads to a rather dry tone.  Clearly, Canadian rural history is in no danger of running out of questions to answer.	2001-08-19
US	52562171	R2SJK4ZDE1N98K	0684849682	295161322	No Peace, No Honor: Nixon, Kissinger, and Betrayal in Vietnam	Books	2	44	60	N	N	Better books have been written on the topic.	The story that Larry Berman tells of Nixon-Kissinger diplomacy is a familiar and unpleasant one.  Just before the 1968 election the Nixon campaign contacted President General Thieu of South Vietnam.  In returning for Thieu opposing peace talks that had just started, and subsequently ruining Hubert Humphrey's election chances, Nixon and Kissinger promised him a better deal.  Four years later Kissinger, while keeping Thieu largely in the dark, finally came up with an agreement in October 1972.  The Americans would withdraw, American prisoners of war would be returned, the North Vietnamese army would allow to keep troops in the south, and instead of being the sole government of South Vietnam, Thieu would now have to share this with the National Liberation Front (NLF).  Thieu was extremely upset about this and in order to appease his feelings the United States claimed, falsely, that the North was trying to seek major changes in the agreement.  They bombed the North (the infamous &quot;Christmas Bombings&quot;), returned to the negotiating table, made token changes to the agreement, and falsely proclaimed &quot;peace with honor&quot; in January 1973.<br />Much of this has already been well known, and has been detailed by such writers as Gareth Porter, Seymour Hersh and most recently Jeffrey Kimball in Nixon's Vietnam War.  Berman argues something new however.  Nixon and Kissinger claimed that they had won a viable agreement which was undermined by Watergate.  The collapse of presidential authority let a cowardly Congress ruin their farsighted policy and allow the North to win.  By contrast, their many critics claim that Nixon and Kissinger had obtained nothing but a &quot;decent interval,&quot; allowing them to extricate themselves knowing that the North would conquer them in a few years.<br />Berman, by contrast, argues that what Nixon and Kissinger really wanted was a peace agreement that they knew the North would violate.  Once they did they could invoke American airpower aggressively and continually until the end of Nixon's term.  The agreement was nothing but a sham, only a necessary stage in producing what would be a new Gulf of Tonkin resolution.  I am skeptical about this argument.  First off, it only really appears in the last 100 pages of the book.  The statements that Berman cites from Nixon, Kissinger and Haig can be interpreted in a variety of ways.  It could be self-delusion, especially on Nixon's part.  It could be simple belligerence designed to buck up their south east Asian allies and their own anti-communist beliefs.<br />The second weakness with the argument arises from the deal itself.  The United States had already conceded a Northern military presence in the South, the essential unity of the country, and some form of NLF presence in the government.  Given these concessions it would be tricky to argue that the North had broken them and then get from Congress the blank cheque to attack them.  Even more problematic was the fact that the United States and the South also violated the agreement.  Thieu had no interest in any kind of national reconciliation, and Berman himself admits that the United States violated the agreement by transferring bases to the South.  Berman also notes that neither Kissinger nor Thieu wished to free the thousands of political prisoners in the South.  The key point is that if both Thieu and Nixon violated the agreement, they could not reasonably expect to mobilize Congressional support when the North did.  <br />There are other weaknesses in Berman's book.  The book is poorly annotated, which becomes increasingly irritating as one goes further into the books and where one wonders what the source of Berman's statements are.  It is really appalling that publishers are allowed to show such contempt for endnotes and footnotes.  Berman does have access to new documents, but there is a tendency to overquote them.  This gives the book a &quot;cut and paste&quot; tendency.  Most serious of allis Berman's treatment of the military situation and his attitude towards the Thieu regime.  It is less South Vietnam, let alone Vietnam, but the Thieu regime who is viewed as betrayed.  Berman's book insinuates that by withdrawing on these terms, Nixon and Kissinger doomed Thieu to inevitable conquest.<br />Thieu's defeat was probably inevitable, but not for the reasons that Berman suggests.  He quotes the right wing critics of the deal, like Admirals Zumwalt and Moorer and Ambassador Negroponte. But he does not explain why Vietnamization failed to rebuild or reinforce the Southern Army.  He does mention that the NLF rallied remarkably after the 1972 Easter Offensive (other scholars think they rallied even earlier) but he says little more about them.  But as Arnold Isaacs pointed out in his invaluable Without Honor, the South Vietnamese Army always had enough arms to defend itself.  Before the final offensive it had the third largest navy in the world and it had twice as many tanks as its enemies.  As late as 1974 when already guerilla forces were weakening it, it outshot the enemy by a margin of 60 to 1.  What the ARVN lacked of course, was an army with leaders who were honest or competent or courageous (anyone of these qualities would have worked) and an infantry who were willing to fight for their causes.  For this failure Thieu was especially responsible, as were for that matter his disgruntled and belligerent countrymen.	2001-08-16
US	52562171	R4ST2RKYN40S0	185984782X	192748439	Ehud's Dagger: Class Struggle in the English Revolution	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Somewhat eccentric, worth 3.4 stars	This is a somewhat eccentric book.  It is by an English professor and it wishes to counter the anti-Marxist consensus that has grown up around the origins of the English revolution.  The book comes in two parts.  The first discusses the revisionist historiography of the English Revolution, the Foucault-New Historicist influences on literary criticism, and Marxist revisions of the theory of class struggle.  The second part looks at five special aspects of the revolution:  the supporters of the assasin of the Duke of Buckingham, the praxis of the New Model Army, a female prophet named Anna Trapnel, a supporter of tyrannicide named Edward Sexby, and Gerrard Winstanely and the Diggers. <br />The first, smaller part is the more useful.  Holstun makes some telling points against the revisionists, such as the way they define pre-revolutionary ideology so broadly that any opposition to the king before 1640 can be defined out of existence.  Because no one broke absolutely with the views of the past, we can supposedly argue that none broke at all. He notes the way revisionists euphemize Stuart censorship, how they crudely psychoanalyze revolutionaries or reduce their concerns to envy, and how they describe the English revolution as a &quot;war of three kingdoms&quot; &quot;instead of complex societies in a structured hierarchy dominated by England.&quot;  In his critique of the New Historicists Holstun aptly focuses on their obsession with power, on the grotesque or barbaric gesture (such as the execution of Damiens).  His defence of Class Struggle is also interesting, though less original in his reservations about the base and superstructure model.  Sartre, rather unusually, serves as an inspiration and there is some interesting criticisms of Habermas.<br />The second part is much more disappointing.  Each of the five chapters concentrates on a series of texts.  Instead of advancing beyond previous Marxist arguments, there is a tendency to simple recapitulate old verities.There is a long summary and paraphrase which becomes increasingly tedious, while there is little new evidence brought forth.  Meanwhile the relationship between the anti-Buckinghamites, the Agitators, Trapnel, Sexby and Winstanley and the larger population is never made clear.  Holstun could have said more, in his discussion of the Agitators, about their suggestions for redistributing land.  The chapter on Trapnel, included in order to bring some discussion of gender, does not succeed in this, since female Fifth Monarchy prophets were very untypical of their sex.  Moreover there is a rather sentimental appreciation of Baptism and Quakerism as radical movements.  He cites E.P. Thompson's The Making of the English Working Class, to emphasize the complex heritage of Dissent.  Yet Thompson's chapter &quot;The Transforming power of the Cross,&quot; emphasizes Methodism's philistinism, its reactionary and sycophantic nature, its hatred of pleasure and curiosity.  Holstun also argues that without the experience of their female prophets Mary Wollstonecraft and her feminism could not have existed.  Perhaps, but the absence of these movements in France did not stop the Marquis de Condorcet and the radical Herbertistes. The chapter on Sexby is actually more nuanced, agreeing that Sexby's anti-Cromwellian pamphlet, Killing no Murder, is still within the Protestant theory of anti-tyrannical writing.  (But one should not forget that the Sexby chapter concludes with some fatuous comments on assasination.) The chapter on Winstanley also provides some useful refutations on Winstanely as a minor, time-bound, envious, totalitarian misogynist.  Ultimately, there is a major problem with tone:  Holstun always finds a radical movement or an inspiring vision from the past.  Ultimately, this optimistic note rings hollow.	2001-08-05
US	52562171	R2JHSJ0UF2R0OC	0375752633	27898886	The Broken Estate: Essays on Literature and Belief (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	54	61	N	N	Portrait of the critic as a young moralist	Whatever happened to the tradition of morally serious criticism most famously exemplified by F.R. Leavis and Lionel Trilling?  What happened to those critics whose essays exemplified what Joseph Epstein has called &quot;gravity&quot;?  Well, in Epstein's case he succumbed to the malevolent ideological miasma of Norman Podhoretz's Commentary.  Leavis' influence declined as a result of his parochialism, his narrow concentration on a few English writers, and his rather hostile and paranoid attitude towards criticism.  As academics concentrated more and more on trying to define what literature, many of the forums for the public intellectual took an increasingly hysterical and demagogic attitude towards modern literary theory.  Given the New York Review of Books' notorious reluctance to attract new talent, and the ideological prejudices of the American right, where is a new critic going to come from?<br />James Wood is one such critic, and to say he is one of the best contributors to the New Republic is not praise enough.  Better to say that he reminds one of the New Republic when it was an honest magazine.  Intelligent, thoughtful, morally serious, his collection does not show all his virtues.  It does not include his witty evisceration of Tom Wolfe's A Man in Full, which demonstrates the difference between a flashy journalist and a real novelist.  A great critic tries to remind us of the unaccountably neglected and the forgotten.  The only essay here which does that is a fine one on the great Norwegian author Knut Hamsun.  (Later essays on Giovanni Verga and Henry Green were written after this book was published.)  Wood grew up in an English evangelical household and gradually lost his faith in God's existence.  The nonconformist attitudes still remain though, with sometimes unhelpful results.  An essay on Thomas More comes close to blaming him for not being a Protestant, and it is based on a dated Protestant historiography of the Reformation that has come under severechallenge from Eamon Duffy, Alexander Walsham and Christopher Haigh.  This moralism leaks into his review of Morrison's Paradise, where he criticizes for being insufficiently judgmental.  <br />But the one essay that is truly unforgivably flawed is &quot;Half Against Flaubert.&quot;  Wood castigates Flaubert for being heartless, unsympathetic, morally empty.  That he could make these judgements without reference to Flaubert's &quot;Three Tales&quot; is absurd.  It would be like discussing Tolstoy without reference to &quot;The Death of Ivan Illych.&quot;  Aside from insinuating that Flaubert is metaphorically guilty of the Catholic and monastic heresy of flagellation, Wood's criticisms of A Sentimental Education is singularly obtuse.  He cites Henry James criticism, as if it were obvious that James was Flaubert's superior.  &quot;The only burning question of Sentimental Education is whether Frederic is going to have sex with his various lovers.&quot;  No, the burning question is whether there is Frederic Moreau's life and anything in Orleanist and Second Empire France that can preserve him from being suffocated by a heartless conservative mediocrity.  Reading this essay in the New Republic I was struck by the fact that this journal was one that looked like it has been edited by A Sentimental Education's cast.  It certainaly has more of its share of Naive Moreaus, ruthlessly fashionably Roques, fanatical turncoat Seneschals and unsuccessful opportunistic Deslauriers.  To say that Moreau is &quot;bland&quot; misses the point.  Many people are, and many more are made that way by the world.  At one point Wood praises the moral intelligence of Jane Austen and praises' James' creation of Gilbert Osmond as a truly evil character.  In contrast to Flaubert, cannot one say that James and Austen rig the sentiments slightly?  Would we feel that Osmond was so evil is he had not married someone as unusually beautiful and sensitive as Isabel Archer?     <br />Otherwise, what we do have here are a collection of interesting and thoughtful essays.  D.H. Lawrence is given a sympathetic hearing which helps counter the view that he drowned his gifts in a lunatic, misogynistic quasi-fascism.  Gogol, Chekhov and Roth's Sabbath's Theatre are all intelligently appreciated.  George Steiner, Thomas Pynchon, Don DeLillo and Toni Morrison are all intelligently criticized, a virtue to be appreciated when many of Wood's colleagues at the New Republic and the New Criterion would simply castigate them for having opinions more liberal than Madeline Albright.  For those who think John Updike can never be castigated enough, they will find witty confirmation from Wood. (&quot;Sex exists for Updike as grass does, or the metallic sheen of an air-conditioning unit.  This is not philosophical at all, but a rather boring paganism, which finds the same degree of sensuality in everything.&quot;)	2001-07-19
US	52562171	R6PMKQEIBR4TT	0804731942	96139622	Deepening Democracy?: The Modern Left and Social Movements in Chile and Peru	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Welcome to the world of post-democratic electoralism	Over the past two decades democratic governments have spread over the world. The Turkish coup in 1980 appears in retrospect to have been the last of its kind in Europe. While the seventies had marked some important victories for democracy (in Spain, Portugal and Greece) it also faced some major setbacks (in Chile, Argentina, Uruguay). In 1982 and 1983 with the return of consitutional government in Brazil and Argentina, democracy increasingly gained momentum. One victory followed another: the Phillipines in 1986, South Korea in 1987, Pakistan in 1988, the liberation of Eastern Europe in 1989, peace in Central America and the victory of Patricio Aylwin in Chile in 1990, the return to multiparty government in much of Africa, the recognition of the PLO in 1993, the election of Nelson Mandela in 1994. Even Iran has a quasi-parliamentary government, even China has multicandidate local elections. <br />But something is missing. Why is it that the old cliches about voting (&quot;If voting could things it would be abolished&quot;) and choice (&quot;In New Hampshire your house can be any colour you want, as long as it is white&quot;) have such resonance? Why does it appear that as the number of democracies increase, the actual options they have decrease? This is the subject of Roberts' important book on the fate of the Chilean and Peruvian left. Although somewhat repetitive and poorly written Roberts presents an important account of the problems facing democracy today.<br />Roberts' title refers to the idea of &quot;deepening democracy.&quot; Instead of imposing the autocratic and ultimately inefficient state socialisms of the past, many Latin American leftists looked to more grassroots and localized decision-making. Such decision making would be healthier than the clientist approach of many previous Latin American populists. At the same time they sought to create a strategy that would not concentrate in classic Marxist fashion on the industrial working-class, historically arelatively small portion of the Latin American population. Instead they would concentrate on new popular movements (women, environmental, leftist Christians, local, etc) to supplement their base. In turn they would also remove their utopian and Leninist illusions of the past which encouraged them to undervalue Liberal Democracy and which encouraged a polarization that led to their defeat.<br />So far, so good, but the results, as Roberts shows, is very depressing. The savagery of the Pinochet years shattered the traditional trade union movements, industrial base, and what peasant base the left had. The result was a powerful atomization that limited the capacity of the left to get popular support.  Of course, Pinochet ensured that the new constitutional order would leave the army's privileges intact and give the Right special bonuses.  Moderate Socialist intellectuals theorized about how &quot;deepening democracy&quot; might serve as a substitute for attempts to abolish capitalism outright. In practice, however, they favored a policy of compromise with moderate centrists. Fearing that an aggressive, or even moderately principled position, would encourage the right to support a return to dictatorship, the moderate Left did nothing to encourage or mobilize the grassroots for a more radical democracy. It could provide little help to a shattered trade union movement. Instead political life has been demobilized, with political life confined to elections and the rather atomistic and limited viewpoint it fosters. At the same time the once strong Chilean Communist Party has not moved beyond the limits of a Vanguard Leninist strategy which hampers mobilizing the Chilean population.<br />Even more distressing is the situation in Peru, where the United Left got a third of the vote in the mid-eighties and at one point seemed to be about to win the presidency. But in a brilliant chapter Roberts shows how it all fell apart. The union movement and much of the hard work the Left hadput into organizing the shantytowns of Lima collapsed in the late 1980s when the economy collapsed. At the same time the terrorist Sendero Luminiso encouraged popular fear and panic while brutally attacking the Democratic Left's institutions. Meanwhile the United Left became divided between its moderate and leftist forces. &quot;Indeed, the moderate and radical agendas were mutually negating: the electoralism of Barrantes marginalized and diffused the grass-roots organs of popular power that were integral to the PUM's strategy, while its radical demands polarized the political arena in ways that made it impossible for Barrantes to perform an integrative role.&quot; Economic disaster shattered the grassroots groups and it also put the political institutions of the country into contempt, so both radical and moderate approaches failed. Instead into the vacuum appeared Alberto Fujimori who established an authoritarian regime occasionally vindicated by elections. Roberts concludes that &quot;democracy is not served by self-containment, it thrives on deep social roots, a broad base of support, and a capacity to adapt to changing circumstances and newly emerging social pressures, all of which require a participatory civil society.&quot; Instead of a vibrant democracy we get an emasculated one, with consequences to be felt far into the future. Maybe forever.	2001-07-09
US	52562171	R1ZY945H51QCAG	1565846532	824900877	A People's History of the American Revolution: How Common People Shaped the Fight for Independence (New Press People's History)	Books	3	61	83	N	N	Perhaps worth 2.6 stars	This is the first in a series of a books guided by renowned left-wing historian Howard Zinn which seek to tell the people's history of the various eras of American History.  And there is a real need for a synthesis of left-wing scholarship on the American Revolution to contrast with the excessively military focus of Robert Middlekauf's The Glorious Cause, and Gordon Wood's The Radicalism of the American Revolution.  This book, unfortunately, is not it.  It has little original research, largely consisting of a few contemporary newspapers, and it is heavily reliant on a few works of scholarship.  More important, the focus is limited.  That Raphael did not feel the need to provide a narrative of the American Revolution from the Stamp Act Crisis to the ratification of the American Constitution is his privilege.  Instead, he has separate chapters on rebels, soldiers, women, loyalists and pacifists, Native Americans and African Americans.  We have many anecdotes of the difficult struggles these people had, and it is noteworthy that Raphael emphasizes female passivity and unenthusiasm and provides a sympathetic picture of the loyalist and pacifist minority. I think the one useful thing I learned from this book was that John Adams' oft-cited quotation that a third of Americans were pro-revolution, a third were against it and a third were neutral was not made about the American Revolution, but the French one. But there is a lack of real analysis.  Many of the anecdotes go on and on, giving the book a cut and paste feel.<br />Moreover there is the rather bland populism of the conclusion (&quot;The people of the Revolution had become players.&quot; The rather bland and pompous liturgy on p. 301 starting &quot;People make history, complex human beings from varying circumstances who pull together, drive apart, and interact in countless ways.&quot;)  It reminds of what is missing in this account.  There is no real discussion of the Revolution's origins, nor is there much on the economy.  There is no engagement with Michael Merrill's argument that the American colonies were not really capitalist at all, nor with Timothy Breen's theory that the revolution marked the triumph of a consumerist revolution.  What were the living standards of the people before the revolution, or after it?  How did they live?  What was the economic impact of the Revolution?  There is little or nothing on ideology.  The whole question of republicanism and the sprouting of democratic theory, the concurrent rise of abolitionism and an explicitly racist logic to slavery, there is no clear discussion of these issues.  There is scandalously little on religion.  The largest discussion deals with the pacifist sects whose opposition to war put them in conflict with the revolutionary authorities.  But once again there is nothing on popular religiosity and popular indifference.  While there is much on struggle and conflict, there is little on politics, on political organization or such political questions as civil liberties.  Finally, there is not enough on the consequences of the revolution.  Was the revolution ultimately conservative?  Was the revolution sui generis, or part of an unfolding modernity? Was it comparable to the French Revolution or was it fundamentally dissimilar?  Again, Raphael provides no answers and we have to ask ourselves whether this series of People's History is going to collapse into a sentimental populism.	2001-06-26
US	52562171	R2QVH9DTGF6X3Y	0691057028	197162123	Making Sense of War	Books	4	11	13	N	N	An important uneven work.	More than one in eight Soviets died during the second world war. That this was an incredibly traumatic event has been apparent to all for decades. But what did this experience mean to the post-war Soviet Union in terms of its ideology, its guiding principles and its ultimate fate? In this book Amir Weiner argues that most historians have paid little attention to this question. Concentrating on the Vinnytsia region in the Ukraine, Weiner argues that the war was key to a new burst of Communist fanaticism, that it appeared as a vindicating Armageddon. It reinforced the Soviet's excisionary policies, its totalitarian quest for purity, its increasing belief that its enemies were irredeemable. In the first part he looks at how the Soviets emphasized military service in the post-war party and purged it of the passive and the non-combatant. In the second party Weiner emphasizes the Soviet obsession with purity by looking at first the campaign against Ukrainian nationalists, then the Jews. In the final part he discusses the failure of the Ukrainian Nationalists to convince their compatriots to follow them, and how in the postwar period the idea of a &quot;Soviet Ukraine&quot; got general acceptance. <br />The result is an important, uneven, book. The best part of the book is the third part in which Weiner discusses the failure of Ukrainian nationalists and the internalization and triumph among Eastern Ukrainians of a Soviet Ukraine nationalism. The pages on Ukrainian Integral Nationalism are grimly amusing as nationalist intellectuals appear wildly out of their depth demanding ethnic cleansing and permanent strife against Russians, Jews, and Poles. (In May and June 1943 several thousand Poles were murdered in the Rivne region alone. The Poles soon responded in kind.)  Also interesting is the disillusion of the nationalists as Eastern Ukrainians did not come up to their expectations.  Ukrainians in the pre-1939 Soviet Union did not share the nationalist's hatred for Russians,did not define themselves as Ukrainians oppressed by Russians, became increasingly less and less religious, and notwithstanding the horrors of the famine in 1932-1933 were not even unequivocally opposed to collective farms.  (The Nationalists ended up arguing that what should be done with the collective should be left to the peasants.)  There follows a nuanced account of the Holocaust in the Ukraine, which shows the spectrum from assistance to anti-Semitism in a context of merciless terror.  This leads to the final chapter in which Weiner discusses how Ukrainians internalized Soviet ideology in the context of a Soviet Ukraine nation.  Trying to discuss Soviet popular opinion as opposed to Soviet government propaganda about that opinion is not easy.  Weiner's account is not perfect, but it is fruitful.  There is a discussion of the iconography of the liberated Ukraine.  There is a less successful attempt to discuss popular reaction to the Doctor's Plot from a sample of 40 letters to Pravda.  But there is also the surprisingly glum accounts from nationalist intellectuals, and there are interesting samples from emigres (in one sample 83% of former collective farm workers supported state control of heavy industry.) <br />One problem is Weiner's emphasis on ideology. His approach meets the marriage of more traditional anti-Communists such as Martin Malia, and the more post-modern approaches of Stephen Kotkin, with his debt to Foucault. Weiner is intrigued with the concept of &quot;the gardening state&quot; (the term is Zygmaunt Bauman's) and he plans to publish a collection of essays on this topic. The totalitarian and proto-totalitarian regime is called the gardening state because it treats its racial, class and political opponents like weeds. Weiner and Bauman treats this as an expression of modernity and the Enlightenment.  Here one has reservations. That modernity has a dark side one cannot deny, but one can trace ethnic cleansing back to the last gasps of the Tsarist and Ottoman empires. Alexander II was responsible for the massacre of perhaps hundreds of thousands of conquered tribesmen in the 1860s. And what about slavery? American slavery was far more successful in eradicating its victim's religious beliefs than Stalin, yet slavery was both pre-and post Enlightenment, crucially influenced by the Liberal Enlightenment of Jefferson and the authoritarian Burkeanism of Calhoun. <br />Another problem is that Weiner's emphasis on ideological purity papers awkwardly over the many actual ambiguities he so skillfully relates. At one point he argues that Soviet ideology had even fewer inhibitions than Himmler did in his infamous Posen speech, though in fact one can find all sorts of reservations in private Soviet debates. (See the recent biography of Romanian communist Anna Pauker for her reservations about collectivization for example. And there is of course the Secret Speech.) Perhaps the key weakness of this approach can be found in the chapter on anti-Semitism. Weiner notes the ambiguities, the fact that the Soviets publicized Nazi atrocities against Jews, that Jews received their fair share of decorations, that they were not specifically purged from the party in the immediate post-war period, and that the Soviet Union took a militant stand against eugenics and other biological paradigms. He also notes the well known facts of increasing post-war anti-Semitism: the refusal to specifically refer to Jewish suffering, the Doctor's Plot, the widespread and quite false belief that the Jews had spent the war safely behind line, the talk of deporting the Jews to Siberia. What he does not explain is why this occurred. Is it popular anti-Semitism, Stalin's personal prejudices, spite of the upwardly mobile towards the literate and urban minority in their midst? Weiner does not really explain this ambiguity and emphasis on ideological purity only hides the problem.  (He also does not discuss the extent to which Soviet Jews internalized Stalinist ideology.) Still Weiner's approach is an improvement on the us vs. them approach of earlier studies of totalitarianism.  The comparative insights of the gardening state, eugenics, and ethnic cleansing really are helpful and should be complemented nicely by Terry Martin's upcoming An Affirmative Action Empire.	2001-06-22
US	52562171	R1SXWJ2BMOI6D7	0679735127	512291929	Landscape And Memory	Books	3	91	117	N	N	All very well, but does it have a point?	This is an interesting book, which contains the hallmarks of the Schama style:  lavish illustration, copious use of physical detail, an apparently novelistic style of sustained anecdotage.  What this book is missing is a thesis, beyond the rather vague idea that nature is part of our culture and that this should leave one to be slightly more optimistic about our ecological problems.  At the end Schama quotes Thoreau &quot;It is in vain to dream of a wildness distant from ourselves.&quot;  Consider the first section of the book, Wood.  Schama tells us that as a child he loved Rudyard Kipling's Puck of Pook's Hill.  He wanders around rural Poland and remembers Isaac Deutscher's bitter comment &quot;Trees have roots, Jews have legs.&quot;  He enjoys the taste of Bison, discusses 18th century debates over forestry management in Poland and the exact species of Bison.  We learn of Polish nationalists writing in the 19th century about the glories of wooded liberty (as well as a Polish plan to from a Polish-Jewish-Ottoman brigade to fight the Russians during the Crimean war).  We learn that Goring liked to have a pot of diamonds near him at all times so he could enjoy the thrill of running his hands through them, and we also learn how the mad Russian Emperor Paul was killed with a malachite paperweight.  <br />As you can see Schama has a tendency to wander, and while the reading can sometimes be interesting, trying to learn anything particularly useful or reading it straight through is not going to be very instructive.  So we go on about Tacitus's presentation of the Ancient Germans and then on to how German nationalists exploited this myth to sinister purposes.  In the meantime we have interesting accounts of the painters Albrecht Altdorfer, Caspar David Friedrich and the post-Nazi Anselm Kiefer.  As the book goes on it appears to be an only vaguely connected series of essays, one on Robin Hood and the English myth of free forests, another on Bernini's Fountain of the FourRivers.  There is a not particularly relevant sub-section of Walter Raleigh and a more relevant one on the plumbing of Versailes.   Then its on to Mountains, the making of Mount Rushmore and the development of the European love affair with climbing them.  The final section, &quot;Arcadia Redeisgned,&quot; deals with attempts to recreate a better designed Arcadia.  And so the reader looks at the painting of Poussin, the plans of Rene de Giradin and Claude Francois Denecourt, the London Zoo and Central Park, and finally discusses Thoreau.  But most readers I suspect will conclude that this book is less than the sum of its parts.  The emphasis on art and the anecdotes around great individuals is not really a substitute for a more systematic ecological and historical anaylsis.  One thinks as an alternative, of Peter McPhee's useful article in the most recent French Historical Studies about the French Revolutionary peasantry and how they dealt with deforestation.  The sense of memory as somehow mitigating the aura of ecological crisis is rather vague, and what we have is nothing more than a nice coffee table book.  One gets the sense of being a tourist around European history, being informed by an eloquent, articulate, amusing but ultimately superficial travel guide.	2001-06-09
US	52562171	R1C798VVYCYBJE	0679726101	169597856	Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution	Books	3	323	384	N	N	Very well written, but ultimately unconvincing	This is a popular work of history, and it is easy to see why.  1) Schama has a wonderful eye for anecdote, starting with the tale of the plaster elephant at the site of the Bastille, to how Talleyrand could not conduct a proper mass to save his life, to how Lafayette tried to escape from the Austrians and all too typically failed.  2) The book is lavishly illustrated with many compelling contemporary images.  Not only do we see the passion for science in chandeliers resembling Montgolfier balloons, but we see the patriotic enthusiasm in revolutionary coffee cups and the revolutionary calendar.  We are also blessed with Schama's skill as an art historian.  Everyone recognizes David's The Oath of the Horatii, but how many now the bloodthirsty conclusion to the tale?  Schama does, and this helps his point about the sanguinary and murderous side with the obsession with classical virtue.  3) Schama is a very effective writer, and few will be able to read his accounts of the September Massacres or the suppression of the Vendee or the execution of the Malesherbes family during the terror without a shudder of revulsion.  Moreover he is capable of discussing a wide variety of topics, whether it is the nature of the fiscal crisis of the Bourbon monarchy or the cultural construction of the citizen.  4) In contrast to Richard Pipes' The Russian Revolution, Schama is able to consult the most recent literature to support his attack on the French revolution.  He cites Chaussinand-Nogaret on the progressive, entrepreneurial and capitalist nature of the aristocracy.  He builds on Darnton to emphasize the pornographic libels against Marie Antoinette.  He builds on the Anglo-American empiricists like Behrens and Doyle to attack the idea of a bourgeois revolution, and the ideological emphasis of Furet and Baker to argue that 1789 was merely the Terror with a lower death count.  5) The result is a work with a compelling thesis, that the Ancien Regime was in many ways a progressive regime, advancing towards capitalism, abolishing torture and increasing toleration for Protestants.  Unfortunately bad luck and ideological fanaticism caused the revolution to go wildly off course, ending in a disaster of massacre, bloodshed and ruin.<br />So what's wrong with the book?  1) Well, anecdote can be misleading.  At one point in order to emphasize the Convention's proto-totalitarian nature he points to their discussion of a deputy's plans to take children away from their parents so that they could be educated by the state.  But Isser Woloch and Jean-Pierre Gross have shown that this particular discussion was more an act of respect to the deputy, who had recently been assassinated, than a serious proposal.  Their actual plans for public education were far more moderate and liberal.  And while readers may agree with Schama that it is of great symbolic importance that the great painter Delacroix was fathered by Talleyrand, Delacroix's most recent biographer, Barthelmy Jobert strongly argues that it didn't happen.  2) Schama's emphasis on culture and ideology as the winds that smashed the revolution against the rocks are full of problems.  American revolutionaries also cited classical antiquity with apparently no ill effects.  The two most famous sayings of the American Revolution, &quot;Give me liberty or give me death,&quot; &quot;I regret that I only have one life to give to my country,&quot; both come from Addison's Cato.   Can it really be said that everyone lost their heads over Rousseau, when his admirers, like the Masons and the quasi-Protestant Jansenists, split both ways when the revolution came?  3)  It is one thing to quote recent scholarship.  But other recent scholarship strongly points out the problems with Schama's account.  Gwynne Lewis has pointed out that the nobility cannot really be said to be as capitalist and entrepreneurial as Schama believes.  Timothy Tackett has pointed out that the revolutionary deputies were not so besotted with abstract ideology as revisionists believe, while the nobility's deputies were richer, of older lineage, and more Catholic and less liberal than Schama would lead us to believe.  Alan Spitzer has pointed out that the evidence of a fundamental fiscal crisis cannot be so easily disposed with.  He also points out that one reason why foreign trade collapsed so heavily in the 1790s was because so much of it depended on slavery, which the Convention abolished.  Barry Shapiro has pointed out that counter-revolutionary plots were not a paranoid delusion, and that the revolutionary government in its first years had a moderate and responsible attitude towards them.  Paul Spagnoli has pointed out that the revolutionary decades saw a clear increase in life expectancy which was not matched in the rest of Europe.  Allan Kulikoff has pointed out that the American republic took decades to recover from its own brutal war of American independence.  4) Schama's basic position is elitist and shallow.  He equates progress with unregulated markets, views popular movements for democracy with contempt and suspicion and enthuses over a forward looking bureaucracy/elite which could have solved France's problems if political discussion had not gotten in the way.  One should point out that Spain, Italy, Germany and Japan have tried this path to the modern state, and they ended up with fascism.  Russia tried this path and the State collapsed so badly that only Lenin's Bolsheviks could pick up the pieces.  If we are to praise this neo-Burkean vision of the Revolution, we should remember that shortly after Burke's own death 50,000 Irish would be slaughtered by the forces of Order, leaving a legacy of rancid sectarianism for future centuries.	2001-05-25
US	52562171	R26C8JUWO17PYU	0198206089	36136688	Radical Enlightenment: Philosophy and the Making of Modernity 1650-1750	Books	4	157	163	N	N	How Spinoza liberated the world	Israel's book offers a valuable new perspective on the nature of the Enlightenment.  Instead of concentrating on England or France, Israel looks at all of Europe.  There is considerable attention paid not only to the Netherlands, Israel's main area of expertise as a historian, but also to Spain, Portugal, Italy, the many German states and Scandinavia.  Nor is this emphasis undeserved, since the Dutch Republic was the home of Spinoza, Sweden the home of Linnaeus, and Italy the home of Vico.  Only two areas receive little attention.  One is Russia, under the grip of Tsarist despotism.  The other is the future United States, which were arguably peripheral to the intellectual life of the West before 1750.  Israel argues that the Enlightenment can be seen as a construct and a conflict between four major forces.  The first is Cartesianism, the second Newton-Lockean ideas, the third the Leibnitzian synthesis, and the fourth, and the main subject of this book, the Radical Enlightenment around Spinoza.  The main theme of this book is that Spinoza's ideas, and the debates around them were central to the development of the Enlightenment.<br />Israel's perspective is an unusual one.  His book ends in 1750 and therefore only briefly discusses much of what people popularly consider the Enlightenment.  Diderot gets only a few pages, and Rousseau and Voltaire get even less.  The Scottish Enlightenment is not mentioned at all, and Hume is barely mentioned.  Israel's concentration is on the critique of religion; it is this ultimately successful challenge that he considers the Enlightenment's major achievement.  As a consequence other areas get less attention.  It is Locke the theorist against innate ideas and the ambiguous believe in miracles that Israel concentrates on, not so much the constitutional theorist.  The development of history, of economics, of many of the sciences are downplayed in this account.  The liberation of women is discussed only briefly and the question of slavery is discussed even less.  Many questions that have concerned intellectual history over the past few decades are dealt with only cursorily.  One would have to go elsewhere to find out what were the links between the Enlightenment and the French Revolution, what was the relationship between religion, magic and the rise of science, and what was the popular mentality of the time?  Likewise questions about the potential dark side of modernity, why Enlightenment arose at this particular time in history, or the origins of pornography will have to be looked at elsewhere.<br />Nevertheless this book makes a valuable contribution.  First off it demonstrates Spinoza's importance to the rise of the Enlightenment as his pantheism, materialism and determinism became the major challenge that other philosphers had to face.  There is also some tantalizing evidence that Spinoza's ideas were making greater popular headway in the Netherlands than one might have thought.  Second, it provides copious accounts of the many debates and discussions in intellectual life that other accounts tend to ignore.  Many accounts concentrate on the &quot;great men,&quot; while Straussian accounts tend to drastically oversimplify intellectual debates.  By discussing such thinkers as Fontenelle and his debunking of classical oracles, Bekker on the death of the devil, the many Dutch thinkers who helped to propagate Spinoza's ideas one gets a fuller picture of the Enlightenment's progress.  Third, Israel's book is full of many valuable insights.  Israel is particularly good on how Spinoza's theory of toleration is more liberal than that of Locke's.  He also shows how the &quot;moderate&quot; enlightenment consistently supported the censorship of their radical opponents.  He is also good on the fundamental modernity of Vico, as well as on the limited influence Locke and Newton had on the continent before the 1730s.  All in all, this is an important book.	2001-05-22
US	52562171	REMD2GZGT6MCJ	0156011166	109580155	A Journey to the End of the Millennium - A Novel of the Middle Ages	Books	2	14	18	N	N	A brilliant novelist produces a mediocre book.	A.B. Yehoshua has produced some of the greatest novels of the last quarter of the twentieth century.  This, however, is not one of them.  Taking place near the end of the first millennium, it deals with the culture clash between Mediterranean Sephardic Jews and Northern European Ashkenazi Jews.  A few decades before the events of this book take place the latter banned polygamy while the former still allowed it.  A quarrel arises between Ben Attar, the Sephardic merchant who is the protagonist of this book and who has two wives, and the wife of his nephew who lives in Northern Europe.  She wants the business partnership between the uncle and nephew repudiated because of Ben Attar's polygamy.  Ben Attar thus travels to Northern Europe with a Spanish rabbi to argue the case for polygamy.<br />Yehoshua's previous works such as A Late Divorce and Mr. Mani showed him to be master a dialogue and interior monologue.  In this book, however, he has deliberately eschewed those methods.  Instead what we have is sentence after sentence, each one embroidered with several subordinate and dependant clauses.  Unfortunately these sentences are not rich in imagery, like those in Garcia Marquez or Herman Broch.  They are not wittily allusive like the narrators in Jose Saramago.  Nor are they finely nuanced and subtle like Henry James.  Nor are they the objective correlative of some psychological state, the way the endless sentences in The Autumn of the Patriarch are the correlative of a vicious and endless dicatorship.  They just seem to be a literary exercise, ultimately artificial, like stories which always exclude the letter &quot;e&quot;.  There is a therefore a considerable loss in psychological depth and acuity, with no corresponding gain in literary craftmanship and form.   Judge for yourself from the following sentences:  &quot;When Master Levitas felt that his usually firm hand was trembling slightly under the burning books coming from behind the fine veils, he allowed himselfto blush a little and to smile shyly into his little beard, before hastily drawing out of his folds of his robe a red leather-bound prayerbook in Amram Gaon's edition, which he wanted to compare with the one in Ben Attar's bag, which turned out to be in the edition by Saadia Gaon.&quot;  &quot;But the dripping of the rain on the canvas cover gave him no rest, and fetched him out of his bed to see whether the Ishmaelite wagoners required more covering.&quot;  And could go on, but why should Yehoshua bother?<br />But style is only the least of Yehoshua's problems.  There is a vaguely comedic and erotic tone to the book, which is not helped by the herds of subordinate clauses, nor by the fact that Yehoshua has never really demonstrated a fine sense of humour.  There's nothing worse than a ponderous sex farce.  And there is a pervading obviousness about much of the book.  The rabbi's son eats pork and becomes ill, a black slave is seduced by three European women, by chance the party wonders through Verdun and the Somme 917 years before they became World War one bloodbaths.  And one should point out the sex scenes which for Yehoshua's sake one can only hope will soon be forgotten.  Nor is the message of the book very thoughtful, since it amounts to saying that sex is generally a good idea and is unavoidable.  Only in the last third of the book, where one of the characters becomes seriously ill does a sense of gravitas belatedly return.  But by then it is too late to save the novel.	2001-05-13
US	52562171	R2CPXXRYIF1IIX	0195130278	416352995	The South Vs. The South: How Anti-Confederate Southerners Shaped the Course of the Civil War	Books	3	54	65	N	N	Worth two and a half stars, useful for general readers.	William Freehling's book argues that one of the key reasons for the defeat of the American South was that it was internally divided amongst itself.  It could therefore not fully raise the measure of support needed to ward off the stronger North, even given the rather awkward and men-consuming strategy the North produced.  This is a plausible thesis, and it is an accurate one, and general readers will find it useful to study.<br />Specialized readers, however, are likely to be disappointed.  Much of the recent discussion of the divided south concentrates on the views of rural whites within the Confederacy.  This is not where Freehling concentrates.  Instead he deals with the much more obvious fact that the border states of Maryland, Missouri, Kentucky and Delaware did not join the Confederacy, and the 150,000 Black Southerners who joined the Union army.  With the 200,000 border state Union soldiers, and the 100,000 whites from the Confederacy proper, a third of all Southerners fought for the Union in the Civil War.<br />This is all well and good, but it is also rather obvious.  The fact that the Border South did not join the Confederacy was after all startlingly clear at the time, and has been clear to all historians since then.  There was a time when the African-American contribution to the war and to the slaves' own liberation was ignored, but for the last four decades that has been clearly rectified.  Freehling does little more here than quote such established scholars as Leon Litwack, Benjamin Quarles, the documentation provided by Ira Berlin and his colleagues, and the unpublished dissertation of the late Armstead Robinson.  <br />Moreover, much of the work has a padded feel, as Freehling fills space discussing well known battles.  He argues that runaways slaves were a major threat to its survival, though its not clear whether it was their flight or the fact that the South irritated the North by demanding illiberal Fugitive Slave Laws.  Whether discussing what he considers Lincoln's equivocal and cold attitudes towards slaves, or whether slaves could have been mobilized for the Confederacy, Freehling does not really advance the discussion on these issues.  At the end he argues that contrary to some scholars, there was little danger that the British would intervene to help the south, or that General McClellan would have agreed to an independent Confederacy if he had been elected President in 1864, or that a viable campaign of guerilla warfare could have been launched in 1865.  These views are probably correct, but one wishes that Freehling could have provided more evidence to support them.	2001-05-09
US	52562171	R1VJLLL4G8OSDD	0815730411	661820295	Detente and Confrontation: American-Soviet Relations from Nixon to Reagan, revised edition	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Dryreading, but invaluable.	This book is a bit dry, but it is an invaluable discussion of its subject, Soviet-American diplomacy in the seventies.  Garthoff was a diplomat at the time, and his account is based on a wide reading of all availabe sources.  Although neither side was as imaginative or informed or as sensitive as they should have been, Garthoff presents a compelling case that the United States was responsible for botching the opportunities for peace in this period.  The case is even more compelling because Garthoff is so moderate and quiet in his argument.  Much of the debate on detente has been confined to the Republican party, and to those Democrats who supported Republican policy.  According to this limited debate, supporters of Ronald Reagan criticized the supporters of Nixon and Kissinger for their unduly idealistic view of a rapprochment with the Soviets.  Naturally Nixon and Kissinger argued that their view was the height of realism.  A slightly different version of this debate would be held in the Carter administration as national security adviser Zbigniew Brezezinski criticized Secretary of State Cyrus Vance while neoconservatives damned Carter as an appeaser.<br />With the possible exception of Vance these arguments were wrong from beginning to end.  If Nixon and Kissinger ever believed that Russia could be a &quot;normal power,&quot; they overreacted and panicked whenever the Soviet Union sought, like a normal power, to expand its influence.  Out of spite towards Indira Gandhi and warped realpolitik, Kissinger and Nixon deluded themselves that India, with Soviet encouragement, was going to attack Pakistan while the latter was slaughtering Bangladeshis.  In fact the opposite happened (and Pakistan lost).  Garthoff shows how Kissinger and Nixon paid insufficient attention to the technicalities of the arms race, so the number of nuclear arms boomed in the aftermath of SALT I.  Garthoff's account of the Yom Kippur war, in which Nixon was in a drunken haze and Kissinger brought the world to the brink of war because he panicked and incorrectly thought the Russians were going to intervene, is, as they say, worth the price of the book itself.    <br />Similar problems occured in Angola, Yemen, Ethiopa and Afghanistan.  Essentially knowing nothing about these countries, many Americans viewed them as part of a cunning Soviet plot to expand its influence.  In fact Communist agression was exagerrated (as in Yemen), or the Communists were not the aggressive party (as in Ethiopia's war with Somalia).  Americans saw the brutal Soviet invasion of Afghanistan as part of a cunning plot to seize the world's oil reserves, when in fact it was a strictly local response to the incompetence of the Afghani party.  (Who in turn had come to power almost by accident.  They had reacted to a crackdown by the military government and found themselves in power.)  Garthoff's account of these countries is especially detailed and well-informed.<br />By the 1980 election conservatives had claimed that there was a window of vulnerability and that the Soviet Union could conceivably defeat the United States in a first strike.  This was, as Garthoff shows, a fantasy.  Most American missiles were not even in landed silos, and a far greater percentage of Russian missiles were.  Even if the best possible Soviet scenario, they could not reasonably expect to destroy more than a fifth of the US arsenal.  By contrast, the Americans in the worst scenario could threaten to destroy two-fifths of the Russian one.  Garthoff's book ends in an atmosphere of fear and ignorance.  One should read his sequel, The Great Transition, to read how the World got out of this mess.	2001-05-04
US	52562171	RMKE54FUONNFB	0679783431	236970665	Subject to Debate: Sense and Dissents on Women, Politics, and Culture (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Arguably the best columnist in the United States today	This collection of Pollitt's columns for The Nation shows all her virtues:  her considerable wit, her intelligence, her ability to present feminist views in a clear and coherent manner.  She has a keen eye for the media's fatuities; its tendency to split the difference and to move to the stronger side, its fear that it will be viewed as too liberal, the fact that most journalists and columnists are male which does not prevent them from whining about how powerful feminists are.<br />Consider these thoughts on the perniciousness of sports:  &quot;Fans say athletics promote values and so they do--the wrong values, like the childish confusion of physical prowess with `character' that is such a salient feature of the O.J. Simpson trial.  Sports pervert education, draining dollars from academic programs and fostering anti-intellectualism.  They skew the priorities of the young, especially the poor, black young, by offering them the will-o'-the-wisp incentive of a scholarship, physically gifted kids might not be so ready to blow off their schoolwork.  Why not give scholarships for art or music instead?&quot;<br />Or consider this line about funding for the Arts and funding for NASA:  &quot;Representative Sonny Bono says he's never met anyone who benefited from public arts funding; well, I've never met anyone who cares what kind of rocks Mars has.&quot;  How can one not admire a critic who has no patience with the Clintons, but recognizes that Nader's Green Party is a non-starter?  How can one not admire a critic who prefers The Man who Loved Children, Song of Solomon, The Assistant, and Tongo-Bungay to the peculiar list drawn up by the Modern Library?  Everyone should read a woman who castigates the ponderousness of communitarianism, the bile of a Farrakhan, and the shallowness of a Mary Daly.  Everyone should read her, period.	2001-05-02
US	52562171	RG0CMFDHUYJGD	0674004841	439230837	Ancestors: The Loving Family in Old Europe	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Accurate, but poorly argued.	All happy families are alike, or so hopes early modern German historian Steven Ozment in his rispote to such scholars as Philippe Aries, Edward Shorter, and Lawrence Stone.  In contrast to their generally pessimistic view of the pre-modern family as a horribly cruel institution towards women and children, Ozment portrays the family as loving, with respect between spouses and kindness towards children.  Contrary to Aries, early modern and medieval Europeans did not view children just as little adults, but viewed childhood as a series of stages.  Parents were horrified and grief stricken when children died, toys were not a development of the eighteenth century, and infanticide was not as common as people might think.<br />Ozment's account is generally accurate as far as it goes.  And in fact the &quot;modernization&quot; paradigm of extreme pre-modern callousness towards women and children has been challenged directly and indirectly by a wide range of historians such as E.P. Thompson, Eugene Genovese, Herbert Gutman, Martine Segalen, Keith Thomas and John Demos.  Ozment's account is distinguished by being less well argued.  There is a tendency to ignore the harsher side of things.  Arguing against the idea that the Middle Ages was a pestilential hell-hole, Ozment argues that women actually had more opportunities than they would have for centuries to come.  But once those occupations narrowed at the time of the Reformation, Ozment says that wasn't so bad, since women found joy and self-worth in being mothers.  Much of his account relies on the literate urban German middle class, a tiny minority of the population.  There is no mention of &quot;domestic violence&quot; or &quot;wife-beating,&quot; in the index; there is only a brief mention of the subject in which Ozment says society generally disapproved of such violence.  Maybe so, but one can't help recall that the peasant aphorisms quoted in Eugen Weber's Peasants into Frenchmen are a lot more indulgent.  And the workof Anna Clark provides a very different description of wifebeating.  Similarly, Ozment argues that infanticide was probably minimal, but he does not discuss the problem of abandonment, which was often a death sentence for unwanted children.<br />The longest chapter in this brief book is &quot;Parental Advice,&quot; which consists of 16 parents from the 1500s to the early 1900s, from Germany and Britain, offering their useful if somewhat didactic advice.  There is no clear reason or criteria why these 16 were chosen:  listening to the philosopher Hamann or the mathematician Gauss or the Nobel laureate Dehmel criticize their children, one can't help but notice the absence of Frederick the Great's father who punished his disobedient son by executing his best friend in front of his eyes.  And one is remindned of Keith Thomas' injunction that historians should listen not just to parents, but to their children as well.  Near the end of the book Ozment airily dismisses the objection that his sources are unrepresentative by saying that would be like having to drink all the ocean before deciding whether it was salty.  But there is no good reason to doubt the salinity of the ocean worldwide, while one cannot assume that the middle class minority represented the serf and poor peasant majority.  All in all, one could be more convincing.	2001-05-01
US	52562171	R31FDQWRT0WAST	0679761845	463784939	Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime	Books	2	43	96	N	N	Fatally Flawed	The second volume of Richard Pipes' history of the Russian Revolution shares many of the flaws as the first volume:  a refusal to contemplate much recent scholarship, a correspondingly shallow sociological framework, and a complete lack of sympathy not merely for the Bolsheviks, but for the Russians as a whole.  Only when they serve as victims of the Bolsheviks does Pipes profess any sympathy.  Pipes devotes a whole chapter to Lenin's vicious persecution of religion.  Yet one cannot forget Pipes' own comment in Russia Under the Old Regime that Russian Orthodoxy was the most sycophantic and callous of the Christian churches.<br />In discussing this book's weaknesses, three come to mind most strongly.  The first is Pipes' explanation of the Civil War.  According to Pipes although the Bolsheviks had virtually no popularity they were able to maintain control of Russia because they were fortunately centered in the heartlands of Russia's industrial might.  With this centre under control they were able to conquer the rest of what would become the Soviet Union, which they did with appalling cruelty.  Indeed, Pipes goes on to sneer at the Bolsheviks for taking so long and at Trotsky's skill as a military commander.  But this is clearly flawed.  After all, Mao Tse-Tung, Ho Chi Minh, Fidel Castro and no doubt many others had been heavily outnumbered and outgunned.  Yet they still managed to triumph and win.  The Whites were never able to create their own Yenan.  Despite mass poverty, famine and economic collapse within the Red zone, they were never able to create a real war economy in their own areas and appeal to the rest of the country.  The simple fact was that the Whites were too autocratic and dictatorial to mobilize the popular support they needed to win.  Reading Jon Smele's monograph on the fate of Admiral Kolchak brings out their own cruelty and incompetence.  Likewise Geoffrey Swain has lucidly argued that the anti-Bolshevik cause suffered a fatal defeat when the populist SRs were betrayed by the quasi-monarchist whites.  I'm  also not pleased at Pipes' treatment of atrocities.  Pipes of course agrees that they were responsible for most of the pogroms committed against Jews.  But one should point out that they could be quite vicious against Gentiles as well.  And as one might expect from a Commentary contributor Pipes tries to show Woodrow Wilson as unduly soft-hearted and sympathetic towards the Reds.  One should read David Foglesong's book on American intervention to find out what really happened.<br />Second, as a Polish refugee from the Nazi-Soviet pact, Pipes want to show as much as possible the identity of the two dictatorships, and how Leninism was the key inspiration of later totalitarian regimes.  The key flaw in Pipes's approach is his tendentious and partial use of the literature.  He relies on conservative scholars like Renzo De Felice, Ernest Nolte and James Gregor to help argue, among other things, that Mussolini was in many ways a socialist.  By contrast Adrian Lyttleton's seminal work on the Fascist dictatorship and Denis Mack Smith's portrayal of Mussolini's breathtaking opportunism go by completely unmentioned.  In order to emphasize Hitler's radicalism he often cites Herman Rauschning's &quot;memoirs,&quot; yet recent scholars find him unreliable and inaccurate.  Ian Kershaw's recent biography of Hitler does not cite him at all, and in turn Pipes ignores Kershaw's invaluable The Nazi Dictatorship.  Pipes also relies heavily on David Schoenbaum's Hitler's Social Revolution, yet he makes no mention of the many scholars who have heavily qualified Schoenbaum's argument that there was one.  Finally, Pipes quotes Domenico Settimbrini's suggestion that if Russia had been neutral in 1914, Lenin would have been as &quot;interventionist&quot; and militarist as Mussolini was in successfully agitating against Italian neutrality.  In response one should point out that if Russia had been neutral in 1914, there would not have been a world war and there would have been no war for Lenin to intervene in.  Second, if Lenin had supported intervention he would no doubt have been treated by Pipes with much more indulgence.<br />Finally, I can't help but object to Pipes's counter-revolutionary sententiousness.  How else can one explain such fatuous statements that in Marxism, &quot;social antagonism was for the first time accorded moral legitimacy:  hatred...was made into a virtue.&quot;  This incidentally occurs in a chapter where Pipes, while ostentatiously asserting the identity of right and left &quot;extremism,&quot; cites against the Jacobins Pierre Gaxotte, anti-semite, member of Action Francaise, and Vichy's official historian of the French Revolution.  And really one must object to Pipes quote of Karl Popper on the final page:  &quot;Everyone has the right to sacrifice himself for a cause he deems deserving.  No one has the right to sacrifice others or to encite others to sacrifice themselves for an ideal.&quot;  Is it too much to point out that Pipes and Popper cannot believe this?  For a start it would forbid conscription, while &quot;encitement&quot; is an inseparable part of democratic debate.  And from El Salvador to Palestine to Vietnam there has no been end of sacrifices the men of Commentary and Encounter have demanded from desperately poor and miserable people.  Pipes' reputation reflects less on his skill as a historian than on the lock step mentality of conservative journals, and the unwillingness of the New Yorker and the New York Review of Books to challenge them.  One should really turn instead to Catherine Merridale's recent work on Russian mourning and upcoming work by Lars Lih.	2001-04-27
US	52562171	R47UH4S9DN5MH	0521439612	520709704	Nations and Nationalism since 1780: Programme, Myth, Reality (Canto)	Books	5	38	45	N	N	Suberb, arguably Hobsbawm's best single book.	&quot;...no serious historian of nations and nationalism can be a committed political nationalist...Nationalism required too much belief in what is patently not so.  As Renan said: `Getting its history wrong is part of being a nation.'  This bold and principled comment, which is duly qualified in the ellipsis I left out, is near the beginning of one of the most liberating books on modern nationalism.  This is a vital book which puts nationalism into its historical context, and it reminds us of the vital truth that Yugoslavia and Rwanda were not doomed by something called &quot;irreconcilable ethnic strife,&quot; to fall into the hell that the First World has done its part to condemn them to.<br />&quot;The basic characteristic of the nation and everything with it is its modernity.&quot;  Even the very vocabulary of nationality is relatively new.  Especially invaluable is Hobsbawm's chapter on popular proto-nationalism as he discusses all the elements that supposedly &quot;cause&quot; nationalism and finds them all insufficient.  Many Central and Eastern European peasants did not view themselves so much as members of particular nationalities but as peasants.  The term &quot;Estonian&quot; for instance only came into use in the 1860s.  Languages appear stronger, yet dialects were so common up until the late nineteenth century that only half of the French in 1789 spoke the language, while only 2.5% of pre-unification Italy spoke what is now Italian.  Nationalists often had to write their own grammars and dictionaries, and in the process the various Yugoslav groups turned three major dialects into the language we now know as Serbo-Croat.  And where &quot;there are no other languages within earshot, one's own idiom is not so much a group criterion as something that all people have, like legs.&quot;  Ethnicity is not an undisputed concept:  some of the most clearly defined ethnic groups are those like the Scots highlanders, or the Berbers or Afghan Pushtus who are hostile to any state.  Many of the greatest fighters for Greek independence were Albanians, while Hungary's greatest 19th century poet, Petofi, was in fact a Slovak.  Religion has its own ironies:  many of the leaders of the Arab independence movement were Copts, Maronites and other Christians.  Religions try to be universal so often they will separate Lithuanians from Russians, but not from Poles.  The Catholic Church was the only all-Italian institution in 1859, but Italian nationalism had to make its way without it.  Many pre-modern revolts against foreign invaders are less nationalistic than social and religious.  When the citizens of Berlin offered to defend that city, Frederick the Great told them to mind their own business and let professionals handle the job.<br />Hobsbawm goes on to discuss how the modern state in the nineteenth century had its own reasons to encourage patriotism and national consciousness.  He discusses how nationalist movements in Georgia, Armenia and Finland were dominated by socialists.  &quot;What would the future of Hebrew have been, had not the British mandate in 1919 accepted it as one of the three official languages of Palestine, at a time when the number of people speaking Hebrew as an everyday language was less than 20,000?&quot;  After discussing the rise of fascism, the Popular Front and the end of the Cold war, Hobsbawm ends memorably with this image:  &quot;The owl of Minerva which brings wisdom, said Hegel, flies out at dusk.  It is a good sign that it is now circling round nations and nationalism.&quot;to any state.  Many of the greatest fighters for Greek independence were Albanians, while Hungary's greatest 19th century poet, Petofi, was in fact a Slovak.  Religion has its own ironies:  many of the leaders of the Arab independence movement were Copts, Maronites and other Christians.  Religions try to be universal so often they will separate Lithuanians from Russians, but not from Poles.  The Catholic Church was the only all-Italian institution in 1859, but Italian nationalism had to make its way without it.  Many pre-modern revolts against foreign invaders are less nationalistic than social and religious.  When the citizens of Berlin offered to defend that city, Frederick the Great told them to mind their own business and let professionals handle the job.  <br />Hobsbawm goes on to discuss how the modern state in the nineteenth century had its own reasons to encourage patriotism and national consciousness.  He discusses how nationalist movements in Georgia, Armenia and Finland were dominated by socialists.  &quot;What would the future of Hebrew have been, had not the British mandate in 1919 accepted it as one of the three official languages of Palestine, at a time when the number of people speaking Hebrew as an everyday language was less than 20,000?&quot;  After discussing the rise of fascism, the Popular Front and the end of the Cold war, Hobsbawm ends memorably with this image:  &quot;The owl of Minerva which brings wisdom, said Hegel, flies out at dusk.  It is a good sign that it is now circling round nations and nationalism.&quot;	2001-04-27
US	52562171	RS2IKAMLCTAWP	0521480469	385003278	Masters of War: Military Dissent and Politics in the Vietnam Era	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Helps refute the &quot;stabbed in the back&quot; lie	&quot;Although two decades have passed since US combat soldiers left Indochina, Americans are still telling lies about Vietnam.&quot;  So begins Robert Buzzanco's invaluable book on the military opposition to the Vietnam war.  As Buzzanco points out in his introductory chapter, it is not necessarily true that the military is more hawkish and militarist than its civilian leaders.  In fact they were often more open to compromise and negotiation in the early days of the cold war than many American diplomats, and actually suggested non-involvement in the opening days of the Korean war.  Some of the officers Buzzanco discusses, such as General Ridgway and Shoup rejected intervention in Vietnam altogether.  Most often however a large number of officers realized that plans were flawed and that victory was unlikely, but by playing bureaucratic politics they could foist the blame on the civilians and on their service rivals in the army.<br />The result was that over and over again officers raised the same unalterable points.  You cannot bomb the North into submission, and you cannot defeat the NLF in the South with the corrupt and incompetent Southern regime we possess.  Of course, much of this was the army, the navy and the air forces criticizing the other services plans.  But as it turned out they were right and Buzzanco shows that the army was not stabbed in the back.  A review of America's long involvement should help demonstrate this.  In 1947, General George Marshall said that the French &quot;have no prospect&quot; of success in Vietnam.  Five years later the Joint Chief of Staff were unanimously opposed to committing any American troops into Vietnam.  General Matthew Ridgeway's opposition to assisting the French after Dien Bien Phu was crucial to the Geneva Accords.<br />Flash forward ten years and Johnson's decision to expand the war.  1964 is a year filled with concerns over the collapse of the South Vietnamese authority, concerns about NLF strength, and strategicdithering.  It is important to point out that Westmoreland, along with other officers like Wheeler, Johnson, and MacDonald opposed an all-out air war because they believed the Southern regime was too fragile to survive VC counterattacks.  Pacification was dying and in only about 20% of the villages were the residents willing to provide RVN officials with information about the Viet Cong.  In 1965 the war escalates.  The army Chief of Staff suggests US military involvement will last at least five years, and could go as long as 20.  &quot;In I Corps, where the Marines were deployed, `the communist guerrillas enjoyed essentially uncontested dominance over most of the rural population,' they [the Corps] admitted.&quot;  Conservative critics have blamed LBJ for not supporting an all-out air war.  But at the time army leaders were divided about the effectiveness of such a strategy.  Westmoreland thought that an air war would be ineffective as long as the situation of the South was on the verge of collapse.  Westmoreland and Taylor were surprised at how often the White House took the initiative in demanding the offensive.  <br />1966 and 1967: the officers quarrel about attrition, the air war and reinforcement, each pointing out the flaws in the other's arguments and nobody really very optimistic about a solution.  &quot;Admiral Sharp...pointed out that the United States had already caused heavy damage to most of the important military targets in the DRVN by August 1965, yet no American commander was suggesting that such measures had significantly altered the military situation in Vietnam.&quot;  In response to the full-scale American invasion, the Vietcong and the PAVN were stepping up their recruitment and matching the Americans.  Meanwhile Maxwell Taylor pointed out that the ARVN was shirking its duties, when the whole point of intervention was supposedly to stiffen their spine.  Various officers called for more reinforcements and more troops.  Even though they could make no promise that this would have any real effect, it could give them an alibi after an American defeat.  In January 1967 the MACV found that it had underestimated VC and PAVN major unit attacks by a factor of four.  Despite much blather about having their hands tied, the air force and the army culpably failed to protect their bases from guerrilla attacks.<br />Finally, 1968.  Supporters of the war have argued that the Tet offensive was in fact a glorious American victory.  But an obtuse and biased media convinced the American public the opposite.  In fact, as Clark Clifford pointed, at the time many senior military leaders were on the verge of panic.  As low morale, drug abuse, and fragging ravaged the American army, Westmoreland partially admitted the obvious:  the Communist goal was not to expel the Americans, but to undermine what southern faith remained the RVN's government and army.  The average ARVN battalion strength was at 50%, and it had lost one-quarter of its pre-Tet strength.  Even hard-line senators such as Stennis and Jackson were beginning to waver, while pacification and counter-insurgency had been ravaged.  Vann, Lansdale and others pointed out ARVN Corruption, intense popular opposition to American destructiveness and the culture of euphemism and denial at military headquarters.  The one flaw in this book is that more is not said about the post-1968 war, though the government has made sure that primary documents are much less available.  Based on 62 sets of private papers and oral histories and firmly well documented, this is a book that will be read for years to come.	2001-04-27
US	52562171	R37S641LD47Y65	0691016941	74549664	The Founding Myths of Israel	Books	4	34	40	N	N	An important account of how Mapai lost its way.	Zeev Sternhell is best known for writing several volumes on the origins of fascism.  His controversial interpretation is that Fascism originated as a &quot;pure doctrine,&quot; in France, as opposed to Italy and Germany, and that this idea was a heresy of socialism, a sort of nationalist socialism.  Critics have challenged this opinion on the grounds that, among other things, Sternhell concentrates on a handful of intellectuals while the more serious movements like the Croix de Feu are ignored.<br />Sternhell's new book also concentrates on intellectuals and advocates.  Much of it is therefore rather abstract, and relatively little is said about Mapai's relations with Israel. But it is better than has previous books for a number of reasons.  First off, it is very clear that Aaron David Gordon, Berl Katznelson and David Ben-Gurion were vital to the development of Zionism, the Labor Party and the State of Israel.  Here, the idea of Mapai ideology as a nationalist heresy from the universalist traditions of European Social Democracy is clearly on stronger grounds that with Barres and Deroulede. <br />What does Sternhell argue in particular?  He argues that the ideal of the kibbutz worker and of agricultural labor was a nationalist idealization clothed in socialist rhetoric.  It was believed more as an alternative to the urban diaspora Jew rather than as a serious and well thought model for a democratic worker's society.  By being strong workers Israelis could overcome their diasporan selves, while actual issues of power and control were evaded.  There was much hostility to individualism and many cliches of nationalist discourses were repeated, such as a &quot;socialism of producers,&quot; an emphasis on &quot;national spirit,&quot; and hostility towards cosmopolitanism. Sternhell is quite clear on the consequences of this ideology of class unity.  By 1948 only 5% of Jews lived in kibbutzes.  Mapai was an oligarchic institution with infrequent elections (in the thirtiesperhaps once every six or seven years).  Katznelson and Ben-Gurion claimed that they disliked the very concept of leaders, but in fact a narrow elite controlled Labor Zionist institutions.  Here we see a firm application of Michels' Iron Law of Oligarchy.  Corruption and economic incompetence were tolerated: what was truly unforgiveable was political and organizational dissent.  The gap in wages among Jewish construction workers in 1928-31 was the fifth highest in twenty-five countries studied.  Similar figures were the same for metalworking and printers.  Talk of a &quot;family wage&quot; to equalize matters in Histadrut was mostly talk, while Ben-Gurion lived a rather comfortable lifestyle with Histadrut picking up much of the tab.<br />Once the new state was established, the nationalist reality continued, leading the Labor Party to make the unforgiveable mistake of occupying the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in complete disregard of the wishes of its inhabitants.  Sternhell believes that Israel must now try to recover the pluralism and liberalism that Ben Gurion and his allies have so long neglected.  &quot;Today, more than ever, settlement in the territories endangers Israel's ability to develop as a free and open society.  But like all previous attempts at colonialism, the one the Israeli Right wishes to impose on the Palestinians is sure to come to an end.  The only uncertain factor today is the moral and political price Israeli society will have to pay to overcome the resistance that the hard core of the settler is bound to show to any just and reasonable solution.&quot;  With the election of Ariel Sharon this message now has greater urgency than ever before.	2001-04-26
US	52562171	R26BHGISQOZI2B	0691059039	590581149	Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American Right.	Books	3	80	104	N	N	Disappointing	The best part of McGirr's book about Orange County conservatism and the rise of the New American right is the first chapter on the setting.  She discusses how Orange Country boomed under the post-war military buildup.  One of the wealthiest counties in the country, thoroughly dependent on federal largesse, anti-communist ideology conveniently covered up that embarrassing fact in endless cant about individualism and the corrupting effects of the welfare state.  In particular this homogenous county was peculiarly dispersed in its geography, encouraging an atomization and emphasis on consumerism that limiteed the development of a real community feeling.  Into this vacuum the paranoia of the John Birch Society and a revived Fundamentalism rushed in.  Instead of the rural communities of the South, or the anglophobic minorities of the Midwest, the banner of the radical right would be held by unequivocally modern upper middle class technicians and entrepreneurs of the warfare state.  One could go, as McGirr does not, about how this wealthy stratum got government subsidized highways and tax deductions for their mortgages, while their racial exclusivity was backed up by Federal and State Housing authorities.  Meanwhile a new Southern elite was subsidized by the state as it shucked off its black tenants.  After getting so much power and wealth from the New Deal State, the radical right indignantly denounced it the minute the government tried to make a few measures to help the poor its plight it had helped to worsen.  <br />The flaw in McGirr's book is that it does not really emphasize the essential selfishness of this posture.  There is the occasional ironical mention of the role of the state and how evangelicalism never really faced the innate radicalism of the free market.  But otherwise this is a book heavily dependant on the centrist consensus which, being naturally opportunist and prone to move to the winning side, tends to view Reagan's success as a victory against the&quot;elitism&quot; and &quot;radicalism&quot; of the Democrats.  The flaws in this account are numerous.  When Alan Brinkley, in a contribution to a fetschrift on the sixties repeats Kevin Phillips' assertion that the Nixon-Reagan victory was a triumph of the &quot;middle class revolt,&quot; one must ask in what way were the Democrats and Liberal Republicans tribunes of the undeserving poor?  Allan Matusow's The Unravelling of America makes it quite clear that the main beneficiary of LBJ's Great Society was the middle class.  Peter Novick points out that more than two-thirds of New Yorkers though that civil rights were going &quot;too fast&quot; in 1964, before the Voting Rights Act.    <br />McGirr's account is not helped by her narrow focus.  She concentrates on those Birchites and Goldwater activists she was able to interview 30 years after the event.  Now if I was being interviewed after the fall of Communism, I probably wouldn't volunteer my belief that Eisenhower was a Soviet agent, or that I opposed open housing because I don't like black people.  There is not enough critical analysis of these interviews.  At one point McGirr says Orange County residents rejected George Wallace because he was pro-union, which is fantastic.   When McGirr writes about conflicts over abortion, or divorce or pre-marital pregnancy, I would have liked some discussion of how these things actually happened in Orange Country, rather than reading pious Conservative rhetoric about them.  At one point McGirr quotes that Fundamentalist and Evangelical Protestantism boomed in the seventies and eighties because many people found secular values uninspiring.  But does this not assume a Protestant valuation of the situation?  A non-Protestant, after all, may find Fundamentalism uninspiring and turn to secular values.  Clearly something more is involved than the relative merits of the two ideologies.  A contrast with Thomas Sugrue's The Origins of the Urban Crisis reveal McGirr's weaknesses inevery respect.  Sugrue is far more critical, far more detailed and far more sophisticated.  He starts his narrative in the late forties becuase he is aware that industrial decline and racial segregation started there.  By contrast McGirr starts in the late fifties, and although there are brief mentions of the campaign against open housing, the homogeneity, the anti-union atmosphere, and the class structure are taken more or less for granted.  Ultimately, this is a disappointing book.	2001-04-17
US	52562171	R2XAL4UE06VJ0A	0300084870	740748870	Under His Very Windows: The Vatican and the Holocaust in Italy	Books	4	34	54	N	N	The best scholarly account so far	For years there has been controversy over the role of Pius XII and his conduct during the Holocaust.  A couple of years ago John Cornwall came out with a book called Hitler's Pope.  This book is clearly superior to this one in many ways.  Zuccotti is an expert in both Italian history and the Holocaust and she has fully researched both the available dioscean archives and the twelve volume series of Vatican documents in the second world war.  She is noticeably fair, giving the pope credit where credit is due, and is careful about the risks a firmer anti-Nazi policy would have achieved.  What is her conclusion?  &quot;As some 6,746 Jews from Italy were being shipped north to share the fate of the others, the pope's own countrymen similarly looked to him for guidance.  They found little or nothing.&quot;<br />Pius XII has many defenders, but Zuccotti is good in showing where they are wrong.  She points out that there was a certain degree of hostility or coolness in pre-war Catholic newspapers.  These were not parochial or insignificant papers:  they were leading papers of either the Vatican or the Jesuits.  She points out that while Pius XI did say &quot;Spiritually, we are all Semites&quot; in 1938, the L'Osservatore Romano, the Vatican paper, did not.  There was some support in the Vatican, if not for the racist 1938 Italian laws, for measures that reduced the Jews to second- class citizenship.  She also points out that for several years the Vatican concentrated what attention it did give to Jewish converts to Catholicism.  Zuccotti is good at dismantling other myths.  In defense of his shameful silence about the deportation of Roman Jews, defenders said he donated money when the Nazis imposed a forced loan on the Jewish Community.  In point of fact he merely offered to loan them money, and only after he had been asked by the Jewish community when they incorrectly thought they might not be able to raise the money themselves.  Papal defenders like Father Robert Leiber,Joseph Lichten and Pinchas Lapide claim that the Vatican helped arrange 3,000 visas to Jews and converts, when in fact less than a thousand went to converts, with most of the Vatican money was actually a contribution from Jewish agencies.       <br />Pius XII has benefited from the belief that what good things the Church did do must have been an expression of his will.  It is a key value of this book that Zuccotti shows that was not the case.  Italian foreign ministry officials actually took the initiative in making sure Jews were not deported from occupied Croatia, while the rather mild-mannered protests and interventions at most bucked up their confidence.  Pius XII's own criticisms of the Nazis and Nazi racism were vague.  &quot;Jews&quot; were never mentioned, &quot;descent&quot; (as opposed to race) was only mentioned a handful of times.  Those who were already sympathetic to Jews could read support for their own activities, those who were not could ignore the Jews with a clear conscience.  Much of the Catholic initiative came from individual priests and bishops, while much of the help and the money came from Jewish organizations themselves, such as Desalem.  If there has been a written order to help the Jews, why was it not in the twelve volumes of Vatican documents?  If there was a written order, why did the Patriarch of Venice, the Archbishop of Perugia and other priests do little or nothing to help?<br />The Pope by later 1942, had enough information to know that the Jews of Europe faced an unprecedented danger.  He should have done more but did not.  He and his predecessor could have condemned the racial laws of the 1930s.  He could have condemned them again after Mussolini's fall.  He could have given the papal order that his defenders assume that he did.  One might add to Zuccotti's claim that he could have informed the hierarchy in Ireland, Switzerland, Canada and the United States to do more to help the Jews.  This would have been especially helpful in Canada, which had a truly pathetic record in helping refugees and much Catholic opposition to doing more. (As one can see in Irving Abella's None is Too Many) One might even add that as head of the Church Pius XII should have realized he should have run more risks, not less, than occupied Europe.  But he did not.  Reading Zuccotti's book, we find that though Pius XII was as celibate as a saint, he had the soul of a bureaucrat.	2001-04-10
US	52562171	R36M24QW838729	1564781623	945478736	Rigadoon	Books	4	31	41	N	N	Horrifying	Louis Ferdinand Celine was one of the greatest novelists of the twentieth century.  Louis Ferdinand Celine was a caring doctor and a man with a deep vein of compassion.  Louis Ferdinand Celine was an almost insanely vicious racist and anti-semite, calling for the extermination of the Jews in three infamous and untranslated pamphlets and raving about miscegenation and the coming extinction of the white race.  These are all facts and trying to explain the contradictions between them deserves a lot more attention than has so far been given.<br />In the meantime, read Rigadoon.  It is not in a class with Journey to the End of Night or Death on the Installment Plan, since its focus is narrower.  Celine's racism is more clearly in evidence, and even admirers will find the first thirty pages or so very trying.  Celine was not a collaborator, at least not in a legal sense, but on hearing him rave about race suicide or hurling abuse at the resistance, who understandably hated him, one thinks that he should have been grateful he wasn't shot.  After that, we get to the novel proper, which is a lightly fictionalized version of the last months of the war.  Time, and much else is rather hallucinatory.  At one point, Celine says it is May, at another point he is told about Rommel's funeral, which would have been eight months or so earlier.  Rigadoon consists of his nightmarish account of Celine's ultimately successful attempt to flee, with his wife and cat, from Germany into Denmark as the war ends.  As he is doing so Germany is being systematically pounded into rubble and Celine provides some horrifying passages about painfully slow trains that could be doused at any minute with phosphorous.  At one point Celine suffers from a concussion.  Along the way Celine and his party meet 17 mentally retarded children, and despite much abuse of these pathetic children, Celine manages to see them safely into Denmark.  It is rather revealing though that he never mentions that the Nazis triedto slaughter precisely these children. Through it all we see the trademark Celine style, the famously obscene vernacular, the pages dotted with ellipses, a style which looks so easy, and yet Celine worked so hard on.  Obviously, this is a novel which should be better known.	2001-04-07
US	52562171	R2MNUF28H1RMSB	0393050092	499888051	Napoleon and His Collaborators: The Making of a Dictatorship	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Thoroughly competent	After the drama of the French Revolution, the study of French political history just sort of dissolves.  Considering that one of the key goals of the men of Brumaire was to depoliticize French society, this can be considered to be a sign of their triumph.  Woloch's useful book discusses how Napoleon set up a technocratic, conservative regime in which organs outside of Napoleon increasingly lost their independence.  We have intelligent accounts of key figures like Cambaceres, Berlier and  Boulay de la Meurthe.  As Napoleon moves from conspirator to consul to first consul to counsel for life to Emperor, several themes emerge from this book.<br />One cannot help but be reminded of the Animal Farm logic of the proceedings or recall how Hitler hoodwinked the conservative elite who levered into power.  Yet Woloch is too good a historian to invoke such a vulgar comparison.  Napoleon in this account was conservative, vain, desirious of power and increasingly arbitrary in using it.  But he was also hard-working (unlike Hitler), genuinely courageous, and infinitely less ideological than most dictators.  He was contemptuous of public debate, but for most of his reign he would tolerate and listen to opposing advice, as long as it was tactfully presented and dealt with issues that he did not find absolutely vital (such as his own person).  His police regime was one of harsh censorship, a muzzled press, and a system of &quot;preventive detention.&quot;  But the jury trial still survived, and his prison system was not especially vicious and bloodthirsty.  Woloch devotes a whole chapter to the bureaucratic commissions who occasionally, but insufficiently, succeeded in mitigating the rigors of this system.  His bureaucrats were generously compensated at the expense of Europe, but they were reasonably competent and efficient until the last few years.<br />Another theme that comes up is that Napoleon was not a man of the left.  The Coup of 18th Brumaire was directed against the neo-Jacobins, Napoleon consistently compromised with amenable royalists and emigres rather than with Jacobins and democrats.  One of the key moves in establishing his power was the mass deportation of Jacobins after an assassination attempt in December 1800 which actually came from disgruntled royalists.  He tried to flatter the old nobility, was thoroughly elitist and he avoided any attempt to bring the larger population into the political picture.  The result was a regime where Napoleon appeared to possess unquestioned power, but which collapsed in the wake of military defeat.<br />The result is a work that is thoroughly competent, if not very original.  Compared to Woloch's first book on the post-Thermidor Jacobins, it does not so much fill a void as update our knowledge.  More could have been said about the fragility of the  society and about the larger social context of its support.  The Napoleonic entourage was a rather grey lot, so there are few illuminating details.  (Though there is the priceless account of how Cambaceres, now archchancellor of the empire, wrote in a panic to Napoleon asking him for approval to deport his troublesome old stepmother from Paris).  Only does the last chapter really come to life.  In particular, we see after Waterloo Napoleon forced to abdicate, and a commission of five parliamentarians meeting to consider what to do.  It is heartbreaking to see the honorable, courageous Carnot betrayed by the opportunist Fouche as the Bourbons are invited back again.  Carnot and other regicides are forced into exile, as well as Fouche by an ungrateful dynasty.  Quite frankly, this isn't fair.	2001-03-25
US	52562171	R2D20UDFDOJWO0	0807825697	171317813	From British Peasants to Colonial American Farmers	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Worth three and a half stars, but not easy reading.	For nearly forty  years, historians have concentrated their attention on the social history of the common people.  In American historiography in particular, remarkable progress has been made in the history of slaves, industrial workers and the aboriginal inhabitants of the continent.  But one group of people has not been treated with the prominence they deserve, and that is the rural majority of the first century and a half of the nation's existence.  95% of the United States was rural in 1776, and when you exclude the quarter that was slave and aboriginal, you have 70% that consisted of country people and their families, most of whom had or would eventually own land.  It is clear that this high level of economic independence was crucial to the development of American democracy.  Allan Kulikoff's book is the first of a multi-volume series that will examine the history of the American yeomen.  Kulikoff concentrates on how farmers sought a degree of independence and security from the capitalist market.  &quot;Capitalist transformation, then, stands at the center of our story.&quot;  In contrast to other historians Kulikoff argues that capitalism, crucially defined as a system of wage labor, &quot;had not yet reached our shores as late as the American Revolution.&quot;<br />The result is a  synthesis of the Colonial farmer to the American Revolution based on amazingly extensive reading  of the secondary literature.  This has to be the first  book where the bibliography (104 pages) is longer than the endnotes (73 pages), and Kulikoff seems to have read every scholarly article on  rural history.  However, the actual connection between yeomanry and the rise of democracy is slated for another volume, as is their eventual demise.  What we have here is a book that discusses the economics changes that lead the British and later the Germans to move to America in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.  We have a chapter on how emigration took place, how the new immigrants met and eventually conquered the Indians, how they expanded up until 1776 and how they set up households and fixed themselves in relations to markets.  Crucial to Kulikoff's account is how enclosure and other acts against the peasantry encouraged mass migration.  Most migrants in fact moved within Europe (either to Ulster or to Eastern Europe), but enough moved to the Western hemisphere to successfully conquer it.<br />All this is very thorough and thoughtful but it is not easy reading.  One problem is that Kulikoff abbreviates the books he is citing in his notes, so not only do you have to turn from your reading to the endnotes(which is always irritating), but then you often have to move from the endnotes to the bibliography.  I am aware that many readers have a philistine prejudice against footnotes, but since this is not a book for a general audience their opinions should be ignored.  Because of the structural focus of Kulikoff's work, the human element is somewhat downplayed in this book.  Despite talking about such subjects as the dispossession of the British peasantry, war and atrocities against the Indians, the beating of wives and the maltreatment of servants, Kulikoff writes about these subjects in a style with the life bleached out of it. The contrast with Thompson and Genovese is striking.  One might cruelly say that there is much here about demography, but little actual sex, much about diet as an ecological concept but little about food.  While Kulikoff is right to discuss the ill-treatment of servants, the subordination of women and the first shoots of the weeds of a rural proletariat, more could have been said about the general trends in the standard of living, especially compared to Britain.   Moreover what scholarly differences Kulikoff has are confined to brief comments in the endnotes, so Kulikoff's own voice is blurred.  The result is that it is not clear to the reader that Kulikoff is saying something new.  As such his emphasis that farmers were not simply small scale capitalists and that landownership rates rose as high as 90% in many areas of America is not made as forcefully as it could be.  Only the last chapter, actually the epilogue, does Kulikoff come to life as he portrays a new picture of the American Revolution as a violent conflict, with various armies looting and pillaging both sides.  There was mass emigration and hundreds were killed, indeed murdered, in Indian wars  alone.  (One remembers in particular the massacre of 90 peaceful praying Moravian Delawares who were slaughtered by frontier militia as they sang hymns and prayed.)  Given the way American conservatives have prided themselves on their &quot;successful&quot;  revolution in contrast to the French, it is very useful to learn that the per-capital income dropped  more than 40% during the decade of revolution and had not returned to its pre-war level thirty years later.   One can only wait for the next volume.	2001-03-21
US	52562171	R39INYHKQN9Q31	1859847862	58875212	Unacknowledged Legislation: Writers in the Public Sphere	Books	4	73	81	N	N	Fine wine and conversation at the bloody Crossroads	Admiring Christopher Hitchens is very easy and for excellent reasons.  He is cultured, witty, humane, passionate and principled.  Most people compared to George Orwell are humbugs and frauds, but Hitchens is one who shares Orwell's indignation, passion for truth and unstinting honesty.  Hitchens often quotes Orwell, and indeed prays upon him in aid.  Unlike Orwell, Hitchens is not one for the ascetic life, and his deflation of cliche and euphemism owes more to Dwight Macdonald.  This collection praises many writers, such as Oscar Wilde, Salman Rushdie, and P.G. Wodehouse.  It offers nuanced portraits of other writers, such as Philip Larkin, H.L. Mencken and Anthony Powell.  And it provides slashing polemics against the likes of Tom Wolfe and Tom Clancy, and details the sad declension of Conor Cruise O'Brien.  What unites this collection is a rather vague disquisition on the clash between politics and literature.  Naturally enough, says Hitchens, one should avoid crass politicization and ideological traps, and instead be generous, open-minded, but not uncritical.<br />For so controversial a writer these are rather anodyne sentiments.  There are disturbing signs that Hitchens is becoming an &quot;unpredictable&quot; socialist, who is hardest on his own side and generous to the other side.  What is wrong with that, one may ask?  Well there is the problem that this refrain has been echoed for two decades by the New Republic and by the Bill Clinton that Hitchens so sincerely loathes.  And while Hitchens is very generous to Rudyard Kipling and Philip Larkin, and perhaps even a bit too generous to T.S. Eliot, I don't think he would treat the Catholicism of Waugh and Greene with the same respect.  It is one thing to concede Alger Hiss' guilt, but must we concede Sacco and Vanzetti's as well (especially when the book by David Kaiser and William Young screams reasonable doubt at every stage of the proceedings)?  And is Allan Bloom's Love and Friendship really superior to say,F.R. Leavis or Joseph Epstein, let alone Frederic Jameson simply because his fellow Straussians wouldn't tolerate his homosexuality?  (Personally I think Bloom's dogmatically presented paraphrase amounts to Coles Notes with megalomania.)  Finally, praising Jorge Luis Borges' criticism of the Falklands war (at Gabriel Garcia Marquez's expense) foreshortens Borges' consistent support for Argentinian military regimes not led by Peron.  One may also point out Hitchens' complete failure to appreciate or understand the religious impulse.  Much religious discourse in the United States is empty, but that's no excuse for comparing Christmas to Stalinism or saying that Stephen Hawking is more awe-inspiring than Genesis or Ezekiel.  Similarly even if one concedes that Gore Vidal is a brilliant essayist and that Saul Bellow is too uncritical about Israel's aggressive policies, one cannot deny that Bellow is clearly the superior novelist.  <br />At his best though Hitchens is a brilliant and stimulating critic.  The attack on Tom Wolfe is well worth reading, as Hitchens convicts Wolfe of self-importance and self-plagiarism.  He is particularly acute on the shabby writing and self-pity of the conservative espionage novel.  On the one hand he quotes the grim relish Tom Clancy has on giving orders about prisoners of war that got Keitel and Jodl hanged at Nuremberg.  On the other hand he shows how Clancy could be so incompetent as to write several passages twice while at the same time imagining that a germ warfare specialist would glibly spill infected blood on himself thinking it was tomato juice.  An article on Michael Frayn's Headlong shows that Hitchens shares with John Leonard the vital quality of arousing an enthusiasm for the work in question.  Here in the best sense, Hitchens is a propagandist for literature.  An article on Wilde (there are several in fact) really arouses the proper indignation one feels of seeing this fine man crushed and destroyed.  He is acute on how theyoung Bellow criticized the workhouse condescension of social workers, while in his old age seems to wish such regimentation be applied to Chicago's &quot;minority&quot; population.  And consider this damning passage that reveals the fatal flaw of H.L. Mencken:  &quot;About the rise of Fascism in general, Mencken was sanguine; more sanguine, let us say, that he was about FDR.  That might be condemnation enough.  Yet it is not.  Think of the incredible LITERARY failure that is involved in Mencken's failure that is involved in Mencken's refusal to write a serious polemic about Hitler.  Here, aside from the grotesque embodiment of all hatred and superstition, was the quack, charlatan and crank to end all quacks, charlatans, and cranks.  Such a target!  And from the pen that flayed and punctured the `booboisie,' there comes little or nothing.&quot;  It shows all of Hitchens' finest literary qualities:  accuracy, juxstaposition, and moral outrage that is no less sincere for being carefully modulated.   More mixed are essays on Anthony Powell and George Orwell.  Before praising Burnet Bolloten and Noam Chomsky's essay on Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship as the last word on the Spanish Civil War, Hitchens should perhaps take the time to read Paul Preston and the upcoming work by Helen Graham.  (Preston's The Coming of the Spanish Civil War shows clearly that Largo Caballero could never have led a successful revolution).  On the other hand there is a fine essay on Isaiah Berlin which points out his love for Anna Akhamotova and the genuine admiration that surrounded him, but reminds the reader of his unfairness to the Palestinians and his disgraceful conduct towards Issac Deutscher.  If you liked No One Left to Lie To you will love this book.  If you hated No One Left to Lie to you will still like this book, because here at least Hitchens demonstrates that is not what to think, but how, that is most important.	2001-03-18
US	52562171	RRUU5MD0NSFWI	0679761640	476200848	The Makioka Sisters	Books	4	67	74	N	N	The Private world of a vicious dicatorship	The Makioka Sisters is a special novel for two reasons.  Much of Japanese literature this century is very taut and relatively short.  One thinks of Soseki, Mishima, Dazai, Kawabata and the two most important of Tanizaki's other novels, Some Prefer Nettles and Diary of a Mad Old Man.  Instead of being 150-200 pages, this book is around 500 pages.  The popular description of this book, about a merchant family in decline, might imply a book like Budenbrooks.  Yet this book is very different from Thomas Mann's fine novel.  For a start it only covers four years, not a couple of generations.  More important the theme of decline is not a primary one, and Mann's theme of cultural enervation is absent.<br />What we have instead is a book that seeks to be a work of &quot;photographic realism.&quot;  It seeks to be &quot;real&quot; not in the sense that Flaubert or James or Tolstoy are realistic.  Instead of portraying complex themes and ideas while keeping an eye on what would be actually plausible, Tanizaki seeks to describe what actually happens.  This sort of realism is not highly valued since it is often unimiginative and often psychologically shallow.  And indeed in this book it can often appear tedious and unrewarding.  But a closer examination reveals certain virtues.<br />In a sense Tanizaki's book is &quot;like life.&quot;  The story of Taeko of of the youngest sister who cannot marry because custom dictates she must wait for her older sister Yukiko to be married.  The story of her two possible fiancess and the eventual pre-marital pregnancy appear, not as part of a complex, organic scheme as, say, the story of Anna Karenina, but as a series of discrete events, moved often by coincidence and chance.  A flood becomes a crucial event, one character is killed by a quack doctor, Taeko becomes ill with dystentry at a crucial moment, a proposal is botched because Yukiko cannot summon the courage to answer the telephone.  Since this is often how life happens it is not unrealistic and indeed has a special value of perspective.  <br />Tanizaki's sense of style and detail are also interesting.  For example there is little on food (by contrast one remembers the Christmas dinner in Buddenbrooks).  There is the Japanese emphasis on the intense aesthetic absorption in a taut, sparsely described expression of nature.  Two of the leading incidents in the book describe watching cherry trees bloom and having a firefly hunt in the night.  At one point Sachiko, the second sister and the most important one in the novel, watches her young daughter and her German friends plays with dolls and the German girl accurately tells where babies come from.  It is interesting that Sachiko approves of this realism.<br />Most interesting is the fact that this book takes place from 1936 to 1940, during, of course, the Japanese invasion of China.  Tanizaki itself stared writing the book during the second world war, and his publication was delayed on the grounds that it apparently did not help the war effort enough.  It was not actually published until 1948, when Japan was occupied by the American occupation.  How much did this change the political tone?  Perhaps not as much as one might think, since the Makiokas write their German friends that they are pleased that their ally is doing so well in the summer of 1940.  Yet at the same time the absence of ideology and fanaticism is striking.  The Makiokas naturally agree with the austerity campaigns, they refer to the invasion as the &quot;China Incident&quot; like everyone else, and they vaguely wish for peace.  This is not unrealistic per se (the Makiokas are probably too old to worry about conscription) and the absence of politics is also not unrealistic.  After all women did not have the right to vote at this time.  Before commenting on how the Makiokas have escaped the trap of ideology, and before making comparisons to Jane Austen, one should consider while reading this novel the idea that such privatism is essential to such a regime.  Instead of totalitarianism smashing individuals and transforming themselves into empty masses, one should consider the insights of Rudy Koshar and William Sheridan Allen that regimes feed off this sort of privatism and political isolation.	2001-03-17
US	52562171	RA23KQ2M3M8N	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	4	153	232	N	N	The case against David Irving	Did you know that during the Beer Hall Putsch Hitler was firmly opposed to anti-Semitic violence and when he heard that some Nazis had attacked Jewish stores he summoned them and summarily dismissed them from the party?  Well if you don't know, don't blame yourself, it's not actually true.  And if you thought you knew this you have been misled by David Irving.  As Richard J. Evans points out in this useful book, what Irving did was rely on the testimony at Hitler's trial of a Nazi Party member and Munich police officer.  Aside from massaging various details to make Hitler look even more principled that the witness said he was, Irving ignored the fact that the witness was obviously trying to improve Hitler's image and even the amazingly indulgent tribunal agreed he was too partial a witness to be believed.  As readers will find out in this book, this is not the first nor the last questionable interpretation Irving has inflicted on his readers.<br />This book arises out of last year's libel trial in which Irving sued the American author Deborah Lipstadt for claiming he was a Holocaust denier.  He lost his case, basically because Lipstadt and her lawyers were able to show that in fact he was one.  Evans, a distinguished historian of modern Germany was asked to examine Irving's work, and he produced a damning affidavit that showed that Irving had systematically distorted the evidence in order to euphemize and indulge Hitler's actions.  Surprisingly, Irving went into the trial with a much better reputation than he deserved.  He was able to quote prominent and respected historians who claimed that, regardless of his views on the Holocaust, his other work was often scholarly and informative.  People wondered out loud whether a court was a good place to hear such a case, forgetting that it was Irving who launched the case.  Evans points out that this was not the first time Irving had resorted to the courts as a substitute for scholarly debate.  He was suing the journalist Gitta Sereny for libel, bullied John Lukacs' publishers with libel threats, and had lost a libel suit against an author who had attacked his sensationalistic book on the death of General Sikorski.<br />Evans believes justice was done, and provides an excellent case.  He shows how Irving made all sorts of distortions and misleading statements.  A supposedly damning statement about Jewish crime turns out to be based on Nazi propaganda.  Even worse, Irving managed to distort even these statements to say Jews were responsible for 31,000 fraud cases, mostly insurance swindles in 1932 (In fact there were only 74 Gentiles and Jews charged with insurance swindles in that year).  A key source for Irving's indulgent account of the Kristallnacht turns out to be based on a neo-Nazi apologist.  Evans details Irving's links to Holocaust deniers, and points out the fact that he was the last person on earth to vouch for the authenticity of the forged Hitler diaries.<br />While many people agree that Irving may have a bee in his bonnet about the Holocaust, they say his other work is valuable.  Evans helpfully deflates that view with a chapter on Irving's book on the Destruction of Dresden.  Whereas most scholars suggest that at most 40-50,000 people died in the firebombing of the city, Irving has suggested that up to a quarter of a million may have died.  How did he do this?  Well, without any real evidence he took one estimate of 40,000 and argued that the assessor had just dropped a &quot;1&quot; at the beginning in response to Soviet pressure.  His source for a total of 200-250,000 amount to little more than fifth-hand hearsay of a document that had been excerpted, transcribed, transcribed again and copied, and which was a fraud in the first place.  Evans points out that Irving tried to exaggerate the number of people in Dresden by cited 1.25 million ration cards, except that the British had previously dropped thousands of ration cards in order to muck up the Nazi bureaucracy.  And, oh yes, Evans points out that Irving ignores or minimizes contemporary German documents that show that the death total was about the tenth of his estimate.  All in all, this is a very useful book, one that should help demolish the reputation of a most overrated and sinister figure.	2001-03-10
US	52562171	R14TLT21GPOGNG	1859847390	583999917	Late Victorian Holocausts: El Nino Famines and the Making of the Third World	Books	5	89	95	N	N	Vital, a brilliant combination of history and ecology.	Mike Davis' new book is a work of singular importance, offering a valuable new perspective on a disaster of horrifying magnitude.  In the late 1870s and the late 1890s somewhere between 30 to 60 million people died in famine in India, China and Brazil.  This does not count the many more who died from the Philippines to Angola, from Morocco to Indonesia.  To the extent that people remember these famines it has been assumed that they were the result of an unfavorable climate.  To the extent that larger social factors were involved, they were a classic Malthusian crisis, too many people on too little land, and they represented the failure of the Third World to adapt the industrial revolution.  <br />Davis shows very clearly that the third world was ravaged by the El Nino phenomenon.  But that is the only the beginning.  They were also ravaged by the new regimes of imperialism and the world market.  Had the responsible authorities distributed what food existed, most of the victims would have survived.  Davis is well aware of Nobel laureate A. Sen's argument that they key problem with famine is not scarcity but maldistribution.  He also point out that whether under the American occupation of the Philippines or the ravages of Mao's Great Leap Forward, the real problem was the lack of democracy and lack of influence of the very poor.  <br />Davis starts off with a fascinating and horrific description of the famines, filled with damning facts.  For example Lord Lytton and his bureaucrats in 1876 India were obssessed with the idea that relief would just encourage Indian shirking.  Readers will not soon forget that the calorie/work regimen that Lytton did impose was worse than that of Buchenwald.  Nor will they forget the judgment of the Famine inquiries in the 1880s whom, Davis notes, concluded that with millions of famine dead the main flaw was that too much money was spent on relief.  Davis goes into how the famines sparked millenarian movements and political resistance from the Boxer rebellion to the extermination of the Catholic movement at Canudos discussed, inaccurately, in Mario Vargas Llosa's The War of the End of the World.  He also brings a discussion of how scientists found the El Nino phenomenon, and gives a thorough technical account of how it works.  He then discusses how the famines solidified European hegemony over the Third World leading to their stagnation and decline.<br />Based on such scholars as Bairroch, Parthsarathi, Gura and Pomeranz, Davis brings forth many facts that shore up his argument.  1) In 1800 India's share of the world manufactured product was four times that of Britain, and China's share was even higher.  By 1900 India was fully under British control and the ration was 8-1 in England's favor.  2) In 1789 the living standards of China and Western Europe were roughly comparable and it appeared that China was making even better progress with its ecological problems.  Naturally, a century later Europeans and Americans were much better off.  3) Despite all the many claims made on behalf of British rule in India, Indian per capita income stayed the same from 1759 to 1947.  And contrary to the Malthusian argument, its population didn't grow very much. 4) Indian and Chinese rulers actually had before 1800 a good record of mitigating famines, and one British statistician suggested that whereas for the previous two millennia there was one major famine a century, under British rule there was one every four years.<br />How had things gone so wrong such that the El Nino famines could have such a devastating effect?  Here Davis provides a useful and valuable account.  Whereas previously anti-imperialists had crudely claimed that Britain had got where it was by draining the wealth of the Third World, Davis' account is much more nuanced.  The problem was not so much the absolute share.  Instead, by having a captive markets in Asia, Britain in the late 19th century was able to maintain its balance of payments and its complex system of free trade as surpluses in Asia balanced its increasing trade deficits with Germany and the United States.  Davis shows not only how India had to bear the military costs of empire, but also how British irrigation schemes were often poorly funded, inappropriate for local conditions and had pernicious ecological effects.  China, by contrast did face a severe ecological crisis which, as Davis points out, it could not escape as the Europeans did by colonizing the Western hemisphere.  Moreover the West forced China to keep up the opium trade and forced it into inequitable trading arrangements.  This encouraged the Chinese government to concentrate on protecting the ports and its sovereignty while underfunding the collapsing irrigation system.  Ecological and political crisis fed off each other, leading to revolution and continued ecological crisis to the present day.<br />The result is a work which provides a valuable alternative to David Landes, The Wealth and Poverty of Nations.  There are some minor flaws (for instance, Czar Alexander III, unlike his father and son, was not assassinated).  But it also helps introduce to a larger audience the valuable work of Indian historians that has been too long confined to specialists.  It also provides a valuable complement to such works as Sheldon Watts' Epidemics and History and Prasannan Parthasarathi's The Making of a Colonial Economy.  In the end this is a very different, but very appropriate sequel to the Ecology of Fear.	2001-03-04
US	52562171	R1BM376BIE8328	1556524064	198362116	Movie Wars: How Hollywood and the Media Limit What Movies We Can See	Books	4	14	16	N	N	There is more to good movies than Miramax.	For years now there have been two kinds of movie critics:  those who like the movies that win the Academy Award for best picture and those who are actually worth reading.  Rosenbaum as a critic clearly falls into the second category and his book is invaluable for the perspective it presents on modern cinema.  Hollywood has become increasingly depressing over the past two decades.  The autopsies of Pauline Kael in 1980 and Mark Crispin Miller in 1990 have been vindicated in spades.  The Academy Awards, instead of honoring the usual middlebrow works such as Amadeus, goes for such lowbrow historical works as Braveheart and Titanic.  To the isolated critic, the appearance of such films as Fargo and such companies as Miramax appears as an oasis.  The value of Rosenbaum's book is that it shows that this is a mirage.<br />The problem, says Rosenbaum, is not that there are not good movies being made anymore.  The problem is that most of them are foreign movies and both Hollywood and the media take an obtuse and philistine approach towards them.  One could simply look to the Village Voice Critics List and one would see such films as Beau Travail, The House of Mirth, Yi Yi, The Wind Will Carry Us, L'Humanite, and Time Regained all in the top 10, but they would be virtually unknown to the rest of continent.  Rosenbaum is particularly fond of the Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami and the Portuguese Manuel De Oliviera.  But these and many other directors that Rosenbaum mentions do not get the attention they deserve.  Miramax concentrates on &quot;feel-good&quot; foreign films, such as Life is Beautiful or Chocolat.  Rosenbaum's description of Miramax's version of The Wings of the Dove, as middlebrow soft-core porn that traduces its source, emphasizes the problem.  Miramax picks up the distributing rights to more challenging fare, not to show them, but to prevent other companies from seeing them.  Rosenbaum is particularly cutting about how Mirimax executives monopolize media discussion at Cannes by putting down other movies and appealing to xenophobic and philistine instincts of American reporters.  Critics are often obtuse about films. (Rosenbaum is particularly cutting about the cheap Francophobia of such well respected writers as David Denby and James Wolcott).  This unpleasant isolationism is all the more dangerous because the American industry has such an enormous influence on the rest of the world's movies.<br />Rosenbaum emphasizes the self-serving illusions of Hollywood hacks who say they only make what the public wants.  After all, they claim, people won't watch movies with subtitles or in black and white.  As Rosenbaum points out, audiences had no trouble watching subtitles in Dances with Wolves, and watching black and white subtitles in Schindler's List.  The basic problem is that the movie testing machine is designed in such a way as to give the audience limited choices and to verify the prejudices of studio heads.  The book is not perfect.  One may feel that if one needed to defend a Hollywood picture you could have a better choice than Small Soldiers.  Likewise, one may wonder whether Paul Verhoaven is a brilliant satirist or just deeply cynical.  And if you think that Casablanca, or Quientin Tarantino are better than Rosenbaum suggests, you will not find much counter-argument here.  But if you have never heard of Robert Bresson, you must read this book.	2001-03-01
US	52562171	R2WC3IN528OTRS	0807822280	457716022	America's Secret War against Bolshevism: U.S. Intervention in the Russian Civil War, 1917-1920	Books	4	20	20	N	N	An important intelligent contribution	This is important book which shed much light on the origins of the cold war and will probably do much to hurt Wilson's reputation.  Based on 128 sets of private and governmental papers, coming from archives from three countries, Foglesong's book show a story of deceit and self-deception.  Wilson has sometimes been seen as sympathetic to the cause of Russian freedom; indeed he has been sometimes seen as sympathetic to the Bolsheviks(for example by Richard Pipes, in The Russian Revolution).  Quite false, for Foglesong shows how Wilson combined his trademark moralism, no less sincerely believed in for being trite and shallow, with working with reactionairies and militarist whites to crush the revolution.<br />Foglesong starts off with a chapter on Wilson's illusions in Mexico, during which American officials sought to use Japanese agents to poison Pancho Villa.  The next chapter looks at the origins of American Anti-bolshevism; Foglesong looks at it a melange of Wilson, Lansing and the American elite's salon style anti-socialist chatter, its nativists prejudices, and its smug puritanism.  We go on to see how this influenced American Anti-Communist propaganda, with its fatuous anti-atheism and its fear of racial equality.  A passage on the State Department's susceptibility to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and choice comments from Lansing and Hoover are, as they, well worth the price of reading alone.  But this is only the beginning.  The United States completely failed to recognize that Russia had no choice but to leave the war; bullying the desperate Provisional Government was the last thing it needed and helped make its collapse inevitable.  Wilson and Lansing supported the Cossack Kaledin, unaware that the cause of his Volunteer Army was hopeless.  Wilson and Lansing constantly used secrecy and subversion, keeping the American public in the dark.  The state department was contemptous of the left-wing Socialist Revolutionaries (SRs) the winner of the electionsto the Constituent assembly and, as Geoffrey Swain has provocatively argued, the only group who could have possibly stopped the Bolsheviks.  Instead Americans on the scene talked of favoring a &quot;military dictatorship,&quot; and shed no tears when the SRs were overthrown by Admiral Kolchak, whose gross inadequacies as a leader have to be read in the invaluable monograph by Jon Smele to be believed.  The Americans used food as a weapon, used the defeated Germans to prevent the Soviets from reoccupying the Baltic States, and indulged in further illusions about the incompetent and brutal Iudenitch.<br />Foglesong writes in a dry matter, but he is well worth reading.  In the end he is quite successful in showing that far from making the world safe for democracy and for open diplomacy, Wilson's activities were a major stage in the creation of &quot;secret wars.&quot;  Quite unsuccessful the first time, the same methods of secrecy, rhetorical support for democracy, hard support for vicious, reactionary and incompetent rulers would be used again and again in the future.	2001-02-17
US	52562171	RWHDSDRDXAAY6	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	2	46	84	N	N	Orientalism from Multicultural Canada	On page six Ondaatje writes how the Bedouin who have found &quot;the English Patient,&quot; &quot;had come each night and chewed and softened the dates and passed then down into his mouth.&quot;  It is an intensely evocative and memorable image.  Yet back on the first page, we have Hana in the Italian villa where the Patient has ended up ruminating over her care of him and in particular &quot;the penis sleeping like a sea horse.&quot;  Another memorable image, but as Nicholas Spice pointed out in the London Review of Books, sea horses are, like all small fish, extremely alert and cautious, so it could not really be said that the organs of a horribly burned and helpless man sleep like them. <br />If there is one note that Ondaatje consistently strikes through the novel it is the false one.  I may be the only person I know who thought The English Patient was a better movie than Fargo, but the book is deeply flawed.  Consider the following.  The crucial love triangle at the core of the novel consists of three archaeologists, a Hungarian aristocrat and an English couple.  They spend much of the thirties wandering around Libya which appears largely as exotic desert where great monuments are buried under the desert wastes.  No mention is made of the fact that people actually live in Libya, and that in the twenties and thirties where the novel takes place, Libya was a victim of horrendous Italian aggression as Mussolini slaughtered tens of thousands of people fighting for their independence.  <br />Likewise consider the moral dilemma that arises when the Hungarian Count de Almasy gets entangled with the Nazis.  A better writer would note Hungary's authoritarian and anti-semitic political culture, and the fact that Hungary was Germany's ally in the Second World war.  Likewise would a crack thief like Caravaggio really wander around naked in carrying out a job?  One suspects that Ondaatje just thought that the image was evocative.  Finally Kip, the Sikh bomb expert who has an affair with Hana at the end of the novel angrily leaves the British Army in outrage over Hiroshima, saying that the Allies would never have treated a white city like that.  The problem is not the outrage.  The problem is that during Kip's tenure in the army, the British had imprisoned Gandhi and Nehru, suppressed the 1942 Quit India movement, caused a disastrous famine in the Bengal costing millions of lives, had committed a large number of imperialist and selfish acts which can be seen in the works of Christopher Thorne, and, incidentally, had bombed Dresden to ashes.  That Kip should be upset NOW begs the question.  The problem is that Kip does not think like an Indian soldier, but like his author and his audience who no doubt heard of Hiroshima first and learned of the rest much later if at all.  Indeed were it not for the fact that Ondaatje is a Sri-Lankan-Canadian writer, one might say that the English Patient was a classic work of orientalism.	2001-02-10
US	52562171	RE2EG22MOY40G	067960006X	702279087	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 2: Within a Budding Grove (Modern Library) (v. 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very beautiful	One of the seven volumes of The Remembrance of Things Past, Within a Budding Grove is my favorite.  Proust was of course infinitely more than a narcissist and a snob, but it is perhaps this volume which shows this more than the others.  In terms of pure sensousness this volume contains Proust's most purely &quot;beautiful&quot; passages.  Here we see the beginning and the ebbing of Marcel's attraction to Gilbertte Swanne and his new attraction to Albertine.  Here the elaborate and elegantly structured sentences are easier to appreciate than in the long passages about the unpleasantness of the Guermantes or Marcel's elaborate comments on the ebbing memory in The Fugitive.  <br />Consider one passage which Theodor Adorno admired very much, where Marcel encounters Madame Swann wearing a lovely dress:  &quot;And I learned that these canons according to which she dressed, it was for her own satisfaction that she obeyed them, as though yielding to a Superior Wisdom of which she herself was High Priestess:  for if it should happen that, feeling too warm, she threw open or even took off altogether and gave me to carry the jacket which she had intended to keep button up, I would discover in the blouse beneath it a thousand details of execution which had had every chance of remaining unperceived, like those parts of an orchestral score to which the composer had devoted infinte labor albeit they may never reach the ears of the public:  or in the sleeves of the jacket that lay folded across my arm I would see, I would drink in slowly, for my own pleasure of from affection for its wearer, some exquisite detail, a deliciously tinted strip, a lining of mauve satinette which, ordinarily concealed from every eye, was yet just as deliciously fashioned as the outer parts, like those gothic carvings on a cathedral, hidden on the inside of a balustrade eighty feet from the ground, as perfect as are the bas-reliefs over the main porch, yet never seen by any living man until, happening topass that way upon his travels, an artist obtains leave to climb up there among them, to stoll in the open air, sweeping the whole town with a comprehensive gaze, between the soaring towers.&quot;<br />Adorno's comments on this passage are far more profound than anything I could say.  (They are availabe in the second volume of Notes to Literature) What is so striking, says Adorno, about this passage is not its enraptured precision but the way Proust preserves the unmediated experience of childhood that is so easily destroyed by our conformist society.  In showing that this experience can be retrieved Proust's writing is profoundly liberating, not filled with &quot;the false maturity of resignation.&quot;  Though Proust was physically weak, the iron discipline of Proust's art reveals the deepest and most heroic discipline.  Proust, in the end, is a martyr to happiness.	2001-02-03
US	52562171	R3ONV1SG70IT3V	0521790476	650384074	Hitler's Italian Allies: Royal Armed Forces, Fascist Regime, and the War of 1940-1943	Books	4	27	42	N	N	How not to run an army.	That the Italian Army does not have a good reputation for military valor, honor or even competenece is no suprise.  After all this was an army that lost to Ethiopia at the battle of Adua.  And never has this army been less successful than during the Second World War.  Mussolini could not beat France after it had been defeated by Germany.  He nearly lost to Greece before the Germans helpfully intervened.  From its cowardly attack on France at the moment of her defeat to the cowardly evacuation of its elite from Rome before the Nazis handily occupied half of Italy, the Italian military effort was one of shame, incompetence, dogmatism and fatuousness.<br />Knox's book provides a succinct account of an army that failed almost every conceivable measure.  There are exceptions of course; the Italians had some good intelligence measures and some of them occasionally fought hard-fought battles.  What went wrong?  Few will disagree with Knox that Italy was poor, had limited resources, that Mussolini's leadership was disatrous.  But Knox puts special emphasis on Italy's military culture. Looking at area by area, Knox starts with politics and industry.  War industries were inefficient and bureaucratically complex.  Overall tax yields actually decreased 20% in the three years of the war, and draft deferrments allowed people to stay in college until they were 26.  The Italian state gave monopoly support to industries which made &quot;perhaps the worst monoplane fighter of the Second World War.&quot;  In machinery the Italian Army, despite 30 years of desert warfare in Africa, could not produce proper compasses for their desert trucks.  In emphasizing the propaganda value of numbers, Mussolini and the army created a logistical nightmare of insufficently motorized divisions.  The navy foolishly decided that it did not need aircraft carriers until it was too late, nor did they understand the value of torpedo bombers, while innovative research on radar stayed in the lab until it wasalso too late.  The air force leadership failed to demand proper high-octane fuels and many of their planes had to run on castor oil.<br />Strategically the Italian military failed to recognize the full economic weight of the Allies.  They failed to appreciate the coming of Barbarossa or the supreme ideological importance it had for the Nazis.  Mussolini dissipated Italian forces on half a dozen fronts.  By contrast much of the army and navy were unhelpfully passive and unimiginative, moving with little daring or even proper plans.  Military operations were slow, with poor coordination, over-complex structures and officer heavy staffs that all made for poor mobility.  Commanders badgered their subordinates with obsessively and unhelpfully detailed orders, while buck-passing was the order of the day.  Promotion was slow and unmeritocratic, and three were so few motorized vehicles soldiers often had to walk on foot.  The supply services were uniquely unhelpful, working in such a centralized manner that division and corps commanders would sit still in fear that if they moved they would be cut off from their supplies.  Italian codes were easily available to the allies, the Navy made insufficient preparations for fighting at Night, and when the German left the siege of Malta back to the Italians in 1942, the Maltese declared &quot;We felt that our prayers had been answered.  God has sent back the Italians.&quot;<br />Tactics were unhelpful.  NCOs had no hope of promotion, officers had a caste mentality which separated them from their solidiers, and there was a corresponding failure of initiative and tactical rigidity.  Ultimately Knox is right to say this was a failure which transcended Mussolini's own megalomania.  If there is a flaw in this book Knox perhaps overstates Italy's lack of modernity and lack of civic cohesion.  Greece and Russia were arguably even less modern.  And while the Soviet Union was arguably more brutal than Italy, it also faced in 1941 an infinitely more severe challenge than Italy.  And besides brutality, as Nicholas II and Mussolini himself would learn at their cost, is not everything. Nothing so clearly represented the emptiness of his claims to modernize Italy than his failure to change an army that was the very opposite of a meritocracy.  This was an elite that combined an unusual lack of scruple with an unusual lack of competence.	2001-01-30
US	52562171	R3EVVD63LJRBL0	0151002304	1488898	Too Far Afield	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Elegiac	This is an interesting experiment.  Instead of writing his usual novels filled with magic realism, Too Far Afield is based on a striking conceit.  A former East German cultural functionary, Theo Wuttke, is born a century after the first great German novelist, Theodore Fontane.  Throughout the history of the German Democratic Republic he will make his living giving lectures on Fontane to Communist audiences.  Indeed Wuttke, known as &quot;Fonty&quot; to all his friends, will blur the events of his own life with that of the great novelist.  With the same sort of wife and the same number of children Fontane and Fonty also evoke analogies between the reunification of Germany in 1871 with that of 1990.  The difference, of course, is whereas in the former date Prussia and the Prussian monarchy and army succeeded in dominating the other German states, in the latter a truncated Prussia was accepted as a supplicant by a smugly superior West.  At the same time Fonty is continually shadowed by Ludwig Hofftaller, a former Stasi agent, a former Gestapo agent, who for nearly fifty years has been protecting Fonty by giving the subtle hint and the insinuation of blackmail.  Fonty, now in his seventies, is employed at the Handover Trust, in charge of the privitization of East German property.  He will try to save the Paternoster, an old-fashioned elaborate elevator, and will be assigned to task of figuring out a better term for the rather depressing process than &quot;winding down.&quot; <br />The novel contains a murder, a fatal accident, a wedding, a fire, an ostracization and a disappearance, but the tone is quiet and elegiac.  Particularly subtle is the portrait of Fonty's daughter, Martha, once a fervent Communist, then a considerably less fervent one, then the Catholic wife of an older Catholic businessman, and finally a propagandist for efficiency and open-mindedness for the new post-Communist party. To fully appreciate this novel one would have to know much more of Fontane'swork than most people on this continent do (the last line, and the title, refer to Fontane's most famous novel, Effi Briest).  Perhaps an analogy would be to have Martin Amis write a novel about a double of Dickens.  Yet if the tone of the novel is more subdued than that of Grass's previous works, there is still the gift of incident and observation that won Grass the Nobel Prize.  Early in the novel Fonty and Hofftaller go to a Mcdonalds for the first time, and Fonty responds as Fontane would, by telling about the glorious ballads of the Macdonald clan of his beloved Scotland.  Near the end of the novel Fonty is visiting the grave of Kleist and Grass writes &quot;On the way to the grave, Madeleine [Fonty's illegitimate French granddaughter]had already picked a few flowers, or rather, flowering weeds.  She added them to the faded wreaths.  If you did not confine yourself to the lake, veiled in gray, you could catch a glimpse of the city's fashionable outskirts, a large expanse of villas set amidst lawns and trees, and hidden among them a particular villa, once the site of the Wannsee Conference, now a museum of terror, awaiting visits from schoolchildren.&quot;  Shortly after a father explains about Kleist's murder-suicide:  &quot;Well, first the two of them had themselves a nice picnic here, and they didn't do the shooting till they were finished...&quot;  This is a subtle novel, which deserves close reading.	2001-01-25
US	52562171	R2DAT0JTQG0GA3	0802047335	186499234	Mackenzie King and the Prairie West	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	What does the discipline of Canadian history need?  To quote Samuel Gompers it needs more, more of everything.  More social history, more comparative history, more economic history, and, in this case, more political history.  Wardhaugh's book seeks to show that the decline of the Liberal Party in the West is not so much the fault of Pearson or Trudeau, but that its roots could be seen in the era of William Lyon Mckenzie King (leader 1919-1948, prime minister 1921-1926, 1926-1930, 1935-1948).  According to Wardhaugh, King was sympathetic, in a vague romantic way, to the West in the twenties when he needed the support of the Third party progressives to hold power.  However he lost sympathy for it when the West's poverty in the depression threatened his support for economic orthodoxy.  In defense of this book, one could say that it gives a throurough account of the many splits and factional problems that King had to deal with on both a federal and provincial level.  In this respect it fills a niche.  We are given plenty of quotations from King's diaries and papers which show his pompousness, narrow-mindedness, smugness and callous indifference to every issue and principle except maintaining power. <br />Yet ultimately the book is deeply flawed.  The book is oddly proportioned as well, devoting 127 pages from 1919 to 1930, 67 pages from 1930 to 1940, and 33 pages for the last eight years of King's ministry.  The problem is not that King's policies were good for the West.  The question that arises is whether they were any better for the rest of the country.  If not, then the flaws of these policies cannot explain why the West was especially alienated from the Liberals.  After all the Liberals have been competitive in Ontario despite having only governed the province five years since 1943.  The Atlantic provinces are worse off in Confederation than the prairie ones, but that has not weaned them off liberalism.  Why would conscription and the problem of postwar reconstruction be any less pressing in the rest of English Canada in 1945 than in the West?  Yet according to Wardhaugh any disaffection was markedly less permanent.  Wardhaugh points out that organization was weak, yet the Progressives in the twenties showed an almost continuous decline, while the conservatives were almost always in desperate straights before 1958.  Other parties in other regions have been bothered by factionalism, yet have made up enough to win elections.  Liberal politicians may have been anaemic, but were the other parties any less mediocre?  King did not really know about the West, but as the career of Ronald Reagan shows, you do not always need real knowledge.  The problem is that Wardhaugh consistently takes up a &quot;high politics&quot; approach which ignores questions at the base.  Who voted for the liberals?  What were their class, ethnic, religious and occupational background?  How did they approach politics, what were the ideological assumptions, what were the material basis of their partisanship?<br />Another problem is that the Liberals actually put in a creditable performance in 1926, 1935, 1940 and 1949, which does not really match Wardhaugh's constant pessimism.  By constantly reminding the reader of the Liberal party's ultimate fate he produces an illusion of inevitability, and he reduces much of the Liberal party's problems to King's obtuseness and the obtuseness of a few leaders.  (His notes consist largely of King's diaries and papers, supplemented by the papers of Crerar, Gardiner and Dafoe).  His treatment of issues is consistently unimiginative and conventional.  The three prairie provinces are reduced simply to agriculture.  No mention is made of increasing urbanization or economic diversification, and the problems of the prairie farmer are reduced to one issue, tariffs, with an occasional mention of freight rates.  Why were nativist appeals successful against the liberals in 1929 and 1930, and what does this say about western political culture?  Often Wardhaugh glibly speaks of public opinion in the West, as if it was an undifferentiated mass.  (When you look at the notes it is largely just Dafoe complaining.)  That King was an unimiginative leader is not in dispute, but Dafoe and Dunning, Bracken and Brownlee were not much better or more thoughtful.  Like it or not, there was a market for incantations of balanced budgets and economic orthodoxy in the West, in patent definance of overwhelming economic catastrophe.  In the West you had to suffuse this with a some regional self-pity, some cant against &quot;established parties,&quot;  and a little &quot;reformist&quot; goobledygook.  Perhaps that helps to explain why Diefenbaker, a politician with more rhetoric than competence, would be so successful in the future.	2001-01-25
US	52562171	R2K8NAA72CE3NG	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A brilliant synthesis, worth four and a half stars.	It would be hard to think of many historians who could attempt to write a work of this calibers.  Yet Hobsbawn's schema of the Age of Catastrophe, the Golden Age and the Landslide has increasingly achieved canonical status.  Naturally any work of this sort has some weaknesses.  Here are some weaknesses:  failure to give Indian democracy and Japanese society their full due, as well as a failure to explain the catastrophic failure of the African economy.  There is a  failure in the age of the landslide, to discuss China's economic boom.  Hobsbawm refers to Spain as a &quot;peripheral&quot; part of Europe, a statement that reflects less a European viewpoint than an English one, and he tends to overstate the Keynesian consensus, which as books by Nelson Lichtenstein, Steve Fraser and Sanford Jacoby have pointed out, showed clear weaknesses in the United States as early as the forties.  <br />But then are the strengths:  a brilliant chapter on the social revolution, dealing with the dissolution of the peasantry and the fate of working class consciousness.  There is an excellent chapter on the cultural revolution.  There is a fine chapter on the slow death of the avant-garde.  There are Hobsbawm's own cameos through the book, such as taking a rather philistine attitude towards surrealists in the thirties, being surprised at how small Stalin's corpse was when on public view in the fifties, and listening to Oscar Lange's desperate deathbed plea on the fate of the Soviet experiment.  (&quot;If I had been in Russia in the 1920s, I would have been a Bukharinite gradualist.  If I had advised on Soviet industrialization, I would have recommended a more flexible and limited set of targets, as indeed the able Russian planners did.  And yet, as I think back, I ask myself, again and again:  was there an alternative to the indiscriminate, brutal, basically unplanned rush forward of the first Five Year Plan?  I wish I could say there was, but I cannot.  I cannot find an answer.&quot;)There are two chapters which provide an excellent autopsy on the Soviet experiment, all the more intelligent when one considers that Hobsbawm belonged to the British Communist Party to the very end.  And finally there is Hobsbawm's conclusion, where he points out that we cannot continue the titantic and radical changes of the past two centuries indefinitely.  We face profound ecological and social crisis:  &quot;If humanity is to have a recognizable future, it cannot be by prolonging the past or the present.  If we try to build the third millenium on that basis, we shall fail.  And the price of failure, that is to say, the alternative to a changed society, is darkness.&quot;	2001-01-02
US	52562171	RF4K94V9E2P0J	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	2	34	59	N	N	Cunning manipulative middlebrow entertainment	Whatever one might else say about Margaret Atwood, there is no doubt she's a professional.  She is a skillful, cunning manipulative writer.  But whereas other writers use modernist techniques to reach a deeper insight, Atwood uses them to evade fundamental questions.  Here are two examples.  1) At one point Offred has a meeting with the chauffeur who will impregnate her because Offred's master, Fred, is sterile.  Atwood provides three versions of this meeting which introduces a note of fashionable uncertainty while hiding her inability to discuss real intimacy.  2) At the end of the book, Offred is being taken away from Fred's house.  It is not clear whether she is being liberated or arrested, and the book concludes with a pompous academic conference that does not clarify the matter.  The conference is obviously a joke on Atwood's part.  The problem I have is that Offred could not have written the account that concludes her story until after the events took place, and where she would have a reasonable idea of what happened to her.  Atwood may find it intriguing to leave the matter in doubt, but a real political prisoner would not play this sort of modernist game.<br />In general, Atwood's dystopia plays on women's fears, but does not enlighten or elucidate them.  She chose an easy target in attacking American fundamentalism, whose illiberalism, parochialism and paranoia make them fair game.  But in her account of making women victims she is subtly stacking the deck.  She uses analogies from Nazism and slavery which, on second glance, are quite tendentious.  For example the regime comes about because Congress and the Cabinet have been assasinated and a military regime claims it was done by foreign terrorists.  But are Americans really quite that naive?  The imposition of a misogynist state supposedly happens step by step, sort of like the path towards the Holocaust.  But it is one thing for Germans to fail to realize the fate of 1% of their countrymen and for Americans to fail to recognize the fate of 50% of their own families.  Likewise, it is hard to imagine any modern state that would want to dramatically shrink the workforce and cut the literacy rate in half.  In Atwood's Gilead, women are forbidden to read, an idea which Atwood obviously got from slave code prohibitions against literacy.  But this ignores the fact that American Evangelicalism prides itself on bringing the bible to the masses.  To prevent women from reading the bible goes against their fundamental principles.  Indeed, renaming the country is another &quot;off&quot; thing, given the intense patriotism of American Fundamentalists.  And why would they rename the country &quot;Gilead,&quot; as in &quot;there is no balm in&quot;?  I can't help but note that Atwood does not take the demographic crisis Gilead faces with all due seriousness.  After all, a 90%-95% sterility rate implies extinction.  Most people would support conscription to fight off an enemy that would do that.  Is conscripting women's wombs so really out of the question?  It is at least an argument that should be taken more seriously.  Finally Atwood does not deal with the fact that most churchgoers in Western countries are female.  This brings in questions of complicity that Atwood simply ignores.  Ultimately, this is middlebrow entertainment.	2001-01-02
US	52562171	RDRN5I6Z199LA	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Magisterial, a model biography	The second volume of Kershaw's biography of Hitler cements his reputation as one of the finest historians of modern Germany.  Throrough and definitive on every topic, scrupulously and fulsomely annotated, with many brilliant passages, Kershaw's life is not simply the definitive account of a dictator, but of the society that created him and the world he ravaged.  Most biographies simply concentrate on the man and elide the background that made him possible.  Kershaw's book, by contrast, is superb in noting both the extent to which he influenced Germany and the way larger trends and forces affected his actions.  <br />Particuarly valuable is Kershaw's concept of &quot;working towards the Fuhrer,&quot; and the idea of cumulative radicalization.  With full acknowledgements to his scholarly mentors and colleagues Martin Broszat and Hans Mommsen, Kershaw notes how Hitler systematically undermined the normal structures of German government.  The cabinet did not meet after 1938, the bureaucratic structures lost their authority, and months would go by as Hitler ignored vital issues and instead let competing factions fight it out among themselves. As a result crucial questions like the move towards a war economy in 1937 occurred not by design but as a result of this chaotic regime.  The result was that Nazi Germany, apparently the heir to the cruel efficiency of Prussian bureaucracy, had an amazingly flawed bureaucratic regime.  The victory of America, Britain and Russia over Italy, Japan and Germany was as much a victory of superior bureaucracy as it was of armies.  Kershaw notes how Nazi officials squabbles among themselves and how they spent six months inconclusively debating whether to ban horse racing.  Germany did not even try to solve its critical labor shortages by getting rid of domestic servants until the last few months of war, and by then vested interests made sure that it would be largely ineffective.<br />The consequence was to encourage the most radical groupsamong the Nazis and those who supported the most vicious alternatives.  It was radicals who took the initiative in the anti-Church struggle and it was their momentum which led to Krystallnacht, the ghettoization and Poland, and ultimately the Holocaust.  This is not to say that Hitler did not order or encourage the Holocaust.  On this issue he was the most radical of the radicals, even if it was Heydrich who was crucial to putting it into practice.  &quot;It had consisted of authorizing more than directing.&quot; says Kershaw.  But his account of how the genocide combined a dialectic of local initiative, central authority and wide government consensus, as we move from the euthanasia program to the first Polish atrocities, to the abandonment of the Madagascar Plan to the Einzatzgruppen and the setting up of the extermination camps, provides an account that makes horrible, yet scholarly impeccable reading.<br />One area where Hitler did have a large amount of authority was on military strategy, and Kershaw provides a nuanced account of Hitler's skill as a military leader.  As a military leader Hitler's intuitiions were no worse than Stalin's and Churchill's.  On questions like the reoccupation of the Rhineland, the attack on Czechoslovakia and the successful war against France Hitler was successful despite the opposition of much of the military.  In his largest single mistake, the attack on the Soviet Union, the military shared his dangerous over-optimism.  What hampered Hitler as a military leader was not so much his flaws but an ideological fanaticism that prevented him from taking other people's advice and from delegating authority.  Even worse than this was a hatred of the Soviet Union which led Hitler to start a war that would have been extremely difficult for him to win.  After he started losing his belligerent refusals to retreat may have hastened German defeat.  But after Stalingrad and definitely after Kursk he could not have possibly have won and the major problem with his military strategy is that any negotiated peace would have required his removal.  For obvious reasons this was not an option for Hitler.<br />And so we go to the final pages as Kershaw details how Germany was bombed into rubble while Hitler continued his Wagnerian rantings.  Gradually the area under his control slips away and his followers fall away or are cut off and we see the final pathetic man behind the hideously empty solipsist.  Hitler, Kershaw properly reminds us, was not insane.  This makes his death at least, somewhat more satisfying.	2000-12-29
US	52562171	R1KE1RCVQ1I0WA	0807825719	808422189	The Counterrevolution of Slavery: Politics and Ideology in Antebellum South Carolina	Books	4	38	40	N	N	An important contribution	The historiography of secession is a complex one.  For much of the last century there had been a tendency for historians to underplay the importance of slavery as a cause of the American civil war.  Certaintly neo-Confederate apologists have sought to euphemize the cause of the conflict to an issue over tariffs, to matters of states rights, or to the &quot;extremism&quot; of the abolitionists.  It is quite clear that these excuses will not survive a reading of this book.  Sinha clearly shows, in her examination of South Carolina secessionism from nullifaction to fort Sumter, that slavery was the essence of its concerns.  To show this she looks at the nullification crisis, the Mexican war, the Compromise of 1850, the South Carolinian movement to reopen the slave trade, and the secession crisis, based on exhaustive research of no less than 137 sets of private papers and diaries.<br />But Sinha wishes not simply to refute the academically unimportant group of neo-Calhounites.  She wishes to argue something broader.  The South Carolinian defense of slavery was not, as many serious historians suggest today, simply the working out of the Southern American view of liberty.  Increasingly, Sinha argues, South Carolina pro-slavery thought was not the expression of Southern Republicanism, but increasingly its very negation.  It was not a coincidence that secessionism was strongest in South Carolina, the only state by 1832 where presidential electors and the governor were not popularly elected, where the legislature was crudely malapportioned, and where local offices were limited by the state government.  It was also not a coincidence that slaves were a majority of South Carolinians, and slaveholders nearly a majority of South Carolinian whites.  And it certainly was not a coincidence that non-slaveholders were noticeably less enthusiastic for nullification, secession in 1851 and secession in 1861.<br />But although Southern nationalist discourse was clearly elitist and pro-slavery, does Sinha show that it was counter-revolutionary?  A certain opposition to democracy was evident after all in the many, perhaps most, of the founding fathers.  But as Sinha points out leading Carolinians like Calhoun, Senator James Chesnut and the creepy, incestuous James Hammond all sneered at the Declaration of Independence.  She quotes one bravado warping PatricK Henry to declare &quot;Give me Slavery or give me death.&quot;  Notwithstanding the views of some historians to the contrary the South Carolinians criticized the North less for its oppression of wage laborers than the possiblity that those laborers could vote themselves into power.  They did not condemn Lincoln as an intolerant Protestant but as a dangerous socialist and feminist.   Moreover, they were not slow to raise the Nativist card against the immigrants who were bolstering the North's population.  Calhoun's idea of a concurrent majority was not a thoughtful protection of minority rights, but a way to prevent one minority, his own, from ever being outvoted.  Once the Confederacy was set up the elite dispensed with political parties.  Looking at South Carolina they also began to dispense with competitive elections, while its ruthless elite certainly did not act sentimentally (or even decently) towards opinions on slavery.   <br />In conclusion there have been many frauds and bullies in American political life:  the Nixons, the Hoovers, the McCarthys, the Tillmans and the Bilbos.  But much of their malignancy was purely personal and they never threatened the core ideals of the republic.  Calhoun was different, very different.  Extremely intelligent, he was also utterly principled, and absolutely ruthless in carrying out that one principle.  The problem was that the principle, despite all the complications of honor and paternalism, was slavery.  More so than anyone else, Calhoun was the greatest enemy of liberty and freedom the United States ever had.  Sinha's book is an important contributionto understanding that.	2000-12-29
US	52562171	R3RX669U0ZUEAL	006019314X	108696261	Hirohito And The Making Of Modern Japan	Books	4	15	18	N	N	An important book that lets us look at fundamental questions	The Showa Dictatorship was responsbile for the deaths of millions of people.  It treated prisoners of wars with tortures as foul as any in Dachau or Koloyma.  It was a pioneer in forced prostitution and mass rape.  Thousands of Chinese prisoners alone were slaughtered in experiments to create one of the world's most advanced biological weapons.  Yet the commerical, political and intellectual elites were given the equivalent of a slap on the wrist and reintegrated into the new Japanese democracy.  And no one benefited more from this peculiar brand of Conservative Mercy that the son of heaven, the divine emperor Hirohito.  Herbert Bix provides an invaluable account of the man and his regime.<br />Since the end of the war the official story from the palace was that Hirohito was nothing but a constitutional monarch who had no choice but to ratify the increasingly insane and fanatical measures of his militaristic ministers.  This was the view propogated by General Douglas MacArthur and by biographers such as Nicholas Mosley and Stephen Large.  After reading this book such views will no longer be tenable.  Now it is important to point out that Hirohito was not like Hitler or Mussolini.  Whereas those two had an insane lust for power, Hirohito was self-effacing in the extreme.  Slightly spastic, very short and awkwardly dressed, had Hirohito not been a prince he might have made a compotent biology instructor at a second rate community college.  Hirohito was not an absolute dictator.  But he was the most powerful player in a polyocracy involving the army, fascist militarists, business elites, aristocrats and parliamentary politicians.<br />What does Bix specifically allege?  Bix points out that Hirohito's education was consistently authoritarian and undemocratic.  None of his advisors and politicians were democrats, and the &quot;Taisho democracy,&quot; consisted of two identical pro-business parties that vied with each other in pro-imperial fervor and suppressed all republican and leftist sentiment.  Clearly something was rotten with Japanese society when thousands of harmless Koreans were lynched after the great Tokyo earthquake in the mid-twenties.  Hirohito was not in the vanguard for aggression and war (his brother were even worse), but he approved every step from the Mukden incident to the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Moreover he showed no outrage, subversion and aggression committed in his name.  His coronation reinforced his autocratic power and the myth of his divinity.  Almost certainly aware of the rape of Nanking, but doing nothing to stop it, Hirohito promoted the militarists and fascists who accelerated the pace towards dictatorship and war.  Whereas Mosley says Hirohito never forgave General Tojo for deceiving him about military defeats, Bix provides a good case that Tojo was in fact Hirohito's favorite prime minister.  He certainly took the inititative in making his prime minister, when both the outgoing prime minister and Tojo himself recommended a more moderate person in the crucial months before Pearl Harbor.  Once the Pacific War was underway Hirohito constantly pushed not for peace but for further offensives.  Indeed he was culpably blind in failing to see that after Midway Japan was condemned to slow but certain defeat.  Moreover Hirohito shared the responsibility for delaying Japan's surrender for half a year as he and others pursued chimerical hopes of winning a final decisive battle.<br />Throughout the war the Japanese had been starved by their leaders in pursuit of victory, they had been ordered to committ mass suicide at Okinawa and Saipan and after the surrender the government proposed recruiting hundreds of women to serve as official state prostitutes for the American army.  Yet after the defeat Hirohito and his circle blamed the Japanese people and their &quot;selfishness&quot; and &quot;individualism,&quot; and not himself and his ministers for being completely out of their depth.  Bix details how Hirohito,the prosecution and MacArthur occupying force helped fix the Tokyo War Crimes Trial so that he would not be implicated.  Bix goes on to discuss his opposition to the most democratic and pacific aspects of the new Japanese goverment, while the media played up a false image of him as a progressive and constitutional monarch.<br />Bix's book is not perfect.  It is somewhat repetitive, and unlike Ian Kershaw's volume on Hitler, it cannot serve as a history of the protagonist's country.  There are only brief discussions of the spread of emperor worship, and we have a much simpler portrait of Japanese public opinion than what we have about Germany.  A person reading this book would not know why democracy was so limited and why there was so little resistance within Japan to its imperialism and aggression; nor would they know there was so little outrage at its crimes.  But in clarifying the emperor's role Bix has moved us beyond apologetic accounts and moved forward to new issues.  For we have to understand that the Showa Dictatorship was not just a cruel regime.  It was an evil regime, fully worthy of sustained moral analysis as Hitler's and Stalin's and as much a symbol of poisoned modernity as those two.  And when we see the joy of exterminating others in the mirror of alternative modernities, we cannot be sure that we are immune from the Showa's Dictatorship's temptations.	2000-12-25
US	52562171	R2FR74X3M4KB10	1564782476	65487589	I the Supreme (Latin American Literature Series)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A novel of the highest importance	There are three great novels about the Latin American dictator and all of them are very different.  Miguel Asturias' Mr. President deals with a backwater banana republic where the president for life's presence itself is minor.  What occurs instead is the lethal working out of a hideously unjust system which crushes and destroys all who resist and those who are caught in its clutches.  Then there is Gabriel Garcia Marquez's The Autumn of the Patriarch, an example of high modernism at its most brilliant.  In sentences of increasingly serpentine length (in the end consisting of the final chapter of forty-five pages) Garcia Marquez deals with an aged dictator who has ruled for centuries and is capable of every iniquity (such as serving up a cabinet minister for his treacherous colleagues to eat) while living in a world of pretend power and real submission (he has to sell his country's sea to pay off the Americans).  This book is also high modernist, but is very different.  Instead of the fantastic elements of the Autumn of the Patriarch we have here the story of the founder of Paraguay, Dr. Francia.  Dr. Francia consolidated his country's independence by creating a regime of isolation and absolute power.  He expelled the Jesuits and set up his own Catholic Church so it would not be beholden to Rome.  He was utterly ruthless and the result, according to E. Bradford Burns was an autarky that probably benefited the masses more in terms of literacy and nutrition than any other Latin American country of the time.  Its fate, however, was to be crushed by the surrounding countries in the great war of 1870-73 where the male population was almost literally devastated.<br />No venal tinpot hack, Dr. Francia appears as a man of frightening sincerity, in an account that is of direct revelance to the fate of Castro's Cuba.  I, the Supreme begins with a proclamation in which the dicators calls for the decapitation of his corpse and the lynching of all his ministers.  It continues with tales of prisoners forced to live in boats travelling down the rivers of Paraguay without ever stopping.  We read of Francia's dialogue with a sycophantic Vicar General (&quot;How long did the trial of the infamous traitors to the Fatherland last?  As long as it was necessary in order not to rush to judgement.  They were granted every right to defend themselves.  In the end every recourse was exhausted.  It might be said that the case was never closed.  It is still open.  Not all the guilty parties were sentenced to death and executed.&quot;), who then goes on to condemn his priests for siring dozens and hundreds of illegitimate children.  Like Lenin and indeed Stalin he rants against the jungle of bureaucracy that he himself has created, he outsmarts the greedy surrounding oligarchies who wish to absorb Paraguay, he reminds his civil servants not to express and exploit the Indian population.  We read reports of how school children are indoctrinated to see their great leader (&quot;The Supreme Government is very old.  Older than the Lord God, that our schoolmaster...tells us about in a low voice.)  The book is a masterpiece of polyphony, filled with many voices and viewpoints, combined with a richness of metaphor and incident and a complexity of moral vision that have few competitors this century.  Writing for a country that has possessed only brief and shadowy vestiges of liberty, Roa Bastos deals with its pain in a way that should be required reading for all who care about democracy.	2000-12-21
US	52562171	R1F03L9XPJB237	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Imagine:  a movie where You will be played by Tom Cruise	This brilliant, funny, ingenious, unusual and amazingly inventive novel is one of the finest to be written anywhere in the world since the war.  On the first page we are introduced to an persistent, thorough, thoughtful person who is intelligent and ...  attractive.  That person is You.  You are about to read Italo Calvino's If on a Winter's Night a Traveller.  On the first page You are about to read and the narrator tells You how to sit down, how to adjust the light, make sure You have cigarettes nearby in case You smoke.  You soon encounter Calvino's wonderful lists.  (My favorite one is list of categories of Books, such as Books You Haven't Read, Books You Needn't Read; Books that if You Had more than One Life You would Certainly also Read But Unfortunately Your Days are Numbered;  Books You Mean to Read But There are Others You Must Read First, and The Books that Everbody's Read So It's As If You Had Read Them too.)  You start reading If on a Winter's Night a Traveller, and You find it is the tale of intrigue in a railway station, but just as it gets interesting You find the first 16 pages have been reprinted over and over again.  You go to the bookstore and you are given the correct novel, which is not in fact the Correct novel at all but an interesting tale of Polish village intrigue called &quot;Outside the Town of Malbrok.&quot;  And just as this book gets interesting you find that the pages have been all bound together.  And You go and find Yourself going back to the bookstore and finding a new novel, different from the previous two novels and go on until You find there are ten separate opening chapters and the various foul-ups and printing errors and mistakes are all the result of a fiending conspiracy against literature.  In the course of the novel You meet a wonderful woman named Ludmilla who You will eventually marry...  And at the end You will find yourself at one of the best happy endings of all of literature with a perfect closing line.  There is noexcuse for not reading this book.	2000-12-21
US	52562171	ROBFXJVRN3WHO	0671028464	572190054	Barney's Version	Books	2	13	26	N	N	A dissenting voice	Barney Panofsky is a bitter old man who fears death and senility, rants about the world in a &quot;politically correct&quot; manner, and ruminates about his past.  Among the things he ruminates about are his three failed marriages and his best friend, whom Panofsky may have murdered after finding him in bed with the Second Mrs. Panofsky.  The victim himself has vanished into thin air.  In a way this book about bitter memories is sort of like Celine.  Only without the hatred.  And without the pain.  And also, come to think of it, without the insight or the verbal genius or the moral seriousness and quite frankly without the talent as well.  For all of Panofsky's rants he does not say, or think anything that is truly vile and unforgiveable.  Indeed, following Everyone Says I Love You, we have an offspring we becomes bullying conservative only to be straightened out with more moderate opinions at the end of the novel.<br />I can't truly explain the flaw of this book without giving away the mystery of whether Panofsky is a murderer or not.  Let's just say Richler has never been brutally honest with himself in the past and he is not now.  Much of this book looks at easy targets:  shrill academic feminist ideologues, a black anti-Semite who impregnated the first Mrs. Panofsky, the venality and bigotry of Francophone Quebec.  I find it interesting that the black anti-Semite is not some ignorant creep but actually is more a James Baldwin type (he first meets Panofsky and Panofsky's Jewish wife in Paris).  So why did not become an anti-Semite?  An interesting question, but not one Richler shows any interest in answering.  And speaking as a law student I find Richler's presentation of Panofsky's trial before a rural French jury cheap, inaccurate and insulting.  Richler has never shown much understanding, sympathy or interest in Montreal's French majority but here he is being clearly manipulative.  One can imagine lawyers being cheap and unscrupulous.  But would a defense lawyer who is trying to argue that Panofsky's supposed victim was never murdered try to slip in an innuendo suggesting that this was a crime passionnel?  Wouuld a prosecutor whose victim was far more dissolute and bohemian than Panofsky try to link Panofsky to Trotsky and &quot;decadent cosmopolitans&quot;?  And Richler seems unaware of a crucial point:  in order to convict someone of first degree murder in Canada you do not actually need to produce the body.  In fact there was a famous case on this point in the decade the trial is taking place.  So when Panofsky's lawyer tries to obfuscate this position in his summing up, he would have been very smartly slapped down by both the prosecutor (who would have followed him) and the trial judge.<br />As it happens Panofsky is not acquitted because of this but because a leading Catholic bishop gives a testimonial on his behalf.  Panofsky, a journalist, had written some hack work on the bishop's sainted aunt who is, of course, a superstitious anti-Semite.  And since the jurors are all priest-ridden rednecks they automatically acquit him.  I have two problems with this.  First off the Catholic Church of Quebec may be accused of being philistine and bigoted.  Venal and corrupt it is not:  the princes of the church did not get their good reputation by seducing their housemaids, embezzling the offertory funds, or giving helpful testimony so that crooks and murderers could get off scot free.  Second, at the time the trial takes place (1959 or so) Catholic attendance at communion was falling from 80% to 25% over a couple of decades.  Would all twelve jurors simply follow their bishop's say so? In the end Panofsky's son asks what he should think about his possibly murderous father.  He is told he should just think he was his father.  With all due respect, I don't really think that Richler himself would show such equinamity on learning his father was a murderer.  In the end, sentimentality wins.er who is trying to argue that Panofsky's supposed victim was never murdered try to slip in an innuendo suggesting that this was a crime passionnel?  Wouuld a prosecutor whose victim was far more dissolute and bohemian than Panofsky try to link Panofsky to Trotsky and &quot;decadent cosmopolitans&quot;?  And Richler seems unaware of a crucial point:  in order to convict someone of first degree murder in Canada you do not actually need to produce the body.  In fact there was a famous case on this point in the decade the trial is taking place.  So when Panofsky's lawyer tries to obfuscate this position in his summing up, he would have been very smartly slapped down by both the prosecutor (who would have followed him) and the trial judge.<br />As it happens Panofsky is not acquitted because of this but because a leading Catholic bishop gives a testimonial on his behalf.  Panofsky, a journalist, had written some hack work on the bishop's sainted aunt who is, of course, a superstitious anti-Semite.  And since the jurors are all priest-ridden rednecks they automatically acquit him.  I have two problems with this.  First off the Catholic Church of Quebec may be accused of being philistine and bigoted.  Venal and corrupt it is not:  the princes of the church did not get their good reputation by seducing their housemaids, embezzling the offertory funds, or giving helpful testimony so that crooks and murderers could get off scot free.  Second, at the time the trial takes place (1959 or so) Catholic attendance at communion was falling from 80% to 25% over a couple of decades.  Would all twelve jurors simply follow their bishop's say so? In the end Panofsky's son asks what he should think about his possibly murderous father.  He is told he should just think he was his father.  With all due respect, I don't really think that Richler himself would show such equinamity on learning his father was a murderer.  In the end, sentimentality wins.	2000-12-21
US	52562171	R2SCFY0XSUC5AA	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Exquisite	For many people Invisible Cities is their favorite Calvino novel.  While it is not quite mine (I prefer If on a Winter's Night a Traveller and The Baron in the Trees) no one would deny this book's singular beauty and charm.  Marco Polo and Kublai Khan discuss a host of cities, which are in fact all just one city.  In a series of exquisite tales, Calvino tells of Cities and memory, Cites and desire, Cities and signs, Thin cities, Trading Cities, Cities and Eyes, Cities and Names, Cities and the Dead, Cities and the Sky, Continuous Cities, Hidden Cities, all arranged in such a manner as to remind one of Pascal and Fibonnaci.<br />Calvino's ingenuity is striking.  There is the memory city of Isidora, the dreamed off city of youthful passion and pleasure which is only encountered by the old who remember it.   There is the stilt city of Thin Zenobia.  There is the city of Eusapia who made beneath it an underground necropolis for its dead who in turn has so influenced the surface that one can no longer tell who is alive or dead. There is the continous city of Leonia which throws out everything each day and replaces it with the completely new.  I think my favorite is the hidden city of Theodora, which after successfully exterminating all the vermin, found itself plagued with sphinxes, unicorns, hydras and basilisks.  An unforgettable book.	2000-12-21
US	52562171	R3NOT9BQWKNHJF	0300082266	710989731	From Ellis Island to JFK: New York`s Two Great Waves of Immigration	Books	3	21	28	N	N	Useful, if not brilliant	This book is useful, though not brilliant.  It provides a comparison between the great wave of Jewish and Italian immigrants to New York at the turn of the last century, and the present wave of immigrants from Asia, Latin America and the former Soviet Union.  Foner's account look at where immigrants live, how they work, immigrant women in particular, the sting of prejudice, the matter of ties to the old country and going to school.  She seeks to refute the view which uses the success of the first wave and selected members of the second wave as a stick to beat everyone else.  By and large she succeeds.  She reminds us that one reason why many Asian-American have excellent education and social mobility records in the United States is because they were well educated members of the middle class back in Asia.  She points out that it took a couple of generations before Jews experienced middle class status and high school graduation.  She reminds us that despite fears of America becoming increasingly balkanized new immigrants are more &quot;american&quot; than previous waves because of the world of mass culture.  There are nuanced discussions about the mixed blessings of wage labor and increased independence.  There is an interesting chapter on how Jews and Italians were viewed in the past as non-white, and how Asians and Hispanics are becoming increasingly &quot;white.&quot;  There is much in here that counters the widespread moralistic underclass discourses that have made The New Republic the fashionable magazine of our day's Vanity Fair.  There is a nuanced discussion of the effect immigrants have on black employment.  Some pundits, shedding crocodile tears for African-Americans suggest they would be better off if immigrants were not taking their jobs.  But in fact, as Foner points out, many immigrants are not directly displacing blacks because they work in niches where blacks either were rarely employed or actually excluded.  On the other hand, working in sweatshop jobs often makes them less attractive to native workers and helps lower wage rates.  Often employers use stereotypes to immigrants' benefits and blacks' detriment.  On the other hand by increasing the New York population they encourage African American strength in public employment and stop the decline in business that comes from a falling population.  So why does this book only get three stars?  Well, many of its insights aren't particularly new, that they may be a revelation to readers does not mean they are to people who study the topic.  There is little about politics of immigrants, either electorally or through such measures as unions.  There could be more about class in the book, both within immigrant communities and within the problem of New York as a whole.  It is not that the subject goes unmentioned but it is noteworthy that there is no entry under the index for &quot;Gulliani.&quot;  The result is nourishing, but bland; it could use a little more bite.	2000-12-09
US	52562171	RIZD5Q1MWK8ZI	0465090753	677130322	Fables Of Abundance: A Cultural History Of Advertising In America	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Excellent, and counterintuitive	Most people find advertising very irritating.  This is not only understandable, but necessary and just.  But what is it about advertising that should put one's teeth on edge?  It is easy to believe that advertising encourages a world of greed and gaudy consumerism, a life of sterile self-indulgence.  This was the view of the great American critic Thorstein Veblen.  But one should avoid this temptation.   In this book Jackson Lears provides a book that is not only revelatory about advertising but will help the reader about culture, nostalgia, memory, even life itself. <br />Lears, a historian who is not afraid to quote Marxists, agrees with Adorno that Veblen's attack on consumerism was an &quot;attack against culture.&quot;   Veblen represented a puritanical producerism that did not recognize the aesthetic and imaginative elements of consumption.  Lears throughout this subtle and evocative book argues that advertising did not present the triumph of hedonism, but in fact the regulation of consumption to a strict regime of productivity, a trade-off between &quot;routinized labor and zestful consumption.&quot;  The book does not follow a simple narrative.  But it does provide a fascinating account with many pregant apercus about the cold presence of an inhumane positivism, as well as the flaws of both the jargon of authenticity and the New York Intellectuals conflation of politics and style.  Starting with the image of the breast and the cornocopia, and going on to the illusions of the Plain speech tradition, Lears looks not only at advertisements, but also cites much literature and theory to help him along.  Melville, Dreiser, James  and Proust are all invoked, Little Nemo and Krazy Kat are properly praised, coming to a benediction looking at the special achievement of Joseph Cornell and his boxes.  Some readers of this review may find this summary pretentious, but those who go on to read Lears will find much that is truly revelatory.	2000-11-17
US	52562171	R2JHAZNYCP9OTA	0312216807	783632251	Poland Between the Wars, 1918-1939	Books	2	11	28	N	N	Less a scholarly history than a nationalist one.	This slim volume consists of  six essays, one on the historiography of the Second Polish Republic, two on the post-independence strife, one on treatment of ethnic minorities, one on freedom of the press in Poland and one on Poland's defence preparations in 1939.  The subjects are narrow and they are discussed in an apologetic manner on behalf of the conservative authoritarian leaders who ruled Poland during the twenties and thirties.  The book is representative of a larger problem in Central European historiography.  Historians of France, Germany, Italy, Russia, or Spain will recognize that these countries are often divided by class, ethnicity, religion, region, political persuasion and a large number of other factors.  People who are not particularly sympathetic to these countries will still study them because they are intrinsically important.  There is a certain expectation that historians will learn foreign languages, and historians will learn Italian, French, German or Russian without necessarily being enamoured of the nationality's government.<br />By contrast people who study Poland are likely to be highly sympathetic to Poland and are likely to study under Polish emigre scholars.  The problem that arises is that many of these scholars are sympathetic to an authoritarian regime.  And no matter how better the Second Polish republic may been compared to the Postwar Communist regime, support for authoritarianism does not encourage the critical approach needed to study history.  It also means that one is studying under scholars who are not only very conservative, but are also unimaginative historically.  The result is that they will ignore every trend that has revolutionized history over the past forty years.  Gender, class, the revolution  in intellectual history, the whole complex history of nationality; all ignored in a narrow and apologetic concentration on diplomatic and political history.<br />The result of this can be best seen in Stachura's essay on National Minorities.  Stachura argues that if there was conflict between the government and the minorities, it was all the latter's fault.  In particular he says How does he go about this?  He does so by self-contradiction, omission, and question begging.  At one point he claims that the Jews isolated themselves from Polish society, at another he claims they dominated many leading professions.  He does not mention the prominent Polish cardinal who before 1939 linked the Jews to prostitution and white slavery (see Arno Mayer's Why the Heavens did not Darken).  He does not mention the post 1945 pogrom in Kielce.  And he does not mention General Sikorski's January 1942 meeting with Anthony Eden in which the General suggested to Eden that &quot;It is quite impossible...for Poland to continue to maintain 3.5 million Jews after the war.&quot;  (see Anita Prazmowska, Britain and Poland, 1939-1943:  the Betrayed Ally at 122).   He makes much of Jewish sympathies to Communism, although such support was electorally insignificant before 1939 and was dwarfed by Belorussian support.  The most astonishing passage in Stachura's account occurs on page 75.  He challenges the conduct of Zionist leader Yitshak Gruenbaum in the following way:  &quot;The destructive nature of Gruenbaum's creation was revealed all too starkly in December 1922, when it tipped the balance of botes in the presidential election in favour of the leftist candidate Gabriel Narutowicz, who was immediately stigmatized by the Right as a `Jewish president' and assasinated a few days later by an ultra-Nationalist.  The ensuing poisonous atmosphere in Polish political life, which threatened to break out into civil war, owed much, therefore, to the nefarious activity of Gruenbaum and his fellow Zionists...&quot;   One is struck by the sheer non-sequitur, in which it is the exercise of one's democratic rights, and not the foul political motiviated assassination, that is blamed for undermining civic harmony.  But it is all ofa piece with an author who could write of Gruenbaum that &quot;He exploited press freedom to mount his propaganda attacks,&quot;  a phrasing more suitable to Franco and Pinochet than of a scholar published by St. Martin's Press.  <br />Rather than reading Andrzej Suchcitz's indulgent essay on Poland's defence preparations, one should read  A. Prazmowska's tougher Britian, Poland and the Eastern Front, 1939.  She points out that the amazingly complacent attitude the British had on the vital question of getting Soviet aid, while the attitude of the Poles &quot;was not merely one of obduracy but even more so of unrelieved reality.&quot;  All in all we have not progressed beyond Antony Polonsky's study, now more than a quarter-century old.	2000-11-17
US	52562171	R3O9FQX32EJRE	0195077237	597311868	Mirrors of Destruction: War, Genocide, and Modern Identity	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Eccentric, worth three a half stars.	This is a somewhat eccentric book.  Bartov's most famous book, &quot;Hitler's Army,&quot; was a devastating emprical study of the complicity of the German Army in Hitler's crimes.  This is a somewhat more theoretical work, and its weaknesses show.  Much of it is construed from essays Bartov has written over the past few years.  The first chapter &quot;Fields of Glory&quot; deals essentially with Germany's path to the war and its subsequent self-pity.  The second chapter, &quot;Grand Illusions,&quot; does the same for France, while the third &quot;Elusive Enemies,&quot; deals with elusive enemies as an element in the rise of Nazism.  The fourth deals with &quot;apocalyptic visions,&quot; which argues that the persistence of utopia and apocalypse was also crucial to the existence of modern genocide.  A conclusion deals with the German novelist Bernhard Schlink's &quot;The Reader&quot; and a partial defnse of Binjamin Wilkomirski's controversial and probably fraudulent &quot;Fragments.&quot;<br />As the sum of these parts &quot;Mirrors of Destruction,&quot; leave much to be desired.  It is somewhat repetitive, (parts of chapters one and two are recapitulated in chapter three), and more important it is often abstract and vague.  Although it has excellent footnotes, with exhaustive references to the recent literature (oddly enough, only Peter Novick's The Holocaust in American Life, is missing) it is not clear that the books assist Bartov's argument.  As an example, in chapter three Bartov seeks to discuss the utopian impulse, and discusses such phenomenon as nostalgia of the past, the expansion of European influence, imperialism, Darwinism, the inherently totalitarian nature of gardening (I'm only slightly joking--see page 151), apocalyptic thought, Soviet totalitarianism, population control, capitalist overconfidence, the mass media and the rise of musuems, colonial cruelty, modern warfare, the crisis in modern historiography, scientic rationality and many others.  Themain problem with this list is that it dilutes the concept of utopia and apocalypse to something so ubiquitous, that it has no more explanatory power than the weather.  There are many questionable comments, such as on page 149 that &quot;universal utopia assumes the ultimate eradication of boundaries, between sexes or races, classes or faiths, the present and the future.&quot;  Now aside from the many utopian impulses who had no interest in doing any of those things, and confining ourselves to the Nazis who are the subject of this book, it is clear that they wished to reinforce boundaries between sexes, and their interest in removing class boundaries was substantly less in simply redefining them out of existence.  <br />At one point Bartov argues that the special agony of the Holocaust is that most of the perpetrators got off very lightly, while the survivors suffered from guilt over their &quot;good fortune.&quot;  But clearly this does not distinguish the Holocaust from a large number of atrocities which have been inadequately dealt with.  And survivors will feel guilty even after natural disasters where humanity could not be held responsible.  There is at times a certain sententiousness in Bartov's work, such as that which lead Peter Novick to comment that &quot;The problem with most of these lessons is not that they're wrong but that they're empty, and not very useful.&quot;  &quot;...what--short of moving to the woods--does one do with the `lesson' that the Holocaust is emblematic of modernity?&quot;  Likewise Bartov's account of German and French reactions to the Holocaust are not helped by his abstract and theoretical account.  Although Bartov offers qualifications, he also speaks of &quot;the Germans,&quot; and &quot;the French&quot; and speaks of complicity in such a way that the distinctions between anti-semitic thought and anti-semitic deed are conflated, as is anti-semitism and learning German and publishing under Vichy.  There are risks about such a promiscuous notion of complicity:  it could encourage an Anglo-American sense of superiority to the European continent.  Such reflections on evil has encouraged fatuous Christian apologists of the ilk of C.S. Lewis that 6 million Jews died so to vindicate the Christian doctrime of original sin.  Like most discussions of the horrors of the Twentieth century, Bartov does not really discuss the cruelties of the Showa Dictatorship (it gets a paragraph on page 138).  This I believe is a mistake:  Japan is not a minor country, Asia is not a minor continent, certainly not this century, and the millions of deaths attributable to the armies of the Rising Sun should not be ignored simply because their evil did not have the purity of essence of the Nazi or Armenian genocides.<br />What does give this book an importance larger than these flaws comes from Bartov's discussion of Israel's own tortured reaction to the Holocaust.  Instead of the account of France's failure to confront Vichy, which has become almost commonplace in the last two decades, we meet interesting accounts of Hannah Arendt, Raul Hilberg, Tzvetan Todorov, Wolfgang Sofsky, and Christopher Browning.  At the end of the fourth chapter we find a long discussion of the Israel writer Ka-Tzetnik.  Ka-Tzetnik is a juvenile writer, pornographic, mentally disturbed.  Yet his account provides a special knowledge of the atrocity not provided by any other writer.  More so than much discussion, Bartov's discussion gives at least a partial truth to his statement &quot;that when we look in the mirror of the Holocaust, we see our own reflection.&quot;	2000-10-29
US	52562171	RKF4R772B5963	046502968X	245330332	The Right To Vote: The Contested History Of Democracy In The United States	Books	4	65	74	N	N	A useful study	This is a book that will make you angry.  If you are a conservative, this book should make you feel very guilty.  It is important to begin with that this book is a detour from Keyssar's larger project, which was supposed to be a history of the American working class' electoral participation.  After struggling with the work for several years he realized that he needed to publish a whole book explaining what the right to vote actually was in American history.  The result is a history of the slow and uneven path to universal suffrage in American history.  We learn about the existence of the vote before 1776, the improvement that occured with the revolution, and the larger improvement that occured with the Jeffersonian/Jacksonian period in which the large majority of white men were able to vote.  At the same time we learn of efforts to counter the expanding suffrage, such as disfranchisement of free blacks all over the country before 1861, attacks on the voting rights of paupers, felons, migrants and aliens, as well as the disfranchisment in the early 1800s of the limited voting rights women had in the early 1800s. Keyssar then goes on to discuss the narrowing of the portals from the 1860s to the 1920s, periods ironically bounded by giving the vote to blacks in the 1870s and to women by the 1920s.  But in between that period nearly all blacks and many whites were disenfranchised in the south, while literacy, residence, nationality and registration systems sought to limit the vote in the North (while &quot;asiatics&quot; were barred in the west).  The book concludes with the successful passage of the Voting Rights Act and the twenty-sixth amendment, but also with low turnout, an extremely narrow political spectrum, and government structures which limit political participation and reinforce conservative values.<br />Much of this will not be new to historians, though never before has there been such detail and the twenty appendixes provided at the back will be invaluable for future reference.  Sometimes Keyssar gives a qualititative estimate of how many Americans could vote (he suggests that perhaps 60% of white Americans could vote before 1776, a figure much lower than the 80-90% posited by more Panglossian historians).  And there are many interesting details, such as the New York plan where registration was supposed to take place on Yom Kippur, conventiently leaving out many Jews.  But otherwise the full results have been reserved for his upcoming work.  This weakens his criticisms of American exceptionalism, since without a clear understanding of how much the vote declined in the North, we cannot see how fully the ponderous elitism of Parkman and Godkin were like the undemocratic aspects of German or Italian or even British liberalism.  I am also do not agree with his description of slaves as a &quot;peasantry.&quot;  This implies that the majority of white farmers who were not slaveholders were a) not peasants and b) were otherwise indistinguishable on a class basis from the slaveholders.  Recent southern agrarian history makes this assumption quite questionable.  It is true that Americans were unenthusiatic as Europeans about the rise of the proletariat and rural subaltern classes, but it is insufficient to say that mass suffrage only occured because such classes were a small proportion of the population.  They were also a small proportion of the population in France in 1848 and 1851 when universal male suffrage was declared, which did not prevent a greater degree of struggle over the question in that country.  Enfranchising the majority of any population would raise serious issues of class domination and control regardless of the class structure. Nevertheless this is still a useful study, and reading the petty, racist, misogynist, self-serving and self-satisfied arguments against the suffrage will be a depressing experience.  To think that such injustices could be continued for two centuries thanks to the endless cant of &quot;state's rights&quot; long after the republican content of that slogan had drained away will infuriate you.	2000-10-18
US	52562171	R1D7V2FNOUX5RE	0521771374	671192409	The Spirit of 1914: Militarism, Myth, and Mobilization in Germany (Studies in the Social and Cultural History of Modern Warfare)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Interesting, but padded.	This is a book which seeks to challenge a major myth about the first world war, and to describe the consequences of that myth throughout the war.  That myth is that the masses of the European countries vigorously and optimistically applauded the declaration of war in August 1914.  Uncounted textbooks and middlebrow documentaries have referred to this primordial chauvinism and naivetee.  But is it true?<br />Verhey's book is about Germany, and in what is roughly the first half of his book, he answers no.  The demonstrations that occurred in late July 1914 were largely middle class and urban, with university students playing a particularly prominent part.  The working classes showed little enthusiasm, the marches were smaller than many previous Socialist demonstrations (as well as Socialist calls against war), and the countryside and smaller centers were largely quiet.  Verhey demonstrates these facts by copious sources such as newspapers, the large secondary literature, and whatever archival sources he can find.  A problem develops here.  When the war began the German government concluded that the war was sufficiently popular enough that it would not bother its agents with reporting popular opinion.  So Verhey must look for other sources.  One source is underdeveloped in my view.  It has long been argued by the supporters of German Social Democracy that they voted for war credits because they feared being abandoned by the working class.  Verhey argues that German Social Democrats in fact were rarely influenced by this source, not surprisingly given his thesis of working class unenthusiasm.  But I believe there is not sufficient attention paid to the papers of Social Democratic leaders in order to learn how their opinions developed.<br />As for the second half of the book, about how the myth of 1914 percolated throughout society, it is comparatively bland and rather straightforward.  There are some interesting accounts of the failure of pro-war groups to cross class divides, and there is an interesting deflation of the Rightist Fatherland Party, which according to Verhey was not a proto-Nazi populist movement, but another unsuccessful political mobilization by the elites.  Otherwise, there is much talk about myth and propaganda and the general failure of the myth of 1914, which gives the second half a somewhat padded feeling.	2000-10-13
US	52562171	R3TCSN31UBVSYJ	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	4	53	57	N	N	A thoughtful book.	This is an interesting work, and it helps one to rethink questions about the war one would have thought settled.  On paper the military forces of Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union vastly overwhelm those of Germany, Italy and Japan.  One would think that military victory was assured.  Richard Overy questions these assumptions in this useful book.  After all from 1940 to 1944 Germany had most of the resouces of continental Europe to draw upon.  If the gap between the two sides seems so vast, it is partially because Germany did not take full advantage of those resources when it could have crushed the other sides.  Overy provides particular attention on the battle for the seas when it appeared up until mid 1943 that the Axis might cut the lifeline across the Atlantic, and when the battle of Midway turned for the Americans on the space of a few lucky minutes.  He discusses such major events as D-Day and gives due attention to the vital battle for Russia, without which Allied victory would have seemed impossible.<br />Crucial to this account is the economic side, however, and here Overy challenges two important scholarly opinions about the war.  The first view, which developed in the sixties, looked at the relatively low levels of arms that the Germans produced, theorized that German war production was limited because of a need to placate German living standards.  Because of this restriction Germany turned towards the devastating and hopefully quick stratgey of blitzkerig.  The second view argued that aerial bombing was of limited success because German war production still rose from 1942 to 1945.  Overy, however, argues that Hitler did not sacrifice guns for butter but always wanted a fierce military regime.  The problem for him was that armaments levels were puzzingly low, barely keeping steady with Britain and France.  The reason was not any lack of technical skill, since the Germans made many remarkable innovations during the war.  Instead the German economy was not a well organized machine, but a set of dueling quasi-feudal principalities, where quality control ran amuck and where local party and company privileges hampered the rise of mass production.  The contrast with American production is quite striking, and also with Soviet production, whose evacuation of much of its factory plant under the most desperate circumstances is one of the great untold stories of the war. It was only by 1942 that people like Albert Speer recognized the problem, and sought to correct it.  Had it not been for the massive bombing, Overy argues, Speer's efforts to raise production would have been much more successful.<br />There are many other interesting insights in the book.  Overy, contrary to a rather dense reviewer in Commentary, does not reduce the remarkable performance of the Soviet army and people to NKVD terror, but to a remarkable genuine courage on their own behalf.  The portraits of the leaders are also compelling, with Churchill being criticized for his romantic and often poor military judgement from Norway to France to Crete to Singapore.  Stalin's military judgement gets high praise from conservative Anglo-American military officers, while there is a fine sketch of George Marshall, the greatest general America ever had, who never actually fought on a battlefield.  There are some comments one should quibble about, such as Overy relying on James Bacque's tendentious Other Losses, but overall this is a fine book, and it has one of the finest final lines of any work of history this decade.	2000-10-04
US	52562171	R36NP84J8DDYJN	0679736883	443101004	The Radicalism of the American Revolution	Books	4	6	11	N	N	The best single syntheis of the American Revolution	In contrast to the widespread view of the American Revolution as a  fundamentally conservative affair Gordon Wood in this well-written and  intriguingly presented analysis states &quot;...if we measure the  radicalism by the amount of social change that actually took place...then  the American Revolution was not conservative at all; on the contrary:  it  was as radical and revolutionary as any in history.&quot;  Wood goes on to  succinctly portray Colonial America as part of an empire based on patronage  and patriarchy.  It is world where people like Arthur Young belive that  &quot;the lower class must be kept poor or they will never be  industrious,&quot; and where John Locke says &quot;Trade is wholly  inconsistnet with a gentleman's calling.&quot;  It is a world based on  barter and personal influence, where the colonies are less urban than  France, let alone England, more literate than England yet less  cosmopolitan.<br />Wood is not a radical, dangerous or otherwise, and his  radicalism is on the intellectual plane.  As the republican ideology of the  Founders seeks to turn subjects into citizens and replace bonds of  patriarchy with bonds of love, they release powerful forces of democracy  and capitalism.  It is the aura of the Revolution that influences slaves  and workers, as opposed to any concrete achievement.  Wood's account can be  therefore more anecdotal than analytical and the economics of the  revolution are often cursorily dealt with.  There is little mention in his  triumph of capitalism about the role of Southern plantations or the new  proletariat or how an overwhelmingly agricultural society became more  commercial than Europe.  Rather than more closely discuss such questions as  social mobility or popular attitudes, he quotes obvious exaggerations such  as the one on page 172 about planters having &quot;risen from the lowest  rank&quot; to achieve 100,000 pounds.  (He also quotes Brissot de Warville  two years after his death.)  <br />Wood's account is not a Marxist one, so one  should supplement it with other books.  Wood notes the demographic  explosion that caused American population to quadruple in four decades.   This growth would not have been possible without the imperial dispossesion  of the native population in North America, and the capitalist dispossesion  of the peasantry in Europe.  One should read Allen Kulikoff's The Agrarian  Origins of American Capitalism.  Wood also notes the boom in American  Evangelicalism, much to the unplesant surpise of American leaders.  He  describes this is a fundamentally democractic movement, though he notes  that Evangelicalism legimated their separation &quot;and made morally  possible their new participation in an impersonal marketplace.&quot;  One  should note the more caustic versions presented in Jon Butler's Awash in a  Sea of Faith, and Charles Sellers' The Market Revolution.  Nevertheless,  this is a study that all students of revolution should have to read.	2000-09-04
US	52562171	R3W3ZJAZB15QEY	0671749609	835505349	Perfume: The Story of Murder	Books	1	36	64	N	N	Rather repulsive..	This book is easily the least likeable I have read this year.  Although the book's style and evocative descriptions should get it three and a half  stars, its smug, amoral character lose it two and a half of these.   Jean-Baptiste Grenouille is an utterly inhuman monster, with no capacity  for love or decency or any understanding that these might be desirable  qualities.   I suppose such people exist, though they strike me as rare  and, more to the point, not really responsible for most of the world's  evil.  Concentrating on such characters is inherently contrived unless  there is some way of relating their peculiar predicament of pure  soullessness to humanity as a whole.  As such, this is a &quot;toy  novel,&quot; a book which exists as a wondrous contrivance, but lacks the  fundamental gravity that makes it lasting literature.  Perhaps the first  example of this genre is Pale Fire, which Mary McCarthy compared to a  Faberge gem.  Other examples could include Milorad Pavic's The Dictionary  of the Khazars.  Authors who transcned this genre would include Italo  Calvino, especially in such works as the Baron in the Trees, Invisible  Cities, and If on a Winters Night a Traveller.<br />As a toy novel, Suskind  provides an interesting account of eighteenth-century France filled with  details about the perfumery world that some may find boring but I find  fascinating.  The real problem with the book is its cheap misanthropy.   Like many serial killers Grenouille is a petty mediocrity who has somehow  arrogated himself the right to kill those &quot;beneath&quot; him.  This  attitude has itself become a cliche, but it is especially irritating that  Suskind should indulge it.  There seems to be a special pleasure on  Suskind's part on finding unpleasant ends for those characters that  Grenouille does himself kill.  At one point, Grenouille's search for the  ultimate scent produces an outburst of animalistic behavior that Grenouille  and Suskind seem to feel superior towards.  But since the ultimate scent is  a magical device, the &quot;truth&quot; about man's bestial nature is  simply an authorial manipulation.  At another point a mob of the Parisian  underclass is provoked by the scent into a truly vile act, which leads  Suskind to comment with heavy irony that this was the only time they had  been moved by love.  One should read Richard Cobb and Olwen Hufton to  realize the falsity on that statement.  Suskind has recently been viewed as  a new force in German literature, in contrast to the supposedly  old-fashioned left-wing moralism of Gunter Grass.  But Grass was always  more profound and more creative, and one reason why he is so clearly  superior to Suskind is that he knows that evil and suffering are cruel and  tragic, and not a shallow game.  Compared to Grass or to Louis Ferdinand  Celine, Perfume is simply a pornographic indulgence.	2000-09-04
US	52562171	R339KSTAGG5WWD	0674947517	313508880	The Warrior and the Priest: Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt	Books	2	30	54	N	N	a poor book, often a bad book	This is a poor book.  Indeed, it is often a bad book.  Cooper's idea of a  biography comparing Roosevelt and Wilson is a conceit that does not come  off.  This biography has all the genre's vices.  Complex movements like  Progressivism are clumsily personalized.  Although Cooper is mildly  critical of his heroes (particularly their criticisms of each other) he  ignores their worst aspects.  On Wilson and race:  &quot;Wilson belived  that blacks were not innately inferior to whites and would eventually,  probably in two or three centuries, achieve a measure of economic and  political, if not social, equality.&quot; (210)  I challenge anyone to read  Wilson's papers and come up with so emollient a verdict.  On Roosevelt's  artistic appreciation:  &quot;...Roosevelt based his cultural views upon  wide cultivation and genuine reflection.&quot; (87)  Now considering that  Roosevelt considered Duchamp trash, viewed the Kreutzer Sonata as obscene  and sniffed that James, Dickens, Gorky and Zola were not gentlemen, I beg  to differ.  <br />Admirers of Roosevelt's foreign policy will not be burdened  by any mention of atrocities in the conquest of the Philippines.  In fine  bipartisan tradition the faked elections in Nicaragua and the massacres in  Haiti under Wilson's rule are not mentioned either.  Be it Wilson's refusal  to pardon Eugene Debs or the dark genocidal streams in Roosevelt's racism,  the conservative, reactionary or just downright rotten opinions (on unions,  immigration, Mexico, anti-hyphenation) are either ignored or equivocated to  death in Cooper's account.  Considering America's size, wealth and  security, its rise as a world power was almost inevitable after 1865.  As  such a strictly biographical approach reveals very little.  Both presidents  were skilled administrators, and especially skilled in belittling liberal  causes when they weren't popular, taking credit for them when they were,  and trimming one's sails with the conservative tide.  As a result they are  bestowed the honor and glory that belongs to better and braver men.  But  one remembers that American history would not be too different if they had  never lived and one also remembers not to put one's faith in princes.	2000-09-04
US	52562171	RXC8F6WA7J5VX	0395840090	394376277	The Holocaust in American Life	Books	4	17	21	N	N	A fascinating study	This is a well written, well researched book that asks why did Americans pay relatively little attention to the Holocaust before 1967 and so much  attention to it afterwards.  This thoughtful book argues that before 1967  the genocide of Jews was underemphasized for a number of reasons, some  good, some bad.  One reason was the emphasis during the war on the fact  that Hitler was the common enemy of humanity, a belief fully shared by most  American Jews of the time.  (The concentration camps liberated by Americans  were not in fact largely Jewish, who were concentrated in the extermination  camps in the east, liberated by the Russians)  Another reason was the  emphasis on totalitarianism which, by concentrating on Stalin's evil,  tended to reduce attention on the uniqueness of Hitler's systematic  extermination.  Still yet another reason was the general complacency and  prosperity of the fifties.  After 1967 the Holocaust increased its  influence in the American mind for a number of reasons.  The Cold War  atmosphere relaxed, Americans became less complacent, Zionism came under  increasing criticism for its attitude towards Palestinians and naturally  the Holocaust was its best argument.  The Holocaust served as the ultimate  crime and American discourse invoked it to launch a thousand bad  analogies.<br />Novick has an excellent eye for anecdote which illustrates his  points.  It is fascinating to hear Lucy Dawidowicz, who in the seventies  became a prominent Conservative historian of the Holocaust, criticize  Israel for accepting German reparations while doing nothing to help Arab  refugees.  It is also interesting to hear her argue that demanding mercy  for the Rosenbergs would be like demanding it for Goering.  In Novick's  account we hear intellectuals arguing that the use of the term  &quot;ghetto&quot; is a perfidious attempt by African-Americans to  expropriate Jewish suffering when the term predates Hitler's rise to power  by several decades.  Contrary to many crocodile tears shed by the New  Republic and other journals Jews were not particularly sympathetic to the  civil rights movement.  Jews were disproportionately represented among  civil rights volunteers, but they were a minority of Jews.  The two Jews  murdered in Mississippi did not recieve religious funerals. In 1964 3/4 of  New York Jews (and 9/10s of New York Catholics) thought the civil rights  movement was going too fast, at a time when they had not even won the right  to vote.  Whether it consists of Americans mangling Pastor Martin  Niemoller's famous quote (&quot;First they came for the Communists, but I  was not a Communist, etc.,) so as to exclude leftists, or accounts of  Zionists trying to bully post-war refugees into moving to Israel instead of  elsewhere, Novick has provided a fascinating account.  <br />There are a few  reservations about this book.  Novick goes into detail about the Holocaust  being ignored, and being manipulated too much.  It is not clear what the  golden mean should be.  Moreover many bad invocations reflect less its  inadequacy as a souce of morality then as the considerable ignorance many  Americans have about any event in history.  Although Novick is critical  about arguments against the Holocaust's uniqueness, one can still defend  the proposition for granting it a primary importance.  Like it or not, the  United States and the OECD are going to dominate the world for the  forseeable future and they have much more in common with Nazi Germany than  with the late Ottoman Empire, Democractic Kampuchea or the Rwanda of Hutu  fanatics.  These reservations aside however, Novick's book is one that  everyone would benefit from reading.	2000-08-31
US	52562171	R1SFEQX3JQOM9M	0691043841	377671645	Becoming a Revolutionary	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hits revisionism below the waterline.	This excellent book has many virtues.  In contrast to such recent sparsely annotated works by Sutherland, Schama, Doyle and Rude, Tackett has examined the diaries and correspondence of 129 members of the National Assembly in  what is undoubtedly the most thorough examination of that body.  The book  is in three parts, the first of which discusses the background deputies.   Interestingly, Tackett notes sharp differences between nobles and  bourgeois, with the former clearly more wealthy, with an overwhelmingly  military backgroun, and less secondary education than the third estate.   More important are the next two chapters which should dispel once and for  all the Tocquevillian idea that the third estate deputies were  inexperienced legilators with no real knowledge of politics and besotted  with abstract philosophe systems.  For a start, intellectuals did rather  badly in the elections, with Condorcet defeated and Abbe Sieyes coming in  twentieth out of twenty deputies.  Perhaps 4% of third estate deputies were  academicians of some sort.  Many deputies had published works of some sort,  but sober legal treatistes and mildly anti-clerical stories were more  typical than any kind of philosophe intransigence.  Likewise as a result of  muncipal participation and political mobilization, &quot;the deputies of  the third esate were substantially more experienced in day to day  governmental activities that many of the military aristocrats who  predominated in the Noble Estate.&quot; <br />Contrary to more teleological  interpretations, Tackett noted that  most deputies sincerely supported the  king and were not particularly democratic.  As for the actual work of the  assembly, Tackett portrays it as a moderate body consistently pushed  forward by the pressure of events.  They went out of their way not to hurt  the feelings of the noble deputies before the stormig of the Bastille and  most were clearly horrified at the lynchings of Berthier and Foulon.   Tackett also provides an interesting and judicious discussion of such  topics as the founding of political factions, the art of oratory, the  development of constituency relations, and the organization of the  assembly.<br />A crucial element here was the nobility, who were not a liberal  lot, notwithstanding the arguments of such scholars as Simon Schama.   &quot;The majority was strongly penetrated with a military, even feudal  sense of honor of duty.  There were frequent references in their writings  and speecehes to models of noble courage and chivalry from the past.&quot;   They managed to limit the fallout of August 4, and successfully arranged a  suspensive veto for the king, which would delay legislation for four years.   Tackett notes that one reason why the National Assembly refused to create  a bicameral assembly was because many nobles feared being dominated by  their superiors in their order.  After June 1790 the second estate became  increasingly hostile and impotent and one fifth of them would emigrate.   Ultimately the national assembly had some flaws, such as the failure to  fully abolish peasant dues, to limit the vote, and to unwisely reorganize  the church.  But Tackett rightfully denies that the Assembly was warped by  ideology and puts the blame where it firmly belongs:  on a constitutional  monarch who refused to play by his own constitutional rules.	2000-08-01
US	52562171	RU54IGZKWZML3	0679446494	441709531	The Hitler of History	Books	2	31	42	N	N	Somewhat superficial	Lukacs is an emigre Hungarian professor, and is known in the literary community as a historian of moderately conservative Christian Democratic opinions.  Several times through this book Lukacs declares that he is writing a history of Hitler, not the Third Reich. Concentrating largely on biographies of Hitler, Lukacs argues that the key experience of Hitler was his experience in Munich during the Bavarian Revolution, not is life in pre-war Vienna.  Hitler was sane; he was a nationalist, not a patriot, and he did not really take racism or anti-communism very seriously.  His domestic programs were radical, not conservative, and he attacked the Soviet Union largely to remove Britian from the war.  His combination of nationalism and socialism makes him the most influential leader of the century.<br />The book's key flaw comes from its emphasis on biography.  No historian would wish to study Roosevelt's life simply by looking at this biographies, while ignoring William Leuctenberg or Robert Dallek.  Lukacs spends too much time criticitizing minor quasi-apologetic works by John Toland and David Irving.  But he ignores Kershaw's invaluable historiographical guide, The Nazi Dictatorship.  Books on foreign policy by Gerhard Weinberg and Noprman Rich, works on the German economy by Harold James and Richard Overy, specific monographs by Tim Mason, Robert Gellately, and Claudia Koonz; all these go unmentioned.  Lukacs does not look at the functionalist studies of Martin Broszat and Hans Mommsen, nor at the biographies of other Nazis, such as Richard Breitman on Himmler, Gitta Sereny on Speer and Richard Overy on Goering.  Particularly striking is his attempt to argue that Hitler was not really hostile to Communism, in contrast to a large historical consensus that Hitler's expansionist plans against the Soviet Union were at the core of his ideology.  He seems to argue that the attack, which Hitler began making plans for as soon as France was defeated, was almost exclusively defined to knock Britain out of the war.  He ignores the work of Arno Mayer and Omer Bartov who have found that for German soldiers the concept of &quot;Judeo-Bolshevism&quot; was a very real and very lethal concept.&quot; He makes not mention of them, or the Commissar Order, or the whole despoilation of Russia.<br />Like many historians Lukacs can be hostile to theory, with unsatisfactory results.  He makes the emotionally satisfying but intellectual adequate contrast between good, humane, conservative Patriotism and bad modern abstract Nationalism.  At one point he suggests that patriotism can be racist but not inhumane, since American Southerners would not deny that blacks are Americans.  Apparently he is unaware that plans for deporting African-Americans were common currecny for more than a century after independence.  Lukacs makes no reference to the more historical approach to nationalism made by his fellow Central European emigres, Eric Hobsbawm and Ernest Gellner, or by the Czechoslovak historian, Miroslav Hroch.  Lukacs praises the military conspirators of 1944 and ignores their anti-democratic and anti-Semitic views, while dismissing worker resistance.  At one point he quotes a 1952 account who declares that Nazism was a movement of the &quot;masses of the city,&quot; which muddles the fact that the core of Nazi support was in small Protestant villages.  After spending ten pages belaboring the obvious conclusion that Hitler was worse than Napolean, Lukacs finally ends with a sententious conclusion meandering on the depths of Hitler's evil.  All in all, a rather overrated book.	2000-07-20
US	52562171	R23TRAP51YVCRX	0521594014	771407946	A Time of Silence: Civil War and the Culture of Repression in Franco's Spain, 1936-1945 (Studies in the Social and Cultural History of Modern Warfare)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A brilliant portrait of fascist evil	A reader may be a bit disconcerted on first reading this book.  There is much talk about &quot;discourses&quot; and &quot;symbolism&quot; and &quot;ideology&quot; and one might conclude that we are about to read a  book of cultural studies on Francoist Spain.  It is not so much that  cultural studies are bad as that before we talk about perceptions of an  event it might be a better idea to have a clear idea of what actually  happened.  As it happens such fears are groundless.  What we have here is a  brilliant portrait of the cruelty of Franco's regime.  It is amazingly well  documnted, with 95 pages of notes to 174 of text.  <br />Richards argues that  the ideology of the New State had two basic components.  On the one hand  the state had to purge Spain of the half of it who were secular, liberal,  socialist, or regionalist.  In a sense Franco's Spain would have to wage a  permanent civil war against half of its own population.  The other prong of  the ideology was that Spain would follow a firm and ruthless policy of  self-sufficiency.  It has long been a cliche of much conservative and  centrist discourse that notwithstanding the aid Franco got from the Axis,  he should not be viewed as a fascist, but more as a classically  &quot;authoritarian&quot; ruler, and therefore setting the stage for the  properly pro-Western democracy that was to follow.  Franco's goal were  fundamentally traditional, as opposed to the radical ideology of the  world's totalitarian regimes.  Indeed, one could say the Nationalists were  preferable to the Loyalists, who were now little more than Communist  puppets.  Such a thesis will soon appear next year when a book on that  subject will be published by professional anti-communist Ronald Radosh.   After reading this book, such complacent views will be placed firmly on the  defensive.<br />For Richards starts with a chapter on the Francoist  eliminiation of dissent.  On the Loyalist side much of the violence was  spontaneous in the aftermath of the breakdown of establish order in the  wake of the coup.  Juan Negrin, so often and so falsely dismissed as a  Communist puppet, actually went of his way to patrol with militias in order  to prevent political assasinations.  On the nationalist side, by contrast,  there was constant talk of extermination, liquidation, of an utterly  uncompromising crusade from politicians who were proud of and not ashamed  of the Spanish Inquisition.  The Nazi press praised the Nationalists for  their vigor:  &quot;The Marxist parties are being destroyed and  exterminated down the very last cell far more dramatically even than here  in Germany.&quot;  Perhaps 6,000 were summarily executed in Seville alone  before February 1937.  (Richards adds &quot;This was not violence which was  `necessary' in any military sense:  there was no organized armed resistance  to speak of.&quot; )  In Granada perhaps 8,000 were killed, and perhaps  4,000 were killed in the first week at Malaga.  A thousand were killed in  the conquest of San Sebastian in the Basque Country, and another thousand  at Bilbao.  There were fourteen concentration camps in the area of Valencia  alone, while Mussolini's son in law, Count Ciano, believed that there were  200 executions daily in conquered Madrid in the summer of 1939.<br />This  cruelty was encouraged by an ideology that had a misogynist contempt for  independent woman, and had a morbid support for &quot;chastity&quot; and  &quot;purity.&quot;  But should also read Richard's chapters on autarky.   Much of Franco's support came from smallholders, and Franco spoke of  freeing Spain from the noxious influence of the cities.  But in fact the  peasants would be rendered powerless by Franco.  Wheat production was lower  in 1949 than at the end of the war, and what wheat did exist was guaranteed  at high prices for rich producers, and subjected to speculation and the  Black Market.  Consumption of wheat fell by more than a quarter in the  first decade of Falangist rule, as officials refused to upset their  autarkic dreams by importing wheat to a country that could not feed itself.   Indeed scarce food was shipped to Germany and Italy.  While overcrowding  and poverty increased, profits boomed and industrialists strengthened their  privileges.  All in all the first two decades to the New State were a total  loss.  A 1991 article by Giovanni Arrighi in the New Left Review  demonstrates this.  In the thirties Spain per capita wealth was about 40%  of the European core.  By 1959, Spain's wealth was less than 20%.  Only  after the economic boom did it rise again to pre civil war levels.  In  other words, a total waste.	2000-07-17
US	52562171	R36V7E4N5ZZQ95	0393036715	648231197	The Hollow Years: France in the 1930's	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Charming, clever, but more anecdotal than analytic	On first glance Weber does not appear to be an ideological historian.  He is lighter, more charming, and more tolerant than, say, Richard Pipes.  Peasants into Frenchman, his most famous book, is noticeably more profound  than Pipes' own relfections on the Russian peasantry where the gap in  class, religion and nation produces a noticeably gap in sympathy.  But this  is ultimately misleading.  Weber is an ideologue of consumerism.  The  problem with this account of the thirties is the subtle but insinuating  sense of superiority that Weber feels against France for being  insufficiently wealthy, insufficiently successful, insufficiently  innovative.  It is too worried about dreary politics of the left and right,  not like the hip charming sexy centrists of the New Republic.  His  anecdotes look less at complex debates about French diplomacy, its economic  performance, class struggle and about the &quot;real&quot; issue of living  in our joyful yet principled anti-Communist consumer utopia, and how France  fails on this score.  The result is a stimulating book full of lively  detail which is subtly misleading.  Historians recognize that they have the  advantage of hindsight, and that the people they study do not.  Weber seems  to forget this crucial point.<br />Weber's gift for anecdote can be seen in  his discussion of the diffusion of such things as refrigerators,  telephones, electricity.  French roads were so bad in the thirties that one  would not bet to get from Paris to Lyons in less than nine hours.  When  Jacques Le Roy Ladurie, a leading French historian went for his driver's  liscence, he hit a wall and a chicken and nearly missed a pedestrian, but  still got his liscence.  Carmelite nuns never washed themselves and used  paper strips when menstruating.  He describes the often hostile attitude  towards feminism and towards immigrants.  <br />Yet Weber's wide range of  source reflects an indulgence in anecdotes rather than a sharp sense of  analysis.  The result is a scattershot impressionism which exaggerates  French weakness and decline.  He quotes Lindberg's contemptuous comments on  the army, but other contemporary comments said French soliders were more  determined and resolute.  Weber quotes an unflattering song by Maurice  Chevalier on the army, but not Paif's more patriotic Mon Legionnaire.   Labor struggles are simply blamed at one point on communist agitation, much  is made of pacifist fearmongering and naivete.  Yet the sinister and  authoritarian Croix de Feu is absolved of being fascist.  Ultimately the  arguments are strings of anecdotes which do not fully take into account of  opposing arguments.	1999-08-13
US	52562171	R1UU7XN9QQS64U	0684855712	295996803	Years of Renewal	Books	1	16	40	N	N	Once more, a collection of self-serving lies.	He's been savaged before, by Seymour Hersh and William Shawcross, and his account of Vietnam has been attacked by almost every major historian of the subject.  So what do we have here in his account of the Ford years?  Well  more deceits, more fatuous prose, more endless self-regard.  Others have  looked at his deceits on Cyprus and the fall of Vietnam.  Let's here look  at his account of the Angolan civil war.<br />Angola was a Portuguese colony  which was granted independence after the 1974 Portuguese revolution.  Three  guerilla movements fought for control, the leftist MPLA, the FNLA linked to  the corrupt regime in Zaire, and UNITA, lead by Jonas Savimbi, a  contemptible opportunist who embraced Maoism, anti-white bigotry and white  South Africa when the need suited him.  By November 1975, when independence  was officially granted, the three groups were engaged in civil war, with  South Africa supporting the Angolan right with American help.  The MPLA  fought back, with the help of Cuban advisors and soldiers, an intervention  Kissinger seeks to portray as an act of unmitigated aggression.  In fact,  when one reads Raymond Garthoff's Detente and Confrontation, and Piero  Gleijeses' essay written for the Cold War International History Project,  one soon learns a number of key facts.  First off, the FNLA started the  civil war and helped undermine any national unity government.  Second, by  October the MPLA was gaining the initiative and turning back the FNLA.   Third, Cuban intervention began slowly, with only military advisors before  November.  Before October 23,1975 they took part in no battles, when 40 of  them out were part of an 1,100 man force that kept back an FNLA force that  outnumbered them 3-1.  Fourth, the MPLA was winning because its own  strength of purpose.  Fifth, in order to stop the MPLA, the white  supremacist government intervened massively in South Africa.  Kissinger, on  page 820, claims he didn't know this until October 31.  This is highly  implausible, since the MPLA had been denouncing the South Africans for more  than a week.  Sixth, the Cuban intervened in response to this, and on their  own initiative without being ordered to by the Soviets.  Seventh, the  Cubans did not achieve parity with the South Africans until last December,  in direct contradiction to Kissinger's statements to the  contrary.<br />Otherwise, the book is still smug and badly written.  Kissinger  writes that the &quot;spectacle&quot; of Nixon's indictment &quot;would  have been gravely damaging to America's standing in the world.&quot;  How  very convenient.  On page 769 he writes how while Nixon in 1958 and  Rockefeller in 1969 had faced hostile demonstrations when travelling in  Latin America, Kissinger, by contrast, was &quot;warmly received...in  keeping with the increasingly cooperative relationship that had  developed.&quot;  Under Kissinger and Nixon, right wing dictatorships arose  in Chile, Uruguay and Argentina, while dictatorships in Nicaragua, Brazil,  El Salvador, Paraguay and Guatemala were indulged and feted.  This may  explain the polite crowds.  Leaders are described in a combination of  truism, cliche and evasion.  Vorster of South Africa is surprisingly  &quot;flexible,&quot; Rabin is the military man who &quot;taught himself,  step by steph, the grammar of peace.  &quot;Sadat's crucial contribution to  the peace process was his recognition that breaking the cycle of suspicion  and distrust was more important than the specific terms of any particular  agreement.&quot;  Which may help explain why the peace process stalled from  1979 to 1993.  All in all, not a good book, not by a good author, and not  by a nice person, nor a particuarly skillful or competent one.	1999-05-30
US	52562171	R230LF0RX9GZ4X	1566631785	64526870	The Future of the European Past	Books	1	16	54	N	N	very irritating	This collection of essays published in the New Criterion are not all bad.  The late John Herrington saw signs of hope in reviving the classics.  Ferdinand Mount takes a rather calm attitude to the problem of  &quot;dumbing down.&quot;  But the rest of the essays show all the vices  that make the New Criterion the intensely irritating journal that it  is.<br />First off, there is the bullying, ostentatious anti-communism, as if  the contributors were the only people in the world who recognized that  Stalin was evil.  David Pryce-Jones labels Stefan George a Nazi, where in  fact he died in exile.  He also dismisses Sartre and Brecht as Stalinist  hacks, all in the name of liberal opposition to ideological judgments in  literature.  His essay ends in a hysterical comparison of the EEC to Vichy  France.  Anne Applebaum accuses unnamed scholars of saying Stalin killed  only hundreds of people.  Her own grasp of totalitarianism is not so good  herself since she blurts out there is &quot;no proof he [Hitler] knew about  the Holocaust.&quot;  Of course there is considerable proof; what is open  to question is the existence of a specific written or verbal order starting  the process.<br />Whatever one feels about the state of today's culture, one  will be irritated about the shallow impressionism.  John Gross and Mark  Steyn complain popular songs no longer make historical or literary  allusions.  At the time they were writing their essays there was a number  one hit in Britain called &quot;Breakfeast at Tiffany's.&quot;  And then  there's Monty Python, Kate Bush, Sting, one could go on.  Gross complains  that pub names are becoming facetious, that shallower celebrities are being  praised at Madame Tussaud's.  The decline of the Anglican church, a  phenomenon lasting centuries, is blamed on its new uninspired liturgy.  Pryce-Jones, Gross, and Hilton Kramer wince or fume whenever anything nice  is said about homosexuals.<br />Nor are is there much rigorous discussion of  opposing arguments.  Roger Kimball sneers at Jacques Derrida, while Keith  Windschuttle reduces Fernand Braudel and the Annales to a shameful desire  to escape the shame of Vichy.  Hilton Kramer spends several pages attacking  Sveltana Alpers for making a suggestion about homosexuality and ignores the  rest of her work.  For all the talk of the &quot;European&quot; past, the  essayists belittle and ignore the rest of Europe, while defending  Anglo-American elites from every slight.	1999-01-06
US	52562171	RRER1MDNAZQAN	0847685160	514232301	Vindicating the Founders: Race, Sex, Class, and Justice in the Origins of America	Books	1	28	67	N	N	downright misleading	West, a translator of Socratic dialogues and an enthusiastic Straussian, shows here that this school of political science is clearly out of its depth when trying to interpret American history.  The defense of the  founders on their record of slavery is full of flaws.  West fails to  mention that Benjamin Rush, author of Pennsylvania's gradual emancipation  law, owned a slave for years after the law came into force.  He does not  mention that Jefferson viewed blacks as lazy and promiscuous.  While  putting the blame on Georgia and South Carolina for the constitutional  convention's protections for slavery, West does not ask himself why, if  Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe and Marshall were so opposed to  slavery, nothing happened in their native Virginia except to make  emancipation more difficult?<br />At one point West argues that immediate  emancipation might have endangered people's lives.  This ignores that  immediate emancipation was never seriously suggested in the first fifty  years in the republic, and that the founders suggestions for an end to  slavery were vague and cloudy in the extreme.  Even more alarming West  argues that racism in the north was grossly exaggerated, and that there was  nothing explicity racist about plans for &quot;colonization&quot; (ie mass  deportation) of ex-slaves.  As if colonization was not explicitly racist,  which is why blacks opposed it, as if the world was full of empty spaces  where blacks could peaceably settle, as if it was an edict of absolute  morality and natural right to deport millions of people against their will  from the country of their birth to God knows where.<br />The remaining  chapters on women, poverty, and property rights reveal other flaws.  Books  by  Alexander Saxton, David Roediger, Gary Nash, and Shane White are  ignored altogether.  Other scholars are cited in the footnotes, but their  arguments are not really confronted.  He quotes from conservative  ideologues like George Gilder and Charles Murray as if they were the last  words on the subject.  He ignores reams of scholarship on American social  history by saying that a very minor conservative historian has given the  robber barons a clean bill of health.  He fails to confront the fact that  much Republican theory believed that proletarianization was a bad thing and  something to be avoided.  West devotes his book to claiming that the  founders believed that everyone had natural rights.  But in the case of  women this meant distinctly inferior property rights, and for blacks it did  not mean a right to a vote, a right to citizenship, or even a right to  citizenship.  If these are the &quot;natural&quot; rights straussians  uphold against godless relativism, let us hope they are never applied.s Murray as if they were the last  words on the subject.  He ignores reams of scholarship on American social  history by saying that a very minor conservative historian has given the  robber barons a clean bill of health.  He fails to confront the fact that  much Republican theory believed that proletarianization was a bad thing and  something to be avoided.  West devotes his book to claiming that the  founders believed that everyone had natural rights.  But in the case of  women this meant distinctly inferior property rights, and for blacks it did  not mean a right to a vote, a right to citizenship, or even a right to  citizenship.  If these are the &quot;natural&quot; rights straussians  uphold against godless relativism, let us hope they are never applied.	1999-01-06
US	52562171	R1NK5PZ8I2BVOK	0394716582	471052908	Mussolini: A Biography	Books	5	59	67	N	N	One of the most damning biographies ever written	Although this is a horrible story of folly, delusion and cruelty, the message of Denis Mack Smith's biography of Mussolini is oddly consoling.  As part of his trilogy which includes Mussolini's Roman Empire and Italy  and its Monarchy, Smith helps provide a very valuable message.  That  message is that you can be utterly ruthless and selfish, you be can be  completely amoral and unscrupulous, and yet botch everything up completely.   Few ruling classes have combined Machiavellian cynicism with an utter lack  of competence as the Italian one.  And no Italian prime minister has caused  so much damage and suffering as Benito Mussolini.<br />Mack Smith is also the  author of seminal biographies of Cavour, and Mazzini, as well as the author  of a leading textbook on modern Italy.  No other biographer of the man  possesses his knowledge.  His bibliography contains more than a thousand  items of memoirs, biographies, newspapers, articles, diaries and  monographs.  He has sixty-eight pages of tiny notes.  On every page there  is someting damning and disreputable.   Mussolini was not as vicious and  cruel a man as Hitler:  he was more of a thug than a psychopath.  Yet he  was capable of being very cruel, and half the population of Cyraenica,  Libya were killed in the course of suppressing a rebellion.  When the rebel  leader was captured and executed, &quot;Italians were told that this heroic  and noble man was a cruel, cowardly and corrupt barbarian whose death  brought joy to the whole Arab population.&quot;<br />Mussolini's main talent  was not in major reform but his considerable talent of self-promotion and  public relations.  He pretended that he was not nearsighted, and he kept  the light on in his office so that people would think he was still working.   He worsened his digestion by a silly rule which said that one should eat  every meal in less than three minutes, and he claimed that he flew as main  hours as an aviator does in his whole lifetime.  But Mussolini failed where  he made the most grandiose claims, that in war.  He tried to overcome the  weaknesses of Italy by a policy of bluff, bravado and vanity.  He  overestimated the number of divisions by fifteen, he falsified documents  when it became clear that he had botched the invasion of Greece, and he  refused to accept Hitler's tanks when they could have won him Greece.   Never a man of consistent principle, Mussolini in his last days pondered  which one of the allies he should side with against the others.  But he was  too erratic and indecisive, and on April 28, 1945 he was stopped and  executed by the Italian resistance.	1998-12-17
US	52562171	RECIJUH3HNCR5	0820312703	676481557	Wind over Sand: The Diplomacy of Franklin Roosevelt	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Very unconvincing	This book is one of the most extensive critiques of Roosevelt's foreign policy ever penned.  It criticizes him for appeasing Germany, while taking an unfairly harsh line towards Italy and Japan.  Marks criticizes Roosevelt  for insularity, ignorance and dogmatism.  His officials are unreliable,  while FDR mistakingly believes you can buy respect and supports misguided  pacifism when a strong show of force is required.  He seeks to sabatoge  Chiang Kai-Shek and is far too indulgent towards Stalin.  His first months  in office encourage isolationism and his attitude towards Latin America  only encourages the contempt that continent feels towards a weak master.   Footnotes makes up a quarter of a book, the bibliography is long and  extensive, and Marks has engaged in multi archival research from Taiwan to  Canada, as well as from Britain and France.  Were Marks' view accepted it  would lead to a major decrease in Franklin Roosevelt's reputation.<br />As it  happens, Marks' revisionism will not succeed because despite the effort  involved, it is seriously flawed.  Marks shows a strong, unrelenting  prejudice against FDR at every turn (his books on Teddy Roosevelt and John  Foster Dulles show the opposite problem).  There are two major flaws to  this work.  First, there is the biased selection of evidence.  In order to  make Italy and Japan look more reasonable Marks cities Italian and Japanese  propoganda on the Ethiopian war and the Manchurian crisis respectively.   There is no mention of the Rape of Nanking.  Admiral Horthy, ruler of Axis  Hungary, says FDR was insufficiently anti-communist, a view that is  seconded by Franco's pro-Axis foreign minister.  Hitler's slippery  dishonest finance minister Schacht is quoted as saying that FDR thought  that Hitler was good for Germany.  Hitler's disreputable vice-chancellor,  von Papen is quoted to contrast Winston Churchill's supposed mercy in  comparison to FDR's bloodthirstiness on the Nuremberg trials.  (Actually it  wasAmerican officials who took the lead on the matter.)  Whether they are  pro-Japanese appeasers, propagandists for the China lobby, or sentimental  frenchmen who unfairly blame Roosevelt for the demise of the French  colonial empire, Marks blandly praises their genius while ignoring  compelling counter-evidence.<br />Likewise, there is a lack of balance in the  book. More space is given on the 1937 Brussells conference on Asian  problems than on the Breton Woods Conference that set up the post-war  economic order.  One suspects this has much to do with the fact that France  and England blamed FDR for its failure.  Much of the archival evidence from  Britain and France consists in complaints from the less than brilliant  Halifax and Bonnett.  Much is made of the gaucheries and mistakes of  Roosevelt's diplomats, while statesman like General Marshall and Henry  Stimson are almost ignored.  So, for that matter, is much of the conduct of  the war. Chaing's regime is blatantly whitewashed while the opposing case  is never countered or, as in the case of Lloyd Eastman's Seeds of  Destruction, read.  Flaws that apply equally to Dulles and TR, such as  bigotry and ignorance, are applied to FDR alone.  There is something  tendentious and questionable on every page.  On no account should anyone  consider anything mentioned here as definitive.	1998-10-29
US	52562171	R1MAFO2LRTCNG5	0860915956	52064247	A Zone of Engagement	Books	5	15	15	N	N	a fascinating collection of essays	Perry Anderson, one of the leading minds of the NEW LEFT REVIEW, has collected here a series of critical engagments on some of the most important intellectuals of our time.  Cosmopolitan,  internationalist,multilingual, Anderson has provided a series of essays  that are breathtaking in their wideness of vision.  He begins with a  complex essay discussing the fall of the Roman Empire in comparison with  G.E.M de Ste Croix's The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World.  He  then provides a compelling explanation for the development of modernism and  modernist culture.  He examines and intelligently and sympathetically  critiques wide-ranging analysis of the development of human society by Lord  Runciman and Michael Mann.  From examining the Italian liberal Norberto  Bobbio, to the Brazillian communitarian of Roberto Unger, and to the czech  sociologist Ernest Gellner, he moves on to discuss the nature of witchcraft  with Carlo Ginzburg, pluralism and the development of liberty in Isaiah  Berlin, and nationalism and national character with Fernand Braudel.   Finally he discusses Francis Fukuyama and asks whether Marxism has any  meaning after the end of history. He concedes nothing to sentiment, but  still provides a clear defence.  If there is a weakness in the book, it  lies in a perhaps too sympathetic account of German diplomatic historian  Andreas Hilgruber, and a surprisingly uncritical citing of Vaclav Havel.   But otherwise Anderson consistently shows a profoundity and range of  reading that makes the intellectuals of the New Republic and the New Yorker  appear insular and narrowminded.	1998-10-29
US	52562171	R1P49GP7FI3PXO	0679736603	361623327	The Russian Revolution	Books	2	13	30	N	N	Not nearly as definitive as it claims to be	This book is not nearly the definitive work that its admirers believe.  On  crucial areas such as the role of much of the peasantry and the 1906 Duma  only a  couple of contemporary sources are cited while leading works in the  historiography go unmentioned.  A chapter on intelligentsia looks quote  Edmund Burke, Raymond Aron, Hippolyte Taine and other conservatives.  The  idea being is that intellectuals are an irresponsible, bloodthirsty,  power-aggrandizing lot, except for those like the author who are senior  professors at Harvard and advisors to the Reagan administration.  Not  merely does the book dislike the Bolsheviks it is also completely  unsympathetic to the Mensheviks, the Social Revolutionaries, and even the  Kadets.  It is not that Pipes has much admiration for the Czar, but he  appears to believe that such is the horror of revolution that one should  give unconditional support to an incompetent monarch in a war he cannot  win.  Although there is much contempt for the  utopianism of the  intelligentsia, he blandly accepts Russia's entry into the first world war,  and the millions of deaths that resulted from it.	1998-10-05
US	52562171	R3FSNO1VZE174D	1561310379	914946733	The Garden Where the Brass Band Played	Books	5	2	7	N	N	one of the finest love stories of this century	&quot;Whereas The Garden where the Brass Band Played is `merely' one of  the finest love stories written in this century, One Hundred Years of  Solitude is one of the most beautiful novels ever written.&quot;  With this  quotation in mind,one should seek out this fine Dutch novel about the love  affair between a young man of the upper middle class and the daughter of a  failing music teacher.	1998-09-29
US	52562171	R1TGMRVI64TGK1	0521627176	229274508	Drawing the Line: The American Decision to Divide Germany, 1944-1949	Books	5	46	46	N	N	A book all Americans should read	This is a book all Americans should read, but probably won't.  Although stylistically undistinguished, it tells a vitally important story about the origins of the cold war.  Few criticisms of the Soviet Union's diplomacy are more damning than the way it imposed dictatorship in Eastern Europe.  What Eisenberg's book suggests however, is that the partition of Germany was not the result of Stalinist bullying, but American preference for it  over a neutral social democratic state.  Relying on more than  70 sets of private papers and files, Eisenberg shows how the United States subtly weakened denazification, decarterlization and the American committment to ensure the war-ravaged Soviet Union its share of German  reparations.  Gradually they decided that economic recovery and political security required an American allied Germany even if the Soviet quarter remained a Communist dictatorship.  As Ambassador Walter Bedell Smith bluntly put it &quot;The difficulty under which we labor is that in spite of our announced position, we really do not want nor intend to accept German unification in any terms that the Russians might agree to, even though they seemed to meet most of our requirements.&quot;   With Truman having only a vague idea of the real issues, the United States ignored Soviet plans for reunification,  forced plans for currency reform, and refused international proposals for mediation of the Berlin Blockade crisis.  The consequences of this decision were incalcuably tragic for Central Europe and the world.	1998-06-11
US	52562171	R6KVIPHM2H43X	0231041969	89914245	American Intervention in Greece, 1943-1949: A Study in Counterrevolution (Columbia Contemporary American History Series)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A fine history of a squalid episode in American diplomacy	One of the most important events in the beginning of the cold war was Harry Truman's demand for American support for the government of Greece in its war with pro-Communist guerillas.  In fact, as Wittner shows, the history of the Greek civil war was far more complex than this.  The Communist forces were not Soviet puppets.  In fact, Stalin freely gave Greece to Churchill as a British sphere of influence.    In fact, as a direct consequence of Chruchill's actions, the wartime resistance of the EAM was savagely and treacherously attacked by the Greek right, many of whom had been Nazi collaborators.  Intimidation and electoral fraud made civil war inevitable and when the British had to leave in early 1947, the Americans had to take over.  Wittner, relying on more than 75 sets of private papers, gives us many fine details on the process that lead to &quot;victory.&quot;  The United States lied when it claimed it was looking for UN mediation.  American officials approved of the exectution of Jehovah's Witnesses, and even denounced them as Communists.  Greek military tribunals were so unjust that one American official was called to testify against two people accused of murdering him.  Greek politics were crudely manipulated, economic injustice was ignored, and trade union elections overriden.  And the consequence of this &quot;victory&quot; was the establishment of a psuedo-democratic government, and later dictatorship.  Not until 1974 would Greece securely become the democratic republic it had wished to be when the war ended.  This is a book no student of the period should ignore.	1998-06-11
US	52562171	RFC5XE1HJ0XID	0521563186	71333512	Fair Shares for All: Jacobin Egalitarianism in Practice (Past and Present Publications)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A fascinating contribution to revolutionary historiography.	For the past three decades the history of the French Revolution has been dominated by revisionism.  Often strongly critical of the revolution, much revisionism insistently invokes the terror of the Year II.  Yet surprisingly little revisionism is about the Jacobin Republic.  It is the surpreme value of Jean Gross' book that it provides a detailed discussion of the difficulties and achievements of the the years 1793-94.  One is struck by its plentiful archival research, in marked contrast to much recent revisionist work.  Much of our image of the Terror concentrates on the grand terror in Paris, and such horrors as the destruction of Lyon, the bloody surpression of the Vendee and the mass drownings at Nantes.  Yet this crimes cannot be considered the core of Jacobinism, or even typical.  Gross concentrates on the hard working deputies such as Romme, Paganol, Saint-Andre.  In contrast to the vague view that the Jacobins were proto-Stalinist fanatics, Gross reminds us of their place in the geneology of liberal democracy.  By looking at such matters at rehabilitation, land reform, progressive taxation, food rationing, a burgeoning welfare state and plans for compulsory education, Gross shows how Jacobins tried to make a difference.  Although confounded by the traumas of war, the everpresent fiscal crisis, and the Thermidorean reaction, Gross does reveal some genuine improvement.  More important Gross makes clear that the Jacobins were not fanatical egalitarians, but believers in fairness.  Contrary to conservative cant, Jacobins believed not in equality of outcome, but in equality in opportunity.  But they were well aware you cannot have the second if society is wealth is radically maldistributed and hierarchial.  This is an important book all those with an interest in the French revolution should read.	1998-06-10
