US	52571938	R1ERFQ8RB151RC	0595196330	69943996	Ayn Rand Contra Human Nature	Books	5	38	66	N	N	Best Empricist Critique of Objectivism Available	Greg Nyquist is the kind of guy that would probably annoy a person who enjoys day-dreaming and dallying in flights of fancy.  He states his allegiance to naturalist and empirical philosophies and respect of biological views of human nature upfront.  If you make a claim, Nyquist will simply ask you for evidence supporting it.  And ideally, he doesn't mean you observation of one individual - he means scientifically tested data, or references and arguments in support of your claims.  Define what you mean by pointing to things, and present your evidence.<br />The view of human beings that Nyquist develops with such a worldview is cynical, but Nyquist is obviously able to empathize with lofty ideals - he just thinks that all issues should be brought to the bar of scientific and rational analysis with substantiating evidence.  Of course, he also stresses that you should not evade the evidence contrary to your theme.<br />How well does Nyquist's criticism of Objectivism hit its mark when shooting from this perspective?  It hits it very well!  Nyquist criticizes Objectivist claims about human nature, history, art and philosophy by simply taking an Objectivist position, looking for the evidence, and asking what science, and then his philosophical viewpoint, have to say on the matter.  My favorite parts of his critique are his criticisms of Rand's assertions about human nature and the tabula rasa mind.  I had thought about doing such a critique myself, but guessed intuitively that Nyquist would have done one first.  He presents the empirically based genetic and sociobiological evidence for genetic influences on human choices and behavior.<br />I am not a history buff, so I am not able to critique historical views with great competence.  While Nyquist might score points here, I think it might have helped if he was able to cite more than one reference for every point that he made, or at least, primary references.  However, this does not destroy his points that undermine the lazy approach of replacing real empirically tested or substantiated knowledge with philosophical perspectives.<br />While I disagree with Nyquist's arguments that attempt to dissociate logic from metaphysics (I am acquainted with the history of the argument between Blanshard and Nagel on that point - not directly presented by Nyquist - and I side with Blanshard), I do appreciate and agree with his argument that the scientific claims pretty much trump speculative philosophical ones and that underlying philosophies that declare allegiance to \\"reason\\" are not necessarily declaring an allegiance to the scientific method that certifies predictive and testable knowledge.  I also agree with him that it is when allegiance to *scientific empiricism* is pervasive, and not just *bland declarations of allegiance to reason* that progress amongst human beings is greatest (not that the two are totally mutally exclusive, but Newton is an example of a mystic who was a scientific empiricist).   Speculative philosophy can be right about things, but the idea that it grants certain knowledge is very dubious, whether coming from Objectivism, Christianity or Marxism.  The method by which of verbalist speculation replaces science is common in lots of philosophy.  Nyquist uses this to show how Rand ends up confusing many of her readers by playing upon their intuitive understandings of her ambiguously defined words.  He does what is pretty clear to most people who have argued with Objectivists - show that \\"reason\\" to a hardcore Objectivist is synonymous with \\"the ideas of Objectivism\\".<br />I do not think Nyquist has written a perfect book - I sometimes found the presentation format to be uneven (not every chapter seemed to have a conclusion, for example), and there were points on which his disrespect for a certain position led him to dismiss it without sufficient empathy.<br />However, he deserves a 5-star review if only for bringing Objectivism to the bar of empirical analysis.  Reviews thatdisagree with him will tend to dislike his naturalism, especially as he cynically applies it to ethics and politics, asking how Rand's capitalist fantasies, with which he (and I) share some sympathies, will ever take root.<br />In the end, you respect for this book will depend on whether you are able to empathize with arguments you disagree with, and whether your view of human nature is conserative or libertine.	2003-03-28
US	52571938	R2KC151N8QJYK4	0595267335	702669398	Objectivism and the Corruption of Rationality: A Critique of Ayn Rand's Epistemology	Books	5	53	103	N	N	Same review, a few modifications for clarity	Say what you must about Ayn Rand, but her writings in defence of reason are considered authoritative by quite a few people, especially many of her followers, and some admirers who do not think she was quite right about anything else.<br />Scott Ryan's criticism of Rand is important in my opinion, not because it will command general assent (I agree with Ryan's minimal, epistemological idealism or perceptual subjectivism, but I do not quite share his intuitions about how they generate metaphysical idealist commitments, though I think I understand them and agree completely with the Spinozistic/Blanshardian world view he presents), but because it shows the subtlety and sophistication required to practice philosophy seriously.<BR> <BR>Brand Blanshard, one of Ryan's heroes, is my favorite philosopher because Blanshard entered empathetically into an opponent's view, trying to develop the view to some degree before refuting it. And Scott Ryan exemplifies this practice of Blanshard to a great degree in this volume. <br />Ryan often takes a question, and tries to see what Rand's position on it is based on her writings.  If this question is not answered by Rand, Ryan looks to Rand's disciples. Ryan tries to show the adequacies and inadequacies of Objectivist answers, and he shows in the process how subtle a field philosophy is, and why it is important to get right what your opponent is saying before rejecting it. He also shows that on many pregnant philosophical questions, Objectivism, like many other philosophies that are quasi-religious and dogmatic, doesn't have any answers. Sometimes, as in the case of egoism vs. altruism, or determinism vs. indeterminism, this is done by defining away the opponent's view or totally misconceiving it.<br />People who think that a harmonious society can be built on Rand's view of human beings and ethics need to read this volume, especially chapter 12, which is a 60 page critique of the spiritually deleterious nature of the Objectivist ethicsand the problem with Objectivist denials of \\"intrinsic value\\". And Ryan's polemics, while they might sound abrasive to fawning objectivists, are really quite fairly written. One might not like Ryan's position, but I think it is quite difficult for someone to accuse him of misrepresenting Rand deliberately. It has been fairly clear to many philosophers that altruism can be rational, and in a sense that doesn't ultimately reduce to self-interest (though self-interested considerations can enter into whether it is wise to be altruistic or not in a specific situation). And moreover, some deontological principle is required to recognize this respect for the rights and welfare of others if one wants to morally justify a just-society. We can argue as to what means best serve this ends, but we must not pervert our moral claims to deny that some ends are not noble just because some people think (quite erroneously) that these ends are achievable by state paternalism. <br />Moreover, I think that Ryan has posed a lot of pregnant questions for Randian (and I think to some degree, Rothbardian) individualists about the adequacy of some of their justifications for libertarian rights. I have often noticed that many libertarians (and one of the biggest and best opponents of this trend in the Libertarian movement that I know is probably John Hospers) try to disregard cost-benefits analysis of certain issues and sometimes argue as if it is an incontrovertible axiom that government can never get anything right, or that arguments for government inefficiency are so powerful that there cannot be other considerations for the possibility of state paternalism in specific cases, or that there can't be specific realistic scenarios where the libertarian solution has some demerits.  Some of these arguments are related to denials of intrinsic value.<br />While I consider myself a libertarian, I would like to make it clear that the approach to many issues of acting like your opponents are not saying anything worth listening to is going to hurt the libertarian movement for as long as libertarians are under the idea that intrinsic values (and people should read Ryan's account of it, which is fairly well-developed) do not in some sense precede their subjective (and objective) apprehension by individuals. Please do not naively interpret my words - read Ryan's account for some of the details on a topic that a 1000-word book review cannot do justice to.   Ryan also argues that the utilitarian nature of intrinsic value does not commit one to utilitarianism - rightness, in his view, is not (always) reducible to the maximization of goodness.<br />Quite a bit of Rand's \\"originality\\" will be exploded by a careful reading of this book. I cannot recommend this book enough. The main problem with this book is that it is often technical and one might need to read Blanshard's \\"Reason and Analysis\\" (or some other philosophical work with traditional and contemporary relevance) to get some perspective on some of these issues.<br />Another minor problem is that because the book is mostly philosophical, and Ryan is not a materialist, he doesn't present the great amount of biological evidence that would refute the Objectivist claims about the \\"tabula rasa\\" (at birth) mind.   He doesn't totally neglect this evidence (as his citation of Morris Cohen in his discussion of the tabula rasa mind shows), but I feel that many of the strongest criticisms against Marxism and Objectivism are their perversions of the biological nature of human beings (and this is also what Marxism and Objectivism have in common).  However, some libertarians also rely on these perversions and do not want to discuss them because of a fear of (biological) determinism.  Libertarians should start coming to terms with the implications of the findings of genetics on human nature and see if their libertarian claims about social organization make sense in the face of such findings.<br />Investing your mental energies in this book shall be rewarded with a broadened understanding of traditional philosophy.  This is a good thing - an understanding of philosophy is one of those private goods that characterizes a cultured man.  Highly recommended.	2003-03-20
US	52571938	R1GGKZSP7K6YPC	0878918396	48445413	Probability: A Complete Solution Guide to Any Textbook (Problem Solvers)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Not a complete review	I used the Stochastic Processes section to gain an intuitive understanding of what these beasts are about.  I recommend that section for it simplicity to anyone who wants to get more than the abstract stuff that floats over the head of most people in contemporary textbooks.	2002-12-09
US	52571938	R31XIXGKWZ5QYA	019511552X	503816898	The Problems of Philosophy	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Good Introduction	This is my favorite book of Bertrand Russell's, both as an introductory and technical work, and it is probably so because he wrote it before he went too deeply into analytical and empiricist philosophy to remember his rationalist roots.  ...His summaries of Rationalism vs. Empiricism are also excellent, though 20th century rationalism is probably today what he describes as the middle ground position between both views in his book. Most 20th century rationalists accept the *causal* importance of sensory perception in forming many *a priori* beliefs, so the new term is not *a priori* knowledge, but *a priori* justification.  Empiricism is the dominant school in philosophy today, but I think that will change in time because empiricism cannot justify many of its epistemological conclusions in any way that do not undermine the justificatory role of thought.<br />Some of the accounts of \\"sense data\\" and \\"knowledge by description\\" are a bit tortured, partly because Russell tried to avoid metaphysics as much as possible, and I personally do not believe that they are ultimately correct. However, the discussions are still good introductions. People who read more rationalist philosophy from the likes of Brand Blanshard and Laurence Bonjour as well as analytic philosophers like David Armstrong will get a better insignt into where the real debates about some of these issues lie.<br />On the whole, a good introduction to philosophy, even though it doesn't touch upon ethics and politics. However, philosophy is a difficult subject and one book, even the best introduction, cannot make clear all the problems that some of the best minds in history have wrestled over...	2002-10-24
US	52571938	R2UJ4IAMXGWKW1	0452010306	107700468	Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology: Expanded Second Edition	Books	3	16	35	N	N	Good amateur philosophy	It's hard for me to give an objective review of this book. Honestly, it's a thought provoking philosophical work in the sense that it *does* force you to think if you are unacquainted with these problems. In addition, it's not as inaccessible as many contemporary and historical (traditional) philosophical works, and it presents some topics that *should* be of interest to the general public.<br />But if you are not a philosophical amateur, and you are acquainted with the *best* of traditional and contemporary philosophy, you will probably not find much in this book that piques your interest. There is no proper attempt made in this book to engage historical views properly, or to criticize contemporary views after developing them competently. It is not a scholarly or academic work - it is better than pop philosophy, but well below the (proper, not just pretentious) scholarly bar. And a huge part of the problem is that Rand has a cult following which claims that she was absolutely right on the major issues. The real problem is that the amount and quality of reading required to show she was wrong is probably beyond the practical limits of most people's interest in philosophy. However, I do not think that this is a sufficient reason to say that people should not read the book - it can genuinely aid your practical thought like it aided mine and that of many others.<br />Ayn Rand discusses the problem of universals, which has historically been characterized as an ontological (metaphysical) problem, in a book on epistemology. This might annoy some philosophical purists, but she does defend this act (while she might not have agreed with my claim that she was defending a form of conceptualism, it is that fact alone that might have justified her making the problem a matter of epistemology). I do not think that her attempt was ultimately successful (for the simple reason that I think that conceptualism cannot provide a *full* account of universals, which are properly ontological). However, given the fact that this book was written at a time when philosophies like pragmatism, logical positivism, and linguistic analysis were running things, Rand was a great alternative.<br />Rand doesn't seem to consider the possibility of real inter-contextual identities existing in reality (precisely the same shade of red on two different objects). She does give a decent account of similarity/resemblance, but I think that her account is contrived. I think that she depends on a real universal (length) in her account of similarity - however, it is the existence of that real universal that she is meant to explain without postulating its metaphysical existence if her account is purely epistemological.<br />Rand does ground a lot of her epistemology in sense perception and this is a good thing for the clarity of thought and communication. However, she doesn't distinguish between sensation and sense perception, and she fails to realize that reason is a faculty that provides a lot of the information given in sense perception.  It seems that she is not at all acquainted with the arguments in British philosophy about the status of logic, mathematics and ethics as not being based in sense perception which hasn't been moulded by reason. This argument historically proceeded through the works of<br />: Locke, who claimed that all knowledge originates in sensation.<br />: Hume, who denied the validity of any knowledge not given in sensation.<br />: Green, the British Idealist who showed that Hume and Locke had to be wrong or knowledge would be impossible. His account of metaphysics and epistemology was defended by Bradley and Bosanquet in Britain and Royce and Blanshard in America, with Blanshard being the most empircally advanced in terms of 20th century science. There are many other important names in these debates apart from the British ones I mentioned, but the difficult \\"Introduction to Locke and Hume\\" shows the inadequacies of empiricism, and there is no need to read Kant or Hegel's dark ruminations, which are even worse (more difficult).<br />In fact, it can be argued that so many philosophical errors were repeated in the 20th century because the work of the Idealists was not properly understood before being rejected. British Idealism was uncritically associated with mysticism, and rejected by some secular philosophers the same way that classical economics was rejected by some pro-capitalist economists because it was uncritically associated with socialism. If people had sat down and understood the arguments of the Idealists before writing them off, maybe we would not have had the foolishly dark pronouncements of skepticism emanating from the vortices of logical positivism, linguistic analysis and existentialism today.<br />Rand talks about many interesting issues: essences, axioms, definitions etc. Whether they all properly belong in a work on epistemology is another story. There are some ad hominem remarks directed at opposing positions (sometimes right, but still not good writing practice). The essay by Peikoff on the Analytic-Synthetic dichotomy correctly rejects the dichotomy, whose acceptance was based on a rejection of necessity in causality, but the arguments get the distinction wrong and mix it up with a lot of other dichotomies. However, one cannot know this unless one acquaints oneself with philosophical history of the highest quality (and not just the popular, but often incorrect/biased people like Bertrand Russell either).<br />I think this is a good book for anyone who wants to gain some insight into knowledge. Ayn Rand was probably the biggest bridge on my path to becoming an amateur philosopher so I can recommend this book to anyone. However, the level of sophistication with which the arguments are presented makes the book more of a sermon than a philosophical argument. It should be read quite critically, and I would recommend the books of Robert Audi or Laurence Bonjour for those who want good, contemporary traditionalist and rationalist accounts of epistemology in the purist tradition of philosophy. For a good historical account of philosophy that is accessible to the intelligent reader, I, without hesitation, recommend anything by Brand Blanshard, who is easily my favorite philosopher.nt or Hegel's dark ruminations, which are even worse (more difficult).<br />In fact, it can be argued that so many philosophical errors were repeated in the 20th century because the work of the Idealists was not properly understood before being rejected. British Idealism was uncritically associated with mysticism, and rejected by some secular philosophers the same way that classical economics was rejected by some pro-capitalist economists because it was uncritically associated with socialism. If people had sat down and understood the arguments of the Idealists before writing them off, maybe we would not have had the foolishly dark pronouncements of skepticism emanating from the vortices of logical positivism, linguistic analysis and existentialism today.<br />Rand talks about many interesting issues: essences, axioms, definitions etc. Whether they all properly belong in a work on epistemology is another story. There are some ad hominem remarks directed at opposing positions (sometimes right, but still not good writing practice). The essay by Peikoff on the Analytic-Synthetic dichotomy correctly rejects the dichotomy, whose acceptance was based on a rejection of necessity in causality, but the arguments get the distinction wrong and mix it up with a lot of other dichotomies. However, one cannot know this unless one acquaints oneself with philosophical history of the highest quality (and not just the popular, but often incorrect/biased people like Bertrand Russell either).<br />I think this is a good book for anyone who wants to gain some insight into knowledge. Ayn Rand was probably the biggest bridge on my path to becoming an amateur philosopher so I can recommend this book to anyone. However, the level of sophistication with which the arguments are presented makes the book more of a sermon than a philosophical argument. It should be read quite critically, and I would recommend the books of Robert Audi or Laurence Bonjour for those who want good, contemporary traditionalist and rationalist accounts of epistemology in the purist tradition of philosophy. For a good historical account of philosophy that is accessible to the intelligent reader, I, without hesitation, recommend anything by Brand Blanshard, who is easily my favorite philosopher.	2002-10-17
US	52571938	R29EH9E8YU1AUR	1560008474	585204733	The Revolt Against Dualism: An Inquiry Concerning the Existence of Ideas	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Probably the finest piece of critical philosophy of our time	Quite frankly, I think that this is the greatest piece of critical philosophy written in the 20th century, and it is definitely in my top three.  It was so good that it virtually destroyed the attempts of the Realist schools in the earlier 20th century to replace epistemological dualism with epistemological monism.  And of course, in case the idealists started to get too proud, Lovejoy showed quite clearly that unless they were trying to claim insights they were not rationally entitled to, there is nothing about reality that supports the claim that objects of perception are found in an Absolute Mind.<br />I bought this book almost a year ago and it collected dust on my shelf because I lacked the level of philosophical sophistication required to attack it directly.  Over the past year, I became more acquainted with philosophy and its history, most especially the works of Brand Blanshard and Laurence Bonjour.<br />I was arguing the case for psychophysical dualism on a website recently.  I was already an epistemological dualist, having come to the conclusion that even the best-developed forms of rational and objective idealism were essentially dualistic.  This is even more obviously the case if one incorporates the insights of modern physics about the constituents of matter, and its insights into time and space.  However, psychophysical dualism, mostly because it is related to interactionist/dualist beliefs about interaction between the mind and the body or the mind and the brain, is associated with mysticism.<br />To see if I could find anything to make or break my belief in psychophysical dualism, I picked up this book, which I hadn't picked up in a while, having being frightened by such terms as the *cognescendum* a year ago.  It was a great joy to read, as Lovejoy carefully laid out the secular and rational case for epistemic dualism and the related psychophysical dualism, while refuting philosophers that are far more famous that he was.  Lovejoy explained that illusions and dreams, amongst other factors, created a problem that was best handled by the separation of the physical from the mental and  the development of a gradually developed epistemology to make the causal connections work.<br />Bertrand Russell's realist position was criticized so devastatingly by Lovejoy that Russell because a dualist, with the belief (shared by most epistemic dualists) that the objects of our immediate perception are fundamentally mind-related.  The trick, as Lovejoy noted, is to draw the right causal connections from the objects presented in perception to the subject matter of the physical sciences while being wary of the mind's ability to fall into error.<br />Epistemological monism has been slaughtered.  As Brand Blanshard said,  _The Revolt against Dualism_ is their `tombstone'.  Anyone wishing to argue uncritically against the bifurcation of mental objects and physical reality should read some philosophy, and then pick up this book.  In fact, I might one day make an attempt to make its insights far more accessible to the common reader.  However, common people sometimes know far more about these things than some so-called \\"great philosophers\\" - they just get carried away by the first philosopher that floats an idea around them.  <br />The ideas in this book are a great antidote to such a problem.  Lovejoy discusses a problem of great importance, especially to those who practice any field that involves epistemology.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-10-04
US	52571938	R1F3DQ21J7QQPN	0521597455	892759168	In Defense of Pure Reason: A Rationalist Account of A Priori Justification (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	An Incredible Book	My only qualm with this book is that only a reader who has read some philosophy will find it truly accessible.  It's length and scope doesn't allow the author to fully discuss many of the issues surrounding the topic of rational insight.<br />What is rational insight?  One of the simplest examples is the syllogism: &quot;All men are mortal.  Socrates is a man.  Socrates is mortal.&quot;  Another example is the statement: &quot;Something cannot be both green all over and red all over.&quot;  I think that only the hardcore skeptic would deny the certainty of such insights.  How do we justify/explain such insights?  Here comes the rub - to justify such insights, the ability to grasp them must already be possessed by those who are justifying them and those to whom they must be justified.  A point later defended by the author, and which has been defended by many rationalists, is that the structure of the world must such that these relationships are given in reality in some form.<br />Rather than list and categorize these insights, Bonjour mounts a wonderful defence for these insights, which he categorizes, like other rationalist philosophers, as &quot;apriori&quot; knowledge, or in his better term, &quot;apriori justification&quot;.  He, like other rationalists, describes them as a grasp of necessity: once thier nature is grasped and understood, people defend them by thinking and reasoning, rather than pointing to specific data given in experience.<br />The book has many wonderful points: a careful and reasoned exposition of why Kant was not a rationalist in the true sense of the word (this has been known to quite a few rationalists in the Aristotleian tradition, but Bonjour's criticism leaves little to the imagination), a defence of view of a priori knowledge as fallible, but fallible only in the sense that it answers to new and better apriori insights when found to be mistaken, and a nice and careful discussion of the major analytic school's objections against a prioriknowledge.<br />A great part of this book is well made and much needed distinctions between the a priori and the a posteriori, the analytic and the synthetic, and the necessary and the contingent.  His defence and qualification of these terms are worth the cost of the book alone, and he shows how misrepresentaions of these terms, and thier implications are, have led to the acceptance of weak arguments against them being considered conclusive rejections of them.<br />Finally, the author gives both the nice defence  and the beginnings of an a priori theory of induction.  The good thing about his defence is that it validates induction, and it will probably be easy to incorporate the best work that has been done into this field since I believe that Bonjour has silenced the greatest oppositions to induction as a source of knowledge.<br />It is a short book, and is quite limited in scope, but it was a page turner for me.  I believe the influence of this book's arguments will be far reaching, once the required critical mass of intellectuals inculcate the ideas contained within this book.<br />I think my review is understated, so I will only say this: get the book if you have the philiosophical background, and be prepared for one of the best defences of Reason in philosophical history.	2002-02-21
US	52571938	R3C8ADTMKS7SDC	0452011019	118162393	Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand (Ayn Rand Library)	Books	4	15	36	N	N	Good book, but it's not perfect.	My review of this book is in two parts.  One part deals with its presentation of Objectivism.  The second part deals with how correct the ideas that its presents are.  I'm not a dispassionate reviewer of this book, if such a thing truly exists.  I have two Objectivist brothers and I once admired the philosophy.  OPAR, for me, was the beginning of a restoration of my commitment to rationality.  However, my view of OPAR and Objectivism has changed quite a bit since I first read OPAR: I do admit that a vast majority of my positions are now rationally validated.<br />As a single work that presents Objectivism, the philosophy of Ayn Rand, this book does quite well.  I have most of Rand's books and I've read quite a few of them.  I think Peikoff more than adequately captures the essence and spirit of Rand's thought.  His hierarchical presentation of Objectivism is an added plus and this work is a monument to system building.  This book DOES present Ayn Rand's philosophy and if this is the sole standard that the book is to be judged by, then I think even those who do not like Objectivism must nod with approval. <br />While I can recommend this book to those who want to study Ayn Rand's thought, I cannot recommend the philosophy of Objectivism to people as anything but a source of insights which should be carefully contemplated and thoroughly researched.  The primary danger is that while Rand, Peikoff and OPAR are right about many things, they are also wrong about many things, and the effort required to disprove them is one that many people will be unable to undertake.  Amongst these problems are subtle inconsistencies within the philosophy (and OPAR), inconsistencies with respect to reality, and misrepresentations of other points of view.  I will try to give simple examples  (others would be too complex for an Amazon review), and explain the source given the premises of the philosophy.<br />I think that many Web resources have discussed the fact that even Rand's account ofconcept formation relies on specific universals (length, color and other attributes) as defined by contemporary philosophy.  I will not go too deeply into this to keep the review under 1000 words.  The key question is how we form similar ideas - to form SIMILAR ideas, those universals (repeatable features) must be given in reality, unless the laws of identity and causality are to be denied. <br />The Objectivist view of causality is a subtle attempt to allow agent causation as the source of what it considers free will, and to avoid the problems facing arguments against determinism.  The Objectivist view of causality says that every entity \\"must act in accordance with its nature\\".  Of course no one doubts this: however, what is the entity's nature under *specific conditions*?  Or are the specific conditions now a part of the nature of the entity?  Without determinism, or the ability to predict that if certain conditions obtain in the sphere of human action, certain results should occur, how does one engage in any form of psychology (or philosophy)?  How does one study social sciences like economics, if a person's nature and the circumstances that he finds himself in do not necessitate the decision he made?  Peikoff's example uses a balloon containing helium and a balloon containing sand.  What if the balloon was made of steel? What if the balloon was an airtight safe?  What if the balloon is released in an anti-gravity chamber, or in space?  Is the \\"choice to focus\\" independent of hunger?  Or is it independent of previous results of \\"focusing\\"?  Or maybe it is easier to focus when under pressure?  Complexity does not negate determinism.  There are dangers in people's misconceptions of what determinism entails, but Objectivism's concept of free will is simply untenable and confuses deterministic with mechanistic.  Paradoxical questions about consciousness are numerous; however, this is not the reason to condemn a position that has a factual and scientific basis. THERE is room for honest disagreement here.  Objectivism's view of concept formation is such that a concept is often applied with a suggestion of complete appropriateness without a review of the PRECISE context in which it was formed.  Hence, some Objectivists do not empathize sufficiently before dismissing other positions.<br />Objectivism claims that the intrinsicist school of philosophers holds that values are independent of consciousness and of life.  Well, Scott Ryan, and I have verified his claim, pointed out that Brand Blanshard believed that intrinsic goods were states of consciousness, and that other people have argued for other forms of intrinsic goods all dependent on consciousness.  The reason why Peikoff (and Rand did this too) can get away with this misrepresentation is because he rarely cites PRIMARY sources.  This is also related to my criticism of how Objectivists apply concepts.  We are all \\"guilty\\" of this problem given our finite nature of human beings, but those of us who are reasonable do not use it to claim omniscience of any form by ignoring contexts that are unacceptable to us.<br />This is a critical review because Objectivists often place Ayn Rand above error because they cannot check her insights in fields they do not specialize in.  This is good book of you want to know what Objectivism is about.  However, as a source of facts, the average reader, who will probably know much less about philosophy than is required to critically read this book.  He is asked to consider other defenders of reason, like Brand Blanshard and Laurence Du Bonjour, who are very often, but not always correct, and are open to genuine disagreement.  Blanshard's books are out of print and expensive (I didn't say that Rand was wrong that reason is under attack in modern day culture). Objectivist OPAR readers, realize that not all people who disagree with some of Objectivism's positions are irrational, given some of the problems that Objectivism's views of those who disagree with you might lead you into.	2002-02-03
US	52571938	R2BTR3ES0SLW4I	0945466102	636809103	What Has Government Done to Our Money?	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	You have to read it to believe it	This book is simply a classic, and I think that there is little in it that will be overturned by further discoveries about the nature of money.  Of course, even if this was to happen, the book will remain one of the best and clearest introductions to the topic of money.  The book is also a great example of expository and didactic prose, so it can also be read in that context.<br />In this book, Rothbard discusses the history and nature of money, and by doing both, explains to the reader what is wrong with the monetary system that the world operates on today.  Parts of his writing will be familiar to anyone who has taken a course in economics where money was discussed.  However, the more subtle facts about money (the money regression theorem, Gresham's Law, government intereference, the reasons he gives for the government's renunciation of the gold standard etc.) will be new and interesting territory for many readers.  Of course, if the ideas of this book are read and combined with the other ideas espoused by Austrian Economics, of which the author was a great proponent, then the truth and coherence of his arguments are very strong.<br />I strongly recommend this book.  Even those (like me) who do not agree with Rothbard's anarchism will find a lot in it that is good.	2002-01-28
US	52571938	R38OZ56WG7G9QO	0875481124	187282436	Reason & Analysis (Paul Carus Lectures)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Amending a statement that I made in my earlier review	I claimed in my last review that Blanshard rejects the &quot;Analytic-Synthetic&quot; dichotomy.  This is not totally true - he simply clarifies what Kant did intuitively (and puts it on a solid logical foundation), tosses away the terms &quot;Analytic&quot; and &quot;Synthetic&quot;, and then uses his clarified form of the ideas to refute the assertions of logical positivism that no truths can be deduced without verification in sense.<br />Reading of this book continually reveal more and more insight to me.  I give it my heartiest recommendations.	2001-12-09
US	52571938	R2ZF2XU8TYSW9Q	0875481124	187282436	Reason & Analysis (Paul Carus Lectures)	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Incredible, stylish AND lucid scholarship	Brand Blanshard's work in defence of Reason is incredible.  This book was published in 1962, and, given its length (especially at a time when there were no word processors), must have been in the works for some time before then.<br />Blanshard mostly takes on the philosophical schools of logical positivism and linguistic analysis in this volume, and is an opponent of any school of thought that denies or subverts the role of reason and logic in the acquisition of knowledge. <br />So what makes this book so good?  It is a perfect example of scholarship (similar to George Reisman's &quot;Capitalism&quot;), given its topic.  What do I mean by perfect?<br />1.  The author gives a historical overview of the material to be presented.  This allows a person to place ideas and positions in <BR>thier historical context, and to understand the nature of the <BR>debate that has preceded the material to be discussed.<br />2.  The author explains the position of the viewpoint that he is in disagreement with.  He cites references and quotes individuals.<br />3.  The author demolishes the arguments of the opponents to the greatest extent he probably can, and in a systematic way.  This ensures that all variants of the doctrine he is against are taken care of, and that any attempt to resurrect the doctrine in the future can be addressed with the arguments that he has already proposed.  He totally refutes logical atomism and other aspects of logical positivism, and shows that linguistic analysis, as well as logical positivism, is self refuting.<br />4.  The author then realizes that it is not enough to destroy - one must also replace the edifice that one has destroyed with a better one, or garbage might find its way onto the site where the old edifice once stood.  The author outlines the his view of reason and aspects of it in the final chapters of the book.<br />A note for Objectivists: Brand Blanshard also rejected the Analytic-Synthetic Dichotomy in this volume and was legendary enough to merit a place in the Library of Living Philosophers series.<br />It is very puzzling (and a statement about what is going on in the world today) that Blanshard's works are mostly out of print, while people who could not explain thier positions with the clarity and consistency that he did are worshipped as philosophical legends.  He dissects and makes thorough mincemeat of Wittgenstein's writings, showing that they are anything BUT logical(ly consistent).  However, I can't find Blanshard's books in any local bookstores, but I can find loads of Wittgenstein's writings.<br />You don't have to agree with everything in this book to gain from it.  Nothing is swept under the rug, and it is quite possible to honestly disagree with some points of view.  However, any flaws in the book are unlikely to be attributed to wilful dishonesty on the part of the author by the reader, but will definitely vary, depending on the view point of the reader on certain philosophical issues.  However, anybody committed to rationality will find a lot that is good in this book.<br />It is a good volume and there is lot to be gained by anyone who wants to investigate the lines along which thinking is done.	2001-12-07
US	52571938	R1WX347IG24QEF	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	3	20	33	N	N	A good piece of work, but the flaws undercut its argument	Thomas Sowell did some good work in this book.  Nowhere, in my opinion, is Sowell better than when he shows that the statistical methods employed by analysts can be manipulated to fit a certain view point.  He talks about race and age, and gives examples of how numbers are manipulated to fit a certain view of events.  OF course, the idea of statistical manipulation is a common one, but so many statistics that are commonly quoted today are often manipulated.  Hopefully, these sections will lead less people to quote statistical figures without ascertaining how the figures were obtained.<br />My favorite example is his analysis of loan default statistics reported along the lines of race.  His argument was that the rate of default would be SIGNIFICANTLY lower amongst the race that was discriminated against if unworthy applicants were being granted loans.  This argument should also hold if lower standards were being applied to the privileged race.  This was not the case and the default levels of all races were quite similar, and probably even higher for the race discriminated against, according to Sowell, showing that the standards for qualification were applied equally to individuals.  Now, there are arguments that can be made against this assertion by an appeal to improbable situations, but I leave that to those who want to live in denial about the objectivity of individual merit.<br />However, there are some things that make my recommendation of this book a wary one.<br />1) Sowell's positivist methodology: Sowell, like all people who sometimes use a positivist methodology, doesn't use it consistently, but whenever some of the effects creep in, the results can be dangerous.  Positivist generally assume that facts can be mixed and matched - that all facts are atomic and we associate events together but that few events are really metaphysically linked together.  For example, an extreme positivist might argue that there is *nothing* necessary about the sun rising everyday, and that it is not even contigent on other factors - it is a fact on its own divorced from all others.  We can only be sure that the sun will rise tomorrow if it does ( a brother of positivism is empiricism).<br />His assertion about the comparisons of the Ptolemiac and Copernican models of astronomy, and the Newtonian and Einsteinian models of mechanics/physics, is one.  It is not simply, as he asserts, that Einstein's model is more accurate than Newton's, and that is why Newton's model is used when it is sufficient, or that Copernican models are more complex that Ptolemy.  One also needs to remember that the correct elements of both models are QUITE similar, and the corrections proposed by Einstein and Copernicus might or might not be very significant when the accuracy of certain results is in question.  His summary gives the effect that Einstein is a totally different model from Newton's, though anyone who has actually worked with the equations in question will see that this is not the case - Einstein's equations have corrective factors that if taken out, reduce his equations to those of Newton.  The results for both equations are quite similar within a specific range, and this isn't a magical phenomenon.  This argument also applies to the Ptolemaic and Copernican models.<br />This might seem trivial, but it isnt: Sowell's positivist methodology gives the idea that prediction is essentially pragmatic, and that new knowledge totally contradicts old knowledge, which is rarely, if ever, the case - new knowledge usually extends old knowledge, by allowing for a wider context of results to be integrated with the original theory, or for corrections to be made to it.  Most of Sowell's best arguments do not rely on this positivist ideology, and would be invalidated by it.<br />2.  Sowell's concession to the morality of the anointed: Sowell seems to concede, at times in a tone akin to sarcasm, but at other times in a tone that seems sincere, that the Vision of the Anointed is a noble one, only that it is not achievable.  This concession, that ideals divorced from the facts, which negate what is one of the fundamentals of morality (respect for the TRUTH), can be sometimes noble, is a dangerous concession to make.  After all, it might pay to be noble, even if nobility is destructive.  If this isn't Sowell's intent, he should qualify his proper view of the morality and actions of the &quot;Anointed&quot;.<br />3.  His view about constrained and unconstrained thinkers, which, in my opinion, is sometimes a very unclear basis for separating ideas and thinkers.  It seems that even some of the greatest defenders of the free market would fall into the camp of the &quot;Anointed&quot;, and some Socialists would be &quot;Benighted&quot; if one was to use his definitions.<br />The economics in this book is quite good.  So is the statistical analysis.  However, the philosophical arguments do leave a bit to be desired.  Making concessions to pragmatism, positivism, and egalitarianism, especially if one understands how DESTRUCTIVE these philosophies are, is not the best thing for a defender of the free market (and truth) to do.  <br />This review is more critical that I would have liked. Sowell's citation of facts and copious references make this book very deserving of a read.  The clarity of his writing, in addition to the references, also makes it easy to address the arguments that Sowell proposes.  However, philosophy sometimes speaks more loudly than facts (which always need a philosophical explanation to have a moral basis) and Sowell makes subtle errors in this arena.	2001-11-13
US	52571938	RXBP0GCQ79FKB	1579212182	220011634	Reconsidering Ayn Rand	Books	1	22	32	N	N	A waste of time	Objectivism advocates reason and uses the process of reason combined with the necessary axioms that can be discovered by the inductive process to define the nature of reality.  It then proceeds to integrate them into a system which is structured and cohesive.<br />Rand's attacks on Christianity can easily be taken out of context and this is the case in this book.  Rand obviously didn't take Christianity seriously and her attacks were really questions that were meant to show some that Christanity is full of contradictions with respect to Christianity itself and with respect to reality.  She explained why Christianity was incompatible with strict reasoning.  Her understanding of Christianity can be attacked because she didn't consider it worth fully understanding in the first place because Christianity confines the nature of reality to acts of God, which are faith based and not reasonable.<br />Yang does not provide an answer to what the empirical basis for the existence of God is and how it contradicts existing knowledge on the nature of science and reality.  Without this information, there is no reason to honestly choose Christianity over any other contradictory religion with a sense of morals.  However, Objectivism lies in the realm of science and reason and strives to avoid contradiction.  It also gives a firm basis and reason for the study of reality and this places it way above other philosophies.<br />If you understand the basis of Objectivism, you would not even have to open the book to consider it a waste of time.  You wouldn't have to read this review either.	2001-01-26
US	52571938	RJ6EZ1M7L4517	185744518X	737847188	Easy Guide to the Reti Opening	Books	4	16	16	N	N	GOOD -  BETTER AS  A STUDY MANUAL THAN OPENING REPERTOIRE	I bought this book after I decided to drop e4, but I couldn't get my hands on Kosten's repertoire book for the English.<br />I liked this book and it is one that can improve your chess if it is studied properly, and not just your opening play either.  I did have a few quibbles with the book.<br />The author remained true to his favored double fianchetto piece set up in as many lines as he could.  Since I like to compare the similarity of plans emanating out of pawn structures, I really enjoyed seeing the subtle differences in the plans in those pawn structures.  The author did a great job in making the themes from game to game really consistent - you see why in this line, he recommends this move - it aims for a type of position he has explained earlier.  He discusses the alternatives, but explains that the move he presents/prefers is more in line with the rest of the repertoire he is teaching.  The quality of the material in the book itself is in my opinion deserving of a 5 star rating if one is over 1600 USCF and this goes as high as GM.  There are variations here as well as lots of words.  There are also improvements on assessments on evaluations offered.<br />You could play this opening comfortably if you studied the relevant line in this book.  OFten, move order is not a problem and the critical play begins after a variety of typical set ups have been established.  THe pawn structure play that characterises this opening suits players who are not fond of sharp opening complications.  The danger of course is that you learn to play formations and not thinking chess, but I think the author presetns so many plans in this book that if you play lazy chess, he is not to be blamed.  He definitely does not espouse a cookbook approach.  However, he does produce positions with recurring themes.<br />What do I think could be better about the book?  Well, skipping defences like 1.. c5 and 1 ... g6 really hurt.  Those moves are commonly played vs Nf3.  While a good study of the book  might still allow you to transpose into a line given in the book, I would still have liked to see Dunnington present plans which he liked.<br />I think this is a great book.  But the c5 omission weighs heavily against it becos it invites a Siclian transposition and is the choice of most players.  As a game collection to be studied, it would improve your chess greatly - just comparing the lines and games in similar pawn structures would greatly increase your chess knowledge.  If I Reviewed it solely on that criteria, it is a 5 star book.	2000-09-22
US	52571938	R3601DPAREXVPH	1901259021	982144013	The Scandinavian	Books	5	31	35	N	N	THIS IS A GOOD BOOK	I had to write this review after seeing what had been written below by other reviewers.<br />The Scandinavian is one of the few lines were understanding piece placement and typical themes can get you thru most of the lines.  OF course, some lines are sharp, but that is why you get an opening book - to have an idea what the typical GM plans/moves are.<br />The line that people have given with Ne4 is not close to a test of the Scandinavian - no GM would seriously play it against a peer.<br />THe key to learning an opening like the Scandi is to know the typical ideas that are common within the pawn structure and with specific piece placements.  GM Emms does this very well - I learned some tactical patterns after repeated use and study of the Icelandic Gambit and the attacking themes in it.  He also explains the key idea of the Scandi - light square domination - and stresses it wherever it occurs.<br />I think the book is theoretically correct in the mainlines.  Some of the sidelines are not as well explained or analyzed - but I think that will be a failing in any book where a GM has to look thru many games.  Emms does recommend new moves on occasion, though since I'm not a chess magazine subscriber, I'm unsure how much of his material is new or original.<br />However, for anyone who wants to understand the Scandinavian, you can do much worse than buy this book.  Just playing over all the games in a chapter gives you an idea of what goes on in that line.  A lot of credit goes to the opening and its simple (if you can say that about chess) nature, but credit must also be given to the writer for his selection of games and his explanations of thematic ideas.	2000-09-20
US	52571938	R3IXX93JJWGW9Y	0486238008	144755745	Zurich International Chess Tournament, 1953 (Dover Chess)	Books	5	74	80	N	N	What more can be said	The other reviews on this page don't say much about this book becos its  place in chess literature as a classic is indisputable.  So I'll try to say  something about what makes it so great so that chess players who do not  know a lot about the history of the game will appreciate its value.<br />The  tournament that is annotated is the Zurich 1953 Candidates tournament, the  tournament whose winnner would challenge the World Champion for the title.   The author of the book is Bronstein, who was among the 3 players who tied  for second and is generally acknowledged as one of the most creative and  invnetive players in ches history(he was the previous challenger for the  World Championship and drew with the Champion under highly controversial  circumstances).<br />So what do we have in this book and what about it's  material makes it so valuable?  The first thing is that while the reality  of chess is in the variations, the grandmaster author (Bronstein) focuses  in the ideas and the schematic thinking necessary to guide the player thru  analyzing variations and understanding the position.<br />In addition, the  quality of play is quite high and Bronstein also discusses the real time  events that guide play such as the mindset of the players and the time they  had to make moves.  When one looks at a gamescore, these are not evident  and understanding chess in the practical light is very important for the  learning player, who might not understand the nuances of chess as a  sport.<br />Finally, many of the games are played with similar openings so  this is a way to learn opening themes and pawn structure play without  buying 10 books.  IT is not cutting edge theory, but the schematic thinking  and understanding the reasons why the GMs play the way they do will do more  for your chess than any opening book with symbolic evaluations.  In  addition, the subtleties of certain positions are explained by Bronstein to  show why this method of play is not as strong as another method of play  seen in another game.<br />Factor in the fact that this is a cheap book for  one in Algebraic notation and you see that there is little to complain  about.  Enjoy if you buy!	2000-09-07
US	52571938	R188ERMD8GEMFC	1901983250	86821347	Storming the Barricades	Books	5	75	79	N	Y	Great Attacking Manual	I think that a player's appreciation of this book depends on what he seeks  in the first place and how he views chess.  Some people view chess as more  a science than a sport in which complexity is superceded or controlled by  principle and in which the human side of chess play is not as important as  the position on the board.  Others relish the struggle and the complexity  of certain battles and look more to the realistic and practical view of  chess as a sport.<br />I, as a player, have found that I improved the most  after making a concerted effort to understand some of the CANDID thought  processes of strongers players, not the flowery language used to make chess  look simple or one-sided.  This explains why the books I like are usually  books that aim at the methods of improvement and the approach to analysis  of stronger players, especially when the books present the psychological  problems the players faced in improving.  This is why books like  &quot;Improve Your Chess Now&quot; by Jon Tisdall, &quot;Zurich 1953&quot;  by Bronstein and &quot;Secrets of Modern Strategy&quot; by John Watson,  &quot;Inner Game of Chess&quot; by Andy Soltis and &quot;The Amateur's  Mind&quot; by Jeremy Silman are great books - they give you an insight into  the thought processes of better players.<br />Here, we have one of America's  strongest homegrown talents and a player, who in his prime, was considered  one of the World's finest tacticians writing a book on how to attack.  But  how does he go about it?<br />He first of all says that his primary goal is to  inspire the upcoming chess player and instil within that player, the spirit  of the attacker.  This is done by showing a large number of high quality  games and sacrificial concepts.  I think this works becos a starting out  player is bound to much by materialism - seeing examples in which material  is freely tossed for other advnatages can be liberating.<br />He often  explains the thought process that pointed the attacker in the direction of  looking for an attack.  Speculative attacks, of the type for which Tal and  Shirov and even the author is famous, abound in this book and the seeds of  those attack are explained, which explains why even if the attack wasn't  sound, it wasn't sound for a specific reason, but elements for the idea did  exist in the position.<br />He even solves a position which he didn't play to  explain how an attacker would go about looking at a position.  He explains  the foundation(TACTICS) for how to become an attacking player and gives a  short autobiographical chaper on his development.<br />There is a chapter on  badly played attacks.  The author features some of his losses and even  tosses in some of his badly played attacks.<br />He ends the book with a list  of the top 10 attacking games of the 90s.  Most of the games are popular,  but a look at Serper-Nikoliadis, is to my mind, almost worth the cost of  the book.  Such a game should be more famous (maybe the fact that the loser  was an IM had something to do with that?)<br />The valuable advice in this  book is in between the lines, but if you look you shall find - calculate  all forcing moves, leads in development should be explioted by the opening  of lines(even at the cost of material), attacks naturally appear with  material advantages in sectors of the board.  The book is even humorous in  presenting many ideas and has a realistic side to it as LArry relates his  experiences.<br />Criticism: well, at times, when annotating the games of  other players, he might have at times overestimates the depth to which the  attacker calculated.  He cannot be totally faulted for this becos these  were not his games, but I know one example (Wohl-Gipslis) where Wohl only  knew he had at least a draw in the critical position and found the winning  move in that position when it appeared on the board. There was another  example, but I Cannot remember it as I write.<br />Many players will pick up  this books looking for a catalogue of attacking themes.  This is not the  book for you - &quot;The Art of Attack&quot; by Vukovic does that.  However, that is an old book that does not totally reflect the concrete  nature of modern chess and the unclear nature of many sharp ideas played by  GMs.<br />If you love beautiful attacking chess, this is a great book - almost  every game has a beautiful tactic in it.  This is a good enuff reason to  buy the book.<br />If you want to understudy an attacking player, this is  probably the best book to buy - the sharpness of my OTB games went up  considerably after studying this book.  To study this book is to see how  chess in the spirit of Tal can be played.  Your defensive skills will  improve too becos you will see that both attack and defence strain the  resources of both players.	2000-09-06
US	52571938	R31KM9GXN94CWJ	1857442504	487915350	How to Defend in Chess	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A GOOD BOOK - A VARIETY OF COMPELLING  REASONS TO BUY IT!	Well, chess cannot be learned from only one book and of course this book  assumes a lot of stuff about the player who wants to learn defence - I  think that a player who wants to study this book must be decently strong  (USCF 1400) and must know what the general types of defensive schemes are  (prophylactic defence, counterattacking defence, complication creation  etc.).  They are explained in the book, but I've always wondered how much  experience I bring to the table when reading these books and how a lesser  player would view them.<br />The most compelling reason to buy this book is  the annotation of games by two of the most underrepresented World Champions  in today's chess scene in terms of annotated game collections - Lasker and  Petrosian.  While this is not a best games collection or the collection of  thier most brilliant games (though this is almost the case with respect to  Petrosian's defensive efforts), there is some great annotations with some  original analysis to be found in this book on some famous games.<br />Another  great reason to buy this book is that is gives a good sense of chess  history by using encounters between world champions and candidates for  thier thrones, the few exceptions being referenced analysis.  It also  discusses the evolution of the theory of defence and try to analyze this  evolution scientifically.<br />The third reason, and a personal favorite, is  the approach to teaching defence.  Rather than cataloguing defensive  maneuvers, an approach which has its merits, but has been done in a couple  of famous past books both named &quot;The Art of Defence&quot;, this book  tries to look at whole games and the switch in thought process required as  the game progresses.  The author tries to look at the psychological aspects  of defence as well as the flow and objective nature of the game.  In my  opinion, whether he is right is not as important as whether he is helpful  and I think he is probably both in many cases when judging games on the  basis of analysis and his knowlege of the players.  THe mindset of the  defender is well described in this book.<br />A very instructive book - it is  the kind of book that makes chess worth studying becos you get entertained  on all the levels that make chess not just a game, but a lifestyle.	2000-09-06
US	52571938	R1J2Q50LEPUT7Q	185744275X	715159385	Easy Guide to the Dragon	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Easy Guide(?) - A misleading title	There is very little verbal explanation in this book - one is simply shown masses of variations. Tis is typical of sharp lines like the Sicilian Dragon - hence, there is no point in really claiming to write Easy Guides  on such Openings.<br />However, the book scores highly on all other points -  good writing/translation and evaluations and assessments of critical and  off beat lines by the author( a Dragon expert and GM practitioner who has  introduced a few novelties in this opening).  I prefer this book to the  Gufeld-Stetsko book on the same opening, though I think players new to the  Dragon should not expect to find loads of words that make thier lives  easier.<br />Highly recommended to any Dragon player, and is content-wise  deserving of 5 stars.  However, that misleading title...	2000-04-11
US	52571938	R3J8834Z9FFN1L	0713479868	873930410	The Sicilian Accelerated Dragon: Improve Your Results with New Ideas in This Dynamic Opening	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Complete and instructive coverage of the Accelerated Dragon	This book covers all lines of the Accelerated Dragon including the variety of systems played vs. the Maroczy Bind and alternative set-ups.  It has the added plus of using research from an earlier book (Silman and Donaldson) on  the same subject.  While the use of complete games may not appeal to all  readers, themes are covered and explained in every line and there are loads  of suggestions with improvements in certain lines and reassessments of  others.  Both authors play the Accelerated and Heine-Nielsen, the 1999  Danish Champion, has a lot of his games on display.<br />While the book shows  a bias for Black in that they try to prove that the opening is playable,  they do evaluate the positions objectively and games feature wins and  losses for both sides and clearly show critical lines, especially in the  end of chapter summaries.  In addition, the Hyper Accelerated Dragon with  (2 ....g6) and the Semi Accelerated are covered (4 .... Nf6).  <br />I noticed  that a line in NCO in the Semi Accelerated was not given and it seemed  superior to the line given by this book as a model.  However, this is a  well written and thorough guide on the Accelerated Dragon and related  systems and is recommended if you need only opne book on the opening.	2000-04-11
US	52571938	R1DC77K1MMJPEH	185744129X	616723821	Final Countdown	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	I was highly impressed	How often does it happen that a formulaic scientific method can be applied consistently to a set of positions that seem to differ widely and work?  This book does that very well.  I have learned to respect scientific mentod  when it occurs in chess and unlike some efforts(Hans Berliner, Tarrasch),  this one does very well.  It will improve your understanding of K+P greatly  and it is very hard work (maybe 1800+ material after the first 4 chapters).   The systematic evaulation of the desired positions and key squuares and  thier reationship to one another before calculating variations is a very  powerful idea.  It makes one want to play K+P endings all the time- yeah,  the knowledge learned cannot be applied every day :( - but if you want to  improve your understanding of K+P to an IM/GM level and want to work, you  have to buy this book.	2000-03-03
US	52571938	R14T8MRKLFSJ21	1901983242	223847462	The Road to Chess Improvement	Books	5	72	80	N	Y	The Truth keeps on being told	I'd hate to repeat what LArry Tamarkin said, but I was one of the people who grew up on the classical texts that explained moves with principles and classified players as positional or tactical.  Now, since I have more money  to buy books, and since there are more books by GM authors who are willing  to tell the truth about how to improve, I am beginning to understand chess  better and see that it is much more complex than I initially thought as a  kid.  The number of books that work on the thought process required to  improve has grown and they are much more realistic than the  propaganda-laden, &quot;Think like a GM&quot;, which at times made it seem  like the Russian Schoolboy was a born genius.  &quot;The Road to Chess  Improvement&quot; is the newest and probably the best in the line of new  age books for the following reasons  1) it is written by a GM. 2) it has  more examples of the(not a) GM's games in a realistic context (putting it  ahead of previous groundbreaking works which usually used other's games) 3)  it shows a lot of the psychological struggle tha the game of chess entails  and games which  I had seen earlier and thought were clear cut(Yermolinsky  -Serper, Chicago 1996) were put in a much more revealing light. 4) It  contributes to a synergistic view of the chess game since a lot is  discussed and seeing the chess game as a complet whole is a problem for  many players who try to attach one rule to every position.<br />The Computer  chapter is dissappointing and I am yet to see a discussion of what is  becoming my favorite phase of the game(endgame).  But this book is much  better than most of the books coming now and like Tisdall(Improve Now),  Nunn(Practical), Watson(Modern Strategy), Soltis(Inner Game),  Silman(Amateur,REassess) is one of the books you have to get if you want to  see how the better players see the game.  Studying becomes much easier with  that understanding. Highly recommended and even more so than Watson for  players betwen 1500 and 2000 USCF.00 and 2000 USCF.	2000-02-24
US	52571938	R24MAJEUUBPI5Q	1901983072	599831692	Secrets of Modern Chess Strategy: Advances since Nimzowitsch	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Good for all platers- better suited to those over 1400	Most people say this book is advanced and can't be appreciated by weaker players (under 2000s).  I disagree, even if only my personal experience with the book supports it.<br />I think that this book, coupled with the  Silman series and the Nimzovich series, will give players a better insight  into how stronger players think.  I think that the reality as described by  Watson really helped me understand what was meant by not following rules  blindly and exceptions.  It also enabled me to read annotations better.  I  now know that when people admire the two bishops, there must be factors in  the positions supportng them.  When analyzing an idea, tactical nuances  regin supreme and concrete analysis is the true judge of the merits and  demerits of the idea.<br />Now, I happily memorize opening lines, classic  games and positions and try to augment them with the positional ideas I  gleaned from Silman and Nimzovich.  The result is a rating that is growing  fast -&gt; I was 1500 and now I'm expert strength.  I discovered that you  just have to find your own way in chess, and use the games of masters as a  guide on how to play, but in the end, you just have to trust yourself.<br />I  hope these books can reward you the same way they have rewarded me.  I cna  now look at GM games and appreicate the ideas.  Howver, I now have to  imrpvoe my tactics :) Then I will be master strenght.  But the thinking  that got me there started with this book -go go buy it!	1999-12-08
US	52571938	R1UB6XYZZKKOK4	1901983145	185201817	The Dynamic English : The aggressive player's guide to a traditional chess opening	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The English is fun!	I play the lines in this book in blitz and correspondence - no OTB tests yet, but they will be coming up next year - and the results are quite encouraging.  The only rub I've discovered are in a few of the Symmetrical  English lines... he just missed some move orders and gave one line that can  only be played OTB, not in correspondence.  Highly recommended.	1999-12-06
US	52571938	R2HN5UJREF4YQP	1901259064	616948030	Closed Sicilian	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The last chapter alone is worth the book	In addition to an in depth coverage of newer ideas in the Closed Sicilian (it omits some games with old plans and produces newer plans in those lines), this book has an interesting version of the Closed Sicilian with c3  instead of Nc3 that is in my opinion worth the book.  It also has some  advice between the lines that are highly instructive.  I made a career out  of playing the Closed Sicilian in the ICC and gained about 200pts while  winning a losing and learning how important prophylaxis was in wing  attacks.  For anyone who wants to develop thier chess.  IT also gives you a  good system to play vs. the English, though this is not explicitly done for  the reader.	1999-12-06
US	52571938	R2POT2HSFLNQXT	1890085022	389332715	The Amateur's Mind: Turning Chess Misconceptions into Chess Mastery	Books	5	5	9	N	N	And you thought you had read books that improved your chess	This is an incredible piece of work.  The Silman technique espoused in &quot;Reassess Your Chess&quot; was a great help, but it's hard to apply to your games becos at times, you have too much faith in your old ways.  This  books helps the transition and I finally have the confidence that I'll  attain my goal of the master title quite soon.	1999-08-24
US	52571938	RSYKD0T64A6NI	0080111971	996987103	Art of Attack in Chess	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The most important middlegame chess book I have read to date	The Art of Attack is a book that does not deserve to be out of print. IT is the classic manual on how to attack and it treats all aspects of the attack.  IT isn't just a combinative manual: it shows you how the attack on the King is truly a culmination of strategic advantages and what factors in a position are for or against the attack.  IT then explains how favorable endgames are linked to brilliant attacks.  IT also includes a chapter on defence.  This book is guarnteed to increase ytour rating.  The only problem is that it's in descriptive notation.  But I promise you that it's worth learning descriptive to read this book.New Jersey.	1998-07-16
