US	52579911	RHX2ZTR9ZSWTL	0375709150	138494613	Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Spain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Funny, insightful, enjoyable	A witty and entertaining biographical account of an English couple's assimilation into the life of the Andalusian countryside.  Subtly sentimental, the author seems to have an endless supply of colorful acquaintances, including local farmers, livestock dealers, and a variety of eccentric refugees from northern Europe.  <br />An interesting theme, albeit perhaps not an explicit one, is that of the loss of an ancient way of life, and its replacement by an easier, more technology-driven lifestyle.  Traditional Spanish farmers, living without electricity or running water, are selling their farms to foreigners, and moving to the city.  Foreign farmers like the author are anxious to learn local techniques, yet they are not only more willing to experiment, but they also bring technology with them, such as electric sheep-shearing equipment.  The description of the annual pig slaughter reminded me very much of the stories carefully preserved in the 'Foxfire' series of books about Appalachian America.  Such rituals were once common and necessary throughout the rural world, but are not increasingly less significant in a time when agriculture is becoming increasingly more factory like.<br />This was a perfect book to read alongside the pool during a relaxing week in Ronda.  Often laugh-out-loud funny, it was an interesting and even educational read, that helped me understand the people and ecology of the mountainous southeastern region of Andalucia.  Although the author has a highly-developed sense of observation and detachment, developed no doubt through years of experience writing for travel guides, at no time did he ever become unsympathetic to his subject or lose the ability to laugh at himself in his sometimes clumsy attempts to fit into a new culture.  Its a marvelous book, and I highly recommend it to anyone who is travelling to southern Spain, who is interested in back-to-the-farm success stories, or who finally, anyone who enjoys a good story about real people.	2002-07-06
US	52579911	RM4LBHVGEX53H	0750925809	68569217	The Great Stink of London: Sir Joseph Bazalgette and the Cleansing of the Victorian Metropolis	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Interesting subject, good read	A fascinating story and worthy tribute to Joseph Bazalgette, an underappreciated Victorina-era engineer responsible not only for designing and overseeing the construction of London's huge sanitary sewer system, but also the construction of Victoria, Chelsea and Albert Embankments, forever changing the face and character of central London.  We take so much of our modern cities for granted, not realizing that entire rivers are flowing under the streets, blissfully unaware of the level of vision and committment required to create an infrastructure that provides health and convenience.  <br />The writing style is breezy and lucid, although the author has a distracting habit of repetition.  Certain factoids, such as &quot;the embankments reclaimed 52 acres of land&quot; are repeated over and over again, and several favorite quotes are repeated at least 3 times.    <br />I won't ever look at a modern city the same way.	2001-11-11
US	52579911	RJBF2BI2Q4XER	1569471746	491019404	The devil's cup : coffee, the driving force in history	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great read, more travelogue than history	This is a quick and enjoyable book.  Although I actually did learn quite a bit about an interesting subject, the book is as much of a travel story as it is the history of a foodstuff that has only become ubiquitous during the last several centuries.<br />I suspect that the search for the roots of coffee is just an excuse for a jaunt around the world, from the rain forests of Africa, to the bleakest coast of the Arabian peninsula, to an art scam in India, across the Atlantic in a tramp steamer and finally a road trip across America.  Well, actually, that's a bit of a simplification--I missed a couple of continents.<br />It is an entertaining book.  The author has a wry sense of humor and is an astute observer of human diversity.  He's also something of a free spirit, and I have to wonder if his being stopped by Southern Patrolmen looking for drugs came as more of a surprise to him than to the reader.   <br />The book really does operate at two levels, providing an interesting and informative story about the history of coffee, viewing it through contemporary eyes in the many locations  where coffee made its way through history, eventually culminating in Starbucks.  <br />Looking for the perfect cuppa joe?  Sounds like a good story.  Yeah.  We can have some fun with that.  Ask the barista for another latte grande and enjoy.	2001-10-30
US	52579911	R3UH14FBVQSKDQ	0195138414	373258951	Islam in the World	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A difficult read, but informative for the committed reader	In the preface, the author, who has experience in both worlds, explains the difficulty of balancing between the academic and the journalistic.   Well, it doesn't read like a journalist wrote it.<br />If you are comfortable with terms like ontology and teleological, you should do fine with this one, but it would have been possible to write a descriptive book about religion and culture without having to use the word 'discourse' so often. It reads much more like a textbook than is necessary for a book that is not necessarily aimed at a university audience.  A typical sentence reads &quot;Extreme or antinomian religious positions can often be related to socio-economic factors, although the traditions to which they give rise may eventually acquire an autonomous existence.&quot;   <br />It is difficult to use Arabic names and terms without losing a reader who is not familiar with that language, and I found it somewhat confusing remembering the significance of certain Islamic thought leaders when their names reappeared several chapters after their intial introduction.  <br />It is my belief that many of those looking for a quick understanding of the Taliban and the forces that motivate them, will find this book heavy going.   Casual readers beware.<br />Although I have done a lot of reading in comparative religion, I do not know enough about Islam to provide a judgement on the book's accuracy.  In comparison with other 'religion' texts, I found it informative and at times inciteful.   The subject is highly complex, and most outsiders have only a superficial understanding of Islamic culture.  Towards bridging that gap, I found this a comprehensive guide, providing both historical and social prospectives on the dynamics of the middle-eastern and other islamic peoples.   The author has both personal experience in the Middle East, and has studied and taught the subject, so his credentials are excellent.<br />The maps, suggestions for further reading, and timeline are all useful references.  <br />Those who want to take a serious look at the subject will find this an appropriate text.	2001-10-30
US	52579911	R2GLRQBPUIIX6I	0521278929	749149275	Acceptable Risk	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Brilliant and insightful	This is a brilliant and stimulating book.  Although it nominally concerns itself with the area of hazard management, policy and technology choices associated with loss of life or limb, it provides a great deal of insight into all forms of risk management and formal decision making.<br />A very well-researched book, it is obvious that the authors have not only thought long and hard about the subject matter, but have also applied a very disciplined analysis to it. Although the authors are scholars, the book is not necessarily aimed at an academic audience.  While challenging, it is still approachable by the lay person. <br />The text does not recommend any particular methodology for decision making, but instead provides a context within which different decision making methods can be understood and evaluated.  It begins by analyzing the problems confronting all acceptable risk decisions, discussing '5 generic complexities' that negatively affect all forms of formal risk analysis.  Then the authors provide '7 criteria for evaluating the acceptability of approaches to acceptable risk.'  The remainder of the book is spent analyzing approaches to risk management on a spectrum of empirical to formal methods, using their 7 criteria.<br />I found it an extremely enlightening text with applicability beyond that stated by the authors.  It sheds light on many of the 'formal' methods that have been developed for areas of concern to me, specifically in the Information Security field, which often tends towards voodoo analysis based on unstated assumptions and incomplete methodologies.    Although it was written over 20 years ago, it still provides a great deal of utility and insight today.  One of the text's final recommendations is that the field of Risk Management be made into a formal career choice, with all of the 'formal trappings'.  It is a tribute to the foresight of the authors that this is exactly what is happening today, with the emergence of the Chief Risk Officer role,trade journals devoted to the generic concept of risk, and ever greater academic attention and career training in risk management.	2001-04-29
US	52579911	R1ZWOKASFDDAGR	0738202711	327509679	Spooked: Espionage In Corporate America	Books	3	15	16	N	Y	Has some utility, but not a significant work	I don't know why this short text is in hardcover, and as mentioned in the other reviews, it is more than a bit disjointed, and suffers from some flaws in research.   <br />On the positive side, Chapters 4 &amp; 5 are a useful description of social engineering, that can help the reader better understand how vulnerable an organization is to simple information gathering techniques.   It is difficult to find material on the subject of 'Information Brokers', so this book provides a useful source on that subject, although no specific topic is covered in depth.<br />I found Fialka's book, &quot;War By Other Means,&quot; a more informative and interesting read.  Fialka's book doesn't discuss the Avery case which comprises the greater part of &quot;Spooked,&quot; so the books are somewhat complementary if you are looking for additional examples of industrial espionage.<br />&quot;Spooked&quot; is a quick read, and outside of some structural weaknesses in its organization, it is an enjoyable enough text.  It is more of a 'popular' approach to this subject, aimed at the casual reader who is more interested in titillation than in substance.	2001-04-22
US	52579911	RQ5YTHMCZMDIT	0929652118	346366945	Enterprise E-Commerce	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Moments of brilliance, but not consistent	The subject of E-commerce is a curious one.  I mean, what is it?  Is it only electronic storefronts, or does it apply to airline frequent flier sites?  What about business to business?  What exactly do you expect to find in a book on this subject?  Do you need a how-to guide on building transaction-oriented web applications?    E-commerce texts seem to fall into 1 of 3 areas:  marketing, design, and 'both'.   This book falls into the 'both' category.<br />I can easily envision a generation of MBA students (with no actual experience doing anything in the real world) being inspired by this book, and confidently setting out into the work world armed with a veritable dictionary full of E-commerce buzzwords.  After all, that is much of what an education consists of-gaining a specialized language.   In this book, the buzzwords come thick and fast.  The reader is warned about this on the cover, and the authors take pains to explain in the preface that just because something is a buzzword, doesn't mean that it doesn't mean anything.   Such use of language can be distracting, but keep in mind that sometimes a paradigm actually is a paradigm.<br />Several of the chapters are almost inspirational, especially Chapter 1, which is profound and insightful, providing guidance to both general managers and technicians.  Engineers would be well-advised to avoid being naïve about human behavior and not let their personal feelings about privacy blind them to the consumer desire for customization.   Many web sites would be much more appealing to their patrons if their designers and decision-makers understood this chapter and its e-commerce imperatives.<br />Unfortunately, the book is marred by an uneven approach.  Chapter 7, for instance, is a disaster, filled with gems like &quot;An industry-specific component is unique to a given industry.&quot;  This chapter is on component-based development, which is a difficult and complex subject, yet is crucial to contemporary E-business application architectures.   I'm not sure how much a non-technical person can expect to get out of this chapter, but the gist of it probably comes through, and at least the reader gets exposed to important technology acronyms such as CORBA and JDBC.<br />Chapter 8, &quot;E-Commerce Business and Technology Strategies,&quot; appears to have been written by the same author as Chapter 1, and it flies high, containing very wise statements such as &quot;Before inter-enterprise teams can be effective, they need to build a shared vision.&quot;  Internet applications are complex; I have seen what happens without such a shared vision, and it isn't pretty.  Unfortunately, this chapter bogs down in sections also.  I think the author is onto something profound with &quot;What if the business engineering process was carried out with business components as the modeling medium?&quot;  but I really don't understand what it means-just a bit more discussion might have resulted in a blinding insight for me here.<br />One area that I thought especially interesting was the topic of standards, and the politics behind the standards bodies.  The experience of the authors in this ever-changing business area is shared here to the benefit of architects who have to choose among competing standards-choices that may turn out to be very expensive several years down the road.<br />Overall, the book is information dense.  There is quite a lot of ideas here, and I kept several colors of highlighter busy during the first read through.  I might skim it again, because I didn't get it all the first time.  There are so many things to discuss when a book sets out to introduce both the business models and the technology models.  I think the authors were more successful in the former, and their introduction of concepts such as 'agility' and 'community' would greatly help the architects, designers, and coders in understanding exactly why they are being asked to do what they are doing.  As far as the technology presentation goes, in general it is superficial and inadequate.  Security is a vitally important topic in E-commerce design, but is given very little coverage.  A 1.5 page introduction to the topic of public key encryption is entirely inadequate-I personally cannot cover this complex idea in such a short amount of space.  Several of the other technology areas were given equally short shrift, making this a whirlwind tour that introduces, but doesn't always satisfy.<br />I recommend it, but I wish it were less uneven.  The book does live up to its jacket, and it is entirely reasonably to claim &quot;This comprehensive guide takes a holistic view of business and technology, enabling CEOs, COOs, CIOs, and CTOs to move boldly into their e-Commerce initiatives.&quot;   It truly is an information system area that requires a high degree of interaction between both sides of a corporation, and the firms that succeed in this space will be those with employees who understand both technology and marketing.  &quot;Enterprise E-Commerce&quot; provides a useful bridge between these often conflicting functions.	2001-04-17
US	52579911	R3OVWXIMJ37QY8	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	2	26	45	N	Y	I couldn't finish it: uninteresting and flawed execution	I took this book on an extended out-of-town trip to Europe.  Actually being in some of the places where the events unfolded should have made it more meaningful to me, but once I returned home, I put the book on the shelf and never opened it up again.<br />Don't get me wrong--it wasn't a waste of time.  When I see the name Paracelsus over a Swiss doorway, I have a new found appreciation for who he was.  Jonathon Swift is another European personality I now understand in a deeper way.  But I found it a chore to wade through this book.  If you check out some of my other reviews, you'll see that I have read some pretty dry books, and that I normally avoid trivial works.  I consider myself a serious and motivated reader, and I still thought this was boring, with material of wildly inconsistent relevance.<br />I found the author's attempts to redefine the English language as distracting and ill-conceived.  I encourage any writer to attempt to change prevailing attitudes and shine new light on old material--but I just wasn't sold by all of Barzun's attempts at making obscure personalities relevant.  I finally gave up somewhere in early 19th century.  Perhaps I'll finish it somebody, but the book is in storage now and I've found other sources that are more useful to my attempts to better understand Europe.<br />I'm currently reading &quot;Europe&quot; by Norm Davies.  This is comparable in that it is equally long, and perhaps equally non-traditional.  Many of the same historical figures are discussed, and like &quot;Dawn to Decadence,&quot; it also requires a motivated reader.  But in spite of the difficulties with Davies' book, I expect to rate it at a '4', and Barzun is only a '2' by me.<br />Some apparently do find this as a worthy text.  That's fine, everyone has different tastes, but it would be helpful if those readers who liked this book could write reviews that would help prospective readers better evaluate whether it fit their tastes, too.  I think personal taste has quite a bit to do with the individual reader's reception of this book--perhaps more so than a typical history book.  Barzun had some interesting vignettes, but I just found the text uninteresting, and the author's agenda is annoying to me.  I found it pretentious and overly-intellectual, but without substance.  It is a significant tour de force of cultural obscurities, but it did not create a picture for me.  I don't have any new insights or understandings.<br />Just because it is big, doesn't mean that it is worthy.s quite a bit to do with the individual reader's reception of this book--perhaps more so than a typical history book.  Barzun had some interesting vignettes, but I just found the text uninteresting, and the author's agenda is annoying to me.  I found it pretentious and overly-intellectual, but without substance.  It is a significant tour de force of cultural obscurities, but it did not create a picture for me.  I don't have any new insights or understandings.<br />Just because it is big, doesn't mean that it is worthy.	2001-04-06
US	52579911	RW35FQ64Y2127	0786705205	118312275	The Austrians: A Thousand-Year Odyssey	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Not perfect, but best overview of Austrian history avail	English-language books on the long-term history of Austria are relatively rare.  Admittedly, Austria was one of the most historically interesting places in the world during the latter part of Franz Josef's reign-dozens of interesting books are available covering events and movements encompassing the intellectual flowering of Wien beginning in the late Victorian period.  Giant personalities in the fields of visual art, psychology, music, philosophy, literature and theatre could seemingly be found in every coffee house in turn-of-the century Wien.  <br />But judging from the available books, outside of the ever-busy Hapsburg family, little of interest to the rest of the world seems to have taken place before the last quarter of the 19th century.  This is reflected in &quot;The Austrians&quot;, which in spite of being a 483 page book, reaches the year 1866 by page 88. I think it would be fair to think of the book as more like a 140-year odyssey with a very long introduction.<br />Outside of the short shrift given to early Austrian history, I found this an enjoyable and informative book.  Austria is unique among modern European nations in having been for centuries the spiritual center of one of Europe's largest empires, yet it is now a relatively small country of relatively little influence on the world stage-the teutonic rump left over from the mostly-voluntary dissolution of a multi-ethnic dual-monarchy.  Given this relatively short period in which to develop a sense of unique national identity, Brook-Shepherd attempts to show in his book how seminal events in Austrian history are either influential on today's sense of nationhood (however strong that may be), or are least illustrative of typical characteristics of Austrian culture or character.  This is a difficult task, and I think the author is only partially successful.<br />Still, it is a noble attempt, and although it sometimes feels as if the author is straining to make an obscure point about Austrian nationhood, in general, this doesn't really interfere with the book.   The author has spent significant time in post-war Austria and has a number of interesting contacts both within what is left of the Hapsburg family and within the Austrian political sphere.  He certainly cannot be blamed for taking use of these journalistic and personal contacts in substantiating his history, and unlike some reviewers, I did not feel that this was excessive-it did not distract from the flow of the book for me at all.  I cannot say this about the excessive use of footnotes, which I found extremely distracting.  <br />Overall, I found this an enjoyable and informative book.  In spite of some flaws, it is the best single-volume English-language source I've found on what is unfortunately, something of an obscure subject.  I find it to be complementary to Andrew Wheatcroft's &quot;The Hapsburgs.&quot; It takes a very different approach and they two books have relatively minimal overlap.	2001-04-01
US	52579911	R32YV26NVNW2X8	0140236341	822542118	The Habsburgs: Embodying Empire	Books	3	53	59	N	N	Interesting ideas, but execution could have been better	This book is not a history of Austria-as the title indicates, it is a history of the Habsburgs, the hereditary rulers of Austria.  As I mentioned in my review of Brook-Shepherd's book, &quot;The Austrians&quot; (a book that is complementary to this one, with relatively little overlap), there really isn't a great deal of material available in English on Austrian history-at least not on events taking place before the latter half of the 19th century.<br />From the traditional historical point of view-that in which history is the chronology recounting of war and changes in power-nothing of significance really happened in Austria that wasn't somehow associated with the Habsburgs.  Whether or not this is the case is the subject of a different book-the subject of this one is the Habsburg family itself.  Although their presence lasted longer in Austria than anywhere else, this powerful family also ruled the Netherlands, and Spain, and often provided the figurehead for the Holy Roman Empire.<br />Probably to an extent greater than any other royal house, the Habsburgs had their greatest successes not on the battlefield, but in the bedroom.  They married their way to what at one point was the largest empire in the world, encompassing not only the majority of the German-speaking lands, but also the Lowlands, the Iberian peninsula, and the Spanish territories in North and South America, and Asia.  Quite a feat for a dynasty that had been chased out of their hereditary home and namesake 300 years earlier by pitchfork-wielding Swiss peasants.  The Habsburg story is more concerned with the issues of power than it is with warfare, which often went quite badly for them.<br />Given a unique and interesting subject, the author takes a somewhat non-traditional approach.  As he explains in the preface &quot;More and more I found that the Habsburgs expressed their sense of missions and their objectives obliquely, through a kind of code.&quot;   Wheatcroft attempts to show how the Habsburgs manipulated symbolism and other communication mechanisms to further their goals and to set themselves apart as the unquestionable lords of Central Europe.  I think the author is only partially successful in this, although I found nothing in his approach that seemed unreasonable.  Several of the author's explanations have been useful to me in interpreting symbolism that can still be seen today in Austria, such as the designation &quot;K.K&quot; and the gilded presence of the Order of the Golden Fleece on statues and paintings   (This was a chivalric order borrowed from the Burgundians when they didn't need it any longer giving the Habsburgs an opportunity to run their own good ole boys club.)<br />On the negative side, I found the book difficult to read.  While the subject matter certainly lends itself to confusion, dealing with an inbred family that unimaginatively  reused the same names over and over again, sometimes with different numbers in different contexts for the same ruler, perhaps the author could have used a more straightforward outline.  The book tends to spiral a bit, mixing up events taking place at different times in order to make a point about continuity and a repeating pattern of Habsburg behavior.  I finally dog-eared the family trees appearing in the Appendix so that I could flip back to them in an attempt to keep all the cousins, nieces, and nephews straight.  <br />This is not a traditional history.  While I don't feel that the author necessarily builds totally plausible case for his conception of the Habsburgs as being Europe's premier power of propaganda, I do think that he offers genuine and useful insight.  I question the execution more than the concept, which I think has some validity.	2001-04-01
US	52579911	R300LPLT24NCI1	0393318214	334835478	War by Other Means: Economic Espionage in America	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A good book in a subject area with mostly bad books	Since first popularized by Winn Schwartau, the concept of Information Warfare has tantalized and titillated.  It is a fascinating idea that the wars of an information society would be fought on a digital playing field.  Certainly the practice of economic espionage is not new.  Reduced political tensions worldwide means that cold warriors need something to do for a living, so today, it appears that resources that were formerly applied to defense-related targets are now being redeployed against American corporations.<br />Hitting so close to home, and being such a morbidly fascinating subject, it has tended to attract a lot of crank authors with populist approaches.  While Fialka doesn't really pull his punches, his approach is much more even-handed than many writers.  This well-researched and competently written book stands well above the junk being currently produced in this subject area.<br />Although this text is now over four years old, it is still relatively current.  For example, one who has read this book could not have been surprised at the amount of Federal attention paid to a nuclear physicist of Chinese extraction with strong ties to his native land, which has a long-standing pattern not only of economic espionage, but also of using and abusing non-professional spies.   The author also gives convincing evidence to support the consistent rumors that the French have a ongoing tradition of government-sponsored economic warfare against their 'allied' partners.   (As someone who has benefited from the character-building experience of a long-term relationship with a Peugeot, I remain convinced that although the French undoubtedly engage in economic espionage, Gallic pride prevents them from actually applying anything that they learn.)<br />This is an excellent text for helping build a mental picture of one particular class of Information Security threat.  Those involved in Infosec topics will also find value in the chapters &quot;Virtual Justice,&quot; which explains why corporations are so reluctant to report incidents of espionage, and &quot;Surviving&quot; which describes the lack of attention that corporations are willing to pay to security issues.  As someone who has been involved in the field for over ten years, I can attest that this attitude is pervasive, and that security failures do occur.  But without a greater willingness to report incidents to the authorities, the true statistics will never be known.<br />Given that virtually all large corporations are highly-vulnerable to attack, and given the author's supportable contention that both motivated and resourceful adversaries exist, it seems imprudent to write this book off as mere scare mongering.  Since the writing of this book, the problem has only worsened.	2001-04-01
US	52579911	R155R75VBJJKCN	0743411463	538304275	The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best choice for first book on Internet Security	&quot;The Cuckoo's Egg&quot; is one of my tests for evaluating someone's security awareness.  If they think this is a trivial book, I know that they have a narrow concept of information security.<br />There are two good reasons to read this book.  First, it is entertaining and engaging, recounted autobiographically by a gifted storyteller. Second, it is a classic case history of detection, intrusion response, traceback, and prosecution.    This book is one of the first documented reports-and a highly-detailed one-of hackers who use the Internet to jump from computer to computer.  Although the events took place in the mid-1980s, almost 10 years before consumer use of the Internet, the Internet's predecessor, ARPANet, existed, and was already a hacker's playground (at the time, I was managing a user support office that provided support to the users of one of the Pentagon DEC machines that was compromised).  Surprisingly little has changed since then, and hackers still use telnet to guess weak passwords, hack into systems, exploit weaknesses to gain root, and then rummage through e-mail looking for clues that can help them crack other systems.<br />One of the most important lessons of this book is that discrepancies usually have a cause.  It was through the investigation of a trivial system accounting error that Stoll first became aware that a member of his digital flock was harboring a wolf.  Although not a computer expert by training,  PHd astronomers (people who make their living by counting stars) are undoubtedly highly patient, stubborn and methodical-personality traits that were crucial to the author's success in the long weary months it took to finally track down the attack to its source.  On the way, Stoll created what is possibly the first publicly documented use of a 'honey pot' to lure his attacker back to his site so that he could both record his activities and allow the network authorities to trace him back to his European origin.<br />Although a variety of James Bond-like high tech attacks have been developed over the years since this volume was first published, the fact is that passwords are still the most commonly used form of information system authentication, and they are no stronger today than they were 15 years ago.  This book provides a great understanding of how attackers take advantage of weak passwords and unused accounts.  All system administrators and security professionals need a total grasp of these concepts in order to understand how the systems they are responsible for are at risk of very simple attack.  <br />Today, interest in Intrusion Detection Systems continues to grow.  Many of the attacks are much more sophisticated than those that are documented by Stoll.  But the basic paradigm of cops and robbers, an endless cycle of spy vs. spy, continues today, just as it did in the mid-80s, before 'THE Internet' was recognized as such.  I certainly do not want to discourage general readers-my relatively non-technical wife recently picked up my copy and finished it inside of a couple of days-but I do urge all burgeoning security experts to get a copy of this book early in their career, read it, and understand the many lessons that it contains.   <br />In spite of being written by an academic, this is a fun book, with a breezy casual style.  It is in no way a dry and dull scholarly tome.  And that is a positive to me, because most people are more motivated to complete a text when they don't actually dread picking it up.  No matter how accurate the information in a text book, if the reader falls asleep or tunes out, they won't acquire the knowledge within it.  Because &quot;Egg&quot; is such an easy book to read, it is an ideal introduction to security ideas including: attack process and hacking, intrusion detection, computer forensics,  infowar, hacker motivation,  electronic surveillance and traceback, auditing, social engineering, password usage, cross-border issues, prosecution of cybercrime, and the relationship with law enforcement.  It is such a gentle introduction to these concepts that you don't even realize that you are gaining a significant education.<br />In spite of this being over 10 years old (my copy has already started turning yellow), it is still a highly-relevant book today.  If you are interested in a career in Information Security, but do not appreciate what this book has to teach on the subject, I strongly recommend that you reevaluate your choice of profession.  You might not like Stoll's flip style, but if you cannot see that this non-specialist wrote 'the book' on intrusion response, then you need to seriously consider that you might also be missing some important Infosec concepts and understandings.	2001-04-01
US	52579911	R2FXIH61YOFOD2	0596001053	719579285	Database Nation : The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	I don't know what this book is supposed to be	I've enjoyed other books co-authored by Garfinkel, but I just don't know what to make of this one. <br />The Infosec world tends to be characterized by Chicken Littles who are able to attract attention by claiming that the sky is falling down.   This book is filled with sky falling down examples--some of which undoubtedly will come to pass.  But I don't believe that most of them will.  Just because something can go wrong, doesn't mean that it will, and this book is filled with wild speculation.<br />This book should really appeal to the paranoid and the conspiracy theorist, but I don't believe that it really provides much guidance in what is realistically going to take place.<br />It wasn't a bad read--the words are pleasantly arranged.  But most of the scenarios in this book are just not credible to me, and the research is non-existent.  Its an opinion piece, and I think most of the opinions are wrong.<br />Does not live up to its jacket cover.	2001-03-27
US	52579911	R31YRAB40PGREG	075069873X	876152775	Effective Physical Security, Second Edition	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Good introduction and reference to the subject	I'm not an expert in physical security--I like to think of myself in an expert in information security.  An understanding of physical security topics is essential for an Infosec consultant, but consultants and CISSP test candidates looking for information on this subject don't really know where to turn.  <br />This book was suggested to me by another CISSP and I found it useful.  The book, which is really a set of essays by multiple authors, including Fennelly, is split into three sections: Design, Equipment, and Operations.  It includes lengthy discussions of building construction, lighting and fencing, and far more about locks than I ever wanted to know.   Many checklists on several different subject areas are included, although not all of the checklist items are necessarily explained somewhere in the book.  Several very detailed glossaries are included, although they are unfortunately not listed in the table of contents or index.<br />The chapter &quot;Electronic Access Control and System Integration&quot; is good, but is lifted right out of another book I recommend, &quot;The Book on Access Control,&quot; by Konicek and Little.  The chapter &quot;Physical Access Control for Computer Areas,&quot; taken from John M. Carroll's computer security text is excellent.  I highly recommend the chapter &quot;Approaches to Physical Security&quot; by Gigliotti and Jason.  Infosec professionals will feel at home with the discussion of threat analysis, planning, cost justification, and layering.  Besides being a useful essay on physical security, there is a lot of value to the Infosec professional in learning how related disciplines approach similar problems. <br />Chapter 2, the author's 11-page essay on conducting security surveys, is not only a useful guide to that subject, but it also contains wise advice that should be helpful for a professional in any discipline: &quot;Only when you have developed the ability to visualize the potential for criminal activity will you become an effective crime scene surveyor.&quot;    Overall, the book seems pretty solid, so I'm putting it on my must-buy list for security practitioners.	2001-03-27
US	52579911	R20K5WJLJK4FIM	0596001053	719579285	Database Nation : The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	I don't know what this book is supposed to be	I've enjoyed other books co-authored by Garfinkel, but I just don't know what to make of this one. <br />The Infosec world tends to be characterized by Chicken Littles who are able to attract attention by claiming that the sky is falling down.   This book is filled with sky falling down examples--some of which undoubtedly will come to pass.  But I don't believe that most of them will.  Just because something can go wrong, doesn't mean that it will, and this book is filled with wild speculation.<br />This book should really appeal to the paranoid and the conspiracy theorist, but I don't believe that it really provides much guidance in what is realistically going to take place.<br />It wasn't a bad read--the words are pleasantly arranged.  But most of the scenarios in this book are just not credible to me, and the research is non-existent.  Its an opinion piece, and I think most of the opinions are wrong.<br />Does not live up to its jacket cover.	2001-03-27
US	52579911	R1ZECXXJ4TU2PX	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	3	103	125	N	N	Mildly interesting, but not remarkable	The book was interesting in several ways.  The author's central idea, that having a mature concept of risk management is a prerequisite for modern civilization, is intriguing, yet not fully substantiated by his book.  Having studied Finance in business school, it was interesting for me to learn a bit of the history behind contemporary thinking on financial risk management (in other words, he explains who figured out &amp; popularized the alpha/beta thing).<br />Towards the end of the book, he just began to touch on some of the non-rational behavioral aspects of humans, and I wish he had gone deeper.  Some of the most interesting work in economics is being done today with the radical assumption that human behavior is driven more by emotion than by reason.  Why do people make ill-conceived decisions about risk?  Not really answered in this book.<br />The book is almost totally oriented towards financial risk, and doesn't really look at other forms of risk management. Although the writing style is engaging--this is NOT dry--there are some structural problems.  The author wanders around a bit, and sometimes introduces ideas or personalities without ever explaining why.  <br />It is important to mention that this is treated as a 'story', from the historian's point of view, and not as a text book.  In this way, it is true to its title.  The book cover makes no claims for this as an intellectual or academic treatment of the subject, which makes this a very accessible book.  It isn't profound, and it is only mildly informative, but outside of the minor annoyances of some outline weakness, I enjoyed reading it.	2001-03-21
US	52579911	R98KO86WJJTO2	0792377028	743306132	Multilevel Secure Transaction Processing (THE KLUWER INTERNATIONAL SERIES ON ADVANCES IN DATABASE)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Obsolete and not interesting--not even for specialists	Multilevel Secure Transaction Processing:<br />The second paragraph on page 1 begins with the statement &quot;The primary purpose of a security mechanism is to control access to data.&quot;  This is a typical view of security from the perspective of technologists, but it is an unsophisticated understanding of security in today's wired world of e-commerce.  The defense-oriented experience of the authors is clear in this introduction.  The third paragraph includes the most obtuse introduction to Mandatory Access Control that I've ever read.  The distinction between DAC and MAC is a crucial concept towards understanding the limitations of DAC, which is what virtually all commercial products support, but unfortunately, this explanation would be incomprehensible to anyone who doesn't already understand the difference.<br />The subsequent section &quot;Why DAC is not enough&quot; is somewhat better, but it still misses one of the fundamental problems with DAC-that of authorized users explicitly making data available to people who aren't authorized to have it.  While MAC can indeed prevent the Trojan horse attacks described in this book from succeeding, it is misleading to give the impression that Trojan horses are the only way to defeat DAC.<br />The section on MLS architectures is short, but useful in understanding multi-tier e-commerce architectures.  Beyond that, the book becomes too technical for me, which is what I expected.  Given that the authors have such a narrow vision of the field of security-that of the military and intelligence agencies with unlimited budges and insanely sensitive data-it isn't surprising that they lack a useful perspective from a business point of view.<br />The era of Multi-Level Secure systems is pretty much over, having been so complex that even the intelligence agencies avoided them like the plague.  No commercial Unix vendors are currently selling an MLS platform, and if the database vendors mentioned in this book are still selling suchproducts, they certainly are being quiet about it.  MLS databases are basically a giant intellectual puzzle, and for those who are interested in this type of intellectual puzzle, there is some value here seeing obscure ways in which a complex system can inadvertently leak data, and clever work arounds to plug these theoretical holes.  In the early 90s, a great deal of research was being conducted in this area both in North America and Europe.  Today, there is virtually no work being done on this area (outside of the author's university), and it isn't the trendy place for PHd candidates in Computer Science to make their reputation.   <br />This book is of some value to those who are deep into the functioning of highly-secure software (although I could suggest some other areas of research that would be of greater use to humanity).  It is of no benefit to the casual reader, or even the CISSP candidate.  If you are just looking to learn about the concept of multi-level security, which is an important concept for the security professional to understand, a more cogent explanation can be found in the still-useful text &quot;Computer Security Basics&quot; by Deborah Russell, and G. T. Gangemi.<br />This book is at least 9 years too late.	2001-03-21
US	52579911	RC5YWY7HMJLJ9	0375410848	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A great read that should become a classic	Markus wanted to make a lunchtime field trip to Zürich's English language bookstore to buy copies of &quot;Who Stole My Cheese&quot; for some skiing buddies.  I replied that I'd just read a review in the &quot;Herald-Tribune&quot; by one of my favorite reviewers, Michel Dirda, and was already thinking about going.  We reached the store to find both the book and a petite blond standing next to it.  Like us, she was also dressed for late Swiss winter in trench coat and hat.  &quot;Markus, here's the book I was looking for,&quot; I said.  &quot;What's it about?&quot;  &quot;Well, it's sort of an 'Australian Western.'  It's meant to be the autobiographical account of Australia's most infamous frontier gangster- a kind of Robin Hood character in the popular imagination.&quot;  &quot;Is it good?&quot; he asked.  &quot;Well, Dirda says that it actually was very popular in Australia, having been written by their most prominent living author.  He liked it, and on the strength of his review, I came looking to buy it.&quot;  <br />At this point, to make a longer story very short, we exchanged words with the woman in the trench coat, whom we quickly accepted as an authority on both the popularity and literary merit of the novel, as soon as we discovered that she actually was from Australia.  She allowed as how it was a very well written book and resonated with the Australian reader, but those who didn't speak English as a native language might have difficulty with the dialect.<br />The protagonist of this pseudo autobiography, Ned Kelly, came from a family of Irish immigrants in Australia, growing up in the outback in the late 1800s.  He has a reputation as being one of Australia's most notorious outlaws, having robbed banks, been charged with murder, and dying in a famous shootout.  On the flip side, he's quite the folk hero in Australia also, revered as a symbol of rebellion, Australian self-determination, and the champion of the disadvantaged.   I don't think I'm giving much away by revealing that this book chooses the latter conception-to the Nth degree.  Many readers who would not initially be sympathetic to a law-breaker like Kelly will be sorry to see him go by the end of the book, viewing him as a noble character who was the victim of circumstance.  This, perhaps, is one of the characteristics of this book that makes it a masterpiece, because the author not only transports you to another place and time, but can totally change your perspective on a fundamental issue such as law and order.<br />The other significant aspect of the book is that evocation of an earlier time and setting, telling the story from the view of Ned Kelly himself, in language and style that if  not actually true to the original Ned Kelly, may as well have been.   Carey masterfully builds a sense of the Victorian-era Outback in a way that practically has you smelling the dust and the manure.  You feel both the landscape and the oppressive boot of the English authorities on the neck of the unfortunate Irish.<br />If you wish, you may categorize this book as a sort of Australian/Western Romance Adventure.  But I think it is a deeper work than that.  Certainly it is an exciting read-I had difficulty putting it down.  Do not avoid this book just because I used the word 'masterpiece'.  But I do believe that is already a contemporary classic that will be read and enjoyed and discussed for years to come.	2001-03-21
US	52579911	R2FBIZZ7ZP66N1	0385055498	264802407	The Silent Language (Anchor Books)	Books	4	86	86	N	N	Another winner from Hall, but maybe not his best	If you only read one Edward Hall book, I think that &quot;Beyond Culture&quot; is a better read, and more lucid.  Although the two texts overlap somewhat, there are many concepts in this book that do not appear in the other (the idea of &quot;High Context&quot; vs &quot;Low Context&quot; cultures is only hinted at in this text).<br />The basic concept of &quot;Silent Language&quot; is that much of our communication is non-verbal, but  that it consistently follows cultural and linguistic patterns, just as spoken and written communication does.  The major difference in non-verbal communication is that it is mostly subconscious.<br />The book revolves around the idea that all cultural conventions can be classified as either formal, informal,  or technical.  Although he spends an entire chapter introducing this concept, I personally found the distinctions a bit confusing, although I do believe that the author has an important insight.  <br />One of my favorite concepts was the idea of 'spacial accent,' which describes the size of and culturally-specific behaviors associated with that invisible zone we all carry around with us.  This concept helps explain why Europeans (outside of the British) generally don't queue, and why this so aggravates Americans (and presumably Brits). The concept of 'order' also helps explain different behaviors in forming lines (American belief in 'first come, first serve, is culturally relative).  Besides speaking about space, he also discusses the cultural aspects of time, which he also describes in terms of an 'accent'.  (He deals with both space and time more fully in two of his other books.)<br />Hall makes quite a number of connections between cultural behavior, these three types of cultural convention, and specific forms of expression.   Examples include: --Why scientists are terrible writers (one of several digressions away from non-verbal communications) --A very believable explanation of why art is art --Why long-range planning is rarein America<br />--A concept of sacred place that anticipates the recent idea that men retreat to personal 'caves'<br />All in all, I found this an enjoyable and enlightening book.  I wish that it could have been more clear in spots, and I think it is fair to say that some of his ideas are more fully worked out in some of his other books.  My only real complaint is about the quality of Anchor's reproduction, which uses a cheap paper that cannot withstand normal highlighters at all (try the wax Textliners from Faber-Castell).	2001-03-12
US	52579911	R14AD5336WCFPT	0684856212	21714705	Burn Rate: How I Survived the Gold Rush Years on the Internet	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Enjoyable book that is consistent with my experience	This is not only a great read, but it is totally consistent with my experiences working for 4 pre-IPO high-tech firms.  There is something surreal about the world of the startup and the money that chases it.  I've worked for several ex-finance types who cynically thought that they could profit from the stupidity of others (cluelessness is as cluelessness does).  They could have come right out of the pages of this book.<br />Wolff portrays this world as sort of an elaborate Ponzi scheme, with the backers looking to unload their startups before anybody discovers that they are worthless (by 'they', I think I'm referring to the firms).   That's consistent with what I've seen.  Wolff also describes the strange vampire community of PR firms, sales people, executives, lawyers, accountants, bankers and others who specialize in feeding off of naïve entrepreneurs.  That's consistent with what some of the startup parasites I've encountered, all looking to get a piece of that easy money.  After all, it isn't the entrepreneur's own money, so it is no wonder they spend like there's no tomorrow.   (Like Machinist, I also check out the cars in the parking lot as a guide to how profligate the execs are.)<br />The history of the Internet, and some of the seminal events that took place in the 1990s, and the description of how the VC game works are very accurately portrayed.  Besides serving as an introduction to the experiences that a startup undergoes, this book is a useful guide to the recent history of technology, but it is hardly a dry academic tone.  In spite of dabbling as a CEO, the author is primarily a professional writer.  He knows how to tell a story, and he does a good job of it.  This is an autobiography written by a pro who has had significant experiences in an area of interest, so it should be no surprise that this is a compelling book.<br />I enjoyed reading it very much.  It is both informative and entertaining, providing an important personal account of some of themost interesting years in recent business history.  It is comparable to Bronson's &quot;Nudist on the Late Shift,&quot; but in this case, the author actually had the opportunity to view the craziness from the inside, instead of being a detached external observer.  I hope I'm not giving away the ending by saying that although the author flirted with Satan for several years, he apparently emerged with his soul intact.  ;-)	2001-02-25
US	52579911	RVHE2PO3EKPIG	3952000213	228214140	Ticking Along Too: Stories about Switzerland	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Not as enjoyable as the first volume	I did not find the essays in this book as compelling as the ones in &quot;Ticking Along with the Swiss.&quot;  I'm not sure if that is because these are truly not as interesting, or because I've had my fill of anecdotes about Swiss culture.   It took me several months to finish this book, reading a couple of essays a week.<br />If you enjoy the first volume, and really want more, well, this book has more---of the same.   It does have a couple of real gems tucked away towards the back.	2001-02-11
US	52579911	R24XDG8OVHEF2Y	0750698969	489935569	The Information Systems Security Officer's Guide: Establishing and Managing an Information Protection Program	Books	3	31	31	N	N	Must have for ISSOs or ISSO wannabees	This book is the Boy Scout Senior Patrol Leader's handbook for Information Security Officers.  &quot; On my honor, I will do my best, to do my duty, to my corporation and profession....&quot;    It is a short book-I read it in an evening-that tries to be a complete guide to a very complex profession.  Following this merit badge guidebook approach, the entire subject of risk is covered in 3 pages, and CP/DR is covered in just over 2.  It just doesn't contain enough text to be the sole reference book for any single aspect of the job, but it does have some useful information that I'm not aware of in any other text.  It is process and organizationally organized, and does not deal with technology at all.  <br />My favorite chapter is the second one, &quot;Understanding the Business and Management Environment.&quot;  With a background in social science and significant experience in multi-cultural situations, the author is uniquely qualified to help an information security practitioner operate effectively within what is essentially an alien culture.  <br />A question that I'm frequently asked, and I see often in infosec forums, is &quot;What do I do to get into the security business?&quot;  Chapter 4 provides excellent advice on creating a career path, followed by Chapter 5 which contains suggestions on finding a new job.  I recommend these chapters to anyone who is looking to break into this field, or who wants to advance their career.  <br />If you have managed to find yourself a leadership role in infosec, and are wondering what you should do next, the chapter on creating security plans should be helpful.  The chapter on establishing an infosec program is also helpful, and contains some excellent job descriptions for different infosec positions.   This is hardly stimulating reading, but if you are an ISSO, your choice is to find usable boilerplate like this, or make it up yourself.   <br />The author approaches the subject from a single point of view.  All of the examples are drawn around a single hypothetical corporation, and it is obvious that the author has a law enforcement orientation.  An infocop approach like this is not necessarily successful within every corporate culture, nor does everyone who is responsible for an information security program think of their role in corporate criminal justice terms.  <br />I do think that anyone running an information security program would benefit from this book-or anyone who wants to work towards such a position.  If you like org charts and job descriptions, you'll probably feel comfortable with it.  For those who are not ISSOs, or those who just looking for an introductory guide to security, this is not the ideal text.  For those who are ISSOs, or otherwise responsible for infosec programs, Thomas Wradlow's book, &quot;The Process of Network Security,&quot; is a meatier and more sophisticated book that covers much of the same subject matter at a lower price.  I recommend that anyone responsible for creating or implementing infosec programs get both books.	2001-02-11
US	52579911	R3RFOZ2IYWV5MB	068486729X	542492386	One Good Turn: A Natural History of the Screwdriver and the Screw	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Enjoyable essay, but not a lengthy industrial history	Not everybody appreciates essays, and that is fine.  If you just want a very dry and clinical historical study of a ubiquitous pair of artifacts, then you'll be disappointed.  This is a reader's book, written for literate people who enjoy reading for the sake of reading. From that point of view, it's an elegant little work. It is similar to &quot;Catapult: Harry and I Build a Seige Weapon,&quot; which I also reviewed, in that the journey is as much a part of the story as the purported subject.   Why did the author choose this subject, how did he research it, what were his stumbling blocks and triumphs, and what was he experiencing about the project.  It is almost a meta-essay, in that it is an essay about writing an essay.<br />Rest assured that it does cover the history of screws and drivers fairly comprehensively--it even explains the origin of those squareheads that you can get from McFeeley's.  I was positive that those were the same things that the trailer manufacturers were using back in the 70s (just to 'broach' the subject).  Now I know for certain.  I had no idea that the Canadians had been using them throughout the 20th century.   <br />One of the interesting discoveries of the author is that very little scholarship has been performed in this area, so some of his findings probably represent original work.  <br />I'm always interested in where things came from, and even more so in WHY they came.  Rybczynski gives some reasonable explanations for possible first uses of screws--both as fasteners and as transportation devices.  He also discusses the most relevant technology--thread cutting, including pictures of some early thread cutters and he highlights the development of standardized threads and automated thread cutting lathes.  (Just before receiving this book as a Christmas present, I had seen a working model of DaVinci's screw-cutting machine at an exhibit in the Zürich Landesmuseum--this device is depicted in Rybczynski 's book and looks just like themodel.)<br />It is a very short book, and it is an unusual approach to a technical history that is apparently a turn-off to some people.  I enjoyed it.  I think if you enjoyed the catapult book, Kurlansky's treatise on cod, or are a fan of John McPhee that you will find this book a worthwhile read.  Witold Rybczynski uses a totally different style than the dry and thorough analysis of Petroski (see my review of &quot;The Pencil : A History of Design and Circumstance&quot;).	2001-01-25
US	52579911	R2R18VJ3IKV2OM	0786862106	946544564	Takedown: The Pursuit and Capture of Kevin Mitnick by the Man Who Did It	Books	3	46	50	N	N	Recommended, but with reservations	It's a breezy read, which is pretty amazing, given the number of obscure details that Shimomura feels compelled to share, such as his lunch menu.   Still, when you team up an experienced author with a brilliant subject matter expert, it shouldn't be a surprise that the result is something which demands attention.<br />The definitive story of Kevin Mitnick has still not been told--this is an interesting story, but it is hardly conclusive.  Furthermore, given the author's attitude--he's got an ego a mile wide--it's difficult to accept everything in this book at face value.  Certainly, Shimomura and Markoff had every incentive during their journey to work towards creating an exciting story.  A critical reader must consider the possibility that they manipulated events in order to increase sales of their expected book.  It is certainly possible that this did not happen, but how can you know?<br />A greater understanding of what Mitnick represents is important in developing an ability to think in useful information security ways.  He's become such a cultural icon--a criminal genious in the eyes of one side, and a victimized innocent on the other.  Neither of these simplistic views is accurate.  I believe that Mitnick probably is a genius, but not in technical terms.  He's truly one America's great con-men, and his story teaches us a great deal about how gullible normal people can be, and how easy it is for a smooth-talker with selfish motivations to manipulate normal people.  There are a lot of lessons to be learned from a study of Mitnick, although the writers of this text provide minimal assistance in helping the reader draw useful conclusions about the story.  They are much more concerned with showing how incredibly clever Shimomura is, purportedly tracking Mitnick from ISP to ISP across the Internet, and eventually right to his doorstep with a junior G-man RDF unit.<br />A Mitnick story that I believe is much more balanced is Jonathan Littman's book, &quot;The Fugitive Game : Online With Kevin Mitnick,&quot; which is unfortunately out of print.  While Littman's personal relationship with Mitnick--Mitnick apparently just likes him--also should be a datapoint in your evaluation of what actually happened, I think he takes care to make any potential bias clear, and to avoid it. <br />Littman raises some interesting questions about Shimomura.  I summarize my feelings about the purported Mitnick attack on Shimomura like this:   1) Shimomura makes it widely known that he has software on his Internet server that is of interest to hackers.  2) He leaves an incredibly obvious security hole open on his Unix server that any Unix newbie would have known to plug.  3) He sends the syslog (system logging) data to another host, which just so happens to be REALLY TIGHT.  If he's capable of capturing syslog records in such a secure and non-compromisable way, why did he leave r-services running on the server with the source code?   We will probably never know if he actually created a honeypot with the intention of entrapping Mitnick and writing a book about it, but what he did was fully consistent with such a plan.  Fascinating, huh?   I guess you'll need to read the book to make up your own mind, but if that is what really happened, how do you feel about subsidizing it through reading the book?<br />We'll also never know if Mitnick was really the one who hacked into Shimomura's Sun box using a technique that was previously considered theoretical.  Somebody did, and Mitnick certainly was aware of it, but I personally don't believe that Mitnick is technically capable of writing such hack code himself, and I'm not sure that he was the one to perform the exploit.  The best description I know of this exploit is found in Stephen Northcutt's book, &quot;Network Intrusion Detection.&quot;<br />So it is an important story that can help you develop a better understanding of Internet security, and both security experts and non-specialists could benefit fromhaving a realistic view of the significance of Mitnick.  For the time being, this is the most detailed book available, and as an autobiographical account of one the participants in Mitnick's takedown, the book will always have a certain historical significance.    But be an especially critical reader with this one.  Think through the motivations of the authors, and consider the possibility that Mitnick is a genius at social engineering, but only an average technician.  If that's the case, then what really did happen?  Read Shimomura's account, and make up your own mind.	2001-01-22
US	52579911	R95I7IBW4PM1K	0670859508	909606724	Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government--Saving Privacy in the Digital Age	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Compelling story should be of interest to all 'net users	Levy is one of my favorite essayists.  He finds a compelling story, researches it exhaustively, and then shares his excitement.   The history of Internet cryptography is a perfect subject for Levy, who delights in recounting stories about technoradicals with new ideas who see them through to fruition.<br />Encryption truly is one of the most critical technologies necessary for a smoothly functioning virtual world, and is very much the case that the U.S. Federal Government successfully delayed the general availability of strong encryption for at least a decade.  (Future economists may point back to the last two decades of the 20th century and show how this failed government policy was responsible for the loss of U.S. dominance in the high-tech market.)<br />It would have been easy to take the politically correct road and portray the Feds as being evil conspirators, bent on maintaining their own power and pride at the expense of the entire world.  Levy chooses a more balanced approach, depicting the NSA in nearly heroic terms.  He is especially sympathetic towards Clint Brooks (a name I did not know), an NSA lifer who developed the key escrow concept as a compromise that would allow widespread public utilization of strong encryption while still allowing law enforcement (and of course, intelligence agencies), the ability to intercept communications under controlled circumstances.  If both the NSA and their philosophical opponents are heroes with noble goals, a tragic ending is inevitable, which adds an element of pathos to this triumph of democracy.<br />As a former software vendor, I've been totally frustrated by both the crypto export laws and by the NSA attitude of \\"If you only knew what we knew, you wouldn't even ask that question.\\"  That argument turned out to be just as specious now as everyone thought it was at the time, but the marvelous aspect of this book is that Levy is able to make a cynic like me accept that the people within the Puzzle Palace have legitimate motivations.  (He is much harsher on the FBI, and creates an especially unflattering portrayal of Louie Freeh).  It's a well-balanced approach to a very contentious subject, which adds considerably to the author's credibility.<br />Personalities loom large in a history like this one, and Levy is a master at drawing them out of their personal shells and detailing aspects of their private lives to explain their motivations and feelings.   Whitfield Diffie is the old master who had the vision to conceive of a new model for encryption that would meet the unprecedented needs of a network society.  Ron Rivest was the energy behind the development of the most significant public key algorithm, created by an unlikely trio of inventors. Jim Bidzos was a young playboy who found the commercialization of the RSA technology to be the challenge he needed in his hitherto shallow life of world travel, hot cars and fast women.  Like Diffie, Phil Zimmerman marches to a drummer that only he can hear, yet this amateur programmer succeeded in popularizing strong encryption long before RSA and its millions in venture cap money did.  Given his ten years of personal research and interviews of the people he chronicles, Levy's will probably be the definitive written account on many of these quirky visionaries.<br />The book is a quick read, but a good one.   Technically, it is very accurate, with one unfortunate mistake on page 178 where it reads \\"Then he uses the hash function to recreate Alice's message from the digest...\\"  Hash functions are 1-way functions, and cannot be reversed.  If it read instead, \\"Then he uses the hash function to recreate Alice's message digest...\\" it would be more accurate.  In order to verify a digital signature, the encrypted hash value provided by the sender is decrypted by their public key, which is then compared to another hash value generated by the verifying party (see p. 38 of \\"Applied Cryptography, 2nd Edition\\" by Bruce Schneier).  Other than this confusion over how digital signatures are verified, the book does an excellent job of presenting the concepts of public key encryption to a non-technical reader.  Besides being an enjoyable tale of business and technology history, this book could also be considered an executive-level introduction to the need for encryption on the Internet and the ways in which modern implementations provide it.  <br />If you want to know what is happening when that little lock icon at the bottom of your web browser closes, you'll find a conceptual answer in this book.  You'll not only learn the sequence of events that led to the development of SSL, but you'll also read the history of the first successful attempt to crack SSL security, and its significance to you as a customer of sites like Amazon.  \\"Crypto\\" should appeal not only to those who are interested in the history of technology, but anyone wanting to understand more about the history and personal and commercial use of encryption on the Internet.  Anyone involved in an e-commerce project or with an interest in information security would find this an interesting and accessible book.   It is not a technology book per se, but I think most technically-oriented people will enjoy reading about how people like them had the drive and vision to change the world-especially when the odds were so heavily stacked against them.  <br />This is a compelling and important story that needs to be told and understood.  Levy is neither the first to undertake this telling, and undoubtedly won't be the last, but I'm convinced that this will become a classic of technology history-even more so than his earlier books.  His thoroughness, extensive research, and evenhanded approach will make this book an important source for future researchers.	2001-01-21
US	52579911	RNON7GV64BSZI	0719043263	851499770	Beginning Theory: An Introduction to Literary and Cultural Theory (Beginnings)	Books	5	84	89	N	N	A guided tour by an experienced and entertaining teacher	This is not some dry academic tome, but is an approachable work with a fresh style. Although I read this outside of the classroom, and both enjoyed and benefited from it, as an experienced instructor, Peter Barry is actually providing a textbook .  Each theory includes a 'Stop and Think' section that contains questions which zero in on its essential aspects or weaknesses.  Major theorists are discussed and they are placed into a historical and cultural context. Each theory has a concise list of bullet points on what critics of that school actually do, or how they interpret literary works.  The chapters conclude with lists of recommended readings, including annotations on their significance and how best to read or approach them.<br />He does a marvelous job of placing literary theory into a context as the most recent series of attempts to answer questions that have been ongoing at least since Victorian times.  The introduction is perhaps the most important part of the book.  While someone highly familiar with a particular theory may wish to skip the corresponding chapter, I recommend reading the first chapter.  It has helpful advice on critical reading skills, and especially useful suggestions on how to effectively approach a new theory.  The second chapter, &quot;Liberal Humanism,&quot; is basically a discussion of what critics do who do not partake of a particular theory, which is the historical background against which the theorists are reacting.  This chapter is also essential reading, as it concludes with a discussion of recurrent ideas that are common across most literary theories.  He sums them up as 1) politics is pervasive, 2) language is constitutive, 3) truth is provisional, 4) meaning is contingent, and 5) human nature is a myth.  He suggests that any reader having difficulty grasping a particular theory review this list, as most theory concepts turn out to be some variation of one of these ideas.<br />My feelings about literary theory are complex and ambivalent.  It certainly seems like a tailor-made job security program for uninspired academics (especially Deconstruction).  Choosing a career with constant pressure to publish or perish, the appeal of a discipline that accepts completely fanciful interpretations of other's works as legitimate research is undeniable.  Even worse, theory is often used to promulgate social and political agenda under the guise of  scholarship.  In spite of these negative tendencies, several literary theories actually make a certain sense to me, and each of them offers useful insights when carefully applied and not treated as a religious or moral imperative.  I encourage the skeptic to read this book also-one doesn't need to accept the validity of each theory in order to benefit from their recognition<br />The subtitle of &quot;Beginning Theory&quot; includes the words &quot;literary and cultural theory.&quot;  While Barry concentrates on the literary aspects, the theories he presents are certainly widely applied in much contemporary writing.  A level of cultural literacy necessary to fully appreciate the Book Review supplement of major newspapers requires at least nodding familiarity with their concepts and major proponents.  The popular understanding of many of the 'isms' of our day, such as 'racism', 'sexism', 'colonialism',  certainly have philosophical roots in Marxist criticism.   Post-modern critical ideas are widely applied in cultural situations, and like a dead fish, Freudian interpretation always seems to be floating on top of the water.  The philosophical and social ideas influenced by these theories are widespread, and are certainly not limited to obscure academic journals on literary criticism-I've concluded that whether I agree with the ideas or not, they are part of an essential cultural vocabulary.  (Undoubtedly, the proponents of any particular theory are much harsher on competing theories than any of the readers of this book will be.)<br />Given my morbid fascination with literary theory, perhaps it isn't surprising that I found this an exciting book.  Barry has written what is effectively the Guide Michelin for literary theory.   This is an excellent starting point for a difficult topic, and the author's lucid discussion of complex ideas is brilliant.  Although his personal opinions occasionally appear in the form of his wry wit, his playful approach to competing theories is relatively open-minded, helping the reader discover both their advantages and internal inconsistencies.  <br />This book is well-written, informative, and an excellent resource.  I highly recommend it.	2001-01-01
US	52579911	R2P02WP326VO2S	061803580X	10766222	The Best American Essays 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	21 different flavors in one book	Essays are a bit like wine: the amount of material consumed is small, the taste can be extraordinarily intense, and the effect often lingers long afterwards.  Essays can be bubbly and bright, like Champagne, or dark and moody like a Shiraz.  An anthology like this book is something of a wine tasting, prepared by an experienced sommolier.<br />Alan Lightman, the editor of this year's volume, is apparently one who practices what he preaches, beginning his introduction with a lively essay about his family's Year 2000 new year's eve celebration.  Just as I was thinking to myself that it was as if I had actually attended that party, he abruptly ends that story to explain the philosophy of choice that guided him in selecting the 21 essays appearing in this book, writing &quot;The qualities I treasure most about these essays are their authenticity and life.  In reading an essay, I want to feel that I'm communing with a real person...&quot;  <br />I doubt if anyone will find the taste of each of these essays immediately pleasing.  Is it the point of such a sampling to be consistently pleasurable to every reader?  I think not.  Lightman has carefully chosen for his readers a wide selection of wines, including multiple varieties from several regions, and I had not tasted all of these wines before.  Some were exquisite to me, evoking memories that I had not visited for many years, but not all were necessarily pleasing to my palate.  Yet each is a sophisticated wine, with complex aftertastes; well-crafted by experienced vintners.  You will never know what you like if you don't try new things.<br />Perhaps some potential readers would appreciate  a few more practical details about the content of the book.  There are several common themes woven through this collection.  Three of the essays deal with the subject of travel--specifically with the cities of New York, Paris, and Rome.  The subject of death and chronic medical problems appears several times, as does the related subjectof family and its influence on the outlook of the essayists.  I found two of the early essays comfortably curmudgeonly, addressing the subjects of misplaced victimhood and single-issue politics.  An essay on the nature of hate by Andrew Sullivan resonated with ideas that I've been wrestling with for years.  Singer's solution to world poverty should be disturbing to the conscience of just about any reader.   Although several of the writers deal with spiritual themes, from my Christian perspective, the religious sentiments are somewhat superficial.  <br />This is a diverse group of well-written essays, chosen as much for their ability to stimulate as for their reading pleasure.   A desire to agree with the agendas of each author before reading would miss the point of such book.	2001-01-01
US	52579911	R36027Q42RRKGT	0884154653	882457426	Managing Cultural Differences, Fourth Edition	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Important and helpful information, mediocre execution	Professor Moran's class at the American Gaduate School of International Management is one of the more memorable experiences at that unique multinational training institution.  While the school draws students from throughout the world, as an American, I feel justified in admitting that those who grow up in the United States are generally poorly prepared for cross-cultural relationships.  Although the lessons I learned in that course have held me in good stead throughout my career and personal life, parts of it were a struggle.  So is it with the latest edition of the course's text book.<br />A clue to this can be found on the title page which, in place of an editor, lists an &quot;Editorial Coordinator.&quot;  This book could benefit from some serious editorial rigor.  It is marred by many typos, including such unfortunate ones as, &quot;the Qur'an, the scared book of Muslims.&quot;  Virtually every page has a totally useless pullout, quoting some profound phrase from that page.  Selectively used, pullouts are supposed to increase the reader's interest in the material, but when it is carried to this extreme, it just wastes margin space that could otherwise be used for jotting down notes.  One short but deadly paragraph manages to use the buzzwords 'empowered,' 'actualize, 'synergy,' and 'connect', which a good editor would have surgically removed.  In spite of these execution flaws, I do feel that the book has merit, and recommend it for those who are interested in being more effective in cross-cultural situations.<br />The book is divided into three units.  Curiously enough, the first two units both have the same title, &quot;Cultural Impacts on Global Management.&quot;  The first cultural impacts unit begins with an introduction building the case for greater cross-cultural skills on the part of managers.  It concentrates on the particular problems that American managers have working outside of their culture.  The chapter on communications starts getting into some real meat, introducing concepts such as communication context.  Anthropologist Edward Hall's illuminating concept of high -- context vs. low -- context communications is described here, and used throughout the book.  (This concept was particularly significant to me, and I have also reviewed Hall's book, &quot;Beyond Culture,&quot; on Amazon.) The chapter continues with descriptions of important communication conventions that differ between cultures, and concludes with a set of practical guidelines on how best to make yourself understood when speaking with people whose native language is not your own. The unit continues with some management cultural ideas that are not necessarily limited to multi-ethnic situations, but are applicable to any large organization.  This was interesting to me, although it is oriented specifically towards managers who have direct reports.<br />The second cultural impacts unit begins with a section on common characteristics that typically vary from culture to culture, such as appearance, food, sense of self, beliefs, and time of consciousness.  The concepts discussed here are applied in the final section of book, so this provides important background information.  The unit includes a section on culture shock, and re-entry shock, which should be mandatory reading for all overseas assignees and their managers.  I found a checklist of desirable characteristics for foreign employment candidates especially useful, and several of the expatriates I work with agreed that it was consistent with what they had observed.  This is followed by a very nuts and bolts section on preparing people for international assignments.  The next chapter is entitled &quot;Managing Diversity in the Global Work Culture.&quot;  I have to say that I found the book to have a persistent politically correct theme, and I'm not sure that it is necessary to constantly harp on the value of diversity.  This was a very popular HR activity at the time this book was written, but I found it distracting.  <br />The final unit, which at 200 pages amounts to one-half of the book, is entitled &quot;Culture Specifics and Business/Service Abroad.&quot;  Choosing several representative cultures in each continent, it provides detailed discussions on their unique characteristics, along with helpful tips on dealing with people within that culture.  This is similar to those books you may have read on &quot;how to deal with X,&quot; but unlike those books, it is built on a strong foundation of sociological, anthropological, and organizational behavior disciplines that are introduced in the first two units.<br />Interestingly, the first chapter is on doing business with North Americans, which through self reflection, can help American readers better understand what it is like to look at a culture from the outside.  I'm sure the chapter would also be helpful to non-American readers, but the book is generally aimed at North Americans.  While constantly pointing out how important it is to avoid generalizations, each one of the individual cultural studies contains information on the people within those cultures that could be considered just that.  One of the balances that I was never able to manage in professor Moran's class, was maintaining a safe distance between sensitivity and prejudice.  Attempting to apply these lessons over 15 years, I've learned that cultural sensitivity can help you understand why someone acts in a particular way, and it can also help you anticipate their feelings or reactions, allowing you to better connect with them.  The trick is in avoiding either value judgments, or in assuming that cultural guidelines will always be predictive.  This helps explain why it is difficult in a book like this to highlight cultural characteristics that may be considered negative.  Continuing their politically correct agenda, the authors identify several cultures as being &quot;hard working.&quot;  No culture was identified as being lazy, so presumably everyone is above average.  A difficult balance, but a necessary one.<br />Such a whirlwind tour really obviously can't do justice to an entire world. It isn't meant to cover the entire world--it is meant to help you apply the lessons in the book yourself, and it succeeds. Although the treatment of various cultures is somewhat uneven, I did find this a very useful and helpful unit, and I will keep if for reference.  I do think there are many flaws in this book, and I don't find it particularly easy to read, but in spite of that, I strongly recommend it for everyone who finds themselves in a multi-cultural situation.  If you will be dealing with a multi-cultural environment, I recommend reading this book first, and then finding several books on the specific culture you will be exposed to.  I highly recommend also finding the time to read Edward Hall.  He's entertaining and enlightening.	2000-12-19
US	52579911	R32UWFJJLX3S9K	1928873081	893019457	A Short Course in Nikon Coolpix 990 Photography	Books	4	44	46	N	Y	Good for beginners, better than nothing for others	A Short Course in Coolpix 990 Photography<br />I have to admit that when I first thumbed through this skinny book, I was a bit disappointed.  It covers a lot of basic photography concepts, like depth of field, that I didn't really feel the need to go over.  It seemed like a real beginner's book.  But, once I started reading it, I found it to be extremely well written and informative.<br />The author has a gift for explaining technical concepts very clearly and concisely.  This is a very information dense book, and a clever beginner might not need any other books.  Every concept is precisely explained and illustrated through photographic examples or diagrams.  It is a beginner's book, but swallowing my pride, I have to admit that it has been a good review for me.<br />More important for my needs, after using a 990 for 2 months, and then reading this, it has helped clear up several confusing areas in camera operation, and brought several features to my attention that I hadn't noticed when I first read Nikon's manual.  A typical gem of knowledge is the explanation that the brightness control, unlike exposure compensation, adjusts midtones, which can save detail in shadow or highlights.  I wouldn't have known if I didn't have this book.<br />Complete beginners should probably read a lengthier generic book on photography, but I never expect any single book to suffice for learning a new discipline.  This would be a very good second book on photography, reinforcing the lessons from the first book with specific instructions on how to apply those lessons on this camera.  Experienced photographers will probably wish for a more detailed and in-depth book.  I do, but there doesn't seem to be one available.  Given that this is the only supplemental book on the Nikon 990 , I think it is worth the money.	2000-12-17
US	52579911	R3QNHMZJ5ZY65A	0521357047	247870493	Variation in German: A Critical Approach to German Sociolinguistics	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A bit on the dry side, but informative	In a relatively small geographic area, the German-speaking areas demonstrate an amount of linguistic diversity that is well outside of the experience of English speakers growing up in America.  This lingual variety fascinates me, and I found the book not only helped explain how the current state was reached, but also provided some ideas on how it might continue to evolve.  <br />The historical background chapter  satisfied my curiosity about German origins, but also explained why Norwegian has so many Tysk cognates.  Dialectology is not an area that I had explored before, such as  the concept of 'isoglosses', which are geographical boundaries separating regions with different speech characteristics.  Apparently the patterns for rolling the 'r', with the front trill being replaced by a back of the throat sound, are spreading simultaneously across multiple languages.  The isogloss chart for these shows how this characteristic tends to be separated on a north south basis both in the French and German speaking regions.  (If you are concerned that my lay explanation isn't technical enough, rest assured that this book also uses terminology such as 'voiceless lenis obstruents'-there should be no worry that college students will be ruined by reading a book that is too easy.)<br />The authors also wrote on urban speech patterns, a subject area they feel has been inadequately addressed by studies of German, and on class differences.  I continue to be mesmerized by Swiss diglossia, and I appreciated a chart mapping out the Swiss pattern of dialect and Hochdeutsch use according to social context. (Incidentally, class differences in Swiss German are minimal in comparison to Austria and Germany.)<br />Switzerland, Italy, France, Luxemburg, and Belgium all have transition areas where German rubs against one or more languages, and the result of this is different in each area.  The authors analyze the linguistic changes ongoing in these border regions, including the northern parts of Germany, where Danish and Frisian are disappearing.<br />Each chapter ends with a 'Further Reading' section that recommends classic and other relevant texts. The book concludes with a short glossary, containing both English and German terminology, and a lengthy bibliography of both German and English sources.<br />Certainly this book is most appealing to those who are interested specifically in the German language.  However, outside of a one short section, a knowledge of German is not expected, nor is a background in either linguistics or sociology.  I expect most of the readers to be German-speakers, but the book would also be useful to those who are just interested in the social issues of language, or are doing research in the subject.  <br />Instead of doing a broad-brush introduction to Socio-Linguistics, the authors chose to introduce the concept by focusing on a single language, an approach that I found very successful and accessible.	2000-12-15
US	52579911	R2E6J155W52E2X	0451452011	915129613	Red Dwarf: Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Great comic adventure tale	No sense ruining a good story by telling you how it turns out.  Better to describe it, so you can tell whether or not it fits your tastes.  <br />This is a hilarious, laugh-out-loud sort of book, appealing to the same tastes as the &quot;Mash&quot; series does, but in a dry, British sort of way.  It's written in a deadpan, tongue in cheek style not unlike Terry Pratchett, but more sci-fi, like Douglas Adams.  In fact, it has quite a bit in common with &quot;Hitchhiker's&quot;, and I think that Marvin and Kryton would probably get along marvelously well.  Perhaps this is something of a developing genre, the male comic adventure in space unquest.  If that's the case, I might lump in &quot;Venus on the Half Shell&quot; (Kilgore Trout, nee Farmer).<br />For those of us who catch this through BBC Prime or PBS, and didn't have the opportunity to watch the original broadcasts in sequence, this book is a boon.  Believe it or not, starting in the middle, I was able to watch a dozen episodes before reading this book and discovering that little incident with the stasis field.  Talk about your &quot;AHH!  That explains it!&quot; moments.  You have a whole new incentive to watch that late Saturday night PBS rerun when you actually know the complete story.  It just seems like coincidence layered on top of infinite impossibility..... until you recognize the cosmic plan at work here.<br />If you buy this book, you might as well buy the sequel, because you won't want to stop, and that way you won't get stuck wanting to know how it turns out and not being able to find part 2.  For me, the book was very true to the TV show, and neither one ruined the other for me.  If you've seen all the shows in sequence, then maybe the book won't be as much of a treat-but my guess is that most literate fans of the show will like the book.   <br />You don't need to have seen &quot;Red Dwarf&quot; to enjoy the book.  I loaned it to a co-worker with a sense of humor and he's having a great time with it-without ever having seen the series.	2000-12-12
US	52579911	R1AYNP4XUWZZCR	0385124740	134905361	Beyond Culture	Books	5	79	83	N	N	Brilliant and inciteful book, and an exciting read	This is a brilliant book.   I thoroughly enjoyed it and am looking forward to reading more of Hall.  <br />Hall was one of the influences on Robert Moran, a professor who teaches Cross-Cultural Communications at the American Graduate School of International Management (see his book &quot;Managing Cultural Differences&quot;).  Although Moran and his co-authors draw on dozens of sources, somehow Hall and his concept of Low-Context and High-Context cultures made a big impression on me in Moran's class.  My only regret is having waited so long to actually read this classic.<br />Hall introduces the concept of context as an human behavioral influence.  A high-context situation is one in which much of the communication is non-verbal or understood because of the shared context.  He characterizes societies as being either low-context, which are typical of northern Europe, or high-context, most dramatically represented by Japan.   Context even affects language, and human speech patterns will change, depending upon who they are speaking to and the context of the communication.  <br />I also thought that his concept of `action chains' was perceptive.  An AC is a sequence of events in which two or more individuals participate.  Shaking hands is a simple chain; becoming engaged is a more complex one.  Again, different cultures vary in their emphasis on completing action chains.  An American may be very casual about dropping an ongoing chain, which may be very negatively received in other cultures. <br />His chapter \\"Culture as an Irrational Force\\" is full of good common-sense advice on getting along with other people.  Hall has provided advice to diplomats and corporate executives, and his book reflects this practical experience.  While it delves into theory, his concepts always have a concrete application.<br />I found his next-to-last chapter, &quot;Culture as an Irrational Force,&quot; entertaining, but I had to agree with much of its overt overt political agenda.  He has some very strong political opinions on human institutions and the declining state of academia.  According to Hall, \\"Bureacracies have no soul, no memory, and no conscience.\\"<br />Certainly, anyone interested in cross-cultural communications would benefit from this book.  At a time when both America and Europe are dealing with immigration issues, this is also an helpful text to help build an awareness of cultural underpinnings that can otherwise be negatively interpreted, leading to misunderstanding and prejudice.	2000-11-26
US	52579911	R23WALXNDTGYSW	0883172100	584207838	The Working Folding Knife	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Informative and interesting book on pocket knives	I'm not a streetfighter, and I don't need a Marine survival knife that can slit somebody's throat, hammer in a tent peg and has fishing gear secreted in the handle.  I just wanted to know why my grandfather carried a Barlow knife and why a pocket knife has so many blades.<br />This book not only satisfied my curiousity about the history and purpose of folding knives, but it helped me choose a new knife and sharpen the ones that I already have.<br />The author covers both traditional styled knives and the latest high-tech materials &amp; one-hand openers.  He also discusses multi-tools (think Leatherman) and survival knives.  For what it's worth, he does cover folding defensive knives.<br />Most of what is available on the subject today is either aimed at military hobbiests or collectors who like to spend big bucks on exotics.  This book is written by somebody who just likes to carry and use pocket knives--working knives for people who aren't afraid to get their blades dirty.  <br />I found it informative and enjoyable, and recommend it for anyone who is interested in pocket knives.  A serious collector would probably want to read this book also, but it isn't intended for people who put their knives in a case and look at them.	2000-11-26
US	52579911	R1LW3MG6LS0RDT	1879572001	318846740	How to Publicize High Tech Products and Services	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent nuts &amp; bolts guide for the do-it-yourselfer	There is certainly an advantage in hiring a good PR firm--very few firms can succeed without it.   However, you may be with a small firm that has minimal resources, or you might be part of a discrete business unit that needs better PR but doesn't have corporate support.  In either case, you are on your own.  Even if you do have the assistance of full-time specialists, having a better understanding of what they do and how they do it will better enable you to choose and direct them.<br />There is nothing profound or novel in this book.  It is just good, solid advice on how to promote your firm or your service.  It takes a very practical, hands-on approach.  <br />How to effectively write an release a press release, how to run a product review (wow, so many young software firms fail at this one!), making the most productive use of a trade show, and holding a press conference.  It is all here.<br />I've used and modified several of the worksheets in this book at multiple employers.<br />I strongly recommend this book for Product Marketing Managers, Product Managers, Practice Leaders, speakers, writers, etc.   Even if you have formal training in marketing, if you haven't had the opportunity of being mentored, you'll find a lot of helpful material in this book.<br />It is simple, but effective.  Good common sense techniques for building awareness of your firm and its products.	2000-11-25
US	52579911	R3VZAV9ZM4BAWO	0201563215	695635397	High-tech Ventures: The Guide For Entrepreneurial Success	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Why don't the VCs read this book?	Having worked for 4 pre-IPO companies, I've seen a lot of inexperienced entrepeneurs make a lot of ill-advised decisions.  Even worse, I've watched their backers blithely sit back and believe that they will become rich on the strength of some new buzzword.<br />It takes a good plan and better execution to turn a startup into a real company--two things that seem to be lacking in most new ventures.<br />Gordon Bell has created a complete model for the stages of a startup firm.  VCs, executives, and ESPECIALLY potential new hires should use these models to estimate the success factor of a startup.  I think the 6 characteristics of a successful high-tech CEO are priceless.  Of the duds that I've worked for, none of the CEOs could meet these stringent requirements.  Are there many people who do?  No.  Do most startups fail?   Yes.   I urge anyone looking to join a startup to get this book, and even if you don't feel inclined to read it through, at least see what Bell has to say about the CEO, and then use his criteria to evaluate the leader at the team you are considering joining. <br />Another one of his observations that rings true to my experience is the danger of 'multiple agendas.'  There is something in the nature of an entrepeneur that seems to make it almost impossible to focus on a single product or niche market, at least until it some measure of market success is achieved.  I've fought this battle many times, and I've never understood why the VCs and the Board don't reign in their eager young entrepeneurs.  I've concluded that it is because they are often ignorant themselves.  Being able to spend somebody else's money doesn't automatically confer wisdom. <br />This book is almost 10 years old, but many of the author's predictions came true.  I think he over-estimated the advantages of Japan, but perhaps American business actually learned something from Japan and applied it.  If American management had not done that, perhaps Bell's predictions of Japanese economic superiority would have come to pass also.<br />I did think that it was interesting to read an engineer's perspective on marketing.  An intelligent and experienced person often has wise things to say, even about disciplines where they have no formal educational background.  I would strongly urge both marketing and engineering people to approach this text with an open mind.<br />Overall, this is a wise and perceptive book.  It provides a good persective on the high-tech startup phenomenom and anyone who wishes to better understand the internal dynamics of a startup would find this an interesting and rewarding read.	2000-11-25
US	52579911	RLZCNA8IATGPO	0415186854	694473440	Alphabet to Email: How Written English Evolved and Where It's Heading	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Fascinating book for a general audience	Every communications technology has significantly affected the nature of human language.  With the growing ubiquity of the Internet, this is an appropriate time to take a look at the effect of technological change on language and to see if historical patterns repeat themselves in the virtual world.<br />I am personally fascinated by languages.  I'm amazed by the richness and variety of human communication, and by the constant change in vocabulary, grammar and style.   In comparison to other languages, written English is pretty close to spoken English-even parts of this review uses language similar to what I might use in an intellectual conversation about a book on linguistics.  Still, I thought that I'd give Baron a chance, and see what she had to say.  I'm glad that I did.<br />This is not a book for academics.  It is written for the educated and somewhat motivated layperson.  With a glib style, and a keen awareness of the need to explain linguistic concepts to her readers, Baron's book is informative and enjoyable.  According to the author, written English was once virtually identical to speech, serving as a record of spoken words.  As needs changed, and technology permitted, language patterns in written English diverged significantly from spoken English.  However, and perhaps motivated by the requirements and capabilities of new transportation and telecommunications technologies, written English has made a decisive retreat from the formal, and appears to be reconverging towards spoken language patterns.<br />She paints a dynamic picture of the historical ballet of written English.  The give and take as the prescriptivists (think William Safire) and the descriptivists each have their day.    Since the 1960s, American dictionaries have been largely descriptive, no longer trying to impose the ideals of their editors on the language, but instead trying to provide a written reference to actual usage (this is why contemporary dictionaries include profanities).<br />Notbeing a big fan of anything written before the late 19th century, I can easily accept that written language has become less formal.  For me, Mark Twain was one of the earliest writers to use a style that doesn't feel horribly anachronistic.  Interestingly enough, Twain was the first author to provide his publisher with a typewritten book manuscript.  Baron makes a compelling case for the influence of technology, like the typewriter, on the English language.  Again and again, the significance of new communications technologies is often completely misunderstood.  Conservative social elements resist new technologies out of concern for their perceived negative effect on cultural values.  Perhaps justifying this natural social backlash, once a communications technology becomes commonplace, it results in permanent changes on written and spoken language.<br />So what will be the effect of the Internet on our mother tongue?  I wouldn't spoil a good story by leaking the ending, but I can tell you that her conclusions are well-reasoned and highly credible.  If you are even mildly interested in language issues, communications, or the social effects of the Internet, then you will find this an enjoyable and informative text.  If you are interested in further reading or research, you'll be pleased with the lengthy bibliography.	2000-11-16
US	52579911	R198V8WK26FJW2	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	17	28	N	N	Wise advice: If you don't get, you need to keep trying.	This deceptively simple book contains wise and sage advice.  <br />Coincidentally, the 3 consultants from my firm working in the same room on an out-of-town engagement had all read this book.  My father-in-law, who is an experienced and perceptive leader, sent me my copy--otherwise, I would never have bothered to read a thin little self-help book like this.<br />It turned out to be a profound and extraordinarily helpful book.  It is completely consistent with my observations of life--especially life at work. Being in high-tech, and dealing with constant unanticipated organizational changes, I've learned that some people thrive on them and others just become miserable.<br />Which would you rather be, the one who thrives, or the one who is miserable?  I know way too many of the miserable ones, and usually, they just don't want to stop being miserable.  (hem, hem)<br />I guess it isn't surprising that the reviews of this book are so polarized.  Either you get it, or you don't, and if you don't get it, this book would seem pretty trivial.  If you think it's trivial, I suggest you try again. Any model is meant as a simplification--a two-dimensional representation of an impossibly complex world.  This little book isn't meant to explain all of life, and it isn't an exploration of why change happens.  It is merely a recognition that many changes are seemingly arbitrary and our choice is to either respond positively or negatively.<br />If this book has a fatal flaw, perhaps it is that the story isn't convincing enough.  For anyone who has learned to accept change with humor and detachment and chosen to view unanticipated events as a challenge, this book may just increase your personal belief that you are well-adjusted.  That seems harmless enough.  On the other hand, it is easy for me to envision many of the people whom I see stubbornly refusing to accept change also being totally unmoved by this book.  In other words, if you can see it, you don't need to read about it, andif you can't see it, reading about it will be aggravating.<br />My advice is to try.  Accept this cheese metaphor as just one way to view certain aspects of life--as a very healthy way to approach events that may otherwise be interpreted as negatives.  Change is inevitable.  Sometimes you do have control over change, and that means you have protected your cheese. Sometimes, that cheese just goes away and it is not within your power to prevent it.  But you always have control of your own attitude, and that is the real lesson of this book.	2000-11-16
US	52579911	R3CZKXNPD4BKKX	078972443X	930655504	TANGLED WEB: Tales of Digital Crime from the Shadows of Cyberspace	Books	3	17	18	N	Y	Entertaining, but not a textbook on information warfare	There is very little original thinking or detailed analysis in &quot;Tangled Web.&quot;  It is a pastiche of sound bites from security experts who are associates of the author.  Chapter 2 goes a bit beyond sound bites, but it is still a rehash of other sources, and anyone who is moderately well-read in infosec will find that they have already been over all of this ground.  <br />In addition to the quotes and sound bites, the author makes extensive use of the CSI/FBI survey (Power is the inspiration and driving force behind it).  This study was conducted within a self-selecting audience that was expected to ESTIMATE the cost and frequency of the attacks they believe their organization experienced.  It may be the best information we have, but it does not really represent a scientifically rigorous survey that can be accepted as providing an accurate understanding of the true cost or extent of computer crime.  It looks impressive, but it is also designed to support the common agenda of Power's organization (the Computer Security Institute), and the FBI.  Certainly the material is not intended to discourage people from attending CSI workshops.<br />Besides the lack of rigor in the much-quoted survey, the constant exaggeration of the monetary cost of hack-attack damages is misleading.  Power delves into the pseudo-scientific again by using 7 significant figures to report on estimated costs of hacking sprees.  I'm no fan of Mitnick, but quoting the inflated loss estimates provided by his victims does not make them fact.  I think highly of Marcus Ranum, but he's hardly a cost accountant, so I question using his financial estimates on how much a hack attack costs a victim.  To be fair, Power does follow the Ranum interview with an interview of an experienced accountant, but the fact is that nobody has any idea what the cost of information security failures really is.   <br />If you are familiar with the CSI newsletter, you'll recognize the author's hand in this book--lots ofquick anecdotes about bad things happening to good people, but no analysis.  The writing follows this same newsletter writing style.  Short sentences.  Really short paragraphs.  I find this writing style distracting, but it is a matter of personal preference, and it matches the material.  This is a book that is easy to read in short bursts, which will be advantageous if you don't have a lot of time to spend on this subject.  <br />This is a good book for an executive or neophyte who wants to read a single book that helps them understand the current nature of Internet crime, provides them a quick exposure to some of the personalities and philosophies of some prominent infocrime fighters, and concludes with solid suggestions on what needs to be done.  But if you want to be a specialist in information security, then you need to read books with greater depth than this one. <br />This is not a meaty tome, it contains no original ideas, and the reported cost of Internet attacks is not substantiated.  However, it is a quick and interesting read if you are curious and only have time for a single book.	2000-11-15
US	52579911	R3CPYM77X61WIS	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Strong start, slow finish	This ambitious novel starts out as a totally gripping story, but slows markedly towards the end.  The politics become tedious, the portrayal of the NSA as evil is naive, and Randy Waterhouse's growing adolescent preoccupation with sex is annoying.  On the positive side, it is a deft interweaving of a historical novel and techno-thriller, knitting together a multi-generational set of characters into a combination of coincidence worthy of Wodehouse.  <br />Aside from the overt political agenda, the technical foundations are accurate and the idea of a third-world country hosting a data refuge is totally credible.  The depiction of the social ramifications and technical underpinnings of such a facility are believable, but what could have been a profound commentary on the cyclical nature of history degenerates into something of an indulgence for sexually unsatisfied nerds.  <br />Taking &quot;Cryptonomicon&quot; on an extended out of town trip with some extra reading time, I was completely sucked into the story for the first week--I didn't want to stop reading. Stephenson crafts a wonderful turn of the phrase, and I came close to underlining passages (my ultimate measure of 5-star books). By the third week, I was struggling to finish.  Either the author ran out of clever allusions, or I was no longer in the mood to be entertained in that way.  I found myself highly interested in the fate of the historical characters, but the contemporary characters are shallower, and I stopped caring what happened to them.  Personally, I think this book could be improved by cutting at least 100 pages.    <br />Certainly the audience of this book is not limited to those who work in the field of information security.  On the contrary, this book is carefully crafted to be educational--without being intrusive about it, and it is much more successful in its technical agenda than its social one.   <br />If you provide technical services or engineering for the Internet--especially in the infosec field--you may find this book irresistable.  It isn't every day that someone in your field of employment has the chance to be the protagonist of a major literary work.	2000-11-09
US	52579911	R3B0FWF8CB17EF	0521484537	212413392	Why Switzerland? 2nd Edition	Books	5	112	113	N	Y	Must read if you spend over a week in Switzerland	This turned out to be an utterly fascinating book, and it explained quite a bit about Swiss behavior and culture.  While I of course can't vouch for everything in the book, I've tested a lot of it by observation and questioning the natives, and it seems consistent with reality.<br />Switzerland turns out to have a number of unique characteristics that aren't obvious to the outsider.  For example, the government consists of an extraordinarily complex nested set of committees with a rotating presidency.  The author makes the case that virtually all Swiss institutions, including government at all levels, the church and major corporations, are strongly influenced by an 800-year tradition of committee organization.  In spite of having the most stable government in Europe (which my Swiss co-workers do not dispute), Switzerland has one of the most malleable constitutions in the world (which my co-workers do dispute).  <br />I'm personally fascinated by language issues, so I read ahead to that chapter before finishing the lengthy chapter on politics.  Again, Switzerland is unique in its treatment of dialects, which have very different social implications and practices in the French, German, Italian, and Romansh areas.  According to the author, the urban Swiss Germans gave serious consideration to aligning themselves with 'greater Germany' in the 19th century.  This obviously did not take place, and one of the unique results is that the local versions of Schwyzer Tüütsch (choose your spelling depending upon the valley you're in) are universally spoken without significant class variations.  In other words, this chapter explains why the Italian Swiss are more likely to be comfortable in standard Italian, and the French Swiss are more comfortable in standard French, than the Swiss Germans are speaking standard German.  As any outsider who speaks German is painfully aware, the Swiss Germans read and write standard German (Hochdeutsch), but generally prefer not to speak it.<br/>Swiss seem more willing to discuss politics than religion, but the chapter on religion was enlightening.  After all, Switzerland was at the heart of the reformation, with Zwingli in Züri and Calvin in Geneva.  Again, the Swiss are unique among European countries in their treatment of religion and the extraordinary compromises they have made to allow the peaceful co-existence of roman catholicism and protestantism.<br />The Swiss military is, unsurprisingly at this point, another unique institution.  Virtually the entire male population is expected to belong to the reserves for most of their working years, and they keep their weapons and ammunition in their homes.  It was only recently that 52 year olds were no longer required to serve a short annual duty.  I've found that the military intrudes regularly when you are working with the Swiss, so besides being interesting, the chapter on the Army is helpful in becoming more aware of some of the workplace dynamics.<br />How can a country with 4 different official languages have and maintain a common culture?  What do the different regions have in common?  Quite a bit, actually.  Anyone who deals with the Swiss on a regular basis or spends over a week here would find this book a helpful start on building an understanding of Swiss institutions and culture.  This would also be an excellent book for students doing cultural area studies of Europe or Switzerland.  It is a good read, and anyone interested in contemporary Europe would enjoy it and find it educational.	2000-11-08
US	52579911	R3FC1SJTNAKXR6	3952000248	607712336	Ticking Along with the Swiss	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Fun and helpful book	Americans are typically not well prepared for a cross-cultural experience.  We live in a huge, relatively homogenous country, and can live our entire lifespan without recourse to a second language or exposure to someone who holds their fork in their left hand.  This isn't an indictment of Americans, it is just a recognition that without being in close proximity to other cultural rivals, we have no economic or social incentive to understand that others are different than we are in unforseen ways.<br />I found this book charming and entertaining.  It is a selection of essays written by fluent English speakers who have spent long periods of time in Switzerland.  It is also very helpful in understanding some of the subtleties of Swiss behavior and thought process.  <br />It is presumptious to think that inside of a few years you can totally understand a culture, but it is also arrogant not to try to understand it and meet it on its own terms.  The way to do this is through study of their language, personal experience, readings on relevant sociological topics, and by reading essays like this by people bringing different view points and experiences.<br />The essays vary from very light and short pieces, to descriptions of unique Swiss behaviors, to autobiographical accounts.  The dryest piece, but by no means least useful, is a helpful description of culture shock and suggestions on working through it.<br />While I think Americans especially need to work at cross-cultural communications skills, the book is certainly not meant just for Americans--it is meant for everyone who wants to understand more about the Swiss.  Providing the varied viewpoints of 30 different commentators with completely different backgrounds, the book succeeds.  Apparently, even the Swiss find it enjoyable to read this honest and objective essays by 'outsiders' living within their borders.<br />This is a completely different type of book from either a tourist guidebook, or a guide to Euro etiquette.Those books have their place also, but don't limit yourself to them.	2000-09-20
US	52579911	R1STB9IQ27WSJJ	0471253111	52389233	Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World	Books	5	87	93	N	Y	Excellent intro infosec book that everyone should read	Written by one of my favorite industry commentators, this is an  introductory text on information security that should be useful to just  about everyone.  I highly recommend this book for the following  audiences:<br />  · Beginning security specialists<br />  · IS and other business  managers who make decisions about systems deployment<br />  · Experienced  security practitioners who want to improve their thinking and analysis  skills<br />  · Those studying for security certification, such as the  CISSP<br />  · Software and Internet product planning and marketing staff (and  not just security software)<br />Schneier, who is recognized for his  contributions to cryptography, has recently found religion.  As recounted  in a recent interview in \\"Information Security\\" magazine, he realized that  humans were destroying the purity of his mathematical approach.  Instead of  retreating into academia, he tackled this issue head-on, some of the result  of which is this landmark book.  He recommends reading it cover to cover,  and I agree with him-it takes all 400 pages to paint the complete story,  and if you don't approach it linearly, you run the risk of missing the  subtleties of the author's message.  Skimming this book could easily trap a  reader into equating vulnerability with risk.  The world is full of risk,  and while Schneier takes obvious delight in deconstructing the  vulnerabilities of automated systems, it is important to understand that  historical manual systems are quite vulnerable too, and humans deal with  the risk quite nicely.  Read the whole book.<br />The chapters that I found  most significant included:<br />  · (6 &amp; 7) Cryptography: It is no  surprise that he was written a terrific introduction to the concepts and  building blocks (primitives and protocols) of encryption.  Even  techno-agnostics will find great value in his discussion of the problems  with proprietary algorithms.<br />  · (9) Identification &amp; Authentication:  An excellent introduction to the problems of passwords and helpful  discussion of the limitations of biometrics.  He makes it clear why  biometrics are NOT a magic cure for security problems.<br />  · (12) Network  Defenses: Schneier tells it like it is!  The ugly truth about sexy security  toys.<br />  · (13) Software Reliability: Best description of stack overflow  that I've ever seen for a lay audience.<br />  · (22) Product Testing and  Verification: After crypto, evaluating software for security flaws is  Schneier's other specialty, and he's written an awesome chapter.  The  author makes it very clear why it is unrealistic to expect invulnerable  software, he single-handedly  conducts a totally balanced debate on the  merits of full disclosure, and he finishes the chapter with sage advice on  approaching security product reviews with healthy skepticism.<br />I'm often  asked to recommend introductory texts on information security, and  unfortunately there really aren't that many good books for a newbie.  If  more books existed, I would probably give Schneier's book a 4 instead of a  5, but for now, this is one of the best.  As he explains in the Afterward,  his `epiphany' occurred only 12 months before completing the text-this  isn't much time to become an expert in security process.  His background is  somewhat removed from day to day operations, and perhaps this lack of  administrative experience results in a few weak areas.  I suggest that the  reader exercise some critical thinking and consult additional authorities  when reading the following chapters:<br />  · (4) Adversaries: his concept of  computer criminals is a bit weak, pretty much lumping all transgressors  into the mutually exclusive categories of `spy' or `hacker'.  <br />  · (5)  Security Needs: Sof of his terminology lacks precision (perhaps inevitable  when addressing a general audience).  I disagree that a spoofed message  represents an integrity failure, and I don't characterize audit as a  requirement, but as a control.  <br />  · (15) Certificates and Credentials:  He totally ignores the concept that practice statements (policies on CA and  especially certificate management) provide any arbitrary level of  assurance-the more stringent the rules, the higher the assurance.  He  doesn't discuss time stamping and other forms of third-party witnessing  that can greatly strengthen a digital signature.<br />  · (16) Security  Tricks: His vehement attack on key recovery is politically extreme.  The  government's ill-conceived desire for key escrow should not affect the  responsibility a corporation has to protect its own data.  Who hasn't used  an encryption product and lost a key?<br />  · (21) Attack Trees: This is a  marvelously useful idea, but he leaves the impression that these can be  used to create quantifiable risk models, and I don't believe that putting  information security risk in dollar value terms is practical.<br />Despite its  length, the book is a quick read, and the informal tone makes it very  approachable. It is addressed at a completely different audience than  &quot;Applied Cryptography&quot;--it isn't a technical book--it is more of  a business book.  (Technical specialists would be well advised to read more  business texts like this.)  My copy is already well marked with  highlighting and notes-this text has a lot of meat in it, and many new and  useful ideas.  If you find this book helpful in your job and you want to do  additional reading, two complementary texts on the human aspects of infosec  that I recommend are &quot;The Process of Network Security&quot; by Thomas  Wadlow, and &quot;Fighting Computer Crime : A New Framework for Protecting  Information&quot; by Donn B. Parker (I've reviewed both here on Amazon).	2000-09-18
US	52579911	R121SYRGMGNCFR	0929408098	908087247	The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey into the Underground	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Explains virus writer psychology &amp; industry politics well	This is a quirky but entertaining little book.  It contains the best  description I've found on the psychology and dynamics of the virus-writing  community.  The interesting thing about the AV business is that the  software vendors are often just as colorful as the people writing the  viruses.  This book captures the melodrama of the anti-virus industry and  accurately portrays the spy vs spy nature of the constant escalations  between the attackers and the defenders.  The author is absolutely  correct--they do know each other and they do talk. Most purchasers of AV  software have no idea how flamboyant the personalities are at the helms of  their software suppliers.<br />I can confirm several of the outlandish stories  contained in Smith's book.  I have no reason to doubt anything he says--it  seems completely consistent with my experiences.<br />Besides providing a  helpful understanding of the nature of hostile code and its source, this  book is also an excellent read.  It is enjoyable and engrossing.   It does  not delve into the bits &amp; bytes of viruses, nor does it discuss the  mechanics of transmission and reproduction mechanisms.  If you want that,  read Fred Cohen or Alan Solomon. Unlike their books, this one is not only  educational, but is also entertaining.	2000-04-15
US	52579911	R16ED314D0H5QT	0201433176	413497474	The Process of Network Security: Designing and Managing a Safe Network	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Deserves to become a classic	Wadlow's new book is full of sage and useful guidance for medium to large organizations that are completely dependent upon the Internet.  Intended mainly for the chief security officer, or the administrator responsible for  information protection, this book is not so much about technology as it is  about how to apply technology.  It clearly describes how to effectively  configure and administer your information systems and your staff in order  to prevent security incidents and, when the inevitable does happen, to  recover as quickly and completely as possible.<br />With 20 years of relevant  experience, the author has done some deep thinking on this subject.  As an  example, he lists 27 different job functions performed by the security  team.  Will any organization actually have 27 different security  specialists?  No, but any security manager would be well-advised to review  that list to ensure that all necessary functions are covered by  somebody.<br />Wadlow provides helpful ideas on creating an effective security  policy-even when management hasn't bought into the idea yet, and has sound  advice on both hiring and firing staff.  Read the chapters &quot;Preparing  for an Attack&quot; and &quot;Handling an Attack&quot; before its too late.   Chapters on auditing, log file analysis, and forensics all provide  concrete guidance on these difficult processes.<br />The book is filled with  helpful analogies that are useful in developing an understanding of the  nature of network security.  One of the biggest difficulties in training  people to become effective in the security arena is in developing the  mindset-an innate understanding of information security dynamics.  You need  a grasp of the big picture to have that intuitive realization that without  a constant proactive security effort, you are actually moving backwards.   It is a process and Wadlow presents it in a clear and compelling  fashion.<br />If you want to think securely-if information security is part ofyour current or future responsibilities and you'd like a more mature  concept of what that entails, then you will find this book invaluable.	2000-04-10
US	52579911	R194059895SMTZ	1578701856	731657946	Intrusion Detection	Books	4	36	37	N	Y	An excellent textbook, but not an implementor's handbook	This is a well-researched and well-written text.  It is an excellent complement to Northcutt's book, which is more concrete and oriented to the hands-on practitioner.  Those hoping to just buy an off-the-shelf IDS and  turn it on may find Bace's book somewhat abstract.  Although it reads well,  it has a very strong academic flavor (this is probably inevitable in any  book that uses the word 'etiology' twice in the first chapter).  If  Amoroso's book is a graduate-level text, then this is an appropriate book  for undergrads.<br />Every specialized text on security seems to succumb to  the temptation to flesh out the book with elementary security topics, and  this one is no exception.  Whether they are absolutely appropriate in a  book like this or not, Bace does offer some very wise and useful advice and  understandings on information security in general--some of which I was able  to apply immediately by sharing with a client.<br />The author provides a  comprehensive history of intrusion detection that is effective in creating  an understanding of the reasons that specific techniques are used and what  their shortcomings and strong points are--15 years worth of non-commercial  intrusion detection systems are described and analyzed.  While academic and  government sponsored IDS initiatives are well-covered, those who are  shopping for a commercial solution will probably be disappointed by the  almost total lack of mention of currently available products. Discussion of  commercial products consists of generalizations such as &quot;Many  products&quot; or &quot;some products&quot; or &quot;be aware of vendors  that&quot;.<br />The chapter on legal issues is excellent and up-to-date, and  it should be read by anyone implementing any form of monitoring system.    The chapter 'For Strategists' is just a rehash of basic risk management  concepts.  It isn't particularly applicable to IDS and I disagree with the  author on the prominence of ROI calculations in the security product  implementation decision process.  The bibliography is complete and very  current.  Although it lacks annotations, many of the sources are referenced  within the book itself, so the reader interested in further research has  plenty of guidance.<br />The weaknesses in this book are probably due to a  lack of audience focus.  It is aimed at Chief Security Officers, network  and OS admins, college compsci students, and security systems designers.   <br />Consultants and decision-makers should read this text, as should network  engineers who want to expand their awareness of the tools they are  purchasing and using.   Given that this serves well as a reference book,  the sturdy hard binding is appreciated, and the pages withstand  highlighting without bleed through.  It isn't a lot of verbiage for the  price, but the quality is high.	2000-04-07
US	52579911	R28MS42DD7H10K	0890069484	182809298	The Definitive Guide to Business Resumption Planning (Artech House Telecommunications Library)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Useful guide to a dry subject is worth the high cost	This is an informative book, and is reasonably interestinggiven the dry subject.  I found it more helpful than the Jon Toigobook.  It has an emphasis on telecom recovery and redundancies that was missing from Toigo.  The book is weaker on IS recovery, and the author is not really well-acquainted with computer security topics, although he discusses them.  In spite of this, the book has an excellent little LAN security policy.  <br />The references to Qmodem and Procomm are hints that although this is a 1997 book, it is based on earlier material.<br />Wrobel includes a number of helpful checklists and interview guides.  His &quot;Sample Operating and Security Standards&quot; in Appendix F is a useful section that could serve as a standard for data center physical security.  END	2000-04-06
US	52579911	R1J7V1RYAXP79R	0787902772	393830346	The Abilene Paradox and Other Meditations on Management	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Every manager with a conscience should read this book	Brilliant, wise, humane and funny, Harvey's classic book on organizational behavior is  entertaining and thought provoking.  Many of his explanations about corporate behavior struck a chord with me--I read this one with a pen  in hand, jotting down notes about specific experiences that I have had in  phrog farms.  If you are unhappy at work, maybe it is not your fault--maybe  you are stuck in a degrading and unhealthy work environment.   <br />Harvey  expects a great deal from leaders in business, politics, and even  education, and is not reticent to criticize them for abusing their position  of authority.  He characterizes contemporary corporate culture as being a  virtual conspiracy, assisted by a higher-education system that teaches  students not to cooperate, but to actively resist working together.  A  radical idea that deserves some consideration.<br />This is almost--but not  quite--a spiritual book, and the author even claims the attributes of a  preacher.  It is a secular take on the theme Edward Welch discusses in  &quot;When People are Big and God is Small.&quot;  The fear of other people  has tremendous negative consequences--both personally and organizationally.   Like Welch, Harvey's  highlights the benefit of overcoming that fear and  provides practical advice on how to do it.<br />Anyone manager with a  conscience should read Harvey, just to ensure that they are not  perpetuating an unethical system.	2000-03-23
US	52579911	R2G329IPSTB2CS	1886228329	39395599	Cleveland TV Memories (Ohio)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Every Cleveland babyboomer should read this	I can't imagine anyone who didn't come of age in Cleveland having an interest in this book, but if your view of life was formed by the rich variety of local Cleveland programming during the fifties and sixties,  you'll probably enjoy it.  This short book consists of 363 single  paragraphs that cover the gamut of Cleveland's TV history.  For me, it  cleared up a number of deep mysteries related to Woodrow the Woodsman, and  I had completely forgotten the peanut butter &amp; jelly sandwich-eating  elephant.  If you are like me, and still hum that Lawsons &quot;Roll On Big  O&quot; ditty, but can't remember all the words, take heart--they are here,  along with the words to Mr. Jingeling's theme  and Commander Ray's Westpark  Chevy jingle.  Until I read this book, I had no idea that the rest of the  world does not use the Larry, Curley &amp; Moe order promulgated by Captain  Penny.  Go figure.  This little text is chock full of fascinating  factoids.<br />This is a fun book that will bring back memories you didn't  even know you had.  And, remember, you can fool some of the people all the  time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can't fool Mom!	2000-03-22
US	52579911	R2KY9LLY0O5O97	0803289065	687903496	Peder Victorious: A Tale of the Pioneers Twenty Years Later	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Out of the Old World, into the New	This book is the sequel to &quot;Giants in the Earth,&quot; an engrossing adventure story about the settlement of the South Dakota prairie.  Peder turned out to be entirely different, more cerebral, slower, less  exhuberant.  I read Giants to learn what my ancestors experienced.  It  turned out to be a truly significant and exciting novel, but I didn't   learn much about the Norwegian-American experience.  I picked up Peder to  discover what happened to the characters in Giant.  Instead, I gained a  deeper understanding of the joys and agonies that my family must have  experienced as they lost their Norwegian language and culture, becoming  Americans.<br />Peder starts off slowly.  Revolving around the title  character, it uses Peder Holm's experience as an adolescent as a device to  illustrate the changes and conflicts within the Norwegian-American  community.  As he becomes more mature, and his dilemmas become more adult,  the story becomes more engrossing.<br />I have to admit that I set this one  down for about a month before finishing it, but I'm ready to read the next  one.  In many ways, it is a more significant novel than Giants.  It was  moving and thought-provoking. Great novels are not always an easy  read--this one is worth a bit of patience through Peder's childhood years.	2000-03-09
US	52579911	R36HCLVT35Q7FM	0471314994	863114655	ISP Survival Guide: Strategies for Running a Competitive ISP	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Good outline, but a mediocre execution.	This book succeeds as a handbook--it is truly comprehensive.  Unfortunately, it lacks depth in virtually every topic, and the writing is unacceptable--where was the editor?<br />Anyone in a management position  within an ISP--or consulting for one--will be most effective in their job  if they are familiar with the material in this book. Starting with the  history of the Internet, it zips through a quick introduction of TCP/IP and  immediately becomes bogged down in an interminably long and obtuse  discussion of routing (Perlman is both easier to read and more detailed).   A tortuous 45 page discussion of VPNs concludes with a terse and useful  8-word definition.  <br />In spite of its flaws, it manages to at least touch  on telecom technology, QoS, security, the role of the Internet authorities,  and relationships between ISPs.  The majority of ISP product offerings are  discussed, and it includes a lengthy discussion of ISP business models.   Everything is here but marketing, which is covered in a different Wiley  text.<br />The book tries to be all things to all people, but specialists in  any of the areas discussed, from technology to business, could find a  better, more specific source, and it could easily be half this length  without losing any information. A usable handbook would be twice this size,  and half as prolix.  Until such a text exists, I reluctantly recommend this  one.  Skim it if you have to, but if you work in the business you should be  familiar with everything in this book.	2000-03-09
US	52579911	R3PTJXFJPNR5DJ	0684864223	129159315	Between Silk and Cyanide: A Codemaker's War, 1941-1945	Books	4	3	3	N	N	E-Commerce decisions makers should read this book	The guy has a bit of an ego, and the book is too cutsey, but Marks is a successful screenwriter and it reads well.  <br />I would recommend this for anyone looking to learn more about cryptography.  Unlike most books that  are more oriented towards algorithms and protocols, this makes the  operational issues of creating and analyzing encrypted messages very clear.   <br />Anyone involved with e-commerce implementations but unfamiliar with the  application of encryption would do well to read this book and learn how  dangerous poor practices and half-hearted implementations can be to a  security system.	2000-03-09
US	52579911	R2U3DQ69D1KFQA	0375753052	221254919	Topper (Modern Library)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Terrific Jazz-era story, funny and thoughtful	Who hasn't fallen in love with a ghost at least once in their life? <br />Topper is absolutely delightful.  While in some ways it was considered scandalous at the time, it certainly seems innocent today.  It has a  lightness and freshness lacking in his later works. Some contemporary  readers may be unused to fiction that lacks violence and overt sex, but the  appeal of this story is Cosmo's mid-life crisis and its sucessful  resolution with the supernatural assistance of a carful of hard-drinking,  carefree spirits.<br />Whoever coined the phrase 'witty repartee' probably had  this book in mind.  It's a fun read that kept me entertained all the way  from Seattle to Virginia.<br />One word of advice before you start.  Smith  uses an interesting motif in this book over and over again.  Keep your eyes  open for it.	2000-03-06
US	52579911	R2JUP5FS93QRRT	0553373684	13934161	Green Grass, Running Water	Books	5	24	29	N	N	A great romp, with some depth to it	This is a great romp.  King has an almost Wodehousian sense of comic coincidence, but with a subtler and rarer touch.  Although it is a hilarious book, the discovery of yet another connection between the novel's converging story lines is just as likely to elicit an 'ah ha' as a belly  laugh.  It's funny, but humor is applied with some depth.<br />King pokes fun  at his characters and their foibles, but he always does it with a certain  sense of reverance. &quot;Tomorrow, he would begin to floss.&quot; he says  of one character when at the age of 40 he decides to finally do something  meaningful with his life.   It takes courage in a post modern, politically  correct world, but maybe laughing with someone about their own cultural  baggage is a sincere and accessible form of respect.  <br />I have to point  out that from a Christian perspective, parts of the book could be viewed as  sacrilegious.  Although they are the heroes of the book, perhaps some  aboriginal Americans would also consider his reworking of mythological  stories as being inappropriate--I cannot say.  I choose instead to  interpret this in cultural instead of religious terms.  One of the major  themes of the book is the oppressiveness of western cultural imperialism  and its affect on the remaining indigenous population.  Its hard to do that  without taking a poke or two at the religion that has so frequently been  used as an excuse for non-religious cultural and economic  activities.<br />King is insightful and droll--no gender, race, or occupation  is completely safe from his biting wit and sense of the absurd.   A review  on the book cover describes his similarity to Twain, and I think the  comparison is apt.  Like Twain, the dialogue is snappy, colloquial and  believable.    The story is funny, engrossing and challenging.  I think  Twain would have liked it and recommended it.  I do too.	2000-03-06
US	52579911	R1RMUILBXGXCO3	0887308244	391698951	Inside the Tornado: Marketing Strategies from Silicon Valley's Cutting Edge	Books	5	10	10	N	N	You're nuts if you market high-tech without this book	Moore applies the technology acquisition curve and product life cycle management to the high-tech market, which is characterized by discontinuous innovations (changing paradigms) and market upheavals.  He uses actual case  studies of high-tech successes and failures to illustrate his model.    Effectively utilizing some of the most profound writers in marketing, he  weaves in important concepts from Levitt, Davidow, and Treacy &amp;   Wiersema.     <br />If you are in high-tech, this is an essential book to  read.  You might not be in a tornado, but you won't know if you don't read  the book.  It explains a lot that you won't learn in business school.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R270TOM45V5ER2	002907990X	975271446	Marketing High Technology	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A must-have book for high-tech marketing staff	This is a great guide to success in the high-tech marketplace.   Although it predates Geoff Moore's model, it is completely complementary to Moore.  Unlike Moore, Davidow goes into much more depth in terms of appropriate  marketing activities.   This is a useful book for all marketers,  executives, engineers, and financial decision makers.  It accurately  portrays the dangers of making marketing decisions with an engineering  mindframe instead of using business concepts.<br />Davidow's personal  experience at Intel was invaluable in making compelling case studies.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R1VINY31N8F0MT	0684855313	833567954	Microsoft Secrets: How the World's Most Powerful Software Company Creates Technology, Shapes Markets and Manages People	Books	4	18	25	N	N	Good lesson in Software Product Management	Fascinating detailed account of how the most significant firm in the industry makes product and marketing decisions.  Cusumano and Selby were given unprecedented access to Microsoft staff at all levels of the firm.   <br />This text is most interesting to high-tech weenies who want to  understand how Microsoft organizes its product development and market  introduction.  Like IBM, Microsoft feels that a market leader is obligated  to create its own language.  If you want to know the difference between a  MSFT Program Manager and a MSFT Product Manager, get this book.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R26HI24DGIK2BE	0394710541	724799729	Norwegian Folktales (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	55	56	N	N	Marvelous stories for children and adults	My 9-year old was enthralled with the stories in this book, begging for more every night until we finished it.  I disagree with his Freudian interpretation, but Bruno Bettelheim is right that folktales touch  something wired within us, fulfilling an innate need children have to  comprehend the adult world.<br />Although not as well-known as the German  Grimm's collection in the United States, this book is widely revered in  Norway.  Both are teutonic cultures, but these stories are different in  character and feel from the Grimm Brother stories.  While they contain  elements common to all european fables, this book is filled with trolls,  and the reformation seems like a recent event.  Norsk tales have a unique  and compelling charm.  <br />My favorite fable is in this collection--the one  about the mill that explains why the sea is salty.  Read it yourself--I  don't want to spoil the ending.<br />From a purist point of view, drawings  detract from stories such as these, but two of Norway's most most  well-known illustrators are represented, and the artwork is compelling.   <br />This paperback is a reprint of the original English-language translation  from 40 years ago.  I have that original text packed away somewhere lost,  so it was a real treat to be able to buy a new copy to share with my son.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R2G9PUD4LBQYHL	0201407191	382099218	The Discipline of Market Leaders: Choose Your Customers, Narrow Your Focus, Dominate Your Market	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Common sense marketing perspective	Winning firms focus on one of three customer value disciplines: product leadership, customer intimacy, or operational excellence.   Trying to be all things to everybody is tantamount to being nothing for anyone.  If your  firm can't get its act together, you'll find this an inspiring book that  makes a compelling case that success is only possible by having the courage  to focus on specific tasks &amp; disciplines. This seems very elementary,  but I've observed many firms that refused to choose what they wanted to be,  ensuring that they became nothing.  This book is helpful in positioning  exercises.<br />I have two concerns about the book.  1, it doesn't need to be  this long in order to get the central idea across.  2, I'm becoming  increasingly convinced that this model is counterproductive in a Geoff  Moore tornado period.  If you're in a high-tech tornado, wait until Main  Street before applying discipline.<br />Aside from these caveats, I still find  the simple model presented in this book as being useful in analyzing market  approaches.  You have to understand the model in order to know when it  isn't appropriate.  Product Managers, sales, marketing and product  development staff need to be aware of this book and its ideas.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R35ZXKA6FDODD3	0375502777	961103050	The Nudist on the Late Shift: And Other True Tales of Silicon Valley	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He understands the essence of the high-tech startup	This is a droll and perceptive look at the current state of high-tech startups.  I thought it was both a terrific read and an accurate portrayal of the late 20th century tulip-bulb investment phenomenon.  Bronson kept  close tabs on several startups, following the whole wacky process from  start to beginning.  Observing the attorneys from multiple competing  backers hash out the final details of a prospectus, he observes  &quot;..getting eight attorneys to agree on language is sort of like  getting eight children to agree on pizza toppings...&quot;  He has a real  feel for the humor and insanity of VC-backed firms, but I think that  Bronson is on to something deeper.  He has captured a significant  transition from the glory-bound visionaries to a short-sighted greed-driven  model, musing that  &quot;..if it stops being fun, our creativity will  become formulaic and hackneyed.&quot;   Perhaps we won't recognize our loss  until after nudists are no longer tolerated on the late shift.<br />After  living through too many startups, I recognized a lot of reality here.  Bronson is right on with both the details and the spirit.  There is a  cultural change happening in the nature of startups that won't be  completely apparent until it is complete.  Then, maybe, we'll look back and  recognize the importance of this book.<br />If that's too profound, then think  of it as just a fun book from an engrossing story teller.	2000-02-22
US	52579911	R28L1CRYUTBYHL	1852605219	715667470	Tugs Today: Modern Vessels and Towing Techniques	Books	4	7	8	N	N	You don't have to be an enthusiast to enjoy this book	This book caught my eye in a Vancouver boat store, and I'm glad that I bought it.  Tugs are part of the unseen infrastructure that brings us food and cars--we don't take them for granted so much as ignore them completely.   This is unfortunate, because tugboats are a fascinatingly complex subject.   They are built-to-order, specialized for open water, harbor and river  service.  They push, they pull, and they put out fires.  This book assumes  no knowledge of the subject, making concepts such as towing and thrust  propulsion mechanisms accessible and interesting.   Well-illustrated,  well-written, and engrossing, I recommend this book for those who enjoy  boats of any kind, or are merely curious about how things work.	2000-02-21
US	52579911	R1KG43N2EH15FC	0679734155	564119257	The Pencil: A History of Design and Circumstance	Books	3	74	78	N	N	You couldn't ask for more information on this subject	Petroski is more than a little obsessive.  He has the ability to collect an astounding amount of information on truly arcane topics.   He is not necessarily the most riveting author, though.  It comes as no surprise to  see the number of engineers who rave over his books and the lack of  attention from non-engineers.<br />Personally, I dabble on the knife's edge  between the technical and non-technical, so perhaps that was why I was able  to read this book through.  I'm almost embarassed to admit to burning  curiousity about many issues associated with the pencil.  Why are they  yellow, why are they cedar, who was Eberhard (and does the name refer to  the longevity of the point?), and why don't old men sharpen them with  pocket knives any longer?<br />This book answered all of those questions and  more that I hadn't come close to anticipating.  While there is certainly  plenty of information to satisfy the curiousity of a pencil enthusiast, the  book brings a deeper level of meaning.  Performing such a a detailed  examination of a common product provides insight into human character and  economics.  It provides understanding of why businesses flourish or fail,  and how that affects the mundane details of our everyday  lives.<br />Certainly, anyone with an interest in the subject matter would be  entertained by this book--it is a veritable information orgy on the subject  of pencils.  However, I also recommend it to anyone with an interest in the  history of technology--how it develops, why product categories are made the  way they are, and how society appropriates these products and adapts itelf  to them.   &quot;Everyday Things&quot; was too boring to me to complete,  but I read &quot;Pencils&quot; cover to cover.   Perhaps there is more to  be learned through detailed research into one specific and common  technology than there is through the broad brush approach of  &quot;Things.&quot;	2000-02-21
US	52579911	R3PW3NQZ6PXWBO	0060974176	256728176	The Machine That Changed the World : The Story of Lean Production	Books	5	71	77	N	N	Excellent Business Book	I read this book while working for a major software firm--it was fascinating to me that Toyota could update their automobiles faster than  we could bring out a new operating system.   <br />This study of the world  automotive industry by a group of MIT academics reaches the radical  conclusion that the much vaunted Mercedes technicians are actually a  throwback to the pre-industrial age, while Toyota is far ahead in costs and  quality by building the automobiles correctly the first time.   The lesson  that it cost more to fix it than to build it correctly should be applicable  to a lot of industries--not just manufacturing.  The description of the  marketing information system that Toyota uses was very enlightening.   They  involve the entire company in generating marketing feedback. Even dealer  sales staff spend time working on the new product teams.  Trust me, very  few high-tech firms methodically collect feedback from their customers, and  none have a system this comprehensive.  <br />This is not just a book about  lean production--this is guidance in understanding how your business  operates and delivering good products that your customers want.	2000-02-21
US	52579911	R3K15IUMOC70YO	0029190908	525175097	Marketing Imagination, New, Expanded Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Classic text all marketers should own and highlight	This is a collection of classic Ted Levitt articles from &quot;Harvard Business Review.&quot;  This is where you go to understand the concept of `total product' or `whole product' used by both Moore &amp; Davidow in  their marketing books.  Those two authors, both of whom I recommend, are  more oriented to high-tech. Don't limit your reading by ignoring one of  their important influences.<br />I strongly recommend supplementing industry-  or market-specific books with Levitt's foundational classic.  Every Product  Manager and Engineering Manager should own this and read it.   Levitt is  mind expanding--once you've comprehended him, you realize that virtually  everything a company does is relevant to marketing.  Take its lessons to  heart.	2000-02-21
US	52579911	RO98W4A88QRQL	0380810433	608777897	Flyboy Action Figure Comes with Gasmask	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A quirky beginning from an author show shows promise	This is a quirky little novel, no doubt about it.  I think Munroe is a young writer who hasn't yet come into his full narrative voice--the potential is certainly there, but a few more years of maturity are needed  before 4 &amp; 5 star novels start appearing.  It reminds me of John  Irving's &quot;Setting Free the Bears,&quot; a much longer work that hasn't  been entertaining enough to me to justify my reading it through.<br />As  should be clear from the other reviews, Flyboy is about a college student  who has the ability to turn into a fly.  You would think that this  capability would open the possibility to some pretty interesting  situations--but it really doesn't.  Through cosmic coincidence that is  never explained, the hero meets and falls in love with a woman who turns  out to have super powers herself.  The source and ramifications of her  powers are even more mysterious.  Like the Irving book, this is about young  idealists who decide to tweak their collective noses at authority through a  relatively harmless, yet visible, symbolic act.  Munroe's book has so many  unfinished story lines that it almost seems as if a sequel were  planned.<br />Looking for works by Canadian authors, I picked this up in a  Chapters store during a visit to Toronto.  It was fun and I enjoyed it, but  a more experienced author would have made it more thought provoking.  A  psychologically-oriented reader will probably be able to draw some profound  connections between Flyboy's angstful search for his identity, recurring  questions about gender identification, and the overall transformation theme  of the story.  The hero's relationship with his roommates didn't seem  realistic, and the dialogue was a bit stilted and unbelievable--again, I  attribute this to inexperience.  <br />Readers closer to college age will  probably find this a more engrossing read, and I have difficulty  envisioning readers who matured before 1970 being able to relate to it at  all.  <br />For all its faults, it is a worthy first effort, and I look  forward to seeing Monroe's next work.	2000-02-21
US	52579911	R14KFK7UNG22UA	0425171698	272514083	The Victorian Internet: The Remarkable Story of the Telegraph and the Nineteenth Century's On-line Pioneers	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A must read for every high-tech Product Manager	The most effective way to demonstrate a parallelism is to describe the unfamiliar in such a way that its similarity to the familiar is obvious.  Standage's short but effective history of the telegraph's initial period of  rapid growth resonates with anyone even casually familiar with the  Internet.  Only in his concluding two-page epilogue does he feel the need  to explicitly draw a parallel between the telegraph and the Internet.   <br />This would still be a fascinating and thought-provoking book even  without the implicit comparison to today's expanding Internet  infrastructure.  The first use of electricity and wire for instantaneous  communication represented a quantum change in society, affecting the media,  government, and individuals.  Everything since then has just been a  refinement to that first revolution.  A less significant but amusing  factoid was that the young Tom Edison lived on huge amounts of weak coffee  and apple pie when pulling all-nighters to invent.  Its easy for the reader  to envision him as an early hacker, endangering his health with the 19th  century equivalent of Jolt Cola and Twinkies.  <br />This book is equally  enjoyable to anyone who enjoys the history of technology, and those who  have a more specific interest in the Internet and want to learn what  lessons a  historical high-tech boom can offer.	2000-02-01
US	52579911	RPI7LKGEF0315	0471290009	696781545	Intrusion Detection: Network Security Beyond the Firewall	Books	1	15	16	N	N	Buy the Northcutt book instead	This is just not a useful book. Half of the book is not about intrusion detection at all--it consists of an uninspiring general introduction to computer security.  <br />The author apparently has no actual experience in  the subject.  It is filled with innaccuracies.  Confusing 'hash value' with  'digital signature' is a common rookie mistake, but it is typical of the  inexcusable lack of precision in this text.  <br />Besides being misleading,  off-subject, and out-of-date, it is deadly boring.  If you want a hands-on  book, get the Northcutt text.  If you want an academic and useful  theoretical approach, get Amoroso's book.  If you want an introductory text  on information security, why would you buy a book on IDS?<br />It is apparent  that Wiley badly wanted to publish a book on intrusion detection, and the  author was all too willing to squeeze his existing square peg of a security  text into an ill-fitting IDS round hole.	2000-01-30
US	52579911	R126VMB0A0NJK2	0156005565	849027698	Catapult: Harry and I Build a Siege Weapon	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Everybody needs a hobby	I read this book when it first came out in 1991, which was before medieval siege weapons had become trendy.  When the crew on Northern Exposure launched a piano, I wondered if somebody had read Jim Paul's book.  When I  discovered that PBS was doing a special on trebuchets, I looked this book  up to see if it was still in print.  Paul must have influenced these other  experimenters.<br />This is a guy's book.  It is about a quest; the noble  search to do something completely useless and extravagent.  The journey is  the reward.  The book was educational, but that isn't its purpose--it  certainly isn't an instruction book for Society members looking for  accessories for their costume.  This is about doing something so old that  it is new, on a scale that seems impossible for two individuals.  This is  an adventure, and it was a privilege to share it with Jim and Harry.	2000-01-30
US	52579911	RUANPC8U7G0J8	0735708681	9385662	Network Intrusion Detection: An Analysts' Handbook	Books	4	62	63	N	Y	Best IDS book for hands-on implementors	Of the 3 available intrusion detection texts, this is by far the best for someone who actually wants to do intrusion detection.   It is breezy &amp; chatty--like sitting down with a good friend (unfortunately, one who  doesn't organize his thoughts very well and whose editor was apparently in  a hurry).<br />This is a bits &amp; bytes book; it assumes some knowledge of  TCP/IP and security concepts, but it accomodates non-specialists.  It is  useful for readers of varying levels of familiarity with Internet  protocols.  Northcutt provides an excellent introduction to the specific  mechanisms of the most common network attacks, and offers the most cogent  description I've seen of the [purported] Mitnick attack on Shimomura.<br />I  especially enjoyed his efforts at providing neophyte intrusion analysts  with political advice.  His insight that host-based IDS is technically  superior to network-based, but politically impractical is a gem of  organizational wisdom.	2000-01-30
US	52579911	R5QVSXDSYYJP4	0911382046	13927978	The Railroad: What It Is, What It Does	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Even my curiousity was satisfied	I'm the kind of person who wants to know why things are made the way they are.  This book kept me busy for hours.  It is incredibly comprehensive, and is a good read.  It explains technology choices (locomotives, cars,  track).  It explains how operations &amp; dispatch works, and it explains  how different signaling systems work.  It even delves into business and  ownership issues.   If you want a core dump of the rail transportation  business, get a copy of this book.	2000-01-30
US	52579911	R35GDMKDZ4BS0X	0151002673	76664834	Play for a Kingdom	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unique	18th Century historical fiction is becoming a popular genre, but this one breaks the mold.  A description cannot do it justice.  It suffices to say that Dyja interweaves the Civil War, espionage, and baseball in a  completely believable and engrossing way. It is moving, suspenseful and  exciting. A great story!	2000-01-30
US	52579911	RUDVX5YQNYTX1	0966670078	221483853	Intrusion Detection: An Introduction to Internet Surveillance, Correlation, Trace Back, Traps, and Response	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Good theoretical approach	This book is not intended as a practitioner's handbook--that is what Northcutt's book is for.  Amoroso's book is used as a text in his graduate classes.<br />If you want to understand the subject from a conceptual level,  this book succeeds admirably.  It is a bit dry, but acceptably so.  Given  that Amoroso has taught the subject several times, the organization is  logical.  The sources are extensive (although other academics who have  performed research in this area complain that several important references  are missing).<br />Don't expect to be able to build an intrusion detection  system after reading this book, but if you want an in-depth understanding  of the subject, you should probably read it.	2000-01-30
US	52579911	R32KXE5X4DCMTY	0500276161	113901441	In Search of the Indo-Europeans	Books	3	18	33	N	N	Not racist, just boring	The book takes a broad approach to an interesting but difficult subject.  It started out strong, but became progressively less interesting.  The discussion of language was very good, the discussion of homeland was  reasonable, and the archeology section at the end was death.  It's as if  the author just ran out of excitement.<br />To me, the book seems very uneven.   As a layperson, I found the linguistic argument compelling, and the  discussion of geography reasonably interesting, albeit a bit long.  The  discussion of archeological evidence is arcane and just not interesting to  someone unfamiliar with the terminology and minutae of pre-historic  European burial ritual.<br />This book might not be the ideal introduction to  this topic.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R3BYJD45MECODV	0375753052	221254919	Topper (Modern Library)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What man hasn't fallen in love with a ghost?	Absolutely delightful.  It's hard to believe that this was considered scandalous at the time--it certainly seems tame enough today. This modern era farce has a sweetness and innocence lacking in a post-modern era characterized by violence and overt sex. <br />Note that Smith uses an  interesting visual motif in this book that he did not use in  &quot;Gods&quot;.  Keep your 'eyes' open for it.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R2H49GFXT9C6IK	0962648345	775389707	For Pilots' Eyes Only: Confessions of a Pan Am Veteran	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not just for pilots	This is an enjoyable autobiography written by a Pan-Am aviator who began his career flying the DC-3 and retired after the introduction of the 747.  Wilson provides a pilot's perspective on the growth and changes in  commercial aviation made possible by advances in aircraft technology.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R1MSV74JO98PSN	0471121754	444612273	Disaster Recovery Planning: For Computers and Communication Resouces	Books	2	18	20	N	Y	Not much meat here	Comprehensive, yet superficial.  I learned a few interesting things, but the book doesn't really contain information on HOW to do anything--it is just ABOUT.   Misses the mark.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R29Q372KIJFGC2	1561580929	392172884	The Toolbox Book: A Craftsman's Guide to Tool Chests, Cabinets and S	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The toolbox is a tool, too	This is a beautiful book--attractive enough to be a coffee table book.  But it is much more than that.  It is informative and interesting.  It discusses the history of toolboxes, the different types of toolboxes, how  they are used, how they are constructed, and what they are made from.  The  author has found an amazing variety of fascinating toolboxes in use by  contemporary trades people.  Although perhaps not to the level of detail  that a novice would appreciate, Tolpin's book also includes plans,  instructions and construction techniques.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R2H3XDN6806M2K	0750699329	240319717	Security, ID Systems and Locks: The Book on Electronic Access Control	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Good enough	Hardly a literary masterpiece, but I found it useful and educational.  Information security specialists will be comfortable with the ideas and the approaches.<br />There is room for a more comprehensive book on this subject,  but this is a good start.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R14P200A8JSMH6	0316528587	546534474	The Fugitive Game: Online With Kevin Mitnick	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Every story has more than one side	The story of Kevin Mitnick from the journalist who claims to be closest to him.  A very different slant than the Shimomura/ Markoff book.  Maybe Kevin isn't so bad after all?  Maybe Shimomura deliberately trapped him just to  sell his story?  Why would a leading computer security expert leave the  r-services running on a host known to contain cool stuff, and have tripwire  running only as a logger, not as a filter, and furthermore, when the system  was so insecurely configured, why copy the logfiles to another system  automatically?  If I was building a honeypot, that's what I'd do.<br />This  book raises many questions about a strange episode that will probably never  be completely understood.  Unlike Shimomura, Littman makes compelling  arguments and gives the impression of being somewhat unbiased on the  subject of Mitnick.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R3AX0LBX7HV9TZ	0309054753	316789862	Cryptography's Role in Securing the Information Society	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not obsolete yet	Excellent overview of social &amp; organizational issues that affect use of encryption.  Some of the material is becoming quickly dated, but the chapters on &quot;Roles, Market &amp; Infrastructure,&quot; &quot;Crypto  Primer,&quot; &quot;Public Key Infrastructure,&quot; and  &quot;[Applicability of Encryption by] Industry&quot; will be useful for  years.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R3NM4IL9ACFU6R	0375753060	412870585	The Night Life of the Gods (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Not as good as &quot;Topper&quot;	Maybe it isn't fair to compare this to Smith's most popular work, but if I'd read this one first, I don't think I'd have picked up another one.  It lacks the charm and innocence of Topper.  Hawk is more cynical and  world-weary than Cosmo.  Nightlife is more daring, yet less effective. It  has a mean edge to it that isn't evident in Topper.  This book strains for  profundity and poignancy, not succeeding until the last page.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	RSX0A675ELIUZ	0805054383	141857175	The Bear Went Over the Mountain: A Novel (Owl Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wickedly funny allegory	A bear becomes a Wall St. maven, while an English professor takes over the bear's cave.  Hilarious commentary both on contemporary business practices and the ludicrous state of literary theory.  Here's an example of an NYU  professor critizing a Columbia rival: &quot;Penrod places too much emphasis  on the writer.  Any real study of contemporary literature begins with those  who teach it.&quot;   <br />Take that, Jonathon Culler!	2000-01-29
US	52579911	RSONKKGUJ2M16	0449906043	708463890	Karma Cola	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Useful &amp; entertaining	Humorous description of overseas visitors looking to India for spiritual enlightenment twenty years ago.  I read this while visiting Pune, India, location of Bhagavan Shri Rajnish's ashram, which made it even more  appropriate.  Very entertaining &amp; perceptive. <br />The book is not about  India--it is about Western misperception of India.	2000-01-29
US	52579911	R377QBTFXDFYF1	1558705120	310761866	Jim Tolpin's Table Saw Magic	Books	4	54	56	N	N	Tolpin's Tablesaw Tome is Topnotch Too	I enjoy Tolpin's books. Like his toolbox text, this reads well and has helpful photos and diagrams.  It covers purchase, setup &amp; maintenance, and common operations.  Even if your saw manufacturer had included a decent  manual, this book would be better.  Like Lonnie Bird's new Bandsaw Book,  this book represents a new generation of workshop guides--a worthy  successor to de Cristoforo's &quot;The Table Saw Book&quot;.  The language  and style is more appealing to a younger audience, and the use of modern  materials, such as mini-trac, is helpful.  Tolpin doesn't assume that the  reader will make all of their own fixtures from scratch.  He not only  provides complete instructions for making fixtures, such as cross-cutting  sleds and high-accuracy miter gauges, but he also gives equal time to  commercial equivalents. Providing helpful guidance on both commercial and  home-built accessories is a great approach--he does it in the setup section  also.  This enjoyable book won't spend much time on your shelf--it'll be  scuffed up &amp; dusty in your workshop where it belongs.	2000-01-28
US	52579911	R21T2LJLGE9O4N	0684859114	371330467	Damascus Gate	Books	3	4	7	N	N	More pretentious than profound	An intellectual thriller that dabbles in Jewish mysticism and syncretic exotica.  I found the ending disappointingly flat.	2000-01-08
US	52579911	R20BHHHB2LDG3M	1569471509	649148645	Making History	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Holden Caufield goes back to the future &amp; out of the closet	With a witty and even profound beginning, and an interesting premise for an alternate history, the story becomes increasingly tenuous and trivial as it accelerates towards its fairy tale ending.  Too much social  proselytizing can detract from an otherwise good story, and this book is no  exception.	1999-08-24
US	52579911	R2C56SM94G7DEQ	0471163783	433236510	Fighting Computer Crime: A New Framework for Protecting Information	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Mind-expanding book on information security	This book is probably too radical to be useful as study material for the CISSP, which tends to be mired in a traditional security practice concept that Parker characterizes as `alchemy.' <br />Obsoleting the common three  elements of security, confidentiality, integrity, and availability, the  fundamentals of his new framework of information security are availability,  utility, integrity, authenticity, confidentiality, and possession. <br />He  debunks a number of the tenets of computer security claiming early on that  there are &quot;no valid statistics on computer crime,&quot; stressing that  information security &quot;can never be a science,&quot; and warning that  &quot;starting with vulnerabilities is starting in the middle.&quot; He's  quite harsh in his indictment of numeric and financial threat analysis,  claiming that &quot;adopting baseline controls is a simpler, less  expensive, and more effective way to select security safeguards than risk  assessment.&quot; Parker has a very business-oriented and pragmatic  approach to security, and tries to suggest ways that security can help meet  business goals instead of conflicting with them. <br />I purchased the book on  a recommendation that I would find his comprehensive  threats/assets/vulnerabilities model of security useful. Within the  offenders sub-category, for instance, he breaks down the characteristics of  a computer criminal by skills, knowledge, resource availability, authority,  motivation, intent, and extremism. This represents a much more  sophisticated analysis of information attackers than the typical  hacker-criminal-spy spectrum that I usually describe. He's only lukewarm  towards the value of technical penetration testing and characterizes social  engineering demonstrations as misguided and harmful.<br />I hadn't realized it  when purchasing Fighting Computer Crime, but my introduction to the  concepts of computer security was through a copy of Parker's first book  that I read in 1980. As a consultant at SRI, he's been fighting computer  crime since the early 1960s. Although he is very oriented towards criminal  justice, which may be a turn-off to some, his approach to security is  holistic and multi-disciplinary. After hundreds of meetings with computer  criminals, he's developed a detailed understanding of how they behave, what  they do and how to protect information from them. <br />This is the most  mind-expanding book on computer security that I've ever read. While I don't  agree with Parker 100%, there isn't a lot that I could find fault with. I  find his arguments very compelling and I strongly recommend this book for  all computer security practitioners and those with responsibility for  information systems.	1999-07-20
US	52579911	R2GR3B4SAL96AG	0393033481	266324921	The End of an Era: The Last of the Great Lake Steamboats	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Beautiful photography &amp; interesting technical history	I love beautiful photography of machines and grew up watching the ore boats off of Cleveland. I couldn't resist buying it and I've enjoyed having it. This is a nice picture book and also has an interesting history of the development and demise of the uniquely configured Great Lakes ships.<br />Jay Heise	1997-09-01
