US	52579024	R1P2SOHGJV502W	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Superb!	For a plot description just scroll down a couple of reviews.<br />WHAT AN ENDING. I loved it. Brilliant!!!!!!! Read it for the last three pages. I nearly fell off the bed.<br />Did Briony atone? I think so. People having written here that it's for \\"the reader ro decide\\"...however...isn't it for her to decide? I think she thinks she did.	2003-05-30
US	52579024	R301VJQWZD2V7C	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	1	1	4	N	N	No Zero Star Rating? Bummer	I'm so thrilled to be able to write my review because it means that the book is over and I can now donate it to my local library. B-O-R-I-N-G.<br />Also, thank God, Jilly's plant Fred vanished somewhere in the chase. I guess Koontz's editors weren't all THAT bad.	2003-02-21
US	52579024	R18QUNWO6H73JO	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Headed for the Bargain Bin	Having worked in bookstores on and off for several years, I can say with some surety that \\"The Little Friend\\" will be on the bargain tables in no time...or at least it should. I seriously hope the publishers were wise enough not to print too many copies of this constipated disaster.<br />I'm glad Ms. Tartt knows how to use lots of adjectives when describing something as uninteresting as a blade of grass, but after around 60 pages of these never-ending sentences I was ready to whip out my red marker, call her editor and say, \\"What WERE you thinking?\\" Don't get me wrong, I love and appreciate a beautifully written sentence but most of Tartt's could benefit from the \\"less is more\\" theory.<br />Can you tell yet that I hated this book? (Well I did.) I ended up skimming a lot of the final 250 pages because I was curious to see who the murderer was. But then, after the final page, I was so pleased that I skimmed instead of actually laboring through the mess because the ending would have been even more insulting had I actually taken the time to savor every unnecessary word. I'm glad I borrowed it from my father instead of paying for it.<br />I will, however, strongly encourage people to buy and read \\"The Secret History\\" (also by Tartt). That book was amazing!! and it's a shame that TLF doesn't even come close.	2002-11-26
US	52579024	R12Y5SGNYBC825	0786862947	506506551	A Promise of Justice: The Eighteen-Year Fight to Save Four Innocent Men	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	They should've won the Pulitzer!	If you are a staunch supporter of the death penalty you may find yourself second guessing  your beliefs when you finish reading \\"A Promise of Justice\\". The travesty that befell the four men who were wrongly convicted of the rape and murder of a white couple is unspeakable. (The defendants were black which is a factor in the miscarriage of justice, due to an apparent racist police force and justice system.) Collectively, they  spent over 60 years of their young lives in prison and two of them were on death row. Not to get all religious on anyone, but I have to wonder why a loving God would allow something like this too happen. I guess there is an ultimate reason for everything and fortunately they are free men today, able to enjoy a beautiful sunset, sleep in a comfortable bed, and most importantly, be with their families.<br />Protess and Warden are excellent and VERY thorough investigative journalists. However, there were a few things that I didn't personally like about the book, which has nothing to do with their reporting abilities. The first was that it was written in the third person which is the way I was taught to report when I was in journalism school. (\\"Always remove yourself from the story,\\" my professor emphasized.) In this case, since it was a book and not a newspaper or magazine article, I would have preferred the authors include themselves more in the story...relaying their feelings and experiences on a personal level. I also wanted more first-person accounts from the defendants other than how they felt wronged and persecuted. Not to say that they shouldn't have felt this...to the contrary. But I was hoping to glean a little bit more about their personalities in their own words.<br />Aside from these two minor criticisms the book was great. As far as I'm concerned, Protess and Warden deserved the Pulitzer Prize for investigative journalism. They did an incredible service not only to these men but to our criminal justice system as a whole. BRAVO!	2001-10-05
US	52579024	R2VXS13W9MQJ2D	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Highly Informative Expose	Have you ever caught a whiff of a box of Crayola crayons or Silly Putty in your adult life and been mentally transported back to a moment in your childhood??? Well...McDonald's counts on their Happy Meals translating &quot;into frequent adult visits...&quot; because a person's food preferences are formed during the first few years of life. Therefore, if a kid loves Happy Meals the odds are they're going to keep coming back as they get older.<br />&quot;Fast Food Nation&quot; was a very interesting read, but hardly a page turner. Although some parts were very important toward painting an overall picture of the industry, there were many portions that I found a bit boring. I am not a huge fast food fan...I eat it, but rarely. After reading this book I will certainly think twice before driving through a McDonald's (substitute any other chain here) because after learning about how these companies exploit their workers I am hesitant to continue to support the industry.<br />&quot;Fast Food Nation&quot; covers all aspects of the business - not only what goes on behind the scenes at the restaurants. Schlosser takes the reader to the slaughterhouses, the potato plants, the flavor factories, through important historical governmental decisions, and into the homes and lives of the workers. I would recommend this book to anyone curious about our nation's most popular &quot;eating habit&quot;. But be prepared to lose your appetite in the process.	2001-09-27
US	52579024	R30VU7P5RPLVR5	0967414504	214085725	Whose Child? : An Adoptee's Healing Journey from Relinquishment through Reunion ... and Beyond	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful!	Imagine, if you will, not knowing who gave birth to you. Then imagine growing up in a household where you felt like an alien and had a brother that sexually abused you and a mother that emotionally abused you. Then imagine finding your birth mother and father, establishing a relationship with them, and then having them reject you all over again.<br />It's hard to imagine, huh? But this is what happened to Kasey Hamner who wrote this beautiful, sad, and bold memoir about her life.<br />As a 35-year-old adoptee, currently 6 months into a reunion with my birthmother, I related on so many levels to Hamner's heartbreaking, and sometimes joyous, emotional experiences. While my childhood was different and my reunion experience has been different, I still share many of the fears, joys, highs and lows that she went through. I especially related to her constant fear of abandonment when it comes to men, family members as well as friends. I am also several years in recovery from drugs and alcohol and used them pretty much for the same reasons that she did...as a way to numb these fears and take me completely out of myself. I recommend this book to all members of the adoption triad (adoptees, birth parents, and adoptive parents). It's an emotionally powerful and insightful book which took a lot of courage to write. And her positive outlook and acceptance of \\"life on life's terms\\" is truly inspiring. I look forward to Hamner's next book (if it's not already out yet...I have to check). If I could give this book 6 stars, I would!	2001-09-23
US	52579024	R27OZVLDU5SGN7	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Unique &amp; Captivating Story	I was immediately hooked into this novel and read it in one sitting. Kathy Hepinstall is an excellent storyteller and filled this book with diverse and realistic characters. While I didn't necessarily like them all as individuals they were each so well developed that I understood them all and therefore was able to tolerate their personal faults and sometimes quirky behavior. The plot moves swiftly along weaving a tale of suspense, intrigue, tragedy, some dark comedy and an amazing payoff. I know I'm really into a book when I start talking back to the characters that frustrate or irritate me - like one might do while watching a soap opera or the Jerry Springer show. And I found myself doing just that only to be snatched back to reality by my dog lifting her head thinking I was talking to her. &quot;The Absence of Nectar&quot; goes down as one of my top ten favorites of this year. (I generally read 100 plus books a year.) Don't pass it by...it will not disappoint!	2001-09-15
US	52579024	R3HO8UIJFJAADC	0425164543	642066528	Together Again	Books	1	3	4	N	Y	Fluff	I'm a 35-year-old adoptee that was reunited with my birthmother within the past year. I had spent over 15 years searching for her on my own and finally hired private investigators who came through for me after almost five years of waiting. (Fortunately, with them, you don't pay until THEY find!!!) Anyway, my reunion was more than I could have hoped for and am pleased to have a good relationship with my birthmother.<br />The stories in this book were very interesting but this book is hardly an in-depth, insightful look at the emotional roller coaster of search and reunion. I found it quite shallow when it came to dealing with the gut level feelings of the members of the adoption triad. All I can say is that these stories could have been condensed and published in Reader's Digest, which I also find skims the surface in their articles. I would not recommend this book at all as a major resource for searching adoptees or birthparents.... This was a real disappointment.	2001-09-09
US	52579024	RJ49XXSGQAECF	0805052038	725218718	Eight Months on Ghazzah Street: A Novel	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Dull Story - Interesting Cultural Study	This book had amazing potential to be a real page-turner but it failed miserably. The characters were not only shallow and uninteresting, but they were unlikable as well. I especially found it hard to like Fran's husband, whose unbelievable self-centeredness and arrogance angered me at every page.<br />After moving to Saudi Arabia for a job that he wanted, he proceeds to treat his wife almost as condescendingly as the Saudi's treat their own women. They move into a depressing housing complex where they have a depressing apartment and depressing neighbors who sit around drinking coffee and discussing cultural differences. These discussions were, in my opinion, the most interesting part of the book because they taught me about cultures I knew very little about.<br />Mantel attempts to bring intrigue and mystery to the story by introducing an empty apartment in the complex that is veiled in secrecy. Is it a love nest? Do illegal events take place there? Unfortunately, we never learn the whole truth and this in and of itself was VERY disappointing. It's like there was no payoff for trudging through this story.	2001-09-09
US	52579024	R3DDKR1KJU9340	0451202120	900704564	A Slow Burning	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Great Medical Thriller	I'm not the most patient person and therefore find it difficult, and at times irritating, to be strung along when it comes to revealing plot lines which was the main problem I had with &quot;A Slow Burning&quot;. Pottinger would introduce this mysterious storyline, only to make me wait until the last 10 pages to figure out what it all means. Now don't get me wrong...this can be a very effective way to keep a reader's attention. However, I found Pottinger's style of the &quot;string-along&quot; a bit unnecessary because there would have been no harm done had the plot unfolded without the waiting game. In other words, with some mysteries this technique works well, but with this book it didn't because the mystery lost it's intrigue by the time it was revealed. &quot;A Slow Burning&quot; is a great story. At times it was a bit &quot;Hollywood&quot; and unbelievable, but overall it held my interest from beginning to end. The possibility of the medical technology introduced in the book was fascinating. To be able to repair damaged brain cells and cure all kinds of neurological diseases was a remarkable and well thought out concept. It's obvious Pottinger did a lot of medical research while writing this book. I'm not going to get into a blow-by-blow of the plot in this review because everyone can read it in the above summary. I found the characters to be a bit shallow and their dialogue somewhat unreal and stilted, but aside from that it was an excellent book that I didn't want to put down. A great &quot;lazy-weekend&quot; or vacation read.	2001-08-25
US	52579024	R38NWINX0Y1X61	0385425767	977108653	Schoolgirls: Young Women, Self Esteem, and the Confidence Gap	Books	4	8	11	N	N	ATTN. Teachers: READ THIS!	While I could not personally relate to most of the experiences of the girls interviewed for this book I was not surprised that this kind of gender discrimination exists in our nation's learning institutions. Peggy Orenstein does a wonderful job illustrating the social anxieties and educational challenges facing middle-school girls from two racially and economically divergent schools in Northern California. It angered and saddened me to read about what these girls went through while trying to get an education. Hopefully this  book will open the eyes of educators nationwide so that some serious social changes can be implemented to better improve the way our children learn.<br />It would be interesting to see a follow-up of &quot;Schoolgirls&quot; and see what eventually became of these kids. After reading through these reviews, I was shocked to see how many unidentified &quot;readers&quot; gave the book one star because they felt that the boys were the ones being mistreated in this book. Come on people...the book is called &quot;SchoolGIRLS&quot; not &quot;SchoolBOYS&quot;.	2001-08-19
US	52579024	RILDRJOEC13GW	0399147845	384174271	What You Owe Me	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	Bland & Too Long	I have to preface this review by saying that Bebe Moore Campbell is one of my all-time favorite authors and I LOVED her other novels. But this is by far her worst. First of all there are too many subplots that are unnecessary to the the central story. Not to say that they aren't intriguing, however, she would have been better off leaving them out and using them as plots for another novel. While they do all somehow tie together, they don't tie together in a relevant way. The central plot is about the betrayal of a black woman named Hosanna who started a cosmetics company with a while, jewish woman named Gilda in the late 1940s. Gilda ends up disappearing and runs off with the money that they both earned and eventually builds a cosmetics empire of her own. Hosanna's anger and pain is passed down to her daughter Matriece who goes to work for Gilda and vows to eventually collect what was owed to her mother. If Campbell had focused solely on this theme, without delving off on tangents involving her relationships with her long lost father, or her relationship with her nephew and sister's family, I think the novel would have been better served. As I said, these subplots were interesting, but perhaps she could have saved them for another book, or perhaps a sequel to this one.<br />The characters were thin and stereotypical: the deadbeat dad; the famous, lonely and unhappy rock star; the son & daughter who feel overshadowed by their powerful father and mother, etc. This book could have be tighter by losing 200 pages. I hate to criticize any of Campbell's books because she is so talented. So on that note, I will HIGHLY recommend reading some her earlier works like \\"Your Blues Ain't Like Mine\\", \\"Brothers & Sisters\\", and \\"Singing in the Comeback Choir.\\" Those are GREAT books.  ...	2001-08-13
US	52579024	R12CQVGVG3C02J	0449213447	370928266	The Chosen	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Wonderful, Kindhearted Story	I read &quot;The Chosen&quot; in one sitting...something I haven't done in a long, long time. The book is a coming of age story about two Jewish teenagers, Reuven and Danny, who become best friends as a result of an accident during an interscholastic softball game. Danny is raised as a Hasidic Jew, while Reuven is raised as an Orthodox - a less strict sect of Judaism. Danny's father expects him to become a Rabbi but he wants to be a psychologist, and Reuven's father, who is much more liberal than Danny's father, would like him to be a mathematician, and he want to be a rabbi. The book explores the relationship between the two boys and their fathers. It is a story of contrasts, but at the same time is depicts how alike they all really are.<br />While the story is interesting and educational, I found the character's development stifled by Potok's inability to delve into their lives outside of a religious context. The story takes them through high school and college but we never get to know anything more about them then their relationships with their fathers, and the impact of their religious differences. But I guess that's the point of the book. I can't fault Potok for these limitations because he is an excellent writer and tells a great story. However, I wanted a bit more meat to the story. There are many wonderful themes in &quot;The Chosen&quot; and I highly recommend it to anyone in the mood for a clean-cut, &quot;G&quot; rated read.	2001-08-09
US	52579024	RFZIQSGOENQTQ	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Self-Involved Masterpiece	In an ad for Vintage books the plot of &quot;AHWOSG&quot; was written as this: ...&quot;a young man's account of raising his 8-year-old brother after their parents died just weeks apart.&quot;<br />I only wish that that was true. While Eggers does go into great detail about raising his brother, Toph, after his parents die there is much more to the book. Unfortunately, it's a lot of self-centered angst and humorous descriptions about the start and ultimate demise of &quot;Might&quot; magazine. While this is interesting and often entertaining, it is at times rambling and just plain boring. But maybe I sound too harsh...I mean, I did give the book four stars...and here's why...<br />Eggers in an incredibly entertaining writer. He is masterful at taking an ordinary, every-day, uneventful situation and make it colorful and amusing. The book follows no particular chronology, and at times I found myself flipping back several pages to see if I missed an important detail only to read it 30 pages later. This was annoying at first but after I caught on it didn't bother me...I actually liked the slow revelations. My main complaint was I wanted to read more about him and Toph. I LOVED the stories about their adventures together. They were heartwarming and beautifully written. Dave Eggers seems like an excellent &quot;guardian/brother&quot;. I wish my dad could have been more like him.	2001-08-01
US	52579024	R3L7E9D7TRRMGI	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not Just For Kids	I loved this book. I first read it when I was 13 and did not appreciate it at all. I'm now 35 and absorbed the story from an entirely different perspective. I LOVE dogs and have always been curious about pack animal behavior which &quot;Call of the Wild&quot; depicts in its truest form. My heart went out to Buck after he was dog-napped and thrown in a cage to be transported to his new &quot;owners.&quot; I kept picturing my dog going through the same ordeal, and I wondered if she would have responded like Buck did.<br />Having spent two years working for the Humane Society, I will say that this book is not for the faint of heart when it comes to reading detailed animal brutality. The description of Buck's being beaten into submission (literally) are heart wrenching.<br />This is a great story...rich in detail and emotion. I'm now reading &quot;White Fang,&quot; the companion book to &quot;Call of the Wild&quot; which London wrote three years later. &quot;White Fang&quot; is about a wild animal being tamed unlike this book which is about a tame animal becomming wild.	2001-07-20
US	52579024	R1TQSP3ZAVCY35	0060394072	745283847	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	3	9	15	N	N	An important historical book	Was &quot;American Terrorist&quot; the best work of non-fiction I've ever read? Hardly! Was it a page turner? I didn't think so...as a matter of fact I read the second half first and the first half second, skimming many pages that I found redundant. I think the authors did an excellent job journalistically. But this book is no &quot;All the President's Men&quot;. It gives the readers the facts in a straightforward yet bland manner. It made me angry, sad, confused and frustrated because to commit such a crime is something that I can't comprehend.<br />I read this book before the FBI screw-up and it was interesting to go back a re-read certain parts after the &quot;missing documents&quot; were found. &quot;American Terrorist&quot; is not for everyone, however I don't feel that the book in any way gives positive publicity to McVeigh, nor do I think the authors wrote it to make a buck.<br />Timothy McVeigh was executed this morning. He is now a historical figure. This book will also serve as a historical reference. Let's all go on with our lives and pray that nothing like this ever happens again.	2001-06-11
US	52579024	R3N8KSNAM5QOIY	0465056504	5320545	Adoption Nation: How The Adoption Revolution Is Transforming America	Books	2	23	34	N	N	Disappointed	As an adoptee who has searched for, found my birth family, and has had a positive reunion experience, I make it a point to read just about every book that comes out on the subject of adoption. &quot;Adoption Nation&quot; has some interesting information for prospective adoptive parents HOWEVER...I was shocked and disturbed by the authors reference to the fact that most adoptees adjust in today's society with few psychological repercussions. I have met and spoken with hundreds of adoptees over the past 15 years and most all of them have struggled with an identity crisis because they were lacking important historical and genetic information about themselves.<br />Being adopted is a very unique and often confusing experience. Not knowing where you came from and why you were given up can profoundly affect all areas of development from infancy through adulthood. The authors' casual attitude about these issues is WAY off the mark. It seemed to me that they were writing this book for adoptive parents, all the while making it seem that once their child comes home everything for the MOST part will be fine and dandy. Perhaps they should have spent more time addressing the possible issues that the adopted child will have to face because ultimately it's the adoptive parents that will struggle along with the child when these issues to pop up.<br />Irresponsible book.	2001-04-05
US	52579024	R1SB08C14ZOPA5	0553573497	782641067	Super Casino: Inside the "New" Las Vegas	Books	2	1	7	N	N	Blah!	I love Las Vegas and looked forward to reading this book to help me gain insight into how it all began, as well as how a modern Super Casino operates. However, I was a bit disappointed. The first half of the book which deals with the history of the Circus Circus corporation was interesting but it didn't grab me. I found myself skimming a lot of passages purely because I was just plain bored. Early is an excellent journalist and he does a thorough job of researching and reporting, but I still found the content a bit dull.<br />The second half of the book was more intriguing. It is filled with anecdotes about what goes on behind the scenes at the Luxor, one of the strips relatively new Super Casinos. Early interviews dealers, casino managers, and even prostitutes to help paint a picture of life within one of the most unique cities in the world. It was interesting to learn about casino security, how dealers operate and how the Luxor transformed itself into one of the most successful casinos on the strip. But with all that said, it still wasn't the greatest read of all time. If you're fascinated by Las Vegas and actually care about these things, read this book. If not, you'll probably be bored.	2001-02-26
US	52579024	REP6I89KI6TVR	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Just OK...	I usually write my reviews immediately after finishing a book so the story is still fresh in my mind. I finished this book a week ago and since I've already forgotten some of the major plot points I guess I can say I didn't think it was an &quot;amazing&quot; read. The plots of amazing books usually don't slip my mind within a week. Anyway, on to the review...<br />&quot;Drowning Ruth&quot; is a disturbing tale of woman named Amanda who is left to raise her niece Ruth due to the fact that her sister Mattie drowned when Ruth was just a baby. Amanda's character is somewhat emotionally disturbed because she never completely recovered from witnessing Mattie's tragic death. (The story takes place in 1919 and they didn't have Prozac or pop psychology books back then.)<br />The story was somewhat confusing to me because it jumped back and forth chronologically and I had to keep flipping back to remember what had already taken place. I don't particularly like this style of writing. Each chapter is written from a different character's perspective which also added to my confusion. I think the book would have been a smoother read if it were written from just Amanda's point of view. However, the story is gripping and flowed nicely because as the mystery of the drowning unfolds the subplots are interesting and all of the characters are very well developed. This is an excellent FIRST novel. I'm sure we'll see more of Christina Schwartz in the years to come and I only hope her next book is a bit less scattered.	2001-01-27
US	52579024	R1ZB803VXGB8KI	0375503382	861292414	The Secret Parts of Fortune: Three Decades of Intense Investigations and Edgy Enthusiasms	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	Very Dense	I had never read Ron Rosenbaum before I purchased this book and while I don't love everything I've read so far, I do have a great deal of respect for Rosenbaum as a journalist. To put it simply: he's brilliant. It's so refreshing to read his work. He's one of the best journalists I've ever read and am so glad that amazon brought him to my attention.<br />My problem with the book was that many of his essays just didn't grab me. The synopsis described several topics which I was sure would interest me but when I actually read them I found the writing style a bit dense and bogged down. I don't ever expect to like everything I read in collections. I particularly liked &quot;The Great Ivy League Nude Posture Photo Scandal,&quot; as well as &quot;Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer Hoax.&quot; This is the kind of compilation which I would not recommend attempting to read in one sitting. Smaller portions worked best for me. This is a wonderful collection of Rosenbaum's work, and while I haven't read them all yet, so far, so good.	2001-01-12
US	52579024	R1HLH7T9NTO9E3	0385315848	350681739	Looking for a Fight	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	An Inspiring Read	I have to admit that when I pre-ordered this book from Amazon several months ago I was afraid that I would be bored by a memoir about boxing. I mean as far a sports go, boxing is WAY DOWN on my list of favorites. The concept of two people getting into a ring and punching each other until one falls down on death's door is less than appealing. However, Snowden is of one of my favorite female authors and I LOVED her previous book &quot;Nine Lives, which, by the way, I would HIGHLY recommend  purchasing. I've also read dozens of her magazine articles over the years and think she's an incredible journalist. Therefore, I had to order this book, no matter what the subject matter because I'm definitely a loyal fan.<br />As it turns out I LOVED this book, subject matter aside. Not only did I find her courage and dedication inspiring, but I also learned a lot about boxing and am actually looking forward to watching the next fight that airs on HBO.<br />Snowden entered the boxing world after a bitter and painful divorce seeking an outlet for her bottled-up pain and anger that accompanied the separation. &quot;Looking for a Fight&quot; is a memoir about her 10 month experience which was both emotionally and physically brutal, yet exhilarating and spiritually uplifting. I found myself literally squirming during the scenes where she gets punched in the ribs and socked in the nose, to the point where she had globs of blood hanging out of each nostril. What amazed and inspired me was that she stuck it out and kept coming back for more. But she didn't come back in a masochistic way, she came back because she wanted to achieve her personal best. And she did. But she also knew when it was time to quit.<br />Snowden's trainer was an interesting and evasive man named Hector whose professional ethics, were not very professional in the beginning of their relationship when he made an uninvited sexual pass at Snowden during a trip to Atlantic City for a boxing match. But on the positive side, I could immediately feel his remorse as he made a complete professional turnaround.  Overall he turned out to be an outstanding trainer. He is the type of trainer I would want to have because he is both tough yet gentle. Hector is not one to easily offer praise so when he did dish it out he genuinely meant every word. His respect and admiration for Snowden grew as the months went by and I could tell he really cared for her as a boxer and as a *non-sexual* person.<br />Snowden is an excellent writer who doesn't waste words. The story is well paced and expresses a variety of emotions, a great sense of humor, insightful wisdom, strong ethics and incredible sensitivity and awareness to those around her. I highly recommend this book to anyone who has always wanted to achieve a goal but has never had the courage to go for it, or, to someone who is struggling with the willingness to persevere through a tough, challenging situation. But all of that aside, I simply recommend this book to ANYONE because it's an excellent, thought-provoking, well written book. Five stars and &quot;two-gloves up!&quot;de, I could immediately feel his remorse as he made a complete professional turnaround.  Overall he turned out to be an outstanding trainer. He is the type of trainer I would want to have because he is both tough yet gentle. Hector is not one to easily offer praise so when he did dish it out he genuinely meant every word. His respect and admiration for Snowden grew as the months went by and I could tell he really cared for her as a boxer and as a *non-sexual* person.<br />Snowden is an excellent writer who doesn't waste words. The story is well paced and expresses a variety of emotions, a great sense of humor, insightful wisdom, strong ethics and incredible sensitivity and awareness to those around her. I highly recommend this book to anyone who has always wanted to achieve a goal but has never had the courage to go for it, or, to someone who is struggling with the willingness to persevere through a tough, challenging situation. But all of that aside, I simply recommend this book to ANYONE because it's an excellent, thought-provoking, well written book. Five stars and &quot;two-gloves up!&quot;	2000-12-21
US	52579024	R3DY6578AATIXJ	0395939186	753005234	The Best American Mystery Stories 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Some Really Great Stories	I would have easily given this compilation five stars if I were able to make it through every single story. But unfortunately there were three which I could not finish. They bored me to death!! For the most part though, the majority were excellent mysteries written by many authors I had never even heard of but will now seek out in bookstores. Some of the gems are &quot;Motel 66,&quot; by Barbara D'Amato, &quot;The Defenstration of Aba Sid,&quot; by Robert Girardi, &quot;ICU,&quot; by Edward Lee, and &quot;Wrong Numbers,&quot; by Josh Pryor. This should be a definite read for all mystery fans.	2000-11-02
US	52579024	R26BQVQ2PWWRDV	0375503757	855545205	What She Saw...: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Wonderful First Novel	&quot;What She Saw&quot; is a lighthearted, humorous novel about a woman named Phoebe Fine who introduces the reader to all of the important men in her life. She does this in chronological order so we begin with Phoebe's first crush, moving on to a first kiss, and so on....I identified with so many of Phoebe's experiences that I began highlighting passages that were similar to to my own life experiences and the result was both depressing and reassuring at the same time.<br />Phoebe's character is believable because she is flawed, just as we all are. Readers will most likely relate to her humanness which makes the book all the more readable. Rosenfeld writes with just the right amount of emotion, irony, humor and in-depth characterization. Each man Phoebe dates represents her own personal growth and maturity. There are two wonderfully stylistic chapters, &quot;What She saw in Anonymous,&quot; and &quot;What She Saw in No One&quot; that are like a musical-montage-growth- spurt. In these chapters Rosenfeld strings together Phoebe's raw emotions regarding her then promiscuous sex life. There were a couple of chapters I didn't like because I felt they were disjointed and broke-up what could have been a perfect flow.<br />This book is definitely worth reading. I can't imagine any woman not being able to identify with Phoebe's experiences. Whip out the highlighter while you're at it!!!	2000-10-19
US	52579024	R18WZ8QA9G7B4D	0385720211	517893800	In the Drink: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Excellent First Novel	Bravo, Kate Christensen!  What a wonderful first novel...I can't wait for a follow-up.<br />&quot;In the Drink&quot; is the story of a 20 something single woman named Claudia Steiner. She lives in your typical roach-infested Manhattan apartment, works for a complete passive-aggresive nut case, dates the wrong men, and is madly in love with the &quot;Unavailable-Man.&quot; There were many times throughout the novel when I wanted to shake Claudia and tell her to wake-up and change her miserable existence. But the beauty of the book is that Claudia IS flawed just like we all are. There is no &quot;tied-up in a pretty bow&quot; ending. Claudia plods through her life making the same mistakes over and over again and expecting different results. But Christensen always kept me believing that Claudia would turn out OK. And even though the ending is not &quot;happy&quot; I had a gut feeling that when Claudia finally hits her bottom she has the inner strength to pull herself out of it and end up on the right track. This is what kept me going.<br />While &quot;In the Drink&quot; is a dark story, Christensen has an amazing sense of humor and writes some of the funniest scenes I've read in a long time. Her affair with the married John Threadgill is hilarious, as is a party scene at the apartment of her &quot;crush,&quot; William. I so identified with Claudia because there was a period of my life where I WAS her. But fortunately, I pulled myself out of it as I believe Claudia will. Another wonderful part of the book is examining Claudia's relationship with her mother. How many of us have been at a restaurant with our mothers and been pressured into ordering what SHE wanted us to eat?  I've been there!  There are some things Claudia does that I don't necessarily approve of. Obviously stealing from my boss and forging her checks is not a behavior I'd care to emulate. But when Claudia does it, it's OK because I felt she was remorseful. That doesn't make it right but it does humanize her.<br />I've read in many reviews references to &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary&quot; and I think this book is hands down ten times better than &quot;Bridget&quot; simply because the characters are real and are dealing with their lives on a level that Bridget doesn't. I've also read in reviews that people think Claudia is a loser and hated the book becuase of that. Well, in a way I suppose she is a &quot;loser&quot;, but a temporary loser, and who among us hasn't been a loser at one point in life?  If you're a woman in your 20s or 30s DEFINITELY read this book. You won't be sorry.her.<br />I've read in many reviews references to &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary&quot; and I think this book is hands down ten times better than &quot;Bridget&quot; simply because the characters are real and are dealing with their lives on a level that Bridget doesn't. I've also read in reviews that people think Claudia is a loser and hated the book becuase of that. Well, in a way I suppose she is a &quot;loser&quot;, but a temporary loser, and who among us hasn't been a loser at one point in life?  If you're a woman in your 20s or 30s DEFINITELY read this book. You won't be sorry.	2000-10-18
US	52579024	RRFSBOO213FI2	0425155404	875458447	Invasion	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Really, Really Bad!	TERRIBLE!! THE WORST!! BORING!!! RIDICULOUS!!!<br />Now....would you like me to tell you how I really feel?? OK...All of the above. However, Robin Cook has written some excellent books, (&quot;Vital Signs,&quot; &quot;Fatal Cure,&quot; &quot;Acceptable Risk&quot;) but &quot;Invasion&quot; was sadly not one of them.<br />This is the story of an alien spaceship that comes to earth and drops off these little black disks. If you hold the disks in your hand you'll get pinpricked and injected with a strain of the influenza virus. And then you'll get really sick for several hours. But then you'll get better and suddenly gain a interest in environmental causes. And then you'll find that people all around you are experiencing the same symptoms. And finally, you'll slowly morph into an alien-like-creature -  scaled skin and all!.<br />Now don't get me wrong....I personally don't have anything against science fiction/alien-type-stories. But this book was worse than any &quot;X-Files&quot; story line that was ever written and produced, The plot has so many holes and the characters are underdeveloped and bland. But worst of all the story was totally predictable. So formula. There were one or two mildly interesting plot twists but they were overshadowed by the implausibility of it all. If this were the ONLY book available at an airport before a long flight I'd rather daydream or watch the in-flight movie.	2000-10-13
US	52579024	R19LYKFJV8J4Q5	0060194790	617082594	Waiting : The True Confessions of a Waitress	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Wonderful, Fast-paced, &amp; Enlightening	&quot;Waiting: The True Confessions of a Waitress&quot; is a highly entertaining, fast-paced book about Debra Ginsberg's real-life experiences as a food server. She tells wonderful heartfelt stories about waiting tables in places ranging from a dining room/country club environment, to a cocktail lounge setting, to a upscale Italian eatery while keeping me laughing out loud and cringing simultaneously. I never thought that working as a waitress was an easy job (I've never actually done it) but after reading this book I can say for sure that it's definitely not a field I'll be tackling any time soon.<br />Ginsberg delves even deeper than just your run-of-the-mill waitressing antics (E.G.: hair in soup, rude customers, bad tips, etc.) She actually takes a look at waitressing from a sociological perspective and she does so with both intelligence and charm. For Ginsberg, waiting tables was a career, one which she struggled with because she constantly felt like she should &quot;do something with her life&quot; and &quot;get a real job.&quot; So she did. But the money from waitressing was just too good. Her tips were essential in the raising of her son as a single parent. And waitressing also allowed her to spend quality time with her son when her &quot;real job&quot; kept them apart more than both of them were comfortable. I was proud of her for coming to that realization and going back to waitressing after giving the real job a shot.<br />Unfortunately, there is such a negative stigma attached to waiting tables while it really shouldn't be anything to be ashamed of. The physical and psychological aspects of the job are grueling and make for a tough job even in the best of conditions. I applaud anyone who can work like that at night and then manage to wake up, raise a child and stay focused on writing the next day. That sounds like three full-time jobs to me and I personally couldn't wing it. Three cheers for Debra!  I eagerly await her next book.	2000-10-07
US	52579024	R2UKNQAU43PW6U	0525945121	293422350	Chang and Eng: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A wonderful yet disturbing read	&quot;Chang &amp; Eng&quot; is a beautifully written book, but I also found it a rather disturbing read. I could not help but over identify with Eng's desire to be separate. If it's possible to feel claustrophobic while reading that's what I experienced. I kept visualizing ripping the twins apart primarily because I find it so inconceivable to live a happy life like that. While it's nice that they got married, had a large family and became successful farmers, the freak show scenes made me incredibly sad. I also had a problem with the &quot;historical fiction&quot; aspect. I wanted to know the truth...what REALLY happened to them. But we'll never know and I found that frustrating. Strauss is an EXCELLENT writer and he does an incredible job of making their story real. But for some reason, I just couldn't get past the fact that it wasn't. I guess I personalized this book a bit too much.	2000-10-04
US	52579024	R1KRNSR3UL0PK5	0316154067	559013514	Void Moon	Books	1	17	28	N	N	What A Disappointment!	I love Michael Connelly's books most all of the time...his Harry Bosch mysteries are wonderful. But this nightmare is the worst Connelly book I've read, let alone being one of the worst books I've read, period!  What a mess!  None of the characters are likable so it was tough for me to decide who I wanted to see killed- off at the end. These people have no morals or integrity. It's really sad that Connelly makes Cassie Black, the main character, a hero of sorts. This screwed up woman is willing to kidnap her own child and shoot people at random as a way of working through her anger and sadness at getting arrested six years before and losing her lover and child in the process. The book started out with promise, but as it progressed one mess just turned into another unbelievable mess, and so on....and so on....and so on.... &quot;Void Moon&quot; reads like a bad made-for-tv movie. It's so predictable and the storyline is absurd. Don't bother with this one. If you want GREAT Connelly read &quot;The Poet&quot; or &quot;Angel's Flight.&quot;	2000-10-04
US	52579024	R4SYYZQFSY69G	0525945121	293422350	Chang and Eng: A Novel	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A wonderful yet disturbing read	&quot;Chang &amp; Eng&quot; is a beautifully written book, but I also found it a rather disturbing read. I could not help but over identify with Eng's desire to be separate. If it's possible to feel claustrophobic while reading that's what I experienced. I kept visualizing ripping the twins apart primarily because I find it so inconceivable to live a happy life like that. While it's nice that they got married, had a large family and became successful farmers, the freak show scenes made me incredibly sad. I also had a problem with the &quot;historical fiction&quot; aspect. I wanted to know the truth...what REALLY happened to them. But we'll never know and I found that frustrating. Strauss is an EXCELLENT writer and he does an incredible job of making their story real. But for some reason, I just couldn't get past the fact that it wasn't. I guess I personalized this book a bit too much.	2000-10-04
US	52579024	R22U35O1NIGPU6	0679721827	687597039	The Fifth Child	Books	5	18	24	N	N	A Moving Story	This book is a disturbing and sad look at what happens to &quot;the perfect family&quot; when their fifth child is born. His name is Ben and he has serious emotional and developmental problems. He was hyperactive and full of rage while he was in the womb (causing his mother a great deal of physical pain during her pregnancy) and once he was born he continued to vent his rage at the world. The book really made me think about how I would handle a similar situation with my own family. Do you institutionalize or not? Do you go from doctor to doctor and find the right medication, or, do you sit back and do the best you can with what you emotionally have to offer?? I haven't read the sequel yet but I plan to. This book is wonderfully written and very moving. It continued to haunt me for days after I put it down. While there were some flaws with the character development (or LACK of development,) it was overall an excellent read.	2000-09-28
US	52579024	R2CGN94XBPI65B	0060920076	388683066	Affliction	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Wonderful, Haunting Novel	This is my first Russell Banks novel and I'm so glad that I discovered  him!!! &quot;Affliction&quot; is a wonderful, incredibly written story  about a man named Wade Whitehouse whose character is like a slow burning  stick of dynamite. And the &quot;boom&quot; and the end of the novel does  not disappoint...(even thought it did confuse me, but more on that  later.)<br />I thought the beginning of the book was very slow and I almost  put it down around the 5th or 6th chapter. But the writing was so beautiful  I figured it had to get better, which it did and eventually had me hanging  on until the very last word. I'm not going to give a synopsis of the book  because you can read that at the top of this page. But here's why I loved  it: the character development is outstanding; they are SO real that at the  end of the book I was sad to lose them. Once the story gets going it  unfolds with just the right amount of intrigue. Banks bounces back and  forth from the present day to the past in a way that helps the reader  understand why the characters are who they are. The book covers a variety  of themes including romance, murder, death, domestic violence, fatherhood  and &quot;small town sensibilities.&quot; This is NOT an uplifting novel AT  ALL. If you're looking for a happy ending this is not for you. When Wade  Whitehouse disappears, everyone who crossed his path is left confused, hurt  and angry. There were several times I put down the book (because I had to  leave for work, or walk the dogs) and I felt haunted and slightly disturbed  and the feeling lasted for several minutes until I got back into the rhythm  of my day. THAT to me equals outstanding writing. I wish I felt that way  every time I put down a book. (Although not necessarily disturbed and  haunted...but I think you get what I mean.)<br />I did have a couple of  problems with &quot;Affliction&quot;...as I said it was a slow start. The  book is written from the perspective of Wade's brother Rolfe and at times I  wondered how he knew exactly what a character might have been feeling or  thinking at any given moment. I know he tape recorded his interviews with  everyone but still....it seemed to be reaching at times. Banks tends to go  on and on about the scenery and the weather and these lengthy descriptions  tended to slow the pace and added nothing. The ending (which I won't ruin)  had me wondering how Rolfe knew how the murder was committed and I'm going  to have to go back and re-read it...perhaps I missed something, but I think  not.<br />I can't wait for read more of Russell Banks. And I also can't wait  to go out and rent the video tomorrow.mes I  wondered how he knew exactly what a character might have been feeling or  thinking at any given moment. I know he tape recorded his interviews with  everyone but still....it seemed to be reaching at times. Banks tends to go  on and on about the scenery and the weather and these lengthy descriptions  tended to slow the pace and added nothing. The ending (which I won't ruin)  had me wondering how Rolfe knew how the murder was committed and I'm going  to have to go back and re-read it...perhaps I missed something, but I think  not.<br />I can't wait for read more of Russell Banks. And I also can't wait  to go out and rent the video tomorrow.	2000-09-06
US	52579024	R2TTHMQCWVAT0C	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Thoroughly Entertaining!	I've read everything A.M. Homes has written and found this book to be one of her best. My all-time favorite is &quot;The Safety of Objects&quot;  (short stories) and &quot;Music for Torching&quot; was a wonderful read. I  loved just about everything about the book: the characters were wonderful,  interesting and believable, the plot was engaging and perfectly paced, and  Homes' dark humor had me laughing out loud. But her characters are also  very sad and I could totally relate to Elaine's need for self-discovery.  Here was the only flaw: Elaine's sexual liaison with the cop just didn't  need to happen. That's why I gave the book four stars instead of five. It  added nothing to the story and I found it a bit gratuitous. Even with all  of their flaws I loved Paul and Elaine and felt sad when the book ended  because I wanted to keep them around like old friends. In a weird way I  wanted to continue with them on their tragic journey. As far as I'm  concerned, A.M. Homes is one of the shining stars of contemporary fiction.  Her writing is always original and brilliant!  Good job!	2000-08-29
US	52579024	R1797B2I4XP31U	0446606243	58879561	The Tenth Justice	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	A Great Mystery	Brad Meltzer has written a solid, suspenseful, page turner that was well worth my time. While I had some problems with the plot development he did a  great job of keeping me guessing. There were several excellent twists and  the ending did not disappoint. Ben's sexual relationship with Lisa was  predictable and their banter was at times corny and embarrassing. The  relationship should have been kept strictly professional because the sex  angle did nothing to enhance the plot. I knew the second they met that they  would become more than just friends. I loved the relationships between the  roommates. Meltzer had be guessing who was betraying Ben right up until the  end.<br />Overall and excellent first book!  I look forward to reading more  of Meltzer's work in the future.	2000-08-29
US	52579024	R39MJ6YLUOLU3O	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	108	118	N	N	Awesome Book!	I could not put this book down!  &quot;White Oleander&quot; was wonderful from the very first sentence to the very last and I have Oprah to thank for  bringing author Janet Fitch to my attention. The story is narrated by  Astrid - a teenage girl - who suffers through years of living in the foster  care system while her mother Ingrid serves a life sentence for murdering  her ex-lover. (I can just envision a younger Angelina Jolie-type playing  the role of Astrid in the film version.) Each family that Astrid lives with  has its own unique (yet sometimes cliched) cast of characters that are  instrumental in shaping and transforming the young woman she becomes. This  is a novel of self discovery the hard way. I personally cannot imagine the  loneliness and terror that Astrid experienced while bouncing from home to  home to home.  Ingrid stays present in Astrid's unstable life through  letters and occasional visits and their strained relationship is key to  Astrid's development. The character are so real, the writing style is  beautiful, the plot moves swiftly and the story weaves the reader through  every human emotion possible. While I'm not a fan of the Oprah Winfrey  show, I am a fan of her book club and this novel ranks up there as one of  her best picks.	2000-08-09
US	52579024	R2UVAALH51FBPI	0684865637	919570880	Blind Eye: The Terrifying Story Of A Doctor Who Got Away With Murder	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Gripping Page-Turner	&quot;Blind Eye&quot; is a very disturbing book. There were several times throughout the book that my stomach was literally in knots due to the overwhelming revulsion and shock that a man like Swango might become a free  man this month and return as a member of our society. This is a man who  upon his release from prison would most likely have no problem poisoning  other individuals that he just doesn't like. Or even poison individuals he  doesn't know, just because he can.<br />I've read all 62 reviews and what I  find most interesting is that one of Stewart's themes in the book is how  doctors protect their fellow doctors. Of these 62 reviews many of the  one-star ratings are posted by individuals who work in the medical field,  or are doctors themselves. The five-star reviews are mostly written by  people that have no professional relationship to medicine. OBVIOUSLY  Swango's situation is unique, and OBVIOUSLY not all hospitals cover-up  their internal indiscretions. But what some reviewers seem to be missing is  that the point of this book is not to slander the medical industry.  &quot;Blind Eye&quot; is the story of a serial killer who happens to be a  doctor. While it's unfortunate that several hospitals acted irresponsibly,  hopefully this book will open the eyes of administrators who might  implement stronger screening guideline and more honest investigations of  internal affairs.<br />While I did not &quot;enjoy&quot; reading this book, I  found it an incredible piece of investigative journalism. Stewart is an  excellent writer and this is a very important book.	2000-07-05
US	52579024	R15335G3KWV7EE	0452281369	36292242	Clara: The Story of the Pug Who Ruled my Life	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Pug Owner &amp; Kaufman Fan	I was very saddened to hear that Margo Kaufman passed away two months ago from cancer. I so LOVED this book and was looking forward to &quot;Clara: The Later Years.&quot; After I heard about her death, all I could think  was: &quot;Poor Clara!  She must miss her terribly.&quot;<br />I'm a Pug  owner and really identified with Clara's antics. Kaufman &quot;speaks&quot;  for Clara in a wonderfully, humorous way. Pugs truly are the clowns of the  dog world and Clara seems to be no exception.<br />The book is also about the  adoption of Kaufman's son. Her endless piles of paperwork and the adoption  forms she had to process is beautifully interwoven with Clara's sensing  that there's a change coming. Kaufman makes even the toughest, heart  wrenching situations incredibly funny. Her trip to Russia to pick up her  son was artfully written. I almost wished Clara had gone along on that trip  because it would have made the journey even more humorous than it already  was.<br />I would HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone who wants to laugh out  loud. You don't even have to like Pugs to enjoy Clara's adventures. I would  especially recommend this book to anyone pursuing a foreign adoption. The  red tape that Kaufman had to go through was astounding to me.<br />Again, I  was so sad to hear about her death, especially because she left behind the  son that she spent a year trying to adopt. She will be missed!  Not only  by Clara, her husband and her son Nicholas, but by the thousands of readers  that enjoy her wonderful sense of humor.	2000-06-12
US	52579024	R2F14769404QR2	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	95	107	N	N	A Gripping Read	Sue Miller is among my favorite authors and I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Her incredible storytelling and attention to detail made me feel a part of Jo &amp; Daniel's family. I identified with many of Jo's emotions  about marriage, middle-age, and family bonds, yet the amazing thing is, I'm  single, 34-years-old, and don't have, nor desire to have, any children. The  one thing Jo and I did have in common was animals -- I work at an animal  shelter and loved the fact her character was a vet.<br />I did have some  problems with the book, though. I liked the pacing in the beginning when  Miller went back to Jo's days in the Cambridge house. Her description of  the closeness amongst the house members was similar to my Boston college  experience. I spent my sophmore year living that lifestyle of casual sex,  drugs and late-night &quot;house talks.&quot; But after Dana's murder the  book dragged on a bit. While I was interested in Jo's family life with  Daniel and the girls, I felt that the middle of the book broke the momentum  that Miller had going in the beginning.  This was frustrating and while I  understand her reasons for slowing down I couldn't wait for the chapters  where Jo &amp; Eli would come together. Daniel's response to Jo's  revelation about her meeting with Eli was frustrating too because I felt  that his character would have made the effort to sort through things much  more quickly. Their long-term distance from one another almost seemed out  of character on both of their parts.<br />I will definitely continue to read  Sue Miller's books. She is a truly gifted writer that captures whatever  moment she is attempting to portray. Great book!	2000-05-31
US	52579024	RAY80VHF9EJJP	0449005429	955609368	Fighting Back: A Battered Woman's Desperate Struggle to Survive	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Excellent Read	&quot;Fighting Back&quot; is a sad and disturbing read. It's the devastating story of a woman's battle with her violent, disgusting husband. But it's also a battle with herself. Due to unfortunte childhood  circumstances, June Briand was molded into a victim who became trapped in a  grotesquely abusive marriage with a dangerous and insecure man. Many people  may say, &quot;Well she should of just left him.&quot; But after reading  this book you will hopefully gain a better understanding of why it is so  difficult to simply walk.<br />The story is well written, well paced and  deeply moving. I cried with June in the beginning and cheered for her at  the end. I highly recommend this book.	2000-05-17
US	52579024	R2P9QVCWDFUP5N	0671797263	25504732	A Dog Is Listening: The Way Some of Our Closest Friends View Us	Books	2	9	17	N	Y	Disappointed!	First of all, the title is deceiving. &quot;...The Way Some of Our Closest Friends View Us&quot; was what attracted me to the book. Unfortunately, I found very little information about the way my dogs might view me. Caras covers more than just the &quot;sight&quot; sense. This book was a bit too  academic and historical for my tastes. I wished there were more anecdotes  and/or behavioral information. The pictures and photos were randomly  scattered around and many of them didn't have captions.<br />While the  history of dogs/wolves is interesting, it's not what I paid for.	2000-05-03
US	52579024	R38DGAXRGK0GRB	0553102354	762287509	In Pursuit of the Proper Sinner	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Frustrating Read!	This was my first Elizabeth George mystery and will most likelybe my last...<br />George is an excellent writer but she's a bit wordyfor my liking. Not that I don't appreciate detailed description andlengthy character development, but it took me almost 250 pages to get hooked. There have only been two books I haven't finished reading in my entire life, so I guess you can say I'm hard pressed to give up once I've started. I almost put this one down around page 170 but fortunately I forged ahead. Once I got hooked, I was HOOKED. I couldn't wait to find out whodunit and was not disappointed by the ending.  The main problem I had was that I just didn't like the two main characters.  Lynley's unwillingness to forgive Havers was extremely irritating. And Havers being the &quot;good soldier&quot; and not sitting him down and questioning his bad attitude was frustrating too. I mean if these two had worked together for so many years, you'd think they'd both be mature enough to talk it out. George just drags out their mutual animosity. Grow up already!  END	2000-05-03
US	52579024	R2E41OZW1ZKO1B	0380726254	944080987	Serpent's Tooth: A Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus Novel (Decker/Lazarus Novels)	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Blah.	This was my first Kellerman book and most definitely my last. (Unless I'm on a trans-Atlantic flight and her mystery novels are the ONLY reading materials available.) The characters were boring, the dialogue wasn't funny or interesting, the main character was a sexist pig, and I figured out who  did it before I was halfway through. I almost skipped to the last chapter  to see if I was right but I rarely put down a book or &quot;cheat&quot; on  a mystery novel. Fortunately, the quick pace (due to a lack of literary  description about anything or anyone) kept me going until the lame ending.	2000-05-03
US	52579024	R1094PZOW8468F	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	118	131	N	N	One Big Laugh Out Loud!	I would love to give this books five stars but I can't. There were three stories (&quot;Chipped Beef,&quot; &quot;Dinah, the Christmas Whore,&quot; and &quot;The Drama Bug&quot;) that just didn't grab me, so I can't in good  conscience give &quot;Naked&quot; a perfect rating. But it's a very strong  4....like a 4.7.<br />David Sedaris is one of the funniest authors I've ever  read. His storytelling is superb and absolutely hilarious!  This is a  must-read for anyone out there who wants to temporarily escape their own  dull lives and live vicariously through someone else. Underneath Sedaris's  humorous adventures lies a sadness and fear, but that's what makes the  stories so beautiful and genuine. Living with OCD, his mother's death, and  realizing and accepting his homosexuality are amongst life's trying  situations, to say the least. But Sedaris recounts those experiences with  tenderness and dignity. I dreaded getting to the last page, and when I  closed the book and put it back on the shelf it felt like I was losing a  new friend. So...the solution to that was simple....I just pre-ordered his  next book.<br />NOTE: If you loved &quot;Naked&quot; you'll love  &quot;Barrell Fever.&quot;	2000-04-28
US	52579024	RGMPTPUWYBHIG	0385491387	447660358	Legal Briefs: Short Stories by Today's Best Thriller Writers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb Read!	I loved almost every story in this collection, with the exception of John Grisham's &quot;The Birthday&quot;. I especially liked &quot;The Divorce,&quot; by Grif Stockley, &quot;The Jailhouse Lawyer,&quot; by  Phillip Margolin, and &quot;Stairwell Justice,&quot; by Jay Brandon.  I  will definitely be buying books by the above-mentioned authors...writers  that I would have never considered reading before I read their stories in  &quot;Legal Briefs.&quot; The nice thing about short story collections is  if you're bored with one just skip it and move on to the next. Fortunately,  I didn't have to do that with this book.	2000-03-15
US	52579024	R3GZQSVXGTAKAL	0821224972	177779569	If Only You Knew How Much I Smell You: True Portraits of Dogs	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	INCREDIBLE in every way!	If you love dogs - or even if you just LIKE dogs - buy this book. The photos are AMAZING and the captions on each page (describing what the dog might be thinking or feeling) are so on the money. My only complaint is  that there were no photos of Pugs. (I own one! ) This is truly a beautiful  book that can be flipped-through over and over and over and over.....	2000-01-04
US	52579024	R7BKT4HYN9SX4	0385479484	944864152	The Short History of a Prince: A Novel	Books	2	4	17	N	N	What A Struggle!	If I had the option, I would really give this book one-and-a-half stars, but I'm feeling generous. Jane Hamilton's other two novels, &quot;The Book of Ruth&quot; and &quot;A Map of the World,&quot; were two of my all-time  favorite books. This book, however, was not. First of all, I didn't like  the way the story went back and forth between Walter's 1973 experiences and  his 1996 experiences. It's not that I object to this style of writing, but  it was difficult for me to follow many events without having to go back and  skim through previous chapters. Secondly, I found many characters, such as  his mother Joyce, his brother Daniel, his father Robert and his aunt Sue  Rawson VERY underdeveloped. It was hard to identify to some of Walter's  feelings and emotions in relation to them because I never really got an  in-depth &quot;portrait&quot; of who they were. I wanted to learn more  about Daniel -- who was he, and what was he like as a teenager? By the time  he died I could care less because I never got to know him, aside from the  fact that he was a good swimmer. I found Susan's character incredibly  annoying and selfish. Come to think of it, most of the characters were so  self-involved at times it was a turnoff.<br />On the positive side,  Hamilton's attention to detail, her ability to &quot;set the scene&quot;  and the character's emotional analysis are excellent. Walter IS a very  interesting character and his struggles with his sexuality are very well  developed.<br />Unfortunately, I really had to really push myself to make it  through this book, and several times I nearly put it down for good. But I  kept holding on because I was hoping the pace would pick up. But it didn't.  If you're curious about Jane Hamilton, don't read this novel first (or at  all.)	2000-01-04
US	52579024	R1ZMAK7AHEQKZL	0671038184	835489451	Jewel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	11	17	N	N	A Forgettable Tale	I had a hard time getting into this book and wanted to put it down permanently but I kept hoping it would improve.<br />First of all, Jewel is no heroine. She seems to put her entire family on the back burner for  Brenda Kay. Her treatment of and disregard for Lester and his feelings was  selfish and horrible. Furthermore, her blaming Cathedral for Brenda Kay's  burns was wrong too. She almost as much as admits that she had to blame  someone. I think she should at least acknowledged to herself (and to us  readers) that it wasn't all Cathedral's fault. I was disgusted with the way  she manipulated Lester to move back to California. Talk about  selfishness!  No wonder the poor man died of a heart attack!<br />Skip this  book. It's a very frustrating read.	1999-11-23
US	52579024	R29SI6IDJ9UZVY	046503618X	116187755	Ithaka: A Daughter's Memoir Of Being Found	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Powerful Read	I've read most of the reviews listed about this book and was annoyed by several of them which criticized Sarah's &quot;spoiled&quot; lifestyle and &quot;selfish&quot; lack of response to her birthparents.<br />I am also an  adoptee, adopted through the same agency as Saffian. I was also raised in  Manhattan by a well-to-do family. I have had access to my birth father's  whereabouts for several months but haven't felt right about contacting him  yet. It may take me three years  to write the letter or make the phone  call. But if it does, so be it. There is nothing wrong with waiting until I  feel ready, just as there was nothing wrong with her going through her  process.<br />&quot;Itaka&quot; is a beautifully written book about the range  of emotions Saffian went through before, during and after her reunion. In  my opinion, it's a must read for for all members of the adoption triad.	1999-11-22
US	52579024	R1CQNT1JOQYK7X	0399142983	297933403	Singing in the Comeback Choir	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Heartwarming Read	I LOVE Bebe Moore Campbell. She is among my top 10  favorite female authors. I rushed to the bookstore  when I heard this book came out and I wasn't disappointed.  I must say, however, that I really had to struggle  through the first 50-75 pages because nothing really &quot;happened&quot;  in the beginning -- Ms. Campbell took too long setting up the characters  and plot. But I'm glad I held on because it is a beautiful  story about  love, family ties, honesty, and dealing with life one day at a time. Maxine  is a  remarkable, brave woman. The storyline was a BIT  predictable (I  think because of the title!) and some of the characters were not as  developed as her characters usually are. But Lindy was so real I felt like  I knew her. But I wanted more info. on Satchel and his childhood. And I  really wanted to know more about his affair with Sheila. Why did he do it?  (Besides the obvious!) What was going on in his marriage to Maxine  that  caused him to stray? I also wanted to know more about Maxine's mother  Millicent and her relationship with Lindy. BUT..you can't have everything  and on the whole I thoroughly enjoyed the book once it got going. A must  read for Camplbell fans!!! And hang on...it gets GREAT!	1999-03-09
US	52579024	R33VLLCG2HL9M6	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An Excellent Page-turner!!!	I LOVED everything about this book. The characters are interesting and well developed and the plot is riveting. It's amazing that the book was written by an American male. If I didn't know it was fiction and that the  writer was indeed a male, I would have thought it a work of non-fiction  written by an actual geisha.<br />This is a must read for all sexes and ages.  It has something for everyone: romance, drama, suspense, a loveable main  character (Sayuri)  and a wonderful villain (Hatsumomo). I learned so much  about a world that held very little, if any, interest to me. I only bought  the book because it received such high praise. It will definitely become a  classic.	1999-02-06
US	52579024	RG6RH34U32TR1	0767900243	695665407	Freedomland	Books	2	10	12	N	N	BLAH	THE BAD FEATURES:  1) Too long; 2) Too many rambling descriptions attempting to &quot;set the scene&quot;; 3) Cliched characters;  4) Predictable; 5) Too slow.<br />THE GOOD FEATURES: 1) Interesting story; 2)  Makes me want to keep reading to &quot;find the truth behind the  lies&quot;; 3) Great dialogue - Price has the lingo down pat; 4) I loved  Lorenzo's character.<br />OVERALL: Wait for the paperback version or buy it on  audio. &quot;Clockers&quot; fans beware: It's not as good.	1999-01-19
US	52579024	R1DZ1SP9M5YK4	0393036731	71253900	Nine Lives: From Stripper to Schoolteacher : My Year-Long Odyssey in the Workplace	Books	5	2	3	N	N	LOVED IT!!	I read this book years ago and was disappointed to see that it is out of print. I've been reading Snowden's magazine articles for years and love her writing style.<br />&quot;Nine Lives&quot; is an insiders look at certain jobs you'll probably never have. I've always fantasized about being a  cocktail waitress in Vegas, but wouldn't have the guts, or the feet, to  actually do it. It's fun to read about how Snowden held up and dealt with  the challenges of her different jobs.<br />I loved this book  and would  recommend it to anyone. Snowden is a very talented writer, and if you're  reading this Lynn, WRITE SOMETHING ELSE ALREADY!!! I'll be waiting....	1998-12-26
US	52579024	R1I0FIWZGD7MOK	0525941673	114681625	Cavedweller	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Great--but not quite meaty enough	I can't remember if wrote a review of this book earlier in the week..so here goes (sorry if my opinion appears twice!!!)<br />I keep vascillating between 3 and 4 stars. First off, I think Dorothy Allison is an AMAZING storyteller. The characters in &quot;Cavedweller&quot; really came to life  for me. But the problem I had with the book was that I was left wanting  more information on each and every person. There were so many different  characters that were so emotionally complex, yet I couldn't help but feel  slighted at the end of the book because just as I was getting to the bottom  of who they really were, the story would  shift gears. Also, the characters  were  very stereotypical. (The Religious One. The Lost Child. The  Rebellious Child. The Dying, Scumbag Father.)<br />Overall, I enjoyed every  page because Allison is such a talented writer. If you like &quot;Bastard  Out of Carolina&quot; I think you'll really enjoy &quot;Cavedweller&quot;.	1998-12-26
US	52579024	R2T7WG2PXOVZ3G	0385492685	555691073	Breakup	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Unforgetable....but VERY repetitive	I identify with Texier's pain and confusion about the breakup of her marriage. There are many passages which literally made my heart beat faster. There were times I wanted to  strangle Joel for treating Catherine  the way he did, but I also wanted to strangle her for allowing him to live  a double life for as long as she did. I know it's hard to let go of someone  you love, but on the other hand, have some self respect!!! Kick him out  already!!!! I certainly wouldn't have allowed a man to treat me the way  Joel treated her. I understand that they had &quot;a bond&quot;, but  reading page after page of her masochism was incredibly sad and  frustrating.<br />Overall I enjoyed the book. It did its job of evoking a  strong emotional response. However, it was incredibly repetitive. How many  times did she have to tell us how confused and sad and angry she was? I  know that's the point of the memoir, but I couldn't help but roll my eyes  while reading yet another passage  that read like one on a previous  page.<br />I only wish Texier had the courage to dump the sad, pathetic Joel  sooner than she did. If not for herself, then for her two children who had  no choice but to weather their storm. I feel very sorry for them and what  they had to go through.<br />I don't know what I would have done in her  situation so I can't pass judgement. (Even though I kind-of am!) Texier is  a beautiful writer and I'll read more of her work in the future. But if you  haven't bought it already, wait for the paperback.	1998-12-24
US	52579024	R1K27CI1IGV859	0679762671	999026123	A Dog's Life	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An Entertaining Light Read	Being a cat lover, I wasn't sure how receptive I'd be to a story told by a  canine. I mean, I like dogs, but I LOVE cats. Peter Mayle is an excellent  writer. His words flow beautifully and Boy's escapades are thoroughly  amusing.<br />While reading the book I began to wonder if my cats see the  world as Boy  did. We humans must baffle domestic animals and I've been  catching myself feeling foolish talking baby talk to my kitties. Do they  think I'm a nut job? Probably. But they love me anyway.<br />What did  disturb me about the book was the two or three descriptions of animal  cruelty. Butchers weilding brooms and neighbors swatting Boy with dead  chickens did not make for pleasant reading. But overall I loved &quot;A  Dog's Life&quot; and recommend it highly to anyone that owns pets.<br />P.S.  Excellent illustrations!!!	1998-09-20
US	52579024	R2TXRWY0UHP90C	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	3	1	4	N	Y	A Decent Beach Read	To me,  this is the kind of book you can read during commercials of your  favorite tv show. People with small attention spans will appreciate its  disorganized yet witty style.<br />Being a born and raised Manhattanite, I was  able to identify all too well with the sad cast of characters Ms. Bushnell  portays. They are merely characatures of themselves and after reading the  book, I was further reassured that leaving The Big Apple was the best  choice for me.  I wouldn't trade my life with any of those money-hungry,  attention seeking, shallow individuals. I only enjoyed the book because  it's always fun to read sordid tales of the city.	1998-09-10
US	52579024	R1PVJK5F6ZQ4AO	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Not Worth the Hype	After reading rave reviews of this book, I was very disappointed.  (Especially that I bought it in hardcover!!!) It reads like an article out  of &quot;Seventeen&quot; magazine. Who cares how many cigarettes she smoked  and how much weight she lost or gained....or lost....or gained....??? It  was funny in the beginning, but tedious as it went on....and on...and on.  If this book can get published than I should send my journals to Viking and  make a million bucks. My life is far more interesting. On the plus  side...there are some funny bits and the prose flows nicely.  I wasn't  bored reading it, but I can't say I was disappointed when I finished it.	1998-08-23
US	52579024	R3RY4SF585GGY2	0380778556	39495389	Rebecca	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Great Middle &amp; End!	&quot;Rebecca&quot; is a very slow read in the beginning -- too much  blabber about landscapes and flowers. But do plod through. If you can get  through the first 80 pages you're in for a real treat. A timesless classic  of love, jealousy, evil and murder. After you read it, see the movie  starring Laurence Olivier.	1998-08-15
US	52579024	R2AM2MOMG1DPKL	0385487096	643838844	John Wayne: A Novel	Books	2	4	5	N	N	LOVE THE DUKE...DIDN'T LOVE THE BOOK	Dan Barden is an excellent writer with the potential of producing truly brilliant work. But this novel bored me to tears.  Mr. Barden, please keep writing, but let's put John Wayne to rest for good.	1998-07-13
US	52579024	R1VDBOQMF4RE3N	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	UNFORTUNATELY, IT DIDN'T KEEP ME AWAKE	Great concept. Great characters. Great writing (as usual). But sometimes King goes off on tangents just when all I want to do is find out what happens next.... but not 13 pages later. This happens too often in &quot;Insomnia&quot;. Trim the fat, Mr. King.	1998-07-13
