US	52571463	R3M1E5C063J65N	0553801953	602789703	Kill the Messenger (Hoag, Tami)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Another solid suspense thriller by Hoag	I have read many of Tami Hoag's books, as I generally enjoy how she combines a solid suspense thriller with steamy romance scenes.  I found Kill the Messenger to be a change of pace from her usual style, however, and initially, I found it difficult to get into the story.  First of all, the book opens with a much younger main character than usual, Jace, a barely-legal boy from a chaotic background who is working as a bike messenger to try to give his much younger brother a more stable life.  Jace becomes unwittingly involved in illegal activies, putting him on the run and providing an entrance for the book's other main character, Kev Parker, a police detective with something to prove.  Immediately after these early introductions to Jace and Parker, I didn't have a good feel for either character's personality; both remained a mystery.<br /><br />As the story continued, however, more well-defined personas for Jace and Parker began to emerge, and the only mystery became the one that Jace was caught up in and that Parker was trying to solve.  The frequent shifts between the perspectives of several different characters caused me to become even further engrossed in the novel, and by the final pages, I was eager to reach the book's climax.  Here, Hoag does not disappoint, throwing in an unexpected resolution as well as a few surprising aftershocks as well.  Ultimately, I enjoyed this book, and although I missed the romance angle, I will continue seeking out Hoag's thrillers in the future.	2005-10-01
US	52571463	RKTAHJDUXQ5XZ	014200054X	277810426	Secret Love	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting story with a noteworthy San Francisco/civil rights backdrop	I picked up this book because the jacket description sounded interesting:  in 1960s San Francisco, Jake, a widowed attorney and civil rights activist, falls for Nisa, a beautiful, much younger black woman.  At the same time, Nisa's gay actor friend, Peter, falls for a handsome younger black male, Simon.  Despite this intriguing premise, I found it very difficult to become absorbed in this novel at first.  In particular, I never got a good feel for the characters; they didn't seem very well-defined to me, and so I never understood the rationale for their behaviors.<br /><br />The first part of the novel centers mainly around Jake and Nisa, with the second half devoting more equal time to Peter and Simon.  One of these romances ends in tragedy, and the other just ends--ultimately, I wasn't sure exactly what the book was trying to say.  However, the descriptions of San Francisco plus the civil rights zeitgeist added interesting elements to the story; there was enough here that I *wanted* to find out how it ended even though I was a bit disappointed once I did.	2005-09-21
US	52571463	R3FM4U3VLMJ6GT	0446529567	912114713	An Inconvenient Wife	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Historical fiction and social commentary wrapped into one	Socialite Lucy Carelton has been plagued with problems throughout her married life; she suffers from \\"fits\\" and has been diagnosed with hysteria as well as various other neurological disorders.  Furthermore, she has failed to conceive a child, which, for a late 19th century woman, is virtually her sole life's purpose.  Lucy, however, has always wanted more, which is what got her into trouble in the first place.  In the book's prelude, Lucy's latest doctor suggests that she be placed in an asylum, which both Lucy and her husband view as out of the question.<br /><br />Fast-forward to one year later:  there's a new doctor in town.  Dr. Victor Seth is the subject of both controversy and praise, and at her husband's urging, Lucy becomes his patient.  Not longer after, however, her husband begins to question this decision.  Lucy seems better, yet she is engaging in \\"strange\\" behavior such as drawing--something her father forbade her to do as a child.  The more Lucy works with Dr. Seth, the more independent she becomes, and at the same time, the boudaries of the doctor-patient relationship begin to blur.  This story is at times riveting, at times shocking, and overall a worthwhile read.	2005-09-10
US	52571463	RTZ0XRB6PUFOX	1551667215	693713855	The Book Club	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Enjoyable read about life transitions and the rewards of friendship	As the title suggests, The Book Club centers around five women who are members of a reading circle.  Their Book Club has been an important part of each of their lives for many years, but now, as they are in their 40s and 50s, each woman is facing a crossroads in her life.  Center to the story is one of the club's founders, Eve, who, in the opening pages of the book, suddenly loses her husband and the entire life she knew.  Doris, the other founding member, is the next-most featured character:  a wife and mother who feels both of those titles beginning to slip away, along with her identity.  Doris is also at odds with one of the newer group members, Annie, a seemingly perfect career woman who is losing control over her own life as well.  Finally, Midge and Gabriella round out the circle, and although each face their own dilemmas, less time is devoted to their characters.<br /><br />Other reviewers have mentioned that this book is clich&eacute;d, and that's certainly true at times; there are plenty of other stories out there, both real and fiction, of women going through turning points in their lives.  However, there is a universal aspect to these women's stories that creates an entertaining and engaging novel.  Although I found the very end of the book to be a bit too schmaltzy for my tastes, overall, I enjoyed this read and will look for other works by this author.	2005-09-06
US	52571463	R8UOWJOCE0GP2	0976084104	218346521	Don't Dream It's Over: the '80s Music Party Game	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A must-have for 80s music fans!	My husband and I attended both high school and college in the 80s, and we're still such huge fans of 80s music that our 2003 wedding had an all-80s music theme!  So, you can imagine how thrilled I was to discover this book, which contains 10 \\"Quiz Sets\\" of 100 questions each--that's right, 100 questions all about 80s music.  I have to admit, I consider myself pretty knowledgeable when it comes to the crazy, corny music of that great decade, but I didn't get past the back cover before I was stumped (\\"name the three Prince hits where the letter \\"u\\" is substituted for the word \\"you\\" in the title\\"--I could only think of one!).<br /><br />Author Martin Quinn provides several different ways in which you can use the book for a party game, from the \\"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\\" version (no teams) to the \\"Don't Worry Be Happy\\" version (a drinking game).  Also, each of the questions is given a point value, from \\"1\\" being the easiest to \\"5\\" being the hardest.  This is the only part of the book that didn't quite work for me, as some of the 1-point items are pretty tough, whereas \\"what starts with Q, ends with T, and commanded you to 'Bang Your Head' in 1984?\\" appears on the first page as a 3-point question (c'mon, you've got to know this one!).  Overall, however, I know this book will provide me, my husband, and our friends with hours of entertainment, and I highly recommend it for any 80s music fans.	2005-08-29
US	52571463	R3CFGZZRAZ37XU	1579546013	979439662	Body for Life for Women: A Woman's Plan for Physical and Mental Transformation	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Excellent guide to women's weight removal through healthy eating and exercise	In Body for Life for Women, Dr. Pamela Peeke takes the original Body for Life concepts and gears them more specifically towards women. In particular, she focuses on the four \\"hormonal milestones\\" of a woman's life (menstruation/early adulthood, childbearing years, perimenopause/menopause, postmenopause). Not only does Dr. Peeke clearly understand the special needs of women in each of these stages, but also she tailors her advice to match each stage.<br /><br />Dr. Peeke presents a simple weight removal program (she doesn't like the term \\"weight loss,\\" which implies that the weight has gone missing and you want it back!) which focuses on three main areas: Mind, Mouth, Muscle. Mind involves dealing with the psychological/emotional obstacles to removing weight, and Dr. Peeke offers specific suggestions for how to identify your own personal motivation and to persevere. Mouth addresses your eating habits. Rather than offer a specific diet plan, Dr. Peeke presents simple eating guidelines. She classifies food into three basic categories--smart protein, smart carbs, and smart fats--and explains exactly how many portions you will need from each category in order to meet your goals. The final segment of the program, Muscle, is the exercise component; here, Dr. Peeke stresses the importance of both cardio AND weight training to achieve success. She presents a variety of cardio options, and the weight exercises are clearly described and illustrated in the appendix.<br /><br />Although the above program is structured, it is by no means overly strict. Dr. Peeke encourages you to go at your own pace: if you want to begin by making dietary changes but aren't yet ready to tackle exercise, she tells you to go for it. In fact, throughout the book, she comes across as extremely supportive, caring, and encouraging (although I found her \\"you go girl\\"-type statements to be a little over-the-top at times). Her writing is very straightforward, and she maintains a \\"you can do it!\\" attitude throughout. But, if you need further encouragement, you don't have to look any further than the amazing book jacket \\"before and after\\" photos and the truly inspiring success stories contained within the text.<br /><br />This book is ideal for any woman who is ready to follow an uncomplicated weight removal plan that will lead to lifetime changes. My only caveat would be to mention that if you are looking for a program that more regimented and restricted, this book might not be for you, but I highly recommend it to all others.throughout. But, if you need further encouragement, you don't have to look any further than the amazing book jacket \\"before and after\\" photos and the truly inspiring success stories contained within the text.<br /><br />This book is ideal for any woman who is ready to follow an uncomplicated weight removal plan that will lead to lifetime changes. My only caveat would be to mention that if you are looking for a program that more regimented and restricted, this book might not be for you, but I highly recommend it to all others.	2005-08-25
US	52571463	RUXUOPUWWQN7V	0786881593	566660819	Voight: Precision Training for Body and Mind	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautifully illustrated guide to women's fitness	Renowned fitness instructor Karen Voight released this book in 1996 as an exercise and weight loss guide for women.  Her goal was to help women to commit themselves to a healthy lifestyle and to make exercise a priority in their lives.  She identifies five factors that are particularly important for helping women to achieve low body fat and defined muscles as follows:  1) moderate intensity, 2) high frequency, 3) long duration, 4) lower body emphasis, and 5) compound followed by an individual exercise.  Keeping these factors in mind, she present chapters on five main body areas--arms, legs, buttocks, abdominals, and back--offering a series of weighted exercises as well as precise instruction for each of these areas.  She also includes an excellent chapter on stretching, an often-neglected but necessary part of a fitness regimine.<br /><br />Follow the exercise information, Karen offers helpful motivational tips and then moves into healthy eating.  Here, I found her information to be a bit dated.  Although her \\"seven sensible menus\\" would still be fairly viable today, some of her recommendations--e.g., to snack on carbs-ladden rice cakes--are not as current.  But for the most part, however, Karen Voight has managed to create a timeless fitness manual which is enhanced by the beautiful, sepia-toned photographs of Karen's amazingly fit body executing the exercises.  This would be a helpful book for any woman looking to embark on a basic exercise program as taught by a master instructor.	2005-08-19
US	52571463	R3Q5JSDNCCP4TC	0743256158	818080128	The Virgin's Lover (The Plantagenet and Tudor Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another captivating story about the Tudor era	In author Philippa Gregory's first Tudor story, The Other Boleyn Girl, she followed the passionate yet ultimately disastrous relationship between King Henry the Eighth and the beautiful, tempestuous Anne Boleyn.  In The Virgin's Lover, Gregory presents the story of Anne Boleyn's daughter, Elizabeth, and her own doomed love affair.  Queen Elizabeth never married--hence the label \\"Virgin Queen\\"--but during her reign, there was much speculation about her need to make a suitable match as well as rumors of her love for someone quite unsuitable, Sir Robert Dudley.  This novel elaborates on the passion between Elizabeth and Robert, intertwining their fates but ultimately thrusting them apart.<br /><br />For me, this book recaptured some of the excitement of The Other Boleyn Girl that was lost with Gregory's second historical saga, The Queen's Fool; those who enjoyed The Other Boleyn Girl are almost certain to enjoy this book as well.  Elizabeth was obviously an exciting monarch, and whatever the truth of her relationship with Sir Robert, there was clearly a great deal of both passion and mystery involved.  Finally, anyone who is particularly interested in the story of Elizabeth and Robert might also want read Victoria Holt's My Enemy The Queen, another fictional account of the era, this one focused on the love triangle between Elizabeth, Robert Dudley, and Dudley's second wife, Laetitia Knollys.	2005-08-17
US	52571463	R2YFU5Q94KF2CC	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	5	2	5	N	N	In writing about suicide, Hornby manages to be both serious AND funny	In Nick Hornby's latest novel, four Londoners (including one American) have an unlikely meeting:  on New Year's Eve, they all wind up at the top of a popular London high-rise with the intention of coming down the fast way.  Through a series of rather quirky circumstances, however, they agree to take the stairs back down together.  Over the next weeks and months, they find themselves spending more and more time with each other despite the fact that they have virtually nothing in common--other than being suicidal that is, which turns out to be key.<br /><br />I've read all of Hornby's previous novels and particularly enjoyed [[ASIN:1573227331 About a Boy]]. Given both that Hornby again decided to tackle the subject of suicide combined and the fact that I'm a psychologist, I was eager to read this new book.  Happily, Hornby did not disappoint, and I found myself frequently laughing out loud, a rarity for me.  Despite this, however, in no way does Hornby mock or diminish the seriousness of suicide; rather, the use of humor serves more to highlight the despair that someone in that position might feel.  The novel is written in the varying voices of the four main characters, and I found each of them to ring true.  Finally, although there is no simple \\"happy\\" ending, like the book itself, the conclusion is quite real.  I hope Hornby continues to write about serious topics, as ironically, I found his two more serious novels (this one and [[ASIN:1573227331 About a Boy]]) much funnier than his two lighter-hearted ones ([[ASIN:1573225517 High Fidelity]] and [[ASIN:1573229326 How to Be Good]]).	2005-08-06
US	52571463	R2ZFJIGIJRFSMA	0553801228	774262906	Summer Light	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Showcases the complexity of love and relationships	At its center, this is a romance novel--the story of how unlucky-in-love May Taylor and famous-but-lonely hockey player Martin Cartier find each other--but it's also much more than that.  May and Martin are brought together by May's daugther, Kylie, who seems to have a special gift of seeing things others do not.  One of the things she claims to see is Martin's long-dead daughter, Natalie, who may have a vital message for her father.  Martin refuses to speak of Natalie, and he blames his own father, Serge, a once-great hockey player in his own right, for her death.  Ultimately, it is all of these relationships plus others which make this a more rich, complex novel.  One problem I had with the book is that the character of Martin is not always sympathetic; at least from my own women's perspective, it was hard for me to understand at times why May continued to put up with him.  Regardless, I still found this to be an engaging read, and I will definitely look into other work by this author.	2005-08-03
US	52571463	R1J2WYI1XB6A1C	034545071X	24712346	Distant Shores	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A story of a woman lost in a marriage who finds herself and a new life	Elizabeth \\"Birdie\\" Shore has been aware for some time now that her marriage hasn't been quite right.  However, after following her husband, a former NFL star turned small-town sports newsman--around from town to town for years, she has finally settled into a house she loves, and so while the problems in her marriage occasionally bother her, she is mostly able to ignore them.  Meanwhile, her husband, Jack, has been desperate for years to reclaim some of his former glory, and when the opportunity to break a big story comes his way, he runs with it.  When Jack accepts a fabulous job opportunity on the opposite coast without even consulting Elizabeth, she reluctantly prepares to leave the home she loves to follow her husband once again.  However, a sudden loss causes her to re-evaluate her life, and for the first time, she decides to follow her OWN dreams.<br /><br />When I first started this book, it seemed like yet another story of a woman trying to find herself--mildly interesting, yet nothing particularly new or different.  Also, I found Elizabeth and some of the other characters (namely her Southern stereotype father) to be somewhat cliched.  As I continued reading, however, both the story and the characters became more rich and complex, and I became more engrossed in the novel, making it easier to overlook the occasional flaws.  Overall, this was an enjoyable summer read about a woman in transition which I'd rate at 3 1/2 to 4 stars.	2005-07-25
US	52571463	R39B0HBWAX5LDI	076790396X	457085600	The Pilates Body: The Ultimate At-Home Guide to Strengthening, Lengthening and Toning Your Body- Without Machines	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent guide to Pilates principles and practice	Prior to receiving this book as a gift, I had never done Pilates, but I had read about the method and was intrigued by it. Author Brooke Siler writes in a straightforward manner; she provides important and helpful information without overdoing it. She begins with a brief discussion of the origins of the Pilates method as a means to explain the value of this technique; she then goes on to describe the most important components of the Pilates philosophy and reviews in practical terms how these apply to the exercises. For example, she thoroughly explains the concept of the \\"powerhouse,\\" the band of muscles which form a belt around the abdomen and back and which serve as the foundation for Pilates practice.<br /><br />With respect to the exercises themselves, Siler is detailed and meticulous. She carefully describes each exercise using easy-to-understand metaphors (eg, imagining your midsection is sewn to the ground or your arms are held down with weights) exceptional graphics, and clear photographic illustrations of student models. With respect to the three models, each one is specifically designated to portray either the beginner, intermediate, or advanced moves, which helps make the exercise levels extremely easy to follow. Furthermore, Siler provides outstanding information on how Pilates students can build their routine from the beginning to more advanced levels of practice. As mentioned, each exercise is clearly marked for the appropriate level, and Siler explains how to start with a modified beginner series of moves and then to add new exercises gradually as appropriate. At the end of the book, Siler includes some additional moves that are not part of the traditional Pilates matwork series, including the standing arm series.<br /><br />The book includes photographs of Joseph Pilates, inventor and founder of the Pilates method, at various ages to further highlight the benefit of this exercise technique.  It is also important to note that Siler was trained by Romana Kryzanowska, who was chosen by Joseph Pilates and his wife to be their successor; this means that Siler's book follows the authentic exercises and sequencing patterns taught by Pilates himself many years ago.  As an instructor, Siler has a very down-to-earth, non-intimidating manner; she is warm, supportive, encouraging, and enthusiastic, qualities which shine through the pages of her book.<br /><br />Now that I'm more experienced with the Pilates method via classes and videos, I've come to appreciate this book even more, as I have found that it gave me a solid foundation in the Pilates technique-when I tried classes and videos for the first time, I found that I already knew exactly how to perform each exercise correctly.  The book serves as an excellent adjunct to video workouts, as no where else will you find such thorough and detailed information on form as Siler provides here, and I still return to the book frequently for reminders and tips. Highly recommended for both beginning and more experienced Pilates practitioners!a Kryzanowska, who was chosen by Joseph Pilates and his wife to be their successor; this means that Siler's book follows the authentic exercises and sequencing patterns taught by Pilates himself many years ago.  As an instructor, Siler has a very down-to-earth, non-intimidating manner; she is warm, supportive, encouraging, and enthusiastic, qualities which shine through the pages of her book.<br /><br />Now that I'm more experienced with the Pilates method via classes and videos, I've come to appreciate this book even more, as I have found that it gave me a solid foundation in the Pilates technique-when I tried classes and videos for the first time, I found that I already knew exactly how to perform each exercise correctly.  The book serves as an excellent adjunct to video workouts, as no where else will you find such thorough and detailed information on form as Siler provides here, and I still return to the book frequently for reminders and tips. Highly recommended for both beginning and more experienced Pilates practitioners!	2005-07-19
US	52571463	R26V460LDLEQTX	1400060923	730676187	lost boy lost girl: A Novel (Straub, Peter)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent tale of murder, mystery, and (of course) the supernatural	Anyone who is familiar with Straub's work knows his novels require readers to suspend their disbelief as they enter the world of the supernatural.  In Lost Boy, Lost Girl, that world includes eerie connections between past and present, beings from different dimensions, and the possibility of awakened evil.  If that all sounds good, you will find Lost Boy, Lost Girl to be one of Straub's best novels since Ghost Story.<br /><br />The story opens with writer Timothy Underhill (who appeared in the previous Straub thrillers Koko, Mystery, and Blue Rose) traveling back to his hometown of Millhaven, IL, to attend the funeral of his sister-in-law, who committed suicide.  Shortly thereafter (actually, the events happen virtually simultaneously in the book due to Straub's habit of shifting back and forth in time), Tim's nephew Mark goes missing, and Tim finds himself in Millhaven yet again.  Through the use of Tim's journal, flashbacks, and various character perspectives, the story slowly begins to unfold, and eventually, the mystery of both Mark's disappearance and his mother's suicide is solved.<br /><br />I accidentally read the sequel to this novel, In the Night Room, before I read this book, and although I liked them both, I enjoyed Lost Boy, Lost Girl more.  Here, the use of the supernatural serves the story well, and I did not feel confused and bogged down by the details as I did when I read the subsequent work.  In fact, I found Lost Boy, Lost Girl to be a fascinating page-turner which I finished in just a few days; with an overall rating of 4.5-5 stars, this book is definitely one of my new favorites from Straub.	2005-07-18
US	52571463	R15HVBS8553R4V	0743222989	565270890	Authentic Happiness: Using the New Positive Psychology to Realize Your Potential for Lasting Fulfillment	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	Another valuable self-improvement manual by Seligman	As a psychologist myself and a big fan of Seligman's previous self-help work, Learned Optimism, I was eager to read this book.  Authentic Happiness is based on the Positive Psychology movement, or the idea that psychologists should be helping people feel more happy rather than simply less unhappy.  Well-respected psychologist Seligman has a gift for taking years of psychology research and breaking it down into readable yet still compelling evidence to support his theories.  He begins with reviewing the components that can affect happiness and how we can work to change these factors with respect to our past, present, and future.<br /><br />The meat of the book, however, lies in Seligman's notion of Signature Strengths, which he views as keys to more lasting fulfillment.  Seligman focuses in particular on how to enhance your signature strengths in the areas of love, work, and raising your children (based on many examples from his own child-rearing experiences).  He concludes the book by shifting into a slightly more spiritual perspective to discuss attaining a sense of meaning and purpose in life.<br /><br />Seligman is practical in addition to being philosophical, and thus the book contains many self-tests (all of which can also be found on his web site) as well as plenty of practical advice.  Overall, however, this book didn't quite resonate with me in the same way that Learned Happiness did, and although I've frequently recommended Learned Happiness to my clients, I see this newer work as being appropriate for a more limited audience.  Still, for anyone who chooses to read this book, Seligman's engaging writing style is sure to make it worth your while, and those who are truly motivated to pursue happiness in their lives are likely to benefit enormously.	2005-07-18
US	52571463	R3JO8H6M686EYZ	0205322077	669491995	Becoming an Effective Therapist	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A helpful, mostly comprehensive guide for beginning therapists	I am a psychologist, and the college counseling office where I work recently purchased this book to assist our supervision of practicum students. I believe that this book will prove to be ideal for that purpose, as it covers the scope of the therapy process from initiation to termination. The book focuses mainly on four perspectives of psychotherapy: psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, experiential/humanistic, and systems. While not comprehensive, the theories and interventions associated with each of these approaches certainly provide an excellent base of knowledge for the beginning therapist.<br /><br />Parts II and III of the book, which focus on engagement and assessment, are presented largely from an orientation-free point of view. Instead, the authors utilize in-session examples combined with learning exercises to build therapeutic skills. Part IV centers around interventions, including Cognitive and Behavioral, Psychodynamic, Interventive/Solution-Focused, and Systematic/Psychoeducational. Each succinct chapter does a nice job summarizing some of the major therapeutic techniques of the approach with continued use of in-session excerpts to highly the various interventions. Of course, although some material is beyond the scope of this book, I felt that failing to mention Bill O'Hanlon in the Solution-Focused chapter was a glaring omission.<br /><br />The final sections of the book address maintenance, termination, and practical/ethical issues. The book ends with a chapter on \\"The Effective Therapist in Action,\\" which provides a case presentation of a short-term therapy experience (about 1 month duration). In this chapter, the reader is encouraged to consider various questions about the therapist's work with a client. As these questions are intended to provoke thought and stimulate discussion, no answers are given, but I think that more guidelines on exactly HOW to formulate opinions in response to these inquiries might have been helpful.<br /><br />Overall, the authors pack quite a bit of helpful information into this book, and I believe it would serve as an extremely effective resource to new therapists as well as useful refresher for more seasoned practitioners.e authors pack quite a bit of helpful information into this book, and I believe it would serve as an extremely effective resource to new therapists as well as useful refresher for more seasoned practitioners.	2005-07-18
US	52571463	R2M6V4J0JJRW03	1583330844	419823515	The Good Carb Cookbook: Secrets of Eating Low on the Glycemic Index	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Best breakdown of the glycemic index that I have seen so far	Although I initially looked into this book for the recipes, what I wound up liking the best about it was its clear, straight-forward, simple presentation of the principles associated with low-GI eating.  Author Sandra Woodruff makes an excellent case for why diets that focus only on being low-fat or low-carb don't work; at the same time, she presents a strong argument for why low-GI eating is so effective.  I found her GI lists for common foods to be amazingly helpful, from the condensed version that appears early within the text to the more detailed version offered as an appendix.  Plus, the strategies for how to shift your own eating habits to a low-GI diet are invaluable:  Woodruff offers food substitutions; sample breakfast, lunch, and dinner ideas; and detailed guidelines for eating out at a variety of different types of restaurants.<br /><br />The above information forms the first 1/3 of the book, with the remainder--as the title suggests--being devoted to recipes.  This segment was less helpful to me only because I quickly became more interested in the basic guidelines for GI eating than in trying new recipes.  However, I did make one of the recipes, the Blueberry Oat Bran Muffins (substituting raspberries for the blueberries), and I found them to be light and sweet.  This was my first experience with trying Splenda for baking, and I know that I will continue using it in the future.  If you are confused about GI eating and would like more information, I highly recommend this book, which will be extremely useful whether you actualy use the recipes or not.	2005-07-13
US	52571463	R22V8862RN14T1	034546706X	339969379	Rage (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	24	29	N	N	The Dr. Delaware novels may be getting back on track	I've been a fan of Kellerman's for some time now and have read all of his books; I particularly enjoy the Alex Delaware series, especially since I'm a psychologist myself.  However, like many other reviewers, I've felt that Kellerman had started to lose his touch in some of the most recent Dr. Delaware books; it seemed that he was recycling similar themes or incorporating ideas that were so far-fetched as to go beyond the boundaries of poetic license.  Happily, RAGE is an improvement, and it gets back to the heart of what makes these books so engaging:  the suspense-ladden storyline combined with the relationship between Alex and his police detective (now lieutenant) friend, Milo Sturges.<br /><br />Here, Alex and Milo are trying to solve the murder of a mentally challenged young man who himself was accused of murder eight years before, a case in which Alex acted as a consultant.  As always, the process of solving this mystery leads Alex and Milo to speculate about other connections and links to the crime.  Unlike in some of the previous Dr. Delaware novels, however, the conjectures seem to follow from the evidence at hand, making the plot more believable.  On the other hand, I was a bit disappointed in the book's ending, as the conclusion did not provide definitive answers to many of the questions raised throughout the story.  Still, I enjoyed this book and look forward to finding out where Alex's adventures might take him next, including in terms of his love life.	2005-07-12
US	52571463	RH9Z9KL5H025G	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another thrilling tale of misery, mystery, and murder from Koontz	If you are familiar with Koontz's work, then you already know that he is a master storyteller with a unique ability to shine a beacon of hope in the face of despair.  Here, the potential vessel of despair is Billy Wiles, a 30-something bartender leading a seemingly non-descript life.  However, his past is filled with tragedy, including an extremely traumatic experience at age 14 and a more recent sudden and devastating loss.  Despite these events, Billy bravely attempts to continue living as best he can, until the night he discovers a note on his car which forces him into the position of choosing a serial killer's next victim.  The story that follows details Billy's attempts to disengage himself from the killer's deadly game while all the while becoming further entangled in an increasingly perilous situation.<br /><br />Like virtually all of Koontz's books, this is a page-turner, and I eagerly followed Billy's escapades even when I had an early inkling as to who the culprit might be.  Koontz is clearly more clever than me, however, as the conclusion has several unexpected twists that I didn't see coming at all.  Overall, this is a solid offering by Koontz and a genuinely enjoyable, suspenseful read.	2005-07-06
US	52571463	R1UP72BF8Z5YDY	0525948767	104909824	Cover the Butter	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An entertaining and enjoyable debut	Author Carrie Kabak's first novel, Cover the Butter, follows the life of Kate Cadogan Fanshaw.  When we first meet Kate, she is a middle-aged woman who discovers the wreckage of a party held by her teenaged son.  This event, combined with the uncaring, disinterested attitude of her husband, Rodney, throws Kate into an Alice in Wonderland-like review of her life in order to figure out exactly how she arrived at her present destination.  We follow Kate back to girlhood and observe her developing friendship with her best friend, Moira, her unhealthy relationship with her critical, demanding mother, Biddy, and her first forays into love and sex.  Her teenaged years in particular are quite reminiscent of Maeve Binchy's bestselling Irish novels, although Kate is English, not Irish.<br /><br />As Kate becomes an adult, she continues to allow others in her life-namely her mother and her husband-to make her decisions for her.  when Kate wakes up from her trip down memory lane, she comes to the realization that she must live her own life.  I enjoyed following Kate along this journey, but given the amount of time that it took Kate to arrive at this new place in her life, I was a bit disappointed by the haste in which the final few chapters wrapped up her transformation.  Furthermore, I thought that the author made some odd choices as to the action which she included in the narrative-for example, the death of a step-relative is a major event, whereas the death of a more beloved family member is mentioned only in passing.  Despite these minor criticisms, I found this book to be an entertaining and enjoyable read, and I would definitely be interested in reading the author's future work.	2005-06-30
US	52571463	R36PWCITXISJHY	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Evocative prose highlights an engrossing, moving story	In the opening lines of THE HOUSE OF SAND AND FOG, one of the main characters, Colonel Behrani, describes with disdain his daytime job removing trash from California's highways.  Soon we discover that his current circumstances stand in stark contrast to his former privileged life as an Iranian colonel serving in the Shah's army; his family was forced to flee to the US upon fear of death.  Behrani has used what little riches his family was able to carry out of Iran to ensure that his oldest daughter would marry well, and now that she has done so, he is hoping to finally pursue the American dream by opening a small business.  However, when a newspaper ad for a house auction happens to catch his eye, Behrani begins to believe that a future of buying and selling real estate will be the key to recapturing some of his family's former glory.<br /><br />Here the perspective shifts, and we meet Kathy Nicolo, owner of the small, ocean-view bungalo that Behrani has set his sights on purchasing.  Kathy, a former alcohol and cocaine addict, left behind her family on the East coast to live with her husband in the small California home which was bequeathed to her by her father.  By the time we meet Kathy, however, her husband has been gone for months, a fact which Kathy has failed to mention to her family, although she has managed to work and to stay sober.  When she begins receiving tax notices saying that she owes $500 for operating a business out of her home, she signs a statement with the county declaring this to be false, and she goes on to ignore all subsequent notices, including the ones which inform her that she is being evicted so that her house can be sold at auction.<br /><br />The unliking crossing of paths experienced by these two diverse characters creates perfect dramatic tension for the story that follows.  Behrani and Kathy alternately lead the narration, causing the reader's sympathies to fluctuate.  For my part, I found myself siding more with the colonel, as I keenly felt his simple desire to give his family a good life in America.  Furthermore, whereas it seemed that Behrani's misfortunes were due largely to circumstance, Kathy appeared to play a more active role in her own destruction.  One step along this path is her involvement with Lester, a married police officer who is assigned to evict Kathy but who becomes her advocate and ally.  Lester's willingness to go to any lengths necessary to help Kathy seemed both obsessive and unscrupulous, which made me even more unable to empathize with Kathy's point of view.  On the other hand, I easily felt for the colonel's sweet yet fearful wife and his heartbreakingly obedient young teenage son.<br /><br />The author's evocative prose propells the reader through the pages of this novel, and I found myself completely drawn into the lives portrayed therein.  In the second half of the book, however, the behavior of the main characters gradually becomes more bizarre, making them more and more difficult to relate to.  Furthermore, the author suddenly employs use of a third narrative perspective, that of Lester, which breaks up the previously smooth transitions between Behrani's and Kathy's versions of events.  Despite this, the gripping storyline continued to hold my attention, although I found myself feeling disappointed in the book's final pages.  Overall, however, this is a beautifully written, poignant novel which provides a glimpse into several very different yet ultimately equally tragic lives.keenly felt his simple desire to give his family a good life in America.  Furthermore, whereas it seemed that Behrani's misfortunes were due largely to circumstance, Kathy appeared to play a more active role in her own destruction.  One step along this path is her involvement with Lester, a married police officer who is assigned to evict Kathy but who becomes her advocate and ally.  Lester's willingness to go to any lengths necessary to help Kathy seemed both obsessive and unscrupulous, which made me even more unable to empathize with Kathy's point of view.  On the other hand, I easily felt for the colonel's sweet yet fearful wife and his heartbreakingly obedient young teenage son.<br /><br />The author's evocative prose propells the reader through the pages of this novel, and I found myself completely drawn into the lives portrayed therein.  In the second half of the book, however, the behavior of the main characters gradually becomes more bizarre, making them more and more difficult to relate to.  Furthermore, the author suddenly employs use of a third narrative perspective, that of Lester, which breaks up the previously smooth transitions between Behrani's and Kathy's versions of events.  Despite this, the gripping storyline continued to hold my attention, although I found myself feeling disappointed in the book's final pages.  Overall, however, this is a beautifully written, poignant novel which provides a glimpse into several very different yet ultimately equally tragic lives.	2005-06-20
US	52571463	RVI64RRQXG0WA	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A solid legal thriller with plenty of suspense	This is the second Lisa Scottoline book I have read, and I enjoyed it even more than the first.  Again, the setting is Philadelpia, and again, the focus is on the legal profession, but this time, the main character, Vicki, is an Assistant United States Attorney.  When a supposedly routine interview of a confidential informant goes horribly awry, Vicki finds herself compelled to discover why in an investigation that leads from guns to drugs to murder.  Along the way, she forms an unlikely alliance with a woman she helped jail, and their blossoming friendship, while somewhat predictable at times, gives the story a rich, personal feel.  Ditto Vicki's relationship with a fellow AUSA, Dan, with whom she shares a strong attraction despite the wedding ring on his finger.  One of the things I liked best about this novel is that even after the main mystery of the book is solved, there is more to come, lending further intrigue and leading to an unexpected conclusion.  Overall, I would not hesitate to recommend this novel; fans of suspense are likely to find it the perfect summer beach read.	2005-06-19
US	52571463	R7VY595VN06KJ	0767912268	873187256	To Have and To Hold	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The story of a woman who comes into her own...eventually	The first few pages of this novel foreshadow the fact that the main character, Alice, eventually comes into her own...but there is no mention of just how looong that process will take.  In the meantime, Alice believes herself to be deliriously happy because her schoolgirl crush, Joe, has asked her to marry him.  So what if Joe insists upon an elegant, formal wedding rather than the casual country celebration which Alice has always imagined?  So what if Joe asks her to lose weight and streak her hair blond?  And so what if he has a string of affairs throughout their marriage?  Of course, Alice will not acknowledge the latter, either to herself or to others.  The reader, however, is treated to the unending details of Joe's various liaisons as well as his repeated lies to Alice.<br /><br />Five years into their marriage, Joe and Alice move from London to New York to get a \\"fresh start.\\"  It is here, in the small farmhouse they purchase in Connecticut, that Alice finally begins to grow into her own person, although the process is slowed by her continued--if less frequent--appearances as Joe's \\"society wife\\" in New York City.  Long before Alice comes into her own, the reader is ready for her to do so, as her refusal to wake up and smell the coffee that is her marriage becomes quite wearisome after awhile.  If you can bear the slow pace, this is a mildly engaging novel that I would rate at about 3 1/2 stars overall.	2005-06-13
US	52571463	R1QVFW76HUGQ9T	0345425707	495995638	A Cup of Tea (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	A romantic novella set against a historical backdrop	This short novel takes place in New York City at the time that America enters World War I.  However, I wouldn't call it a historical novel per se, as the story is mainly character-driven with the historical elements serving only as a minor backdrop.  The book's plot revolves around two women:  Rosemary Fell, a young woman of means who is about to be married, and Eleanor Smith, a destitute girl barely of age who Rosemary reaches out to on impulse.  Eventually, this leads to a love triangle which is clearly destined to come to a bad end.  The book is a very quick read, not only because it is only 200 pages long but also because each chapter is just 2-4 pages long.  It provided me with adequate entertainment for an hour or two, but not to the extent that I would strive to recommend it to others.  However, if you are looking for a brief diversion, this little novel might fit the bill.	2005-06-13
US	52571463	ROOH5B5ANNQD9	B0006GSO5G	194483850	Leslie Sansone's Walk Away the Pounds Express - 2 Mile Brisk Walk	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great time-efficient walking program for all levels	The Brisk Walk program involves 29 minutes of walking followed by 3 minutes of stretching; it also utilizes a strechie band to work on upper body strengthening as get a cardio workout.  The walking part includes Leslie's 4 basic steps--walk (march), side step, front kick, and knee up--and gradually moves to a greater intensity.  Leslie informs you of each half-mile, so you get to see your porgress and the time passes quickly. The band is used for the second half of the workout only:  Leslie begins with some upper body movements without the band to warm up and then picks up the band for a bit of more intense work. You can adjust the resistance on the band, substitute light dumbbells, or forgo the band altogether if needed.  Overall, this is a very nice walking program that would be appropriate for a wide variety of fitness levels, as it easy is to modify the intensity of the workout. Highly recommended.	2005-06-10
US	52571463	R3T913PQ2P7YOC	0060737883	438090618	Singing Bird: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Engaging first novel about the need to uncover one's roots	When we first meet Lena Malloy, we see a woman who appears completely content with her life, including her marriage to a wonderful, faithful husband, Jack, and her relationship to her beautiful 27-year old adopted daughter, Mary, an up-and-coming opera singer.  However, a single phone call changes all that--Sister Monica, the Irish nun who arranged Mary's adoption, contacts Lena, supposedly just to \\"catch up,\\" but the call leaves Lena feeling anxious and unsettled.  When Mary suddenly announces a change in schedule that will involve a performance in Ireland, Lena makes an impulsive decision to travel to Ireland on holiday, seek out Sister Monica, and find Mary's birth parents as a \\"gift\\" to her daughter.<br /><br />The story which follows is interesting and engaging, although it involves quite a few coicidences.  In fact, one character even points out that she herself has been searching for years to find her adopted daughter whereas it has taken Lena only a few days to track down the information she seeks.  Furthermore, the author is a bit heavy-handed in her foreshadowing style:  the book's conclusion offers several surprising twists, but I (along with virtually every character other than Lena) was able to accurately predict these with more than half the story to go.  Still, this is a mostly entertaining novel that is likely to particularly appeal to Irish fiction enthusiasts and/or those with their own adoption experiences.	2005-06-07
US	52571463	R2YTSNKKSDGM63	1569244189	499147823	Make the Leap: A Practical Guide to Breaking the Patterns That Hold You Back	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Easy-to-understand guide to breaking destructive patterns	As the subtitle to this book suggests, Make the Leap is a truly practical guide to breaking the destructive patterns which occur in our lives.  To this end, author Farrell Silverberg, a psychoanalyst, introduces the SUBGAP method, which involves a 4-step process:  1) Seeing your pattern, 2) Understanding your pattern, 3) Breaking your pattern, and 4) Guarding Against Patterns in the future.  Using a clear, simple writing style, Silverberg breaks down each of these steps to make them completely assessible to the average reader.<br /><br />Various techniques are suggested to facilitate each step in the SUBGAP process.  For example, in order to recognize your pattern, Silverberg explains how to use both top-down and bottom-up analysis strategies.  Similarly, once you are ready to break your pattern, Silverberg offers a choice of several different ways to do this.  Plenty of real-person examples illustrate Silverberg's points; these add interest as well as increase comprehension of the SUBGAP method.  The book also particularly addresses breaking patterns in two specific areas, work and love, and finally, Silverberg shares how he overcame a destructive pattern in his own life.<br /><br />Given that this book is so straightforward, some readers might find it to be TOO simplistic.  Indeed, much of the conclusions contained in the book could alternatively be dervived from common sense and basic problem-solving as well as past self-help works (Bill O'Hanlon's Do One Thing Different comes to mind).  Despite this, I believe that this book could still be useful to many, as Silverberg's fundamental approach might just right for someone who has been unable to see, understand, or break a damaging pattern on their own.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for assistance in overcoming unproductive patterns and making positive life changes.	2005-05-30
US	52571463	R3FWXJITEM6L07	014028205X	195277679	Stealth Health: 100 Delicious Recipes and 1,000 Tips for Eating Right in Spite of Yourself	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great start for getting on the path to more healthy eating	The purpose of this book is to assist the average person with \\"sneaking\\" more healthy food into their diet.  These stealth tips take on a variety of forms, from adding grated vegetables to baked goods to identifying foods that meet a variety of nutritional needs to creating delicious yet healthy meals.<br /><br />Each chapter of the book is devoted to a specific dietary requirement, including increasing your intake of vegetables, fruit, calcium, soy products, beans, fiber, and iron plus decreasing your intake of fat.  Author Tribole first makes a compelling case for WHY that particular nutritional need is important and then offers various suggestions for meeting this need.  Every chapter also includes 5 ways to add the food to your meals, 20 ways to increase the food in your diet, and a nice selection of recipes.  So far, the recipes I have (Harvest Granola and Breakfast Pudding) have been both easy-to-make and very tasty.  I can't wait to make the Marble Cheesecake with Tofu!<br /><br />My one disappointment with this book was the vegetable chapter.  I was hoping that this section would give me ideas for my husband, who doesn't like most vegetables, but I thought that most of the suggestions were either things that I had already seen elsewhere or things that wouldn't work for someone who doesn't like vegetables to begin with.  Still, I was impressed with this book overall, and I definitely plan to continue trying the recipes as well as the more unique eating strategies.	2005-05-24
US	52571463	R2VY01ML5YACDB	1401301177	942765413	Jane Austen's Guide to Dating	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Tired of dating games?  Love Jane Austen?  Read this book!	When she moved to the US from England, author Lauren Henderson was mystified by the American dating scene.  Concepts such as \\"if you really like him, DON'T call him!\\" were completely foreign to her, and she quickly found that her romantic relationships were floundering.  Not knowing where to turn for advice, she fell back on her favorite author, Jane Austen, for guidance.<br /><br />Hendersen's main premise is that Austen's classic novels contain a wealth of truisms which can be applied to the modern dating scene, from \\"if you like someone, make it clear that you do\\" to \\"be prepared to wait for the right person to come along.\\"  The ten rules which Henderson gleans from Austen's work each form a separate chapter in the book, with each rule illustrated using various relationships, both good and bad, from Austen's novels.  Of course, much of the advice itself is merely common sense, but the Austen-based examples lend a unique intelligence and wit to what would have otherwise been another run-of-the-mill self-help book.<br /><br />Although Henderson suggests that you do not need to have read Austen in order to benefit from her book--she even provides summaries of Austen's six novels for those who fit this category--I believe that the book's appeal to non-Austen fans is limited.  However, if you have cherished Austen's novels, you are likely to relish every moment of this book as well, particularly the opportunity to match yourself and potential partners with Austen characters.  In conclusion, I would recommend this amusing little guidebook for any female fans of Jane Austen (are there any other kind?) who are looking for some basic, practical dating advice.	2005-05-23
US	52571463	RCQ9D2PZNKQ86	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A difficult read at times but ultimately worth the effort	I didn't read Foer's first book, Everything Is Illuminated, but I was intrigued by the idea of reading about the events of September 11th from the prespective of a grieving 9-year-old child.  Young Oskar Schnell is haunted by thoughts of exactly how his father, a jeweler who had a meeting at the World Trade Center on September 11th, died.  About a year after his father's death, he comes across a key hidden away in his father's closet, and he makes it his mission to discover the lock which goes with that key--a mission which he believes will bring him closer to his lost father.<br /><br />Despite the fact that Oskar's precociousness sometimes seems a bit implausible, he is an engaging, appealing, and certainly sympathetic character.  As told in his voice, the story manages to be funny, poignant, and heartbreaking all at the same time.  However, Foer uses additional narrators to provide missing plot details, including the disjointed ramblings of Oskar's grandmother and the one-sentence-per-page communications of a man who cannot speak.  These alternate commentaries, coupled with various pictures and other unusual visuals interspered throughout the text, add interest but also serve to weigh down the novel.  Furthermore, Foer uses a style of writing dialogue in which an exchange between two parties is contained in a single paragraph, which I found to be cumbersome and difficult to read.<br /><br />Still, I am glad I persevered and finished the book.  Although the conclusion does solve the mystery of the key, Oskar's questions remain unanswered, which is probably the most appropriate, if somewhat unsatisfying, ending.  Some may find the series of pictures which follow the end of the text sad or even shocking, but to me, they suggest hope and redemption.	2005-05-20
US	52571463	R2XHIFUI6YXQJ	1592863981	533868715	The Samson Process	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Completely over-the-top psychological thriller	The Samson Process revolves around a secret CIA program which targets innocent Americans as potential assassins.  In order to recruit their victims, the CIA operatives continuously bombard them with intense physical and mental harassment until they finally break down; at that point, the target is sent to \\"The Pinewood Institute,\\" where they are subjected to further programming by top psychiatrists.  \\"Samson\\" is the code name for Scott Russell, a CIA target who has eluded the program for years by refusing to succumb to the pressures placed on him by various agents, including a \\"Super Ten\\" team specially assigned to break him.<br /><br />A previous reviewer described this book as \\"quite implausible,\\" and I have to echo this sentiment.  Although I'm willing to give authors quite a bit of poetic license and actually enjoy reading fantasy, the concept behind this novel is so completely over-the-top that it is impossible for the reader to suspend belief to that extent.  The amount of time and money that is devoted to a single program target, Scott Russell, is simply absurd.  Furthermore, by the end of the book, the assassin program has been linked to a series of events as diverse as the assassinations of JFK, RFK, MLK, and John Lennon; the shooting at Columbine high school; and both the Oklahoma City and the September 11th terrorist attacks; again, this is all absolutely preposterous.  Another reviewer felt that the novel was a \\"personal dig at the psychiatric profession,\\" which is also a valid criticism.  As a member of the mental health field myself (I'm a psychologist, not a psychiatrist), I must say that I found the evil, soulless psychiatrist concept to be utterly ridiculous.<br /><br />Although there were a few times when I found myself starting to become engaged in the story, for the most part, I found the writing to be simplistic and the dialogue to be improbable.  The final scenes in particular seemed very fake, with almost a juvenile quality to them.  Furthermore, the conclusion left many questions unanswered:  who are the men who make up the mysterious \\"Council?\\"  what is the true identify of the enigmatic \\"Rose\\"?  It is possible that the sequel, The Curse of the Clowns, will tie up these loose ends, but I for one won't be reading it.e, the conclusion left many questions unanswered:  who are the men who make up the mysterious \\"Council?\\"  what is the true identify of the enigmatic \\"Rose\\"?  It is possible that the sequel, The Curse of the Clowns, will tie up these loose ends, but I for one won't be reading it.	2005-05-06
US	52571463	R6GYQPENW3VC9	0060765313	780688063	YOU: The Owner's Manual	Books	4	308	322	N	N	A good, basic manual addressing total body health needs	As the subtitle to this book suggests, the main purpose of this manual is to help you live a long, healthy life through educating you about your body and its needs.  The first author, Michael Roizen, is the pioneer of the RealAge concept--i.e., the idea that age is better measured by lifestyle factors rather than chronology--and he incorporates much of this concept into the current work.  In order to get a baseline sense of how much you already know about your body, the first chapter includes a self-assessment, The Body-Quotient Quiz.  This multiple-choice questionnaire offers some surprising answers to questions as diverse as \\"What is the genetic reason that men typically want more sex than women?\\" and \\"What is the main purpose of skin?\\"<br /><br />The book proceeds to devote a separate chapter to each of the following areas/systems of the body: the heart; the brain and nervous system; bones, joints, and muscles; the lungs; the digestive system; the sexual and sensory organs; the immune system; hormones; and cancer.  Each chapter provides basic educational information, much of which is conveyed in easy-to-read \\"myth busters\\" and \\"factoid\\" formats.  Then, once you have learned all the essential information about that area, the authors present a \\"Live Younger Action Plan,\\" which is a step-by-step guide to making the lifestyle adjustments that can help you to live a longer, healthier life. Some of these actions involve simply making yourself more aware of your own body--eg, finding out your cholesterol levels--while others involve an actual behavioral change such as modifying what you eat.  The final 50 pages of the book provide a simple diet plan based on very general guidelines; for instance, the authors offer recommendations under the categories of \\"foods to eat daily,\\" \\"foods to eat weekly,\\" and \\"foods to avoid.\\"  Also in this section is a suggested ten-day menu schedule which includes approximately 40 recipes.<br /><br />This book contains a wealth of important information about general health and well-being.  However, readers who already have a fundamental understanding of the factors which contribute to a healthy lifestyle may find this manual to be too basic.  Adding to the book's sometimes primitive presentation are the illustrations, which, while clear and helpful, also border on juvenille in that they include depictions of strange, elf-like figures.  Overall, however, this book imparts a great deal of vital knowledge in a simple, straight-forward manner, and I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to learn basic facts about their body's needs.nformation about general health and well-being.  However, readers who already have a fundamental understanding of the factors which contribute to a healthy lifestyle may find this manual to be too basic.  Adding to the book's sometimes primitive presentation are the illustrations, which, while clear and helpful, also border on juvenille in that they include depictions of strange, elf-like figures.  Overall, however, this book imparts a great deal of vital knowledge in a simple, straight-forward manner, and I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to learn basic facts about their body's needs.	2005-05-05
US	52571463	R1MKAN20BF9GU5	1588720926	954335407	Maximize Your Metabolism: Double Your Metabolism in Thirty Days or Less	Books	3	69	70	N	N	A total diet makeover for the highly motivated	If you are looking for an easy path to weight loss, be forewarned--this book isn't it!  In fact, author Christopher Guerriero clearly states that you can't eat poorly and be healthy; rather, he says \\"you must eat healthfully, exercise properly, and train your mind to help you in the process.\\"  In his Prelude to the System chapter, he provides an overview of his 4-step plan, which includes cleansing your system, reformulating your eating, introducing exercise, and training your mental core.  Guerriero makes a point of saying that this is not difficult, but you may think otherwise once you start getting into the details.  In the first stage, cleasing, you are required to go through a one to three day clease in which you consume nothing beyond water, fresh vegetables or fruits with their juices, and fresh vegetable soup (only if you have made it yourself with distilled water and organic vegetables).  Once you get past this step, which sweeps your system of impurities, you are ready to move on to increasing your metabolism through Guerriero's diet plan.  Unfortunately, it doesn't get any easier from here:  you begin by eliminating fats, move on to limiting  carbohydrates, increase your intake of raw vegetables, limit yourself to certain types of food prepartion (baked, boiled, or steamed), and finally, eliminate all dairy products.  And, if all that weren't enough, Guerriero also suggests that you stop all alcohol and coffee intake.  In order to make this diet plan a reality, Guerriero provides you with a 3-day template which you utilize in 7-day cycles for the 30 days of his program.  He himself describes the diet as \\"bland,\\" although it allows for 4-5 mini-meals per day.  He also recommends a high water intake as well as use of certain supplements.  Really, the information is not at all new; in fact, Baron Baptiste describes a very similar clease and diet plan in his book Journey Into Power.  However, I suppose the difference here is that Guerriero's specific aim is to impact your metabolism.<br /><br />Guerriero then moves on to the importance of exercise in maximizing your metabolism.  He emphasizes the need for both strength and cardiovascular training, and he provides an overview of concepts associated with each.  However, he does not offer any specific type of exercise plan; rather, he repeatedly refers you to consult with a personal trainer or other fitness expert.  Virtually the entire second half of the book is devoted to the mental aspects of the program.  Guerriero addresses such issues as breathing, managing your emotions, modelling your behavior after successful people, visualization, and motivation for exercise.  I felt that much of this information was common sense and that there wasn't much \\"meat\\" to it, as evidenced by the short chapters (8-14 pages) with too many unnecessary headings.  Finally, the book ends with a seven-day plan for increasing your metabolism; basically, this chapter just repeats the information which had previously been presented in a shorter, more condensed form.  To be fair, I did not actually try the techniques suggested in this book; I already exercise regularly, and I was not prepared to give my diet the total overhaul which Guerriero requires.  For someone who is motivated to make major lifestyle changes but has not yet found a program which works for them, this book might be the answer, but I think that most of us will want to look elsewhere for solutions.o impact your metabolism.<br /><br />Guerriero then moves on to the importance of exercise in maximizing your metabolism.  He emphasizes the need for both strength and cardiovascular training, and he provides an overview of concepts associated with each.  However, he does not offer any specific type of exercise plan; rather, he repeatedly refers you to consult with a personal trainer or other fitness expert.  Virtually the entire second half of the book is devoted to the mental aspects of the program.  Guerriero addresses such issues as breathing, managing your emotions, modelling your behavior after successful people, visualization, and motivation for exercise.  I felt that much of this information was common sense and that there wasn't much \\"meat\\" to it, as evidenced by the short chapters (8-14 pages) with too many unnecessary headings.  Finally, the book ends with a seven-day plan for increasing your metabolism; basically, this chapter just repeats the information which had previously been presented in a shorter, more condensed form.  To be fair, I did not actually try the techniques suggested in this book; I already exercise regularly, and I was not prepared to give my diet the total overhaul which Guerriero requires.  For someone who is motivated to make major lifestyle changes but has not yet found a program which works for them, this book might be the answer, but I think that most of us will want to look elsewhere for solutions.	2005-04-24
US	52571463	R38MS3BVVGP3Z8	1591855543	654923839	The Final Makeover	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Very good basic program but with limited applicability	Hollywood personal fitness expert Dino Nowak has written a book designed to provide a complete fitness makeover without any gimmicks or gadgets.  In Dino's plan, being healthy comes from not just the physical aspect but also from the emotional and spiritual as well.  Regarding the latter, Dino makes his Christian faith known within the open pages, and his spirituality appears frequently throughout the book, from using bible quotes to illustrate his points to making a covenant with God prior to starting the program.  Dino begins with some compelling evidence of how he has helped others with his plan followed by a brief overview of his philosophy.  In Part 1, Dino spends quite a bit of time discrediting popular diet fads (particularly the low carb craze) and debunking commonly held myths about diet and health; he ends with a discussion of body image and self-esteem.  Some of the numbers on body image in particular were startling, especially with respect to young girls (for example, a study showing that \\"forty-two percent of first to third grade girls wanted to be thinner\\").  On the other hand, I found much of the information to be very basic, although those brand new to embarking on a healthy lifestyle may find it to be more useful.  In Part 2, \\"Laying Out the Truth,\\" Dino focuses on facts about topics such as how the body burns fat, the obesity epidemic in America and around the world (it's not just us!), and realistic thinking and expectations.<br /><br />Part 3 is where Dino begins to specifically address his plan, which he lays out as a 40-day guide to personal fitness.  Promising to use a KISS method, which he defines as \\"keep it safe and simple,\\" he does a nice job of helping you to prepare for change by using a worksheet to identify goals and motivations.  As mentioned previously, he asks you to make a covenant with God by signing a \\"Commitment Form\\" prior to starting the program, and he includes \\"Relationship with God\\" as one of the factors to be evaluated before, during, and after the program.  In the next section, Dino leads you through self-assessment measures in a variety of areas; the goal is to obtain baseline numbers for factors such as basal metabolic rate, body measurements, body abilities, and body fat percentage.  Some of these assessments involve fairly complicated formulas that were a bit intimidating, although Dino leads you through them in as straightforward a manner as possible.<br /><br />Following the assessments, Dino moves on to his eating plan.  There is nothing fancy here; Dino simply helps you to understand how many servings of each type of food you need.  It does get a bit complicated, however, as Dino breaks this down more specifically into issues such as counting grams of carbohydrates and protein.  Finally, Dino moves on to his exercise plan, the bulk of which is made up of what he calls the Movement Series.  Although there are only 4 categories of movements, Dino's terminology is sometimes hard to follow--e.g., the \\"lower body\\" component includes upper body work, he alternately refers to the categories as A/B or 1/2, etc.  However, the basic tenet of the program is that each category contains several exercises, and for each exercise, there are seven different levels of difficulty.  As you move through the 6-week program, you progress on to the more challenging exercises, although I was confused by the fact that Dino describes different exercises for different weeks of the plan.  Additional components of the exercise program are warm-ups, stretches, active rest, flexibility, and the heart and lung series (a.k.a. cardio training).<br /><br />At the end of the book, Dino includes comprehensive journals and log sheets to use with the program.  At times, I found the level of detail contained in these forms to be fairly confusing; I think that in his effort to impart a great deal of helpful information, Dino failed to stick with his \\"keep it simple\\" motto here.  A few of the logs were fairly clear-cut and thus more useful, including the daily pedometer log and the cardio master log.  Overall, however, I found that despite the basic simplicity of Dino's eating and exercise plan, it is presented in a rather complex format.  For those who are motivated to make changes, this book certainly does contain a wealth of fundamental information as well as practical advice, but with one major caveat:  I strongly feel that the applicability of this book is limited to a Christian audience.  Dino makes no attempt to hide the fact that he sees a relationship with God to be a vital component of his program (which he also refers to as ESP Fitness, or emotional, spiritual, and physical fitness); those who do not associate their spirituality with their fitness are not likely to benefit from this manual.  I gave this book 4 stars largely for its helpful content, but my rating would be lower in the areas of simplicity of message and readership range.ut and thus more useful, including the daily pedometer log and the cardio master log.  Overall, however, I found that despite the basic simplicity of Dino's eating and exercise plan, it is presented in a rather complex format.  For those who are motivated to make changes, this book certainly does contain a wealth of fundamental information as well as practical advice, but with one major caveat:  I strongly feel that the applicability of this book is limited to a Christian audience.  Dino makes no attempt to hide the fact that he sees a relationship with God to be a vital component of his program (which he also refers to as ESP Fitness, or emotional, spiritual, and physical fitness); those who do not associate their spirituality with their fitness are not likely to benefit from this manual.  I gave this book 4 stars largely for its helpful content, but my rating would be lower in the areas of simplicity of message and readership range.	2005-04-18
US	52571463	REDRPCK4I2WI9	0399152326	488819459	The Runes of the Earth (Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Overall, a nice return to the world of Thomas Covenant	The Runes of the Earth is subtitled The Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 1, and it is author Stephen R. Donaldson's return to the series after more than 20 years.  Our last glimpse of Thomas Covenant was to witness his death, and thus this new work focuses on his companion, Linden Avery.  This story picks up 10 years after the previous book ended, and we see Linden living her current life as director of a psychiatric hospital with Covenant's wife Joan in her care.  As one might expect, Linden is soon drawn to return to The Land, arriving millennia after her last visit to face many changes which she is unable to comprehend.  She meets up with an insane old man, Anele, a Haruchai, Stave, and a Stonedowner, Liand, all of whom become her companions in her new quest.<br /><br />It has been many years since I read the original Covenant novels, and I found that there were quite a few things I had forgotten in that time.  Although Donaldson provides an excellent \\"What Has Gone Before\\" prelude at the start of this book, I found that I relied heavily on the Glossary to re-familiarize myself with the language of The Land.  For this reason, I think that in order to derive maximal pleasure from The Runes of the Earth, most readers will want to read the prior two chronicles first (even though this might not be an absolute necessity).  Also, it took me a little while to get used to seeing The Land solely through Linden's eyes, although by about halfway through the story, I was totally hooked.  I now eagerly await the remaining books in this series and fervently hope that Donaldson can continue to provide us with high-quality entertainment in his tales of The Land.	2005-04-14
US	52571463	RRSNPAGX9DO89	0152023402	969938827	Animal Kisses (A Touch and Feel Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Both of my nieces loved this one--a fun little book!	Animal Kisses is a cute little touch and feel book that will bring enjoyment to a variety of ages.  Each 2-page layout features a different type of colorfully illustrated animal, and part of each animal is textured for the reader to feel.  For example, the cat page asks \\"Do you like scratchy cat kisses?,\\" and the cat's tongue is a sandpaper-like material.  Other textures include smooth, sticky, velvety, and even squeaky for the pig (although, like other reviewers have said, you do have to press the pig's nose just right in order to get it to squeak).  My 3-year old niece loved reading the book and was able to tell me which kisses were her favorites, and even my 1-year old niece enjoyed touching the pages.  This is a fun, cute little book that is appropriate for both younger and older toddlers; highly recommended!	2005-04-13
US	52571463	R3MWJ62IO8919X	0060726571	844404006	Oblivion: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fans of the movie Memento will love this book!	When I first picked up this book, I never expected to finish it in one day!  Main character Nick Petrov is a famous private detective, and I found myself quickly drawn into Nick's newest case and then the mysterious events of his own life which follow.  Using a technique reminiscent of the movie Memento, author Abrahams introduces memory loss into the plot and then has Nick work backwards to reconstruct the events of his life that he has forgotten.  I especially liked how the author clues the reader into part of the mystery while Nick remains in the dark; as the story progresses, however, Nick and the reader piece together the remainder of the puzzle together.  In sum, this book's unique premise kept me thoroughly interested and engaged.	2005-04-12
US	52571463	R33DPRLNUT45X6	0590446894	714205766	The Magic School Bus in the Time of the Dinosaurs	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful educational book for a variety of ages!	I wasn't familiar with the Magic School Bus series until I visited my family this past weekend--my 3-year old niece absolutely loved this book!  Unconventional teacher Mrs. Frizzle takes her students on an archeological dig, but she then decides to give them a real look at dinosaurs by loading them onto her magic school bus and traveling back in time.  The main body of the story is only about 5 lines per page, making the book appropriate for reading to younger children, but there is also a wealth of additional information included in surrounding insets, making the book ideal for an older beginning reader as well (and fun for adults, too!).  The pictures are extremely detailed and colorful, and the illustrated children portray a variety of ethnic appearances.  Given my niece's reaction, I'd highly recommend this book for aged 2-3 and up.	2005-04-07
US	52571463	RQW8AGZE3R5FB	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sticklers Unite!	\\"Sticklers Unite!\\" is the rallying call of author Lynne Truss, who appeals to like-minded readers to share her outrage.  If you've ever seen a misplaced apostrophe to indicate a plural (e.g., \\"Book's for Sale\\") and have wanted to scream, this book is definitely for you!  The entire style of the book is over-the-top, thus it is intended solely for those who feel quite strongly about punctuation issues.  In author Frank McCourt's forward, he refers to Lynne Truss's \\"bone-dry humor,\\" and there is definitely plenty of that; \\"bone-dry sarcasm\\" might even be more appropriate, as Truss compares those who notice punctuation gaffes to the little boy from the movie THE SIXTH SENSE who could see dead people (and don't forget, he sees them \\"ALL THE TIME\\").<br /><br />As far as her actual recommendations go, I found Truss's rules and guidelines to be pretty consistent with what I learned both in school and during brief stints as writing and grammar tutors.  One point of confusion arises from the fact that Truss is British:  unfortunately, the British and American systems of punctuation do not always coincide.  In particular, after reading the section on use of punctuation with quotation marks, I remained perplexed about exactly what was appropriate here in the US.  Overall, however, I found this book to be not only an amusing read but also a validating one, perfect for a stickler like myself.	2005-03-25
US	52571463	RON4DWURN6E9W	006072563X	366470663	Goodnight Steve McQueen: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun British fiction for both men and women	This book was quite reminiscent of High Fidelity:  a 20s-something music fan avoids getting a \\"real\\" job by working in a video store, resulting in a lack of progress in both his life in general and his relationship with his girlfriend in particular.  The main character in question, Steve McQueen--or Danny, as he's more commonly known--is not always likeable, yet you can't help but root for him when he tries to give his nearly-dead music career one last shot.  Although I felt frustrated with Danny at times, I enjoyed many of the other characters, including wise Vince, gullible Matty, quirky Kostas, and of course lovable Sheila.  In addition, there were definitely some laugh-out-loud moments throughout, and thus I was thoroughly entertained.  I would recommend this book, especially to anyone who has ever taken a risk to make their \\"dream\\" job a reality.	2005-03-22
US	52571463	R1RMTXYW54GXVT	1400062527	623020428	In the Night Room	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Classic Straub:  sometimes confusing, always enjoyable	I picked up this book without realizing that it was a sequel to Straub's last novel, Lost Boy Lost Girl, which I had not read; however, I was already familiar with the main character, Timothy Underhill, from Straub's earlier works.  Here, Straub goes one step further in blurring the lines between reality and fiction, to mixed results.  On the one hand, In the Night Room is an engaging, suspenseful tale laced with genuine grief as well as truly poignant moments.  On the other, I couldn't help but to feel a bit confused by the elaborate storyline, which includes email messages from dead classmates, a hierarchy of the afterlife, and angry guardian angels.  Sometimes I feel as if maybe I'm just not quite smart enough to keep up with Straub, as I don't always \\"get\\" what he is trying to say.  Still, I enjoyed this book and plan to go back and read Lost Boy Lost Girl to fill in the backstory.	2005-03-18
US	52571463	R3VAU08BSAHOX7	0345470613	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A classic Tyler tale of family dysfunction in Baltimore	Pauline and Michael's first meeting could have been straight out of a fairy-tale:  on December 6, 1941--the day Pearl Harbor was attacked--Pauline has an accident on the street, and she and her friends walk into Michael's grocery store for help.  After this chance meeting, both are smitten, and they soon rush into a hasty, wartime wedding.  Unfortunately, the marriage that follows is anything but \\"happily ever after.\\"  Emotional, sentimental Pauline and stalwart, logical Michael simply appear to be mismatched, but by the time they realize this, it's too late to do anything about it.  Each chapter of the book chronicles a particular period in Pauline and Michael's lives.  Following their courtship, we fast-forward to the couple as young parents of one child and a second on the way.  Several years later, the family has grown to three children and has moved the the suburbs.  Next comes one of the most significant events in the family's life: the oldest daughter, Lindy, leaves home at only 17 years old.  Lindy's disappearance has a major impact on all members of the family, but it fails to bring Pauline and Michael any closer to moving from being \\"amateurs\\" to \\"experts\\" at their marriage.<br /><br />The subsequent chapters of the book create a significant departure, making the story less about a marriage and more about the individual characters.  Michael, who had played a smaller role in the first half of the book, is featured more in the second half.  While I suspect that the author intended him to be a sympathetic figure, I did not find him to be so.  Futhermore, I felt like the final chapters of the book did little to enhance the reader's understanding of what was going on amongst this group of disparate characters known as the Anton family.  The book ends where it began--December 6th, 50 years later--and I found this ending to be disappointing.  Author Anne Tyler has a rather disjointed, rambling style, and while I've enjoyed many of her earlier books, this novel left me wondering \\"what was the point?\\"  However, Tyler's prose is very readable as always, and the story did provide some truly insightful moments.  If you are a fan of Tyler, you may like this book, but I did not enjoy it as much as her other works.ft me wondering \\"what was the point?\\"  However, Tyler's prose is very readable as always, and the story did provide some truly insightful moments.  If you are a fan of Tyler, you may like this book, but I did not enjoy it as much as her other works.	2005-03-12
US	52571463	R3QE9226PYY29E	0060734450	479538690	Astonishing Splashes of Colour	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An interesting perspective on grief and loss	The main character of this novel, Kitty, tends to view things in terms of color, and she lives in a world akin to Neverland (the title is taken from a description of the same).  The book opens with Kitty waiting for her son outside a school, but the reader quickly senses that there is something not quite right about both the situation and Kitty herself.  In a manner quite similar to another first-time novel, She's Come Undone, Kitty begins to unravel, with her reality and fantasy worlds becoming hopelessly intertwined.  Still, she makes an effort to process her losses, from the more recent shared loss with her supportive yet distant husband (who lives in his own apartment next door and is unable to cope directly with Kitty's grief) to deficits tracing back to her family of origin, which includes a domineering father, an absent mother, and a much older sister who Kitty never knew.  Over the course of the story, Kitty's behavior becomes increasingly bizarre, but the conclusion offers a hint of hope and redemption.  Although I would be hard-pressed to say whether or not I \\"liked\\" this book, I found it to be an interesting, worthwhile read that I would recommend to others, particularly those looking for a unique, thought-provoking reading group selection.	2005-03-07
US	52571463	R2FDFEQQLUBMN3	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Completely irreverant and totally hilarious	From the staff of The Daily Show, this hysterical look at the history of democracy in America is written in the format of a textbook--not one you'd ever see in an actual classroom, of course.  But just like in the \\"real\\" version, the chapters of America (The Book) are complete with pie charts (Reasons for Delcine in Participation in Democracy: 17%-Game was on), somewhat accurate timelines, fun-filled sidebars (Samantha Bee's apologetic notes about Canada are particularly funny), fact-filled \\"Were You Aware?\\" boxes (\\"Did You Know?\\" having already been taken and trademarked), and finally, both discussion questions (\\"If you lived in a monarchy, would you rather be the king or a slave? Why or why not?\\") and classroom activities (\\"Found a country.\\").<br /><br />It didn't take me long to realize that I was going to love this book.  In fact, I laughed my way through the table of contents, or \\"Study Guide\\"--which explains what you'll learn from each chapter--but really lost it when I got to the end of Thomas Jefferson's Forward (I won't reveal the joke, just that it involves Halle Berry and TJ's...appetites).  Everything about the book is funny, from the many precious one-liners to the more detailed features (one of my favorites was \\"The Cabinet: Yes-Men of Freedom\\").  Along the way, you might actually learn something about our nation's history, but I wouldn't recommend sharing this book with the kids, as unlike on Comedy Central, there is nothing to bleep out the profanity here.  Like the show, however, the book's irreverance--which takes shots at both sides of the political spectrum, albeit with a decidedly liberal slant--never comes at the cost of its humor.  If you are a fan of The Daily Show, this book will definitely provide additional hours of laugh-out-loud entertainment; highly recommended.	2005-02-27
US	52571463	R2LNN5PH8895ND	0060726091	302467589	The Reunion: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An engrossing and  ultimately disturbing novel	The focus of this novel is a group of disturbed young teenagers, who, in the late 70s, shared some months together in a progressive adolescent psychiatric center known as \\"The Unit.\\"  There is Simon, an awkward young man tormented by a horrible mother; Danny, a surprisingly charming teenaged rapist; Carrie, a hardened beauty with a sexual abuse history; Alex, a highly disturbed, androgynous young woman with violent tendencies; Lydia, a grossy overweight teen with a history of arson; Isabella, seemingly normal but with a completely dysfunctional family; and finally, Innes, the newest patient admitted to the dynamic.  Twenty-seven years later, an out-of-the-blue phone message from Isabella to Innes sets off a chain reaction to uncover horrifying untold details about the shared past of this ecclectic group.<br /><br />First time author Sue Walker has created an engrossing mystery surrounding The Unit, allluding to a horror at which the reader can only begin to guess.  However, her frequent shifts in both narrative voice and time--e.g., switching between the 1970s and present-day--are somewhat choppy and a bit disorienting at times.  In addition, it is not clear why she chose to concentrate on certain characters while others, like Carrie (a major player in The Unit's disasterous events), fade quickly into the background.  Finally, as other reviwers have mentioned, Walker fails to provide sufficient insight into the psychiatic disturbances of her young characters to fully explain both their conduct as both children and adults.  Still, this is an original, interesting story that is worth reading.	2005-02-26
US	52571463	R1DSQOMY7C4ALN	0028630238	160639501	Betty Crocker Best Bread Machine Cookbook (Betty Crocker Cooking)	Books	5	77	77	N	N	Great variety of breads plus easy to follow instructions	This excellent bread machine cookbook covers a wide variety of bread types, from standard loaves to multigrains to fruit breads to related items such as rolls, pizza, and coffee cakes.  The instructions for each recipe are clearly broken down into easily understandable steps; although some of the breads involve decorative touches that appear difficult, simple sidebar illustrations make these fancy finishes a breeze.  The full-page photographs accompanying many of the recipes definitely make your mouth water as well as give some wonderful suggestions for how you can use each type of bread (however, as an earlier reviewer mentioned, I would have preferred to see every recipe illustrated).  Overall, I would recommend this cookbook to anyone looking for bread machine recipes ranging from the simple to the more creative.	2005-02-21
US	52571463	RHXSX783B35ZI	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An odd but ultimately worthwhile little book	I have to admit, when I first started reading this book, I came very close to giving up on it altogether, something which I rarely do.  The early pages of the novel introduce Quoyle, the main character (whose first name is never revealed), describing him in terms which are so painfully pathetic that it is difficult to read.  Quoyle is a failure in virtually everything he does, but a tentative friend ship with a man name Partridge lands him an occasional job at a newspaper.  By the second chapter, however, Partridge is gone, leaving Quoyle to meet and surprisingly marry a woman who causes him nothing but pain.  Two disagreeable children later, Petal is gone, and Quoyle's long lost Aunt convinces the family to move back to the ancestral Newfoundland.  At first, the change of setting does little to improve the story--the sad conditions of this odd little family are almost too much to bear--but eventually, the novel comes into its own on Newfoundland's cold shores.<br /><br />Once in Newfoundland, Quoyle undergoes a remarkable--if somewhat unbelievable--transformation.  A half-hearted journalist at best, he blossoms in his new role as reporter of the shipping news.  At the same time, he begins to learn how to act in social relationships, including an unlikely friendship with an aloof widow named Wavey.  Although the other characters go through periods of growth as well--the Aunt comes to terms with her own tragic past, Quoyle's daughters become well-adjusted little girls, etc.--ultimately, the novel becomes the love story of Quoyle and Wavey, two figures who have had their hearts scarred by others.  Finally, everything in the book is set against the backdrop of the fishing community, from the lifestyles of the characters to the quotes from The Ashley Book of Knots which precede every chapter.  Although I still can't quite understand why this book won a Pulitzer Prize, it is definitely a worthwhile read.	2005-02-17
US	52571463	R32DB6CBRLE5SS	0345437586	186213588	Healing Mudras: Yoga for Your Hands	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Simple hand gestures for coping with stress and more	I have another book on mudras that I like ([[ASIN:1578631394 Mudras: Yoga in Your Hands]]), but when I found this book at a used book sale, I decided to purchase it as well.  For those who may not know, mudras are hand gestures, often incorporated into yoga practice (think placing the hands together in &#34;prayer,&#34; or anjali mudra).<br /><br />In Healing Mudras: Yoga for Your Hands, author Sabrina Mesko describes how the use of simple hand gestures, or mudras, can help you cope with many of life's challenges, from preventing stress to healing a broken heart to calming your mind.  The book is divided into sections on Soul, Body, and Mind, with each section offering at least 15 individual mudras.  &#34;Soul&#34; includes meditation-focused mudras such as Happiness, Love, and Trust, whereas the &#34;Body&#34; section focuses more on specific ailments (eg, Protecting Your Health, Preventing Burnout, Eliminating Fatigue, etc.).  Finally, the &#34;Mind&#34; mudras address mostly emotional well-being, including Releasing Guilt, Overcoming Anxiety, Diminishing Worries, and Removing Depression.  Each individual mudra is given a 2-page layout which includes an overview of benefits, meditation points for the mudra (ie, chakras, colors, and mantras), and a large photo captioned with clear, concise directions for performing the mudra.<br /><br />Mesko recommends practicing mudra for just 3 minutes a day to start, eventually building up to a 31 minute daily practice.  Although I haven't engaged in a regular mudra practice as she suggests, I have found that taking a few minutes to perform these simple hand movements does leave me feeling more calm and centered.  I also like incorporating an occasional mudra into the yoga classes that I teach.<br /><br />As compared to the other book on mudras that I own, I like the full-page photos here as well as the additional variety of gestured offered.  If you are looking for a simple, easy method to add a bit of self-care and inner focus to your daily life, this book is an excellent place to start.s to your daily life, this book is an excellent place to start.	2005-02-14
US	52571463	R2K2UU3R218G0Q	B0002EJN34	728586115	Yoga Sanctuary: A Guided Hatha Yoga Practice for Home and on the Road	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Amazingly versatile CD set for enhancing home practice	I've been practicing yoga at home for several years now and occasionally attend classes, but Yoga Sanctuary was my first yoga CD purchase. So far, I am thrilled with the versatility of this amazing CD, as it lets me tailor my practice to meet my wants/needs perfectly. The set includes two CDs, each containing 6-7 separate tracks varying in length from about 6 to 16 minutes. You can follow the guidelines included for suggested practices or mix and match to create your own. The first CD, Solar, focuses mainly on more active, standing postures, whereas the second, Lunar, consists of more relaxing, restorative poses. Here is a more detailed breakdown of the tracks:<br /><br />SOLAR<br /><br />1-Sun Salutations. Three classic sun salutations are performed at a nice, even pace with long holds in down dog; the section finishes with a few warrior poses to prepare for the next track.<br /><br />2-Dancing Warrior. This is the only segment I didn't like, as I felt it moved a bit too quickly--you transition from a vinyasa to warrior 1, warrior 2, and reverse warrior.<br /><br />3-Standing Poses. Here the postures are held for a nice, long time, allowing you to really feel the effects. The poses include triangle, warrior 2, side angle, several variations of wide-legged forward bend, and pyramid to finish.<br /><br />4-Standing Pose Flow. As in Track 2, this segment includes standing poses interspersed with vinyasas, but the pace is more reasonable. Poses here include pyramid, triangle, half moon, warrior 1, standing splits, and crescent.<br /><br />5-Balance Poses. A nice sequence of both standing and seated balance poses, including tree, dancer, boat, firefly, and crow.<br /><br />6-Abdominals. In this section, you do only two moves: a reclining straddle and an abs bicycle. However, the latter is repeated FIFTY times. This sounds grueling, but I actually found the steady, rhythmic pace to be quite soothing even though I was working hard.<br /><br />7-Backbends. A progressively more difficult sequence which starts with cobra and moves on to locust, bow, camel, bridge, and upward bow.<br /><br />LUNAR<br /><br />1-Full Body Warm-Up. This segment begins in standing forward bend and contains some great warm-ups for the spine and upper body.<br /><br />2-Forward Bends and Twists. Performed entirely on the floor, these poses feature lengthy holds.<br /><br />3-Hip Openers and Twists. Another floor segment which includes happy baby pose, double pigeon, seated twist, and two seated wide-legged forward bend variations.<br /><br />4-Inversions. This track includes plow, deaf man's pose, and several variations of shoulderstand (no headstand or handstand).<br /><br />5-Meditation. In this segment, you practice ujjayi breathing while focusing on quieting the mind.<br /><br />6-Savasana. This final relaxation is designed to be performed at the end of every practice.<br /><br />These CDs are led by Shiva Rea, a well-known, experienced yoga instructor. Shiva has a very calm, pleasant voice, and she cues very well, but the set also includes a large, detailed poster of her practicing the poses to aid in following along. She frequently makes statements such as \\"breathe into your feet\\"--some people tend to not like this type of language, but I found that her imagery enhanced the practice. Furthermore, she is extremely encouraging and repeatedly reminds you to respect yourself and your own limits. She is accompanied by new-agey type background music which includes guitar, flute, and ocean waves. For the most part, this set would be appropriate for experienced beginners, but there is enough here to challenge intermediates and even more advanced students. Overall, I am very pleased with this purchase--highly recommended!more difficult sequence which starts with cobra and moves on to locust, bow, camel, bridge, and upward bow.<br /><br />LUNAR<br /><br />1-Full Body Warm-Up. This segment begins in standing forward bend and contains some great warm-ups for the spine and upper body.<br /><br />2-Forward Bends and Twists. Performed entirely on the floor, these poses feature lengthy holds.<br /><br />3-Hip Openers and Twists. Another floor segment which includes happy baby pose, double pigeon, seated twist, and two seated wide-legged forward bend variations.<br /><br />4-Inversions. This track includes plow, deaf man's pose, and several variations of shoulderstand (no headstand or handstand).<br /><br />5-Meditation. In this segment, you practice ujjayi breathing while focusing on quieting the mind.<br /><br />6-Savasana. This final relaxation is designed to be performed at the end of every practice.<br /><br />These CDs are led by Shiva Rea, a well-known, experienced yoga instructor. Shiva has a very calm, pleasant voice, and she cues very well, but the set also includes a large, detailed poster of her practicing the poses to aid in following along. She frequently makes statements such as \\"breathe into your feet\\"--some people tend to not like this type of language, but I found that her imagery enhanced the practice. Furthermore, she is extremely encouraging and repeatedly reminds you to respect yourself and your own limits. She is accompanied by new-agey type background music which includes guitar, flute, and ocean waves. For the most part, this set would be appropriate for experienced beginners, but there is enough here to challenge intermediates and even more advanced students. Overall, I am very pleased with this purchase--highly recommended!	2005-02-08
US	52571463	R2KP5P6Z9UWHLF	0805059709	734233588	Yoga Mind, Body & Spirit: A Return to Wholeness	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Wonderful yoga reference manual!	Since I first began practicing yoga several years ago, I've read a ton of different books on the subject, and so far, this is one of my favorites.  Author and yogi Donna Farhi takes some of the best elements from other works and combines them into an extremely readable, practical format.  For example, she begins by reviewing the eight-limbed path of yoga and then focusing on a discussion of the \\"ten living principles\\" - basically, these are moral and spiritual guidelines from yogic philosophy.  She then moves on to the asana limb, or the practice of yoga postures, and introduces seven \\"moving principles\\" (breathe, yield, radiate, center, support, align, engage) to assist the reader in gaining a greater body awareness within the poses.  Farhi also reviews anatomical information in a way that is much more simple and more accessible than in The Anatomy of Yoga (although this is also a wonderful book).<br /><br />The second half of the book centers around the yoga asanas themselves.  Farhi groups the poses into chapters on standing postures, sitting postures, back bends, arm balances and upside-down poses, and restorative postures and breathing practices.  Each chapter begins with incredibly useful information on properly aligning the body, including many wisdoms which I had never seen before.  The descriptions of the individual asanas are also enormously helpful; many include variations for those unable to attain the full posture.  I particularly liked the suggestions included under the \\"Having Trouble?\\" section, as these anticipated common complaints in many of the poses; those who are pregnant will also appreciate the prenatal guidelines given for every pose.  For the more difficult postures such as upward bow and reclined hero's pose, Farhi offers prepartory positions, often using various yoga props.  Finally, the simple black and white photos provide multiple illustrations for each asana, and I found the companion photos showing \\"correct\\" versus \\"incorrect\\" versions of the poses to be especially beneficial.<br /><br />The book ends with a chapter on \\"Putting It All Together\\"--ie, sequencing the postures into specific yoga practices.  This was the one section of the book that I found to be a bit less helpful, partly because the shortest suggested sequence is an hour long and partly because only the names of the asanas are included here, requiring the reader to flip back to earlier sections of the book for the full pose descriptions.  Overall, however, I felt that I learned many new things from this book, and I would highly recommend it to yogis of all levels.s of the poses to be especially beneficial.<br /><br />The book ends with a chapter on \\"Putting It All Together\\"--ie, sequencing the postures into specific yoga practices.  This was the one section of the book that I found to be a bit less helpful, partly because the shortest suggested sequence is an hour long and partly because only the names of the asanas are included here, requiring the reader to flip back to earlier sections of the book for the full pose descriptions.  Overall, however, I felt that I learned many new things from this book, and I would highly recommend it to yogis of all levels.	2005-02-02
US	52571463	RF3WFSB6F2XJK	0345465253	936069995	Twisted: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Kellerman departs from Delaware but gets back to his roots	Most of author Jonathon Kellerman's previous novels feature Dr. Alex Delaware, a LA-area psychologist who assists the LAPD in solving homicides.  Being a psychologist myself, I've been a big fan of the Delaware series, but I felt that the most recent Delaware novels had grown stale.  In his current novel, Twisted, Kellerman takes a character who appeared in two of his past works, Billy Straight and A Cold Heart, and makes her the protangonist, thus breathing new life into his writing.<br /><br />Like Alex Delaware's friend Milo Sturges, Petra Connor is a homicide detective.  At the end of A Cold Heart, we saw her become romantically involved with her enigmatic partner, Eric, but at the start of this book, we learn that Eric has been sent overseas to work in anti-terrorist activities.  Petra, left flying solo both professionally and romantically, is assigned to supervise a genius intern working for the department.  When the intern, Issac, comes to her to report that six seemingly unconnected homicides share both the same weapon of choice and the same murder date, Petra takes a break from her current case--a mass shooting which left four teenagers dead--to investigate.<br /><br />This novel has everything that made the earlier Alex Delaware novels so engrossing:  several interesting plotlines going on at once, intriguing characters with an air of mystery about them, and superb suspense leading up to a surprising but believable conclusion.  Petra is a tough but likeable character, and the glimpses into her and Eric's relationship make them both seem more human.  The conclusion left plenty of openings for future novels featuring Petra, Eric, and even Issac; although I'd miss Dr. Delaware, I'll definitely continue to read any future Petra Connor books.	2005-01-22
US	52571463	R2CE55YOHTYSWC	0970700601	662465400	Anatomy of Hatha Yoga: A Manual for Students, Teachers, and Practitioners	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A wealth of information for the serious yogi	I am a mostly casual yogini, probably at an advanced beginner to intermediate level, but I am always interested in expanding my knowledge and improving my form.  As you can see from the reviews which precede mine, this book comes highly recommended, and I must add my own kudos.  Author David Coulter has done an amazing job of breaking down a huge amount of scientific information on anatomy and communicating it in a readable, relevant form.  In each chapter, Coulter first presents applicable anatomical concepts and then relates these concepts to specific posture groups.  He frequently guides the reader through brief asana exercises to better illustrate particular areas of focus in the body; I found these exercises to be especially helpful.  Clear black and white photos accompany many of the text's asana descriptions, and the various anatomical illustrations provide supplemental information.  I admit that some of the more detailed anatomical discussions were well over my head, but this is due to my own shortcomings, not those of the author.  Even with this limitation, I found this book to be extremely educational; yoga teachers and more advanced practitioners are likely to derive even more benefit from this comprehensive manual.	2005-01-18
US	52571463	R2I3VMDSXN4IAO	0451213041	133578578	The Road to the Dark Tower: Exploring Stephen King's Magnum Opus	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Must-read for all fans of King's remarkable Dark Tower epic	In The Road to the Dark Tower, author Bev Vincent does an amazing job of bringing Stephen King's epic Dark Tower series to life.  After having recently finished the last book in the series, I was feeling a bit down that my time in Mid-World was truly over, but Vincent allowed me to re-enter this wonderful fantasy world, if only for a short time.  Unlike Robin Furth's The Dark Tower, A Concordance, which is more of an encyclopedia-type reference book (yet excellent in its own right), The Road to the Dark Tower truly takes the reader on a journey back through these wonderful books.  Vincent reviews each Tower novel in turn, doing an excellent job of striking a balance between summarizing and providing detail.  He also discusses other King works with Dark Tower links, including Hearts in Atlantis and Dark House.<br /><br />Vincent goes on to provide overviews of all of the major characters in the series; while this section is also done very well, it is at times a bit repetitive with the book summaries.  I found the chapter on epics and influences to be particularly intriguing; it was interesting to learn that Browning's famous poem was only one of many stories featuring a knight named Roland.  I also enjoyed Vincent's musings on both the art of creation and the idea that the Dark Tower series might be King's \\"magnum opus.\\"  Several helpful appendices are included, although I found the timelines to be a bit confusing.  Overall, however, I found this to be an extremely well done, very enjoyable book--perhaps the best testament to this fact is that I'm now eager to go back and read the entire series from the very beginning.  A must-read for all of us captured by the allure of King's Dark Tower.	2005-01-16
US	52571463	R2B7BHXKVYLJ8U	185648663X	903410707	Swiss Ball: For Strength, Tone and Posture	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very good introduction to stability ball work	I recently purchased a stability ball, and I wanted a book which would provide a general introduction to exercises on the ball.  For the most part, this book met my needs. It begins with some good preliminary information on ball work, equipment, safety issues, and alignment.  The first exercise chapter features some excellent stretches with the ball designed to be used during either the warm-up or cool-down portion of your workout.<br /><br />The following chapters are each broken into color-coded sections on basic, intermediate, and advanced exercises.  Although I liked this format, I was disappointed to see that the intermediate and advanced exercises often required the use of additional equipment--dumbbells, ankle weights, stability cushions, etc.  Each chapter also focuses on a particular area of the body, including core (back work), abdominals, spinal mobility and strength, upper body, and lower body; specialized populations--senior citizens and pregnant women--are featured in the final two chapters.<br /><br />I found the exercises to be clear, with easy-to-follow, concise instructions and helpful photo illustrations.  The upper body chapter contained a particularly nice variety of exercises, most of which required only dumbbells as extra equipment.  Overall, this book provides a nice reference for those new to stability ball work.	2005-01-16
US	52571463	R3KI3QTD0S44FM	0892819995	555983739	Yoga on the Ball: Enhance Your Yoga Practice Using the Exercise Ball	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Decent introduction to adapting yoga postures to the ball	I have practiced yoga for several years now but just recently purchased a stability ball, so I wanted a book that would teach me how to adapt yoga postures to ball work.  Author Carol Mitchell takes awhile to actually get into the exercises, as she goes into quite a bit of detail about yoga tradition, yogic breathing, and posture work.  While this information might be helpful to someone totally new to yoga, I found it to be overly long-winded and was eager to get started.<br /><br />Mitchell begins the practice section with yoga sun salutations modified for the ball.  Although the sun salutation series is traditionally performed in a relatively brisk flow to warm up the body for more challending asana work, I found the ball version to be rather awkward, making it much more difficult to move smoothly through the series.  Mitchell then moves on to several chapters of postures on the ball; I found these sections to be much more relevant.  It was interesting to learn how the ball could be used to enhance the classic poses, sometimes making the poses easier and at other times making them more difficult.  For every exercise, Mitchell presents at least two and often three different levels of difficulty, which allows you to customize your practice.  Each chapter focuses on a particular practice goal:  flexibility and strength, balance, advanced work, and relaxation.  At times, the ball seems to be used only for the sake of incorporating it somehow--eg, holding the ball over your head--rather than as an integral part of the yoga posture.<br /><br />A final chapter, \\"Putting It All Together,\\" explains how to combine the various asanas presented to create a practice customized to your particular level and goals.  Although each speciality practice is illustrated, I found the diagrams somewhat hard to follow, both here and elsewhere in the book.  A nice bonus at the end of the book is an appendix which reviews all of the major muscle groups and their functions; this was perhaps the most clear and concise summary of this topic which I have ever seen.  Overall, this book provided a decent introduction to mostly beginner's level yoga work on the stability ball, and it is probably best suited to those new to both yoga and ball work.  Rating:  3 1/2 stars.the most clear and concise summary of this topic which I have ever seen.  Overall, this book provided a decent introduction to mostly beginner's level yoga work on the stability ball, and it is probably best suited to those new to both yoga and ball work.  Rating:  3 1/2 stars.	2005-01-16
US	52571463	R1DCRQC9HI1R4K	0689863632	585696392	Fuzzy Fuzzy Fuzzy! (Boynton Board Books)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Another winner from Boyton!	I purchased this book for my 8-month old niece, as I thought it would be a perfect start to her Boyton library.  The book is oversized, with large, colorful drawings and only a few words per page, as the main point is to feel the different textures on each animal pictured.  It turned out that my 2 1/2 year old niece was interested in this book as well--she loved feeling the pages herself as well as making others close their eyes and guess at the textures.  Another beautiful Boyton book appropriate for babies and toddlers alike.	2005-01-10
US	52571463	R1FLU9J1LBLGRO	0310248809	108763164	Stories Behind the Great Traditions of Christmas (Stories Behind Books)	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Perfect for lovers of history and the Christmas season	In this book, author Ace Collins traces the history behind various popular Christmas traditions, from caroling and ornaments to mistletoe and yule logs.  Collins provides various theories on the origins of each tradition, some of which date back to even before Christ's birth.  He also does a nice job of explaining the rise in popularity of each activity as it moved into the mainstream of Christmas celebrations.  Finally, the book carries a strong Christian message, as Collins talks about connecting each modern tradition back to its original roots in commemorating Christ's birth.  This is a perfect little book to teach children about the history behind Christmas or for adults looking to find greater meaning in this much-commercialized holiday.	2005-01-09
US	52571463	RYOB0266I6T2A	0066211379	936615390	The Good Neighbor: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A crumbling marriage set against a historical backdrop	I have mixed feelings about this book.  On the one hand, the author effectively uses a historical backstory to add interest and to enhance the plot, but on the other, the present-day characters are unlikeable and their seem fairly stereotypical.  Francie and Colt Hart have been married for 7 years, but their bickering has become commonplace.  On a rare weekend drive from their home in NYC to the \\"country\\"--aka rural Pennsylvannia--they spy an old house with which they both fall in love:  Francie, because it appeals to the poet within, and Colt, because it is a status symbol.  They purchase the house and prepare to move in, but they soon find themselves in trouble with Francie's brother, a new neighbor, and a long-lost relative of Colt's as well.<br /><br />Francie, Colt, and Francie's brother Michael are all irritating characters; it is difficult to root for any one of them in this story.  Each experiences a transformation that is not quite believable given the circumstnaces.  This is even more true for their neighbor, Randy, who acts in a manner which is completely out of character--although this is acknowledged within the book, it still seems unreasonable.  More interesting and engaging are the house's original occupants, the Musgroves, who built Adencourt one hundred and fifty years before.  The author weaves the tale of the Musgroves into that of the Harts through occasional \\"historical digressions\\" as well as hints sprinkled throughout the house.  This aspect makes the novel readable, making the book worthwhile for the patient and tolerant reader.	2005-01-07
US	52571463	R17XRIZRQ79J4Y	0060595809	533980738	Persuading Annie	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A modern-day version of the Jane Austin classic	In Persuading Annie, author Melissa Nathan has paid homage to Jane Austen's classic novel Persuasion with not only her title but also her cast of characters.  Annie, a young, motherless college student from a wealthy family, is persuaded to reconsider her plans to elope with her college sweetheart, Jake, by her interfering stepmother.  Seven years later, Annie is still unhappily single, and the family business is rapidly going downhill.  Re-enter Jake, a business consultant, to not only save the family but possibly Annie as well.<br /><br />Although Nathan mirrors Austen's style of using chance encounters, misunderstandings, and various group outings to futher the plot, her writing lacks Austen's wit as well as its unique charm.  This leaves the reader with a very average, somewhat amusing boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back story which ultimately fails to live up to the classic novel which inspired it.	2005-01-03
US	52571463	R2R3DR3AFDE96S	0060195916	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib	Books	4	22	28	N	N	A detailed account of our government's actions post-9/11	In Chain of Command, investigative reporter Seymour Hersh presents a well-researched, incredibly detailed account of America's actions immediately after the 9/11 attacks and leading up the Abu Ghraib scandal during the spring and summer of 2004.  Based on meticulous interviews with hundreds of sources, Hersh presents a compelling argument that our government mishandled Iraq from the start.  He suggests that the Bush administration stubbornly held on to the notion that Iraq was a threat despite evidence to the contrary, including reports that Saddam's nuclear and other weapons programs had been dismantled, lack of internal Iraqi support for a democratic uprising, and suggestions that other nations (such as Iran and Syria) posed greater danger.  Hersh ends with a commentary on our President which expresses outright fear at the dangerous course of action which Bush has chosen to take.<br /><br />Although I found Hersh's line of reasoning to be completely convincing and his data to be above reproach, there were a few things which I did not like about this book.  First of all, I found the organization of the book to be puzzling, as Hersh begins with the Abu Ghraib incidents and then traces the back story; chronological order would have been both simpler and more readable.  Furthermore, although Hersh was obviously painstaking in his research, his reliance on quotes felt at times too heavy and interfered with the comprehensibility of his assertions.  Finally, if you are a supporter of Bush and/or consider the war in Iraq to be just, no doubt you will take issue with this book and its conclusions.  However, I believe that all readers who go into this book with an open mind will walk away with at least a trace of doubt as to whether America has followed the right path.  Highly recommended.	2004-12-20
US	52571463	R9YL0P90JN3NK	0786808381	616434005	Baby Einstein: Babies	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Perfect first book for your little one!	From the time they can focus on faces, most infants are completely fascinated with other babies.  This book provides the perfect opportunity to indulge in this fascination, as it is filled with baby images.  Like all of books in the Baby Einstein series, the images are a mix of photographs, drawings, and even famous works of art, thus providing your child with an exposure to wide array of image types.  Given the small size and sturdy board pages, this is a perfect first book for infants, but it would also appeal to older children, especially those with a new baby brother or sister.  Overall, an excellent buy and a great value.	2004-12-10
US	52571463	R3UAIEKLHU95DZ	0375805613	754053510	The Monster at the End of This Book (Sesame Street) (Big Bird's Favorites Board Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	From my childhood to today's children	This adorable book was my favorite and most memorable read from my own childhood many years ago.  Children will delight in Grover's growing anticipation and fear of coming into contact with the \\"monster\\" at the end of the book as well as his Herculean efforts (building brick walls, etc.) to keep the reader from continuing on.  I challenge you to find the child who does not laugh hysterically while gleefully defying Grover's repeated command \\"Don't turn the page!!!\\"  This timeless little story is an absolute  joy for parents and children to read together.	2004-12-10
US	52571463	RS4PS1W1R3PDP	1563054426	719187199	Barnyard Dance! (Boynton on Board)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A wonderful story and activity book combined!	Another winner from Sandra Boynton!  This wonderful book combines her classic, adorable animal characters with square dance-like commands to make it a participatory activity.  Even the youngest of toddlers should be able to follow the simple instructions such as \\"bow to the horse - bow to the cow.\\"  As they get older, they will love repeating the fun sound effects as well, from \\"cheep cheep cheep!\\" to \\"quack quack quack!\\"  Of course, each stanza also rhymes beautifully, further delighting the little ones and making it a joy to read for parents.  When my niece was about 20 months old, she never tired of hearing this book and doing the dance--there was nothing cuter than seeing her do her little bow to start it off!  This book will provide hours of fun for both the kids AND the adults--highly recommended!	2004-12-10
US	52571463	R1VYSVPRVQ1Y0U	0787974676	118902680	College of the Overwhelmed: The Campus Mental Health Crisis and What to Do About It	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Should be required reading for parents of incoming freshman!	I am a psychologist who works in a college counseling center, and I wish that I could make this book required reading for the parents of every new student entering college.  Main author Richard Kadison--Chief of the Mental Health Service at Harvard University Health Services--does an excellent job of outlining the many issues which college students face and the ways in which these issues are potentially hazardous to every student's mental health.  He also provides extremely useful suggestions for what parents can do to help their college student as well as practical tips for the college students themselves.  The only sections of the book which I found to be less effective were the chapter and appendix which focused on what colleges should be doing to address the mental health crisis on campus; this information seemed out of place in a book largely intended for parents.  However, the remaining two appendices were more relevant, providing a summary of data from the 2002 American College Health Association Survey results as well as an overview of common medications used to treat psychological conditions.  Overall, this a well-done, tremendously valuable book; highly recommended.	2004-12-07
US	52571463	R2ZSAMMHY9DY0J	0743252071	15272169	1: Stephen King's The Dark Tower: A Concordance, Volume I	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Excellent enclyclopedia-style reference book for DT I-IV	The Dark Tower: A Concordance is an excellent reference manual cataloging the first four volumes of Stephen King's magnificent Dark Tower series. After a thorough introduction to main character Roland and his quest, author Robin Furth organizies each section of the book alphabetically for easy reference.  Topics covered include characters, places, speech, and more, and actual pages from each book are cited.  I found it fascinating to read about so many details from the series, many of which I had either forgotten or missed entirely.  However, as Stephen King mentions in his introduction, this book was never meant to be published; rather, Ms. Furth was commissioned to create a guide which King himself could use as he finished the series.  Given this, the book reads more like an encyclopedia than a literary analysis, and the many cross-references can be cumbersome at times.  Still, it is obvious that Ms. Furth put an enormous amount of time and effort into this volume, and it is definitely worthwhile reading for the die-hard Dark Tower fan.	2004-12-06
US	52571463	R3FEVLHA0RML1Z	0060738847	818360717	The Homer Book: The Simpsons Library of Wisdom	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Perfect holiday gift for the Simpsons fan in your life!	This slim little volume features everything you'd ever want to know about one of your favorite Simpsons characters, Homer.  The book opens with a timeline reviewing all the significant milestones in Homer's life, from his childhood antics with friend Barney to many of the family trials which have been chronicled on the show.  The various \\"Homer's Haunts\\" sections describe in detail some of Homer's most-visited sites, including the nuclear power plant and (of course) Mo's.  Also featured are significant people in Homer's life, from his workplace friends and enemies to the people who have almost ruined his marriage (eg, Jacques, Mindy).  You'll also get a review of his many, many jobs as well as countless food-related references (including \\"Things That Sound Like Food but Aren't\\").  Finally, the book begins and ends with Homer's Top 40 and his Bottom 40, respectively.  A great stocking stuffer for any die-hard Simpsons fan!	2004-11-15
US	52571463	RKV20A11A6RBC	0060738855	39337633	The Bart Book: The Simpsons Library of Wisdom	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Perfect holiday gift for the Simpson's fan in your life!	This slim little volume features everything you'd ever want to know about one of your favorite Simpsons characters, Bart. The book opens with a timeline reviewing all the significant milestones in Bart's life. The various \\"Bart Zones\\" sections describe in detail some of Bart's most-visited sites, including the school cafeteria and his tree house. Also featured are significant people in Bart's life, from his school friends and enemies to the girls who have stolen his heart. Of course, a book without Bart wouldn't be complete without some mischievousness, so you'll also get some ideas for making prank telephone calls as well as suggestions for Bart's \\"Dream Tattoos.\\" Finally, the book begins and ends with Bart's Top 40 and his Bottom 40, respectively. A great stocking stuffer for any die-hard Simpsons fan!	2004-11-15
US	52571463	R3662SD26EJY43	0060096675	958304531	Behaving Like Adults: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A difficult subject is handled with intelligence and truth	This is the second book I've read by Anna Maxted, and I'm beginning to notice a pattern.  She begins each book with a light, breezy tone, introducing us to a female main character who is in her late 20s, successful, and who initially comes across as somewhat superficial and shallow.  However, a life-altering event intervenes, and then the main character (as well as the book itself) becomes more complex and substantial.<br /><br />In this case, the main character is Holly Appleton, owner of the successful dating company Girl Meets Boy.  The intervening event is a date rape which she experiences when she agrees to go out with Stuart, one of her clients, in an attempt to move on after the recent end of her engagement to Nick, the ex-fiance who is still living with her in their shared home.  Following the date rape, Holly becomes incapacitated, and her life begins to fall apart bit by bit:  Nick finally moves out, her business starts to go under, and Stuart keeps reappearing in her life.  Even after Holly finally acknowledges the rape to her sister, Claudia, and reports Stuart to the police, she still can't quite get herself back together; it takes the rest of the book for her to realize that only SHE has the power to reclaim her life.<br /><br />As a psychologist, I believe that the portrayal of Holly's confusion about the rape was dead on, from her reluctance to acknowledge her experience as a sexual assault to her feelings of guilt and shame to her unreasonable fears and behaviors.  Happily, the book also displays an accurate picture of what happens when a rape is reported as well as the beneficial role which therapy can play in healing.  Although the subject of the book is both deep and difficult at times, in the end, optimism prevails, and so does Holly.	2004-11-13
US	52571463	R1S8REVQFJNQVB	0060096691	711830171	Being Committed: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An intelligent story of relationships, past and present	This was my first Anna Maxted novel, and when I started reading it, I thought it was yet another lighthearted \\"Brit lit\\" read.  Main character Hannah Lovekin is not a big fan of Chinese food or marriage--so it is a surprise when her sweet, tolerant boyfriend of 5 years, Jason, pops the question.  Hannah turns him down without hesitation, but when she begins to miss him--especially after he gets engaged to someone else less than 4 weeks later--she rethinks her decision.  She then promises Jason that she will do whatever it takes to repair their relationship, but Jason's list of requirements is a bit more than she bargained for.<br /><br />At this point, the carefree tone of the novel changes, and more serious issues are introduced.  One of Jason's demands is that Hannah make peace with her ex-husband, Jack, with whom she shared five months of matrimony at age 20.  Jack and Hannah's marriage came to a screeching halt due to a mix of infidelity, immaturity, trust issues, and misunderstandings, and they have not spoken in 10 years.  In the process of trying to sort things out with Jack, Hannah must come to terms with a series of issues from which she has been running all of her life, including her parents' marriage, her estranged relationship with her mother, and her own ability to express real emotion.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book more and more as I continued to read further.  I found Hannah's transformation to be completely believable, as Maxted does a nice job of laying out the process for the reader and detailing all of the factors involved.  Although this was my first Maxted book, it definitely won't be my last, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this 4 1/2 star novel to others.	2004-11-01
US	52571463	R1PT4J49KBY9VG	0762104511	899670341	The Pilates Program for Every Body (Reader's Digest)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Pilates-inspired program for stretching	The back cover of this book describes it as follows:  \\"unique program combines breathing with controlled stretching.\\"  This is a very accurate description; although this book does NOT offer a traditional Pilates matwork program, it uses Pilates-inspired (as well as yoga-inspired) breath and alignment work to facilitate greater flexibility through simple stretching exercises.  There is a particular emphasis on the spine, including healthy posture both during exercising and throughout everyday life.<br /><br />The format of the book is spiral-bound and oversized with its own self-standing easel:  great for practicing the exercises but a little awkward for simply reading.  The photographic illustrations are colorful, clear, and informative, and they utilize a wide variety of models (including an elderly woman), each of whom displays impeccable form.  I believe that this book would be best suited to those who are looking to begin a simple stretching program as a means to increase flexibility, decrease physical tension, alleviate chronic conditions, and avoid injury.	2004-10-28
US	52571463	R1D0Y3LHPIOEAI	0789484005	105844206	Pilates: Body in Motion	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Excellent introduction to Pilates matwork	Although I am not new to Pilates, I picked up this book hoping to increase my knowledge of technique and form, and I was not disappointed.  This book provides an excellent introduction to the Pilates method for both new and more experienced Pilates practitioners.  It begins with an excellent review of Pilates terms and concepts using clear and concise language.  Next, the book offers four different levels of matwork programs, from introductory (which contains modified versions of the exercises for those just starting out and who have less flexibility), beginner (a short starter program for once you have mastered the introductory series), intermediate, and advanced.<br /><br />The main highlight of this book is the full-color, 2-page (or 4-page for more complicated moves) photographic layouts for EACH exercise.  Every layout provides information on repetitions, cautions, and visualizations to facilitate your performance.  The wonderfully descriptive photos and accompanying narrative instructions offer a step-by-step guide on exactly how to perform each movement, while the \\"at a glance\\" section provides both a visual summary and breathing guidelines.  The layouts also include a \\"head-to-toe checklist\\" which emphasizes salient points, and a final photograph offers pointers on what NOT to do during the movements.  At the end of the book, there are additional exercises on using the Pilates magic circle to provide further upper body work.<br /><br />If you are looking for a comprehensive guide to the Pilates method, this book (along with Brooke Siler's The Pilates Body) should be one of your top choices.  Highly recommended!	2004-10-28
US	52571463	R2PGATO0NXZ7A9	0897932854	828841612	The Complete Guide to Joseph H. Pilates' Techniques of Physical Conditioning	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Provides a unique perspective on the Pilates method	This book provides a unique perspective on the Pilates method in that it was written by an athlete and focuses on athletes in particular.  It includes more detailed information on general fitness physiology than I have seen in any other Pilates book and makes this information accessible through easy-to-understand illustrations.  There is a particular emphasis on posture and alignment issues with plenty of descriptive information about these concepts.  I particularly liked the author's use of the \\"B-Line\\":  instead of imagining pulling your navel to your spine, he encourages you to focus on a spot a few inches below your navel and to concentrate on flattening this entire lower ab area.<br /><br />Another nice aspect of this book is that the author includes prerequisites for each exercise; these are helpful in determining whether you are physically prepared to take on that exercise.  The routines in the book begin with warm-ups and moves to strengthen weak abdominals before moving on basic, intermediate, and advanced level Pilates workouts.  Unfortunately, the pictorial depictions of the Pilates movements were not as useful as they could have been, but the narrative descriptions were very well done.  Some of the exercises include use of weights and therabands for an added challenge.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very well put together book on Pilates that is probably most appropriate for those who already are athletes or regular exercisers and wish to expand their repertoire to include Pilates.  Serious fitness enthusiasts will especially appreciate the inclusion of exercise charts to help you record your progress with this extraordinary method.	2004-10-28
US	52571463	R3ICP35SHFOW8F	0446607819	515907777	Reliable Sources (Alex Bernier Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A solid mystery novel	This mystery novel is the first in a series featuring Alex Bernier, a female reporter in her mid-20s working for a small newspaper in a fictional Upstate New York college town (clearly modeled on Ithaca, home of Cornell University).  Alex gets caught up in a series of supposed suicides at the local gorge and their apparent connection to one of her recent features about a gay bashing incident on the college's campus.  With the help of her friends Mad, a womanizing fellow small-tower, and Gordon, a hot-shot reporter recently demoted from the New York Times, Alex slowly begins fitting all of the pieces of the puzzle together, and, not surprisingly, finds herself right in the middle of the action.<br /><br />Although this was a solid and engaging mystery, I'm not sure if I will go on to read other books in the Alex Bernier series.  I wasn't really able to connect with the main character, who I found to be overly flippant and whose emotions did not ring true to me, although perhaps this was just due to our age difference (Alex is 25; I'm 36).  However, this book is likely to appeal to most fans of the mystery genre, especially 20-somethings who could relate to Alex better than I was able to do so myself.	2004-10-28
US	52571463	R3CCJSITKSPJKF	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	9	18	N	N	An incredible series comes to an end:  O Discordia!	I still can't believe it:  The Dark Tower series is over.  Did the final book live up to my expectations?  Yes and no.  King is an absolute master, and to criticize this amazing masterpiece of his in any way would feel sacrilege to me.  But as King himself says in the author's note which ends the book, \\"It was all about reaching the Tower...and that has finally been accomplished.\\"  Say true.  There is no way to sufficiently recap this book in a manner that would do it justice (and, at the same time, not give anything away), so I'm just going to share some of my own highlights:<br /><br />*Upon opening the cover of this book, the first thing that struck me was the wonderful illustrations by Michael Whelan, who also illustrated the first Dark Tower novel, The Gunslinger.  At last, someone was able to portray the characters almost exactly as I've seen them in my mind's eye:  from depicting Roland as a rugged cross between Clint Eastwood and Viggo Mortensen to capturing Eddie's brash and cocky demeanor right down to bringing Oy's gold-flecked eyes to life.<br /><br />*Although many will disagree, I felt that King's own continuing presence in the series was completely justified and made absolute sense:  how could King's own fate NOT be intermingled with that of Roland and his ka-tet?  I'm convinced that no other author but King could pull this off; his ability be completely self-deprecating was one of the factors which made this unconventional strategy work so well.<br /><br />*When the movie The Shawshank Redemption was released in the 90s, I think that many non-King fans were astonished to discover that King could write such an emotionally evocative story.  Those of us who have been with King from the beginning have long recognized that injecting real emotion into his works is one of his great talents, and in this aspect, The Dark Tower does not disappoint:  I cried frequently and unexpectedly throughout the book.<br /><br />*A minor disappointment to me was that the fates of Walter, Mordred, and the Crimson King all seemed terribly anti-climatic.  With Mordred in particular, his role appeared to gradually fade away over the course of the story, making me wonder if he had been a necessary character at all; also, I'm not sure that the Crimson King's appearance was completely consistent with his portrayal in other related King works.  But as I said, these issues were mostly insignificant, at least to me.<br /><br />*Finally, I would be remiss if I did not mention the ending.  Like others, I found myself feeling a bit frustrated with Roland's fate, although the redemption suggested by the final two pages served as an atonement for me; also, if you remember that ka resembles a wheel, the ending makes more sense.  Furthermore, I was genuinely moved by a few of the final lines in the book's penultimate ending (King actually suggests stopping here-as if any true fan could!-rather than following Roland into the Tower):  \\"And will I tell you that [they] lived happily ever after?  I will not, for no one ever does.  But there was happiness.  And they did live.\\"<br /><br />Perhaps the highest praise I can give for this book and the six which preceded it is this:  I can't wait to go back and read the entire series from the beginning.  \\"The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.\\"  Stephen, thank you-you made us smell the dust too.ates of Walter, Mordred, and the Crimson King all seemed terribly anti-climatic.  With Mordred in particular, his role appeared to gradually fade away over the course of the story, making me wonder if he had been a necessary character at all; also, I'm not sure that the Crimson King's appearance was completely consistent with his portrayal in other related King works.  But as I said, these issues were mostly insignificant, at least to me.<br /><br />*Finally, I would be remiss if I did not mention the ending.  Like others, I found myself feeling a bit frustrated with Roland's fate, although the redemption suggested by the final two pages served as an atonement for me; also, if you remember that ka resembles a wheel, the ending makes more sense.  Furthermore, I was genuinely moved by a few of the final lines in the book's penultimate ending (King actually suggests stopping here-as if any true fan could!-rather than following Roland into the Tower):  \\"And will I tell you that [they] lived happily ever after?  I will not, for no one ever does.  But there was happiness.  And they did live.\\"<br /><br />Perhaps the highest praise I can give for this book and the six which preceded it is this:  I can't wait to go back and read the entire series from the beginning.  \\"The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.\\"  Stephen, thank you-you made us smell the dust too.	2004-10-18
US	52571463	R4NAZDD7BIBP2	0066211115	10483428	Islands	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Classic Simmons southern setting showcases her unique style	Anne Rivers Siddons is one of my favorite authors, and to date, I have read all of her books.  I am drawn in to her sweeping southern sagas and her unique writing style with its heart-breaking depiction of human emotions.  Islands fits Siddons's usual mold, this time with a setting of Charleston and the surrounding islands and with an assembly of characters known as \\"the Scrubs\\"--a group of middle-aged friends who look upon each other as family.  As always, Siddons is most skilled in her portrayal of tragedy, as catastrophic events both environmental and personal threaten the cohesion of her little group.  And like in her previous novels Peachtree Road and King's Oak, Siddons's ending is catastrophic yet ultimately full of promise.<br /><br />Despite the above, I did not enjoy this new novel as much as I've liked Siddons's past works.  There were times when I found that her style felt stale--e.g., when main character Anny first sees the plantation home of her soon-to-be husband, Lewis, it takes her breath away, but then she has a very similar response upon seeing the beach house shared by the Scrubs, this time adding the vapid comment \\"I need to be here.\\"  Furthermore, at the end of the book, Siddons again uses the \\"bell jar\\" concept borrowed by Sylvia Plath and already featured in several of her previous novels, most notably Heartbreak Hotel.  Overall, this book simply failed to produce the page-turning excitement which I have experienced with Siddons in the past.<br /><br />Although I was somewhat disappointed in this novel, Simmons does not fail to entertain, and I would not hesitate to read any of her future works.  Just be aware that if you have enjoyed Simmons in the past, you may find some of the repeating themes in this novel to be a bit tired as I did.	2004-09-29
US	52571463	R1D2MNIKAW6LMZ	0060723866	281990749	The Assistants: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Revenge of the Nerds, Hollywood-Style	The Assistants tells the story of five young people trying to make it in Hollywood while working thankless jobs for those who have already done so.  There's Micheala, who works for an aging television star while she desperately--and I mean desperately--tries to break into the business before her time (and looks) run out; Rachel, the gullible small-town girl with a screenplay who Micheala takes under her wing; Griffin, the efficient, handsome, and ostensibly homosexual professional who is the real brains behind the talent agency where he works; Jeb, the oversexed angry young man looking for revenge on the many employers who have terminated him; and finally, Kecia, a genuinely kind but confused daughter of a jazz star who turns to food for comfort while working for Hollywood's newest young heartthrob.<br /><br />Each chapter of the novel is told from the perspective of one of the assistants, but their stories overlap.  For the first half of the book, I found myself drawn into these stories, yet I found the characters themselves to be too over-the-top.  As the novel progressed, however, I began to laugh out loud at times.  The assistants--who have formed a sort of support group--band together and begin to fight back against their employers.  Of course, we all want to see the underdog win, and this made for a rousing finish in what otherwise might have been a thoroughly standard novel.<br /><br />With its emphasis on hard-working, dedicated young people receiving abuse and a lack of respect from their ungrateful employers, The Assistants reminded me quite a bit of The Nanny Diaries.  If you enjoyed the latter's insider's look into a little-thought about occupation and the hazards therein, you are likely to enjoy this book as well.	2004-09-20
US	52571463	R24I5XZJTPYN95	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A classic King collection	Skeleton Crew is Stephen King's second collection of short stories, a follow-up to the also-excellent Night Shift).  It contains many haunting, gripping tales, although those who are familiar with King's short story style will know that while some of his stories are amazing, some will leave you wondering \\"huh?\\"  For King fans, however, this book is a must-read.<br /><br />As in King's other collections, the best stories here are the longer, almost novella-type works.  Tales such as \\"The Mist\\" and \\"The Jaunt\\" combine the horror and sci-fi traditions to perfection.  Other excellent eerie stories are more in the psychological suspense genre, including \\"The Ballad of the Flexible Bullet\\" and \\"Survivor Type.\\"  Finally, this collection includes some true horror tales which will bring a chill to your spine, particularly \\"The Raft\\" and \\"The Monkey.\\"<br /><br />Although some of these stories come off a bit dated for today (e.g., \\"Word Processor of the Gods\\"), this is still a classic collection which should not be missed.  Highly recommended for King fans and others with a taste for the macabre.	2004-09-15
US	52571463	R1VVVN912Z85X2	0393050955	906502157	Opening Skinner's Box: Great Psychological Experiments of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Fascinating book highlights some of psychology's finest	Lauren Slater has done an excellent job of selecting some of psychology's most incredible experiments and making them eminently readable for those from all walks of life.  I'm a psychologist, and all of the most famous cases which first got me interested in the subject are included here, from Milgram's controversial studies of obedience to the horrific case of Kitty Genovese to remarkable theory of cognitive dissonance.  These names and terms might be unfamiliar to you, but if you have an interest in the way the human mind works, you are likely to find this book as fascinating as I did.<br /><br />A psychologist herself, Slater has a casual, irreverent style, and she has no fear about casting aspirations on some of the field's most revered members, such as B.F. Skinner.  Using colloquial and accessible language, she provides clear, concise overviews of each experiment, emphasizing only the most relevant and engaging facts.  She then infuses an even more informal voice into the narratives by doing extensive interviews with individuals who had a personal relationship with each scientist, including family members, former students, and fellow researchers.  Finally, Slater inserts herself directly into her work by taking steps to replicate some of the experiments.<br /><br />An intriguing, compelling work which allows you to draw your own conclusions; highly recommended.	2004-09-14
US	52571463	R2BXGZMVUHM3JI	0060564644	646479669	Hissy Fit	Books	4	64	68	N	N	A light read that goes beyond the trivial	The first few pages read like a typical \\"chick lit\\"-type book:  during her rehearsal dinner, main character Keeley discovers her fianc&eacute; and best friend inappropriately engaged, and she flies into a rage which gives the book its title.  Predictably, she seeks comfort from another close friend, Austin, the requisite gay character.  Beyond this point, however, Hissy Fit is anything but predictable.<br /><br />Enter Will, new in town and both single and rich--a perfect new love interest for Keeley, right?  Well, not exactly, as he has already fallen head-over-heels for a blond knockout, but he does hire Keeley's interior design firm to renovate a local mansion in order to win over his heart's desire.  In the midst of her hectic new work schedule, Keeley finds herself not only questioning her beliefs about love and fidelity but also longing to discover the fate of the mother who left Keeley and her father when she was just a child.<br /><br />This is a light read but with a breadth and depth rarely seen in this humourous genre.  You will laugh, you will think, but most of all, you will enjoy this book.	2004-09-07
US	52571463	R320UA5AC63305	0679428526	183974253	National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds: Eastern Region, Revised Edition	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Very handy reference book for the casual bird-watcher	While I don't consider myself to be a \\"birder,\\" I do enjoy watching the birds which come to visit my yard, and I like to be able to identify them.  I've found this book to be very handy in helping me to name the birds I see both in my yard and during my 40-minute daily commute.  The first part of the book contains clear, full-color pictures of each species, helpfully organized by both types of birds (eg, tree perching, upright land, etc.) and color, making it quick and easy to find the bird you are looking for.  The second half of the book offers useful narrative information which is both detailed and concise.  My one complaint about this book is that for most birds, there is only one photograph, making it hard to distinguish between male versus female, immature versus mature, etc.  Overall, however, this book has greatly enhanced my pleasure in backyard bird-watching.	2004-08-30
US	52571463	RZE5O0W2YZC1Z	0802139256	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Engaging story of faith and family	I had been hesitant to read this novel due to the many reviews which described it as a story about religion.  Therefore, I was pleasantly surprised to discover that this book is NOT about religion; rather, it is a compelling tale with a partial focus on faith but a major focus on family.  The story is narrated by 11-year old Reuben, who vividly brings to life his precocious younger sister, Swede, his stubborn older brother, Davy, and, at the heart of the family, his unrelentingly faithful father, Jeremiah Land.<br /><br />This novel is set in 1963, and it reminded me of other tales of earlier eras such as the classic To Kill a Mockingbird and the more recent The Poisonwood Bible.  But Peace Like a River was different from these other works in that it contains very little tragedy:  even when bad events occur in the story, they are viewed through a filter of the miraculous.  Ultimately, this is an uplifting, engaging first novel that is likely to appeal to readers who enjoy stories of hope, faith, and all that is positive in life; if you enjoyed The Secret Life of Bees, you're apt to like this one too.	2004-08-23
US	52571463	R3RBRCMINS8VR3	0312194404	697819185	Bachelor Brothers' Bed & Breakfast Pillow Book	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A so-so sequel but with some surprising revalations	After enjoying the first Bachelor Brothers Bed & Breakfast book, I decided to check out the sequel.  In particular, what I had most liked about the original novel was its focus on books and reading, so I was disappointed to discover the that sequel does not have the same emphasis:  occasional reading lists are included, but they are interpersed with recipes and a much more eccletic collection of anecdotes.  Whereas the first book was genuinely funny and quirky, it seems that in this follow-up work, the author tried TOO hard to be both humorous and unusual, and for the most part, his efforts fall flat.  Much of the book centers around a character who was only briefly mentioned in the original story, the eccentric local poet Solomon Solomon; the little that is of interest about the character is stretched way too thin here.  The only real bright spot in this book is that towards the end, there are some interesting revalations which provide a bit more information about Hector and Virgil's ancestry.  Whether it's worth it to read 172 pages of a mediocre novel for less than 20 pages of slightly more entertaining level is up to you, but I definitely wouldn't recommend this sequel to anyone who hadn't read the first book.	2004-08-14
US	52571463	R2DIPZVMWXZ9I9	0962713848	909042920	Relax and Renew: Restful Yoga for Stressful Times	Books	5	72	73	N	N	A comprehensive guide for using yoga to relieve stress	This book is written by Judith Lasater, renowned yoga instructor and physical therapist, and it centers around restorative yoga, a form of yoga practice aimed specifically and reducing stress through increasing relaxation.  Restorative yoga has its basis in the Iyengar tradition, which encourages use of props to allow one to relax more deeply into the yoga postures.  In this book, a wide variety of specialty props are used; Lasater helpfully breaks down the props into necessary and optional categories, and she offers suggestions for everyday objects which can be substituted for the traditional yoga equipment.<br /><br />The book is very well-organized into several general themes.  Part One provides an introduction to restorative yoga as well as a description of the most important posture, basic relaxation pose; it also includes both a general restorative practice and a practice for busy days.  Part Two focuses on specific issues, including lower back pain, headaches, insomnia, breathing difficulties, and jet lag.  The third section is designed specifically for women and offers practices for menstruation, pregnancy, and menopause.  Finally, Part Four provides additional information such as breath instruction and general stress reduction strategies, and several useful appendices conclude the book.<br /><br />The instructions for performing each pose are beautiful illustrated with clear black and white photographs, and the accompanying written directions are meticulously detailed, incorporating sections on setting up, being there (relaxing into the pose), coming back (getting out of the pose), benefits, and cautions.  For every posture sequence, Lasater offers both a summary of the poses involved and options for doing a shorter or longer practice.  The gentleness of the included postures makes this book completely appropriate for beginning yoga practitioners, but more experienced yogis will also benefit from adding a restorative component to their practice.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who is looking to release, let go, and relax.I highly recommend this book for anyone who is looking to release, let go, and relax.	2004-08-12
US	52571463	R36QSG9676YSIZ	1570624704	691447810	The Woman's Book of Yoga and Health: A Lifelong Guide to Wellness	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A excellent book on wellness throughout a woman's lifetime	This book is written by long-time yoga practitioner Linda Sparrowe in conjunction with Patricia Walden, a world-renowned yogi.  They have created a unique manual on health and wellness throughout the lifespan which is designed specifically for women.  Although the main focus is on yoga sequences, the book also includes general information on various health-related issues faced by women as well as tips and strategies for maintaining health.<br /><br />The book is organized into sections which correspond to each phase of a woman's life.  For example, Part Two, The Time of Awakening, is geared towards teenaged/young adult women and focuses on menstrual health and immune system support, whereas the final section, Wisdom from the Heart, is designed with older women in mind and concentrates on minimizing postmenopausal symptoms and other similar conditions.  Although each section does have an intended age audience, women of all ages are likely to find something of use in every chapter--for example, a younger woman struggling with depression might benefit from the depression chapter geared to postpartum women, whereas an older woman who suffers from headaches could obtain assistance from the \\"Relieving Headaches\\" chapter written as part of the Coming Into Fullness section.  There are also three general yoga sequences at the start of the book which are intended for all women; these sequences revolve around essential, energizing, and restorative themes.<br /><br />Beginning yoga practitioners will find the short introduction on how to use the book to be helpful.  Patricia Walden's training is in Iyengar yoga, which means that she utilizes a variety of props to make the poses more accessible.  Props are particularly recommended for restorative postures, as they allow you to relax more fully into the pose.  Easy-to-understand, detailed instructions and clear, precise photographs are used to describe every yoga pose.  Many of the poses also include information about positive effects, potential modifications, and any cautions.  Some sequences detail shorter practices with only 6 or so postures included, but others offer longer practices of up to 26 postures.<br /><br />This book is appropriate for female yogis of all levels, from beginning to advanced (although I should note that many of the sequences include headstand and/or shouldstand, postures that shouldn't be attempted by beginners without the aid of a yoga instructor). The book would make a wonderful gift for any woman with an interest in wellness issues, and I highly recommend it!fects, potential modifications, and any cautions.  Some sequences detail shorter practices with only 6 or so postures included, but others offer longer practices of up to 26 postures.<br /><br />This book is appropriate for female yogis of all levels, from beginning to advanced (although I should note that many of the sequences include headstand and/or shouldstand, postures that shouldn't be attempted by beginners without the aid of a yoga instructor). The book would make a wonderful gift for any woman with an interest in wellness issues, and I highly recommend it!	2004-08-12
US	52571463	RQUWNOBL38E9J	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast moving-story with a sudden, unexpected conclusion	I'm a fan of Koontz, although with some of his novels, I've felt that he missed the mark. When I started reading his newest work, The Taking, I was quickly drawn into the storyline: a mysterious rain turns suddenly ominous for residents of a small Southern California community. Koontz effectively uses short chapters (most average only about five pages) to create a fast-moving story, and I eagerly devoured the book, becoming more and more engrossed.<br /><br /> Once I got about halfway through the book, however, my interest began to wane. At this point, some of the secrets about the enigmatic &quot;taking&quot; of the town begin to be revealed, but rather than revel in this, I found myself to be disappointed. In an earlier work, Strangers, Koontz gradually disclosed information about an otherworld presence with thrilling originality, but here, the plot elements seemed all too familiar. I found myself thinking that Koontz had borrowed ideas from both Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers and Stephen King's The Stand; unfortunately, he captured the ridiculousness which was inherent in the movie based on the former while lacking the captivating emotional quality of the latter...until the very end, that is.<br /><br /> At first, the ending seemed to be yet another let-down: there is a sudden, unexpected resolution of the plight of the protagonists, a conclusion that is altogether too neat and too unsatisfying. However, Koontz sets the final chapter four months later, and in this way, it serves as a kind of epilogue to the story. Here Koontz reveals an alternate explanation for what occurred, one that took me completely by surprise and which added a level of intrigue previously missing from the book. For me, this unexpected, thought-provoking closing redeemed the novel's flaws. Furthermore, like almost of all of Koontz's works, this book was a definite page-turner (I finished it in two days), and ultimately, I found it to be well-deserving of a 4-star rating.<br /><br /> Recommended for Koontz fans and others with an interest in the unexplained.commended for Koontz fans and others with an interest in the unexplained.	2004-08-06
US	52571463	R1QAII2EADPRH8	0679767967	425061417	Back in the World: Stories	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Interesting stories cover a wide range of human experiences	In this short story collection, author Tobias Wolff utilizes his excellent narrative style to describe a wide range of people in a variety of different experiences.  For example, we see a husband and wife having a disagreement which turns ugly, a group of four friends each reflecting back on their finest hour, and the tension between two brothers of opposing circumstances.  Many of the stories have negative undertones, and themes of infidelity, drug use, and crime are rampant.<br /><br />I found these stories to be interesting and engaging, which I attribute largely to Wolff's skill in creating memorable characters.  Ultimately, however, I became frustrated with the incompleteness of each tale, as I was left wanting more.  Wolff tends to hint at certain plot twists--such as the possibility of an affair or sexual perversion--without ever offering any confirmation.  If you enjoy stories which rely on the imagination of the reader more than the imagination of the writer, you are likely to find greater appreciation of what this book has to offer.	2004-08-04
US	52571463	R305RH0USIRJOM	0312171838	697819185	Bachelor Brothers' Bed & Breakfast	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Perfect choice for a reading group discussion!	This is a charming little book that centers around twin brothers, Hector and Virgil, 50-something bachelors who run a Bed & Breakfast in a remote island location. Though word-of-mouth, they have attracted a customer base consisting entirely of fellow bibliophiles, and thus reading is a central theme throughout the novel.<br /><br /> The book is written as a series of reflections: each chapter is narrated by either Hector, Virgil, or one of their guests, whose musings make up the B&B's unique guest book. The brothers relate stories of their unconventional childhood with their single mother and MIA father as well as offer present day anecdotes about their entertaining guests, neighbors, and pets. Also interspersed throughout the book are recommended reading lists such as &quot;Hector's List of Favorite Authors for the Bath.&quot;<br /><br /> This quirky, whimsical novel is ideally suited to be a reading group selection and likely to be enjoyed by any book lover.	2004-08-04
US	52571463	R2DN984I4SM29D	0679753338	499546549	Nobody's Fool	Books	3	10	14	N	N	An candid window into small town America	NOBODY'S FOOL centers around the story of Donald Sullivan (Sully), a middle-aged man whose life has been a series of mishaps and poor choices. As the book opens, Sully, out of work due to disability, decides to quit his college classes and to try to make some money instead. This bad decision sets off one of Sully's infamous streaks of bad luck, a streak which eventually lands Sully in jail, amongst other problems.<br /><br /> This novel's main strength lies in its richly developed characters. We learn the most about Sully, the chief narrator, from his ongoing feud with his deceased alcoholic father to his fleeting regrets about his own parenting skills. Another prominent character is Sully's octogenarian landlady, Miss Beryl, who provides the point of view for both the opening and the closing of the story. The remainder of the town is replete with quirky characters, including Sully's one-legged drunken lawyer, Wirf; his slow-witted best friend, Rub; his womanizing boss, Carl; his surprisingly competent son, Peter; his nervous grandson, Will; and finally, his long-time lover, Ruth, whose family includes her brassy daughter Janey and her troubled granddaughter Tina.<br /><br /> Where this novel is less successful is in its rambling prose:  the author has the habit of going off on tangents and pontificating on various subjects which add little to the story. Despite this critique, however, the engaging characters sustain this novel, and like me, you will want to know how their lives turn out.	2004-07-27
US	52571463	R3C4MA2CDFYLYO	1565891694	74806291	Yoga Therapy for Headache Relief	Books	4	32	34	N	N	An alternate treatment approach for headache sufferers	I am a frequent sufferer of both tension-type headaches and migraines, and I also practice yoga several times per week. This attractive little square book provides an easy to follow yoga stretching routine that is appropriate for anyone, even those with no prior exposure to yoga.<br /><br /> The book begins with some basic information about headaches, including distinguishing between tension-type headaches and migraines and reviewing common causes of headaches. This material is presented in a simple, easy-to-read format, although it will probably already be familiar to those who have done prior research into their headaches. The authors then move into an overview of Ananda yoga, a copyrighted style which basically combines traditional yoga postures with positive affirmations.<br /><br /> Next come the yoga routines themselves. The book presents several options, including the Main Routine, a 20-minute daily practice to help prevent headaches, and the Intervention Routine, which can be used to decrease the discomfort from certain types of headaches in progress. The Main Routine consists of 15 total exercises which vary from standing in correct posture, yogic breathing, arm stretches, and neck rolls to seated and lying stretches. Exercises 9-15 include a simple affirmation such as 'I relax from outer involvement into my inner haven of peace.'  The only prop required is a blanket; a strap is optional for some of the poses. An additional chapter suggests more challenging postures such as ear-closing pose, shoulderstand, and plow for once you are ready to expand your daily practice. The Intervention Routine includes 5 exercises from the Main routine plus yogic breath and relaxation postures. Finally, the book ends with a review of other options for headache treatments, including medications.<br /><br /> These simple stretching routines will definitely help you to release tension from your muscles while relaxing your body and mind. Since I already practice yoga, I don't plan to do the entire routine daily, but I'm confident that adding these simple postures will have a positive impact on my headaches. This is an excellent resource for those who prefer a more wellness-focused model to traditional medical treatment.an to do the entire routine daily, but I'm confident that adding these simple postures will have a positive impact on my headaches. This is an excellent resource for those who prefer a more wellness-focused model to traditional medical treatment.	2004-07-27
US	52571463	R1C18033XVBMFG	1891696084	204161383	The Pilates Method of Body Conditioning: Introduction to the Core Exercises	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good overview, but not ideal for building a home practice	This book provides a good overview of the Pilates method for those interested in learning about performing a wide range of Pilates movements using various types of Pilates equipment.  However, because the average Pilates practitioner is unlikely to purchase most of the equipment featured, this book is less effective for those looking to build a home-based Pilates practice consisting mainly of matwork.  The information provided is clear and datailed, and as always, the photographs of Joseph Pilates at various ages are inspiring.  Still, most casual Pilates enthusiasts are likely to derive more practical information from a book such as Brooke Siler's The Pilates Body.	2004-07-12
US	52571463	R349TNKH6PVAQL	0345452593	660919237	Therapy	Books	3	9	12	N	N	This once-excellent series is rapidly loosing steam	Being a psychologist myself, I was excited to discover the Alex Delaware series many years ago. I enjoyed reading many of the earlier books--even those that I read out of order--and eventually, I began reading the new books as soon as they were published. Unfortunately, I've found the last several offerings in the Delaware series to be unsatisfying, and with Therapy, I'm almost ready to give up on the series altogether.<br /><br />Kellerman's current novel begins with a new murder case assigned to Milo, Alex's detective friend.  A couple in their early 20s is found murdered in a parked car, and the mystery of the female's identity adds to the mystery of the homicide.  Slowly, the clues lead Milo and Alex to a radio psychologist and a previous homicide.  As the book continues, the story expands to encompass prison rehabilitation, insurance scams, and even the Rwanda conflict of the mid-1990s.  While these additional plot elements are interesting, Alex and Milo's hypothetical discussions are becoming increasingly complicated and far-fetched.  In Kellerman's earlier books, the chain of events was much more believable.<br /><br />Although I still enjoy Kellerman's subject matter and writing style, the Delaware series feels stale to me.  The addition of a new love interest in Alex's life has only served to compound the problem, as Allison has quickly been relegated to Robin's minimal role.  Prior to this novel, Kellerman took a break from Dr. Delaware to write The Conspiracy Club, a psychologist novel which I felt was much more successful; as much as I hate to say it, perhaps we are nearing the time for Alex and Milo to be laid to rest.	2004-07-06
US	52571463	R19P7QEDW5NWXR	1400051886	436479909	Within Arm's Reach: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting multi-generational family saga	Within Arm's Reach is a novel which centers around three generations of the McLaughlin family.  The book opens with Gracie, a young, unmarried woman in her late 20s who has recently discovered that she is pregnant. Gracie's own pregnancy has made her interested in the history of her maternal grandmother, Catherine, who experienced multiple births as well as multiple tragedies over the course of her childbearing years.  The stories of Gracie and Catherine are contrasted against that of Kelly, Catherine's daughter and Gracie's mother.  Kelly is experiencing her own emotional turmoil based on her sense that she may have failed as a mother to Gracie and her sister, Lila, as well as failed as a wife to her husband, Louis.  Each of the five McLaughlin family members weighs in on the story from their own perspective, and towards the end of the book, an additional character, Noreen Ballan, provides a viewpoint from outside of--but still connected to--the family.<br />Ann Napolitano has written an interesting and engaging first novel, although the characters' motivations are not always easy to understand.  In particular, it is difficult to comprehend why Gracie and Lila would repeatedly make poor choices concerning their lives, and both of their parents seem to be self-destructive as well.  Furthermore, the story becomes plodding at some points, with little action despite the passage of time.  However, I still found this book to be worthwhile, and I look forward to Napolitano's future offerings.	2004-07-06
US	52571463	RIPZB5VR2VYRE	038507672X	813628276	The King of the Castle	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Another classic tale of suspense from Victoria Holt	King of the Castle is a classic Victoria Holt suspense novel:  a young heroine visits a strange locale, gets caught up in a series of mysterious events, and becomes romantically involved with someone who may be a murderer.  In this case, the protagonist is Dallas Lawson, who, at the age of 28 and unmarried, is left bereft after the death of her father.  In desperation, she accepts (under false pretenses) a commission which had been offered to her father three years before:  the restoration of paintings at a French chateau.  But of course, once she arrives, she finds much more than she bargained for:  the unsolved mystery of the lost family emeralds, which disappeared during the Revolution; a wayward teenage girl who may actually intend her harm; rumors that the Comte of the chateau murdered his wife; and of course, the enigmatic comte himself.  As always, Holt's storyline is both interesting and engaging, although those who have read many of her books may find the progression of the plot to be somewhat predictable.  However, the ending definitely comes as a surprise in this enjoyable historical thriller.	2004-06-30
US	52571463	RGL503VTT1FTS	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	5	16	25	N	N	WOW--all I can say is, we're NOT worthy!	I literally just finished this book, and I have to admit, I am blown away.  I discovered The Dark Tower series after the first three books had already been published and then eagerly awaited the fourth, which I found disappointing.  But Wolves of the Calla served to re-whet my appetite for the Dark Tower saga, and with Song of Susannah, I'm back to being a fully obsessive fan of this amazing piece of work.<br />This book picks up right where the last left off:  Susannah, held captive by pregnant alter-ego Mia, finds herself in 1999 New York City, where Mia has been called to have her child.  Eddie, anxious to save his wife, is desperate to find some way to re-open the Unfound Door so that he can follow Susannah to New York.  Meanwhile, there is still the problem of saving the rose by purchasing the vacant lot from Calvin Tower, a task that has been asigned to Jake and Pere Callahan.  With the help of the Manni, the Unfound Door is reopened to return the remainder of the ka-tet to America, but of course, all does not go exactly as they had planned.  However, the gunslingers prevail and their quest for the Dark Tower continues, with the final result resting on the impending birth of Susannah/Mia's baby and its connection to Roland.<br />If you have followed Stephen King's author notes while reading this series, you will know that King has claimed that he himself does not know how the story ends.  As I read Song of Susannah, I found this to be harder and harder to believe given the amazing way in which King weaves together elements from the earlier books.  Song of Susannah is a true penultimate work in which the pieces are slowly beginning to fall into place.  King's gradual revelations are truly masterful; he even manages to write himself into the story in an incredible mingling of fact and fiction.  I found Song of Susannah to be a delight to read, and I absolutely can't wait for the final installment of King's captivating, enchanting magnum opus.	2004-06-22
US	52571463	R2Q9S112YDLBDC	0060730315	72001534	Cassandra French's Finishing School for Boys: A Novel	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A bizarro world take on chick lit	On first glance, this novel appears to be yet another book of the \\"chick lit\\" genre:  protagonast Cassandra French faces professional and personal woes in modern day LA.  However, there are several surprises in store, with the first being that this book was actually written by a man.  In his author's notes, Eric Garcia explains that he is \\"surrounded by women,\\" suggesting why he may have written a novel which would appeal mostly to females.  Yet males may be drawn into this book as well given the black comedic elements revealed within the first few pages.  It seems that Cassie has become so fed up with the opposite sex that she decided to kidnap a few \\"boys\\" and train them to become men (hence the title).  Strange?  Definitely.  Funny?  Well, yes, that too.<br />The exploits of Cassie and her friends--street smart Claire and bimbo Lexi--are humorous enough, and the story is certainly engaging.  However, the plot elements were a bit TOO bizarre for me at times, from Cassie injecting the boys with morphine to keep them docile to her diasterous involvement with a top movie star.  And of course, there is the happy ending: although this is par for the course in most popular fiction, the sweetly perfect conclusion seemed rather out of place here.  To be fair, I must admit that I have never been a fan of black comedy, which mostly likely tainted my view of this novel.  If your tolerance for dark laughs is as low as mine is, you will probably find, as I did, that the more morbid aspects of this book detract from its humor.	2004-06-19
US	52571463	R1B1TBQX20OKUI	140220096X	164472143	Daughter's Keeper	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Compelling look at America's &quot;war on drugs&quot;	The main character of this novel, Olivia Goodman, is an outspoken young woman who drops out of college to travel to Mexico.  While there, she meets Jorge, a charismatic young man with whom she has a brief affair.  Olivia returns to the US, and to her surprise, Jorge soon turns up on her doorstep as an illegal alien.  Their life becomes a dreary routine of Olivia supporting them through her waitressing job while Jorge attempts--mostly unsuccessfully--to find work.  Jorge's desperation to become the breadwinner leads to his tangential involvement in a drug deal; unfortunately, his poor judgment results in not only his own arrest but Olivia's as well.<br />What follows is an interesting insider's view of America's legal system, particularly the &quot;mandatory minimum&quot; sentences which can result in lengthy jail sentences for innocent bystanders like Olivia.  However, the novel also contains a series of engaging character studies, as the story is told from various perspectives.  Olivia herself is confronted with the necessity of taking responsibility for actions in light of both her possible jail time and her impending pregnancy.  Her mother, Elaine, is torn between her disapproval of Olivia and her desire to help her child; Elaine must face the lack of maternal instinct which has clouded her entire relationship with her daughter.  Olivia's public defender, Izaya, is a jaded but brilliant attorney who is spurred on by Olivia's innocence as well as his growing feelings for her.  Finally, lesser characters such as Jorge and Arthur, Elaine's boyfriend, also impact the storyline with their unique viewpoints.<br />I found myself caught up in Olivia's story, silently rooting for her as she faced trial.  Although both Olivia and Elaine were not always likeable characters, it was easy to sympathize with them and the unfairness of Olivia's predicament.  At the end of the novel, Olivia and Elaine each emerge as very different people; while this was not entirely believable, it made for an appealing and enjoyable read.  Overall, I felt that this was a promising novel from an author who I would definitely read again.t made for an appealing and enjoyable read.  Overall, I felt that this was a promising novel from an author who I would definitely read again.	2004-06-16
US	52571463	R3DF849R0U5VSI	1573222755	892958037	Symptomatic	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another look at the struggles of being biracial	In Danzy Senna's second novel, she has again focused on the struggles faced by a biracial protagonaist.  This time, the narrator, a young female fresh out of college who is working in NYC, finds herself suddenly in need of a new place to live when a romantic relationship turns sour.  When a casual acquaintance from work, Greta, offers a subletting opportunity, the narrator's gratitude leads to an unlikely friendship.  Greta, also biracial, feels a kinship to this young woman whose skintone is so similar to her own, but Greta's affections are one-sided.  Rather, the narrator finds herself becoming increasingly obsessed with Vera, the woman from whom she is subletting.  The awkwardness and tension builds as this odd triangle leads to a quite unexpected conclusion.<br />I enjoyed this novel, which I read in a single day.  At times, I could actually feel the protagonist's discomfort, and I squirmed right along with her.  The surprise ending took me completely off-guard, but it provided a satisfying finish to what was a quick read.  More of a character study than a social commentary, I found this to be an engaging, thoughtful book.	2004-06-10
US	52571463	R36LCP12HF6IEW	0060574534	855472227	Love Monkey: A Novel	Books	4	4	8	N	N	The male version of "chick lit"	I've read my share of the chick lit genre, but this novel, told from a male viewpoint, was a refreshing change of pace.  The narrator, 32-year old Tom Farrell, is a self-described \\"manboy\\" whose life hasn't changed all that much from when he was 14 years old.  Being a single, hot-blooded male in NYC, most of Tom's time revolves around courting--and I use this term loosely--various women in the hopes that one of these liaisons will eventually lead to sex.  However, he has unexpectedly lost his heart to a co-worker, Julia, and making her happy suddenly becomes his primary objective.<br />This is a well-written, funny novel that is similar to (although not as good as) Nick Hornby's High Fidelity, which Tom references at length early in the story.  Some of the characters and situations are not quite believable, but I find that to be pretty much standard fare for light fiction reading.  In addition, there are some surprising twists thrown in, including a tragic backdrop and an atypical conclusion.  All in all, I found this to be an engaging, enjoyable novel, and I think it is likely to appeal to both male and female fans.	2004-06-09
US	52571463	R387FZQ55POEVF	187798826X	151242089	Don't Go Shopping for Hair Care Products Without Me	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Another useful reference guide from Paula Begoun	Paula Begoun, author of the infamous DON'T GO TO THE COSMETICS COUNTER WITHOUT ME, takes a look at another segment of the beauty industry, hair care.  As in her cosmetics book, Begoun reviews hundreds of products using her simple rating style.  In this book, her best buy categories are arranged by hair type, making it easy to find the exact product that is right for you.  Begoun also includes a wealth of general information on hair care, from how to blow dry to choosing the best hairstyle.<br />Although this book is clearly a great resource, I didn't find it to be quite up to par with Begoun's cosmetics guide.  First of all, Begoun has decided not to produce updated editions of the book, which means that newer hair care products released in the last 5 years are not included.  In addition, I found the information on individual hair products is more repetitive and less detailed than what she offered for cosmetics.  Furthermore, this book is not as well-organized as her cosmetics bible--Paula's Picks are not listed in the product entries, there is no glossary of product ingredients, etc.  And finally, I would have liked to see reviews of hair coloring products.<br />Despite its flaws, this book is still a useful reference tool and is definitely worth a look.	2004-06-03
US	52571463	R3RMTXCY7BS4DF	0060514957	121138293	Killer Smile	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Legal thriller set in Philadelphia	This was my first read by author Lisa Scottoline.  Given that I'm originally from Philadelphia, I was looking forward to reading this story set in the City of Brotherly Love.  In that respect, I was not disappointed, as the novel was peppered with numerous specific references to Philly landmarks-so many, in fact, that I think a non-Philadelphian might feel somewhat bewildered at times. Unfortunately, the story itself failed to meet my expectations.<br />The book opens with main character Mary DiNunzio, a young attorney, researching a case concerning deceased Italian immigrant Amadeo Brandolini.  Being a South Philly Italian herself, Mary is determined unravel Amadeo's enigmatic past (which includes his apparent suicide) and to get reparations for his estate.  As Mary becomes increasingly obsessed with Amadeo's life, her behavior becomes increasingly unbelievable, and the storyline itself becomes increasingly implausible:  Mary ignores her other cases, is involved in a series of bizarre events, and is able to solve the mystery of Amadeo's past through near-miraculous circumstances.  Finally, the various subplots-Mary's widowhood, her mother's illness, etc.-added so little to the main story that I wondered why they were included.  I might give Lisa Scottoline another chance, but I'd be unlikely to recommend this book to anyone other than perhaps a Philadelphia native.	2004-06-02
US	52571463	R29UVCTCE1U3E	0807062952	161606660	How We Live Our Yoga: Teachers and Practitioners on How Yoga Enriches, Surprises, and Heals Us	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Instructors and others share yoga's impact on their lives	This collection of short essays by yoga instructors, authors, and others details the many varied impacts of yoga.  Some of the stories are fun and lighthearted, such as the email exchanges between cousins Janet Bowdan/Roz Peters and Judith Lasater's reflections on yoga and parenting.  Others, like Adrian Piper's &quot;The Meaning of Brahmacharya,&quot; are more academic in nature and more geared for those interested in yogic philosophy.<br />For myself, the stories which I found most compelling were those which were born from tragedy.  In &quot;Brick by Brick,&quot; Samantha Dunn shares her discovery of kundalini yoga after a devastating horse accident left her badly injured.  Robert Perkins' &quot;Journey in Yama-Yama Land&quot; describes the depression he experienced after the death of his wife and the role of yoga in providing him with a way out.  Both Elizabeth Kadetsky's &quot;Coming Apart in Pune&quot; and Lois Nesbitt's &quot;An Insomniac Awakens&quot; relate tales of lives unraveling in the midst of a yoga practice (the former became part of the book First There is a Mountain, a memoir of Kadetsky's studies with BKS Iyengar in India).  And in &quot;The Art of Breathing,&quot; the suicide of Reetika Vazirani's father plays a central role in her own yoga practice.<br />Although not all of these stories spoke to me personally, each contains an element of the personal, providing a window of insight into just a few of the infinite ways in which yoga is lived by those who practice it.  Anyone with a regular yoga practice is bound to find at least one connection here, but this book is likely to be of little interest to non-yogis.	2004-05-31
US	52571463	R1RBLIRGE477EH	0767916026	474119391	The Ex Files: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Entertaining relationship fare	This is an entertaining novel in the genre of relationships gone wrong...and right.  The book centers around the marriage of Faye and Mark, two very different people who may or may not be a good match.  Two major complications are thrown into the mix:  1) in the opening pages of the novel, Faye has one last fling with a seemingly random guy she meets in a bar, only to have this event catch up with her later, and 2) Faye and Mark have each decided to invite a few of their exes to the wedding.  Regarding the latter, the story of each ex is told through flashbacks, providing the reader with an insider's perspective on Faye and Mark's past lives.  Also, the story is told from various viewpoints, so the reader sees things not only through Faye and Mark's eyes but also through glimpses of other characters such as Mark's brother Tony and Faye's mother Alice.<br />Despite the sometimes unrealistic dialogue and somewhat predictable plot, I found this book to be fun and enjoyable.  By about halfway through the story, I had a pretty good idea of who was going to end up with whom, but it was a pleasure to discover the exact paths leading to the book's conclusion.  Although this novel goes beyond &quot;chick lit&quot; given the central roles of several male characters, it is probably mostly likely to be enjoyed by women--a perfect light summer read!	2004-05-28
US	52571463	R3PZN00KH7LUK0	0060563389	726791070	The Last Odd Day: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Letting go of the past	This short novel focuses on Jean Witherspoon, an older woman who has lived alone ever since her husband, O.T., entered a nursing home two years before.  At the start of the book, Jean discovers that an unknown woman, Lily, has been visiting O.T. without Jean's knowledge.  The mystery of Lily and her connection to O.T.'s past causes Jean to begin reflecting on her own history, from the death of her younger sister, Emma, when she was seven years old to the loss of her own baby, who she called by that same name.  Jean and Lily form an unlikely friendship, and each woman shares their story.  For Jean, the ability to open up to Lily is transforming, as she is finally able to release long-buried emotions.  For the reader, however, the effect is much less dramatic, as Jean's character remains an enigma whose present life does not clearly follow from her past experiences.  Some sections of the book were engaging, but ultimately, I felt the story had little substance; although I would probably not recommend this book, perhaps it would appeal to someone who could relate more to Jean's circumstances than I could.	2004-05-25
US	52571463	R3IEV5BZIQE2C5	0802136680	119116934	This Boy's Life: A Memoir	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Interesting perspective on early dysfunctional families	In this memoir, author Tobias Wolff tells his story of growing up in the 1950s.  He begins at age 10, five years after the breakup of his parents' marriage, when he and his mother are heading West to escape from one of her boyfriends and to start a new life.  From this point on, the book details their struggles, which revolve around two main (and clearly related) themes:  their financial difficulties and the conflicts which arise with the various men who appear in their lives.<br />The majority of the book centers around a period when Tobias (or Jack, as he was known then) and his mother live with Dwight, a man his mother married in an attempt to keep Jack out of trouble.  To some extent, Wolff attempts to portray Dwight as all-bad, but like all people, Dwight is simply flawed.  His positive efforts to help Jack are often wiped out by his subsequent negative behavior--e.g., he helps Jack get a paper route but then spends Jack's money without his knowledge, he encourages Jack to become a Boy Scout but won't complete the paperwork to allow him to become an Eagle Scout, etc.  Jack's family life was dysfunctional well before the term ever existed.<br />I read this book after seeing a reference to it in another memoir, Alice Sebold's Lucky.  Like Sebold, Wolff tells his own story with a largely dispassionate voice and very simple language, both of which dilute the impact of his words somewhat.  His emotions more clearly shine through when he mentions what his past brought to his current life, but unfortunately, he does not do this very often.  Furthermore, Wolff gives the reader only a small glimpse of what the future holds in store for Jack, which I found to be frustrating.  Overall, this was a compelling memoir, but it left me wanting more than what Wolff offered.	2004-05-24
US	52571463	R1PM9T9YAA0V8G	0679463135	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Elinor Lipman at her wittiest best	I've read several of Lipman's other novels (The Inn at Lake Devine, The Dearly Departed), but this was by far the best.  The main character is Alice Thrift, M.D., medical resident and social misfit.  In the first page of the book, Alice gives away the ending by reporting that her marriage didn't last and that her husband was a liar.  Although these facts are disclosed up front, all is not revealed, as Alice's full story slowly unfolds over the course of the book.  What really makes this novel shine is the truly clever and positively comical dialogue between Alice and the various people who show up in her life:  her mother, her roommate Leo, Leo's family, Leo's girlfriend Meredith, her new-found friend Sylvie, and of course, her acquaintance, boyfriend, fiance, and eventual husband, Ray.  Although I knew what would happen with Alice and Ray in the end, I thoroughly enjoyed journeying with them from the very beginning to that point.	2004-05-17
US	52571463	R2MBU4MWBOZ9NT	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A reminder that we all have a reason to feel Lucky	Lucky is author Alice Sebold's autobiographical account of the violent, brutal rape she experienced at the end of her freshman year at Syracuse University.  The first ten pages describe what Sebold recalls of the rape, which very effectively allows the reader to get a sense of young Alice's experience.  What follows is a detailed account of what happened next, from Alice's initial reporting of the rape and medical care to the reactions of her family and friends to the eventual trial of her rapist.  Sebold tells her own story in the same detached, unemotional narration which she utilized in her novel, The Lovely Bones, yet as with that book, the emotions clearly shine through her simple prose.  At one point, Sebold shared the following observation:  &quot;I was learning that no one--females included--knew what to do with a rape victim.&quot;  As the book continues, it is obvious that this statement applies even to Alice herself, as she struggles to figure out what to do.  Although she calls herself a &quot;successful rape victim,&quot; Sebold is unable to escape the traumatic effects common to so many survivors of this crime.<br />As a psychologist, I believe that some rape survivors might find support and optimisim in Alice's story, whereas others may be unable to relate to her particular experiences.  As a reader, I wanted to know more about how Alice ended up; to me, Sebold's 10-page &quot;Aftermath&quot; section seemed to be a rushed, inadequate conclusion to Alice's compelling story.  However, I still found this book to be a worthwhile read, especially given that I agree with Sebold's basic premise that one can experience horrible events yet still be blessed--I feel Lucky too.	2004-05-10
US	52571463	R38Z0Y2IA1658P	0689825684	772054591	Bob	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Absolutely adorable Christmas poems!	I bought this book as a joke stocking stuffer for my husband, Bob, but I was pleasantly surprised to find that I really enjoyed the book myself.  Boynton has a knack for putting together wonderfully witty rhymes; although some of the jokes are over the heads of young children, even toddlers will be able to appreciate the book's adorable animal graphics.  Great book for a parent reading to a child of any age.	2004-05-06
US	52571463	R2RQQQQZSF7W1S	0761126368	922942583	Philadelphia Chickens: A Too-Illogical Zoological Musical Revue	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Sandra Boyton and music:  a winning combination!	This wonderful book/CD set combines the marvelous graphics and storytelling of Sandra Boyton with fun songs by performers as diverse as the Bacon Brothers and Meryl Streep.  Boyton's witty style has no rival, and the wonderfully upbeat music makes this set something that the youngest of children and the oldest of parents can truly enjoy together.  The book is especially amusing for those (like myself) from the Philadelphia area, as the title song contains references to things like Philly's infamous Schuylkill Expressway.  Great fun!	2004-05-06
US	52571463	R106ICZQ8GUX48	0679456791	713847288	Carry Me Across the Water	Books	4	8	10	N	N	An intriguing tale of regret and redemption	August Kleinman is a a man in his 70s who has fully experienced life, from his escape out of Germany as a child to his service in WWII to his lucrative career as a business entrepreneur.  Now, his beloved wife has passed away, and Augie struggles with maintaining a relationship with his son and new grandson while also trying to come to terms with his guilt about past mistakes.  Author Canin skillfully weaves stories of the past--Augie's experiences as a soldier in Japan, the progression of his marriage--with those of the present--namely, Augie's interactions with his remaining family and a return trip to Japan.  Although the frequent changes in setting could have been disorienting, Canin keeps the reader grounded with use of simple yet enchanting language.  Slowly but surely, the story of Augie's life enfolds, coming to a satisfying conclusion while still leaving the reader with questions about Augie's exact fate.  Sweet without being overly sentimental, this is a short novel with a wide appeal.	2004-05-06
US	52571463	R1ALN69WA0VQ42	0679642870	611234574	The Story of My Life: The Restored Edition (A Bantam classic)	Books	4	66	66	N	N	A wonderful restoration of a remarkable story	This is a beautiful 100th year anniversary edition of Helen Keller's The Story of My Life, originally published in 1903.  In his introduction, editor James Berger stresses the importance of offering Helen Keller's text in its original form, but he has greatly enhanced the original story by including additional background information, a section of Keller's own letters from the age of eight, and finally, commentaries on Keller's personality, education, speech, and style written by Annie Sullivan and others.<br />Although Helen Keller's story is familiar to all, to read it described in her own words is even more compelling.  Using wonderful, descriptive prose, Keller does a masterful job of depicting her transformation into a sentient being after the arrival of her teacher, Annie Sullivan.  Of particular note is Keller's frequent use of sight-oriented language (e.g., &quot;very soon the green, pointed buds showed signs of opening&quot;) despite her disabilities.  Although Keller tells of several dark periods in her life--including the &quot;Frost King&quot; incident and her struggles at college--what shines through most clearly is her incredible optimism and unfailingly cheerful disposition.<br />As amazing as it is to read Keller's story in her own words, it is her letters which leave the reader feeling truly astonished.  Just three and a half months after Sullivan first arrived to teach Helen, Keller was able to write simple declaratory statements such as &quot;helen write anna george will give helen apple.&quot;  The progression of Keller's language is truly extraordinary; just five months later, she is writing nearly as well as--or perhaps better than--other children her age:  &quot;I am glad to write you a letter. Father will send you a picture.&quot;  Soon it is nearly impossible to believe that this young woman spent her first eight years without thought or speech.  Included within Keller's letters are some of the replies she received from her many famous friends, such as the poet John Whittier.<br />Following Keller's letters are supplementary accounts from various sources, most notably the letters of Annie Sullivan.  My one complaint about the book is that I wish these letters had been printed side-by-side with Keller's; it would have been truly captivating to read the accounts of pupil and teacher in tandem.  Still, Sullivan's accounts are appealing in their own right, and her life's dedication to her student was truly remarkable.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone wanting to get the clearest, most true account of one of the 20th century's most fascinating women, Helen Keller.s, such as the poet John Whittier.<br />Following Keller's letters are supplementary accounts from various sources, most notably the letters of Annie Sullivan.  My one complaint about the book is that I wish these letters had been printed side-by-side with Keller's; it would have been truly captivating to read the accounts of pupil and teacher in tandem.  Still, Sullivan's accounts are appealing in their own right, and her life's dedication to her student was truly remarkable.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone wanting to get the clearest, most true account of one of the 20th century's most fascinating women, Helen Keller.	2004-05-03
US	52571463	ROOOPL4DNPTQS	0743255224	885806162	Name All the Animals: A Memoir	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A compelling account of a family's loss	First time author Allison Smith has written an engrossing memoir that reads like a coming-of-age novel, as she describes childhood pastimes, family vacations, struggles in school, her first kiss, etc.  However, superimposed over all of these activities and events is the shadow of her older brother's sudden death when she was 15 years old.  Smith shares her own response to the loss of Roy, a brother with whom she was so close that they shared a common nickname, Alroy.  At the same time, Smith skillfully weaves in stories of her family's past, an effective literary tool which serves to illuminate the different reactions of each family member to Roy's death.  The narrative does not always relate to Roy directly, but although Smith devotes much of her book to her experiences in school, friendship, and love, the specter of Roy is always present.<br /><br />Smith has done a masterful job of characterizing the many different emotions which compromise grief; her book is not just about sadness but about anger, confusion, numbness, guilt, embarrassment, and more.  The teenaged Allison is a poignant figure who can't help but to ignite compassion, not only in those around her but also in the present-day reader.  My one disappointment about this book is that the reader is told little about Allison's future.  Although Smith includes an epilogue which takes place 13 years after Roy's death, these final pages add little to Allison's story, leaving the reader to wonder about her health, her relationships, and her life in general.  Overall, however, this book is a remarkable acheivement for Smith, who clearly has the makings of a novelist.	2004-04-27
US	52571463	R2KCWQV3ACJAY5	0060520515	836724652	The Other Side of the Story: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	This story is told from THREE sides	In this new novel, Marian Keyes has made a slight divergence from her usual style:  instead of one female main character, there are three, and at first, their stories seem completely unrelated.  The book opens with Gemma, a young event planner whose life turns upside down when her father suddenly announces that he is having an affair.  Gemma struggles to cope with her hysterical mother while still nursing her own broken heart:  two years before, her boyfriend, Anton, began dating her best friend, Lily.  Just as the reader has become thoroughly engrossed in Gemma's life (about 75 pages into the book), the story abruptly shifts to JoJo, an up-and-coming literary agent.  JoJo is a beautiful, strong woman who leads an ideal life, with one exception:  she is having an affair with her married boss.  JoJo's tale leads us finally to one of her clients, Lily, Gemma's former friend.  Although Lily is still happily partnered with Anton and is the proud mother of young Ema, she is also consumed by guilt about Gemma.  When a little novel she wrote becomes a best seller, Lily lives life as if in a dream, certain that the happiness she has found will not last.<br />Initially, I didn't enjoy reading the book from three different perspectives:  I was dismayed to leave Gemma behind in the midst of her crisis, especially given that it was unclear how her path and JoJo's would intersect.  In addition, I found it a little odd that both Gemma's and JoJo's stories were narrated in the third person while Lily spoke in the first person, and I'm still uncertain about the significance of this literary device.  As the book continued, however, I began to enjoy the shifts amongst the three women, especially when the connections between them became more apparent.  Although some parts of the story dragged a bit, towards the end of the novel, Keyes picks up the pace, and the more frequent changes in viewpoint make for an exciting finish.  If you enjoy reading British/Irish fiction or Marian Keyes in particular, you will definitely like this book.n particular, you will definitely like this book.	2004-04-16
US	52571463	RYMSL2024C577	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The next installment of the Tudor saga	In her previous work, Gregory told the story of Anne Boleyn, second wife of Henry Tudor, as seen through the eyes of her lesser-known sister, Mary.  In this follow-up work, Gregory uses a completely fictional character, Hannah Green, to follow the reign of Queen Mary, the once-beloved daughter of Henry who was declared illegitimate and exiled before finally coming into her inheritance. Hannah, a young girl of 14, is the queen's &quot;fool&quot; because she has the gift of second sight.  She came into royal service through Robert Dudley, a handsome, charismatic lord who promised her safety (Hannah and her Jewish father had fled from Spain after her mother was burned at the stake during the Spanish Inquisition).  Hannah loves the Queen, but she is running from both her persecuted past as well as her uncertain future:  she is betrothed to a young Jewish man, Daniel Carpenter, who she is presumed to marry at age 16.  Outside of her own personal circumstances, Hannah becomes wrapped up in the antics of Princess Elizabeth, the radiant half-sister of Mary who also makes Hannah her confidante.  Hannah's simple life as the queen's fool becomes dangerously complex, and her own future becomes intertwined with that of England.<br />Gregory has a clear talent for historical fiction, as she skillfully weaves interactions between actual and fictional characters.  The reader is treated to many character transformations:  Hannah, from a young girl in boy's clothing to a young woman; Mary, from a gentle princess to an unforgiving and broken Queen; Elizabeth, from a scared young woman to a future heir to the throne; and Dudley, from a young courier to one of the most powerful men in England.  Although Hannah's story is not quite as dramatic as Mary Boleyn's and the ending of this book is not quite so climactic as in The Other Boleyn Girl, Gregory has written another well-researched and enjoyable novel about the Tudor era.	2004-04-16
US	52571463	RSVT2SGM822EQ	078943301X	886122710	Yoga Mind And Body (DK Living)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Excellent resource for learning form and alignment	I've been studying yoga for several years now, but I still found this book to be an excellent resource for providing me with information on form and alignment.  The instructions for each asana (pose) are very clear, and the myraid of illustrations presented are extremely helpful.  I particularly liked the illustrations of common mistakes, as these display what NOT to do when performing the poses.  This is definitely a book for all levles of yoga students, and beginners would certainly find it useful in building a solid foundation to their yoga practice.  However, I would caution beginners and others that some of the yogic customs presented in the final part of the book should probably not be attempted without the supervision of a yoga instructor.  But on the whole, this is a well-done guide which provides effective and concise information about the practice of yoga.	2004-04-13
US	52571463	R7RJ4JIMJLNZW	1877988294	482736665	The Beauty Bible: The Ultimate Guide to Smart Beauty	Books	3	84	89	N	N	Great information, but buy the author's other book first	The Beauty Bible is meant as a companion volume to Paula Bogoun's Don't Go to the Cosmetics Counter Without Me, and it does contain some unique information not found in Don't Go..., including advice on overall body care and tips on makeup application.  However, the most helpful sections of this book--eg, instructions for blemish/acne treatment, inside information about product ingredients, etc.--are covered more succinctly and clearly in Begoun's other work, which also includes a ton of useful information on specific skin care and makeup products.  I recommend that you first purchase Don't Go to the Cosmetics Counter Without Me, and if you then require additional information, consider buying this book.	2004-04-12
US	52571463	R1452STMPJPKOE	0060520507	253092517	Sushi for Beginners: A Novel	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Starts slow but gets better	This is the sixth Keyes novel I have read.  Generally, I find that she provides average-to-good reads, although for the type of fiction she writes, I find her books to be a bit too long.  This novel was no exception, as the first half of the book really dragged; in particular, it was hard to get into the story because one of the main characters, Lisa, was not at all likeable.  However, the book definitely picked up in the second half, when the characters became more three-dimensional and better developed.  The story centers around Lisa, a hotshot London magazine editor who has been banished to Ireland to start up a new magazine; Ashling, the plain Jane who gets a job as an assistant editor of the magazine; and Clodagh, Ashling's gorgeous best friend who feels smothered by her roles as wife and mother.  All three women are trying to sort our their work and love lives while also dealing with demons from their respective pasts.  The cast of supporting characters adds interest, including Jack, Lisa and Ashling's boss; Joy and Ted, Ashling's supportive friends; Boo, a homeless man who Ashling befriends; and Oliver, Lisa's estranged husband.  My actual rating of this book is three and a half stars:  if you can hang in there through the somewhat boring first half, you'll be rewarded with  several unexpected twists in the second half.  A worthwhile read for fans of Keyes, but perhaps not for others.	2004-04-07
US	52571463	R1Y30LAPEZTENV	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A interesting memoir about reading	Being an avid reader myself, I was looking forward to reading Sara Nelson's memoir of her year-long reading project.  Nelson decided that she would read one book a week for the entire year, so each of this book's 52 chapters consists of approximately 4-6 pages of Nelson's reflections on that week's reading.  Of course, many more than 52 books are mentioned, as Nelson's thoughts on one book almost always lead her to venture her opinion on others.  Booklovers will easily relate to most of the topics Nelson discusses, including selecting books to read, sharing books with friends, reading to children, re-reading old favorites, avoiding over-hyped books, discovering new authors, and much more.  Keep in mind that this is a memoir, not a book review:  Nelson frequently delves into her personal life, and she sometimes moved a bit too far from her literary pursuits for my liking.  Still, this is an interesting read that is likely to be enjoyed mainly by fellow bibliophilies.	2004-03-31
US	52571463	R3TA284NVYVSIU	0613226100	580214343	What We Keep (Ballantine Reader's Circle (Prebound))	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not one of Berg's best	I've read many of Elizabeth Berg's books and have found that while some are wonderful, others are merely okay.  WHAT WE KEEP unfortunately fell into the latter category.  The main character is Ginny, a middle-aged woman who is flying out to California to meet the mother she has not seen in 35 years.  Although Ginny had written off the relationship with her mother long ago, she made this trip at the request of her older sister, Sharla, who may or may not have cancer.  As Ginny flies across the country, she recollects her childhood, reviweing the events that led to her and her sister's estrangement from their mother.<br />The majority of this novel is told in flashbacks.  Although Ginny and Sharla's anger towards their mother was understandable, the resulting 35-year estrangement seemed to be an extreme reaction.  Furthermore, once the novel returns to the present day, the reunion between Ginny and Sharla with their mother happens too quickly and too easily.  Although the story was engaging at times, ultimately, I did not find it to be believable, and I was disappointed in the end.	2004-03-16
US	52571463	R3483OFBBRUAHO	0743411366	334367554	Say When: A Novel (Berg, Elizabeth)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Marital struggles seen through the husband's eyes	Elizabeth Berg is a master at telling stories of family drama, and Say When is one of her best books.  At the start of the novel, Griffin suspects that something is going on with his wife, Ellen, a sometimes odd woman with a tendency towards sadness.  However, he is stunned when she informs him that she his having an affair and wants a divorce.  When Griffin refuses to leave the house, they suddenly find themselves negotiating the care of their 8-year old daughter, Zoe, while living as merely roommates.<br />The fact that the story is told from the husband's point of view is refreshing, as is the fact that there are no bad guys here--both Griffin and Ellen are nice people who have made some mistakes.  Furthermore, both are good parents to Zoe, and their interactions with their child are completely realistic as well as touching.  In the midst of his domestic turmoil, Griffin gets a job as a mall Santa during the Christmas season, and his conversations with his many young visitors also ring true.  The plot is simple yet never predictable, easily engaging the reader in a comfortable way.  Overall, this is a delightful little book about marriage, family life, and second chances.	2004-03-09
US	52571463	R2V8PCBWBJH0JS	0374189595	360675407	The Little Women	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A thoroughly modern take on a classic work of fiction	The title of this novel caught my eye--how could I pass up a book called &quot;The Little Women&quot; when I was named after one of the sisters in Louisa May Alcott's classic?  This modern story is a tale of three sisters, not four:  Meg, Joanna, and Amy Green (given that Beth dies in the original tale, the Green parents wisely decided to skip over her).  It is a book within a book, as the entire novel purports to be an &quot;autobiographical novel&quot; written by the middle sister, Joanna (of course!).  Nothing sums up this novel better than this captivating first line:  &quot;This is the story of the year we left our mother and our father in order to live on our own, away from their bad behavior and their infuriating pretense that they were the most splendid parents in all the world.&quot;<br />To expand a bit, the three Green sisters are living a perfect life with their perfect parents in modern-day New York City--until one day, they accidentally encounter evidence of their mother's affair.  When they confront their parents, they are told that the affair is over and done with, a &quot;private matter,&quot; and they are expected to carry on as if nothing ever happened.  Unable to do this, the girls make a life-changing decision:  17 year old Joanna and 15 year old Amy would move to New Haven, CT, to live with Meg, 20 years old and about to enter her junior year at Yale.  What follows is the story of their efforts to survive as a new family to replace the one they lost.  Fans of the original Little Women will be happy to discover that the similarities to the March sisters are clearly not in name only; in addition to Joanna being a writer and Amy being an artist, other parallels to the March family frequently appear, sometimes subtle, sometimes major.<br />A particularly unique aspect of this novel is that Joanna, author of the book within the book, has struck a deal with her sisters allowing them to include &quot;reader's notes&quot; as part of the manuscript.  These notes--comments from Meg and Amy on the text--are interspersed throughout the book and are accompanied by Joanna's replies, or &quot;author's notes.&quot;  While sometimes distracting, they add an interesting, real element, making the book within the book device more plausible.  This highly original work is both homage to a literary classic and an important piece of work in its on right.ese notes--comments from Meg and Amy on the text--are interspersed throughout the book and are accompanied by Joanna's replies, or &quot;author's notes.&quot;  While sometimes distracting, they add an interesting, real element, making the book within the book device more plausible.  This highly original work is both homage to a literary classic and an important piece of work in its on right.	2004-03-01
US	52571463	R1B0UY2LTS7IEJ	0375421351	264110436	The Truth About Celia: A novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Interesting premise, poignant story	The Truth About Celia is a book within the book:  in addition to being a real work of fiction, it is also a fictional book by the story's main character, author Christopher Brooks, and it comes complete with its own dedication, table of contents, and notes about the author (the fictional one, that is).  If that doesn't make sense, it at least gives you a flavor for what the book is like, as it frequently verges into surreal territory.  Christopher is a father whose 7-year old daughter, Celia, disappears one day while playing in the backyard.  Unable to start a new novel as he had planned, Christopher instead writes about Celia--not only from his own perspective, but also from his wife's, from the people of the town, and even from Celia herself (this section is reminiscent of The Lovely Bones).  The story shifts both in time--from immediately after Celia's disappearance to 7 and 14 years beyond--and in content--a short story about &quot;The Green Children&quot; is woven into the plot.  The effect of this is interesting but disorienting, leaving the reader never being quite sure of exactly when or where they are.  The tendency of the author (the real one) to use long, rambling paragraphs that go on for pages only adds to the sense of confusion.  However, this short novel is certainly a worthwhile read, both for its uniqueness and its raw emotional honesty.	2004-02-25
US	52571463	R1IQDEJG8F9364	157863301X	876647539	The Little Book of Yoga Breathing: Pranayama Made Easy. . .	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Perfect little introduction to yogic breathing!	This is a great little book for those wanting to learn more about the different types of breathing associated with yoga.  The author provides simple, straightforward instruction on various yogic breathing styles, including Ujjayi and Alternate Nostril Breathing.  He also talks about how to incorporate breathing into both your yoga practice and your daily life.  An excellent reference book, especially for those who feel intimidated by the classic pranayama (breathing) texts.	2004-02-24
US	52571463	R8ETDKSXG5W1K	1930485042	887426187	30 Essential Yoga Poses: For Beginning Students and Their Teachers	Books	5	94	97	N	N	Wonderful yoga book with a wide appeal	This is a wonderful yoga book for those just beginning to practice yoga, intermediate practitioners who would like to enhance their practice, or those looking to make the transition from yoga student to yoga teacher.  For each of the poses described, author Judith Lasater suggests variations, offers tips on alignment, and provides information for how teachers can work with their students on the pose.  As an advanced beginner, I even found reading the sections intended for teachers to be useful, as it gave me ideas about how to make changes in my own practice.  At the end of the book, the author describes various ways to incorporate the postures into a daily practice, from a short practice to practices for each day of the week to practices to meet specific needs (eg, for energy, for relaxation).  Judith is an excellent instructor, and I only wish that she had illustrated the poses herself (I found the model used throughout the book to be a bit severe-looking).  Still, this book is a must-have for starting or adding to a yoga library.	2004-02-24
US	52571463	R6HH8PXVZU5TR	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderfully funny and poignant read	In the second chapter of this book (actually labelled as \\"3\\" because this is the second prime number), we are introduced to Christopher, the narrator, who is writing a mystery novel as a class project.  Christopher is an extremely intelligent 15-year old who just happens to be autistic.  He begins his tale by relating his discovery of a neighbor's dog, which had been murdered with a garden fork.  Because he likes both dogs and mysteries, Christopher sets off to find the killer, but what starts as a story about a dog becomes a story about Christopher's life.  Not only do we learn about Christopher's many quirks, but also we learn the explanations for his seemingly irrational behavior, making it seem almost logical.  The book is surprising funny, as Christopher, with his limited emotional range, makes the perfect straight man.  Overall a delightful, different, and quick little read.	2004-02-23
US	52571463	R2FWQ800JDQH7A	1570613818	202119975	Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Good for expanding your reading horizons	As an avid reader of fiction, I find that I frequently exhaust all the books by a particular author and am left wondering what to read next.  Book Lust definitely helped me to identify some new authors and books to try.  It is broken down into 175 different categories; rather than be based on mood as the title suggests, the categories are mostly based on very specific genres--eg, African American Fiction (further divided into male and female), Canadian Fiction, Memoirs, etc. (some categories are given particularly amusing names, such as Elvis on My Mind, Gear Up for Gardening, and Take Me Out to the Ballgame).  Particular authors are also highlighted various &quot;Too Good to Miss&quot; entries.  You will certainly find plenty of reading suggestions, but don't expect much detail about each individual book--at times the books are simply listed.  Also, you may be disappointed to find that some of your own favorites do not make the list (no Maeve Bincy under Irish Fiction?).  Overall, however, this is a worthwhile read for booklovers like myself.	2004-02-23
US	52571463	R2W7UQMMTD6FR8	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable historical fiction from the Tudor era	Most people have heard of Anne Boleyn, the second wife of King Henry VIII who was infamously beheaded when she failed to bear him a son (and whose daughter, Elizabeth, went on to become a great monarch).  But few are aware that prior to Anne's rise, her sister, Mary, was the King's mistress and allegedly bore him two children.  This novel seamlessly blends fact and fiction to tell the story of the Boleyn family, whose ambitions and aspirations caused them to put two daughters in harm's way.  However, the story centers around the rivalry between the two sisters as well as their relationship with their brother, George Boleyn, who was executed just prior to his sister.  A captivating tale about this fascinating period of history.	2004-02-18
US	52571463	R8VS2QQ80VWV9	0385721544	838404808	Meditations from the Mat: Daily Reflections on the Path of Yoga	Books	3	69	81	N	N	Teaches that yoga is much more than just a physical practice	I am a fairly casual yoga practitioner; I've just begun to try to incorporate asana (posture) practice on an almost daily basis.  This book goes beyond the practice of yoga postures and takes you deep into the philosophy behind yoga.  It contains a series of essays and reflections, one for each day of the year; each entry begins with a quote derived from yoga texts, popular culture, or yoga students and teachers.  The book is broken down into eight sections which correspond to the eight branches of yoga--the postures, or asanas, are just one of these branches, and the essays focus on incorporating yoga into your daily life both on AND off the mat.  Although I found most of the essays to be interesting and enjoyed learning more about yogic traditions, I felt that the book had limited applicability to my own practice, which is more limited to asana.  However, those who are interested in integrating yoga/yogic philosophy more pervasively into their lives are likely to enjoy this book.	2004-02-17
US	52571463	R2095BL24YAX9S	1575871726	543952479	A Morning Cup of Yoga: One 15-minute Routine for a Lifetime of Health & Wellness (Book and CD)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Great way to add a bit of exercise into your daily routine	This book is perfect for helping you add a little bit of exercise into your daily routine, even if you've never done yoga or don't exercise at all.  The author's goal was to develop a practice that requires no special clothing, no props, and no getting down on the floor while still providing full-body benefits.  She has clearly succeeded in her creation of this short (15 minute) routine which can be done anytime, anywhere (I've done it in my office!).<br />The practice consists of simple stretches to open and awaken the entire body.  The author begins with instruction on three different types of breathing, and for each exercise, she suggests the most appropriate breath to use.  The exercises include notes and &quot;extra attention&quot; boxes which offer ideas for expanding on the movements.  In addition, some exercises are rated as &quot;optional,&quot; and alternates are given to provide either more or less of a stretch.  The entire program can be individualized based on your own needs, but the book comes with a CD in which the author leads you through the basic program in only 15 minutes (be sure you're familiar with the exercises first, as she moves quickly!).  At the end of the routine, the author includes suggestions for incorporating the practice of meditation.  She also discusses the mind-body connection vital to yoga as well as simplifies ancient yogic concepts in &quot;A Sip of Sutras.&quot;  Finally, the book ends with instructions on one additional yoga pose (&quot;Feet up the Wall&quot;) designed to achieve deep relaxation.<br />This book is made even more user-friendly by the handy spiral binding and the helpful illustrations, including the entire sequence depicted on a single page.  It would be a perfect gift for anyone wanting to take a little time each day to improve their overall health and well-being; a wonderful treat for yourself or someone else.	2004-02-17
US	52571463	R1BK60HD7JDLR4	0345465415	919246679	Cool Yoga Tricks	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Modify, modify, modify!	This book is all about learning to modify yoga poses to make them work for YOU.  It begins by helping you to become more aware of your body and how to control the way it moves.  For example, many yoga poses include the instruction &quot;roll your thighs outward&quot;--how do you do that?  This book doesn't just TELL you how, it SHOWS you how!  Using a varitey of props such as blankets, straps, bolsters, chairs, and even helpful friends, you will learn to find comfort in some of the most common yoga poses, such as downward facing dog, standing forward bend, seated forward bend, and headstand.  Yoga teachers and students of various shapes and sizes illustrate the many poses included in this book.  This book is an excellent tool for anyone looking to further their yoga practice by attaining postures best suited to their ability.	2004-02-17
US	52571463	RTTLB48OGFD2G	0312104987	524376389	A Rose for Every Month	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An engrossing generational saga	This book begins with the character of Jane Rushton, a 30-something English woman in the 1920s who flees to Italy to escape her fiance's infidelity.  There she meets Ottavio Castagnolo, &quot;padrone&quot; of a vast wine and olive estate which has been slowly falling into ruin.  Jane agrees to become governess for Ottavio's two young children, and thus the lives of the Rushtons and the Castagnolos become forever intertwined.  Specifically, Jane's brother, Charlie, her cousin, Alexandra, and her nephew David, all become bewitched by Italy through mingling with Ottavio's sister, Anna, his brother, Fausto, and his son and daughter, Marco and Francesca.  The story spans approximately 40 years and is set against the backdrop of WWII.  My only complaint about this novel is that the ending felt rather rushed; suddenly, we have the characters informing us of the action rather than being allowed to see it unfold for ourselves.  Overall, however, this was an enjoyable read, especially given the unique perspective into a terrible time of world history.	2004-02-09
US	52571463	RZIMHB2WYHGO3	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The romantic adventures of an ensemble cast	This book differs from other British &quot;chick lit&quot; type novels in that rather than the usual boy meets girl, it tells the story of girl meets boy meets other boy meets girl who lives with boy...you get the idea!  The story does center around three main characters--flatmates Smith and Ralph, and Jem, their new roommate--but they share the spotlight with others in their apartment building, including Cheri, the girl of Smith's dreams; Karl, who Cheri entices into an affair; and Siobban, Karl's live-in girlfriend.  Each character takes turns narrating the story, but the main focus is on Ralph's growing feelings for Jem, who began dating Smith almost immediately after moving in.  What could have been a typical frustrating tale about repeated communications and misfires in the name of love turns to something more fresh and unique in Jewell's capable hands.  Her next novel, Thirty Nothing, is a bit of a predictable disappointment, but by her third book, One Hit Wonder, Jewell really hits her stride.  Ralph's Party is a debut novel worth reading in order to become familiar with this promising young author.	2004-02-09
US	52571463	R336I4A8MQ7KQ8	042513699X	153525079	Turtle Moon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A character-driven story with an intriguing mystery	Hoffman is known for her use of magical realism, or a tendency to weave supernatural elements into the everyday world.  She does this through use of her rich, lyrical prose and fantastical, almost mythical characters.  While the latter is less evident here than in some of her other works (although an angel appears several times as a minor character), this book does showcase Hoffman's detailed and descriptive writing style.  Usually, I don't enjoy books with as little dialogue as this one, but to compensate, Turtle Moon offers complex characters whose interwoven histories draw one into the story, an intriguing mystery involving the murder of a young single mother.  Although I have disliked some of Hoffman's other novels, I enjoyed this one enough to continue sampling her work.	2004-02-02
US	52571463	R32IEABNQUGWLJ	1572241241	18806065	When Perfect Isn't Good Enough: Strategies for Coping with Perfectionism	Books	5	126	127	N	N	Excellent for understanding and changing perfectionism	As a psychologist working in a college counseling center, I see many students who beat themselves up with perfectionistic-type thoughts such as &quot;If I don't get an A in this class, I'm a failure&quot; or &quot;I can't let my friends know I'm upset because they'll think there's something wrong with me.&quot;  These destructive thoughts can have a devastating impact by leading to anxiety, depression, and a host of other difficulties, and this is the #1 book I recommend to students who are struggling with these issues.<br />The first section of the book, Understanding Perfectionism, helps the reader to better understand the impact of perfectionism on their life, particularly in the areas of thoughts and behavior.  The second section, Overcoming Perfectionism, begins with a self-assessment designed to help the reader identify how their own perfectionistic tendencies manifest.  Following the assessment, specific exercises assist the reader in identifying goals and developing a plan for change.  Finally, this section offers a wide variety of strategies for changing perfectionist thoughts and behaviors.<br />The final section of the book focuses on specific problems related to perfectionism, with chapters on depression, anger, social anxiety, worry, obsessive-compulsive behavior, and body image.  These chapters contain additional exercises, further information on coping strategies, and an overview of available mental health treatment for each concern.<br />I particularly like the workbook-style format of this book, as it provides the reader with personalized assistance.  Reading this book is an excellent first step for anyone who is trying to understand and wanting to change their perfectionistic tendencies; it also can be used as an adjunct to therapy.	2004-01-28
US	52571463	R2E9ZI0LCJZ9Y4	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Funny modern romance	Nadine and Dig are best friends who are perfect for each other, but unfortunately, their romantic timing has never worked out.  As Dig turns 30, it looks like this finally might change, but then Delilah, Dig's high school girlfriend, suddenly reappears, and all of the problems she caused for Dig and Nadine in high school resurface.  What follows is the usual story of miscommunication and missed chances, but of course, there's also the usual happy ending.<br />Although the general plot is familiar, there are some surprises, particularly with respect to the character of Delilah.  In addition, author Jewell writes with both humor and warmth, which keeps the story interesting (her next book, One Hit Wonder, is even better).  Overall, a good light read if you enjoy reading about the mishaps of modern romance.	2004-01-27
US	52571463	R2QBPJ86KIRB6M	0743456696	426941551	Yoga: Natural Exercises for Life (Body Shop Books)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent practice guide for home practitioners	I received this book as part of a gift package from the Body Shop, and I wasn't expecting much.  I was very pleasantly surprised to find that this is an extremely well-thought out book appropriate for beginners to more advanced levels.  The book begins by reviewing some of the basic tenats of yoga, including the importance of breathing as well as the purpose of the healing chakras located throughout the body.  It then goes on to introduce the sun salutation series, a basic series of poses which forms the foundation of most practices.<br />Following this, the book is divided into approximately 20 chapters, with each chapter containing instructions for approximately 4-5 poses centered around a particular theme.  For example, the &quot;Renewal&quot; practice is a series of poses which can be done at your desk to restore your energy while you are at work, the &quot;Stability&quot; practice focuses on back exercises to strengthen your midsection--other themes include waking up in the morning, warming up prior to a workout, attaining calm, increasing concentration and mental focus, strengthening your muscles, and many more.<br />Each series takes approximately 10 minutes to complete, so they can be done in isolation or mixed and matched to form a custom practice.  All of the poses in the book are at a beginning level, but most have both modifications and more advanced versions.  Furthermore, the bottom of each section includes tips on breathing, meditation, and/or general wellness.  I have really enjoyed this book, expecially given that it has helped me to incorporate more yoga into my fitness routine.	2004-01-26
US	52571463	R3P8QUUCNKR1ES	1570628890	921651910	The Yoga of Breath: A Step-by-Step Guide to Pranayama	Books	3	29	34	N	N	Provides a detailed plan for the study of yoga and breath	I have been a home practitioner of yoga for some time now, but I struggle with the breathing, or pranayama, necessary to go deeper into the asanas (postures), and so I was hoping that ths book would provide detailed breathing instruction.  Although the author definitely does include step-by-step instruction for how to perform some of the most common types of yogic breath, this information does not come until the end of the book.  Instead, the first part of the book focuses on growing accustomed to breathing normally while performing a series of basic yoga poses modified with props (as per the Iyengar tradition).  The author offers a planned study guide which first incorporates the basic poses and then eventually works up to the breathing exercises.<br />This book doesn't really work for people like myself who originally came to yoga via asana practice alone but then eventually desired to incorporate pranayama into their practice.  However, for the beginning yoga practitioner looking simultaneously develop an asana and pranayama practice, this might be a useful reference manual.	2004-01-26
US	52571463	R1H5V5UA6L4MW4	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A solid Koontz read	As the title would suggest, Odd Thomas is a novel about a man of that same name.  Odd (which is his real name, not a nickname), is a 20 year old, short-order cook with a peculiar talent:  he sees dead people.  And, just like in the movie which made that line famous, the dead don't speak, yet they usually want Odd's help. It is not the dead who concern Odd, however, it is the bodachs:  evil spirits which hover around the site of future death.  When Odd sees a large group of bodachs hanging around a strange-looking man who comes into his grill one morning, he makes it his mission to find out exactly what this man is up to in hopes avoiding the tragedy foretold by the appearance of the bodachs.<br />This book is a bit different than much of Koontz's other work, namely because it is written in the first person (Odd actually begins by saying that he is writing his memoirs) and because it is a shorter, quicker read.  However, Koontz's usual, witty prose is evident, and this book is mostly consistent with his usual style.  I did have some minor problems with the plot--for example, some of the supernatural natural occurrences aren't fully explained, and the conclusion didn't seem to match the level of build-up.  Overall however, I enjoyed the book, and Koontz fans like myself are not likely to be disappointed.	2004-01-26
US	52571463	RLKJMQ15LJ41N	0385498977	784717527	Mermaids on the Moon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Quirky characters make for an interesting read	France, a 30-something divorced woman, gets a call from her father, North, saying that her mother, Grendy, has disappeared.  Although North seems unconcerned--Grendy has left a note, and North expects that she'll be back eventually--France decides that she needs to find her mother, and so she travels down to Florida to do so.  Gerdy had been performing a water show with a small group of other older &quot;mermaids&quot; who have revived their girlhood careers.  France is drawn to these women, certain that the answers to her mother's disappearance lie underwater.  During her search, France is faced with the care of Theo, the 6-year old son of her deceased sister who appears to have major behavioral problems.  In addition, she finds herself confronting the past, including her father's transgressions, her sister's untimely death, and her own mistakes, including an unhappy marriage.<br />This is an interesting story filled with quirky characters.  Some, like France's long-time boyfriend, Bruno, make only brief appearances, whereas others, such as the mermaids, are more fully developed.  At times, the relationships amongst the characters are a bit muddled--for example, France seems to be annoyed with Bruno most of the time, yet she frequently mentions how happy he makes her, which is not clearly reflected in the storyline.  Overall, however, this book is a quick read that's both unique and enjoyable.	2004-01-26
US	52571463	R3RAKKI0R4AONG	0931454980	608488856	Yoga: A Gem for Women	Books	3	64	74	N	N	Yoga taught the traditional Eastern way	This is a reference guide written by Geeta Iyengar, daughter of BKS Iyengar, probably the most famous living yogi.  The book is designed specifically for women who wish to develop their own self-study of yoga (Yoga Sadhana), and it covers not only asanas (postures) but also the other vital components of traditional yoga such as pranayama (breath) and meditation.<br />Geeta is clearly a master yoga practitioner who has created a comprehensive, thoughtful manual, but her book was not at all what I was looking for.  Although I have practiced yoga at home for over two years, I was overwhelmed by the level of detail in the book.  In addition, I found it difficult to follow, partly because the author uses only the original Sanskirt names for the poses and partly because the visual guides to the poses were all placed at the end of the book (rather than interpersed side-by-side to the instructional information included throughout).<br />This book would definitely not be appropriate for the casual, Westernized yoga practitioner, especially not someone who is using yoga primarily as a form of fitness.  However, for someone who wishes to extend their yoga practice beyond the poses as well as to connect with yoga's original Eastern roots, this book may be ideal.	2004-01-22
US	52571463	R2MGAALXMFVQ1I	0345452577	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A nice break from the Alex Delaware series	In this novel, author Kellerman has taken a break from his series of books about psychologist Alex Delaware to offer us a new main character, Jeremy Carrier.  Although Jeremy is also a psychologist, he is younger than Delaware and practices in a hospital (as opposed to Delaware's private practice).  Yes, he does become involved in a series of mysterious murders--including the murder of his own girlfriend--but unlike Delaware, Jeremy is working on his own rather than with the police.<br />Although this book definitely contains some similarities to the Delaware series, Kellerman has done a nice job of creating an interesting new cast of characters.  Furthermore, the use of a new protagonist has allowed him to break away from the staleness of the recent Delaware books and to return to some of the energy and intensity of his earlier works.  While not as good as Kellerman's best non-Delaware novel, The Butcher's Theater, The Conspiracy Club reminds the reader of Kellerman's continued potential for writing great works of suspense.	2004-01-20
US	52571463	RX9OHM6IMZ0X0	0671686151	840837500	Then She Found Me	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Quirky but endearing characters make for an appealing read	April, a lonely teacher with a quiet life, grew up happily in an adoptive family. Shortly after the deaths of her beloved adoptive parents, however, she is contacted by Bernice, a flashy talk show host who claims to be her \\"real\\" mother. April is not the type of daughter Bernice expected to find, and Bernice is not exactly the birth mother about whom April dreamed for years. Their reunion is frequently funny, sometimes stormy, but ultimately heartwarming; when set against the backdrop of April's budding romance, it makes for a novel which is both humorous and touching.  Lipman fans will not be disappointed, and those new to the author may very well go on to read some of her other works as I did.	2004-01-19
US	52571463	R39LKJQ9KAFOJA	0452284406	26324951	One-Hit Wonder	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best novels I have read in a long time	I'm an extremely avid reader, and I find that so many of the books I read are okay, with no obvious flaws, but certainly nothing to write home about either.  Often, the characters experience unrealistic dilemmas, are victims of unbelievable coincidences, and frustratingly repeat the same stupid patterns over and over again.  Happily, One Hit Wonder was a refreshing, delightful change.<br />Ana Wills, a gangly 25 year old living with her mother in the London countryside, has just been informed of the death of her much older half-sister, Bee Bearhorn.  When Ana was only four years old, Bee went off to London to live with her own father and to pursue stardom--which came to her briefly with a hit single in the mid-1980s.  At the time of her death, Bee had been estranged from Ana and her mother for over a decade, but as Bee's only surviving relatives, they are her only inheritants.  At her mother's insistence, Ana goes to London on what is supposed to be a day trip to pack up Bee's things.  Once there, however, she finds herself enraptured by Bee's friends and caught up in the mystery of Bee's life and death, the latter of which may or may not have been a suicide.<br />Jewell's true-to-life characters react in ways that seem real rather than contrived.  She keeps the reader interested with flashbacks into Bee's past, which makes for an engrossing, absorbing read with a satisfying conclusion.  Overall, this book was even better than Jewell's previous book, Thirty Nothing, and so I'm looking forward to reading her next one.	2004-01-18
US	52571463	R2SEABLZCJOPY8	0060090367	962133592	Watermelon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice introduction to this Irish writer and the Walsh sisters	After reading a short story by Marian Keyes, I decided to try reading one of her novels.  Watermelon is the story of Claire Walsh, an Irish woman in her early 30s who has just given birth to her first child.  When she wakes up after the delivery, the first thing she sees is her husband, James, who informs her that he is leaving her for their downstairs neighbor.  In a state of shock, Claire packs some things and leaves London with her yet unnamed baby girl to travel back home to her parents in Ireland.<br />What follows is the familiar tale of a woman struggling to get back on her feet; Claire predictably goes through the process of depression to redemption.  Despite the common nature of the storyline, Keyes has created engaging characters in Claire, her neurotic parents, and her two youngest sisters--Helen with her biting sarcasm, and Anna, the lovable airhead.  Even when the plot becomes somewhat contrived and unrealistic, Keyes injects humor and life into Claire's story; the reader can't help but to be interested in how things turn out.<br />Keyes has written two more novels about the five Walsh sisters:  Rachel's Holiday, which tells the story of middle child Rachel, and her more recent work, Angels, which focuses on second oldest Margaret.  Although these books weren't quite up to the quality of Watermelon, once you begin reading about the Walsh sisters, you may become as hooked as I did.	2004-01-15
US	52571463	R152SAP0QZPFXV	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Finally, a return to the quest for the Dark Tower	Long-time King fans like myself have eagerly awaited this sequel for many years, and for the most part, the master storyteller does not disappoint.  After focusing on Roland's past in the previous installment, Wizard and Glass, in Wolves of the Calla, King returns to the present-day challenges facing Roland and his companions, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy.  Much like in The Wastelands (the third book of the series), Wolves of the Calla tells the story not only of the ongoing quest for the Dark Tower but also of a more immediate predicament--in this case, the plight of the town of Calla Byrn Sturgis.  King tantalizes the reader through brief returns to the New York City setting as well as glimpses of the tasks which lie ahead of the gunslingers in the future.  In addition, dedicated King followers will appreciate the tie-ins with other King works, namely 'Salem's Lot.  Although not quite as captivating as the second two books in the series, Wolves of the Calla is a satisfying continuation of this fascinating saga which will whet the reader's appetite for the two remaining Dark Tower novels, both of which are scheduled to be published in 2004.	2004-01-13
US	52571463	R2IBEZZ1BOG8ZF	0060090383	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Another visit with Ireland's memorable Walsh sisters	This is Keyes' second installment in a trio of books about the Walsh sisters--the book that preceeds it is Watermelon, which focuses on oldest sister Claire, and the third book is Angels, the story of Margaret, the second oldest.  Rachel's Holiday features (of course) Rachel, the middle child of five sisters (the youngest two sisters, Helen and Anna, make appearances in all three of the books).  Rachel has been separated from her family in Ireland for the past eight years and has been living with her roommate Brigit in New York City.  After a night of \\"a little too march partying\\" lands her in the hospital to have her stomach pumped, Rachel is whisked back to Ireland by her sister Margaret and brother-in-law for a stay at The Cloisters, an inpatient addictions center.  Although skeptical that she needs treatment, Rachel agrees, thinking that a spa vacation might be nice after all--hence the book's title.<br /><br />Not surprisingly, Rachel arrives at The Cloisters in a state of full denial; it slowly dawns on her that this is no holiday.  Through both her own experiences and those of the other patients (or \\"inmates,\\" as Rachel calls them), we see Rachel's attitude gradually begin to change.  Although the majority of the book takes place within the treatment center, the story also follows Rachel's departure from The Cloisters and briefly recounts her life during the 1 1/2 years which follow.<br /><br />Marilyn Keyes is a funny, engaging writer, and she does a good job here of injecting humor into a serious topic.  However, this light treatment of drug addiction makes it difficult to empathize with the real pain Rachel experiences at times, as her emotions tend to come off in a melodramatic fashion.  Furthermore, I found it hard to believe Rachel's extreme denial about her own situation, especially in light of the overwhelming evidence to the contrary which Keyes reveals to the reader little by little (however, perhaps an actual survivor of addiction would find that the story rings true).  Finally, at 592 pages, I found the book to be a bit too long to be the fun, light reading that it portends to be.<br /><br />Personally, I think that Watermelon was the best of these three books, but if you can't resist learning more about the other Walsh sisters, Rachel's Holiday and Angels are worth a look.he story rings true).  Finally, at 592 pages, I found the book to be a bit too long to be the fun, light reading that it portends to be.<br /><br />Personally, I think that Watermelon was the best of these three books, but if you can't resist learning more about the other Walsh sisters, Rachel's Holiday and Angels are worth a look.	2004-01-12
US	52571463	R1SRZZZ5FA8SPT	0743227824	392498583	Journey Into Power	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Excellent for developing or enhancing a home yoga practice	I've been practicing yoga at home for a little over two years without ever taking a class.  In an effort to enhance my home practice, including perfecting my form and moving into some more challenging poses, I previewed many different yoga books from the library, and Journey Into Power is the one I eventually purchased.<br />In this book, Baron does an excellent job of explaining how to incorporate a regular yoga practice into your life.  Although the book is broken into several sections, including one on a cleasing diet, what I found most helpful was his descriptions of the poses (asanas) themselves.  Baron groups the poses into about 12 different categories--sun salutations 1 &amp; 2, balancing poses, hip openers, abdominals, backbends, etc--and then explains how to either mix and match the groupings when time is limited or do the entire 90 minute program.<br />In his explanations of the individual poses, Baron is clear, precise, and thorough.  He begins with a &quot;connecting vinyasa&quot; which explains exactly how to move from one pose to the next.  For each pose, Baron talks about setup, allignment, breathing, risk factors, and finally, a suggestion for meditation.  What hooked me on the book is that after I read his instructions for Crow pose--a challenging arm balancing pose--I was immediately able to do the pose for the very first time!  Baron's descriptive style reminds of Brooke Siler's in The Pilates Body, as he has a similar enouraging and non-intimidating manner.<br />If you are looking to develop or enhance a home yoga practice, you will not be disappointed in this book--and at this great amazon.com price, how can you lose?	2004-01-12
US	52571463	R3S3P2WC6XPWCT	0312423772	30347471	Shadow Baby (Today Show Book Club #14)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An engaging short novel	This book centers around Clara, a precocious 11 year old, and her friendship with Georg, an immigrant seven times her age.  Clara is an odd child who is obsessed with words--she loves some words for the arrangement of their consonants, like martyr, and hates other words, like winter.  Winter also happens to be Clara's last name, but in her own mind, she always spells it with a lowercase \\"w,\\" as she sees winter as dangerous and blames it for the death of her twin sister at birth.  Clara feels lost without her twin, and she can't get any answers from her mother about who her father is, what really happened on the night of her birth, and why she's never met her grandfather.  She asks questions of George too--initially, she sets out to interview him as part of a class project--and when his own answers are elusive, Clara makes up stories to fill in the blanks.  This is an engaging tale of a girl trying to make sense of her world through questions, words, and stories.	2004-01-05
US	52571463	RUBFC9IBDMYD7	0060008024	568824372	Angels	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another look into the lives of the Walsh sisters	After featuring eldest sister Claire in her book Watermelon, in Angels, author Keyes turns to the story of Maggie, the &quot;good&quot; sister who has never given her parents any trouble.  As the book opens, however, Maggie is experiencing difficulties with her husband, and a surprising revealation causes her to make the suddent decision to leave him and return home.  Rather than remain there, she decides to spend some time in LA with her Irish friend, Emily, an aspiring screenwriter, and it is there that the trouble REALLY starts.<br />Although I found Maggie's LA adventures to be somewhat unrealistic at times, I enjoyed her story more than Claire's, mainly because it was much less predicable.  Throughout the book, the author alludes to secrets in Maggie's past; all is revealed through occasional flashbacks which are woven into the story, but the reader must be patient:  Maggie's full history is not told until well over halfway through the book.  This is an engaging tale for all who enjoy &quot;chick lit&quot;--or, in other words, the struggles of young women in their romantic lives.	2003-12-30
US	52571463	RDQLG4XU9XIU3	0679412611	724256238	Plain Jane	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Entertaining but flawed novel	Although overall, I found the story of Jane, the &quot;plain&quot; sibling of beautiful older sister Caroline and forgotten younger brother Willy, to be engaging, I felt that the book had several flaws.  First of all, although the book is described as a coming of age story, Jane is 19, not 13.  Unfortunately, she frequently comes across as if she were the latter, as evidenced by storylines such as her fantastical crush on her former psychiatrist and her devastation upon hearing the news of her parents' separation.  To me, these reactions did not seem &quot;real&quot; for a 19 year old.<br />I also found it difficult to figure out exactly WHEN the story was supposed to take place, which left me feeling confused.  For example, Jane talks about her sister's failure to use cloth diapers by saying something like &quot;she used those plastic things, Pampers or whatever they're called.&quot;  When my youngest sister was born in 1979, I was 11 years old, and I definitely knew what Pampers were--does this mean the story takes place earlier than this?  If so, it might explain why Jane acts much less mature than the average 19 year old, but other indicators in the story suggest a more modern time frame.<br />Finally, the conclusion left me feeling disappointed.  Within the span of only a paragraph or two, Jane has a sudden ephiphany about her life, suggesting that everything will be different from now on.  This happened too quickly to be realistic to me, and too many loose ends were left.  Despite these flaws, however, the book certainly does have some enjoyment value as a light read.	2003-12-15
US	52571463	R1VLUQJ52S0OIG	0553111116	642513420	Miracle and Other Christmas Stories (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	If you love Christmas--the good AND the bad--read this book!	As soon as I read the first few lines of the author's introduction--&quot;I love Christmas.  All of it--decorating the tree and singing in the choir and baking cookies and wrapping presents.  I even like the parts most people hate--shopping in crowded malls and reading Christmas newsletters and seeing relatives and standing in baggage check-in lines at the airport.&quot;--I knew this book was for me!  Like Willis, I'm crazy about Christmas; there's virtually no aspect of the holidays which I dislike.  I also enjoy science fiction, and so I was eager to discover what Willis had in store for her readers.<br />The stories in this book aren't exactly classical science fiction; there are no beings from other planets, giant creatures, robotics, or anything of that sort.  Rather, the tales contain elements that are more supernatural in nature and involve the appearance of various ghosts and other strange phenomena.  Although certainly not the traditional sappy Christmas fare, all of the stories have happy endings.  Furthermore, Willis's love of Christmas shines through her writing, and thus each story embodies the magic of the Christmas season.<br />The best way to determine if you'll like this book is to answer the question posed by the title story:  which Christmas movie is better, IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE or MIRACLE ON 34th STREET?  If you chose the latter, read this book!	2003-12-08
US	52571463	R38ONK31POH0DW	0446677922	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A pleasing mixture of several genres	In The Bottoms, author Joe Lansdale has superimposed a murder mystery over a coming of age story.  To this he adds the setting of the rural south during the Great Depression which he couples with the racial tensions of that place and time.  The result of this eccletic mixture is an engaging page-turner with wide appeal.  Landsdale tells his story from the perspective of 11-year Harry, although it is an elderly Harry looking back on his childhood who narrates the tale.  A chance discovery of Harry and his younger sister, Tom, launches a search for a serial killer by their father, Jacob, the town's constable.  Memorable characters along the way include Harry's eccentric grandmother, a black doctor ahead of his time, a bigoted old man and his hateful sons, a neighboring constable with connections to both of Harry's parents, a reclusive elderly black man, and finally, a mysterious figure known only as the &quot;Goat Man.&quot;  Although the plot does have parallels to To Kill a Mockingbird, its blend of elements makes it uniquely worthwhile.  And even if you solve the mystery ahead of time like I did, this book is sure to captivate you to the very last page.	2003-12-01
US	52571463	RMIGFLK1TUBB0	076112599X	441163521	I Do. I Did. Now What?!: Life After the Wedding Dress	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Laugh-out loud funny!	This book isn't a guide to marriage any more than Paul Reiser's \\"Couplehood\\" is; rather, it's a humorous memoir about one woman's experiences as a newlywed.  The book contains many themes universal to all domestic partnerships (not just marriage), including the endless debate of \\"what's for dinner?,\\" arguments that drag on for days (dubbed here \\"The Perfect Fight\\" a la \\"The Perfect Storm\\"), and the challenges of trying to be a good mate when the perfect \\"suburn legend\\" wife is living next door (she even makes her own onion dip--WITHOUT using Lipton's soup mix).  Yes, Lee can come off a bit spoiled and bratty at times--few people will be able to relate to her single, Sex in the City NYC lifestyle of parties and Prada--but overall, she is candid, funny, and willing to be self-effacing.  A fun read for anyone struggling to acheive domestic bliss.	2003-11-24
US	52571463	R3G0ZYF8V9ECMD	0802117333	359793835	Ice Cream	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quirky collection of character studies	In this collection of short stories, Helen Dunmore focuses on quick, in-depth character sketches.  The reader is exposed to a variety of scenarios, from the reality based--in the title story, an actress denies herself her favorite indulgencies in order to maintain her fame--to the unreal--a story of a horrific future where cloning is praised and natural births are punished.  Many of the plots involve themes of serious illness and/or death, including &quot;You Stayed Awake With Me&quot; (a woman with terminal illness confronts the past), &quot;The Lighthouse Keeper's Wife&quot; (a doting husband reflects on loss), &quot;Emily's Ring&quot; (a young girl is burdened with the care of her many half-siblings), and &quot;Lisette&quot; (a promosing young family is doomed in WWII France).   Many of the tales are set in the past; the time isn't always specified, but several stories have a turn of the century feel.  One character, Ulli, appears in three different stories; at first, she seems to be a world-weary woman, but in the final story, we learn that she is a 16 year old girl.  Of the 18 stories in the book, most are 10-12 pages in length, with the longest being 24 pages and the shortest being only 4 pages.  Overall, this book is a short, engaging read that may leave you wondering what happens next.	2003-11-20
US	52571463	R2274AHAQLI9P8	0312273312	532413185	Yoga: The Poetry of the Body	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Makes yoga accessible for everyone	I have been practicing yoga at home with videos for about 2 years from now, and Rodney Yee is my favorite instructor.  However, I've heard some people criticize his videos as being too mystical or too fast-paced, especially for beginners.  In this book, Yee makes yoga accessible to everyone in part by making HIMSELF accessible--ie, via the reprinted conversations with his co-author, Nina Zolotow.  The interviews allow the reader to see Yee as a real person rather than the yogi &quot;master&quot; he is often considered to be (he even jokes about this title in the book!).  Furthermore, although he does discuss Eastern influences in his own yoga practice, he places great emphasis on yoga being fun and enjoyable and encourages modifications rather than a strive for &quot;perfect&quot; form.<br />In addition to talking about his craft, Yee offers eight varied yoga practices appropriate for beginning students; each practice focuses on a theme, such as &quot;falling&quot; or &quot;breathing.&quot;  Beautifully simple black and white photographes of either Yee or his wife, Donna Fone, performing the poses accompany each practice.  In the last section, &quot;Posing and Reposing,&quot; each of the 45 poses utilized in the practices is photo-illustrated and described in detail.  Although this book is aimed at beginners, it will stimulate the thought of any aspiring yogi.  Highly recommended!	2003-11-17
US	52571463	R2X3DL3U9YL0RO	0679722874	693721236	Yoga:  The Iyengar Way: The New Definitive Illustrated Guide	Books	4	62	70	N	N	Thorough introduction to yoga poses at various levels	This book provides excellent information on a wide variety of yoga poses, or asanas.  Each asana is clearly illustrated and accompanied by step-by-step instructions on how to complete the pose; the information provided is detailed and straight-forward.  The asasas are broken up into groups--standing poses, seated poses, etc.--and each individual pose is clearly labelled for level of difficulty, from one star (beginners) to four stars (advanced).  At the end of the book, suggestions for various yoga practices are provided based on the the four levels of difficulty.<br />Although the information contained in this book is exemplary, there are several reasons why I do not feel it would be appropriate for beginners.  First of all, I found the tone to be somewhat snobbish at times, such as when it suggested that if you have difficulties in a pose, you might need to go to a yoga teacher for &quot;correction.&quot;  Secondly, I have been practicing yoga for two years, and many of the poses labeled as either appropriate for &quot;beginners&quot; or &quot;general practice&quot; are still quite challenging to me.  Third, throughout the book, poses are referred to by their traditional Indian names rather than the common names which are used today--ie, Tadasena rather than Mountain Pose.  This is not a problem when you're looking at the actual pose, but the practices at the end of the book refer to the Indian name only and without photographs, which necessitates flipping back and forth through the book in order to attempt a practice.  Finally, although modifications are suggested for each pose, many of these are not illustrated, which would make it difficult for beginners to follow along.<br />I think this book would probably be most appropriate for intermediates looking to further their practice.  For beginners, I would recommend Rodney Yee's &quot;Yoga: The Poetry of the Body&quot; as an alternate yoga book, or Patrica Walden's video &quot;Yoga Practice for Beginners,&quot; which also closely follows the Iyengar method.ich also closely follows the Iyengar method.	2003-11-17
US	52571463	R3PUXDMX28WQKN	0385502311	336738950	I Like Being Married: Treasured Traditions, Rituals, and Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Poignant reflections on marriage	Being a newlywed, this book caught my eye, although having lived with my husband for 9 years prior to marriage, I wasn't sure if the message would apply to me.  I was pleased to discover that this warm-hearted collection of sentiments on marriage is appropriate for newlyweds and long-time married couples alike.  At its heart, this book is about people who love each other commmiting to sharing their lives together, no matter what.  The authors compiled stories and quotes about marriage from a wide variety of sources, including famous married couples (eg, George Burns and Gracie Allen), literary figures such as Shakespeare, and average married couples.  The information is beautifully organized into chapters to illustrate various components of marriage, such as history, romance, weddings, obstacles, families, culture, and the like.  There are wonderful stories about not just love, but also tradition, perseverence, and miracles.  A wonderful book for anyone who truly believes that love conquers all.	2003-11-10
US	52571463	R3LS63M5EKX40V	0913580767	408946852	Signs of the Times	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent reference manual for Sign Language	I took sign language courses in college, and this was the textbook that we used.  It is an excellent reference manual which provides a multitude of signs applicable to everyday life.  The author begins by explaining that his book features signs most consistent with Manually Coded English (MCE), letting the readers know that Pidgen Sign English (PSE) and American Sign Language (ASL) may differ somewhat in signs and syntax.  He then provides a thorough review of how to interpret the illustrations which are used to portray each sign in the book.  The black and white human figure line drawings which illustrate the signs are clear, simple, and easy to replicate.  The book is well-organized, as each chapter offers signs related to a single concept or idea (eg, family).  Also, the book begins with the most commonly used signs and gradually progresses to signs which allow the expression of more complex situations and ideas.  At the end of each chapter, there is a list of sentences for practicing the new vocabulary words learned.  When I was taking sign language classes, I found this to be an excellent teaching tool, and now that I am trying to teach signs to my nieces, I find it to be a wonderful resource.	2003-11-10
US	52571463	R3DVKSXIJ1B8AS	0743444108	452256139	Hitched: The Go-Girl Guide to the First Year of Marriage	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Some useful information appropriate for younger newlyweds	As both a newlywed and an avid reader, I've been searching for books to provide some witty and amusing insights into marriage.  However, given that I'm in my mid-30s and that I lived with my husband for almost 9 years prior to our recent marriage, I recognized that most of the books out there won't really apply to me.  I was hoping that HITCHED would be different:  the author, Julia Bourland, is in her 30s, and she also lived with her husband for several years prior to marraige.  Sadly, while I did find her book to be humorous and engaging, it wasn't what I was hoping for.<br />My first disappointment about this book was that Bourland spent the first fourth discussing the pre-engagement, engagement, wedding, and honeymoon periods.  This seemed somewhat unneccessary and even dishonest to me:  after all, the subtitle of the book refers to the \\"First Year of Marriage,\\" so that's what I had expected to read about.  This section really offerred nothing that I hadn't already via various other books on marriage.  Eventually, Bourland turns to the marriage itself, but even here, she spends too much time focusing on issues which usually come up immediately after the wedding (eg, the paperwork involved in the name-change process).  She goes on to review some of the factors involved in setting up a household; given that my husband and I already owned a house, I found this section to be completely inapplicable to my situation.  She also talks about topics such as time management, division of labor, and negotiation.  Although there was some useful information here, again, couples who lived together before marriage are likely to have worked through most of these issues already.<br />More successful was the next chapter, as Bourland goes on to discuss changes that you can expect in yourself.  Given that I recently went out and got my own post-wedding chop (haircut), I found I could relate to the more universal types of issues described here.  Similarly, the chapters which follow address marital problems related to sex, money, and in-laws, three areas of difficulties with wide-spread application to young newlyweds and veteran couples alike.  Although the suggestions provided were often fairly common-sense, Bourland's down-to-earth style keeps the writing interesting.  Chapter 8, titled \\"On becoming a 'smug married',\\" was exactly what I had wanted from this book--a discussion of the factors which change due to the marriage itself rather than to the fact of living with someone in an intimate relationship, such as a change in status, separation from single girlfriends, etc.  Bourland ends the book with a review of her six gospels of marriage (flexibility, friendship, faith, fantasy, fecundity, and farsightness) as well as some tips for anniversary celebrations.<br />Although this book was not exactly what I had hoped for, it was still an enjoyable read.  As mentioned previously, Bourland has a likeable writing style, and the book has many funny moments.  In addition, to prepare for writing the book, she interviewed 60 married women about their experiences during the first year; the various quotes and insights from these women truly enhance the final result.  This is definitely a good book, but one that is not necessarily applicable to all newlyweds.ddress marital problems related to sex, money, and in-laws, three areas of difficulties with wide-spread application to young newlyweds and veteran couples alike.  Although the suggestions provided were often fairly common-sense, Bourland's down-to-earth style keeps the writing interesting.  Chapter 8, titled \\"On becoming a 'smug married',\\" was exactly what I had wanted from this book--a discussion of the factors which change due to the marriage itself rather than to the fact of living with someone in an intimate relationship, such as a change in status, separation from single girlfriends, etc.  Bourland ends the book with a review of her six gospels of marriage (flexibility, friendship, faith, fantasy, fecundity, and farsightness) as well as some tips for anniversary celebrations.<br />Although this book was not exactly what I had hoped for, it was still an enjoyable read.  As mentioned previously, Bourland has a likeable writing style, and the book has many funny moments.  In addition, to prepare for writing the book, she interviewed 60 married women about their experiences during the first year; the various quotes and insights from these women truly enhance the final result.  This is definitely a good book, but one that is not necessarily applicable to all newlyweds.	2003-11-07
US	52571463	R3K3JT1RDKGS7I	0805068953	997529424	Getting the Love You Want: A Guide for Couples	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Excellent resource for couples	As a psychologist in a college counseling center, I don't often have the opportunity to work with couples, but when I do, I always recommend this book.  GETTING THE LOVE YOU WANT is an excellent self-help manual which is appropriate for all couples looking to enhance or to repair their relationship.  Harville addresses the unconscious factors which contribute to who we choose as a mate, particularly the impact that significant figures from our childhoods (namely, our parents) can have on our relationships.  He goes on to discuss in detail his Ten Characteristics of Developing a Conscious Marriage (or relationship).  Each characteristic is illustrated using examples as well as a series of simple exercises which couples complete either individually or together.  The 16 exercises are what make this book effective, and so it is vital that couples using the book make a commitment to work together.  Those who are motivated for change will reap the rewards of this excellent self-help tool.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	RW8PVR2T2RH97	0465036104	955729921	The Yalom Reader: Selections From The Work Of A Master Therapist And Storyteller	Books	5	28	29	N	N	An excellent overview of Yalom's prior work	As a psychologist working in a college counseling center, I found this book to be a useful review of Yalom's prior publications.  The first part of the book draws from Yalom's definitive text on group therapy, THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF GROUP PSYCHOTHERAPY.  In this section, he addresses some of the most salient therapeutic factors to group treatment as well provides vital guidelines for therapists serving as group facilitators.  He also describes group therapy with several different types of specialized groups:  hospitalized patients, patients addicted to alcohol, the terminally ill, and the bereaved (although this last group was aimed at widows/widowers, I have been able to adapt some of the concepts to my work wtih college students).  Part two centers on existential therapy, as Yalom provides excerpts from his previous text by that same name.  He spends time examining each of the four ultimate concerns--death, freedom, isolation, and meaninglessness--and he focuses particularly on death and anxiety in psychotherapy.  In the final section of the book, Yalom espouses on psychology and writing, and he reviews his journey from therapist to fiction writer.  Yalom is a thoughtful and engaging writer who provides intelligent insights into some of the most critical areas of psychotherapy in this enjoyable and important book.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	RFAGAQLEVHXC0	013386250X	778404010	The helping relationship: Process and skills (Prentice-Hall series in counseling and human development)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Basic overview of helping skills for use in various settings	I'm currently a psychologist, and this book was assigned for one of my undergraduate courses in counseling techniques.  It provides a basic overview of fundamental helping skills appropriate to a wide variety of situations.  Particularly useful is the section on &quot;Helping Skills for Understanding,&quot; which includes detailed explanations of the various skills which contribute to active listening.  The information on problem-solving and other behavior strategies offer some utility as well, but the minimal attention given to more advanced behavioral skills does not do these areas justice.  Similarly, the chapter on loss and crisis provides some useful information, but it also oversimplifies an extremely complex area.  This book is best utilized as a basic introduction to helping strategies, and it would be useful to such populations as peer counselors, students, volunteers, etc.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	R1PFK8AY74N2SX	0205143830	755173499	Helping People Change: A Textbook of Methods (4th Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent reference book for behavioral change strategies	I am a psychologist, and when I was in graduate school in the early 1990s, this was one of my required textbooks.  The book has withstood the test of time to become an invaluable reference tool which I use regularly in my practice with college students.  Covering everything from basic helping strategies to behavioral modication, the material has a wide variety of applications.  I regularly use the \\"Conversational DOs and DON'Ts\\" as part of my workshop on Listening Skills for Resident Assistants and other students, and I have created many educational handouts for clients which utilize the various methods for managing anxiety described in the book.  Also useful are the chapters on community resources and group methods.  Overall, this is an excellent resource for anyone in a helping profession, from teachers to guidance counselors to therapists.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	R1I5QW5QNOKH9Q	1556910622	347710285	If She Is Raped (Human Services Library)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Excellent book for males supporting a female rape survivor	I am a psychologist working in a college counselor center, and I highly recommend this book.  It is designed to help male loved ones of a female rape survivors to understand rape from a woman's point of view, and thus it is appropriate for boyfriends, husbands, fathers, and male friends.  The individual chapters address important issues such as understanding rape, dealing with immediate concerns, and reporting rape.  The book offers specific guidelines and suggestions on how to help the survivor, including do's and don'ts, what to say to the survivor and others, and how to provide reassurance.  Finally, three helpful appendices provide case studies, a list of rape crisis centers throughout the US and Canada, and a bibliography of suggested readings.  A must-have book for men providing support to the women they love.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	R308OPV4Z7WYLS	0618260250	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An incredible trilogy combined into one easy-to-read volume	Although I had already read the LOTR trilogy several years ago, I was thrilled to receive this one volume paperback as a gift, and I thoroughly enjoyed re-reading this epic story.  Tokien has taken the classic tale of good versus evil and has turned it into a completely captivating adventure involving humility and greed, love and hate, corruption and redemption.  Although you know that the good will succeed in the end (as it always does), you can't help to feel both awed and amazed as the humble Frodo overcomes incredible odds to save the beautifully wrought realm of Middle-Earth, a world that seems to actually exist beyond the pages of these books.<br />This single volume helpfully combines not only the books themselves but also the many complex supporting resources that make up Tolkien's world--ie, maps, appendices, etc.  I found it extremely useful to have all of these materials contained in one book; I enjoyed my second reading of this series more than the first party due to having access to all three books at once.  This classic work has stood the test of time, and it is likely to continue entralling new readers for generations to come.	2003-11-05
US	52571463	R2K5FSAYHL56BP	0316236551	684632476	Ed Emberley's Drawing Book of Faces	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another classic!	If your child likes to draw, you can't beat Ed Emberley for his fun, creative, and best of all EASY drawing instructions.  He provides simple, step-by-step pictorial guidelines which even young children can  follow:  if they can recognize and reproduce basic shapes, then they can draw the faces in this book.  For each step of a particular drawing, there is a basic instruction such as \\"make a green triangle\\" or \\"add two squiggly lines.\\" These instructions are accompanied by two sketches:  a drawing of whatever it is to be added and a drawing of the face-in-progress as a whole, so children can easily see how the parts fit together. Not only does this book provide a fun play activity, but also it's great for helping school-aged kids to enhance book reports and other school projects. Even adults will appreciate both the ease at which this book helps them to produce a wide variety of silly faces and the author's humorous style.  A great gift for pre-school and elementary school aged children.	2003-11-04
US	52571463	RJSLDLNDSLXNQ	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun and intelligent chick lit	The title character of this book, Lucy Sullivan, is a 26-year old single Irish woman living in London.  As the story opens, Lucy and 3 co-workers pay a visit to Mrs. Nolan, who is supposedly a \\"real\\" psychic.  Initially, Lucy laughs off Mrs. Nolan's prediction that she will be married within the year (18 months at the outside), but when Mrs. Nolan's predictions seem to start coming true for her friends, she begins to wonder.  When she meets Gus, an eccentric but fun partygoer, Lucy is almost certain that her fate has begun to change for the better.<br />What follows is a romantic comedy with substance, wit, and intellect.  At 400+ pages, the book is more well-developed than you will find in most books of this genre, although there were more moments when the story dragged just a bit.  Some of the supporting characters (eg, the gay friend) and the outcomes (eg, girl gets boy) were a bit familiar, but this did not detract from the fact that the details were both original and entertaining.  I found myself reading almost the entire book one lazy Sunday, becoming so engaged in the story that I couldn't put it down until I had finished.  This was definitely an enjoyable read, and I'm looking forward to checking out the author's other works.	2003-11-03
US	52571463	R3VL3OLRTBP6B8	0385087330	651280243	Don't Look Now	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Classic thrillers	Du Maurier has a clear talent for writing intelligent, engaging prose in a very accessible, clear style.  Her characters are real, and their conversations are completely believable.  My favorite of the five tales featured here was the title story; like du Maurier's classic novel Rebecca, this is a taunt psychological thriller with a surprise ending.  In the second story, &quot;The Breakthrough,&quot; the standard search for life after death is presented in a unique light.  My least-favorite story of the book was the third, &quot;Not After Midnight,&quot; as it had a disappointing ending which I still don't fully understand.  In the fourth story, &quot;A Border-line Case,&quot; the characters are less believable than is typical for du Maurier, yet the story is still worthwhile.  Finally, for the last tale, &quot;The Way of the Cross,&quot; du Maurier takes a different tact by telling the story from the perspectives of several main characters rather than just one, and the positive result is less thriller, more human interest.  du Maurier is an excellent storyteller, and most readers are likely to find something to praise in at least one of this book's well-written stories.	2003-10-30
US	52571463	R3IKR5XJLF571	0028610105	755707312	How To Cook Everything: Simple Recipes for Great Food	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent resource for beginning and experienced cooks alike	Bittman's &quot;How to Cook Everything&quot; contains the greatest breadth and variety of material that you will ever find in a cookbook.  Actually, calling it a &quot;cookbook&quot; is somewhat of a misnomer, as it's more appropriately a cookbook slash instruction manual.  The chapters cover very basic categories of food--eg, &quot;grains,&quot; &quot;vegetables,&quot; &quot;meats,&quot; etc.  Within each chapter, you will get not only recipes but also specific instructions on how to prepare each type of food.  Making a chicken dish?  Find out exactly how to cut up a whole chicken.  Need fresh pineapple?  Learn how to cut a whole pineapple into chunks.  The recipes which follow are simple, easy to replicate, and best of all, open to a wide variety of adaptions.  Once he provides the basic recipe, Bittman makes all kinds of suggestions for minor changes which can majorly alter the dish; this is a wonderful learning tool for novice cooks.<br />There are no pictures here, but helpful illustrations are used throughout.  Trust me, you will refer to this book time and time again, whether it's to answer a quick question, to try cooking something new, or simply to go back to the basics (ie, how long to boil an egg for hard-boiled).  A great reference book to enhance any kitchen.	2003-10-24
US	52571463	R1WDFRRXD6V4Y7	0811827143	233103962	My Only Story	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Lyrical prose highlights a sadly beautiful story	The main character of this book, Rita, has experienced many losses in her 30-something years:  the loss of her beloved grandmother to cancer, the loss of her infuriating older sister to a cummune, the loss of her childhood home and the town where she grew up, and finally, the loss of her marriage and related hopes for a child.  Despite all this, she sees herself as a healer, and when she meets John, a lost soul, she sets out to save him.  John tells Rita his &quot;only story,&quot; his own tale of love and loss.  Rita sets out on a mission to give John his life back, but somewhere along the way, she discovers that she is trying to save herself as well.  Eventually, Rita makes the decision to sacrifice her own dreams in order to grant the wish of the enchanting little girl who holds the key to John's salvation.<br />Wood's book is beautifully written, even haunting at times; Rita's yearnings will stir up your own emotions, moving you to both anger and tears.  The story is rich with originality, and the ending provides a conclusion that is both happy and sad.  The one thing that prevented me from giving the book 5 stars was the transformation of Rita's character.  When we first meet her, Rita is portrayed as a quirky, strong survivor type with a good head on her shoulders; there is something clearly mystical about her as well.  Over the course of the story, however, Rita starts to become needy, selfish, and even a bit unhinged.  Of course, this metamorphosis is partly in service of the plot, and by the end of the book, Rita is her old self again; I just found the changes to be a bit too much out-of character.  However, this a minor flaw, and it does not detract from the fact that My Only Story is a rich, rewarding read.	2003-10-20
US	52571463	RYNPXD70L6YJB	1903116066	353345479	The Glories of Cross Stitch: Over 25 Designs Celebrating the Beauty of Our World	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Unique and beautiful designs!	This book is a collection of cross-stitch samplers in unique and beautiful designs.  Since I love anything with a celeistial theme, I was attracted to the full chapter devoted to several attractive and varied designs incoporating sun, moon, stars, and planets.  More common categories such as garden and nature include more original work than you will find anywhere else.  Many of the samplers have a wonderfully old-fashioned look to them, and the completed projects are finished and photographed beautifully.  The book also contains a wide variety of cross-stitch alphabets to assist you with customizing your projects.  A wonderful book for serious cross-stitchers who are addicted to samplers!	2003-10-16
US	52571463	R1SS14XBVNDZ0C	0806937033	948426985	Donna Kooler's Cross-Stitch Designs: 333 Patterns for Ready-to-Stitch Projects	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great ideas for small projects	This is a collection of small cross-stitch projects, many of which are perfect for gifts.  The book's chapters are organized by type of project--eg, Designs for Baby, Designs for Mugs, Designs for Towels, Designs for Bookmarks, etc.  Although not all of the designs are pictured as finished products, the charts are clear and simple enough to allow you to imagine the finished version.  The designs are beautiful without being complicated (ie, not a lot of half-stitches or backstitching).  Some basic alphabets are also included to customize your projects.  Overall, this is an excellent book for beginning and other cross-stitchers who enjoy small, manageable projects and who like giving their work as gifts.	2003-10-16
US	52571463	RS18TP1HJB05X	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	41	48	N	N	Captivating portrayal of descent into mental illness	As a psychologist, I believe that Sylvia Plath's novel accurately portrays the confusion and disorientation that accompany mental illness.  Unfortunately, while the main character, a young college student named Ester Greenwood, rings true, the book itself is as confusing and disorienting as Ester's life.  Plath's literary style seems to be to wander from scene-to-scene and present-to-past with little or no transition.  The book was so disjointed that at times I looked to see if there were pages missing; how Ester goes from point A to point B is often unclear.  Despite this, Ester is a real person undergoing a real struggle with a real disorder.  Her thoughts of suicide are described in a simple, matter of fact manner that is extremely honest, and both the positive and negative aspects of her treatment are exposed.  The book's ending, while optimistic, is overshadowed by Plath's own eventual suicide; it is the author's own experience and tragedy which makes this largely autobiographical novel a classic.	2003-10-15
US	52571463	RKR1MJFY0JWH4	081296666X	645608703	Things My Girlfriend and I Have Argued About: A Novel	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Definitely has some funny moments	I have very mixed feelings about this book.  On the one hand, author Mil Millington has written some moments that are laugh-out-loud funny.  In the tradition of Nick Hornsby, Millington writes about a British male, Pel, who is witty and sardonic while at the same time being neurotic and insecure.  Some of the book's funniest lines come from Pel's perspective, such as when he talks about making the transition from a young guy in love to a domestic partner:  \\"There's a thin line that divides the man you were from the person shuffling around Ikea with a stupid big yellow bag and dead eyes.\\"  Great stuff, there, but the relationship between Pel and his long-time girlfriend, the German-born Ursula, is not nearly so amusing.  Pel and Ursula spend virtually all of their time together arguing, and although there's a playful feel to their disagreements, there's also a darker side, as Ursula is constantly threatening Pel with increasingly creative forms of bodily harm.  Little affection is displayed between the two; I can recall a single kiss and a few allusions to sex, but that's about it.<br />And then there's the plot itself.  Pel is employed as a mid-level tech manager at a university library.  When his immediate supervisor, TSR, resigns suddenly and under mysterious circumstances, Pel is awared the dubious honor of being promoted--while still fulfilling the duties of his former position, of course.  Soon, Pel finds himself embroiled in a complicated series of circumstances and conspiracies which come across to the reader as increasingly unbelievable and, even worse, uninteresting.  The book has enough funny lines to keep the reader going, but you may wish that it didn't, as parts of the story were difficult to slog through.  Still, Millington clearly has some comic talent, and he may have more of it to offer in the future.	2003-10-06
US	52571463	R3SXF1PMSFF11H	0380820447	399660588	For Better, for Worse: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Engaging novel with some flaws	This book describes one of those love stories where everything keeps going wrong--the two main characters experience a series of miscommunications and mishaps that keeps them from getting together until the very end of the book.  If that in and of itself wasn't frustrating enough, the storyline includes some pretty unrealistic twists:  the female lead, Josie, is freshly separated from her husband and still grieving this loss while pursuing a new love; the male lead, Matt, is desperate to find Josie yet still becomes involved with another woman along the way; and Josie's cousin, supposedly having a perfect wedding, still begins having doubts when her ex-boyfriend shows up on her wedding day.  Of course, everything works out in the end, and although you may feel frustrated by the impossibility of it all along the way, the ride is still fairly enjoyable.	2003-09-29
US	52571463	R1G40ZHDEANTU4	1400040272	432713174	And Now You Can Go	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Quirky story about a life-changing experience	This book opens with the story of how El, a female graduate student in New York City, has a gun put to her head while she is taking her usual walk through the park.  Her assailant does not ask for money; instead, he tells her that he does not wish to die alone.  El does the only thing she can think of, which is to quote the poems that her mother made her memorize as a child.  Her distraction tactic succeeds, and her assailant tells her &quot;Look, you can run now.  You can go and do whatever you want.&quot;<br />By Page 10, it's all over, and the 170 or so pages which follow detail El's response to this event.  Her behavior is somewhat erractic:  she avoids her boyfriend, wanders the city, ands heads to the Phillipines with her mother, all the while her life is defined by an incident which lasted only a matter of minutes.  At times, El is unlikeable, seeming self-centered and driftless, but at other times, you can't help but to put yourself in her shoes and wonder if you'd react any differently.  The end of the book brings some resolution to El's story; we're led to believe that she's going to be okay, and again, you can't help but to root for her.	2003-09-29
US	52571463	R2AEDEBV83I3S0	0743457463	907675299	Irish Girls About Town	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Female adventures both fun and frustrating	This short story collection is chock-full of women's issues, from dealing with difficult friendships to finding Mr. Right to coping with PMS.  The stories are a times predictable (ie, girl gets boy), at times frustrating (ie, girl keeps chasing wrong boy), but also are frequently heart-warming and always engaging.  The biggest author included is Maeve Binchy, and her fans will recognize the characters of her story &quot;Carissima&quot; from several of her books.  However, the lesser-known authors hold their own, and I plan to check out some of their novels as well, such as &quot;Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married&quot; by Marian Keyes.  If you enjoy female fiction combined with Irish/British lit, you're likely to enjoy this book.	2003-09-29
US	52571463	R3QV395XSMG2XK	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A story about guilt, loss, and unconditional love	The Secret Life of Bees is a coming-of-age story set against two unique backdrops:  civil rights and beekeeping.  The Zeitgeist of the Civil Rights movement is woven throughout the book, starting with when  Lily, the 14 year old protagonist, runs away from home with her black caretaker, Rosaleen, after Rosaleen gets arrested on her way to register to vote.  They escape to Tiburon, SC, a place Lily knows only from words written on the back of a picture of the black Madonna which she found amongst her dead mother's things.  In Tiburon, Lily and Rosaleen make their way to the Boatwright sisters, three black beekeepers who kindly take them in.  Having escaped her abusive father, Lily is free to enjoy and take comfort in her surroundings, yet she still feels unloved and yearns for the mother she can barely remember.  As the story progresses, Lily must come to terms with her guilt:  about her mother's death, her deception of the Boatwright sisters, and even being white.  The book has an ending which is positive and affirming without being the perfect Hollywood conclusion; this is an engaging, thought-provoking read which is likely to particularly appeal to daughters who lost their mothers at a young age.	2003-09-23
US	52571463	R91CUS7GRUKZU	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sweet and poignant look at middle America	Thanks to the movie, most readers are already familiar with the most famous scene from this book:  a pregnant teenager gives birth in a Wal-Mart. The teenager is Novalee Nation, and the book describes her story from just before the infamous birth to her daughter's childhood years.  Over the course of time, we see Novalee develop from that scared young teen to a responsible young woman and caring mother.  Along the way, we are treated to watch the unfolding of Novalee's various relationships with others:  Sister Husband, the kind but eccentric older woman who takes Novalee in; Benny Goodluck, the child who becomes Novalee's first friend; Moses Whitecotton, the elderly photographer who sees Novalee's potential; Forney, the shy but sweet man who becomes her closest friend; and finally, a reconnection with Billie Jack, the no-good boyfriend who left Novalee at the Wal-Mart in the first place.  Letts does an excellent job of both developing the relationships amongst the various characters and portraying Novalee's changes throughout the years.  A warm, enjoyable novel.	2003-09-17
US	52571463	R35LH5KT6JSM52	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A unique premise	Most readers know by now that The Lovely Bones is told from the perspective of a deceased main character, Susie, a young girl who has been brutally raped and murdered.  Oddly enough, this seemingly emotion-ladden story comes across as vague and emotionless.  Susie's narration is so matter-of-fact that much of the emotional impact of what she is describing is lost.  The author portrays the reactions of Susie's family to her death in a very real and well-written manner, yet there is a distance there--perhaps the distance that Susie herself feels as she looks down on her loved ones from heaven.  From Susie's perspective, we see heaven as a place that is wonderful yet also sad, as paradise does not prevent Susie from longing for those she left behind.  The story meanders through many years, never quite reaching a point of conclusion.  Although I found this novel to be disappointing, Sebold certainly has shown significant promise for the future, and I wouldn't hesitate to read her next book.	2003-09-16
US	52571463	RZINZD3H2PDRH	0375412824	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An engaging story, but one that doesn't really go anywhere	This is a well-written book with an engaging story:  Carrie, a young engaged woman, has started to become disillusioned by her relationship with Mike, her high school sweetheart.  As she wrestles with this while she and Mike are picnicing with friends on Memorial Day, Mike takes a fateful dive into shallow water and is paralyzed from the neck down.  Mike's accident throws Carrie further into turmoil--she can't leave him now, can she?  But she does leave, escaping to New York to begin a new relationship with the enigmatic Kilroy, who she has only met once.  Carrie's confusion continues, and although she reaches a point of resolution at the end of the book, the reader is left wondering how exactly she got there.<br />One of the main problems I had with this book is that the characters were not particularly likeable.  In particular, Carrie's ambivalence comes across as selfishness, and although the reader might be able to sympathize with her situation, it is easier to feel annoyed with her than to feel sorry for her.  Furthermore, it is difficult to understand Carrie's motivations throughout the book; her actions make little sense, even in the face of tragedy.  Kilroy is a mystery who is portrayed as so cold and distant that the reader is unlikely to care about him at all.  With the exception of perhaps Carrie's mother, the supporting characters come off as hard and judgemental; I just didn't enjoy reading about them.<br />This book has a thought-provoking premise, and the author did a good job of portraying Carrie's ambivalence.  Unfortunately, the question I was left with was &quot;so what?&quot;  But Packer has enough potential that I would still be willing to give future novels a try.	2003-09-16
US	52571463	R2HNM1X6WS6MW2	0715309781	743636566	Sue Cook's Wonderful Cross Stitch Collection: Featuring Hundreds of Original Designs	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Nice variety of cross-stitch designs	This book contains a nice variety of cross-stitch designs and includes suggestions for both small and large projects.  It is organized into easy-to-use categories such as \\"Childhood Days,\\" \\"Holiday Memories,\\" and \\"Special Days.\\"  Each section includes instructions for specific projects plus a variety of additional designs illustrating the same theme.  The instructions are simple and easy to follow, and all of the designs can be adapted into other projects. However, it is important to note that not all designs are pictured, so it is sometimes hard to imagine how a finished project might look.  Two basic alphabets are included for those designs that have words.  Overall, this is a handy reference book for the creative cross-stitcher.	2003-09-15
US	52571463	R34XR1D18N1Z6O	0786808829	251233293	Baby Einstein: The ABC's of Art	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Teach about ABCs and art at the same time!	This is another wonderful book from the Baby Einstein collection, and it stars the lovable character of Vincent Van Goat (complete with bandaged ear!).  Each page of this book offers a famous work of art, which in turn provides an illustration for the featured letter of the alphabet.  The included questions stimulate the child's imagination and encourage creative thinking while also developing art appreciation skills.  This may make the book sound too advanced for little ones, but it is clearly appropriate for a wide age range, from toddlers up to school aged children.  Plus, as with all Baby Eistein books, there are thoughtful tips for parents on how best to use the book with their children.  A wonderful way to enhance your child's intellectional and emotional development!	2003-09-15
US	52571463	R2MQ3Y863AXE28	069620780X	304823389	2001 Cross Stitch Designs : The Essential Reference Book	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Full of ideas for any project	This book is full of tons of ideas to help get you started on any custom cross-stitch project.  Designs are organized into categories such as flowers, hearts, valentines, baby, Christmas, borders, etc.  For each category, there are two pages:  the first shows the final stitched versions for many small designs in that theme, and the second contains the charts and instructions for each design.  The book is well-organized, but the charts can be hard to read.  Also, because the finished designs are done on a variety of colored Aida cloths, the pictures sometimes loose their sharpness.<br />This book contains many designs but no actual projects.  At the end of the book, there are suggestions for how to incorporate the designs into various finished projects such as a keychain or ornament, but these are not complete project instructions.  However, if you are creative, this is a great book to help you come up with your own projects.  Looking for a design for a baby bib?  Check out the wide varieties of infant- and child-themed designs.  Need to enhance an existing project with a flower?  You'll find various types of floral designs here.  Several different cross-stitch alphabets are also included at the end.  Overall, this book contains a large variety of designs appropriate for many custom projects.	2003-09-15
US	52571463	RCDMKABO0WVA6	0786808403	865091558	Baby Einstein: Cats	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Another winner from Baby Einstein	This is a short, simple book about cats designed for infants and up. Like all of the Baby Einstein books, the illustrations are a combination of drawings, photographs, and famous works of art. Most babies and toddlers are fascinated by cats--especially those from families with a pet cat--and this book is likely to capture their imagination while also teaching some basic facts (eg, a baby cat is called a kitten). Plus, the extra-small size makes it conveniently portable for car, diaper bag, or wherever. A nice little gift for the little one in your life!	2003-09-15
US	52571463	RSWPGM215MJSS	078680839X	280081020	Baby Einstein: Dogs	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Another winner from Baby Einstein	This is a short, simple book about dogs designed for infants and up.  Like all of the Baby Einstein books, the illustrations are a combination of drawings, photographs, and famous works of art.  Most babies and toddlers are fascinated by dogs, and this book is likely to capture their imagination while also teaching some basic facts (eg, a baby dog is called a puppy).  Plus, the extra-small size makes it conveniently portable for car, diaper bag, or wherever.  A nice little gift for the little one in your life!	2003-09-15
US	52571463	R1GFEUSSISVOXP	031230630X	930366581	A Hole in the Heart: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful story of a woman struggling with loss and life	In some ways, this book reminded me of &quot;The Dive from Clausen's Pier&quot;:  both books feature a female protagonist struggling to find herself after her relationship comes to a tragic end.  When I read the former, however, I never connected with the main character, Carrie, who I couldn't help but to consider pathetic.  The main character of this book, Bean, certainly has aspects of her life that could also be considered pathetic, but somehow, I related more easily to her behavior (eg, lying in bed eating Ben &amp; Jerry's when her husband was away) than I could to the more amorphous actions of Carrie.  Bean comes across as extremely real, from her ambivalence toward the various people in her life to her earnest search for direction and meaning.  Here is a lost soul who you really root for; you want to see Bean triumph in the end.  While the conclusion of the book isn't exactly uplifting--the author resists the ever-present temptation to tie everything up neatly--as you come to the end of Bean's story, you can easily imagine that she is on the path to a brighter future.  A well-written, wonderful detailed, and refreshingly original work.	2003-09-12
US	52571463	R3L0LF2ZF2SAHN	0440223571	426185457	This Year It Will Be Different, and other stories	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Tales of less-than-perfect Christmases	In her novels, Binchy frequently addresses some of the more tragic aspects of life with humor and grace, and she does the same in this collection of stories.  Each tale takes place at Christmastime, but there is little sentitmentality here.  Instead, Binchy offers us a peek into the more trying aspects of the holidays:  the teenager who captures all of her family's flaws on film, the young woman who realizes that her affair with a married man isn't quite as wonderful as she had been telling herself, the happily married woman who struggles with her rebellious stepdaughter, the wife and mother who is tired of having the entire responsibility for the holidays fall on her shoulders, the group of crotched-y nursing residents who have no families to go to on Christmas day, etc.  Although these are not exactly &quot;feel-good&quot; stories, many incorporate an aspect of triumph.  This book is likely to be appreciated by anyone who has ever strived for the &quot;perfect&quot; Christmas and has fallen short.	2003-09-12
US	52571463	R37XOPN99MHJ9K	0451180232	825628928	Nightmares and Dreamscapes	Books	4	47	48	N	N	King's stories provide both chills and grins	This collection of stories is typical King--you may not like every single one, but you're sure to find at least one that scares you and one that makes you laugh.  My favorite was &quot;Dolan's Cadillac,&quot; a chilling tale of painstakingly-plotted revenge.  Also intriguing is &quot;The 10 O'Clock People,&quot; a must-read for every smoker who has cut back but who just can't seem to quit completely.  In &quot;Sorry, Right Number,&quot; King tries something new by writing the story in screenplay fashion; the gimmick doesn't necessarily add anything, but the plot itself is engaging nonetheless.  On the scary side, l found &quot;Night Flier&quot; to be extremely creepy--the final scene will definitely make you want to sleep with the lights on!--and for a more light-hearted offering, there's &quot;Clattery Teeth.&quot;  Each story here is likely to have its fans; you'll have to read them all to find your own favorite.	2003-09-11
US	52571463	R2QQF0JCWXG5Q7	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Four terrific tales from a master storyteller.	If you've never read Stephen King before, this book is an excellent place to start, as it will show you that King is much more than just a \\"horror\\" writer.  In this book, King has crafted four novellas which provide countless insights into various aspects of life and the human condition.  Three of the four stories have been made into movies--you may have seen them and never known they were based on King.<br />The first novella in the book, \\"Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,\\" is clearly the best (it also produced the best movie, The Shawshank Redemption).  The premise is simple--a wrongly accused man is sentenced to life imprisonment--but the story itself is rich and enveloping.  To say that this engaging, intricately woven tale is heartwarming is somewhat trite, yet the theme of the story, \\"hope springs eternal,\\" shines through like a beacon.  <br />Also compelling are \\"The Body\\" (made into the movie Stand by Me) and \\"Apt Pupil.\\"  Both are coming of age stories which center around young teenage characters, yet the first focuses on triumph, the second on tragedy.  The final story, \\"The Breathing Method,\\" was my least favorite, but it fits with the redemption theme that is interlaced throughout the book; plus, fans of King's forays into horror will get a taste of the macabre here.  Whatever your specific preference, you are sure to find a favorite tale in this book.	2003-09-11
US	52571463	RPC69EY2B1EGO	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	King's classic short story collection is still the best	Night shift is a classic collection of horror tales.  There's something for everyone here, as the stories range from chilling (&quot;Sometimes They Come Back,&quot; &quot;I Am the Doorway&quot;) to gory (&quot;The Mangler,&quot; &quot;Gray Matter&quot;) to a mix of laughter and horror (&quot;The Lawnmower Man,&quot; &quot;Battleground&quot;).  My favorites are the longer stories in which King takes the time to develop the characters, making their usually tragic endings all the more horrible.  For example, &quot;Strawberry Spring&quot; is the story of terrible, seemingly random killings that plague a college campus as told from the perspective of a young male who is watching the events unfold around him with increasing horror, and in &quot;I Know What You Need,&quot; King focuses on the destructive nature of obsessive love.  Stories such as &quot;Quitters Inc.&quot; and &quot;The Ledge&quot; are gripping--albeit unrealistic--page-turners.  All-in-all, you're sure to find a favorite amongst these stories from master storyteller King.	2003-09-11
US	52571463	R3CV60WPPJW2VO	0743411358	204129885	True to Form: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Enjoyable coming of age novel; great young adult reading	True to Form continues the story of Katie Nash, the young, motherless girl who we first met in Durable Goods.  Katie is now 13, and her life appears to have stabalized:  her father has remarried a sweet stepmother, she has finally gotten used to her new town, and she is excited about the start of summer vacation.  Of course problems still occur--the two summer jobs arranged by her father don't fit her &quot;dream job&quot; description, she desperately wants to fit in with the popular crowd, etc.--but at this point, Katie's difficulties seem to be more of the &quot;normal&quot; growing up variety as opposed to the more challenging obstacles she faced in Berg's earlier novels.  Although I enjoyed reading about Katie's development into a more poised, thoughtful young woman, I found Berg's treatment of Katie to be very reminiscent of Judy Blume, and thus  I think that Katie's story would be most appealing to young adult readers.	2003-09-04
US	52571463	R18ZKCN6ULCG1R	0060929979	293940120	Inventing the Abbots and Other Stories	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Short stories that focus on the darker side of love	With her stories of infidelity, divorce, and sexual harassment/assault, author Sue Miller delves into the darker side of love and relationships.  In the title story of this book, she describes the desperate attempts of a boy from \\"the wrong side of the tracks\\" to reinvent himself as part of a local wealthy family, the Abbotts.  He dates the three Abbott daughters in turn, with each relationship ending in a bigger disaster than the last one.  (Fans of the movie, take note:  this is NOT a love story, and the role of the younger brother--Joaquim Phoenix in the movie--is little more than that of the story's narrator here.)  The next two stories, \\"Tyler and Brina,\\" and \\"Appropriate Affect,\\" address both the obvious and the more hidden costs of infidelity.  Explicit photographs play a role in \\"Slides\\" and \\"Travel,\\" while the stories \\"What Ernest Says,\\" \\"Calling,\\" and \\"The Birds and the Bees\\" cover even darker sexual subjects.  The stories, while engrossing, are somewhat unpolished:  the first story, \\"Inventing the Abbotts,\\" could have easily been a novel on its own, and the final story, \\"The Quality of Life,\\" seems to end abruptly and awkwardly.  At 180 pages, however, this book is a quick read, and the reader is unlikely to feel that his or her time has been wasted.	2003-08-28
US	52571463	R1J9PR213E4J2A	060980670X	159931413	Beautiful Brows: The Ultimate Guide to Styling, Shaping, and Maintaining Your Eyebrows	Books	3	76	81	N	Y	Great tips but unappealing format	This little book definitely offers some excellent tips for learning how to groom your brows.  It begins by reviewing five basic brow shapes and then discussing how to choose the best brow for your own face shape and features.  The teaching part of the book describes how to shape and color your brows, reviews various hair removal techniques, and provides guidelines for using the most popular shaping methods.  The book ends with a list of famous brows--eg, Marilyn Monroe, Audrey Hepburn, Madonna--and how to acheive them.<br />Despite the good information contained therein, I found the style and format of this book to be unappealling; for me, this detracted from the book's utility.  I was surprised to learn that the book was published in 2000, as it has a very dated look and feel to it.  When pictures are used (black and white only), the very overdone and made-up appearance of the women is reminiscent of the 1980s, and the quality of the photos is poor.  Most of the illustrations are in the form of simple line drawings; they were easy to understand but not at all enjoyable to use.  If you are looking for some basic guidelines on brow grooming, this book is likely to be helpful, but keep in mind that the book is just that--basic.	2003-08-27
US	52571463	R3IERNC3TAE6YX	0385318782	405219559	Talk Before Sleep	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A story of women's friendships in the shadow of cancer	As the book opens, Ann prepares to leave for the home of her best friend, Ruth, who has breast cancer.  By the time the book begins, Ruth has already been through treatment and there is nothing more that the doctors can do for her, but through flashbacks, we discover not only the story of Ruth's diagnosis but also the development of Ann and Ruth's amazing friendship.  The story is told from Ann's perspective, but the book also features several of Ruth's other friends, which gives the reader a window into how a group of diverse women might react to a friend's illness:  Ann, confused by unfailingly loyal and supportive; LD., the tough one who refuses to believe that Ruth's situation is hopeless; Sarah, the practical one who takes flack from the others; and Helen, Ruth's childhood friend.  The characters are very real, and the various aspects of the story ring true, from Ruth's confusion over her marriage to the reactions of Ann's school-age daughter.  An enjoyable book about love, loss, and--most importantly--women's friendships.	2003-08-21
US	52571463	R292EOFI3WYX41	0764112589	65482051	The New Food Lover's Companion	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Must have product for any kitchen!	This book is an excellent resource to have on hand in the kitchen.  It is arranged in an encyclopedia-like format, so you can easily search for virtually any culinary term.  Not sure what it means to butterfly a lamb?  Look it up for a definition and instructions.  Never heard of the spice coriander?  Get more information and usages.  Want to know more about Riesling wine?  Check out the detailed descriptoin.  I frequently reach for this book when I come across unfamiliar terms in recipes, but there's so much great information, sometimes I just like to browse through!  Another thing about this book that I've found really handy is the appendices, which are extensive.  Of course, there are the classic measurement and substitutions lists (both of which are much more detailed than you'll find anywhere else), but there is also information on things like cuts of meat from various animals, which spices work well with which foods, etc.  I especially like the section on food exchanges--ie, how many apples are in a cup?  how many lemons does it take for 1 tablespoon lemon juice?--a great feature in planning how much to buy for recipes.  This is an excellent book that will be used over and over by beginning and more advanced cooks alike.	2003-08-21
US	52571463	R2MU0Q4HYUVCZP	078580613X	890957442	Encyclopedia of Cooking Techniques	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent cooking reference book	This is a great reference book that is appropriate for beginners and more advanced cooks alike.  It is broken up into basic food catergories such as &quot;Meats,&quot; &quot;Fish and Seafood,&quot; &quot;Eggs and Poultry,&quot; &quot;Fruits and Chocolate,&quot; etc.  Each section includes a wealth of information as well as basic recipes.  For example, under the chaper on fish, you will find information on how to scale and bone a fish, descriptions of the various methods for cooking a fish, a detailed list of of many different types of fish, and more; plus, there are recipes to illustrate each instruction, description, or list.  Most chapters include step-by-step instructions on fundamental technique--ie, &quot;How to make a butter cake,&quot; and then include both a basic recipe plus various modifications that can be made to the original.  Whenever I find myself unsure about how to do something--eg, how long to boil an egg for hard-boiled--I look it up, and this book invariably has the answer.  An excellent resource for all kitchens.	2003-08-21
US	52571463	R32IFWAB9U4F0E	0440984696	241844408	Tiger Eyes	Books	5	16	17	N	N	One of my high school favorites	15-year old Davey has just experienced the tragic loss of her beloved father via a robbery shooting.  Her mother, unable to cope alone, accepts an offer of help from her sister-in-law, and thus Davey moves with her mother and younger brother from their home in Atlantic City to live with an aunt and uncle who are practically strangers to them in New Mexico.  While there, Davey encounters unfamiliar rules, unexpected complications (eg, a friend's drinking problem), and some unlikely sources of support.  As her mother deteriorates, Davey learns to cope with her own grief while at the same time negotiating the usual trials of being a high school student.  A wonderful, moving book that would be especially appropriate for teens who have experienced a loss in their own lives.	2003-08-19
US	52571463	R1P3NFHOIGX33X	0451203070	507507459	Tending Roses (Tending Roses Series, Book 1)	Books	2	27	38	N	N	Too sentimental for my tastes	I guess I'm one of the few reviewers who didn't respond to the sentimentality of this book.  Although I am usually the sentimental type, I thought that the message of this book--literally, that family is the most important thing in life, and metaphorically, that you must stop to smell the roses--was so obvious that it repeatedly hit you over the head.  I did not find the main character, Kate, to be likeable; it was difficult to have sympathy for her money problems once it was revealed that she and her husband lived in a nice condo, belonged to a country club, and even owned a boat!  Also, I was particularly frustrated by the way Kate excuses both her husband's and grandmother's behavior, especially given that both of these characters engage in offensive behavior at times.  Furthermore, the sudden transformation of Kate's husband, Ben, did not ring true to me.  The book's more real characters include Kate's father, Jack, and her sister, Karen, but they both have relatively minor roles in the story.  Although some parts of this book were engaging, such as the vignette's from Grandma Rose's childhood, I just found the overall sappiness to detract from what might have been a more genuine and moving story.	2003-08-19
US	52571463	RI1K0JXB96HG6	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another entertaining thriller from Dean Koontz	Dean Koontz's latest book centers around three main characters:  Fric, the 10-year old son of the world's most famous actor (aka &quot;The Face&quot;); Ethan, ex-cop who is now the famous actor's chief of security and who is still grieving for his wife, now 5 years gone; and Corky, the psychopath with an unlikely name.  The story begins with Ethan puzzling over enigmatic but clearly threatening gifts which have been sent to his employer.  As part of his efforts to protect the actor, Ethan struggles to discover what these mysterious clues might mean, and while doing so, he encounters a series of bizarre incidents that at first seem entirely unrelated to his original purpose.  Meanwhile, Fric is caught up in his own fantastical events, and Corky prepares to execute a yet-unknown sinister plan; as might be expected, exactly how the paths of these three characters are interconnected becomes clear as the story unfolds.<br />I feel that this is one of Koontz's better efforts.  Like most of his books, this story contains a supernatural component.  In some of his past works, however, Koontz has seemed to fall back on the supernatural as convenient plot device (eg, &quot;Dragon Tears&quot;), but here, the supernatural aspect enhances rather than justifies the plot.  The book's bad guy, Corky, is reminiscent of other Koontz villains in that his ordinary appearance masks a black soul (think &quot;Intensity&quot;), yet this novel remains distinct.  On the other hand, the one major flaw I found with this book is common to some of Koontz's prior works:  although Koontz does an excellent job of slowly building up suspense throughout the entire story, the ending, while somewhat predictable by necessisty (ie, the good guys win), develops so quickly that the effect is anti-climatic.  Overall, however, this is an engaging thriller that can be rated amongst Koontz's best.	2003-08-18
US	52571463	R30E76XL6T54N9	0316286443	580713451	Face Forward	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Best of Aucoin's books.	In preparation for doing my own makeup on my wedding day, I sought out various resources, which led me to Kevyn Aucoin's books.  While not a self-help manual per se, this book shows the amazing transformations that can come as a result of makeup alone.  I found it very useful for providing an overview of different techniques--for example, the effects of combining light/dark mouth with light/dark eyes; the use of neutral versus more dramatic colors; options for shaping brows, eyes, and lips; etc.  While most of us will never come anywhere near Kevyn's skill level, this book provides at least a starting point for incorporating some professional tips into your own makeup routine.	2003-08-14
US	52571463	R304CDLOG54ETA	1401300316	342799200	The Center of Everything	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Coming of age story set in America's heartland.	In the tradition of White Oleander, this novel follows the life of a young girl from an unstable family background who experiences life events that are at times horrific but who triumphs nonetheless.  This story, set in the 1980s, details the life of Evelyn Bucknow from her turbulent elementary school years as a precocious child with limited resources to her time as a confused high school student struggling to understand why bad things happen, and finally, to her more hopeful young adulthood as she is about to enter college.  Along the way, we meet Tina, her single, unemployed mother, who may not be smart in relationships but who displays unending affection for her children as well as tireless devotion to Evelyn's disabled younger brother; Eileen, Evelyn's fundamentalist Christian grandmother who loves her dearly despite the estrangement between Tina and her own father; Travis, the troubled neighbor boy who becomes the object of Evelyn's affection and who shares her desire to go to college; Deena, Evelyn's best friend who is loyal and caring but who shows little interest in school or her future; and Traci, Evelyn's arch-rival in school who ulitimately causes Evelyn to question whether or not she is a &quot;bad&quot; person.  A thoroughly engaging debut novel.	2003-08-13
US	52571463	R2J8GOETA68AB7	0345443500	501788777	Memoirs of Pontius Pilate: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An interesting interpretation from a different viewpoint.	This author has come up with a unique concept by novelizing the life of the historical Christ and then telling the story from the point of view of a relatively minor character, Pontius Pilate.  As the title suggests, the novel is written in the form of memoirs as Pilate nears the end of his life.  Pilate tries to come to some resolution of his own involvement in Jesus's death by reviewing Jesus's life, beginning with the unusual circumstances of his birth and continuing to the genesis of Christianity after his death.  The author utilizes plain, accessible language to tell a story which includes a surprising amount of humor.  You may not feel sorry for Pilate by the end, but you should at least wonder if perhaps there is more to the story of Jesus than we will ever know.  An engaging, thought-provoking book.	2003-08-10
US	52571463	RSS369FE16H23	0316234753	726576665	Ed Emberley's Drawing Book of Animals	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Wonderful, classic children's instruction book.	As a kid, I loved to draw, and I loved this book!  The author provides simple, step-by-step pictorial guidelines easy enough for young children to follow:  if they can read the instructions, they can draw the animals in the book.  At each step, there is a basic instruction such as  \\"make a green triangle\\" or \\"add two squiggly lines.\\"  The instructions are accompanied by both a drawing of whatever it is to be added and a drawing of the animal-in-progress as a whole.  Not only is this book fun for children, it's great for book reports and other school projects.  Even adults will appreciate the ease at which this book helps them to produce realistic-looking animals while also enjoying the author's humorous style.  This favorite book of childhood has become a cherished adult possession.	2003-07-29
US	52571463	R3D48ZUTW3XWQU	0385141114	284069174	My Enemy the Queen	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating historical novel covers the life of Elizabeth I.	This is a captivating novel that follows the life of Elizabeth I from her innocent girlhood to her eventual death as a never-married queen.  The story is solidly based on actual events and people, from the book's narrator, Lettice, to the Queen's suitors, Robert Dudley and Robert Devereaux.  The story is told from the point of view of Lettice, a cousin of the Queen's on the Boleyn side who is a rival for Robert Dudley's (Earl of Leicester) affections and who eventually becomes his wife.  Lettice's son from her first marriage, Robert Devereaux (Earl of Essex), grows up to become himself a favorite of the Queen's, a situation not without complications.  With some poetic license, the engaging stories of these characters/historial figures are set against the compelling backdrop of Elizabethean England; a wonderful read.	2003-07-29
US	52571463	R2XFWSCJD0V88T	1878348302	424775177	Reef Fish Identification: Florida, Caribbean, Bahamas	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Excelling book for identifying all types of tropical fish	After we came back from our honeymoon, I wanted to buy my husband a book to help identify the various fish we encountered on our trip, and this book turned out to be perfect.  First of all, the fish are broken down into various classifications, and each category is clearly labelled.  There are wonderfully clear, glossy pictures of each individual fish combined with a detailed description which includes information such as size, colors, appearance of immature, habitat, and reaction to divers.  An ideal book for serious research or just for fun.	2003-07-18
US	52571463	RK3VRM8FNCX9P	1878348310	876908303	Reef Creature Identification: Florida, Caribbean, Bahamas	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Great book for identifying all types of sea creatures!	After we came back from our honeymoon, I wanted to buy my husband a book to help identify the various sea creatures we encountered on our trip, and this book turned out to be perfect.  First of all, the animals are broken down into various categories such as &quot;crabs,&quot; &quot;squid,&quot; etc., and each classification is clearly labelled.  There are wonderfully clear, glossy pictures of each individual creature combined with a detailed description which includes information such as size, colors, appearance of immature, habitat, and reaction to divers.  An ideal book for serious research or just for fun.	2003-07-18
US	52571463	RLRWCNB14L7SK	0758203330	347465636	Thoughts While Having Sex	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A fun read but with serious undertones	On the surface, this novel initially appears to be a typical \\"chick lit\\" type story in the style of Bridget Jones' Diary and other such books in this genre:  a female main character (Jennifer) struggles with her career, her friends, and her love life.  Although this book IS lighthearted and funny, it also deals with serious emotions, particularly as related to the past suicide of Jennifer's sister.  The author handles this well, staying true to the emotions that Jennifer is feeling without turning the story into a drama that is consumed by this tragedy.  The conclusion is satisfying is also more satisfying than in your average romantic fiction:  because the final events occur several years after the main action of the book, the changes in Jennifer are much more believable (ie, given the time frame).  All in all, this was a very enjoyable, thoughtful book, and I hope to read future works by this author.	2003-06-30
US	52571463	RWMCJK0SIX13L	0806941758	851486462	The Little Giant Encyclopedia of Wedding Toasts	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A nice little book to get you started on ideas for a toast	This is a book of various sayings, quotes, and traditional brief toasts to get you started on writing your own.  It is organized by category and includes chapters such as by the best man, by the father of the bride, the bride to the groom, the groom to the bride, etc.  I think it is best used as a guide to give you ideas about what to say rather than as a resource for an entire speech.	2003-06-30
US	52571463	R4B2ZBQ2862AM	1563054434	784477492	Birthday Monsters! (Boynton on Board)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A great children's book from as early as age 1!	I bought this book for my neice's first birthday, and she loves it!  The pictures are wonderful, and the text is written in Boynton's usual melodic style--my neice certainly seemed to respond to the sound of others reading the words to her.  The story describes five birthday monsters arriving and taking over on \\"your\\" birthday; although the monsters themselves aren't scary, young children who can comprehend the story might become upset by certain scenes (eg, the monsters eat all \\"your\\" cake!)--but of course, there is a happy ending.  An engaging, fun story for young children.	2003-04-11
US	52571463	R200CYEPGDYPV3	1563521415	233582026	The Thank You Book: Hundreds of Clever, Meaningful, and Purposeful Ways to Say Thank You	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A good book addressing a wide array of thank you situations.	I thought that this book might be useful in helping me write my thank you notes for my wedding.  While the book did contain some information relevant to this area, it actually covers much more than just saying thank you for gifts.  In addition to addressing how to say thank you for various occasions, the author offers suggestions for all-purpose thank-yous such as thanking someone for being your friend, thanking hosts for dinner, business thank yous, etc.  She provides examples of different types and styles of wording to use--eg, comparing the person to jewels--as well as gives ideas for more creative expressions of thanks, such as using food items.  Finally, she discusses how to thank specific people, including family, romantic partners, and teachers, and there is even a section on &quot;kid-sized thanks.&quot;  If you are looking for an all-purpose book to help you show appreciation to the important people in your life, this book is excellent, but it fares less well in providing specific advice for writing gift thank you notes.	2003-03-18
US	52571463	R1OFJVQ4IFB8T8	1556522002	837480298	The Bride's Thank You Guide: Thank-You Writing Made Easy	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A mix of helpful and outdated information.	This slim 96 page volume offers some helpful advice but is coupled with unnecessary and outdated information.  In the first 30 pages, the author addresses basic information such as who should write thank you notes, when they should be sent, and what kind of stationary to use.  I'm assuming that most of today's brides would already have this knowledge, but for someone looking for very elementary assitance, this section could be useful.  I found the fourth chapter, &quot;General Outline,&quot; to be the most practical aspect of the book.  In this chapter, the author provides a basic outline for all thank you notes and gives specific examples for each component; particularly helpful were the list of adjectives as well as the list of ways to describe how the gift will be used.  Following this, the author answers some additional questions (eg, don't tell the giver when you receive a damaged gift), and then finally, the remainder of the book contains sample letters which are broken down into specific categories (monetary gift, thank yous to specific wedding participants, unusual gifts, etc.).  Although somewhat repetitive, the letters did offer some additional useful ideas about writing notes.  Overall, this book is a bit uneven in its utility, but given its low price, it would probably be a worthwhile investment for most brides.	2003-03-18
US	52571463	R2KI5U9BOW0J1X	096687451X	937356626	A Wedding Ceremony To Remember: Perfect Words for the Perfect Wedding	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Unique approach to planning ceremony from start to finish.	In writing my own wedding ceremony, I've borrowed countless books from the library and have done extensive internet research. Whereas many of the available resources focus solely on words used for the vows, readings, and ring exchange, this workbook covers the entire ceremony from start to finish, including the sometimes overlooked parts of the ceremony such as welcome and introduction, declaration of intent/consent, the meaning of the rings, and wedding blessings. The author provides entire ceremony scripts for seven different types of situations: both traditional and contemporary religious ceremonies, a civil ceremony, a \\"short and sweet\\" service, and finally, ceremonies for both second marriages and marriages with children involved. If you would prefer to create your own ceremony by mixing and matching, there are chapters on readings, wedding vows, ring exchange vows, and prayers and blessings; another chapter offers descriptions of several wedding traditions as well as other special touches to make your wedding unique.<br />One note of caution about this book: the author states that he has written this book using \\"the best of the best\\" words for weddings, but this means that the selection of choices is somewhat limited. Unlike some other ceremony planning books (such as The Knot Guide to Vows), you will not find page after page of suggestions for readings, vows, etc. In addition, the book does not address the topic of music, and it fails to include explanations of cultural traditions such as breaking the glass and jumping the broom. Despite these cautions, however, this is a useful book, particularly for those just beginning to determine the format for their wedding.	2003-02-28
US	52571463	R3B7N5AJVQOKGU	1558509801	939299076	With These Words...I Thee Wed: Contemporary Wedding Vows for Today's Couples	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Good information, but poor organization makes it hard to use	This book is specifically for couples wanting to write their wedding vows, whether by borrowing the words of others or using their own.  There are separate chapters for secular versus religious vows, and there are also shorter chapters addressing special topics/situations such as uniting as individuals and special settings.  Finally, the author offers a questionnaire to guide you in writing your own vows from scratch.<br />The suggestions in this book are good, as there are many beautiful and uniquely worded statements.  However, the chapters themselves offer absolutely no organization, making it hard to determine exactly how the words should be used.  For example, it is sometimes unclear where one segment ends and the next begins--ie, whether certain sections are designed to be used together or separately.  Furthermore, there are no guidelines as to whether the couple should repeat the vows after the officiant, repeat them together, say them in exchange, etc.  A final criticism is that the last two sections of the book--a personalized record of your wedding and an index of first lines--are virtual useless, as couples are unlikely to use this book as a keepsake and the index would only be helpful if you already knew the words you wanted.<br />One final note:  if you are looking for a book to help you write you entire wedding ceremony from start to finish, this book is definitely not for you.  It addresses vows only and does not contain suggestions for other ceremony elements such as the readings and the ring exchange.  However, if you simply want some ideas of how to write your vows and/or are considering writing your own, you may find this book to be helpful.	2003-02-28
US	52571463	R14492L52WV8FZ	0767902483	619241029	The Knot Guide to Wedding Vows and Traditions: Readings, Rituals, Music, Dances, and Toasts	Books	4	24	26	N	N	A good resource if you don't know where to start.	Although much of the information contained in this book is available through other sources--The Knot's own web site, for example--it is likely to be useful for someone in the beginning stages of planning their wedding and reception.  In particular, there are plenty of examples of vows from various religious backgrounds as well as nice descriptions of various ethnic traditions (eg, the Afrocentric &quot;Jumping the Broom&quot;).  There are a lot of ideas for those who wish to take a more non-traditional approach as well, as the book makes suggestions for incorporating songs, poetry, and the like into your celebration.  The music section breaks the songs down into categories (eg, &quot;first dance,&quot; &quot;parents dances&quot;) and then further subdivides the categories based on type of music; the section on speeches and toasts is similarly divided based on who is doing the toast.  One note of caution:  there is less content in the book than its large size would suggest, as a significant number of pages are taken up by examples (eg, page after page of song titles) as well as a resource and bibliography list, both of which I viewed as unnecessary.  However, if what you are looking for is plenty of examples so that you can make preliminary decisions about your wedding day, this book would work well.	2003-02-24
US	52571463	R3HOMTWKD1ND04	0060195592	647697969	Legendary Brides: From the Most Romantic Weddings Ever, Inspired Ideas for Today's Brides	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A beautiful book about beautiful weddings.	Other reviewers have said that this book has serious problems given that some of the weddings featured ended in divorce or other tragedy.  While it's true that one can't help but to think about those things while reading this book, the book is about WEDDINGS, not marriages, and as such, I found it to be beautiful.  The book features brides throughout the ages, starting with Queen Victoria and moving on to Carolyn Bessette Kennedy.  The author describes the overwhelming love felt by each of these brides at the time of their marriages and highlights the most romantic details of their weddings.  In addition, she offers suggestions (under the heading &quot;Something Borrowed&quot;) on how to adapt some of the wedding traditions used by these brides in order to incorporate them into a modern wedding.  Overall, this book is gorgeous to look at, and while some of the stories had sad endings, the book itself is joyous.	2003-02-19
US	52571463	R1NQYUZ3UFRRZP	0688162568	130388167	Vera Wang On Weddings	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A beautiful coffee-table style book with some helpful info.	As other reviewers have said, this is a gorgeous book.  It's very oversized--larger even than most coffee-table style books--and has lovely pictures throughout which cover every aspect of wedding celebrations.  Included, of course, are many samples of Wang's own work as a bridal gown designer as well as photos from her own wedding.  As a wedding planner, however, this book is less useful.  Although Wang does include her own commentary, some of which is interesting and helpful, there really isn't enough information for the book to be used as comprehensive planner.  Furthermore, the organization of the book is somewhat confusing, as it does not follow a typical wedding planning chronology.  Despite these issues, brides-to-be and others are likelyto enjoy this book, if only to &quot;look at the pictures.&quot;	2003-02-13
US	52571463	RXZIK1ZFHJ48S	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A fun, light read, especially for brides-to-be.	This book is written in a diary style a la Bridget Jones. Amy Thomas, the main character, is \\"not the marrying type,\\" but when she unexpectedly becomes engaged, she finds herself transforming into a \\"mad bride.\\" Although Amy has sworn that she would never act like other brides-to-be she has known, bit by bit, she finds herself obsessing about her own wedding, including finding the perfect shoes. Although some of her dilemmas are over-the-top, those of us who are currently engaged can very easily relate, and the book is funny enough to be enjoyed by singles and already-marrieds as well.	2003-02-05
US	52571463	R1SM47E95YV5CI	078688262X	88704574	What No One Tells the Bride: Surviving the Wedding, Sex After the Honeymoon, Second Thoughts, Wedding Cake Freezer Burn, Becoming Your Mother, Screaming about Money, Screaming about In-Laws, etc.	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A nice book for normalizing the fears of the average bride.	As a psychologist, I know that one of the most important things you can do for a client is to normalize their feelings by letting them know they are not alone, that others feel the same way they do.  Marg does an excellent job of doing this for both brides-to-be and newlywed brides.  She points out that most brides are afraid to talk about any negative feelings they might have during this time for fear that this will call their marriage into question (and in fact, non-married friends often do have these reactions). Marg emphasizes that it is completely normal to feel this way, and, perhaps more importantly, that other brides have felt the same way and have gotten through it.  Much of what she says is common sense--and may not apply to those who have been living together before marriage like myself--but the information is still helpful as well as interesting and enjoyable to read.	2003-01-25
US	52571463	R2EH631Z178POZ	014200040X	105945428	Too Close to the Falls: A Memoir	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A view of a quaint era from the viewpoint of a unique child.	I don't read much non-fiction, but I received this book as a gift and thoroughly enjoyed it. The author describes her unconvential childhood growing up near Niagara Falls, NY. Today, Gildiner would probably be diagnosed with attention deficit disorder, but back then, she was put to work in her father's drugstore at age four to burn off some of her \\"excess eneregy\\"--her doctor's orders!  As Gildiner describes her experiences from pre-school through her teen years, she talks in the voice of the child she was then rather than the adult she is now.  Her style is extremely effective in transporting the reader into her past life, a life that seems to have been both bewildering and magnificent at the same time.  There is something for everyone here:  television, racial conflicts, religious questioning, teen sexuality, Hollywood, and much more in this unique view of the \\"Leave it to Beaver\\" era.	2003-01-25
US	52571463	R358SCHSO4ISI2	0066212693	111299110	Good Girls Gone Bad	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good read that changes tone over the course of the story.	Good Girls Gone Bad starts off sounding like many of the other single women books out there--seven single women, aged 35 to 45, attend a therapy group together to work on improving their disasterous relationship histories.  The main character, Janey, is obsessed with Tobias, a guy who slept with her while engaged to another woman; however, she carefully rationalizes her behavior to convince herself that she is not stalking him.  As Janey and the other women in the group begin to bond, they dub themselves the \\"... posse\\" and vow to take revenge on Tobias, but as you might expect, their plan goes horribly awry.  At this point, the book becomes more serious, as Janey questions her bond with her friends, delves into her childhood, and finally faces the truth about her mother.  While the story seemed predictable early on, several unexpected revealations help set this book apart from its similar peers.  A great read for someone who enjoys a fun story about women but with a little more depth.	2002-12-31
US	52571463	R2VKI38T9N9EGD	0345452534	521290095	The Murder Book	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A once-strong series is becoming weak.	Being a psychologist myself, I was excited to discover the Alex Delaware series many years ago.  I enjoyed reading many of the earlier books--even those that I read out of order--and eventually, I was reading the new books as soon as they were published.  Unfortunately, I've found the last several offerings in the Delaware series to be unsatisfying, and The Murder Book only served to highlight my disappointment.<br />The novel begins with Alex and his long-time (perhaps long-suffering) girlfriend Robin.  At the end of the last novel, there seemed to be cause for optimism about their relationship, but that quickly turns around at the start of the new book.  Robin has always been a mariginal, one-dimensional character at best, and here, she all but disappears.  What we're left with is Alex and Milo working on a new case--actually, an old case of Milo's left unsolved from years before.  In earlier books, the chain of events made sense; the reader was able to understand the origins of Alex's conjectures and draw similar conclusions, perhaps even identifying the murderer(s) for themselves before reading the ending (which I was able to do myself at least once).  In The Murder Book, however, the solution to the mystery involves such far-fetched, convoluted hypothoses that even Columbo wouldn't have been able to solve this one.  Kellerman's writing style is still enjoyable, but his plots are becoming a little too thin for my liking.	2002-12-17
US	52571463	R3EP598GE6KXTI	0393702979	785115196	A Guide to Possibility Land: Fifty-One Methods for Doing Brief, Respectful Therapy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great resource to bring a fresh perspective to your work!	I'm a psychologist practicing in a college counseling center, and I love this book!  This slim, easy-to-read volume contains a plethora of strategies which encourage you to view client problems from a new, solutions-oriented perspective.  Each strategy is presented in a simple, one-page description that includes both a rationale for the technique as well as specific examples of how to use the technique with clients.  The strategies are divided into five main categories:  Carl Rogers with a Twist, Change the Viewing, Map Problem and Goals, Connect with Internal and External Resources, and Change the Doing.  The book is laced with humor--e.g., goofy drawings and therapist lightbulb jokes at the end--and the techniques themselves frequently illustrate how to draw humor into the therapeutic process.  At times, O'Hanlon seems to take this a bit too far, with the risk being that his methods will appear invalidating to the client, but I believe that his strategies can be adapted so that this is not the case.  Furthermore, the tools offered in this book are compatible with all theoretical orientations and presenting problems.  This is an excellent book for helping all therapists stay fresh and engaged in their work, and it is the one therapy handbook that I always turn to when I'm feeling stuck with a client.	2002-11-08
US	52571463	R2CEZPS4VR0YAC	0375706429	312828157	Otherwise Engaged: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fun book for brides-to-be.	Since my fianc&eacute; has taken to calling me &quot;bridezilla,&quot; I thought I would check out this light-hearted novel.  The first few pages had me laughing out loud, and I finished the entire short book (204 pp.) by the next day.  The chapters are a month-by-month countdown to the wedding of the main charachter, Eve.  When she gets engaged, Eve feels triumphant, especially given her age (she is 36 and has never been married; I'm 34 and in the same boat).  Soon, however, she becomes overwhelmed by the entire wedding planning process as well as the &quot;rest of my life&quot; implication of marriage; she starts seeing a therapist and taking Valium (the way she saves each precious Valium for the especially bad moments of her life is hilarious).  The story throws in a few unexpected twists involving Eve's assorted group of friends, but you can probably guess the ending.  Overall, I found this to be a fun, amusing book, and I would highly recommended it as a great tension reliever for other brides-to-be.	2002-10-28
US	52571463	R32IJCLYW27P6L	1889392081	287513911	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	4	119	124	N	N	Great for overall planning, not just saving money.	I just got engaged a few months ago, and another bride-to-be recommended this book.  I've already found it to be extremely helpful in my planning, as the book thoroughly reviews your options for various aspects of the wedding such as bride/bridesmaids dresses, invitations, photography, etc.  I particularly liked the lists of suggested questions for vendors--when I emailed one photographer with some of the questions in the book, he wrote back and said &quot;you couldn't have asked better questions if I had given them to you myself!&quot;  I've actually found the book to be less helpful in the area of saving money.  This might be partly due to the fact that we're having a pretty small wedding--we only expect about 40 guests to attend, and we're not having a bridal party.  Another minor negative is that when I tried some of the websites in the book, the URLs were no longer valid; although they talked about use of the internet in planning quite a bit, I wish they had addressed this area even more, especially use of email to get information from potential vendors.  Overall, however, this is a great book that you definitely will use frequently in your planning--I find myself referring to my copy again and again.	2002-10-25
US	52571463	RUOUQBYRDNWWU	0553109847	838101255	Neurotica	Books	2	0	1	N	N	I just couldn't get into this one.	I tend to enjoy British novels--Bridget Jones' Diary, High Fidelity, Jemima J, etc.--but I just couldn't get into this one.  I think the main reason for this is that I found the characters to be unlikable and too over the top; I just never really related to Anna and Dan, both of whom I found to be whiney and annoying.  Also, Margolis over-uses metaphors to the point of ridiculousness--a good example is the \\"wooly mamouth\\" quote in the editorial review above.  I think that this is supposed to be raunchy British wit, but I just found it to be stupid and not at all funny, unlike the other British books I've read.  Perhaps fans of Benny Hill-type humor will enjoy this one, but it just wasn't for me.	2002-08-27
US	52571463	RZJ9BAMLIPXR5	0743411323	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favorite Elizabeth Berg book so far.	This is the third book I've read by Berg, and it's my favorite so far.  The main character, Myra, is a 51 year old spinster who's never had much of a life.  Although she enjoys her job as a home visit nurse and her dog Frank, she has little else to give her life meaning.  Suddenly, everything changes when she is assigned a new client, who turns out to be the popular, likeable boy that everyone (including shy, unattractive Myra) had a crush on in high school, Chip.  Chip has come home to live with his parents after being diagnosed with a brain tumor; he is well aware that death is imminent.  Chip is pleased to discover that Myra is his nurse, and the two form a friendship in addition to their professional relationship.  Complications unfold as Myra's old feelings for Chip resurface and Chip's ex-girlfriend Diann comes to visit.  In addition, the story is visited by the odd characters who make up Myra's other clients:  DeWitt, a drug dealer with a gunshot wound; Grace, a 15-year old new mother; Marvelous, a woman who becomes Myra's friend; and several interesting others.  At first, Myra seems more of a pathetic than a likeable character, but when you start seeing her interact with her patients, you develop admiration and respect for her skill at what she does.  As Chip's health deteriorates, so does Myra's outlook on life, but Chip and the other characters try to make her see differently.  There are several unexpected twists and turns, including an ending that is not quite as predictable as you might think.  Berg also includes an epilogue, which gives this book a greater sense of completeness than her other works.  Overall, I found this to be a quick, enjoyable read that I would recommend to fans of Berg or other quirky female novelists such as Anne Tyler.	2002-08-15
US	52571463	RFBD6DLFDX33F	0553111035	975856624	Folly	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Intriguing story about a woman recovering from trauma.	Rae Newborn is a 50-something woman who has struggled with mental illness virtually all of her adult life.  However, after she is attacked in an attempted rape a few short weeks after her beloved husband and young daughter are killed in a car accident, she goes over the edge, spending months in a mental institution.  When she finally begins to emerge on the path to recovery, she makes a decision to head for an isolated, unhabited (fictional) island off the coast of Washington state.  Years before, Rae's uncle had come to the same island for peace and solitude and had built himself a home; when his near-completed house burnt almost to the ground, he disappeared.  Rae, formerly a well-known furniture-maker and artist, resolves to rebuild her Uncle Desmond's house despite how \\"crazy\\" this might seem to others, including her grown daughter.  The book mostly details Rae's thoughts and reflections as she works on her house in solitude, although she receives occasional visits from her supply boat, the local sheriff, and a female park ranger.  Interspersed throughout the story are selections from Rae's own journal as well as that of her Uncle Desmond, which she uncovers in the course of her labors.  The theme is that of a woman building her future (literally) while still recovering from her traumatic past.  There's a few surprising twists thown in at the end, although the climatic conflict of the book was over quickly and a little too neatly.  Other than that, however, the book was an enjoyable and engaging read.	2002-08-12
US	52571463	RCBRGKBDWMHTJ	0609804618	852111366	Our Dumb Century: The Onion Presents 100 Years of Headlines from America's Finest News Source	Books	5	6	7	N	N	You WILL laugh out loud!	For anyone not yet familiar with The Onion, it is a satirical newspaper similar in style to the defunct Spy magazine.  Available online at theonion.com or in a paper version, The Onion offers hilarious made-up news stories, features, and columns.  You are guarenteed to laugh out loud just reading the headlines, especially the headlines from famous past events included in this book ....  This is a must-have book for anyone with a sardonic sense of humor, and it makes a great gift.  One thing to note:  the type is very small in places, so a magnifying glass makes reading easier.  Have fun!	2002-08-09
US	52571463	R1AA9BQ2DMCGRP	0446670499	475520747	Kathy Smith's Fitness Makeover: A 10-Week Guide to Exercise and Nutrition That Will Change Your Life	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Good review for someone who doesn't know where to start.	After seeing so many great reviews of this book here, I borrowed it from the library.  The book is a 10-week plan to improved fitness and is more geared to women.  Each week, Kathy focuses on one nutrition concept and one body part--for example, Week 1 is &quot;Fat and Abs.&quot;  After a few pages describing the concepts for the week, there are a series of worksheets to help you keep track of your exercise and eating for that week.  This format continues for all 10 weeks, which means that the bulk of the book is made up of the worksheets rather than actual information.  At the end of the book, Kathy has included sections on stretches and toning exercises for the entire body.  Both sections are nice illustrated with pictures of Kathy performing the moves, and each move is described in detail.<br />Being someone who has exercised regularly for years and who knows basic nutrition, I didn't feel like I learned anything from this book.  However, I did like the idea of keep specific logs of my eating and exercise habits, so I might try to incorporate that from this book.  Even though this book wasn't really for me, it would be great for someone wanting to get started on the path to healthy eating and exercise but who has no idea where to begin.  Kathy is extremely non-threatening, and she takes you through everything you need to know step-by-step.  However, you should be aware that if you follow Kathy's plan, you will need to obtain a separate book that lists fat and calorie contents for foods; Kathy makes several recommendations for these at the start of her book.	2002-08-08
US	52571463	R1G0TK2OGINH8Z	0553263900	410013273	When I Say No, I Feel Guilty	Books	5	95	100	N	N	Learn assertiveness skills with this excellent manual.	I am a psychologist working in a college counseling center, and this is the number one book on assertiveness that I recommend to my clients.  Dr. Smith begins by describing &quot;Your 10 Assertive Rights,&quot; a reminder that we all have a right do such human things as say &quot;I don't know&quot; and change our minds.  He then introduces various assertiveness strategies one by one, starting with the very basic skill of persistence (AKA the &quot;broken record&quot; technique).  For each strategy, Dr. Smith presents a short dialogue vignette to help you better understand how to apply that technique to real life.  Once he has thoroughly taught all of the individual techniques, Dr. Smith puts them all together and addresses assertiveness in different types of situations--ie, with your family members versus with your boss.  This is a great book for anyone who is tired of not being able to say &quot;no&quot; and ready to learn how to change their behavior.	2002-07-29
US	52571463	RZVZFXXJD6MHM	1861561458	802079939	Humour on the Couch	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Very disappointing...not at all what I had expected.	Maybe I misunderstood what this book was all about before I bought it, but it was a big disappointment.  I'm a therapist who tries to encorporate humor in my work, and I had thought this book would help by providing ideas for how to do this in the form of case vignettes, etc.  While the author does provide short case examples at times, overall, the book is much more philosophical/theoretical.  Very little time is spent addressing how humor is used in therapy; rather, the book looks at the history of humor and how humor develops in individuals.  If you are a therapist looking for a book to assist with your work, you are unlikely to find this book helpful.	2002-07-29
US	52571463	R4WZK1G2CMUWW	0879857730	871246670	Great Photos With The Advanced Photo System	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A nice little book for improving your pictures.	This little paperback book provides a good introduction not only to the Advanced Photo System (APS), but also to general photography technique.  It helps you to learn about your APS camera and to make decisions on how and when to use the various photo modes and sizes.  It also talks about composing your photographs to obtain the best shot possible, and it covers specific issues such as indoor versus outdoor photography, holiday and vacation shots, children, etc.  This would be a great book for anyone beginning to have a serious interest in taking pictures, and it would be appropriate for an older child/teenager.	2002-07-26
US	52571463	R1KYGK8M9ZJW7D	0446609013	837574804	Unsolved UFO Mysteries: The World's Most Compelling Cases of Alien Encounter	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A good overview of famous alien encounters.	This book is divided into ten chapters, each addressing a different aspect of the alien phenomena.  All of the best-known cases from the past 25 years or so are here, from the Gulf Breeze UFO sitings to the Rendlesham Forest incident in Great Britian to alien abductions.  As another reviewer mentioned, the authors do rely largely on second-hand and anecdotal information--for example, they frequently refer to well-known books by other authors.  But the purpose of this book is not to offer a lot of technical and scientific evidence; rather, it is to provide a broad overview for readers with a beginning interest in ufology.  Assuming that this book sustains your interest and raises your curiousity--as it did for me--you may then want to move on to reading some of the more research-based, detailed works which are available, but this book remains an excellent introduction to ufology.	2002-07-26
US	52571463	R2Y9JMXMUXBF6Q	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An occasionally predictable but thoroughly enjoyable read.	This short, engaging novel focuses on the life of a 30-something woman (Sam) whose husband has abaondoned her after over 10 years of marriage.  Although Sam is aware of the problems in the relationship, she has no idea how to address these issues, and she is devastated when her husband decides to leave.  The book details Sam's efforts to find some way to cope with her pain, from going on a shopping spree at Tiffany's to taking in boarders to to working temp jobs to calling Martha Stewart to ask about her own divorce.  Supporting characters come in the form of Sam's pre-adolescent son, her former college roommate, and a male loner who becomes one of her main supports.  Although I was able to predict the ending long before I got there, I was still able to enjoy the ride.	2002-07-18
US	52571463	R2NKEODAALZNS9	1572242140	29523483	The Relaxation & Stress Reduction Workbook	Books	5	241	245	N	N	Easy-to-read, concrete strategies for stress reduction.	I'm a psychologist working in a college counseling center, and this is one of the top self-help books which I recommend to my clients. It's appropriate for anyone looking to find ways to reduce the amount of anxiety and stress they feel. Strategies address all areas of anxiety, including physical tension, worry, and interpersonal issues.  Each chapter details a specific anxiety reduction strategy--eg, diaphragmatic breathing, self-hypnosis, thought stopping--and at the start of the book, there is a self quiz to help determine which chapters would best meet your individual needs.  This is one of the best, simpliest books avaiable for reducing anxiety and stress; it's also useful for a wide variety of related problems such as depression and difficulties sleeping. Highly recommended!	2002-06-27
US	52571463	R24231YIWEL1MW	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Funny and engaging; great light reading	This book describes the life of a young woman working as a \\"part-time\\" nanny while attending college in NYC.  Her employers are the ultimate definition of \\"rich dysfunctional,\\" a couple who cares more for their high-class clothes and furniture than their adorable 4-year old son Grayer.  But the main character (aptly named \\"Nan,\\" or Nanny), can't help but fall in love with Grayer, which causes her to quietly accept being treated as less than human by her employers.  Although the behavior of the rich couple is so outlandish as to seem unbelievable, the authors spent years as nannies themselves in NYC, and the implication is that they encountered similar abhorable behavior and worse.  However, Nanny's passive acceptance of her treatment by the couple is even more difficult to understand, to the point which it was frustrating to read.  Despite this, I enjoyed this lighthearted book and would recommend it to anyone looking for a quick, easy, and enjoyable  read.	2002-06-26
US	52571463	R1WTQ8HFJD35BY	0671004611	466018903	The Day After Roswell	Books	4	5	8	N	N	An unbelievable story about the use of Roswell technology.	I have long believed that something happened in Roswell, NM on the night of July 4, 1947 that was much different from the official story of a weather balloon crash released by the army.  In this book, Col. Corso describes how alien technology recovered from Roswell was integrated into the development of new, advanced products in America, such as lasers, circuits, and much more.  He focuses only briefly on the actual crash of the alien ship and the EBEs (extraterristral biological entities) which were found at the site, as he was not present for this and did not become inimately involved in Roswell until 14 years later.  His detailed story of the many people who were aware of the Roswell incident yet participated in the massive coverup is incredible.  Although his version of events is difficult to believe, Col. Corso is convincing enough that you are forced to conclude he is either telling the truth, is a magnificent liar, or is downright crazy.  Whichever conclusion you come to for yourself, this is a fascinating and engaging story.	2002-06-26
US	52571463	RE8YX7DUA8ZE2	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engaging follow-up to The Talisman.	As always, King and Straub have told a captivating tale that will keep you turning the pages.  A nuance to DH that was missing from the first book is the connection to King's Dark Tower series; as a fan of this series, I enjoyed the references to it, but others might not appreciate this aspect of DH.  I also found it a little hard to relate the Jack Sawyer of DH to the Jack Sawyer of The Talisman--maybe a prelude would have been helpful.  Finally, in contrast with the Talisman, very little of DH takes place within the Territories.  Overall, however, I found this to be an enjoyable, engaging read.	2002-04-12
US	52571463	R1A4Y4DO0R2TCL	0931580390	492185208	How to Heal Depression	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Great for understanding and normalizing depression.	I am a psychologist working in a college counseling center, and I frequently recommend this book to my clients. The only thing I don't like about the book is the title, because I think it is misleading. Rather than help to \\"heal\\" depression, this book is excellent for helping one to understand their depression and to normalize this experience as a means to reduce self-blame. The best part of this book is its unique, easy-to-read format: the chapters are written in outline form, and each chapter is just 1-2 pages long and printed on the left-hand sides of the pages only. The right-hand side pages contain quotes and sayings from famous people who have experienced depression, including Abraham Lincoln (\\"I am now the most miserable man living\\"). A great first step to understanding depression in yourself or someone you love.	2002-03-19
US	52571463	R1I1AHA1WST0A3	0375411798	715003990	Me Times Three	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Unoriginal, yes, but still enjoyable book for women.	Although I agree with the other reviewers who compared this book to Bridget Jones' Diary, I disagree with the premise that you shouldn't read it based on its lack of originality alone. Although clearly similar to Bridget Jones and other books of that vain, I found that Me Times Three has a more serious element (similar to Jennifer Weiner's Good in Bed). Set in NYC during the 1980s, the book does focus on romantic relationships and the working world but also addresses more serious issues such as AIDS. The title really doesn't fully encompass the story--yes, the main character discovers that her fiance is engaged to two other women, but this quickly becomes a minor plotline as the story progresses to other issues.  The book is both funny and touching, and overall, I found it to be an engaging read which I would recommend to anyone else who enjoys books of this genre.	2002-03-19
US	52571463	R3NG2YIFN7WJDQ	0440500060	698057493	Outgrowing the Pain: A Book for and About Adults Abused As Children	Books	5	78	82	N	N	Great beginning book for all types of childhood abuse.	I'm a psychologist in a college counseling center, and I frequently recommend this book to students who are just beginning to come to terms with a history of childhood abuse, whether it be physical, sexual, emotional, or even neglect.  Although the book's illustrations are somewhat juvenille, the content is excellent, and the overall impression is non-threatening.  It's a short, simple, easy-to-read book that would be a great first step for anyone who is ready to begin addressing these issues.	2002-03-19
US	52571463	R3JHJ7AUB82UHW	0931580439	365897156	How to Survive the Loss of a Love	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Gentle, supportive book for anyone who has experienced loss.	I am a psychologist working in a college counseling center, and I frequently recommend this book to my clients. It provides support for anyone who is experiencing grief related to a loss, including the death of a loved one and the breakup of a relationship. The best thing about this book is its unique, easy-to-read format: the chapters are written in outline form, and each chapter is just 1-2 pages long and printed on the left-hand sides of the pages only. The right-hand side pages contain poems, quotes, and sayings offering comfort as well as inspiration.  This book will help you to feel that you are not along as you begin to cope with your loss.	2002-03-19
US	52571463	R3D5WXCUVF5MM5	0764112589	65482051	The New Food Lover's Companion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MUST HAVE for ALL cooks, from novice to expert!	This is a WONDERFUL cooking reference book.  Organized like an encyclopedia, it contains entries on every aspect of cooking you can think of, from rarely used cooking terms to hard-to-find spices and delicacies.  It has been an invaluable reference whenever I've needed more information about an unfamiliar ingredient or cooking process; every term that I've looked up has been in the book.  In addition, in contains several very useful appendices such as an equivalency list (eg, how many pears do you need for 1 cup?) as well as the most comprehensive substitution list I have ever seen.  Regardless of whether you are a beginning cook or an experienced chef, you will reach for this book time and time again.	2002-03-19
US	52571463	R3PXA6FGBEG9G6	0312958129	994326351	Coming Home	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My first Pilcher read and still my favorite.	A friend turned me onto Pilcher by loaning me this book some years back.  Since that time, I've read all of Pilcher's books, but this remains my favorite.  It is an engaging saga, with much of the book covering the course of WWII as well as the after-effects of this war.  The story begins with a young woman and follows both her own family and the connections she makes with the family of a boarding school friend.  Although the book is more likely to appeal to women, is it not a romance novel.  In addition to enjoying the read, I found it to be educational as well--a wonderful historical novel.	2002-02-05
US	52571463	R10G13T87FCR7J	0345332997	663056959	A Man Rides Through (Mordant's Need, Vol. II)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An excellent, must-read conclusion to Mirror of Her Dreams.	This is the second book of Mordant's Need, a 2-part fantasy saga.  As I said in my review of the first book, The Mirror of Her Dreams, these two books together form the best and perhaps the most original story I have ever read.  I don't read a lot of fantasy, but this book is so much more than that; it's also a wonderful thriller with elements of mystery and romance.<br />A Man Rides Through picks up immediately where the first book left off--eg,\\"The next day, the siege of Orison began.\\"  Thus, this \\"series\\" is better viewed as a single two-part book, with the second part being just as engaging as the first.  As the plight of Mordant worsens, Book 2 brings us into other areas of the realm and offers new characters who were only alluded to in the first book.  The wonderfully inventive craft of imagery introduced in Book 1 is further expanded here, and the main characters, Terisa and Geraden, are more complexly developed as they move on their way to becoming full-fledged heros.  Donaldson does a wonderful job of bringing together all the various aspects of this amazing story in a magnificent and triumphant ending.	2002-02-05
US	52571463	R36VYCLP0Q521O	0345346971	666410706	The Mirror of Her Dreams (Mordant's Need)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Perhaps my all-time favorite book; even better than King!	I first read this book in college: my-then boyfriend had received it as a gift, and he and I read the book simultaneously.  I finished first and was overwhelmed with disappointment that the story had ended!  Donaldson concludes the book right in the middle of the story; he finishes the saga in the next volume, A Man Rides Through.  I immediately bought the hardcover version of A Man Rides Through, and the two books together are perhaps the best story I have ever read.  It is a fantasy saga with an amazing original concept that is complex but extremely readable.  Recently, I was thrilled to find a used hardcover version of the first book via amazon, so now I have a matching set.  I'm a huge Stephen King fan as well, but on this on occasion, Donaldson managed to outshine even King's brilliance.	2002-02-05
US	52571463	R1ZYD2HYQUDQB8	1556708955	459991280	How to Photograph Your Baby: Getting Closer with Your Camera and Your Heart	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Great baby shower gift!	I've purchased this book twice for baby showers, and it's always been a huge hit!  I don't have kids myself, but reviewing the book provided me with a lot of ideas for photographing people in general.  A great gift for new parents/grandparents!	2002-01-31
US	52571463	R3QAULL2JGMUAK	0970234473	397079062	Planning Your Future: A Guide for Professional Women	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A basic, helpful guide for women, esp. those wanting kids.	My mother bought this book for me and my two sisters.  We are in the 21-33 age range, and being the oldest, the book isn't quite as applicable to me.  However, I think this book would be very helpful to younger women just starting out in their careers, particularly those who are faced with juggling work and family obligations.  With respect to having children, the book addresses issues such as natural childbirth and breastfeeding.  The book would make a nice college graduation gift for a young woman just entering the work force.	2001-08-07
US	52571463	R2GX7TDXODLYZU	0738853070	699084641	Lifelines	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A first-hand account of how heart disease affects families	I went to college with Dr. Jensh's daughter, Vicki, and thus I have known Dr. Jensh and his family for about 13 years now.  I was in contact with the family at the time of Dr. Jensh's heart transplant, and I read one of the first versions of this book, which the author wrote soon after his operation.  Lifelines offers a unique perspective into living with heart disease, including how this issue affects not just the patient but also the family as a whole.  Chapters written by my friend and her sister detail the impact of parental illness on children from the point of view of both an adult child and an adolescent.  The book is moving, engaging, and fascinating, and I believe it is likely to be appreciated by anyone who enjoys insight into human experiences.  However, Lifelines is especially applicable to those who have experienced heart disease in their own families; I believe those readers in particular would derive support and encouragement from this book.	2001-05-18
US	52571463	R2D644KECQGE2	0140329455	230294306	The Mysterious Disappearance of Leon (I Mean Noel)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	One of my favorite pre-adolescent reads!	I've been an avid reader since childhood, and this book was one of my favorites during my pre-adolescent years (late 70s).  I've always thought of it as kind of an obscure book, so I was shocked when I stumbled across it on a list of favorite children's books. The kudos are well-deserved, though: as others have said, this is a wonderful, unique mystery story. As you read the book, various clues are provided to help you solve the mystery of Leon's (I mean Noel!) disappearance; two twins, a boy and a girl, work to solve the mystery along with you.  I re-read the book many times, and it was just as enjoyable even after I knew the answer to the mystery (which I had NOT been able to figure out on my own!).  A great, timeless read for girls and boys alike.	2001-04-13
US	52571463	R2DR1C9XP26BXO	0061014656	969268355	Almost Paradise	Books	4	9	12	N	N	An engaging book with a disappointing ending	I've read several of Susan Issacs' books, and I've found her to write good, character-focused stories that are well-paced. This is the first book of hers I've read in which the main character is not a woman; instead, Almost Paradise centers around two main characters, a woman AND a man who wind up marrying. The story is told over the course of many years: after a brief glimpse of the present at the start of the book, Issac goes into the background of the two main characters, Jane and Nicholas. This gives an intersting perspective of history, as it goes back several generations (in greater detail with Nicholas rather than Jane). The book then continues the story, going through Jane and Nicholas' childhoods, their eventual meeting and marrying, and the course of their relationship.<br /><br />Although I found this book engaging and moving, I was a little disappointed in the ending. After Issacs spends the entire book getting the reader to really care about the main characters [WARNING: slight spolier ahead], the ending involves a tragedy, leaving the reader (and, in fact, the main characters as well) to feel somewhat cheated. I supposed that all books can't end on a positive note, but the fact that this one didn't was a huge disappointment. Luckily, the ending only minimally detracts from what was overall a good, entertaining read.	2000-12-11
US	52571463	R1GD3KH498XPDU	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Hey, I actually liked this book!	I've read through some of the other reviews, which mostly seem to be written by several described \\"die-hard\\" Dune fans who felt that this book didn't live up to their unrealistic expectations.  Well, I believe that I should qualify as a \\"die-hard\\" fan myself--I did read all six of the original books and was quite disappointed that Frank Herbert died before he could write the sequel to Dune:  Chapterhouse--but I actually LIKED this book. I think that most fans will appreciate having more of the background story and thus will devour all three of the prequel books as I have. So what if the writing quality doesn't quite live up to Frank Herbert's? This is not something I even noticed (it was mentioned in other reviews), but regardless, it's the Dune CONCEPT that is so amazing, and Herbert's son and co-writer have done a great job with it. I think that any REASONABLE Dune fan will love this book and the two follow-up prequels as well--you just need to read them with an open mind!	2000-11-14
US	52571463	REPKN93EPLBSU	0671612689	257613214	Weaveworld	Books	4	4	9	N	N	A good introduction to Barker's work	I enjoy Stephen King, but I had been hestitant to try Clive Barker, as I prefer fantasty/thriller type books to true horror--based on ads for the Hellraiser movies, I thought Barker fell into the latter category.  However, I recently came across Weaveworld, which was described as an epic  fantasy and which had received many raving reviews, so I thought this would  be a good book for me to try Barker for the first time.<br /> I wasn't  disappointed:  Barker is a good storyteller, and he creates an interesting,  engaging world in Weaveworld.  However, I found his prose to be awkward at  times and his characters to be inconsistent--it was difficult for me to  keep a stable view of each person in my mind.<br /> In addition, I still  feel that Stephen King is the *master* storyteller (re-reading The Dead  Zone right after Weaveworld confirmed this), and that compared to him,  Barker is no more than entertaining.  Furthermore, I don't believe that  Weaveworld is the best fantasty world story that I've ever read--that  distinction continues to be held by Stephen R. Donaldson's Mirror of Her  Dreams and A Man Rides Through (Mordant's Need, Books 1 & 2).  This was  unquestionably the greatest fantasy story I've ever come across; Weaveworld  pales in comparison.<br /> Despite these factors, Weaveworld is still an  enjoyable read, and it has at least made me willing to read more of  Barker's work--maybe even Hellraiser! ;-)	1998-11-13
US	52571463	R1UXQZ62FR0N46	0805029281	222317355	Recovering From Rape: Practical Advice on Overcoming the Trauma and Coping with Police, Hospitals, and the Courts - for the Survivors of Sexual Assault and their Families, Lovers and Friends	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An excellent guide book for rape survivors.	As a clinical psychologist working in a college counseling center, I often recommend this book to clients who have been victims of rape/sexual assault.  It provides excellent educational material, including a review of rape myths, information on typical effects of a rape (very useful for helping survivors feel they are not alone),  and much more.  Plus, Ledray takes her readers through the legal process of prosecuting a rapist in a step-by-step fashion.  A final valuable addition is the inclusion of guidelines for significant others at the end of every chapter.  My only  caveat is that this book focuses on stranger rape rather than the much more prevalent date rape, but despite this, it is an extremely valuable resource.	1998-09-24
