US	52589132	R3A5PINMHGGAMN	0312315732	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Incredibly Thoughtful and Entertaining	With some books we admire the author's ability to weave together an interesting, gripping story that keeps us turning the pages; reading the whole book in only a few sittings. Sometimes we admire an author who goes through the difficult effort of making sure his characters are believable, characters who actually seem like real, flesh and blood human beings we could actually encounter in real life. Other times we're impressed by an author's skillful way with words, his or her ability to put words together in an intelligent, clever, thoughtful yet accessible way.    Tom Perrotta's \\"Little Children\\" is a novel to be admired on all those levels. For me, though, this was a book that transcended normal parameters of \\"good\\" and \\"bad\\". This novel struck me straight in the heart as I imagine it does and will for many readers who are of an age similar to the main characters in the novel. While this novel will inevitably be reduced to the description of a \\"satire of suburban discontent\\" it seemed like so much more than that to me. This is a book that tackles one of those incredibly difficult and uncomfortable topics many people like to deny exists or throw under the rug. That is: What essential part of me got lost when I became a spouse and a parent? What dreams and aspirations now have to be given up because I am now responsible for the lives of other people?     It's easy to disapprove of some of the irresponsible and downright selfish behavior of many of the characters in this novel (hence the \\"Little Children\\" title), but Perrotta portrays these characters with such depth and sympathy that you may find yourself in disagreement with many of their choices, but understanding where the behavior is coming from.    This is the third Perrotta novel I've read and I've enjoyed them all, but for me this is easily the best.	2005-10-03
US	52589132	RSHQ4O31JDBZ8	1400051754	483726079	Superstud: Or How I Became a 24-Year-Old Virgin	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Paul's Pain is Your Gain	Paul Feig's \\"Superstud\\" is a funny book in part because Feig is obviously a talented writer with a gift for comedy. But it's also entertaining because it's a book about those excruciating experiences all members of the male species go through but rarely discuss with one another. Most men are happy to discuss their conquests and victories in the bedroom department; not nearly as many are willing to discuss their outright failures and embarrassments in the same area. Paul Feig on the other hand has written a highly entertaining book on the subject.  <br /> <br />The book starts off with tales from Feig's early years of, to put it politely, \\"self-discovery\\". Truth be told, I'm sure many guys have, like Paul, visited a bookstore \\"Photography\\" section for reasons other than to learn more about shutters, lenses and filters.  <br /> <br />The book really takes off once it gets to the stories from Paul's love life (or perhaps more appropriately, the lack thereof) with other actual human beings. No story in the book is ever less than amusing, however, three stories in particular -  the one detailing Paul's utter humiliation on a crowded roller rink on a day he thought was going to be his moment of glory, one about Paul's \\"date\\" (date is in quotes because it is highly questionable whether the girl was aware she was on one) with the bustiest girl in his high school and one that uses real entries from a diary Paul kept in the early 80s to illustrate the highs and lows of his relationship with a not-so-closeted racist - reach the level of absolute hilarity.  <br /> <br />Fans of \\"Freaks and Geeks\\", the critically acclaimed TV series Feig created, will also have fun picking out the bits from Paul's life that also made their way onto the TV series.	2005-09-26
US	52589132	RL28RLJTDOXLT	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very Good Book About A Very Touchy Subject	Four people - A former  morning TV talk show host who has lost his career, family and reputation as a result of an ill-advised affair with a 15-year-old girl; a deeply religious woman who simply cannot see any hope beyond a life sentence of constantly caring for her disabled, vegetative son; a musician whose dreams of rock stardom have instead faded into a career as an adult pizza delivery person and  a manic, hostile teenage girl - all show up on the same night atop the same building, a popular London location for those about to commit suicide. Effectively ruining one another's plans for the evening (jumping off the roof, I guess, is something people prefer to do alone), the book follows these four as they form a sort of de facto, if extremely dysfunctional, support group based on the one thing they all share in common: the feeling of being completely at the end of your rope and wanting to end it all.    Who else but Nick Hornby could write a novel with such a dark premise, featuring four suicidal characters, yet still have the novel be accurately described as hilariously funny? A real credit to this novel is how the comedy sometimes reaches the level of slapstick, then in the next paragraph will portray the same characters with such sensitivity and empathy it almost breaks your heart. A fair criticism of the novel could be that with the exception of Maureen, the character with the severely handicapped son, none of the characters problems really seem to be so dire to where one would be driven to the brink of suicide. I wonder if Hornby felt it would be impossible to keep the tone of the book somewhat light if the circumstances of his characters were much harsher?     I enjoyed the unique narration of this novel, telling the story in four separate first-person narratives so the reader is able to get each characters perspective on the events of the novel and also see how each character is seen through the lens of the other characters eyes. As a reader, I also truly appreciate Hornby's absolute refusal to ever let his story descend into schmaltz. No character experiences any sort of cheesy, life-affirming epiphany where they suddenly realize, gosh dangit, life really is worth living after all. This isn't to say this isn't ultimately an optimistic or even uplifting book; the fact the book earns this description without ever becoming maudlin is a real credit to the storytelling ability of the author.	2005-09-12
US	52589132	R1W6ERZBPMX4FQ	1550226614	308267682	The Death of WCW: Wrestlecrap and Figure Four Weekly Present . . .	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Death of a Once Great Wrestling Promotion	On the one hand, \\"The Death of WCW\\" is just the story of the rise and fall of a professional wrestling promotion. On the other hand, the book almost reads like a modern day moral fable where men who get consumed by the vices of greed, arrogance, egotism and delusions of grandeur end up getting their just deserts.    The book covers the entire history of WCW, from its early years as the perennial distant number two wrestling company in the country behind the WWF, through its rise under the surprising leadership of Eric Bischoff (surprising because Bischoff's only previous notoriety in the wrestling business came as a third-string announcer) to the position of not only the top wrestling promotion in the country, but into a company so incredibly successful that it actually appeared for awhile they might run the once-powerful WWF right out of business. Of course, the book then covers WCW's tailspin where they not only lose the position of top wrestling promotion in the country back to the resurging WWF, but end up going out of business altogether just a few short years after their greatest success.    I enjoyed \\"The Death of WCW\\" overall -it was easy, fast reading, often funny, an interesting trip down memory lane and I feel the authors were fair and accurate in their analysis of what factors led to the promotion's amazing success as well as what led to its shocking downward spiral. If I have any constructive criticism for the authors it would simply be to better decide on who your audience is prior to writing. The book doesn't really offer any new insights or uncover any previously unknown information regarding the demise of WCW, making it slightly disappointing for long-time wrestling fans like myself who are already familiar with the story from following it in real-time through newsletters and wrestling news web-sites.   Yet alternatively the book would often drop names and insider wrestling terms without giving a whole lot of description as to who the people were (or their significance in the industry) or explanation as to what the terms mean, leading me to believe the book may be somewhat hard to follow for the more casual wrestling fan. Otherwise, a very good effort that is easy to recommend.	2005-08-31
US	52589132	RLE1KI5IQ0S1J	0449207862	167533139	Winning Through Intimidation	Books	4	80	86	N	N	Surprisingly Insightful	Full confession - I never meant to take Robert J. Ringer's &quot;Winning Through Intimidation&quot; seriously. On a recent visit to my parents house I found a tattered, 30-year-old hardcover edition of this book on a dusty bookshelf in the storage room. The corny title caught my eye, so I grabbed it, thinking it might be fun to read for a laugh. <br />It wasn't just the age of the book that I figured would make it ripe for comedy (though I do wonder if Ringer's message to women that they too could use his philosophies and strategies - to &quot;sell&quot; themselves as wife material to a man - has been edited out of more recent editions). It is the fact that I find most sales technique books to be hilariously bad. I almost always find myself questioning whether the authors have ever worked a day in sales in their lives, since most such books offer advice that would only work if A) every client you ever dealt with was a complete and total moron and/or B) your clients just happen to follow the hypothetical &quot;scripts&quot; included in most of these books word for word.<br />Imagine my surprise to find that &quot;Winning Through Intimidation&quot; (which is a misnomer, &quot;Winning Through Not Letting Yourself GET Intimidated&quot; is a more appropriate, if less colorful, title) is filled with great fundamental, common sense advice for anyone in the field of sales. It is obvious that Ringer has spent a great deal of time in the trenches - he accurately points out many common mistakes made by salespeople (spending WAY too much time on a particular account because it makes you feel busy, as opposed to because the account will realistically ever actually buy anything, not realizing the importance of having all agreements with clients in writing and keeping a paper trail of your communications, believing that your client is ever going to have YOUR best interest at heart, thinking that &quot;closing the deal&quot; is the end-all-be-all goal of sales, when actually *getting paid*  is far more important). This would be a great book to give to a person new to the field of sales to insure that he or she only develops good habits. I question how &quot;useful&quot; this book is to the more experienced salesperson, only because if a salesperson hasn't already realized through experience that the philosophies and techniques from this book are valid, then they are probably beyond help.	2004-04-21
US	52589132	R2INE3K1TL8BZ7	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Excellent	The biggest compliment I can give to Tom Wolfe's \\"A Man in Full\\" is acknowledging that if I somehow found myself transported 100 or 500 years into the future and wanted to give people an idea of what life in American was like at the close of the 20th century, I would just as soon give them a copy of this novel as I would a historical textbook.  Writing equally well about characters at varying places along the socio-economic spectrum, Wolfe perfectly captures the mood, attitude, and cultural condition of contemporary America. Reading this book today, approximately six years after its original publish date, one almost has to look at Wolfe as a prophet, as one of the novel's major subplots involving a famous black athlete accused of raping a beautiful, rich, white girl has an eerie similarity to a current legal case involving a particular Los Angeles Lakers superstar.<br />Another compliment to this wonderful novel is that while many characters are obviously intended to represent certain stereotypes (the egomaniacal, overbearing multimillionaire, the trophy wife vs. the cast-aside first wife, the working class stiff who can't seem to catch a break, the wimpy middle-management type, etc), few of the characters ever appear to be anything less than fully developed 3-dimensional characters. By delving deep into the psyches of his characters, Wolfe is able to make characters who could easily have come off as clichés into oddly sympathetic figures. It is difficult to try to condense the breadth and depth of this 700+ page (hardcover edition) novel into a few short paragraphs, so I will conclude by simply stating that while this book was a successful bestseller, it seems to me that this is the sort of great work that will be even better appreciated years from now than it may have been in its own time.	2004-04-09
US	52589132	R33H8E4OJDCYM5	1550225847	678921241	Wrestlecrap: The Very Worst of Pro Wrestling	Books	3	45	50	N	N	Not Wrestlecrap material, but slightly disappointing	I have to admit, &quot;Wrestlecrap&quot; is one of the few books where I actually considered inflating my rating. The book seems like it was a genuine labor of love for someone who, as far as I know, is not a professional writer by trade. And there were a number of good laughs to be found within its pages. But I would be lying if I didn't acknowledge that as a big fan of the &quot;Wrestlecrap&quot; web-site, I found myself somewhat disappointed in the book, and have a feeling that other fans of the site will have the same reaction.<br />The whole appeal of the &quot;Wrestlecrap&quot; web-site, and what makes it a source of such hilarity, is how it goes into minute detail describing the ridiculousness and inanity of some of the worst wrestling gimmicks ever presented to the public. In this book, though, instead of &quot;going with what brought him to the dance&quot;, the book is written more as a &quot;Cliffs Notes&quot; history of the wrestling business over the past twenty years. The dumb angles, preposterous gimmicks, and ridiculous storylines that are gone over with a fine tooth comb to hilarious effect on the web-site are often given only a few sentence description in the book. Granted, these are generally a hysterical few sentences, I just wish the book offered the same level of detail that the web-site does.<br />I also noticed a number of factual and chronological inaccuracies in the book, which leads me to believe that the author chose to rely primarily on his memory for research (the very short &quot;Sources&quot; section at the end of the book seems to confirm my suspicion). For example, the author claims that Hulk Hogan's box office bomb, &quot;Santa with Muscles&quot;, as opposed to ruining Hogan's acting career, actually led to him getting his own TV series, &quot;Thunder in Paradise&quot;. Only problem is, &quot;Thunder in Paradise&quot; came out in 1994, &quot;Santa with Muscles&quot; hit theaters in 1996. In the chapter entitled &quot;Warrior Wisdom&quot;, Reynolds claims that after breaking into the business together in California, Jim &quot;Ultimate Warrior&quot; Hellwig and Steve &quot;Sting&quot; Borden went their separate ways, with Sting going to the Mid-South/UWF  promotion and Ultimate Warrior going to World Class Wrestling in Texas. Actually, Sting and Warrior went to Mid-South/UWF Wrestling together as The Blade Runners tag team before Warrior later left for World Class. Reynolds was also off on when Ole Anderson was fired as WCW booker (he was actually fired BEFORE the infamous &quot;Black Scorpion&quot; angle reached its conclusion, not after as the book claims) and on when the NWO split into the &quot;NWO Hollywood&quot; and &quot;NWO Wolfpac&quot; factions (the book claims the split came after the &quot;Fingerpoke of Doom&quot; angle between Hulk Hogan and Kevin Nash, when actually that angle is what ended the split). Admittedly, some of these are fairly minor errors, but for a book that is primarily going to appeal to long-time hardcore wrestling fans, there is nothing that an author can do to lose credibility with his audience that to present a number of incorrect facts that many readers will pick up on.<br />I'm probably being overly negative here, a result of high expectations. I should mention that the book is very well-written and there were times when Reynolds really hit his grove, like when describing the inane plotlines of many Hulk Hogan movies, rehashing some of Vince McMahon's hair-brained schemes like the World Bodybuilding Federation and XFL, or when going off on the 200 years behind the times portrayal of black wrestlers like Kimala or Saba Simba. I also selfishly hope that despite its faults, the book sells extremely well so that Reynolds can bring back the full Wrestlecrap web-site, instead of the scaled down version that has been up for the past few years.	2004-01-23
US	52589132	R3DADC1V3TNGXB	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Tales from &quot;Behind the Kitchen Door&quot;	I purchased &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; expecting a tell-all expose on what REALLY goes on behind the kitchen door in the average restaurant. And the book absolutely delivers on that level. An added treat is that the book is also the often hilarious tale of Anthony Bourdain's personal journey from misguided youth, who took a job at a restaurant only after friends he was sharing a Summer getaway with during college got tired of him not covering his share of the expenses, to the executive chef at a fine French eatery in NYC today. The story of the single event that caused Bourdain to aspire to become a chef is almost worth the price of the book alone. <br />The most interesting chapter of the book is the \\"From Our Kitchen to Your Table\\" section, where Bourdain confirms many of your worst fears about restaurant dining. Some things I took away from this chapter include the advice never to order fish on a Monday (it is most likely at its least fresh state, having been delivered the previous Thursday to cover the weekend orders), never order your meat well-done (you are pretty well insuring that the chef is going to treat you to the absolute worst cut, figuring you won't notice the difference since it will be dry anyway), and don't be so sure that the bread the waiter or busboy brings when you sit down went straight from the oven to your table (it likely was recycled from another table who didn't eat it). <br />Bourdain is an engaging writer with a great wit. I was rarely bored during my reading of &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot;. If, however, you are one who is easily offended by coarse language, consider yourself forewarned that this book has a lot of it. I personally wasn't offended by the language, but I did find myself occasionally annoyed when Bourdain would go overboard in describing what a wild and crazy lifestyle he's led.  Bourdain would often go on and on about all of the drugs he's done, how much he drinks and how tough and macho he acted in this situation or that situation. There is something inherently off-putting about someone constantly boasting about what a &quot;bad-boy&quot; he is. To Bourdain's credit, he can also be self-deprecating, particularly in the humorous story about how a dumb misunderstanding on his part during a job interview caused him to lose a great opportunity at an upscale steakhouse. Bourdain also devotes an entire chapter to a fellow, more successful, chef and explains the differences between the two of them that make this so. Overall, a very entertaining book that is easy to recommend.	2003-12-16
US	52589132	RU5BVFF63O210	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Addictive reading - A very fast 565 pages	It is difficult to not be impressed by the gargantuan task undertaken by this book's authors to complete lengthy, detailed interviews with what appears to be almost everyone who has ever had anything to do with \\"Saturday Night Live\\", including former cast members, writers, producers, musicians, network executives and even former guest stars. Equally impressive was how the authors edited these interviews to form a cohesive whole, keeping the book in chronological and thematic order. This is just about the fastest 565 pages I've ever read.<br />Particularly when detailing the show's creation through its first five years, the reader really gets a true sense of what the day to day process was of working on the show - from the immense amounts of cocaine used by all but a few to get through the all-night writing sessions, to the pre-AIDS era bed-hopping that was done between cast and crew members. The book provides more detail on some well known stories (most people know that John Belushi had a drug problem, but until reading this book I didn't understand the true depths of his addiction) as well as providing many surprises (I would have never pegged Harry Shearer as someone who was so universally despised during his time on the show nor did I realize how catty Nora Dunn and Jan Hooks were towards Victoria Jackson). <br />One of the fun aspects of reading \\"Live From New York\\" is hearing differing perspectives on the same story. For example, first you'll hear Janeane Garofalo discuss what a horrible working environment \\"SNL\\" was during her brief time on the show, followed by one of the show's writers explaining that Garofalo was something of an insecure nutjob who created her own bad experience. Likewise, you'll hear former producer Jean Doumanian described as \\"Ayatollah Doumanian\\" by those who worked for her during her tenure as executive producer, followed by Doumanian herself describe how she was set up to fail. Some people might get frustrated by the lack of an objective \\"truth\\" presented in some of these stories, but this seemed to me to be more true to real life, where often the \\"reality\\" of a situation is dependent on your own perspective. Also very interesting was reading about the perceived weaknesses in the current \\"SNL\\" program in the opinion of some of the writers, including an overreliance on sketches involving recurring characters, too many \\"surprise\\" appearances by celebrities who are being parodied (as in the real Robert DeNiro \\"surprising\\" a cast member who is doing a parody of Robert DeNiro), and a lack of political bite that once defined the show.<br />If I have anything negative to say about the book, it is only that the early sections, regarding the first few years of the show, spoil the reader in terms of the immense detail presented there that is missing in the sections dealing with the program's later years. In discussing the first few years of the show, the authors give great detail on how virtually every cast member came to be hired, what their history was before the show, how they got along with fellow cast and crew members, and whether or not the indulged in many of the bad habits that went on during the show. As the book gets to more recent casts, often the book would just mention that so and so and so and so joined the show, without much detail of how that came to be, instead choosing to focus on major controversies in the shows recent history, such as Nora Dunn walking off the show in protest of Andrew Dice Clay being invited to guest host, Sinead O'Connor tearing up a picture of the Pope on air, the deaths of Phil Hartman and Chris Farley, and NBC West Coast President Don Ohlmeyer's single-minded obsession with getting Norm McDonald fired from his \\"Weekend Update duties. If not for a sentence or two, you could go through the whole book without realizing that Dennis Miller was ever on the show. This is one of those rare books where, even at nearly 600 pages, the book seems too short. I would have gladlyread several hundred more if it meant that all periods of the show were given the same depth.	2003-11-17
US	52589132	R2SQAHU54L69HO	0451205456	632361792	Cold Steel Rain	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Just under four stars	\\"Cold Steel Rain\\" is a gripping thriller that is probably best read on a vacation, or any other period where large blocks of time can be dedicated to finishing the novel within a few days. This novel has so many characters, plots and sub-plots, that if, like me, you occasionally have to put the book down for a few days to deal with real life, by the time you pick it up again it is easy to have forgotten many plot details and characters.<br />The novel provides an excellent depiction of political corruption in Louisiana, where it appears almost everyone, from the Speaker of the House to local cops, are on the take. One of my favorite political scams as described in the book, involves Jimmy Boudrieux, the Speaker of the Louisiana House of Representatives calling for mandatory gun-safety classes as a requirement of handgun ownership. Seems like a concerned politician worried about the safety of his constituency, right? Turns out one of Boudrieux's political cronies is adding gun training classes as an additional profit center to his gun stores (stores Boudrieux is an investor in). <br />The primary plot of the novel centers around Danny Chaisson, a former idealistic attorney with the D.A.'s office, who was been reduced to little more than a courier of payoff money for Jimmy Boudrieux. When Danny appears to have lost his usefulness to the Speaker after being a witness to an extremely brutal restaurant murder, it looks like Boudreiuex and his associates may be ready to put Danny out to pasture.<br />One of the things that Abel does especially well in \\"Cold Steel Rain\\" is seamlessly slip in detailed biographies of most major characters in the novel, without letting this information interfere with the flow of the plot. If I had a major criticism of the novel, it would be that I simply thought it was maybe 100 pages or so too long. Whereas the first 2/3rds of the story threw off my regular sleep schedule because I couldn't bear to put the book down no matter how late it got, the final third or so was somewhat of a chore to labor through.  A good editing would have improved this novel greatly.<br />Another small, probably petty, complaint I had with the book was the authors overuse of italics. After awhile, italics were used so often that it almost seemed like an insult to the intelligence of the reader, as if the author didn't think his readers would otherwise understand what points or concepts were important to grasp. Also, when writing the internal dialogue of the novels black characters, the author, who isn't, chose to do so in slang, which I found to be somewhat annoying, and hardly believable. Similarly, I had to cringe when the author, a male, tried to write in the internal voice of the young, female ATF agent as she started to find herself sexually attracted to Danny Chaisson. Note to the author: Simply ending every sentence with \\"girl\\" does not make a character sound authentically feminine. Luckily, this is a pretty minor portion of the book.<br />The author appears to want this novel to work not only as a thriller, but also as a sort of social novel about the struggle of the black underclass. There's a subplot about a renegade community activist who tries to keep the young black men in his community from going down the path of gangs and guns. The author illustrates how cheap, illegal guns sold by white dealers can infiltrate a black neighborhood, while at the same time not taking away the personal responsibility of those who keep these dealers in business by buying and using their product. While occasionally a bit preachy in this area, it was definitely an eye opener.	2003-07-31
US	52589132	RM8E3KCIE1PAS	0380712040	477261936	Black Cherry Blues: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great writing, gripping story	Over and above anything else, the first thing that struck me about James Lee Burke's \\"Black Cherry Blues\\" was the quality of the writing. Burke has an incredibly ability to beautifully describe his settings, making small town Louisiana and rural Montana vividly real to the reader. His descriptions are so good that I would often have to suppress the urge to have a late night snack after having my appetite whet when reading about something so basic as what Dave and his daughter made for dinner. Take away the whole suspense/mystery/thriller aspects of this novel, and it would almost still be worth reading just for Burke's descriptive abilities.<br />The plot itself is the classic \\"innocent man falsely accused\\" story. Dave Robicheaux, who is trying to live a quiet, simple life running a boat dock/bait shop and raising his daughter in New Iberia, LA, begrudgingly helps out an old college friend who is involved with some unscrupulous individuals. This leads to a series of events involving ominous threats towards Dave's daughter, Alafair, and culminates in Robicheaux being accused of a murder he didn't commit. The majority of the book takes place after Robicheaux heads to Montana to attempt to clear his name before his trial begins.<br />Burke seems to take great care in formulating his plot to make sure all his bases are covered. One small thing he did in this book that I really appreciated was to actually attempt to logically explain some of those bizarre coincidences that happen so often in suspense novels that immediately take me out of the novel because they come off as so unrealistic. There is a scene in \\"Black Cherry Blues\\" that is reminiscent of many thrillers, where a character is a second of two from having a knife stabbed into his chest, but is saved when somebody \\"happens\\" to walk in just at the right time. Many authors just take if for granted the readers will actually buy this, when my usual reaction is \\"yeah, right\\". Burke, on the other hand, actually takesthis thriller cliche and gives a logical, believable explanation as to why this person knew to be where he was at exactly the right moment. This kind of care is taken throughout the book.<br />If I were to nitpick I would say that I was sometimes confused by Robicheaux's behavior, in that at times he seemed like someone who genuinely wanted to lead a peaceful life, and then would knowingly behave in a way that would get him into trouble with the wrong people. To be fair, if I had read the previous two Dave Robicheaux novels in the series (and after the quality of \\"Black Cherry Blues\\" I fully intend to) perhaps I would have had a better understanding of his character and personality.	2003-06-27
US	52589132	RFXD1VLQKR72S	0060083999	8490247	52 Pickup	Books	3	17	23	N	N	Fun novel that falls apart at the end	How does one go about judging a suspense novel? The easiest criteria is probably the level of difficulty you have in putting the book down because of how heavily you get hooked into the plot. By this standard, Elmore Leonard's '52 Pickup' was a great novel. I read the entire 300+ pages in two sittings, which could have easily been condensed into one had I not forced myself to put it down the first time knowing I needed something to read on a 4-hour flight the next day. Leonard writes great characters, even better dialogue, and creates a thrilling cat-and-mouse game where the hero and villains are constantly gaining and losing the upper hand against each other. Watching the hero of this novel, Harry Mitchell, struggle to balance running his successful business amidst the threat of a union slowdown, reconciling his marriage after confessing to his ill-advised affair, and dealing with three thugs who are trying to extort large sums of money from him, made for some very entertaining reading.<br />There is another standard for judging a suspense novel that I found '52 Pickup' wasn't as successful at, which is the level of believability. The problem I had with this novel was that for the ending to work required that the respective IQ's of the three main villains had to abruptly drop about 100 points each. I just found it odd that three guys who so expertly planned their crimes in the early portion of the novel would suddenly become so gullible later in the same book. I'm not saying that Mitchell's method of dealing with his extortionists was completely unrealistic, just that I thought everything sort of fell into place too easily. In particular, I found it hard to believe that a criminal as intelligent as Alan Raimy would have been so careless in the final scene of the book. Also, while Leonard wisely made Mitchell a former war hero to make his grace under pressure a bit more realistic, I did find it to be a bit much how he seemingly never felt fear, no matter how grave his situation became.	2003-06-10
US	52589132	RZF3XKYVW99DU	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great introduction to the author	I have been interested in reading Philip K. Dick for some time now, after realizing he was the original author behind two of my favorite science fiction films, \\"Total Recall\\" and \\"Minority Report\\". Not knowing where to start, I lucked out by picking up \\"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\\" on a whim. I will definitely be seeking out more Philip K. Dick novels in the future. \\"Flow My Tears...\\" is one of those great novels that works equally well on multiple levels. It is an exciting thriller, while at the same time working as both a haunting allegory of what could happen to our country if too many freedoms are lost, as well as being a fascinating treatise on the concepts of reality, identity and humanity.<br />One of the unintentionally funny aspects of this novel, which was originally published in 1974, is seeing how Dick envisioned the \\"future\\" of 1988, when the novel is set.  In Dick's 1988 all vehicles could fly and all phones were picturephones, yet LP's were still the standard format for producing music and the most popular show on television was a musical variety program.<br />Despite a few miscalculations about the future, it is actually amazing how well this novel stands the test of time. In today's America, as we continue to debate which, if any, civil liberties we are willing to sacrifice in the name of security, the police state of \\"Flow My Tears...\\" with forced labor camps, miniature nuclear devices that can be implanted on citizens and detonated at the whim of the police, and where innocent people can be framed and tried for crimes they had nothing to do with, this novel is surprisingly relevant nearly 30 years after its publish date.	2003-06-09
US	52589132	R3PN8W2GVZ9CW7	0446678694	809276320	Cons, Scams, and Grifts (Dka File Novel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very fun ride	Joe Gores does a tremendous job in \\"Cons, Scams & Grifts\\" of keeping the novel under control, a highly commendable achievement considering that the book has dozens of characters who play significant roles in the plot, as well as probably over a dozen separate storylines, most of which are interrelated in some way. The key storylines in the novel that all the others are spun off from are the repossession of 27 classic cars from a dealership who does everything it can to hide them, a Gypsy woman's apparent murder of her husband in Los Angeles, and the battle between an Italian zoo curator and a California millionaire for a rare orangutan <br />I understand that this novel is a sequel of sorts to \\"32 Cadillac's\\", which I've never read, using many of the same characters. To Gores' credit, he gives you enough backhistory so that those of us who haven't read \\"32 Cadillac's\\" are able to read \\"Cons, Scams & Grifts\\" without feeling lost. I would say about 90-95% of the time Gores was successful in keeping all of the various characters and storylines clear, and there really was only a handful of times when the various intersecting plots and characters got a bit fuzzy.<br />One of the strongest aspects of \\"Cons, Scams & Grifts\\" is the fact that Gores really was a private detective and repo man. Unlike many detective novels that pretty much require that you leave you brain and any sense of logic or reality at the door in order to enjoy them, the believability quotient seemed to me to be much higher in this novel than in similar books. I also enjoyed the obviously well researched insight into modern gypsy culture, which I really didn't know anything about previously. Half the fun of the book for me was reading a scene that I figured was being played straight, and then realizing later I had been conned myself (particularly the scenes with the overeager jewelery salesman whose free-spending customer and rare gem supplier are not exactly who they seem to be). Also, having grown upin the San Francisco Bay Area it was fun to see many familiar locations appear in the novel.	2002-06-24
US	52589132	R3FPSVU10TNKBB	0446604658	612130498	Lucky You	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Three & a half stars	\\"Lucky You\\" is one of those books that is very difficult to rate. For what it is, a light, humorous caper, it was very good. This being my first Carl Hiaasen novel, I can see why he is so popular. He successfully creates a pool of zany, memorable characters who are put in a variety of interesting, interrelated storylines that are funny and suspenseful. If a novel is judged on how quickly you read it because you are so anxious to see how everything turns out, this novel is deserving of high praise. I read most of this book in over 100 page increments.<br />I had one major criticism of \\"Lucky You\\" that prevented it, in my opinion, from reaching the four star level. The white supremacist militia members who beat up and steal JoLayne Lucks lottery ticket and set the plot in motion, were portrayed as extraordinarily dumb and ignorant. While Hiaasen was successful in making sure that these men had absolutely no redeeming qualities that would make them sympathetic to the reader, he was also successful in making sure that they were also completely unbelievable as characters. Hiaasen seems to either not understand, or more likely chose not to deal with the more complicated issue that sometimes people can be reasonably intelligent as well as evil and hateful all at once. I realize that this isn't really the type of book that one reads for deep philosophical ponderings on complex issues, but by making these guys just a bunch of bumbling idiots and thus vastly oversimplifying the issue of hate groups and their mindset, Hiaasen proved how unambitious this book really is. I enjoyed \\"Lucky You\\" a lot; I just wish Hiaasen would have at least made some sort of attempt to explore the more complex issue his novel brings up.	2002-06-19
US	52589132	R1JCAXZ8XD3KTK	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ignore the hype, enjoy the book	When a novel is published with the hype, publicity and media fanfare of \\"The Corrections\\" it seems to create an odd backlash. The book is rarely judged on its own merits, on whether of not it is simply a good, entertaining novel, but instead, judged on whether of not it is the greatest piece of literature ever created, an inherently unfair standard. There are probably a whole plethora of reasons as to why this is the case, from inflated expectations to the bizarre animosity many readers of \\"serious\\" fiction have with anything that becomes too popular or makes money. In other words, I would be willing to bet that had \\"The Corrections\\" been published without the immense fanfare, you would find its average Amazon.com user rating much higher, since people would be judging it on its own terms, instead of on whether or not it is deserving of its status as the \\"it\\" book of the time. <br />After finishing, \\"The Corrections\\", two things are for sure: Franzen is an excellent writer, equally adept at both humor and drama, and he also has a keen and observant eye for human behavior. Franzen's characters are some of the most three-dimensional characters to ever hit the page. Each character is so fully fleshed out that it is hard to believe they are fictional. Franzen doesn't just give you just a base level understanding of each character and then move on, instead you get even the most subtle details of each characters personality. You have the overbearing mother, who stubbornly refuses to face reality, the repressed, distant father rapidly losing control of his body and mind, to their grown children, all of whom, in their own way, have made a mess of their own lives in an attempt to \\"not be like their parents\\". While the topic of dysfunctional families if far from original, it is rare to see the subject dealt with in such an entertaining and authentic way, without stereotypical characters or a convoluted plot.<br />I had two criticisms of \\"The Corrections\\", having nothing to dowith the story itself, but more to do with the length and pacing of the book. Each primary character in the novel is given his or her own section, almost like a novel within a novel, which, while serving to give the reader a detailed understanding of each character, did get a bit tedious. The section where the parents, Alfred and Enid, are on a seniors cruise was so long and often boring that after awhile I was ready to jump overboard myself. That chapter easily could have been cut down by half. Also, while I appreciated that each character was given equal coverage in the book, I thought the novel would have flowed better had it been paced differently. Instead of separating each characters story into individual sections, I think it would have been wiser to have interspersed between the various characters throughout the book. Franzen could have kept all the same information in the novel, but made each section seem less exhausting. Another problem with dedicating an individual section of the novel to each character was it made it a bit hard to keep all of the various stories straight. For example, Chip, the character who is the focus of the novel's first section, doesn't return until several hundred pages later, so by the time he reappeared I had forgotten so much about his situation that I had to spend an annoyingly long amount of time going back to the first section of the book to refresh my memory. Outside of these two complaints, I thought \\"The Corrections\\" was a solid effort.	2002-05-28
US	52589132	R3E95CCB9K1AOV	0312284659	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say In America	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Agree or disagree, Elder will always make you think	Larry Elder is one of very few radio talk show hosts I'm able to stomach. What separates Elder apart from most of his counterparts is his opinions seem genuine. What makes Elder such a breath of fresh air is, agree with him or not, his opinions and ideas are not beholden to one particular political philosophy (though he does admit to being a Libertarian). He does far more \\"out of the box\\" thinking than virtual any talk show host I can think of. This is as opposed to talk show hosts of the Rush Limbaugh variety where too often it appears the host is just playing the role of \\"Conservative Talk Show Host\\" and just parroting the Republican party platform instead of giving his or her genuine feeling on an issue. While I disagree with Elder as often as I agree, I can honestly say that he has often made me rethink my opinions on various issues, and his ideas are always interesting and well thought out.<br />I found his book to be much like his show in that regard. I agreed with him on some issues, disagreed with him on others, but found it all thought provoking. In particular, Elder's chapter on health care presented some ideas so logical and sensical (like treating medicine like any other business with competition, honest price revelation, less stringent requirements for those who would like to practice more minor forms of medicine like broken bone setting) that I'm sure nothing will ever be done to implement it!<br />There were a handful of times that I was a bit disappointed in Elder. A couple of times he did the annoying trick so many people do when trying to promote a particular opinion, where he would either take the most extreme opposing opinion and use that to argue against, or sometimes he wouldn't tell the whole story on certain issues, leaving out those portions that hurt his argument. As one example, when discussing left-leaning media bias, Elder decries the media for so heavily scrutinizing the Promise Keepers when their entire purpose is just to take responsibility for themselves as fathers and husbands. Elder conveniently leaves out that the criticism was based on the alleged Promise Keeper philosophy that men should be leaders in the household and that women should take a subservient position. Elders larger claim, that the Promise Keepers were held to much higher scrutiny than the participants in the Million Man March, which was led by an alleged anti-Semite, still would have rung true had Elder had told the whole truth about the criticism of the Promise Keepers. There are a few of these types of distortions in the book.<br />Despite these criticisms, I would highly recommend this book to anyone, regardless of your particular political leanings. Not that this book is likely to turn you into a complete \\"Elderado\\", who agrees 100% of the time with Elder, but it will at minimum make you look at many hot-button issues in a new way.	2002-04-01
US	52589132	R2U89QSYAEFNHX	1573221937	319964836	How To Be Good	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another great, but different, Hornby novel	If for nothing else, Nick Hornby deserves a great deal of credit for not playing it safe. After becoming a literary superstar with \\"High Fidelity\\" and \\"About a Boy\\", Hornby very easily could have done the safe thing and churned out yet another book about the average 30-something male's inability to mature and face commitment. I doubt his publisher, agent, or anyone else with a financial stake in his success would have complained.<br />It is to Hornby's credit that he tried something different this time. The risk, of course, is that Hornby fans expecting the same high energy and consistent hilarity of his previous two novels are sure to be disappointed, not because the quality of \\"How To Be Good\\" is any lower than those other works, it is just very different. While \\"How To Be Good\\" has its share of laughs, it is altogether more serious and more philosophical than any of his previous fiction. All sorts of difficult and interesting questions are brought up in \\"How To Be Good\\", such as how do our actual selves differ from the ideal vision of ourselves that we have in our mind? How much of a responsibility to be charitable do any of us have? What defines a good person? Is it selfish to use extra money and resources for material pleasures instead of giving it to those who could use it for basic needs? Why is it that some people can be extremely charitable with strangers, but make a mess out of their own personal relationships? Is it wrong to sometimes have the feeling of not liking your spouse? Or your children?<br />No writer that I know of is better than Hornby at handing readers a mirror and forcing us to look at characters who are very much like ourselves. Until sitting down with a Hornby novel, you forget how rare it is to read about characters that face the same problems, have the same insecurities, the same guilt, the same fears that you and I do. In this novel, as always, Hornby creates characters who are filled with flaws, make wrong decisions, say the wrong things, but are still endearing, because they are simply making the same mistakes we all make from time to time.	2002-01-09
US	52589132	R319ICDNOR9A36	1553660854	4963254	Tributes: Remembering Some of the World's Greatest Wrestlers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great stories, but edited too heavily for length	As a long-time subscriber to Dave Meltzer's &quot;Wrestling Observer Newsletter&quot;, a slightly disappointing aspect of the book &quot;Tributes&quot; is the heavy editing for length that was done to the wrestler biographies as compared to how they originally appeared in the newsletter. For example, the Bruiser Brody biography, which is perhaps Meltzer's most famous, is edited down to a mere six pages of text. Something definitely gets lost in the translation. However, it is nice to have all of these biographies in book form so I no longer have to dig through my pile of over 10 years worth of newsletters to get to the articles I want. The addition of many rare photographs make it a great overall package. I really would have liked it if they would have put the complete biographies from the newsletter into the book, however, even in its edited form this is definitely a must have for any serious fan of pro wrestling.	2002-01-02
US	52589132	R1I4MM01HE47JQ	0060393009	59636792	Foley Is Good: And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Highly recommended if you are a wrestling fan	If you are a wrestling fan, and if you read and enjoyed Mick Foley's first book, \\"Have A Nice Day\\", chances are you will enjoy this book as well. If anything, \\"Foley is Good\\" seems like a supplement to the first book, updating readers on the two years or so worth of events that have occurred since the first book was published. <br />Personally, I found that I enjoyed the first book a little more, if only because that book covered a much larger timeframe and therefore is a more expansive story, while the second book covers such a brief timeframe in comparison that the story doesn't seem as complete. However, you will find the same humor and backstage insight that made the first book so entertaining, as well as Foley's interesting and well thought out opinions on various subjects facing the wrestling business today. Some of the chapters where Foley defends the WWF against its many critics are stronger than others - Foley's section on drugs in wrestling is rather shallow and his piece defending Vince McMahon comes off too much like it was written by the WWF PR department. However, Foley's obviously well-researched and powerful attack against both the Parents Television Council and the controversial Indiana University study of the effects of wrestling on children were fascinating. The tactics used by the PTC are downright scary, and reading about Foley's attempts to contact the PTC directly to debate them was both hilarious and frightening (let's just say the PTC representative Foley talks to is no less than completely gutless). Equally funny was his recollection of the conversation he had with the professor in charge of the Indiana University study, and finding out exactly how liberal the professor was in defining offensive behavior (a female wrestler touching a male wrestlers arm was considered a \\"sexual act\\").<br />To be honest, I've never bought the whole \\"you'll love this book even if you aren't a wrestling fan\\" comments that some readers have made about Foley's books. This isn't a knock on Foley at all, I just simply can't see how a several hundred-page book focusing primarily on the wrestling business is going to hold the attention of someone who isn't a fan. If you are a fan, though, I can guarantee that this book will A) make you laugh  B) provide interesting backstage stories and insights about events in and around the World Wrestling Federation post-1998 and C) open your eyes to the often less than ethical tactics of both  the media and extremist organizations.	2001-07-11
US	52589132	R34EO8HXM8FGZM	0316925195	200852558	Brief Interviews with Hideous Men	Books	3	96	109	N	N	Mostly good with a few exceptions	\\"Brief Interviews with Hideous Men\\" is the sort of collection that comes out only after an author has already achieved a reasonable amount of fame and success. It is a book where an author who has received critical praise for previous works can sell a book primarily on the value of his name, not necessarily on the quality of its contents. This isn't meant to imply this book is of no value or is even a bad book. In this reader's opinion, a good 70% of the stories in this work are worthy of publication. It is the other 30% or so that I question whether or not would be deemed deserving of publication if they didn't have David Foster Wallace's name attributed to them as the author.<br />The stories dealing with the self-absorption and egocentrism of our current therapy &amp; self-help-filled age are both hilarious and frightening. In \\"The Depressed Person\\" a woman gets so wrapped up in her own depression that she actually looks at a friend's bout with cancer as a benefit, assuming that her friend, now free from the burdens of having to work, has little better to do with the last months of her life than listen to the sob stories of the title character. Another story concerns a woman so worried about her own sexual ability that she actually is relieved to find out her husband is a porn addict, thinking it means her own fears of sexual inadequacy are unfounded. Sometimes, though, the jokes die out long before the story ends. Towards the end of the book there is a story about a father filled with resentment towards his son, due to the fact that having the son around caused the father to have to share the attention and affection of his wife. What starts off as a funny tale of selfishness and jealousy soon begins to resemble one of those bad \\"Saturday Night Live\\" sketches where the same \\"funny the first time you heard it\\" joke gets repeated over and over again ad nauseam.  . The title pieces, the  \\"Brief Interviews With Hideous Men\\", which are interspersed throughout the book, are the collections strongest. They provide an insightful look at misogyny and the distorted logic used by many men to justify their poor treatment and attitude towards women. Two men in these interviews, while acknowledging the rape is always undeserving, still try to argue that is can build character in the victim. One man rationalizes his bizarre and deviant sexual behavior by arguing that he never heavily pressures any woman to participate. One man brags to another how he was able to use a woman's fragile emotional state as a tool in his sexual conquest of her. I have to tip my hat to Wallace, he had me absolutely in stitches with the \\"Brief Interview\\" about a young man who goes insane after contemplating the drastic universal implications of his sexual fantasy (a fantasy involving the temporary stoppage of time, a la Samantha from \\"Bewitched\\").  <br />As a reader, I can deal with, and even enjoy some of Wallace's eccentricities (his constant, but almost always entertaining footnotes, his concluding one story with a plot outline for the remainder of the story instead of the ending itself). At times, though, you almost want Wallace's IQ to drop a few points, because he can occasionally get too clever for his own good. For the life of me, I couldn't tell you what the stories \\"Church Not Made with Hands\\" or \\"Tri-Stan: I Sold Sissee Nar to Ecko\\" are supposed to be about. I am willing to accept the possibility these stories were simply over my head, however, Wallace would be wise to realize that the quality of a story does not increase in direct proportion to how few people understand it. There is more than enough good stuff in this book to make it worth recommending, but I wouldn't worry too much about reading it all the way through.  The few stories that don't seem promising at the outset don't get any better as they go on.	2000-12-27
US	52589132	RLBT88XWCK1DK	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wow!	It is impressive enough, let's be honest, that a 24-year-old can have the maturity and diligence to complete a novel of any sort. But to complete one that is deep on so many levels, so funny, so pertinent to how we live today, balances so many different plotlines without ever losing control of any of them, speaks in so many different voices (from a conflicted Bengali Muslim to a hardcore animal rights activist to a 85-year-old Jehovah's Witness, and many others in between) without ever sounding less than authentic, is so rare that one almost considers it a miracle. <br />Forget all those, &quot;all white people are bad, everyone else is good&quot; multiculturalism books they made you read in college that were universally lame. This is by far the most pertinent book about mutliculturalism that I've ever read, because it is based on real life as it is currently lived, not on guilt for the sins of our ancestors. It is about the difficulty in staying true to ones roots, but at the same time being a part of the present and future. This novel goes so much deeper than that though, because ultimately, it is not just about culture as a whole, but about the individual. About the desperate need of the individual to feel that his or her existence is important. I hope I'm not making this book sound too serious. Zadie Smith has an incredibly hilarious writing style, that keeps you laughing and smiling even as the more important messages of the novel seep into your mind. This novel isn't perfect (what is?), some characters that we come to care about early in the book fade into secondary characters a bit too quickly (Clara, for example) and some of the novels morals are not quite as subtle as the author probably intends. Still, this novel is so good I can't bring myself to give is anything less than five stars. Not to get too strung up in hyperbole, but reading a novel like this, by such a young writer who one hopes will only get better with time, makes one feel more comfortable about the future of literature.	2000-12-15
US	52589132	R2OJSEA650LNS2	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	307	320	N	N	Far exceeded my expectations	&quot;The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay&quot; works on so many different levels. It has the thrills, action and pacing of a comic book, yet also has the beautiful language, fully developed, memorable characters, and moving, non-manipulative drama of the finest literary novel. It is rare to see excitement, sadness,  history, and humor mix so seamlessly together. I hesitate to write too much about the plot, because this is the type of novel where if you learn too much about the fate of the characters ahead of time, it will ruin much of the fun in letting yourself get absorbed in the suspense of the novel. There are so many things done right in this book that it seems like a disservice to not try to mention as much as I can about its qualities. Chabon is able to include in this novel the history and development of the comic book, Jewish mysticism, mid-20th century American culture, the Holocaust, US involvement in WWII, Houdiniesque escape and magic, all without ever letting this researched information interfere with the flow of the story. It is also rare to read a novel where the setting is so vividly created for the reader.  A large part of my enjoyment of the novel, aside from the story itself, was using Chabon's prose as a guide to transport me to New York during the middle portion of this century. This may be the one of the first enduring literary works of our new century.	2000-12-04
US	52589132	R1DKNMFQ0PP07E	0140244867	55568030	Small World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Even better than the original	How often does a sequel far surpass an original (particularly when the original was very, very good)? &quot;Small World&quot; has the same great humor that made &quot;Changing Places&quot; so fun to read, but is so much more ambitious, multi-layered, and introduces even more hilarious characters. The book at first seems intimidating because so many different characters and plotlines are introduced that it is easy to think the book will be hard to follow. It is to David Lodge's credit that this never happens. Each character and plotline is distinct and original enough that one never gets confused as to who is who and what is going on with each character.<br />As a former English major, I can vouch for the amount of pointless gobbledygook masquerading as intelligent discourse by many English professors. It is important to know, though, that one does not need to be a student of English Literature to fully appreciate &quot;Small World&quot;. The characters in this book, although primarily all English professors, can just as easily represent those overambitious people that can be found in any industry who are looking for the most amount of money and prestige, while having to do the least amount of actual work.	2000-11-08
US	52589132	R18ANM46HD9MCM	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Believe the hype	What a nice experience. Here is a book that has been so lauded by critics that by the time I got around to reading it, I was expecting to be at least somewhat disappointed, figuring there was no way it could live up to all the hype it has received. How nice to be wrong! Kent Haruf really hit the ball out of the park with this one. It is hard to argue with the ultimate moral of the novel, that in a too often unkind world, people can always find at least some semblance of happiness by being kind to one another and caring for others in their community. But the danger in writing a novel with a message like this is that it leaves open so many opportunities for oversentimentality and sappiness. Haruf miraculously was able to avoid both, while still remaining a highly optimistic, if also realistic (in realizing that bad people don't always change or go away) novel. The only small criticism I have of \\"Plainsong\\" is that some of the plot points, such as a high school teacher being pressured into passing a star athlete, were somewhat cliche (didn't I see an episode of \\"Eight is Enough\\" with that same plotline over 20 years ago?). This is a very small complaint though, as the strength of \\"Plainsong\\" is not the originality of particular plotlines, but in seeing the characters learn to be good to each other and create their own extended families. It has been a long time since I've read a novel that was so genuinely uplifting, without ever feeling the least bit cheesy or unrealistic.	2000-10-28
US	52589132	R142IU8NPO6FR8	042515954X	207304386	Bad Haircut: Stories of the Seventies	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Realistic capturing of adolescence	The stories in Tom Perrotta's \\"Bad Haircut\\" are deceptively simple. The subject matter of these stories is not exactly what you would consider earth-shatteringly original. Yet what makes these stories work so incredibly well are exactly those facts. I was extremely impressed at how well Perrotta was able to remember the mindset of the teenage years.  He hits on so many real truths about teenagers: they way teens tend to overdramatize small events, the way otherwise nice teenagers can behave poorly due to peer pressure, the disappointment of early sexual experiences, the way early childhood dreams tend to creep into a more mundane reality, loneliness, and the realization that adults are not flawless. There were so many times in reading this book where I would be simply amazed at how right-on Perrotta was in describing an experience I went through, or a feeling I had back not all that long ago when I was a teenager myself. Because when people get older there is a tendency to laugh at the stupid things they did or thought when they were younger, sometimes in writing about teens, writers forget one of the key elements of adolescence, which is the fact that the things you laugh at taking seriously when you get older, were things that seemed legitimately important when you were younger. Because of this, oftentimes in books, TV shows, or movies about teens there is a tendency to get too overly nostalgic about the teen years and forget how during that time of your life, sometimes just getting through another day seems like a struggle.  Or alternatively, it seems too many writers think that the day-to-day drama that teens create in the course of their daily lives isn't \\"dramatic\\" enough to be interesting, so instead the teenagers in many books, TV shows, or movies go through a series of contrived dramas where they act like grown-ups in kids bodies. Perrotta is able to avoid both of these pratfalls by portraying the teens years for pretty much what they are - a process of slowly growing up, experiencing new things, and coming to view the world in more realistic terms than one may have in childhood.	2000-10-14
US	52589132	R2356Q69YKQ32L	0060956739	580597952	Continental Drift	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This book will shake you up - Immensely powerful!	This is an almost perfectly crafted book. With the exception of maybe one or two scenes that were slightly confusing, this is one of those extremely rare books where after finishing it, there is nothing that I can think of that would have improved it. The story of Bob Dubois is such a prototypical American story that it is hard, though he is far from what would be considered a \\"heroic\\" character, to not relate to him on at least some level. Although this novel was written 15 years ago, in the current age of the dot.com millionaire, if anything, the themes of the novel seem even more relevant today than when it was first published. Banks is able to capture perfectly the frustration, jealousy, and sense of unfairness than many in the lower and middle classes feel, knowing that as they struggle just to keep their head above water financially, there are those around them,  who are  not even necessarily any smarter than themselves, who have nonetheless been able to amass great amounts of wealth. <br />It is hard to get through this book without having the feeling of being grabbed by your throat and shaken. The drama in this book is so powerful because it never feels contrived. Though the book does contain its share of bizarre coincidences, there is never a point where the drama feels less than authentic. For just about every story we hear where someone went from having nothing to starting up their own Internet company and becoming an instant millionaire, there is also the story we don't hear about, the person just wise enough to know that life should have more to offer than just struggling though to make ends meet, but just naïve enough to not get in over their heads trying to attain the better life they dream about.  It is this second story that is so brilliantly brought to life in \\"Continental Drift\\".	2000-10-12
US	52589132	R3E9U9ERAILJO1	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good suspense novel, but not without its faults	What first impressed me about \\"Red Light\\", my first T. Jefferson Parker novel, was the depth of his characters. My usual hesitation in reading suspense/detective novels is that the main characters have a tendency to be mere one-dimensional stick figures, who serve no purpose in the novel except to move the plot along. Not so with this novel. Mr. Parker takes great care to fully bring these detectives/policemen to life, and makes them seem like real people with real problems. They have an existence outside of their work, which is something that cannot be said of the characters in many novels of this type.<br />As far as a suspense novel goes, this had about all you could ask for in terms of keeping you guessing as to who the killer was. I have to admit, during much of the middle portion of the novel, I felt like the author had insulted my intelligence since he was making it totally obvious who the \\"real\\" killer was going to turn out to be. Of course, it turned out I was 100% wrong, which is fun, and even better,  Parker surprises us while still playing fair.  Parker is able to make the identity of the killer a surprise, while still keeping with the logic of the story, so it still makes sense with regards to everything we've read already.<br />Then there are the bad parts. The first negative thing that stuck out for me was how poorly T. Jefferson Parker writes dialogue. Not having read any of his other works, I don't know if this is a common problem for him, or if he just had an off-novel this time out. The dialogue in the police interrogation scenes sounds like it came out of some bad B-cop movie from the 50's. The regular dialogue was even worse. No one that I have ever met actually talks as formally as the characters in this novel do. Instead of sounding like they are having  conversations, it too often sounds like they're making a speech.<br />Major points also had to be taken away because of the handling of the novel's climax. While trying my best not to give toomuch away, this novel contains one of the oldest suspense/thriller cliches in the book:   \\"The Fallacy of the Talking Killer\\" (credit to Roger Ebert), in which the villain has the perfect opportunity to kill the protagonist, but chooses instead to explain to him or her, detail by detail, exactly how he was able to fool him or her and get away with his crimes for so long. I would hope that a writer as respected in this genre as Mr. Parker could come up with something a little more original than that.	2000-09-26
US	52589132	R2243OQREQEJM	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	252	269	N	N	Want to laugh--buy it. Don't want to laugh--don't	I have to admit I was a bit hesitant to read this book. My feeling was that this was just a cheap attempt to capitalize on the success of &quot;Naked&quot;, and to write a book that was essentially exactly the  same. I'm happy to report that my fears were unfounded. <br />Sedaris again  proves he is perhaps the funniest writer in America. The best pieces in  here are funny to the point that I almost needed an oxygen tank to restore  normal breathing after laughing so hard for so long. In fact, the funniest  pieces are so good that when you get to a story that merely makes you  chuckle softly to yourself, it seems like a let-down.<br />The most  consistently hilarious stories in &quot;Me Talk Pretty One Day&quot; are  the ones dealing with the odd idiosyncrosies of Sedaris' father. However,  by far the funniest story of the bunch had to be &quot;You Can't Kill the  Rooster&quot;, about Sedaris' foul-mouthed, white trash younger  brother.<br />Admittedly, I started to get somewhat disappointed about halfway  through the book, as that is where a few stories that can be best described  as &quot;filler&quot; seemed to seep in. But I am happy to report that at  that point the book quickly moves to the stories detailing Sedaris'  experience of living in France, and the hilarity starts all over again.  Recommending this is simple...if you like to laugh, read it, if you hate  laughing, don't read it.	2000-07-09
US	52589132	R1Y8XHUFIK9R7S	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting subject, not as interesting in execution	I had trouble deciding whether to give this novel 3 or 4 stars (they need give a  star option on here!). The novel brings up many interesting subjects, such as race, identity, extreme political correctness, and the  tendency of many people to use moral righteousness as a weapon in bringing  down those they don't like for more petty reasons. These issues were all  dealt with in a fair and intelligent manner. In fact, having attended a  very liberal university myself, many of the situations in this novel, such  as a student claiming a class text is &quot;sexist&quot; to avoid having to  struggle though it, and the tendency of many in academia to jump on any  comment, word, or statement that could possibly be construed as politically  incorrect, regardless of its context, came off as frighteningly realistic.  Unfortunately, the ideas that are brought up are actually more interesting  to think about in theory than as they are presented in the book. The  biggest problem, as an earlier reviewer noted, is that too much of the  story is TOLD vs. being SHOWN. In fact, the most major event in the novel,  Coleman Silk uttering the word &quot;spooks&quot; in his classroom and the  subsequent commotion it causes, is really just kind of briefly mentioned in  passing as having happened.  This is not to take anything away from Roth's  skill as a writer; his prose is beautiful and flowing as always. However,  actually seeing some of the novel's events in action as opposed to simply  being told by the narrator that they happened would have made the novel a  lot more interesting to read. Also, I found the character of Les Farley to  be too much of a caricature. It seemed like Roth took all the stereotypes  of a deranged Vietnam vet and threw all those characteristics onto one  character. I also had trouble with the Delphine Roux character. I  appreciated the fact that Roth tried to add depth to her as the novel went  on, after initially having her come off as one-dimensional. However, I  found her motivations for wanting to bring down Coleman Silk vague at best  and silly at worst. &quot;The Human Stain&quot; is worth reading for the  bold statements Roth is gutsy enough to make about our culture, but he  could have addressed them in a more engaging way	2000-06-02
US	52589132	R16RL0VJNJQ05Y	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Starts off strong, then loses steam	Reading this book, I felt like a teacher who receives an essay from a student who is obviously very gifted and intelligent, but still has to give him or her a &quot;C&quot; because they didn't follow the assignment well.  Eggers is obviously a very good writer with great wit and creativity.  However, after starting off strong, I found myself really struggling to get  through the latter 2/3rds of the book. I know some will accuse me of being  some kind of conformist slime for suggesting this, but I think that Eggers  could have written a stronger work by focusing more specifically on the  story of raising his younger brother after his parents death and less on a  variety of different topics from his friends, his work, his love life, etc.  Part of the problem is that none of Eggers friends are ever really  described well enough to know one from the other (with the exception of one  of two) so that a name could come up consistently throughout the book and I  still didn't remember anything about him or her to differentiate from  anyone else. That being the case, the latter 2/3rds of the book would  probably be interesting if you actually knew these people personally and  didn't need further description, however for those of us without this  luxury, it was kind of like being on the outside of an inside joke. <br />I  admired that Eggers could write about a topic as tragic as the death of his  parents so close to one another without relying on cheap sentimentality.  And Eggers has a terrific sense of humor that really comes across in his  writing. I admired his writing skills enough that I look forward to reading  more of his work in the future. However, I definitely wish I had taken the  author's own advice on this book and quit after the first three or four  chapters when the book started meandering in too many different directions.	2000-05-14
US	52589132	R3ID231ZUOSZB2	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	5	9	14	N	N	A quintessential Vonnegut work, one of his best	I wish I didn't have to give a star rating to this novel. It just seems a bit presumptuous to put a subjective star rating on a novel that answers the question of the meaning of human existence! Seriously, this is a  terrific book, and it was interesting to see that even this early in his  career Vonnegut was already a master practitioner of the English language.  Vonnegut's gift is the ability to take a novel that on its own,  irregardless of the various ideas and deeper layers of meaning contained in  the work, is extremely entertaining, contains many plot twists, suprises,  interesting characters, and hilarious wit. Yet, the book also is a  fascinating philosophical novel about a subject no less grand than the  meaning of all human existence. Vonnegut is such an amazing writer in the  sense that unlike some authors, he can write a novel of ideas that is still  entertaining to those who don't have the patience for more  &quot;highbrow&quot; literature, yet alternatively, he can write a  entertaining, easy to read/follow novel that doesn't insult the  intelligence of a more highbrow audience who are looking for something  deeper that just a basic plot-focused book. I hate to sound like a blurb on  the back of a novel, but if you were to read just one Vonnegut novel that  epitomizes his writing style, this is the one I would recommend.	2000-04-11
US	52589132	R3OU4ILXIP4EDP	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Brilliantly shows how events beyond our control shape us	I have to admit, I am one of those people who often looks at people who are tremendously successful in various areas of their lives and think to myself how nice it must be to have all the fortune that those people have.  In this novel, Philip Roth illustrates how truly little control we have  over our destiny, how events that we are incapable of controlling can  profoundly effect us, no matter how good or honorable a life we try to  lead. Seymour Levov, the main character in this novel, starts off as one of  those ultra-fortunate individuals, who is the object of envy to many, but  has his life completely shattered because of circumstances he couldn't  control or forsee. What impressed me most about this novel was how  well-developed not only the main characters were, but also the care that  Roth took to fully develop even the most minor of characters, so that we  really get a sense of each characters personality, motivation, and  perception of the world. I took one star away because some of the middle  portions of the novel I found rather slow. Some of this slow portion was  probably neccessary to make the novel as richly detailed as it was and to  fully develop the characters. Some portions however, particularly the  immensely detailed description of the glove manufacturing process, did  little to add to the novel except to prove that the author did a lot of  research, none of which makes for very interesting reading unless you  happen to be planning on starting your own glove factory. The novel is  definitely good enough to make these occasional dull moments worth  stuggling through, though.	2000-03-14
US	52589132	RTB7UK1U2VXX5	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very entertaining, hard to put dowon	Most people, at some point or another, think that their own lives would provide great material for a book. Usually this turns out not to be the case, but David Sedaris proves to be the exception with this highly  entertaining, often hilarious book. Some essays were definitely more  entertaining than others, but all are worth reading. Highly recommended.	1999-03-01
US	52589132	R8RZ8LASA21BR	0679756450	310711579	Portnoy's Complaint	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Honest, hilarious,and poignant	This book is highly deserving of its reputation as a classic of 20th Century Jewish literature. Though I'm sure as many people were offended by it as were entertained, that only proves Roth's honesty and bravery in  writing it in the manner he did. Nothing is sugar-coated in here. This  novel will make you laugh like very few things can, but will also make you  think seriously about the difficulty in balancing ones altruistic impulses  with ones selfish, animalistic desires.	1999-02-23
US	52589132	R2BUU17D25R4YO	0028623959	578780469	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Pro Wrestling	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Not very insightful	I thought this book would be an interesting read about one of my favorite hobbies, but I was mistaken. There is nothing particularly enlightening in here...basically anyone who has ever watched wrestling once or twice will  know the majority of information that is given in the book. I mean, I know  it is called the &quot;Idiots&quot; guide, but I guess I didn't realize  that the authors took it so literally. I thought that the biographies of  wrestlers past and present would be interesting, but they too were just  superficial sketches. I also found a number of factual errors in the book,  which took away from its credibility. I like the idea of this book in  theory, and it is nice to see a book such as this being sold in the  mainstream, but I didn't like the way it actually turned out. Hopefully  someone will try a similar concept but do it better.	1999-02-17
US	52589132	R1DI3WQMIFBLDF	0385021747	65629381	In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great book for those who want to relive childhood	Like many other reviewers, my first taste of Jean Sheperd came from seeing the film &quot;A Christmas Story&quot;, and anyone who has seen that film will find many of these stories instantly recognizable. Although my  childhood was a lot more recent than the situations in this book describe,  this book nonetheless brought me back to those far more innocent days of  youth. This book is very funny, and Sheperd's ability to describe scenes  and situations is excellent. In fact, the set-up of these stories is often  far more entertaining than the pay-off, which generally is something  blowing up or some riot occuring. The greatest part of this book for me was  the general description of the Christmas season, the 4th of July fireworks,  the annual Thanksgiving Day Parade, the corny movie promotions, etc. It  sounds cliche, but he really does put you right there and make you feel  like you are actually experiencing all of these things.<br />The only flaw in  the book were the interludes. This book is made up primarily of a bunch of  different stories which are not really interconnected with each other. To  make this work as a &quot;novel&quot; Sheperd sets up scenes in the  &quot;present&quot; tense that involve the main character (Ralph)  reminiscing about old times with his childhood pal, Flick. All of these  scenes have a very forced quality about them, and the dialogue sounds  unnatural since it exists merely to segue from one story to the next. I  probably would have given the book 5 stars if it was just a book of stories  without the awkward interludes.	1999-01-22
US	52589132	RQ9NMVGKIBBQH	0684874350	698161422	Angela's Ashes (The Frank McCourt Memoirs)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Flawless	What a wonderful book. No one has ever written about poverty in quite this way. What is so powerful is how vividly the McCourt's living conditions is portrayed without ever resorting to self-pity. How lucky for us readers  that Frank McCourt was able to escape his condition and grow up to write  about his youth and coming-of-age with such intelligence, humor, clarity,   and forgiveness. I will not soon forget any of the characters of this  exceptional memoir.	1999-01-06
