US	52586539	RBSV0US9EKUP0	0060732482	985592590	Symptoms of Withdrawal: A Memoir of Snapshots and Redemption	Books	5	16	19	N	N	No pretense, written with deep honesty and humility and grace (and chuckles)	We give the unvarnished truth short shrift in our hold-it-together world; Chris reveals a common vulnerability we all share. How does he manage to tell the emotional truth, spill the beans, and still reflect upon his extended family members with appreciation, pride and fairness? (I found overall that this book is a paean to Senator Ted Kennedy who with humor and service keeps the legacy flickering) This reader has never been a Kennedy clan fan... \\"Whatever\\" is my response to hearing about their doings - I even have to admit rushing through Chris' narratives when it came to all those football games and rowing and various sports at gatherings. <br />    What's the motive behind all this activity? Worthiness. All of us humans feel the need to prove ourselves worthy of this \\"gift\\" of life- how about when life gives you a movie star absent dad and a glamorous famous Mum with her own brand of white knuckle clenched teeth Irish steel will - the stuff that is necessary to \\"survive\\"? Chris meets the nexus point that practically guaranteed  dramatic addiction- the psychedelic sixties and seventies at  prep school -privledged, terrified- with access to hard drugs that are like candy to a 13 year old. With a genesis like this I am surprised that his active phase was a short as it was.The miracle that is brought about in surrender is a really graceful tale.I found the book exciting and perceptive from many angles, but I truly appreciated because it was his own- truth telling at it's best. Perhaps the next books will be anecdotal about life in hollywood , detailing what it is like to live in such a superficial ego driven war zone... I loved reading the few tid-bits that were included in this book. As well, Chris could write about living with sobriety one day at a time- the point is- he could , but let's leave should out of the picture- like he says at the end, LTFU.	2005-10-02
US	52586539	R2BCQC2TM897PZ	1887472037	162114666	Miracle of Names	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Clayne makes the ineffable fun and easy !	A little knowledge is truly a dangerous thing, isn't it? This book is a great \\"starter\\" kit to any seeker who wants more insight into the numerological character of their first name. Even if your birth name is not listed at the front of the chapter, there is an easy to follow number chart that you can use to determine the three number sequence, the key to determining a major aspect of your character- or way of being in the world. I was lucky enough to find this book years ago and kept it in my library for reference; I thought that was it.  <br />   Just recently I pulled out the book and contacted Clayne at his website address [...] - for a full birth date and name reading.I had a ball and started a new quest for myself- to learn maybe a little bit more about this curious and profound phenomenon.This reading was one of the best values of any purchase that I have made over the years; Clayne truly is a world class expert in the field.Get yours now before he gets to busy to see new clients!	2005-09-26
US	52586539	R3I0OVOV0TP5V0	0887309348	584359848	Live Rich: Everything You Need to Know To Be Your Own Boss	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant truthful and filled with good advice	Love this guy- he tells it like it is. When charismatic company ceos tell us that the corporate experience is not about money, it's about \\"Love\\" ; one needs authors like Mark Pollan more than ever . When some VPs are receiving hefty paychecks- is their experience of love sweeter than my own I wonder? It's the individual employees responsibility to get the \\"love\\" they deserve..We all use a different yardstick to measure value - and this author points out a standard that should be at the top of the list- hint : it's green  We live in a hypocritical world folks - at least this author tells the truth.     Another thing I loved about the book was the aknowledgement that despite diversity training, age discrimination is widely practiced- take those dates off your resumes the Author advises. Brilliant , I intend to read his entire repetoire	2005-09-17
US	52586539	RLYMVXUGYPZZU	0312354991	304363695	Diana--The Last Word	Books	4	14	20	N	N	An unexpected can't put downer -intimate	When I heard the hub bub in the media about this ; what I perceived to be, gossipy tome, I was turned off. However, I sat down with it in a bookstore and realized that I needed to bring it home and read every \\"scene\\" I like many was turned off by the somewhat salacious opener- Di made a confession that she was seduced animalistically by the dashing member of America's royalty, young JFK junior, in a hotel room. I find it credible that Diana told this story to the author, but there is no other reason to insert this story at the beginning of the book ( outside of chronology) than to sensationalize this aberration to seduce the reader. It brings down the rest of the book just slightly in terms of sensitivity.<br /><br />  That minor critisism aside, I found the psychic healer author rather practical and down to earth, and admired her tell it like it is approach. I am sure that Diana did not have many friends who were not yes-men, sycophants and obsessive idolizers. Therefore, I sense that much of the stuff in the book is true and gives insight to the one Icon we know as Lady Di.<br /><br />  Nothing in this book murmers that the car \\"accident\\" was planned, yet I couldn't find a reference to the word accident, either. This author also confirms my belief that Diana and Dodi were not to wed, he was a playboy and a drug user sadly; lazy but sweet, certainly not what Diana would choose for a mate for long term.<br /><br />  I had a remarkably good time with this book, I would recommend it to Diana fans.	2005-09-11
US	52586539	R2VZ58N21NJSTY	0786007001	731788678	The Murder of Princess Diana	Books	4	51	57	N	N	A gutsy "tabloid" examination	Though I don't agree with some major points in the premises laid out, I wanted to commend the author for putting out the murder stance in a backed-up logical way. It is a sham to not acknowledge that Diana was revered by many but to a small faction she was a MAJOR nuisance.  <br />   I don't think that Diana was pregnant OR planning to marry Dodi. I agree that Diana wanted revenge for the humiliation that she suffered- and she could do this by her \\"scene stealing humanitarianism\\".. But to think that she would get engaged to a playboy who had broken up with his fiance a few weeks prior- , who had drug problems and a checkered past? No way. Dodi's father has plenty of reason to espouse this theory because he was the engineer who set up this friendship in the first place. Look at the pictures of Diana on the Jonikal- she is not gayly hypnotised by the festivities- she looks like she's killling time.There were plenty of dynasties that Diana could have hooked up with- she didn't need Dodi's hand to legitimize her. It's just not believable. <br />    That said, the rest of the theories ring true; the supposed drunk driver- Henri paul was on the MI5 payroll, and he was a light drinker who had NO signs of drunkedness- watch the tape. Yet his blood alcohol test says that his blood alcohol level was 3X over the limit- oh and yes contained carbon monoxide- indicative of a suicide- somebody simply switched the blood tests with another guy at the morgue that night.Additionally, the blueprint of the \\"murder crash plan\\" was outlined to others at another time, it is acknowledged in the dark force circles that making a car crash look like an accident is a very effective assasination method.The road that the death car traveled on- has numerous cameras poised on it- are we to believe that evry single security camera was off that night? P'shaw. Also, why did Henri Paul take that roundabout route , why were the security proedures in place discarded at the last minute- after Henri Paul had a little tete-a-tete at the Ritz with Dodi?  ( at around eleven, after Dodi and Diana had enjoyed some wine with dinner- I think between the two of them they just didn't smell the rat that was there. )	2005-09-01
US	52586539	RBRJN1YXJR9HL	1585423963	771144482	Like a Lampshade in a Whorehouse	Books	3	9	19	N	N	Trying to keep my focus on "the product"	Obviously some people found this life tale engaging-but I found it super disturbing that this woman who is held up as a feminist rodney dangerfield allowed herself to continue in a martyrd wife situation that evokes feudal situations- think Hedda Gabler's time. This was the 20th century and I realize that the feminine Mystique only came out in the sixties-Yet.. Ms diller used the principles in the book The Magic of Believing- which helped her to hone her creation skills to masterfully build her career-while at the same time she is living for decades with an abusive dim witted drunken rapist lowlife who doesn't work. Years, ok- but decades? PULEAZE! The whole thing is so bizarre and it's never explained to any satisfaction- THEN husband number 2 is another nasty jealous  acoholic who happens to be gay.Yuk- this relationship has a pretty long life as well.At the same time she has a whole house full of kids that she manages to \\"take care of\\" , then later in life they all meet some tradgedy or another or are mentally unstable to say the least!!I don't feel like I am getting an authentic character sketch of anyone in this family, except maybe Phyllis' Mom and Dad; the early years are covered pretty well.My hat is off to Phyllis for her honesty and her ambition, and for her long well deserved career-but the price she has to pay for all these \\"gags\\" is way too high.	2005-08-23
US	52586539	R1VEG6CMA6GEWR	1400041244	553432125	Better Than Sane: Tales from a Dangling Girl	Books	3	5	6	N	N	I'm in the middle , clearly controversy means something!	I usually only review books that I absolutely love- but in this case I wanted to read this tome in one night and be done with it... Alison has a beautiful and sometimes seductive and brilliant way of stringing thoughts together- an idiosyncratic way of descriptive device. Five stars for individuality and fine form.  <br />     The issue that I think most detractors have is the content and viewpoint of this clearly unfeminist female who in current jargon \\"gave all of her power away\\" to captivating and famous intellectuals - and I agree it's unclear the extent of the physical affairs that she was having - although there was plenty of mind games and heady flirtation and this was the food of her life- approval from men .So, if it's not your bag then you probably won't like the book-The men seem pompous smug and peurile to me, but I wasn't there. Everyone has their own life to live and Alison Rose shouldn't be judged to harshly for her choices. Certainly the game was a two way street and these New yorker men loved having their err egos stroked.To readers I say \\"try it , you might like it, and if not then she's just not your cuppa. \\"	2005-07-24
US	52586539	RE534MUD7GV57	0786713305	216709309	When Corruption Was King: How I Helped the Mob Rule Chicago, Then Brought the Outfit Down	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thrilling true tale by Cooley , kudos to his co-writer Levin	I needed to give a thumbs up as well to the always under praised co-writer, because without this great match the book would be a lesser gem. The story is told in an intimate first person narrative- that narrator being Robert Cooley , and the reader hears his voice clearly ringing throughout, it never sounds contrived.  <br />   What a story- and I have to disagree with some reviewers who may think that the book doesn't clearly spell out the danger and self sacrifice that Cooley engineered so that others would benefit... He's one in a million; but the steps leading up to his \\"redemption\\" are clearly defined.As well, the human imperative of \\"what's in it for me\\" is practiced amongst all echelons, including the FBI, district attorneys- politicians, et al- even the \\"clean\\" ones. <br />    A real eye opener for beginners in this genre , and confirmation for those of us who are already hardened to the truth of the \\"American injustice \\" system. This is a page turner par excellent.	2005-07-24
US	52586539	R3MWOCEHK3XBX8	0751529753	707445732	Gangster's Moll: Living with a Life of CrimeFrom the Great Train Robbery to 'Mad' Frankie Fraser	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A nice "little bit" of true crime	This book delivers what it promises... a birds eye view from the vantage point of a true wiseguy's moll. Perhaps we can forgive Marilyn her rough edges and ragged opportunism because her british South london peigree gives lends her a more mysterious air than say.. Victoria Gotti's ilk.Apparently in Britain the \\"great train Robbery\\" hads all of the fame and cachet as say, the Brinks robbery or the French Connection case on these shores.The perpetrator- tha authors father.She's not too deep and none too modest and apologetic, which is refreshing- she isnt trying to whitewash her past and appear to be legimate and classy - that's a breath of fresh air. However, this is one of the books that you want to read fast and then throw out, you're not going to find any insight or wise adages from this riffraff - just an old criminal broad's tale.	2005-07-05
US	52586539	R38EVTUALUV0T1	1595550003	274798904	King Of Cons: Exposing The Dirty Rotten Secrets Of The Washington Elite And Hollywood Celebrities	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A page turning blast! A beach read or one nighter	There is something perverse about forgiving Aaron Tonken his stupidity because he dishes out honesty; after being pimped for so long by so many all cut from the same cloth.Birds of a feather do flock together pal! You just have to be sympathethic to the author because he really wasn't in it for the money- he wanted the approval of the glitteratti.Chapter after chapter he does the same thing, starting small and moving up the ladder.No matter the rung the story is always the same, ego driven behavior fuels monkey see monkey do greed and a sense of entitlement.This book is a riot, and so badly needed now that the last bastion of tabloids- the National Enquirer- has joined the star-pucker bandwagon and chooses to befriend the celebrities in the hope that something good will rub off on them- or that the favors will be returned.  <br />   Read the book though and note the genuine , compassionate and refined minority that Aaron does have dealings with , including The Reagans, Englebert Humperdink, Red Buttons,Charlton Heston,and some other less than household names. Have some fun and read the book- <br />	2005-07-01
US	52586539	R2CA80LXIBUW6S	0312324138	248015285	Breathing Out	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Sincere writing: clarity, questioning and insight is given	Peggy is so intense; I give her two thumbs up for her revealing and honest telling of her life's story thus far. I couldn't put the book down, and I thought the writing was smooth, not chunky.( BTW, the book was written with two excellent professional authors who craft together the story seamlessly) I think it's unfair to characterise the book as a salacious kiss and tell. Although Peggy is upfront about her adventures and sexual shenanigans, against the backdrop of the swinging sixties and with the authors avowal of the horrific abuse scenario; her \\"sins\\" seem minimal.Once Peggy meets up with Quincy her 14 year relationship seems like halcyon as she finds security and safety for a time in her marriage and experience of motherhood.For the record, noting the booklist review- I don't think Peggy intimates that she \\"slept\\" with Sammy Davis Jr- in fact that story is carefully told- she ends up agreeing to a long sailing vacation cruise and is taken along as the sexy cargo free-gift-with purchase- Sammy's \\"date\\"... Eventually before they set sail, she is \\"rescued\\" from this scenario and this reader was relieved that Peggy was able to mollify Sammy Davis jr enough to escape a full blown ego fueled tirade because the \\"chick walked\\" , inventing some saving face plot.<br />  I loved hearing about how satisfying working on Mod Squad was for the trio, this WAS ground breaking television, and Peggy did a beautiful job.The Guru encounters were oh so telling and I will reserve my judgements about this relationship; I want to applaud Peggy was carefully telling it like it is ; and was- and not just pretending to write a superficial memoir name dropping hollywood bio. The tender balance between candor and discretion is carefully maintained and the story was respectful to Peggy's family and friends- this book was a pleasure, and worth waiting for.	2005-06-27
US	52586539	RORH6WWNATBLZ	1592400973	863542524	The Love Spell: An Erotic Memoir of Spiritual Awakening	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Enticing tale leaves the reader spellbound	I know that's a cheesy review title but I couldn't help myself since I seem to be the first reviewer. Why is this? C'mon girls- put your reviewer headcaps on and get to it. This modern timely tale is much closer to reality than say, a Bridget Jones or Nanny stories - at least to this conjuror .Very insightful memoir about relationships and love- and marriage and what else... Simply Witchcraft! A great beach read ;you will walk away with some knowledge.	2005-06-17
US	52586539	R2J8KM2Z905GTP	1575253496	120275005	Hiding in Plain Sight: The Incredible True Story of a German-Jewish Teenager's Struggle to Survive in Nazi-Occupied Poland	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Comprehensive, detailed epic journey	Magnificent attenton to detail and an almost photographic like narrative characterise this Un-run of the mill Holocaust memoir. The author Betty is a modest teenager who is bold while being matter of fact and subtle- and she is able to convey with great nuance what is felt like to navigate the Nazi oocupied Poland during the height of the madness as a teenager .This lengthy memoir, a tale of youthful triumph against such huge odds, is satisfying and keeps the reader on the edge of one's seat.	2005-04-22
US	52586539	R51N5HE0WZHTU	0385245300	135972287	Long Time Gone: The Autobiography of David Crosby	Books	5	0	3	N	N	For high contrast bio lovers- this won't dissapoint	Crosby is the ulimate rock and roll rebel; with more lives and second chances than any other human , ever. Is it his constitution, luck, or just plain talent that saw him through the rough patches ? David would probably say \\"talent\\" since through it all he remains his own biggest fan; but who is the reader to argue, since the book contains many, many testimonials from other cool cats that just make David Crosby appear oh- so likeable, and did I mention, brilliant?  ( Although law enforcement would definetly disagree, for many years, David Crosby was an absolute menance to society- armed and dangerous)     As a CSN fan , I am a little prejudiced, as a regular reader of celebrity bios, I have to rate this pretty far up on the scale- lots of drama, loads of contrast, plenty of insight into a truly larger than life musician. You will enjoy this book, promise!	2005-04-06
US	52586539	RU7YRXON4LJOR	0595324452	559558050	If I Knew Then . . .	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Insightful- gives an example of our woman- hating culture	I read this book months ago and forgot to give it praise.This afternoon I saw it on the library shelves ( a good sign ) and another reader was telling me how much she had enjoyed it- this woman grew up on Long Island around the same time- and this reader reminded me of something I had forgotten -just one of many injustices Amy  had to endure. Amy's \\"defense\\" lawyer was unfit to practice criminal defense, and as well he was writing Amy love notes with childish perverted drawings on them. No doubt Amy would have been better served with a more professional defense. <br />   It's easy to see where Amy initially got off the track- usually you start to suspect it would be drugs, but in this case, I think it was the only child syndrome and the presence of a cruel distant father and a ding-dong mother who meant well. Amy was putty in Joey Botafucco's hands. First off, Joey should have been criminally prosecuted for his abuse of a minor- does statuatory rape ring a bell? Secondly, Joey should have been prosecuted for conspiracy to commit murder; the whole scenario was so unfairly focused on persecuting an underage girl and letting the adult male , her pimp by the way, walk free.  <br />   Amy was not just treated to the usual prison \\"justice\\" and lifestyle, she was fair game for rape and torture by the jail guards- female inmates do not have a voice in our society- Martha Stewart notwithstanding. Amy could have gone on with her life without telling her story, but I am glad that she did choose to self publish her book. Readers, your taxes go towards paying these sadistic prison officials! The community at large suffers when the lowest \\"man\\" on the totam pole- in this case incarcerated females at a negative level of power , are victimised instead of being supported for reform.	2005-04-06
US	52586539	R1PA6U1G0X1Y6L	0060540974	878066788	A Paper Life	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A+ for candor , unique tale of triumph, simply told	This book was exactly as I expected, good thick dysfunctional family stew, told from the perspective of the \\"youngest Oscar winner in history\\". To those who feel as if tatum is whining- you just don't get it. People are still so star struck and filled with envy of media idols that they think that Tatum should have just taken her lumps since she \\"got lucky\\" because she may have lived in a hollywood mansion... and Ryan O'neal couldn't have been that bad- look at how nice he looks on film. (These reviewers must have a warped kind ofperverted envy of sordid drama) <br />  I don't even have the words to describe how nauseating and enraging to me the idea that a narcissistic egomanaiacal sociopath like Ryan O'Neal can get away with that kind of behavior- child abuse and neglect. Sad Sad sad ! His only use for his daughter is when he can somehow bask in her reflected glory for his own career advancement.Tatum grew up without any social skills, virtually no parental support, amidst an alcohol, drug, sex and rage addled household. <br />  From the frying pan into the fire, it's easy to see what she found attractive in tennis champ McEnroe. However, you don't have to be a genius to have guessed that this wasn't going to work.It's quite easy to believe that the private at-home personality and character of Jm was not that far from the public persona we have all been witness too- a competitive, vulgar, abrasive egomaniacal spoilsport with no sense of fair play , and in my mind no charm whatsoever. Facts speak for themselves, JM made the mother of his first child sign a prenup when she was barely legal, and the after trying and failing to win approval after being a breeder for his next two children , Tatum splits. <br />   The next part of the story is somehat glossed over, a ten year drug binge during which time Tatum must hand over her three kids to Ogre JM who now has another wife and kid. I agree that Tatum isn't really that articulate about her recovery, and in perspective, she is newly sober- but I do hope for the best for her.She is relatively young, and she appears to be a good parent, I hope that this is the first step in her recovery of her whole being, the tough part is over- hopefully. Congratulations for her act of lifting the veil of secrecy and hypocrisy that we all conspire to create when we keep our Hollywood idols on a pedestal.	2005-03-28
US	52586539	R9M6IEGOMHJ3Y	1569802408	69941562	Every Midget Has an Uncle Sam Costume: Writing for a Living	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Memoir gives an unique spin on the craft of writing	It took me a few chapters to warm up to this guy , but now Donald Bain has my heart AND ears.So many of the writing experts are either academic and high faluttin or woo woo spiritual or too acclaimed to stick their egos in the back seat and ghost write or co-write with other individuals - Donald Bain is none of these and he and his readers are richly rewarded with a breadth of work over decades...He writes stories that are a pleasure to read! Coffee, Tea or Me is a cultural icon at this point, a popular tell-all written from the perspective of two airlines stewardesses, during the glamorous heyday of air travel. Without Bain's participation, the story most likely would not have found its way into popular culture.  <br />  What won me over to this consummate professional is the chapter on working with Veronica lake on her biography . Recently I watched Sullivan's Travels and the next day searched on the internet for more insight into her life;just yesterday I discovered Bain's book - out of print and commanding unusually high prices because of its rarity.The way Donald Bain tells it, originally the publishers were not pleased with the effort because it wasn't sordid enough, it just told the story- without sensationalism. Bravo.Someday I will get a copy of this book and I am sure I will appreciate the story as written.   <br />   I am looking forward to finishing this book, I have yet to read about the woman who was a mind control experiment for the CIA, or the Murder She Wrote material. Both of these topics had a HUGE impact on the consciousness at the time. This is great stuff. The craft of writing aside , even as simple memoir of a working media professional in pre- boomer America this book  suffices as an engaging read.	2005-03-25
US	52586539	R2I8X3PTBC7FFA	1401301010	898371028	Scar Tissue	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Kind of fun to read in a day or two	This book wasn't absolutely thrilling but Anthony and his co-writer deserve 5 stars for telling the unvarnished gritty unapologetic truth. Celebrities and especially rock stars seem to have nine lives when it comes to their blood sucking addictions; I guess it takes longer to hit rock bottom when you are still finding a way to millions of dolllars. Drug dealers don't work on credit... <br />   When he's a kid he's pure charm and I can see how easily he finds damsels who are still energetic enough to be the perfect young and nubile co-dependant. As time goes on the girlfriends become a litttle less naive amd more opportunistic , until the last \\"soul mate \\" turns out to be a bigger junkie than Anthony himself.This dangerous combination helps to create a combustible relapse for both of them. Still, there is something very animated likeable and sincere about this guy,I hope that sobriety and wisdom will color the second half of his life.	2005-03-21
US	52586539	RDEPABV31NM1O	0671726684	953527051	Until the Twelfth of Never:  The Deadly Divorce of Dan & Betty Broderick	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Juicy modern tale of a "desperate housewife"	Loved this book! It's very easy to see how Betty Broderick was driven to kill her husband and his new \\"girl\\" , the conniving younger and prettier \\"upgrade\\". The steps leading up to this murder in cold blood are very thoroughly examined; and honestly both Dan and Linda could have avoided this bitter and violent end if that hadn't provoked and bullied a mad woman to the point of murderous frenzy.Yes, Betty Broderick was a foul mouthed embodiment of a hag who was \\"over the hill\\" and unwilling to let go of the past, and shame on her for helping to create the sociopathic pig of a husband who ends up taking her to the cleaners and mentally abusing her.Betty cannot be absolved of her participation and responsibility , she definetly killed two people and then went \\"oops\\", but the logic of the story is what makes this book so good, I was engaged from page one. <br />    Most women will not have to face such an egomaniacal greedy monster of a husband as Dan Broderick, but this worst case scenario should be a cautionary tale to any woman of any social strata who signs up for the housewife role and is not protected legally in the instance of a divorce.	2005-03-03
US	52586539	R2BD6Z01BQ6XHQ	039915096X	245165032	Mao's Last Dancer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rags to riches tale that stirs gratitude for American values	I never tire of a well told true tale of success \\"against all odds\\" ; where freedom , artistic success , and prosperity are accessed in a short span of time. Without pulling patriotism into the mix, it is impossible to review this man's tale without also admitting  the inanity of the Cultural revoltion and the tyranny and cruelty of the Mao communist structure. Ick! <br />  The anecdotes that the author comes up with upon his arrival in Texas, his first time on the soil of the \\"Evil imperialistic Empire\\" , the United States- are precious. I imagine that fans of ballet dancer's tomes will have an added measure of appreciation fot this story , because overall it's a tale of not only surviving a brutal culture , but succeeding in the land of opportunity because of the excellence of this dancer's craft.	2005-03-03
US	52586539	R37MGOXMSC9PXT	1555536034	122214567	Hot Shots and Heavy Hits: Tales of an Undercover Drug Agent	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superlative tale telling- and guess what- it's all true	Paul Doyle delivers edge of your seat excitement. Poignantly related, this warrior served as an undercover drug agent in the seamy sixties and seventies, in Boston's most rag-tag blighted neighborhoods.What is most refreshing is the lack of moral ambiguity in this narration.While remaining compassionate to the true victims of drugs- the addicts themselves, Paul Doyle mercilessly hunts down the perps on the top of the food chain, the major dealers and manufacturers- in an effort to staunch the flow of the drug epidemic.  <br />  I really enjoyed the book, my hope is that if it does get made into a film that the director has as subtle a touch as the memoirist.	2005-02-16
US	52586539	R674BYAM1ODIY	1579621104	84950756	Callgirl	Books	5	3	4	N	N	For the curiosity seeker, a can't put down read!	The anecdotal stories are a riot, very entertaining and certainly a look through the peephole at a series of transactions that the average reader - or should I say the average non prostitute hiring reader- would never otherwise be able to imagine. So much of our media claims to portray \\"reality\\" in the guise of contests and self conscious posturing in situations that are patently contrived.This is the real thing - human nature , unvarnished, people \\"making deals\\"  Kudos to Ms. Angell for telling the tale with such detail, intelligence and nuance. Double kudos for having the guts and self reliance to be able to expoit her \\"service\\" into a hopefully lucrative and successful book run. How about a movie deal- The entreprenuerial Bridget Jones ?  <br />  I believed every word put forth in this book, and cringed to think of how paltry the rewards seemed ( to me) for someone as intelligent and capable as the author- and hardworking! Her clients were very high maintenance... <br />	2005-02-07
US	52586539	R489421XCCRR8	044652770X	995699181	On the Run: A Mafia Childhood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Finally- the truth from those that lived it !	My heart goes out to both Gina and Gregg for living to tell that tale, of growing up with such absolutely unfit parents and in such harrowing circumstances.Both children LITERALLY survived murder attempts by their father, the infamous sociopathic gangster Henry Hill, during their term in the witness protection program. Congratulations to both of them for severing their ties to their family and going their own ways to become responsible adults and loving parents. <br />   Nowhere in this book do we hear either co-writer justifying or glamorising their parents violent and degrading lifestyle. To their mother's credit, she was not lacking compassion, but just appeared to be a ding-dong and got too far in to the life to see clearly- a classic co-dependant. Unfortunately,as a parent of two children she abdicated her responsibility to protect her children from harm. <br />   I've read Henry Hill's book, and have seen Goodfellas numerous times- now I know I was seeing one dimension of this character. The 360 degree vision is not so pretty- it's intolerable. <br />   The co-writers explain their sides of the story, fascinating that they each came to the same conclusions, eventually, even though there coping mechanisms were different. Gina, Henry's daughter, wore rose colored glasses , seeing only the Good Dad and making the best of things- which is not such a bad modus operandi- it worked- she survived and maybe eeked out a childhood.Gregg, Henry's son, is more realistic, he sees his dad as an angry violent maniupulative sociopathic drug addict and alcoholic that endangers the well being of his family on a daily basis -for selfish motives. Gregg seethes with fury and fights back eventually-and I for one am cheering him on. <br />   I won't spoil it for the reader because this tale is engaging and unique, I have always wondered what the witness protection program was like in practice, and this case is probably the most bizarre application of this necessary evil.In addition, this is almost a Mafia \\"Daddy Dearest\\",- inarguably well deserved , that highlights a truth that we living in this media saturated La La land need to be reminded of- Gangstas are bums!	2005-02-01
US	52586539	R2ZWYT5NQG31ZY	1569801509	106640909	Jet Set: Memoir of an International Playboy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unflinchingly honest ,Quite entertaining!	I really enjoyed the author's tale.. Lighten up readers, and yeah, he is \\"just a gigilo\\" - he happens to excel at it and is able to describe it well ! Massimo starts the memoir by explaining what the Jet Set is and how it came to be. If for some reason you've lost your sense of humour or have a case of the \\"oh poor me , They're fabulous and I'm not\\" blues, then this isn't the book for you. I for one have not the slightest scintilla of jealousy of the lifestyles of the rich and social because the daily activities are a roaring bore from my perspective- Very heavy on the entertaining and social level- it's work to play.<br /><br />  In any case, Massimo has figured his ticket to reaching the inner circle and staying there is simple; capitalize on his strengths: looks, a fairly pleasant demeanor, connections  and his sexual aptitude. His crime? He's a man. (Does the average reader think that in all of the traditional May-December romances of the 'Jet Set' that the female isn't thinking about how to parlay her youth and appeal into some tangible assets?.C'mon- this writer tells it like it is.)<br /><br />  Massimo does just that, although until he gets his bearings he is more of a pawn in the hands of the dowagers he has makes deals with. The Garbo chapters are a hoot- What a fabulous portrait of a character that kept herself shielded from prying eyes, very few people have been able to write about having any sort of intimacy with this legend. I've always suspected that there wasn't a great mystery underneath it all, and that's one of the truths that this lady kept to herself- quite cunning indeed.<br /><br />  After the training wheels comeoff, Massimo cuts his teeth on a new woman, the eighty-something gazillionaire that seduces him , for a price... The \\"strings-attached\\" relationship is chronicled in full detail, I found it fascinating - grateful that the writers have decided to leave out none of the strategy and scheming of either party. The rest of the book's tales are revealing of this particular strata's social order- complex and inconsequential at the same time. Massimo seems surprised when he is spoken of highly at times by observers- In my opinion, he seems like a breath of fresh air amongst those snotty old windbags- I think he gave more that he took.ling of this particular strata's social order- complex and inconsequential at the same time. Massimo seems surprised when he is spoken of highly at times by observers- In my opinion, he seems like a breath of fresh air amongst those snotty old windbags- I think he gave more that he took.	2005-01-28
US	52586539	RP6JJSCB85A76	0399152350	601273361	Small Mediums at Large	Books	5	12	12	N	N	layered kicks , a carnival of sincerity- an ESP Candy store	I knew I was going to dig this book; call it \\"intuition\\"! As a fan of anything leading edge- and trust me the world hasn't even scratched the surface of multi dimensional reality- I was hoping this book would give glimpses of things that I haven't yet been able to view first hand. I was not dissapointed ; I loved feeling just like I was right beside the author as she gives the reader a tour of her experiences. The psychic eccentric early family dynamics that gave birth to the current life are hysterical and poignant.I enjoyed seeing firsthand what certain pockets of experience were like in the sixties and seventies in NY city, downtown and on the Upper west side,in psychic dens, tarot readers lairs and spiritualists meetings. Most people will be left with with their mouths agape over some of the events that take place in the spiritualist community- objects that materialize out of thin air and are delivered via a horn! <br />   The author is very sincere and open, revealing personal heartaches and doubts, the pain of being so receptive and wildly spiritually adventurous- LSD trips notwithstanding.  Imagine having no filters to the despair that surrounds you at times- i.e. catching the eye of a man on the subway and seeing a mental picture of a murdered woman in a hotel room- knowing that he was the killer ,reading the headlines the next day confirming the story ... <br />   We also get a whole lot of the authors organic journey and the maturation of herself into a bona fide psychic reader separate from the family shadow , cast from the Jupiterian Wizard that is her famous older brother... Really nothing is held back or hedged, it's rare to find this kind of honesty in a life tale; revealed in nuanced details. I just couldn't put the book down once I began, and that's always the highest praise.	2005-01-19
US	52586539	REKHT92JJKIYA	1560255757	796588916	The Good, the Bad and the Dolce Vita: The Adventures of an Actor in Hollywood, Paris and Rome (Nation Books)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Delightful and "insidery"	I don't usually write reviews unless I am \\"blown away\\", or if I feel that the book is being unfairly ignored. In this case the latter is true...I found the book delightful, yes, a bit gossipy, but in a good way, there is no slander here.The anecdotes are charming ;this is a series of tales , of snapshots of an off-beat Hollywood life well lived.Unlike many other high profile memoirists  of late, the narrator, although not lacking in self-esteem by any means- seems to have a realistic view of his own importance in the scheme of things.I appreciate that.I also found some of the glimpses of interactions with well known celebrities very insightful and telling -more sincere than I expected, sometimes it's better when the tales are told my someone in a less intimate position, the stories are told with less varnish.  <br />     Simply, I enjoyed the book ; anyone with an interest in movie making , Italy filmaking or 20th century Hollywood should  <br />find something to appreciate in Mickey Knox's stories.	2005-01-03
US	52586539	R99W2UB0N2KWD	0375712992	752816853	The Best American Crime Writing: 2002 Edition: The Year's Best True Crime Reporting	Books	5	8	8	N	N	True-life crime Journalism at its best-A pleasing assortment	As  fan of non-fiction with a leaning towards true life mysteries; I was thrilled to find the 2004 edition of Best American Crime Writing on my library shelves- I ate the whole book up in a few days. I was thrilled to learn that there were additional years of \\"Best' books, right now I am finishing the 2002 compilation ... I decided to dash off a review before I had forgotten.What is so much fun is that the articles themselves are twenty or thirty pages so it's easy to finish one or two in a sitting. Great book for commuters and travelers.As well, if there are any stories that center on a topic that one doesn't find interesting, it's a cinch to simply skip on to the next story.Other reviewers have noted what I will repeat, the writing is first rate, not sensationalised or prurient, and the topics cover such diverse subjects as Insurance fraud in the high stakes world of Horse racing, a Capra-esque town beset with a series of tradgedies,a wacked out super charming serial killer con-man, as well as an investigation into the Crash of Egyp Air 990.I found particularly insightful , Doug Most's Judgement Day  which introduces the reader into the point of view of a contrite convict serving time for murder in Massachusetts, and his experiences with the parole board-I have never read anything quite like it. <br />      Kudos to the editors, they've done a wonderful job pulling together the best of True crime from  the magazine world, this should give exposure and acclaim to a much aligned genre and its authors...	2004-12-20
US	52586539	RO8PNDDGPOYNG	0399151729	162118562	A Royal Duty	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Royal Duty becomes "A Reader's Pleasure"	By chance this book landed in my hands. I ,too was an admirer of Lady Di the humanitarian but felt as if I had heard enough stories in print already;I had disdain for opportunists at this point. However, this story is truly a breath of fresh air- fascinating even before Diana enters the picture, the reader is afforded an intimate birds-eye view of the machinations of Royal service \\"downstairs\\" at \\"BP\\".The protocal of the monarchy was enlightening to this yank. <br />    This is Paul Burrell's story : A regular middle class kid ends up in service to the Queen of England, later serving HRH the Prince of Wales and his wife and children, then finally  working soley for Lady Di at \\"KP\\"- the evolution is slow and carefully outlined in the book, but eventually his station: personal confidante, companion, wardrobe manager, butler, and \\"family\\" to Lady Di ,is unique. What I observe throughout the book is that the author is able to share keen insight into the personalities involved, while remaing discrete and respectful of the monarchy.This is not a sordid tell-all, although I am challenged to find another story that so completely describes the blazing compassion and complicated nature of Diana, from such an intimate stance. <br />     I was enlightened in many ways by the revelations that Diana felt very warmly towards her Royal in-laws, and the Al-Fayed \\"romance\\" was not what the tabloids decreed. Finally the book ends not with Diana's death, but the fall-out scenarios of the settling of her estate.Paul is caught in a cross-fire of bitter relations; vultures driven not by greed, but by envy , fed by class bigotry.A criminal prosecution is pursued by those who feel that Paul got too big for his servant- class britches, and he came away with too much - tokens and letters and clothes and trinkets from Diana while she was living. What they really envied was that he had a bigger piece of her affection than they were ever privy too. <br />     With a few exceptions, most readers feel as I do, this is a story of love , and it feels like the candid truth, not self -serving, but still in service to the \\"Queen of Hearts\\"-I congratulate Paul Burrell on his decision to write this story, it took courage and mettle.	2004-09-05
US	52586539	R3UDU67QTXBKDP	0751305685	88272762	Classic Make-up and Beauty (DK Living)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	kaleidescopic !	Not-so-quaint Mary Quant's definition of  <br />\\"Classic\\" is not the \\"natural look\\" ... A far-out pioneer in swinging sixties style showcases zany fresh bright color palettes, with practical how to's. Lots of color photography- Chapters include: a gallery of looks , u'standing your skin, the makeup palette, skin-care regimens, step-by-step make-up lessons and finally body care programs. Tons of fun !	2004-08-26
US	52586539	R1FF016H3UVLF4	0380793717	690427938	Siberian Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Unique, sincere, refreshing rags to riches tale	Many facets make this a worthwhile read: Set against the backdrop of a crumbling Soviet union, the reader is privy to conditions and scenes from an &quot;insider&quot;. As well this is a coming of age tale that spans continents and industries. It's no wonder that there was such a fuss made about Irina in the fashion world when she first made her splash...She is the world's first high fashion model from Siberia, a fact which may account for her grace and gratitude.Lastly, this is one of the freshest accounts that  have ever read of a young person ( model) participating in the world of top fashion designers- with no trace of ennui or jadedness.	2004-07-19
US	52586539	RF7E7H6OQ8D2Z	1892457083	599328373	Bliss and Blessings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Purple praise : Insight , bubbles, giggles and fun !	&quot;From Nuclear Medicine to Natural Medicine&quot; , Star is the Star of this life story, but this book is so much more than her story, which is indeed delightful.Most valuable is the background it give to the orchid and gem essences that Star is the creator of...As well, this is a manual for using essenses and understanding how they &quot;work&quot;. Get the book, start using the essenses, and start having a ball.	2004-05-17
US	52586539	R7JOE2LCOUS1C	0385507755	641692200	A Million Little Pieces	Books	1	21	28	N	Y	nasty unapologetic jerk reveals all without apologies	What's missing from this memoir of \\"recovery\\" is a sense that the protagonist anti-hero made any sort of recovery from his additions at all.He is still a volatile , angry, blaming , controlling manipulative wrtetched jerk - or is there something I am missing- perhaps in the sequel we will see something positive emerge? That will be the recovery tome, not this.  Are the graphic tales of the pain he went thorough supposed to endear us to him?Ick. There is simply nothing likeable about this man- sober or straight.His endless lists of all the people he has hurt in the myriad of ways from early childhood almost makes me think that he might be a clinically certified sociopath.. So happy not to have met him! There is no compassion, warmth, joy, or anything positive - no light at the end of the tunnnel at all.        I couldn't understand his big confession at the very end- pure murderous rage- and follow through, provoked by an unasked for hand on his knee?.As if we didn't understand already that he \\"did some pretty bad things\\". Yeah- he bad- but who cares?	2004-01-27
US	52586539	RN8D4WAACG23C	140004782X	427742635	The Secret Life of a Schoolgirl: A Memoir	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	Not salacious in any way, this is a touching memoir that focuses on a bittersweet childhood and adolescence. Naturally the teenage romance with the older Charismatic Burton is the shocking and exciting factor, but there is more to enjoy in this book than just this relationship.<BR>   Rosemary's descriptions and tales of her family and environment thrilled me from beginning to end.Like all good memoirs, this one generously reveals the author's individual perspective: we are allowed to climb into the window and visit her life.I enjoyed the book!	2003-08-04
US	52586539	R35OHPBL45AJLU	0060176350	446343385	The Other Side of Deception: A Rogue Agent Exposes the Mossad's Secret Agenda	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Loved it!	The title contains all you need to know. Deception and \\"hidden agendas\\" fascinate me, I tend to think that what you see is not what you're getting in most instances.You will not be able to put this book down.	2003-02-01
US	52586539	RP1MBOLKD241P	0517167220	942458047	Mob Lawyer	Books	5	5	5	N	N	compelling!	I read the book years ago and in my opinion the most compelling &quot;insider&quot; account of mafia mores...It is true that most true crime mafia tales are written by or with the help of mob members, hence the dubious veracity of some facts.(I was reminded of this book, as I just finished For the sins of my Father, written poignantly by Al Demeo, the son of a murderous mobster. We get to see another avenue in this certain world of horror.)<BR>   Mob Lawyer provides this same kind of insight, as Ragano was invited in to the mob world for a function, but he was not involved in the criminal activities.Extremely insightful.	2003-02-01
US	52586539	R14PC17W4GNRP9	1567185746	49804560	The Tarot Companion: An Essential Reference Guide	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Thrilled with this little gem!	How interesting that all sorts of readers come away with such different insights. I loved this little book, in fact it was an overdue library book that I thought I would thumb through before I returned it..and I loved it so much I plan to buy my own copy.<br />  I am not a beginner at esoteric subjects, but I never quite got the hang of doing readings with cards.Perhaps I never will, but I feel more insightful after wolfing down this book in one sitting.<br />  I loved the vast appendix on symbolism, there were some very poignant ideas that made me think in new ways. I remember the author explains that the hand symbolism is closely connected to the heart, that each hand chakra is connected to the heart chakra, and young lovers are often seen holding hands. I thought of the Beatles  &quot;I want to hold your hand&quot;,and later that night dreamed of riding a bus and holding someone's hand. I will never again see the symbol of the hand in the same way.This book is chock-ful of these pearls<br />  The author also weaves in information and connections to the Cabala- and numerology which is very closely aligned with this hebrew system.Lastly, the color/ chakra associations delighted me as well. As far as the card interpretations, I always feel frustrated when too big an explanation is given for each card/ scenario, I like a general energetic symbolic basis that I can expand upon, and this is what was given here.<br />  I would definetly recommend this delightful,concise manual that seems to me, to have something for everyone to enjoy...	2002-11-08
US	52586539	R2VYXRG3SAX3GU	190263618X	16797411	And the Wolves Howled , Fragments of Two Lifetimes	Books	1	20	41	N	Y	Huh?	Never have I been as perplexed about a book as with this selection.Aside from the back that the writing style/ language is droning, montone and without texture of any kind, I don't know what the book was aiming to explain. The story is Boring- <BR>I had to search high and low for details about the re-incarnation aspects.This subject, which claims to be the main one of this book actually takes a back seat to the authors mundane tales of dressage, and I supposes tales of persecution.<BR>   I am usually delighted by a nice photo section, but here again I was mystified by the selection: a photo of the author at age 2, age 2 1/2, age 7, age 12, another age 12, different headshot pose,   one of the author in 1981 next to a horse, another in 1989 with two horses and &quot;a colleague&quot;- no identification , another photo of the author on a horse, late 1980's, another horse photo with the author, 1989, another of the author (surprise!) with a horse, 1991, and then a headshot of the author 1997, and then a different pose 1998.No other photos of persons, objects, buildings, streets, family members documents- basically nothing besides that author in her dresssage get-up ,or a studio portrait of her face.This is so eerie.<BR>   I have read hundreds and hundreds of biographies, memoirs, including dozens of narratives of people's experiences with past life regressions and the like.This one is a doozie, this lady is just plain flaky and a poor storyteller as well.Sorry- add me to the extensive list of people who the author claims to be persecuted by.	2001-12-28
