US	52580048	R29G18R2IPUFDG	0553577239	76171339	The Bone Doll's Twin (Tamir Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	13	22	N	N	Overlong, unnecessary, and incomplete	The Bone Doll's Twin employs a nasty bait-and-switch tactic of not actually informing the reader that it's the first of a trilogy on the cover or back cover.  So I expected a complete story and only got, what, one-third of one?<br />The story itself feels remarkably generic.  It's set in a basic feudal society, replete with travelling and consulting wizards having prophecies and trying to guide the future.  The essential hook of the story - that Tobin is a girl unknowingly in boy's form - is intriguing, but almost ignored by the story's substance (it briefly rears its head at the end, in a rather contrived manner, but is otherwise a side issue).  Instead, the book focuses on Tobin's youth shelted at his father's remote keep, learning to be a warrior and bedeviled by a demon.  Not particularly novel stuff, it's competently told, but so are many such fantasies.<br />Two-thirds in, it became clear that Flewelling wasn't going to resolve the story in the next 150 pages, and my interest flagged.  The story that is here could easily have been edited down to half its length with little of import lost.  The characters are fairly bland, sticking to some tried-and-true stereotypes involving honor, duty, and loss.  And the tension is all in the background - there's fairly little true confict for Tobin to face, and very little that he can do about anything directly himself.  In that way - and with the shifting point of view the novel employs - there's no true protagonist, and it's hard to care about any of the characters as characters - just as pawns in a game.<br />Contrast this with Lois McMaster Bujold's Miles Vorkosigan series, which tread similar ground of duty and honor in the name of one's father, but which do so with dramatic, eloquent characterizations and tense conflicts where the character faces the chance of real loss - and doesn't always win.  The Bone Doll's Twin is tame by comparison.  (More obviously, this book feels like a second-rate version of Guy Gavriel Kay's Tigana, or George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones, both of which - thought flawed - don't flinch at presenting conflict, pain and loss..)<br />What ultimately sinks the book is that it's just a prologue, and yet it's long enough for a whole novel, but the premise certainly lacks the meat to carry through to a trilogy.  Feeling like I've already read more about Tobin and Iya and Ki and Arkoniel than I really needed to, I can't see any reason to proceed to the second volume.  The first is plenty.'s Tigana, or George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones, both of which - thought flawed - don't flinch at presenting conflict, pain and loss..)<br />What ultimately sinks the book is that it's just a prologue, and yet it's long enough for a whole novel, but the premise certainly lacks the meat to carry through to a trilogy.  Feeling like I've already read more about Tobin and Iya and Ki and Arkoniel than I really needed to, I can't see any reason to proceed to the second volume.  The first is plenty.	2003-06-15
US	52580048	R2ZMNES1U47G0I	0553577239	76171339	The Bone Doll's Twin (Tamir Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	3	16	N	N	Overlong, unnecessary, and incomplete	The Bone Doll's Twin employs a nasty bait-and-switch tactic of not actually informing the reader that it's the first of a trilogy on the cover or back cover.  So I expected a complete story and only got, what, one-third of one?<br />The story itself feels remarkably generic.  It's set in a basic feudal society, replete with travelling and consulting wizards having prophecies and trying to guide the future.  The essential hook of the story - that Tobin is a girl unknowingly in boy's form - is intriguing, but almost ignored by the story's substance (it briefly rears its head at the end, in a rather contrived manner, but is otherwise a side issue).  Instead, the book focuses on Tobin's youth shelted at his father's remote keep, learning to be a warrior and bedeviled by a demon.  Not particularly novel stuff, it's competently told, but so are many such fantasies.<br />Two-thirds in, it became clear that Flewelling wasn't going to resolve the story in the next 150 pages, and my interest flagged.  The story that is here could easily have been edited down to half its length with little of import lost.  The characters are fairly bland, sticking to some tried-and-true stereotypes involving honor, duty, and loss.  And the tension is all in the background - there's fairly little true confict for Tobin to face, and very little that he can do about anything directly himself.  In that way - and with the shifting point of view the novel employs - there's no true protagonist, and it's hard to care about any of the characters as characters - just as pawns in a game.<br />Contrast this with Lois McMaster Bujold's Miles Vorkosigan series, which tread similar ground of duty and honor in the name of one's father, but which do so with dramatic, eloquent characterizations and tense conflicts where the character faces the chance of real loss - and doesn't always win.  The Bone Doll's Twin is tame by comparison.  (More obviously, this book feels like a second-rate version of Guy Gavriel Kay's Tigana, or George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones, both of which - thought flawed - don't flinch at presenting conflict, pain and loss..)<br />What ultimately sinks the book is that it's just a prologue, and yet it's long enough for a whole novel, but the premise certainly lacks the meat to carry through to a trilogy.  Feeling like I've already read more about Tobin and Iya and Ki and Arkoniel than I really needed to, I can't see any reason to proceed to the second volume.  The first is plenty.	2003-06-15
US	52580048	R2M41R7O3S1F83	0441007988	149450515	Ship of Fools	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Enjoyable read, but very weak finish	Richard Paul Russo here tackles two of science fiction's hoarier scenarios: The generation starship, and the mysterious alien ship which no one can understand.  Although he writes a more engaging story than some of his predecessors (e.g., Arthur C. Clarke's Rendezvous with Rama, and John E. Stith's Reckoning Infinity), he doesn't pull it off.<br />The book is most interesting in exploring how the good ship Argyros works.  The political machinations and tensions among the factions, the sense of sameness - if not ennui - which pervades their society, and occasional moments of desperation and revolt.<br />Unfortunately he sets this against a backdrop of the aforementioned mysterious alien ship, with the twist that the ship appears related to a dead colony on a nearby world, and is, well, far from safe to explore.  As such Russo sets out to paint yet another picture of aliens so alien and mysterious that we can't understand them.  Such stories are never satisfying, because when the aliens' (or perhaps their ship's) behavior is the centerpiece of the book, we need to eventually be told SOMETHING about them.  Why are they behaving as they are?  Why are they sitting in the middle of space, silent?  Why are the rooms constructed the way they are?  It's not that we need all the answers hand-delivered, but we need to be given something, and we're not.  We can't even draw our own conclusions because there's nothing there to draw from.  Worse, one is left with the strong impression that Russo himself doesn't even have an idea as to what it's all about.<br />The story ends up being - sort of - about how humans react to such an encounter, but the alien ship is so generic it's not even up to the level of, say, 2001, and the ending seems all-too-predicable, ultimately.  The religious and spiritual overtones are not without interest, but they're at best the third-most-interesting element of the book and cannot carry it.<br />I suspect that I'll barely remember the details of this book a year from now, although I enjoyed it for most of the ride.  Chalk it up as another novel which could have been much better than it is, if it had had a firmer direction.ok a year from now, although I enjoyed it for most of the ride.  Chalk it up as another novel which could have been much better than it is, if it had had a firmer direction.	2003-05-19
US	52580048	R3FEHN2X0ROB4H	0471350621	778544091	GANDHI: A Life	Books	3	47	48	N	N	It's a good chronicle, but weak as a biography	I purchased this book because I wanted to learn more about Gandhi and his influence, given that he's been regarded as the father of modern India, and was an inspiration for Martin Luther King Jr.<br />Gandhi: A Life is a densely packed book; I wouldn't say it's hard reading, but there's a huge amount of material here.  Unfortunately, I felt disappointed by it since it does a good job of presenting the basic facts of Gandhi's life (carefully cross-checked for accuracy, the author assures us in his foreword), but goes no further than that.  As such, it will teach the reader much about what Gandhi did and said, and about the state of India circa 1890-1948, but it will provide little insight into the man himself.<br />As one would expect, facts about Gandhi's later life are more readily available than about his earlier life.  Despite this, the first third of the book feels the most rewarding, as several formative events provide profound insight into the man, including his vegetarianism and policies of non-violence.  His gradual development from a shy young lawyer with stage fright into the powerful and dogmatic leader is carefully shown through his experiences in South Africa.<br />His return to India prior to 1920 and his ascension to the top of Indian politics, though, is not as successful.  Just when we most need explanations and interpretations of Gandhi's behavior, Chadha fails us.  Gandhi suddenly ceases to talk on Mondays, for some reason.  He acquires what is essentially a cult of personality, but his own personality seems basically unlikeable, and the personalities of those around him are left sketchy.  Chadha introduces supporting characters with a few paragraphs when they appear, but then takes as a given that their behavior will be understood.<br />While I can understand the desire to deconstruct the mythology around a figure such as Gandhi, it seems to me that the author does us a disservice in not probing deeper into the figure, even if he does have to work with some less-well-documented material.  Such interpretation seems to me to be an essential part of being a biographer.<br />The book concludes on its lowest note, a three-chapter description of the plot (if it can be called that) leading to Gandhi's assassination.  Filled with characters who never met Gandhi, and whose motivations were not particularly profound, it adds almost nothing to our understanding of Gandhi, those around him, or his nation.  It is, ultimately, a digression and an anticlimax.<br />If pure facts about the life of Gandhi are what you're looking for, then this is the book for you.  If you're looking for interpretation or better understanding of who he was and why, then I recommend you look elsewhere.k with some less-well-documented material.  Such interpretation seems to me to be an essential part of being a biographer.<br />The book concludes on its lowest note, a three-chapter description of the plot (if it can be called that) leading to Gandhi's assassination.  Filled with characters who never met Gandhi, and whose motivations were not particularly profound, it adds almost nothing to our understanding of Gandhi, those around him, or his nation.  It is, ultimately, a digression and an anticlimax.<br />If pure facts about the life of Gandhi are what you're looking for, then this is the book for you.  If you're looking for interpretation or better understanding of who he was and why, then I recommend you look elsewhere.	2003-02-14
US	52580048	R3UGRZ7ALC6UL5	006105142X	616600274	Metaplanetary: A Novel of Interplanetary Civil War	Books	1	10	17	N	N	A dull, ordinary book, and it doesn't even have an ending!	Be warned: Metaplanetary is not a complete story.  Indeed, it's 437 pages of prologue to what seems like it will be a much larger story chronicling the struggle between Ames, the Director of the inner solar system (the &quot;Met&quot;), and the free-wheeling inhabitants of the outer system.  Even putting aside the completely unexpected lack-of-an-ending (hardly any of the plot's threads are resolved), this would be a fairly decent premise if the rest of the book didn't alternate between silly and boring.<br />The &quot;boring&quot; part is the real indictment here:  The characters are almost wafer-thin, their only real traits being the occasional rebellious or happy-go-lucky streak.  But they're really all pretty generic individuals, and Daniel's prose sticks to a very distant third person tone, so we never really get inside their heads to know what they're thinking or feeling.  It's like reading a skimpy biography, complete (alas) with lengthy and ponderous descriptions of their early lives.<br />I stopped caring about any of the characters midway through the book.  But then, Daniel was still introducing significant new characters in the book's final quarter, so maybe he'd stopped caring about them as well.<br />Daniel's prose has this wry, don't-take-anything-too-seriously tone which also colored Neal Stephenson's novel Snow Crash.  I found it hard to take there, and it's insufferable here, undercutting the serious elements of the book (concentration camps for sentient computer programs!).  I guess some of the off-handed one liners are supposed to be funny, but they generally felt forced to me.<br />Lastly, there's the &quot;science&quot;.  This is usually pedestrian:  Sentient computer programs, cyberspace, really big sentient spaceships (to bring in the Iain Banks readers, I guess), minds with more than one body (the most interesting element in the book, the way Daniel presents it, but it gets so little screen time its potential is squandered).  The supposed coolness of this is further buried under the relatively mundane lives of the large cast of characters.<br />The grandest scientifictional idea in Metaplanetary is the Met itself:  A network of superstrong cables connecting the Mercury/Venus/Earth/Mars orbits.  Aside from the fundamental implausibility of this network, I kept asking myself what this system gains them.  How is travelling by Met cable better than using a ship?  How is using it for communication better than using wireless networks?  Isn't it a huge capital investment for little apparent payoff?<br />Overall, Metaplanetary might have been a pretty cool novel back in the 1950s, but it feels dated and tedious today.  Spend your reading time elsewhere.lness of this is further buried under the relatively mundane lives of the large cast of characters.<br />The grandest scientifictional idea in Metaplanetary is the Met itself:  A network of superstrong cables connecting the Mercury/Venus/Earth/Mars orbits.  Aside from the fundamental implausibility of this network, I kept asking myself what this system gains them.  How is travelling by Met cable better than using a ship?  How is using it for communication better than using wireless networks?  Isn't it a huge capital investment for little apparent payoff?<br />Overall, Metaplanetary might have been a pretty cool novel back in the 1950s, but it feels dated and tedious today.  Spend your reading time elsewhere.	2003-01-06
US	52580048	R3HC25NXR5C2UO	0441008445	639669735	Empty Cities of the Full Moon	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Where's the story?	Writ large, Empty Cities of the Full Moon is a very standard, no-surprises story of people wandering around the United States following an apocalypse caused by altered prions which send most people on a course of shamanic-derived behaviors leading to their death.  There are a few minor variations - the shapeshifting Werfolk who survive the pandemic, and a man from an alternate universe - but otherwise its plot doesn't really provide any excitement or stimulation.<br />Similarly, the characters are very one-dimensional.  There are the naive young lovers; the scientist; the engineer; the mystic; the fanatic (several of those, actually), and so forth.  None of them really have a \\"story arc\\" through which they clearly grow or evolve.  They're acted on, they're not really the driving forces in the story.<br />Midway through the novel it hit me:  Empty Cities does little more than demonstrate that Hendrix has carefully researched a wide variety of topics, presenting them all in great (sometimes excruciating) detail and in round-robin fashion.  This leads to numerous, lengthy expository passages which, frankly, bored me and often had me skipping ahead by several sentences to see if there was any good stuff coming.  As far as I could tell, there wasn't, really.<br />To the extent that Empty Cities tries to distinguish itself, it attempts this by trying to merge science, metaphysics and spirituality: To provide a scientific explanation for the outre behavior of the Werfolk and the mystical phenomena of the last days and the days after.  I just didn't buy any of it, since it seemed like Hendrix was just handwaving as fast as he could, and his explanations were about as dull as I could possibly imagine them.  Any effort to suspend my disbelief was just not \\"sold\\" at all well.  I would have found the novel more plausible had it been presented as straight fantasy rather than as SF.<br />The novel is a letdown in other ways, too.  the alternate universe angle is basically a red herring (though I found this traveller John Drinan's story - such as it was - more interesting than anyone else's).  Alternating chapters occur in 2232-2233 and 2265-2266, thus robbing the collapse of civilization of any tension it might have had.  Much of it occurs off-stage, anyway.  The plots and plans of the purported \\"heavy\\" seem too abstract to have much emotional weight, and his downfall occurs (of course) because he deliberately puts himself in harm's way (though the convenient presence of omniscient and omnipresent forces help push things along).  Plus, our heroes are constantly meeting people whom they know or have heard of, most of whom conveniently survived the pandemic; it exceeded credibility.<br />Empty Cities of the Full Moon is one to avoid, as it fails to be either fun or exciting, and undercuts its potential to be thought-provoking (what might have been its saving grace) by being long-winded and pedantic at every turn.  Aargh.erring (though I found this traveller John Drinan's story - such as it was - more interesting than anyone else's).  Alternating chapters occur in 2232-2233 and 2265-2266, thus robbing the collapse of civilization of any tension it might have had.  Much of it occurs off-stage, anyway.  The plots and plans of the purported \\"heavy\\" seem too abstract to have much emotional weight, and his downfall occurs (of course) because he deliberately puts himself in harm's way (though the convenient presence of omniscient and omnipresent forces help push things along).  Plus, our heroes are constantly meeting people whom they know or have heard of, most of whom conveniently survived the pandemic; it exceeded credibility.<br />Empty Cities of the Full Moon is one to avoid, as it fails to be either fun or exciting, and undercuts its potential to be thought-provoking (what might have been its saving grace) by being long-winded and pedantic at every turn.  Aargh.	2002-11-18
US	52580048	RC5AZ58A8KOBW	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	3	10	16	N	N	It's okay, but how did it win the Hugo and Nebula Awards?	It's probably impossible for me to know what I'd have thought of this book when it first came out, since I knew the \\"punchline\\" to the story going in.  On the other hand, a truly great novel would have a lot going for it beyond the climactic revelation, and Ender's Game, well, doesn't.<br />The crippling flaw to the story is that the characters (other than Ender himself) are absolutely flat as boards.  None of them have any nuance or subtlety or distinction to them.  Moreover, large chunks of the book (especially those relating to Ender's siblings and their machinations while he's away at school) are entirely redundant to the story as a whole.  They could have been cut out completely and made the novel leaner and more focused.<br />So what's good about the story?  Essentially, it's a series of high-pressure puzzles presented to Ender as he flies through the ranks of the military (at ages 6-to-11!), and seeing how Ender reasons out how to deal with them (whether they're regularly scheduled combat exercises, or encounters with his antagonistic fellow students) is exciting and fun.  The moral dilemmas which Ender must confront - being violent when he doesn't want to be, being a leader when he's not inclined to be - are real, though they suffer greatly from lack of depth or characterization in the world around him.<br />Ender himself is the only character we really get to know.  I never believed that he was a child - he almost never behaves like one - but that's not so bad, since it's his odyssey - not he himself - which is the focus of the book.  But the potential of his character is largely unrealized, since he's generally forced into making particular choices, and we don't get to measure what sort of a person he is through his deeds, since those choices are taken away from him.<br />In many ways, Ender's Game reads like it was written in the 1950s, an era of flat characters and straightforward plots, which is what this novel contains.  It feels primitive next to its contemporaries from the mid-80s (never mind nuanced fiction from the 70s like that from Varley or Zelazny), especially in its no-frills writing style.  At this point, I don't see what all the fuss was about; it's a light read, but not a very satisfying one.contemporaries from the mid-80s (never mind nuanced fiction from the 70s like that from Varley or Zelazny), especially in its no-frills writing style.  At this point, I don't see what all the fuss was about; it's a light read, but not a very satisfying one.	2002-09-10
US	52580048	R3IVHKX93QZ18H	0807062995	751041157	The Female Man (Bluestreak)	Books	1	22	54	N	N	It's not a novel, it's more of a screed	The disappointing thing about The Female Man is not that it's an undistilled feminist statement.  It's that it's a statement which is masquerading as a novel.  But it's not a novel; it's a collection of vignettes, screeds, slogans and observations.  In this book you'll find not a hint of plot, and only the bare bones of characters.  There's no excitement, no tension, and no resolution.  It's not a story.<br />I can put aside the dated feel of the text and the expressions, and even the fact that it's only trying to point out problems rather than provide solutions.  What I can't dodge is the sheer pointlessness of the narrative.  While it is (barely) creative in a science-fictional sense (although its SFnal ideas are simple and cliche today), it has no interest in entertaining.  None at all.<br />This book might be required reading for someone, but clearly I'm not that someone.  It neither entertained me nor edified me.  If you're expecting anything ground-breaking or entertaining in this book, I suggest you look elsewhere instead.	2002-06-28
US	52580048	R1XTN95U6G1WHZ	0312862075	46881269	True Names: And the Opening of the Cyberspace Frontier	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Thought-provoking, but not as far-reaching as I'd hoped	The emphasis of this collection built around Vinge's 1981 story is exploring how the Internet has evolved in the 20 years since, and how it might change in the future, as well as its impact on society.  The deepest essays in the book concern cryptography, which seems appropriate since the hero of \\"True Names\\" gets into trouble because the government finds out who he is (in the first three pages!).  Still, four or five essays on cryptography, how we can use it to free ourselves from government control, and how governments and corporations want to use it (or ban it) to control us makes the book feel like a one trick pony after a little while.  Tim May's article on cryptography says most of what needs to be said on the subject in this context.<br />The essays otherwise are short on exploring how the net has changed our lives in other ways:  Social contact, economic infrastructure, the boost to (and fall in) the economy due to the sheer volume of hardware and software needed to support the net's growth, and so forth.  The article on the virtual reality \\"Habitat\\" fills some of this void, but it seems woefully outdated considering that MUDs, Instant Messaging and the like have all been popularized since Habitat's heyday.<br />As for Vinge's story itself, it still holds up well today as an enjoyable read, although the things that bothered me about it ten years ago (the handwaving about how the human mind interprets the net as a fantasy world, the ineptitude of the police to deal with problems in an off-net manner) are still problematic today.  But it's certainly a rousing adventure, and touches on several points which are entirely worthwhile today (privacy, secrecy, the value of increased computing power, the Turing Test, how peoples' on-line personas can be entirely different from their true selves).  Admittedly, I've always found virtual reality-based stories hard to swallow, so I'm a hard sell in this regard.<br />Hard-core Vinge fans (such as myself) should certainly pick this up, as \\"True Names\\" is an essential developmental story in Vinge's writing career.  Those interested in cryptography or some case studies of the history of the Internet should also find it interesting.  But all-in-all I think I'd have preferred to see \\"True Names\\" included in The Collected Stories of Vernor Vinge and found some other place to present the essays.ick this up, as \\"True Names\\" is an essential developmental story in Vinge's writing career.  Those interested in cryptography or some case studies of the history of the Internet should also find it interesting.  But all-in-all I think I'd have preferred to see \\"True Names\\" included in The Collected Stories of Vernor Vinge and found some other place to present the essays.	2002-06-24
US	52580048	R2JLHIVU1TL1BL	0553381687	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Very good fantasy, but only the first part of a long hike	I'm not, in general, a fan of high fantasy, but I've enjoyed almost everything Martin has written in the past, and several of my friends recommended this series very highly, so I decided to give it a try.<br />It's a very good book, but make no mistake: It's long.  Martin is telling truly EPIC fantasy here, with a large cast of characters, a far-ranging domain, an extensive backstory, and lots of politics and infighting (not to mention the outfighting - as in \\"out fighting on the battlefield\\").  The degree to which it works for you will largely depend on how much you like the characters, and care about their troubles.  Martin's rotating-point-of-view style (a different character is the focus of each chapter) works quite well, particularly when you see two sides of the same events, as happens several times.  While some of the characters' stories are there mainly to illuminate other characters (Ned's daughter Sansa, for instance, doesn't really have her own story), others are quite compelling, particularly Tyrion Lannister - the intelligent and outspoken dwarf - and Jon Snow - Ned's ... son sent to guard the northern wall against the horrors beyond it.  Tyrion is clever and funny and always entertaining to read about, while Jon is deeply conflicted and has been placed in a difficult situation which ought to have a great impact on the rest of the world before long.<br />A Game of Thrones largely concerns the power plays between Ned Stark's family and the Lannister family, to which the queen of the realm belongs.  The king, Robert Baratheon, is an old friend and comrade of Ned's, but has become strangely quixotic as he'd gotten older, and he seems oblivious to some of the real problems facing the realm, and Ned's days at court occur as the stability of said court is rapidly disintegrating.  Of course, it all ends up in war, but it's a carefully-crafted and meaningful conflict, which does come to, well, a resting point by the end of the novel.<br />However, it all feels like just the prologue to the real story, as there are much worse dangers hinted at elsewhere:  The beings beyond the northern wall, who seem to be getting more active as the long winter approaches.  And Daenerys Targaryen, daughter of the last Targaryen king, whom Robert and Ned overthrew 15 years earlier, who is engaged in her own adventure across the ocean which might prove at least as dangerous to the Seven Realms as the northern creatures.<br />The next few novels will not be very successful if they focus primarily on the ongoing conflicts among those within the Seven Realms.  The next novel has to start bringing one of the other threats out of the darkness or the story will quickly become idea-poor.<br />I wouldn't rate Game as highly as Martin's earlier novels Armageddon Rag or Fevre Dream, but it's quite good.  It's going to need a big payoff for the series to be wholly successful, though.  Currently slated for six volumes, I hear, I hope he's got a lot of neat tricks up his sleeve, because an ongoing run of intrigue and mundane battlefields isn't going to cut it for me.like just the prologue to the real story, as there are much worse dangers hinted at elsewhere:  The beings beyond the northern wall, who seem to be getting more active as the long winter approaches.  And Daenerys Targaryen, daughter of the last Targaryen king, whom Robert and Ned overthrew 15 years earlier, who is engaged in her own adventure across the ocean which might prove at least as dangerous to the Seven Realms as the northern creatures.<br />The next few novels will not be very successful if they focus primarily on the ongoing conflicts among those within the Seven Realms.  The next novel has to start bringing one of the other threats out of the darkness or the story will quickly become idea-poor.<br />I wouldn't rate Game as highly as Martin's earlier novels Armageddon Rag or Fevre Dream, but it's quite good.  It's going to need a big payoff for the series to be wholly successful, though.  Currently slated for six volumes, I hear, I hope he's got a lot of neat tricks up his sleeve, because an ongoing run of intrigue and mundane battlefields isn't going to cut it for me.	2002-06-10
US	52580048	R3551586K2IY30	0312861028	613572052	Psychohistorical Crisis	Books	4	26	26	N	N	A book for fans of Foundation and future histories	If you were a fan of Isaac Asimov's original Foundation trilogy but were bitterly disappointed (as I was) with his 1980s extension of the series, then Donald Kingsbury's Psychohistorical Crisis may be for you!  Fans of complex future histories such as that of H. Beam Piper may also want to slug their way through the book, but be warned:  Although rewarding in many ways, the book is quite dense and does take some effort to get through.<br />Kingsbury works from the original Foundation Trilogy, veiling the scenario somewhat (Trantor becomes Splendid Wisdom; the Mule becomes Cloun-the-Stubborn), and updates the technology to that which modern readers can appreciate (Cloun used mind control tech to upset the Foundation plan, and the Second Foundation - here called the Pscholars - improved on it to counter him, resulting in supercomputers implanted in peoples' heads, called 'fams').  He then figures that the Foundation plan was carried through to the founding of a Second Empire, and 1600 years later this Empire is under control of the Pscholars.<br />The hook into the story is that Pscholar Eron Osa has committed a crime so horrible that his fam is destroyed - not good, considering that most of his memories and skills were on the fan.  Kingsbury then shows us how Osa got to this point, how he was unwittingly used by the Oversee, a group trying to rebel against the Pscholars, and how he was mentores by Hahukum Konn, a brilliant but eccentric Pscholar.  And we eventually learn what's really going on, and what's really threatening the stability of the Empire.<br />Kingsbury goes all out to paint the history of his galaxy, and to a great extent the novel is an exploration of history and our perceptions of it.  This element is wildly successful, although not perhaps for everyone.  Also successful is his exploration of how one might organize a rebellion against overlords who can predict the future (or, at least, the future of large numbers of people), and some of the details of how Psychohistory might world, and its limitations.<br />The book does ultimately have the disappointment that it ends rather abruptly, bringing some closure to Eron Osa's story, but leaving open the question of how the crisis of the book's title will resolve itself.  The book is also not very character-heavy (and is strangely almost devoid of strong female characters, for reasons hard to fathom). Still, this is a delightful book for fans of futuristing world- (or galaxy-) building, and it's hard to fault it for being tremendously ambitious, even if it doesn't fully achieve its ambitions.<br />And, best of all, it leaves Asimov's later novels in its dust.f how Psychohistory might world, and its limitations.<br />The book does ultimately have the disappointment that it ends rather abruptly, bringing some closure to Eron Osa's story, but leaving open the question of how the crisis of the book's title will resolve itself.  The book is also not very character-heavy (and is strangely almost devoid of strong female characters, for reasons hard to fathom). Still, this is a delightful book for fans of futuristing world- (or galaxy-) building, and it's hard to fault it for being tremendously ambitious, even if it doesn't fully achieve its ambitions.<br />And, best of all, it leaves Asimov's later novels in its dust.	2002-06-10
US	52580048	R2CYX17L6PURMG	0156002434	487865803	Only Begotten Daughter (Harvest Book)	Books	2	14	20	N	N	A second coming story without a purpose	Much like Neal Gaiman and Terry Pratchett's Good Omens, Only Begotten Daughter left me nonplussed.  The sense of humor (other than some assorted wordplay) didn't work for me, and what could have been a wry and subtle story about a divine young woman trying to find her purpose in life takes a horribly wrong turn when the devil himself shows up and proves to be working to use her for his own purposes.  Morrow uses the set-up to poke some fun at Christianity, and is sometimes entertaining when he does so, but often the story is muddled.<br />The first third of the book is best, with child-of-god Julie Katz growing up in New Jersey with her Jewish father, lesbian almost-stepmother, and best friend.  Thing go downhill in the middle third, when the adult Julie tries to figure out how to help people, and gets caught up in a web spun by Satan to create a new church.  Julie makes some decisions which I just didn't buy about her character, and spends the last third of the book trying to make sense of what her earlier actions created:  A fairly standard religious dystopia.<br />Though Morrow has clearly researched his source material deeply, he has trouble getting to the heart of his characters (Julie is, at best, something of a cipher), and his story isn't particularly effective.  The strange \\"moral\\" of the story seems to be: If people are chastising you for not reaching your full potential, then lower your potential.  Morrow doesn't seem to grasp the irony of this lesson, and the book ends up feeling profoundly unfulfilling.	2002-06-10
US	52580048	R3QKR3PX7KNE3P	0312860986	999993855	China Mountain Zhang	Books	1	21	35	N	N	There's nothing engaging or original here	Maureen McHugh's novels had been highly recommended to me before, so I was looking forward to reading this novel for a book discussion group.  I was bitterly disappointed: Like the old joke about Oakland, there's no \\"there\\" there in China Mountain Zhang.<br />I was happy to forgive the novel its premise: That Chinese socialism would win sway over the world economically.  And I even saw that the novel was about protagonist Zhang growing from a meek and trapped man in downtrodden New York to a confident and unique individual carving his own space in the city.  But in working with its broad premise and following through on its character's development, the novel falls apart at nearly every turn.<br />McHugh uses a supremely distant writing style: First-person present tense, with Zhang seemingly sleepwalking through his life.  Even as he comes out of his shell it still seems he's always viewing his life from a great distance.  The style underscores the essential tedium of Zhang's character, as he seems disengaged from life, barely interested in anything around him, and not a person you'd want to know, much less befriend.  Even after he starts standing up for himself, he's still simply dull and disengaged.<br />McHugh employs a virtually plot-free structure, as Zhang confronts various shifts in his life (losing his job in New York, travelling to a remote part of the continent, dealing with the loss of a lover), but McHugh always cuts away just at the moment when the story might get interesting, never letting us get inside Zhang's head (despite the fact that he's the narrator), not letting us see his personal development.  Instead, she provides asides to other characters elsewhere in her universe - some of whom have a remote connection to Zhang at best - and then jumping back after all of Zhang's growing has occurred!  She never actually grapples with her character to show us what he's all about.  What little character development there is mostly occurs off-stage.<br />The background is idea-poor.  It's a post-economic-collapse novel with the vaguely novel idea of classist socialism thrown over it, but it's the class prejudice, not the socialism, which matters in the novel, and that's hardly new.  The asides about colonies on Mars are the sorts of things which have been portrayed many times before (if you've read Heinlein's The Moon is a Harsh Mistress then you've read pretty much what this novel has to present on the subject).  The only moment that the ideas engage you intellectually are a lengthy diatribe near the end in which Zhang contrasts economic and scientific developments, but that treaties - though far and away the most lively writing in the book - ultimately doesn't go anywhere.<br />Unless you can't get enough of run-of-the-mill near-future post-calamity SF, or you enjoy novels about gay protagonists regardless of their other merits, you should give China Mountain Zhang a wide berth.background is idea-poor.  It's a post-economic-collapse novel with the vaguely novel idea of classist socialism thrown over it, but it's the class prejudice, not the socialism, which matters in the novel, and that's hardly new.  The asides about colonies on Mars are the sorts of things which have been portrayed many times before (if you've read Heinlein's The Moon is a Harsh Mistress then you've read pretty much what this novel has to present on the subject).  The only moment that the ideas engage you intellectually are a lengthy diatribe near the end in which Zhang contrasts economic and scientific developments, but that treaties - though far and away the most lively writing in the book - ultimately doesn't go anywhere.<br />Unless you can't get enough of run-of-the-mill near-future post-calamity SF, or you enjoy novels about gay protagonists regardless of their other merits, you should give China Mountain Zhang a wide berth.	2002-05-14
US	52580048	R2ZHO288QK30NW	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very amusing!  Picture Dave Barry crossed with Douglas Adams	I gave in to a friend suggesting I read Bryson's work, and I'm glad I did, as I got more good chuckles and laugh-out-loud moments out of this book than in anything I've read in many months.<br />It's probably inevitable that Bryson would be compared to other modern humorists.  The comparison to Dave Barry is apt largely because they both write brief essays on specific topics, and both tend to end their essays with sudden and silly references to something the touched on earlier in the essay.  Though the comparison really ends there, since Barry seems more taken with bathroom humor and taking a ridiculous idea to its absurd extreme than is Bryson.<br />Bryson seems more inclined to touch on issues that seem to have gone to a ridiculous extreme on their own, and that combined with his use of wordplay seem reminscent of Douglas Adams (Adams' bit in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy about the notice that Arthur Dent's house is going to be bulldozed being locked safely somewhere that Dent couldn't possibly find it could easily have been written by Bryson).  His essay &quot;What's Cooking&quot;, about the ridiculousness of ordering at a fancy restaurant, had me rolling on my side, and I've read parts of it to several friends.  &quot;Mail Call&quot;, an ode to the US Postal Service (and Britain's Royal Mail) is equally funny, and has real heart behind it.<br />The charm of Bryson's writing here is the perspective of an American having been Anglicized and then returning to the US after 20 years.  The contrast in cultures, portrayed by someone who's experienced both of them, is endearing, and Bryson makes it clear that when you move you're always giving something up, but getting something new and wonderful in exchange.  It's almost enough to make me move to Britain to have the same experience myself.<br />Alas, the essays - originally written for weekly publication in Britain - become less insightful as time passes, and as Bryson acclimates to his new life in America.  He focuses more and more on general ridiculousness in life, and less on the contrast between America and Britain, which is where the book's soul lies.  So, for instance, essays about the difficulty of using a Windows-based computer, or about the film Titanic, fall flat.  And the essay on the US income tax forms seems entirely generic (what, for instance, are the British forms like, I wonder?).<br />Despite this, fans of lively humor essayists should certainly give this a try.  Another good comparison might be with Richard Feynman's autobiographical Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman; both books are funny, uplifting, and make you feel good just to be alive.  It's heartwarming to know that there are people like Bryson in the world.focuses more and more on general ridiculousness in life, and less on the contrast between America and Britain, which is where the book's soul lies.  So, for instance, essays about the difficulty of using a Windows-based computer, or about the film Titanic, fall flat.  And the essay on the US income tax forms seems entirely generic (what, for instance, are the British forms like, I wonder?).<br />Despite this, fans of lively humor essayists should certainly give this a try.  Another good comparison might be with Richard Feynman's autobiographical Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman; both books are funny, uplifting, and make you feel good just to be alive.  It's heartwarming to know that there are people like Bryson in the world.	2002-03-03
US	52580048	RMTBSNREA65W9	0375420975	449634161	Peanuts: The Art of Charles M. Schulz	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent rare material, but could have been even better	Sadly, much early Peanuts work from the 1950s has never been collected, and possibly never will be.  (Bloom County has the same problem.)  This book goes some way to correcting that oversight, as many dozens of early strips are reprinted, camera-shot from newspaper copies preserved for decades.  The lively evolution of the strip from its earliest days to its heyday in the 1960s are captured for the reader's fascination, along with some of Charles Schultz' pre-Peanuts work.<br />The book is not truly a collection of strips, though; it's a consideration of Schultz' body of work, with historical notes and stylistic analysis, as well as sidebars regarding the animated shows and various rare paraphernalia produced in conjunction with the strip (photos of statues of the characters are particularly striking).  Insightful quotes by Schultz regarding his work and his characters are also presented.  It's an educational reference, in that way, much as Bill Watterson's Calvin & Hobbes 10th Anniversary Special or Dan Piraro's Bizarro collection, Life is Strange and So Are You, are.<br />The book could have been even better, though.  It has a fancy sense of graphic design which seems starkly at odds with Schultz's straightforward linework.  This includes reproductions of some strips in either very small or very large formats, both of which work against the strips' charm.  The failure of the book to pick a format and stick with it is lamentable, and tends to hide the commentary making it difficult at timesto follow the narrative.<br />Schultz's material transcends the format's limitations, though, and any Peanuts fan should delight at the surprises waiting for them in the strip's earliest years, such as the evolution of some of the characters, and the peculiar (to our eye today) foibles that they exhibited in the beginning.  The reproduction quality is by-and-large very high (even the small versions of the strips are readable), and the choice of material includes some of my favorite strips.  The latter days of the strip (1980-2000) are given only a brief look, which is good since it was clearly on its downside by that point (besides the declining choice of subject matter - I never warmed to either Peppermint Patty or Spike as major characters - Schultz's draftsmanship suffered somewhat as a result of his stroke).<br />Despite its flaws, this book is an essential and unique piece of Americana.  With any luck, it will sell well enough that a comprehensive reprint of Peanuts from its inception will commence in the near future.  Hey, we can dream, can't we?te strips.  The latter days of the strip (1980-2000) are given only a brief look, which is good since it was clearly on its downside by that point (besides the declining choice of subject matter - I never warmed to either Peppermint Patty or Spike as major characters - Schultz's draftsmanship suffered somewhat as a result of his stroke).<br />Despite its flaws, this book is an essential and unique piece of Americana.  With any luck, it will sell well enough that a comprehensive reprint of Peanuts from its inception will commence in the near future.  Hey, we can dream, can't we?	2002-03-03
US	52580048	R190A78IYKMH5G	0380793326	678851862	The Physiognomy	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Imaginative science fantasy, but it left me feeling empty	The Physiognomy is a story in three acts, in which protagonist Cley shows his despicable nature, then travels through purgatory and is given the chance to redeem himself by doing right by those he had wronged.  It's a simple story arc, told against a dark and surreal backdrop: The Well-Built City, crafted in the image of the mind of it's maker, the Master, Drachton Below.  The territorial town of Anamasobia, inhabited by plebians whom Cley sees as almost bestial.  The sulphur mines of the island of Doralice, run by twin brothers and an intelligent monkey.  Not to mention Cley's vocation: Reading the nature of people by measuring the character of their faces and bodies.<br />Ford proves to be an able scripter, and despite its sometimes-gruesome subject matter the book is filled with dark humor, often taking the form of some character saying something totally unexpected.  Cley's predicaments are often novel and challenging, and the story moves right along.  Small touches fill out the story and make the whole place seem vivid and real... at first glance.<br />The Physiognomy's greatest weakness is that it never really gets below the surface of its story.  Physiognomy is an impressive device, filled with the potential for all sorts of moral quandaries, but its use diminishes quickly and drastically after the first third of the book. The nature of the Well-Built City is never really explored, the ramifications of (essentially) living in someone's mind not really plumbed.  For that matter, Cley himself is something of a cipher.  We don't really know where he came from, what led him to Physiognomy, or why he stays in his position.  Greed?  Ambition?  Fear?  Devotion to the Master?  All seem plausible, but none any plausible than any other.<br />Moreover, arbitrary events occur at various points in the story without any reason I could see.  This often lowers a scene to the level of cheap melodrama: Rather than testing his mettle, Cley sometimes is either overcome quickly and pointlessly, or saved in a deus-ex-machine fashion.<br />It seems that the book is meant to be a sort of allegory.  Perhaps a sort of twisted Garden of Eden (there's a fruit, an Adam and an Eve, and all sorts of exiles), or perhaps a simple (if heavy-handed) story about how we tend to judge people based on superficial characteristics, and that we all will go to any ends we have to to advance our position (and, perhaps, that the 'solution' to these problems is to eliminate the need for positions in society).  But none of these options feels true or sufficient.  The conclusion feels devoid of purpose.<br />The book's strength - beyond Ford's writing style - is the mass of churning ideas and the way in which Ford expresses them.  There are ample quantities of neat stuff to keep you reading, even if you don't quite figure out how they all fit together.  The character names are also neat, sounding very evocative, but you're rarely quite sure of what.<br />The novel which The Physiognomy most reminds me of is Sean Stewart's Resurrection Man, which also painted a portrait of an intriguing world with its own rules, but which also felt like it didn't follow through on the promise of its concepts.  Neither is a bad book, but both feel essentially unfinished, like they're lacking the soul to give them true strength.d pointlessly, or saved in a deus-ex-machine fashion.<br />It seems that the book is meant to be a sort of allegory.  Perhaps a sort of twisted Garden of Eden (there's a fruit, an Adam and an Eve, and all sorts of exiles), or perhaps a simple (if heavy-handed) story about how we tend to judge people based on superficial characteristics, and that we all will go to any ends we have to to advance our position (and, perhaps, that the 'solution' to these problems is to eliminate the need for positions in society).  But none of these options feels true or sufficient.  The conclusion feels devoid of purpose.<br />The book's strength - beyond Ford's writing style - is the mass of churning ideas and the way in which Ford expresses them.  There are ample quantities of neat stuff to keep you reading, even if you don't quite figure out how they all fit together.  The character names are also neat, sounding very evocative, but you're rarely quite sure of what.<br />The novel which The Physiognomy most reminds me of is Sean Stewart's Resurrection Man, which also painted a portrait of an intriguing world with its own rules, but which also felt like it didn't follow through on the promise of its concepts.  Neither is a bad book, but both feel essentially unfinished, like they're lacking the soul to give them true strength.	2002-02-11
US	52580048	R1AS2MPUZHHC94	0765303027	743536920	Dark Light	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Needs more high tech to really work	The second of a purported trilogy, Dark Light seems merely okay, much like its predecessor, Cosmonaut Keep.  I think its essential flaw is that it focuses too much on political theory and novel low-tech cultures and governments, whereas the triumph of MacLeod's best novels (The Stone Canal and The Cassini Division) are explorations of the merging of HIGH tech and unusual politics, and how the two act on one another.<br />Most of the high tech in Dark Light is of the pedestrian sort:  FTL travel, longevity, powerful and enigmatic aliens.  The meat of the book focuses on the city of Rawliston (whose tech is slightly behind modern America's), and the low-tech culture of The Great Vale, beyond the limits of the city.  MacLeod introduces some gender-ambiguity issues in the people of the Vale which I found tiresome at best.  He does better with Rawliston, with its &quot;democracy through drawing lots&quot; government, and suspicion of the human-navigated spacecraft on which our heroes arrive.<br />Dark Light turns of the focus of the novel squarely on long-lived Matt Cairns (whereas in Cosmonaut Keep his descendant Gregor shared the spotlight).  The quest of Matt and his cohorts to learn why their ship was brought to this sector of space by the powerful aliens is the most arresting element of the book.  Unfortunately the threads of this story are spread a little too thinly.  There is finally a payoff, but it takes quite a while to get there, and too much time is focused on a supporting cast that didn't engage me.<br />Just as with the first book, I felt that Dark Light was a good foundation on which to build.  Alas, it's this second book in the series should have done a lot of the building!<br />MacLeod seems strangely interested in human cultures trying to rediscover their past glories, but after three such novels (The Sky Road also had this theme) I feel like I get the idea.  He's so adept at showing humans grappling with their FUTURE glories, I wish he'd go back to tackling that.  Maybe the next book will finally bring such a payoff to this series.kling that.  Maybe the next book will finally bring such a payoff to this series.	2002-02-11
US	52580048	R2TYU0Z84K7H7X	0312873840	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	3	14	16	N	N	A big concept novel, but the climax doesn't  live up to it	The central idea of this novel is so good that you figure even if things aren't really what they appear, it's still got to be a worthwhile read:  Huge monuments are appearing around the world proclaiming the conquest of various regions by a conqueror named Kuin some 20 years in the future.  Our hero, Scott, is one of those present when the first monument appears, and ends up as part of a team researching the Chronoliths, even as he watches the world disintegrate around him in anticipation of that future, although Kuin himself is otherwise a complete unknown.<br />The downside to the novel is that it's mostly about the anticipation of that future, and when we get there the climax isn't big and fitting enough to provide a satisfying payoff.<br />In many ways, the story is only peripherally about the Chronoliths.  It's really about Scott, the disintegration of his marriage in the wake of the first Chronolith's arrival, his efforts to maintain a relationship with his daughter, and the growth of a worldwide movement based around Kuin (though it could really be based around any revolutionary premise).  But for a book which focuses so tightly on the characters, the character elements aren't particularly compelling.  The drama among them seems writ very small next to the scientifiction ideas, and we rarely feel the visceral emotions that must surround the conclusions of some of the episodes of the story.  The first-person narrative (told by Scott many years after the events he chronicles) keeps the reader at a distance from his feelings.<br />The book's consideration of the Chronoliths and their seeming-paradoxical nature is where the book is its best.  Its most compelling central notion is the &quot;feedback loop&quot; which Kuin's actions are creating, not only by using the Chronoliths (presumably) to strengthen his hold on the future world, but by causing the future to in a sense become the past.  Wilson pulls off this trick by refusing to give in to the &quot;alternate futures&quot; notion of time travel: The past can't be changed, so elements in the future which must have occurred due to the Chronolith's presence must therefore occur.  It's clever, and provides a novel sense of motivation to some of the characters.<br />Where the story ultimately doesn't work, though, is that the answers to the central questions, &quot;Who is Kuin?&quot;, &quot;Why is he conquering the world?&quot;, &quot;Why is he creating the Chronoliths&quot;, are disappointing, and it's there that the causality of the book also frays at the edges.  I can respect that Wilson is writing a novel about individuals and that he wants to focus on Scott and his circle and make comments on the nature of humanity as the collective actions of many individuals and their small concerns, but it's tough to have a high-concept set-up like this and not deliver the high-concept payoff.<br />The novel does deliver an engaging narrative and some good ideas to chew on, and perhaps it's my hopes that need adjusting more than the story.  Still it seems there could have been oomph here.futures&quot; notion of time travel: The past can't be changed, so elements in the future which must have occurred due to the Chronolith's presence must therefore occur.  It's clever, and provides a novel sense of motivation to some of the characters.<br />Where the story ultimately doesn't work, though, is that the answers to the central questions, &quot;Who is Kuin?&quot;, &quot;Why is he conquering the world?&quot;, &quot;Why is he creating the Chronoliths&quot;, are disappointing, and it's there that the causality of the book also frays at the edges.  I can respect that Wilson is writing a novel about individuals and that he wants to focus on Scott and his circle and make comments on the nature of humanity as the collective actions of many individuals and their small concerns, but it's tough to have a high-concept set-up like this and not deliver the high-concept payoff.<br />The novel does deliver an engaging narrative and some good ideas to chew on, and perhaps it's my hopes that need adjusting more than the story.  Still it seems there could have been oomph here.	2002-01-24
US	52580048	R2P56F6DGXPL5D	0553288733	57167313	Tehanu (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 4)	Books	2	14	19	N	N	Small scope and scant plot render Tehanu superfluous	Picking up right where The Farthest Shore left off, Tehanu shows us the life Tenar chose to lead after The Tombs of Atuan, and her encounter with Ged when he returns to Gont following The Farthest Shore.  Unfortunately, the book doesn't really have a story to tell (though it's full of portents and stories of goings-on elsewhere in Earthsea).  It is, effectively, the story of two souls on a remote island who are no longer part of the larger tapestry.<br />Which would be fine, except why bother writing a novel set in Earthsea about such people?  The charm of the trilogy was that it was Ged's odyssey through a pivotal time in the history of a remarkable world and how he contributed to it.  Tehanu shows us nothing new about Le Guin's magical world, and has little interesting to say.  It's at its worst when the musings about \\"mens' work\\" vs. \\"womens' work\\" and \\"men's power\\" vs. \\"womens' power\\" comes out; Le Guin has nothing provocative or excitings to say here, and no conclusions - satisfying or otherwise - are reached.  It's as if Le Guin felt self-conscious that the trilogy was so male-centric and wanted to rectify that.  But it comes at the expense of the wonder that made the trilogy great fantasy.  It's a small book about small people.<br />Worst of all, the book falls completely apart at its climax, as the narrative becomes muddy and rushed, with a finale which has little meaning in the context of the rest of the book.<br />Tehanu shows that you can't go home again; the trilogy was 20 years in her past when she wrote this, and Tehanu neither extends nor expands on it.  If you loved the trilogy and want to read more like it, look elsewhere.	2002-01-21
US	52580048	R162ML3BUTEXHN	0312873735	457270368	The Collected Stories of Vernor Vinge	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Enlightening anthology, though with its ups and downs	Vernor Vinge is perhaps the premier craftsman of stories which turn on novel changes in the nature of reality.  He's a master of plumbing the depths of an idea and crafting a fully-realized world around one or several fantastic notions.<br />Collected Stories has plenty to reward the Vinge fan:  Insightful annotations by the author suggesting his thoughts on writing each story, or expanding on his notion of the Singularity which our technological progress is pushing us towards, and how that idea has shaped his excellent novels.  Several stories (&quot;The Ungoverned&quot;, &quot;The Blabber&quot;, &quot;The Barbarian Princess&quot;) which occur in the worlds of his novels.  Even a new novella, &quot;Fast Times at Fairmont High&quot;, printed here for the first time, conjecturing a near-future junior high school where all the students are wired into the net and teachers must pose new and unusual tests for them to complete.<br />Despite this, the collection is nonetheless uneven.  A couple of stories take a hardly-believeable turn into libertarianism or anarchic capitalism, failing to persuade me that their societies wouldn't destroy themselves in mere days.  And a couple are based on disappointingly simple ideas, such as what sort of people might someday be forced to colonize Antarctica, or the impact that certain detritus in space might have.  Even &quot;Fast Times&quot; I found disappointing as it seemed reluctant to resolve certain details of its plot, and it seemed also to undercut its own message of the importance of basic skills over specific knowledge.<br />The best stories in this collection combine Vinge's knack for ideasmanship with his best storytelling.  &quot;Original Sin&quot; has humanity confronting an up-and-coming race which has all of our talents and advantages in spades, and plopping its heroes at ground zero among these people; it's a pretty terrifying story.  And &quot;The Blabber&quot; explores some elements from his novel A Fire Upon the Deep in a somewhat different setting, with some implications that make you wish he'd return to continue the story someday.<br />Reading this collection suggests that Vinge perhaps works best in a long format, as nothing here equals his best novels, Fire and Marooned in Realtime.  But there's entertaining stuff here, and if you've enjoyed his novels then you'll probably find this worth a shot.in a somewhat different setting, with some implications that make you wish he'd return to continue the story someday.<br />Reading this collection suggests that Vinge perhaps works best in a long format, as nothing here equals his best novels, Fire and Marooned in Realtime.  But there's entertaining stuff here, and if you've enjoyed his novels then you'll probably find this worth a shot.	2002-01-08
US	52580048	R2KS372IJZMFL2	0886775132	211899427	Jaran	Books	1	25	33	N	N	Astoundingly boring piece of romance-fantasy	This is the dullest book I've read in several years.  Combine this with its claim to be science fiction, when in fact it's some combination of romance and fantasy, and my recommendation can be summed up as: Avoid as all costs.<br />It's hard to pick just one point where the book goes wrong, but its essential failing is that it has no plot.  Tess, our heroine, is the sister and heir to humanity's only Duke in the Chapalii empire which has absorbed our society, but that doesn't really figure into the story.  The book actually focuses on Tess being accidentally dropped into the middle of nowhere on an alien world (conveniently populated by humans who were seeded there millennia ago) where she hooks up with a band of nomads led by the strong, stoic and gruff Ilya Bakhtiian.  It's clear from the outset that Tess and Ilya are going to walk down the rocky road of romance.  Unfortunately, this road involves the nomad tribe wandering from random place to random place, having random encounters with various foes which sometimes results in some supporting characters dying.<br />Elliott manages to avoid any dramatic foreshadowing, or building up to any of the climactic events of the story (except for the one which would best be kept hidden: The Tess-Ilya chemistry).  Instead, things happen without warning, and often have little impact on the remainder of the book.  It's a series of almost-disconnected vignettes, and a sterling example of how not to plot a novel.<br />These problems are compounded by the lack of depth in the leading characters.  Tess is a complete cipher, who's trying to create her own life from outside her brother's shadow, but what exactly she wants and how she'll go about getting it are vague, and even at the end of the story it's not clear why she did anything she did, except out of the 'pure goodness of her heart'.  Ilya, similarly, never grows beyond being gruff, stoic and strong, except for a rather reprehensible scene where he turns out to be conniving and untrustworthy.  Not a great thing for your romantic lead to display!  (A handful of supporting characters are more textured and entertaining, but their screen time is all-too-brief.)<br />These two flaws come together to undermine the climax:  Neither Tess or Ilya really has to give anything up or lose anything to get what they want.  They don't truly have any tough decisions to make, no strong outside forces pushing them to go one way or the other.  They just need to decide whether they want A or B, and it's pretty much theirs for the taking.  There's no dramatic tension in the story.<br />Finally, while the setting of Jaran is scenic and lush, it's also fairly generic.  The culture of Ilya's people is not particularly innovative or compelling.  It reads like a standard mass-market fantasy novel.  The few intriguing elements - involving humanity's relationship with the Chapalii - are shoved aside roughly in favor of the tedious romance.<br />While reading Jaran I felt that the story felt much like Lois McMaster Bujold's novels Shards of Honor and Barrayar, but without the elements that made Bujold's novels work:  The strong, deep characters, the powerful outside forces working against them, and complex and difficult culture of Barrayar into which the heroine Cordelia is thrust, and the morally muddy actions of her lover Aral which are born out of circumstance and which must be reconciled in the course of the story.  At best, Jaran is 'Bujold lite', but why read such a book when you can read Bujold directly?d untrustworthy.  Not a great thing for your romantic lead to display!  (A handful of supporting characters are more textured and entertaining, but their screen time is all-too-brief.)<br />These two flaws come together to undermine the climax:  Neither Tess or Ilya really has to give anything up or lose anything to get what they want.  They don't truly have any tough decisions to make, no strong outside forces pushing them to go one way or the other.  They just need to decide whether they want A or B, and it's pretty much theirs for the taking.  There's no dramatic tension in the story.<br />Finally, while the setting of Jaran is scenic and lush, it's also fairly generic.  The culture of Ilya's people is not particularly innovative or compelling.  It reads like a standard mass-market fantasy novel.  The few intriguing elements - involving humanity's relationship with the Chapalii - are shoved aside roughly in favor of the tedious romance.<br />While reading Jaran I felt that the story felt much like Lois McMaster Bujold's novels Shards of Honor and Barrayar, but without the elements that made Bujold's novels work:  The strong, deep characters, the powerful outside forces working against them, and complex and difficult culture of Barrayar into which the heroine Cordelia is thrust, and the morally muddy actions of her lover Aral which are born out of circumstance and which must be reconciled in the course of the story.  At best, Jaran is 'Bujold lite', but why read such a book when you can read Bujold directly?	2001-11-13
US	52580048	R3B2RJBRSHIJL0	0380819007	225010826	Mendoza in Hollywood (A Novel of the Company, Book 3)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Haphazardly plotted, but a fun supporting cast	Mendoza in Hollywood falls somewhere above In the Garden of Iden and somewhere below Sky Coyote in terms of quality, when considering it as part of Baker's Dr. Zeus series. It advances the overall plot along and shows us a lot of details involving the lives of the company's immortal cyborgs, but the novel's plot ranges all over the place, with little sense of tension or urgency until the very end. It seems to be a \\"bridge\\" novel between two halves of a story.<br />The novel follows Mendoza during her few months' stay with a cyborg outpost in Hollywood, 1862-63. These cyborgs don't have a grand mission as in the first two books; rather, they're just sitting around gathering physical and sociological evidence and data about the locale and era. As a result, they're bored a lot and spend most of their time thinking about their place and time in history. Sound dull? It's not as bad as it sounds, largely because the supporting cast is eccentric and amusing, resulting in a series of vignettes they get tangled up in during the year.<br />The book's problem other than its plot is its narrator. Mendoza is a pretty dull character: Shallowly introspective, often wallowing in self-pity, and only vaguely amusing (unlike Joseph, the humorous and self-aware narrator of Sky Coyote), her dispassionate view of the world around her makes everything seem flat and gray. Fortunately, her supporting cast saves the day through their backgrounds and antics (the fellow who's keeping tabs on his mortal family in Mexico; the young immortal who rescues and collects birds;...), and it turns out that 1860s Hollywood has a few interesting phenomena around it which add to the ongoing Dr. Zeus mystery. (Unfortunately, Baker decides in the middle of the book to take us on a 40-page aside into one of D.W. Griffith's silent films, which is as interminable a piece of reading as you'll find in science fiction.)<br />The story takes an abrupt turn in the last 100 or so pages, when a ghost from Mendoza's past appears and sends her off on a peculiar adventure, which reveal new mysteries for the reader of the whole series to wonder about. But it doesn't really fit into the overall tone of the book, feeling entirely tacked-on to the story. The book doesn't really end so much as stop.<br />The bottom line is that this book lays some more groundwork for whatever conclusion to the series Baker is building towards, and provides some lively reading for most of its pages, but it's neither a deep nor a particularly satisfying installment, as it lacks the closure which Sky Coyote had. Hopefully the next book will be better.st appears and sends her off on a peculiar adventure, which reveal new mysteries for the reader of the whole series to wonder about. But it doesn't really fit into the overall tone of the book, feeling entirely tacked-on to the story. The book doesn't really end so much as stop.<br />The bottom line is that this book lays some more groundwork for whatever conclusion to the series Baker is building towards, and provides some lively reading for most of its pages, but it's neither a deep nor a particularly satisfying installment, as it lacks the closure which Sky Coyote had. Hopefully the next book will be better.	2001-09-11
US	52580048	R3GP7EDDQL1REF	0380731800	701049138	Sky Coyote (A Novel of the Company, Book 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	If only the series had started with this book!	In The Garden of Iden, Baker's first novel in the &quot;Company&quot; series, gave us a tantalizing glimpse of a future company, Dr. Zeus, manipulating the strands of unrecorded history for its own benefit.  Unfortunately, it was too wrapped up in its dreary tale of misbegotten love in 16th-century England to serve up much meat about this intriguing concept, resulting in a depressing and disappointing novel.<br />But I'm happy to say that its sequel Sky Coyote follows through on everything that Iden promised, and is a rollicking good read, to boot!<br />Narrator Joseph has a rare view of the world, being one of the company's oldest Immortals, and his wry commentary on his peers, and on the mortals he interacts with to carry out his missions for Dr. Zeus.  After a lively prologue in which he and Mendoza (dislikeable as ever, but more fun as a foil for Joseph-as-protagonist) are reunited, they head off to California in 1700 to &quot;save&quot; a city of Chumash indians.<br />Joseph's interaction with the Chumash is priceless: Augmented to look like their god Sky Coyote, he makes proclamations interspersed with peculiar reasoning, and works to convince the natives that he and his &quot;spirits&quot; are working to save them from a grisly fate.  What makes it work is the light touch that Baker gives the Chumash, as they use modern slang and have true business savvy.  They're not dumb, even if they are wrapped up in a religious system that seems peculiar to us.  Baker always treats them with respect, which more than anything else makes them come alive as believable characters.<br />But best of all, we learn about Joseph's own history dating back to prehistory, and how Dr. Zeus has slyly been handling the Immortals over the last 2000 years, revealing some dark shadows which our heroes will have to grapple with in books to come.  On the other hand, all of this is starkly contrasted with the bumbling, snivelling, pampered company mortals sent back from 2355 to oversee the Chumash operation.  Which is the real Dr. Zeus, if any?  There's a lot for Joseph and the reader to think on and look forward to, here.<br />The book is still somewhat flawed in that the Immortals are still basically an unlikeable lot, and Joseph seems like the only one of them with any character.  Still, this complaint is small potatoes; Joseph's narration makes up for a lot.<br />Sky Coyote pays off handsomely, and has me looking forward to reading the next book in the series (even if the series could have a less bland title than &quot;The Company&quot;).  It took me a long time to get around to reading this, after the disappointment of Iden, but I'm glad I did, and you will be, too.humash operation.  Which is the real Dr. Zeus, if any?  There's a lot for Joseph and the reader to think on and look forward to, here.<br />The book is still somewhat flawed in that the Immortals are still basically an unlikeable lot, and Joseph seems like the only one of them with any character.  Still, this complaint is small potatoes; Joseph's narration makes up for a lot.<br />Sky Coyote pays off handsomely, and has me looking forward to reading the next book in the series (even if the series could have a less bland title than &quot;The Company&quot;).  It took me a long time to get around to reading this, after the disappointment of Iden, but I'm glad I did, and you will be, too.	2001-07-31
US	52580048	RG2E77AD8AHY1	0553260456	734369295	Fire Watch	Books	2	2	11	N	N	Weak plots, unsatisfying resolutions.  Avoid.	Having previously read and enjoyed Willis' novel Bellwether (and, somewhat more problematically, Doomsday Book), I found myself tremendously disappointed in this collection of her early short fiction.<br />The high point of the collection is &quot;Blued Moon&quot;, which shares much in common with Bellwether:  A light touch to the script, engaging characters, and a comedic flair.  Even a touch of romance.  It's also a story whose resolution makes sense and is satisfying on its own terms.<br />But those points are exactly what's lacking in most other stories here.  The title story, for instance, is little more than a blueprint for Doomsday Book, but it has nothing to say that isn't said better in that (later) novel.  The actions of the characters in the resolution is even somewhat befuddling.  And it's one of the better stories in the book.  (To be fair, it might read better for someone who hasn't already read Doomsday Book, but that novel makes this story superfluous.)<br />At the other end of the spectrum is &quot;All My Darling Daughters&quot; which - at best - seems a reminiscence of how nasty some people found their teenage years.  Beyond that, though, it's got a science fictional element (strange animals which the boys on the orbiting boarding school adopt) which is never explained, and no noticible plot with no discernable resolution.  &quot;What was the point of that?&quot; was my reaction upon finishing it.<br />In between are one-note joke stories (&quot;Mail-Order Clone&quot;), predestrian post-apocalyptic yarns (&quot;A Letter from the Clearys&quot;, mysteriously presented in the author's preface as having a surprising twist, although nothing in it seemed out of the ordinary to me), and a straightforward ghost story (&quot;Service for the Burial of the Dead&quot;).  And most of the stories are only borderline science fiction (or even fantasy).  The one full-on SF yarn, &quot;The Sidon in the Mirror&quot;, is also short on plot and resolution, and even falls down compared to the others in that its setting and distinctive elements (the 'sidon', for instance) are insufficiently described.  It's another &quot;what was the point?&quot; tale.<br />Perhaps these stories best reflect Willis' relative inexperience at this point in her career, but she's done much better.  Whether you're a fan or a newcomer, there's no compelling reason to work through this set of stories.ls down compared to the others in that its setting and distinctive elements (the 'sidon', for instance) are insufficiently described.  It's another &quot;what was the point?&quot; tale.<br />Perhaps these stories best reflect Willis' relative inexperience at this point in her career, but she's done much better.  Whether you're a fan or a newcomer, there's no compelling reason to work through this set of stories.	2001-06-08
US	52580048	R2HAJRNACJXQ24	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	2	14	26	N	N	Disappointing and weakly plotted	For a book subtitled &quot;The life and times of the Wicked Witch of the West&quot;, you might expect that it would be about the Wicked Witch of the West from The Wizard of Oz.  But while wicked is about *a* Wicked Witch of the West, the main character of Elphaba bears little resemblance to the one from the Baum classic.  Indeed, it's a bit of a stretch to say that she's wicked, or even much of a witch.<br />The basic idea behind the book is fine: Everyone is a hero in their own story, so what's the witch's story that she behaved the way she did?  But Wicked goes a step too far and actually claims that Baum's story is a misrepresentation of the facts.  At that point, a reader has to ask what the point of telling such a story is; if Maguire is going to tell a new story then why not use a new character and milieu?<br />The book's biggest problem besides that is its plotting: Elphaba is portrayed as - if not exactly loved, then at least liked or tolerated, but not really a figure of great evil from the perspective of anyone except maybe the Wizard.  And even then, she's so ineffectual that his occasional actions against her lack believable motivation.  Also, the story tries to portray Elphaba as an outcast in a world which is undergoing very difficult times, but her behavior often seems to be random or at least without clear motivation.  Her background - and even her immediate environment, as in the Emerald City chapter - are often sketched in lightly and it's not clear exactly where she stands or why she stands there.<br />But Elphaba is at least a likable character who stands up for things (even if sometimes in peculiar ways).  Most of the other characters are half-formed, and drift in and out of the story haphazardly, their stories half-told, if that.  The background of the Wizard, for instance, is shrouded in mystery, and it seems clear that he didn't come from *our* world.  Glinda appears in about a third of the book, but her character goes south (so to speak) after that for reasons that are never examined.  There's a lot of story here which is just shunted aside, including the implication that Elphaba has been manipulated since birth by several outside forces for reasons that are never satisfactorily explained.<br />The book is at its best in its wordplay and its interactions between the main characters during Elphaba's college years, when Glinda and some other characters are given some emphasis.  The moral issues surrounding the magical elements of Oz are explored in an intriguing way, although that thread, too, is never really finished.  And the dialogue is often quite witty.<br />But ultimately the book peters out with the well-known fate of the Witch, its lingering message seeming to be that sometimes life just sucks.  But we knew that; did we really need another 400-page novel about it?er that for reasons that are never examined.  There's a lot of story here which is just shunted aside, including the implication that Elphaba has been manipulated since birth by several outside forces for reasons that are never satisfactorily explained.<br />The book is at its best in its wordplay and its interactions between the main characters during Elphaba's college years, when Glinda and some other characters are given some emphasis.  The moral issues surrounding the magical elements of Oz are explored in an intriguing way, although that thread, too, is never really finished.  And the dialogue is often quite witty.<br />But ultimately the book peters out with the well-known fate of the Witch, its lingering message seeming to be that sometimes life just sucks.  But we knew that; did we really need another 400-page novel about it?	2001-04-12
US	52580048	R1U8XMVOK79ZTQ	0785107533	813486068	The Inhumans	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Jenkins and Lee are making a name for themselves	Based on their current series Sentry, I decided to give Jenkins and Lee's previous series, Inhumans, a try by picking up this book.  And a very pleasant surprise it is!  Jenkins crafts a story about an outcast group of superhumans under their enigmatic, mute leader Black Bolt and his royal family, living in their city of Atillan behind an impenetrable dome on a remnant island of the former Atlantis.  Black Bolt's mad brother Maximus launches a subtle and devastating plan to recapture the crown, hinging on the Inhumans' isolation from the rest of the world.  Told in a mixture of sweeping narrative and down-to-earth thoughts and experiences of Black Bolt's subjects, Jenkins effectively humanizes the inhumans while still making them seem apart from mankind.<br />Lee's art is a fine companion to this story; he's come a long way from his muddy work on Namor in the early 90s.  Stylish and haunting, his figures nonetheless have a sense of reality to them (well, as much as figures with green skin, scales and wings can seem 'real'), and his layouts are similar to Kelley Jones' art on Sandman.<br />The book falls short of perfect, however.  The story leaves open questions such as why the Inhumans returned to Earth (they've been living on the moon for the last several years, which seemed to be the perfect solution to the fact that Earth's polluted atmosphere is poisoning them; new readers of the Inhumans may be confused as to exactly where they've returned *from*), and the ultimate plan behind all of the actions here only barely makes any sense (it seems an awfully high price to pay for the stated goals).  Lee's artwork often seems a little too focused on the figures, leaving the backgrounds in shadow and making everything feel detached.  More attention to the characters' surroundings would make the story feel even lusher.<br />But ultimately this is a very rewarding book, not quite like anything else out there.	2001-01-21
US	52580048	RDH5MEAD2A2ER	1563525100	900931794	Pickles	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A hilarious comic strip, but the collection is incomplete	I discovered Pickles in the San Jose Mercury News when I moved to California.  It focuses on Earl and Opal, a senior couple who celebrate their fiftieth wedding anniversary during the strip, supported by their dog Roscoe, their curmudgeonly cat Muffin, their divorced daughter Sylvia, their grandson Nelson, and Earl's partner-in-procrastination Clyde.  The strip centers around Earl and Opal dealing with the little things in life that they have to contend with as a retired couple, and a lot of the humor comes from various characters trying to one-up each other, with.  What really makes the strip work is Crane's ability to write and pace dialogue, and the combination of meaning and inscrutability he imparts to his characters' expressions.<br />Crane's no Bill Watterson, but his clean linework and attention to body language and detail, along with the verbal jousting, recalls Calvin and Hobbes' sense of whimsy.  Even though the strip often treads the expected ground of sight, hearing and memory loss, it all seems fresh and newly-silly here.  The strip is best characterized as &quot;playful&quot;, and this book made me laugh out loud several times.<br />The big flaw in the book is that it (as well as its sequel, Pickles, Too) is not complete.  It's a sampling of strips from 1994 to 1998, mixed more-or-less randomly, and sometimes a strip which is part of a longer sequence is presented out of context, or a storyline ends abruptly after only two or three strips.  Pickles is good enough that it deserves complete reprinting, and it's unfortunate that the publisher chose this scattershot method of presenting Crane's work.  Hopefully someday this error will be rectified.<br />But until that day, this is still a fine collection to add to your bookshelf.	2001-01-19
US	52580048	R2Y76KNJK9XDUM	031287054X	31473389	The Miocene Arrow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Even better than its precursor!	McMullen's sequel to Souls in the Great Machine is even more enjoyable than its predecessor (although you should read Souls first to fully enjoy this one).  Although Souls is higher in &quot;ideas content&quot;, The Miocene Arrow is better written and more focused.<br />The central theme of Arrow is the vast changes wrought by the indroduction of foreign agents and ideas into a carefully regulated society.  In the enclave of Mounthaven, nobles fly modest gas-powered vehicles, and wars are fought by duels between nobles.  When infiltrators from Australica introduce the idea of total war into this society, everything changes forever, and the side which adapts fastest and surest is most likely to survive the resulting power struggle.  (In a sense, this is exactly the same theme which drives the film Star Wars: The Phantom Menace, except Arrow is a much better story.)  We're introduced to Mounthaven as it's existed for centuries, and then we follow the evolution of several states in the enclave as they come to grips with the changing world around them, and see the leaders grapple with the conflict between their traditions and ideals, and the practical necessities of what the new world means to them and their people.  (Fans of H. Beam Piper's novel Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen in particular might enjoy this novel.)<br />McMullen tells the story through the experiences of his key characters, who are major players in the central conflict in different ways.  McMullen's biting and often witty dialogue is sharply honed in the book, and his plotting is much stronger than in Souls, without some of the hiccups which hampered segments of that book.  Better yet, McMullen sets up a dramatic and painfully star-crossed relationship between two of the protagonists which makes for some of the most moving moments in the story.<br />If there's a flaw in the book, it's that the title is not perhaps the most appropriate given the story, and the climax a little too obviously sets up the potential for another installment.  Still, if McMullen continues to develop as a writer, a sequel to this one would be more than welcome.al for another installment.  Still, if McMullen continues to develop as a writer, a sequel to this one would be more than welcome.	2001-01-14
US	52580048	R36PX42M51GC5G	0061043540	815700998	The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The best pure mystery in the Wimsey series	This is one of my three favorite novels in the Lord Peter Wimsey series (the other two are Clouds of Witness and Murder Must Advertise), and it's the best solid mystery in the series.  By this point, Sayers was concocting more complicated plots involving trickier clues, issues of timing, and calculated motivations.  In this book, old General Fentiman dies at a gentleman's club, but it turns out that the exact time of his death relative to the death of the wealthy Lady Dormer he'd once known, as if she died first, then he (and hence his heirs) inherit the bulk of her wealth, whereas if he died first then Ann Dorland, who's lived with Lady Dormer for several years, inherits most of the money.<br />Wimsey, a member of the club, is asked to discreetly investigate, a situation complicated by the fact that he's friends with both of General Fentiman's heirs, and that Ann Dorland - not unexpectedly - is reluctant to contribute anything which might result in someone else receiving the money.  So Wimsey is left to discover when the General died, whether anyone tried to hide this information, and who stands to gain from it.  Sayers mixes in plenty of atmosphere of 1920s English civility (with a brief aside to the art culture of the time), and paints a variety of interesting and sympathetic characters.  The end result is an entirely satisfying mystery.	2000-12-16
US	52580048	R1AK82E9C7NT78	0061043532	776161189	Clouds of Witness	Books	4	32	33	N	N	The ideal introduction to Wimsey and his world	This is one of my three favorite Lord Peter Wimsey novels (the other two are The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club and Murder Must Advertise), and unless you plan to read the entire series (in which case you should start with Unnatural Death), it's the best introduction to Wimsey and his world, as it revolves around his brother Gerald, the Duke of Denver, being accused of murdering their sister Mary's fiance.  It also features Wimsey's friend Chief Inspector Parker, as well as introducing several recurring characters.<br />Unlike Unnatural Death, where Wimsey seems more devil-may-care and speaks in more slang-y sentences, this book shows a more mature Wimsey who's fully aware of his duties to his family and the responsibilities of his position in life (an occasional theme in the series), and we see that Wimsey is far from being merely a man about London.<br />The mystery itself is one of the more clever ones in the series, revolving around holes in Gerald's testimony which Wimsey must investigate, as well as the background of the murder victim, although the final resolution seems not to completely justify the build-up.  (This is common in Sayers' mysteries; the setting and characters tend to be stronger than the puzzle driving the plot.)  Overall, though, it's an entertaining book, featuring more moments of dramatic suspense than in the later novels, making it perhaps the most well-rounded Wimsey adventure.	2000-12-16
US	52580048	RMFKFGA5DBBKJ	0061043559	422508986	Murder Must Advertise (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Lord Peter at his most whimsical!	This is one of my three favorite Lord Peter Wimsey novels (the other two are Clouds of Witness and The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club), and it's my favorite of the &quot;later period&quot; (1930s) stories (in some part because it doesn't feature Wimsey's paramour, Harriet Vane, whom I often found rather dull).  This book is Wimsey at his most whimsical, though because it is to some degree an extreme example of Wimsey's character, it's probably best enjoyed by people who have read the earlier books.<br />Sayers apparently worked in the advertising business herself for some years, and in this story Wimsey goes undercover as &quot;Death Bredon&quot; (his middle names) at Pym's Publicity to investigate the death of a copy-writer who fell down a spiral staircase.  As a result, Sayers pokes all kinds of fun at the advertising business, as well as drawing an enlightening sketch of what that business is like.  More than one person who's read this novel has commented to me that it seems that advertising hasn't changed much in the last seventy years!<br />The victim himself had been running with a fast, drug-taking crowd, which Wimsey infiltrates to tragicomic effect, and when his contacts with this ne'er-do-well group meet his upper-class family later on, he's put in the surreal position of... well, read the novel; the ultimate payoff of this thread is one of the funniest moments in the whole series!  The book also includes a chapter featuring everyone's favorite incomprehensible English sport: A Cricket match, which as it turns out fits right in with the rest of the book in both style and outcome.<br />The mystery itself is about average for Wimsey's adventures, and is a bit more hard-core than we'd usually expect.  But that aside, this is a funny, flamboyant, and educational novel, perhaps the most rewarding overall of all of Lord Peter's stories.	2000-12-16
US	52580048	R16SZHMOXQQGJ1	0312873352	42353892	The Sky Road (Fall Revolution)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A disappointing continuation of the series	After its two thrilling predecessors, The Stone Canal and The Cassini Division, The Sky Road turns out to be a disappointment.  For one thing, it depicts a world which seems decidedly inconsistent with the backdrop of The Cassini Division - which should occur between the two threads present in this book.  For another, the technology of The Sky Road is much lower than in earlier books, with only slight incremental improvements on what we have today in the year 2000 (plus a powerful artificial intelligence who mostly stays in the background).<br />Thematically, I suppose The Sky Road is about individuals who become disillusioned with their beliefs over time, although it's a weakly-portrayed theme.  Otherwise, the book presents a moral dilemma for its character Myra in the year 2058, who grapples with it in ultimately unsatisfying ways (her ultimate solution is telegraphed a mile away), and a voyage of discovery for its character Clovis, farther in the future (the 26th century?) as he learns about the legendary figure of Myra and discovers what his lover Merrial is up to.<br />The sense of wonder is low, and although this book might be a decent build-up to another book, the end leaves you wondering, &quot;That's it?  What happens next?&quot;  Which isn't what one really wants out of a novel.<br />As always, MacLeod's writing is fine, his characters enjoyable, and his mixture of politics with science fiction engaging.  Unfortunately, it's all in the service of a rather bland story here.  His earlier work is much better.	2000-10-14
US	52580048	RM565MKD4PBNS	0312872569	930510576	Souls in the Great Machine (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Sophisticated, powerful, and satisfying	Souls in the Great Machine at times feels like a medieval novel with guns (it's similar in some ways to H. Beam Piper's novel Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen), but it's also satisfying as a work of science fiction since its premises are reasonable and explained.  It's one of those settings where high-tech is simulated with low-tech, with some additional high-tech beyond the control of the characters thrown in.<br />At its core, though, it's the story of three people and the quests that drive them: Zarvora Cybeline, who wants to save the world from a threat from space; Lemorel Milderellen, who wants to be loved and valued; and John Glasken, the rake, who wants to enjoy himself but is thwarted at every turn by powerful enemies he collects.  Thematically, Zarvora's and Glasken's quests and redemptions are complicated and thought-provoking (and often very sexually charged, although the use of sex is not generally gratuitous).  Lemorel's story is less successful, as she begins with a redemption of sorts, and then goes downhill for little apparent reason.<br />McMullen juggles all of these threads expertly, and does an impressive job of building a world living under some serious constraints that we don't have today.  And the over-arching threats are not neglected, either.  It is, however, a very dark and tense novel with characters who are sometimes difficult to support or relate to.  But to some degree, that's what makes it interesting.  It's well worth the effort to read.	2000-10-09
US	52580048	RQN82SAYADIT3	0380810514	317491883	Man of Two Worlds:: My Life in Science Fiction and Comics	Books	3	4	9	N	N	More entertaining than informative	Schwartz' memoir tops out at about 190 pages, which seems rather thin considering he worked in the SF and comic book industries for over 50 years.  His writing style is jovial (though the spelling and punctuation errors are off-putting), and the stories tremendously entertaining.<br />What's missing is more depth to his tales.  Sure, it's a memoir, not an autobiography, and Schwartz doesn't seem to want to dish any &quot;dirt&quot; on the people he's worked with, but it seems like he glosses over frictions between creators, and sometimes completely overlooks interesting matters (such as how and why the Earth-1/Earth-2 stories in 50s and 60s DC comics came into being and remained popular).<br />Schwartz is clearly more interested in being an entertainer, and that's fine, as he's got a lot to entertain us with.  But as a contribution to the understanding of the history of comics and science fiction, Man of Two Worlds is something of a disappointment.  It's still worth reading if you're a serious fan of either genre, though.	2000-09-30
US	52580048	R1SWENEOZXWRWN	0930289560	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum	Books	1	10	22	N	N	Pedestrian story, muddy artwork	It was never clear to me what Arkham Asylum was intended to accomplish.  The plot has been done many times before, after all: Batman is forced to fight his most dangerous villains in large numbers.  Writer Grant Morrison changes this slightly by putting Batman inside Arkham Asylum and (in theory) at their mercy, although the difference is slight.  There's some superficial exploration of the dementias which afflict the various villains, but this is done only briefly for any individual villain, and these explorations have been done in more depth elsewhere.  Ultimately, the story is not much more than a running fight with pseudo-psychological overtones.<br />Artist Dave McKean was - with Bill Sienkiewicz - one of the pioneers of fully-painted American comic books.  But, also like Sienkiewicz, his layouts were had little sense of dynamism, and his actual technique was muddy and confusing, trying to express something which ended up compleely hidden by the layers of color.  While this added a certain claustrophobic uneasiness to Morrison's script, it doesn't really work as storytelling.  With the benefit of hindsight, we can see now that McKean's style is rather primordial, and that it's been improved on tremendously by artists such as Alex Ross, who finally broke through to make painted artwork mainstream in American comics in the 90s.<br />Arkham Asylum is, therefore, perhaps a historical curiosity, but it's not really to be read and enjoyed.  Morrison, in particular, has done far better work.	2000-09-22
US	52580048	RJ1AH46FPI4SU	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Entertaining, but the plot frustrated me	Doomsday Book's strengths include the well-researched and plausible setting of 14th century rural England, a good portrayal of epidemics and  how to deal with them, a variety of themes and imagery (try figuring out  each character's analogue in the other time period), and of course Willis'  fine writing and dialogue.  Rarely resorting to exposition, her characters  and lively and vivid, and you care for them.<br />The book's problems mostly  stem from its plot, which disappoints: Some characters behave willfully  stupidly and for no apparent reason than to keep the plot moving.  One  character is off-stage from the very beginning to get the plot started and  his absence is never satisfactorily explained.  Finally, there's no  unification of the plots in the seperate time periods; I kept waiting for  the grand explanation of what was going on, and was sorely disappointed.   The book also needed another chapter or two of denouement; it ends rather  abrupty.<br />So while the middle of the book is quite a page-turner, and I  wouldn't tell anyone NOT to read it, I wouldn't go out of my way to  recommend this novel to someone, either.	2000-09-14
US	52580048	R35S4SCZVJ3ELT	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Entertaining, but the plot frustrated me	Doomsday Book's strengths include the well-researched and plausible setting of 14th century rural England, a good portrayal of epidemics and  how to deal with them, a variety of themes and imagery (try figuring out  each character's analogue in the other time period), and of course Willis'  fine writing and dialogue.  Rarely resorting to exposition, her characters  and lively and vivid, and you care for them.<br />The book's problems mostly  stem from its plot, which disappoints: Some characters behave willfully  stupidly and for no apparent reason than to keep the plot moving.  One  character is off-stage from the very beginning to get the plot started and  his absence is never satisfactorily explained.  Finally, there's no  unification of the plots in the seperate time periods; I kept waiting for  the grand explanation of what was going on, and was sorely disappointed.  The book also needed another chapter or two of denouement; it ends rather  abrupty.<br />So while the middle of the book is quite a page-turner, and I  wouldn't tell anyone NOT to read it, I wouldn't go out of my way to  recommend this novel to someone, either.	2000-09-14
US	52580048	R1DXRLV0SFQVH1	0575400552	223677280	Voice of the Fire	Books	1	33	80	N	N	Perhaps Moore's weakest work ever	I've been reading Moore's comics writing for 15 years, and sought out a copy of this book based on its intriguing premise: A look at the darker  history of the world over 5000 years from a single place in  England.<br />Unfortunately, the book is all style and almost no substance.  There's the &quot;mangled English&quot; chapter, the &quot;no  punctuation&quot; chapter, the &quot;told by a dead man&quot; chapter, and  everything is told in first person present tense.  The final chapter  introduces another hoary and annoying literary trick, and none of these  tricks are in the least interesting.  They just make the book harder to  read.<br />The book itself is a collection of tenuously linked short stories,  usually involving characters who come to bad ends.  The story suggests an  obsession with sex and death, and it often does its best to get in as many  erotic and/or scatalogical references as it can.  There's no overall plot  or even theme to the stories, and at one point the text itself suggests  that anyone looking for meaning or redemption is going to be  disappointed.<br />And disappointing it is.  Other than the clever second  chapter about a woman who impersonates a woman she murdered to gain a dying  shaman's riches, Voice of the Fire is a struggle to get through all the  way.  Even if you find a copy of this book, I wouldn't bother with it.  I  was bitterly disappointed with it.	2000-08-31
US	52580048	R25CNQB8SLA4L9	0613015703	887183858	Hunting Dinosaurs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful piece of photojournalism	Psihoyos, a photographer for National Geographic, has written a tremendous book about dinosaurs as we understand them today.  Central to the book, of  course, are Psihoyos' terrific photographs: Of fossils in museums, of  individuals in their workplaces, of the beautiful landscapes to which  paleontologists travel to search for bones, and of the bones themselves in  varying states of discovery and repair.  All by itself, this book gives you  a deep respect for what really good photographers can accomplish with their  craft.<br />Psihoyos also turns out to be a lively and witty writer, and the  book provides a good general background on what we understand of dinosaurs  and how they lived, as well as a history of dinosaur hunters dating back to  the mid-19th century.  I've been a casual &quot;fan&quot; of dinosaurs  since childhood, and much of what's related here was completely unknown to  me.  Psihoyos outlines several of the controversies in the history of  dinosaur digging, including the discovery of the reptile-bird  archaeopterix, and the wars between the two great bone hunters of the late  19th century.<br />Along the way he also caught a few big breaks, such as  discovering that there was no &quot;type specimen&quot; (defining example)  for homo sapiens (humans), as well as getting caught up in the Tyrannosaur  Sue controversy which resulted in lawsuits and jail time for some of those  involved.<br />Anyone with any amount of interest in dinosaurs - from casual  to deep - should find this book entertaining, and maybe even enlightening.   For the pictures alone, it's a steal.	2000-08-13
US	52580048	RMHEJ0EO7CMW7	0553280643	542044764	The Gate to Women's Country	Books	2	18	28	N	N	Heavy-handed and hard to get through	This is the third Tepper book I've read, and I'm not a big fan.  (I read this for a book discussion.) To be sure, Tepper has her strong points:  Sentence-to-sentence she's a fine writer, often quite evocative.  Her  characters are well-drawn, and she tantalizes with the gradual revelation  of her settings and their backgrounds.  The Gate to Women's Country has all  of these.<br />Its achilles heel is that it's terribly heavy-handed, painting  its strongest male characters as brutes whose base instincts overpower  their reason.  The women have similar issues, but for them the issues are  treated as something natural-if-pitiful, while for the men they're  terrible, loathesome things.  The whole chain of reasoning here is fairly  difficult to swallow.  To be fair, I suspect that I'm not part of the  book's target audience, being a male and one who's already sympathetic to  feminist issues.  Moreover, one could argue that Tepper is presenting a  certain set of men in this negative light (there is another group who  behave differently, although they are not given nearly as much &quot;screen  time&quot; and we rarely get into their heads), and that she concocts an  explanation for why they are so, but it still makes for terribly difficult  reading.<br />Structurally the book has other problems: It's a sort of  morality tale set in its peculiar world, about the burdens those in charge  bear and the impact they have on those around them.  Additional characters  and settings materialize haphazardly at times in the story, and their value  seems slight (e.g., the character of Septemius Bird).  The overall sense of  conflict seems somewhat contrived, as though a few people &quot;in the  know&quot; in the book could have stopped things before they went too far.  And overall the book is relentlessly melancholy, almost never presenting  any sense of joy or hope.<br />A really, really tough read, and ultimately not  really worth it, I felt.	2000-08-13
US	52580048	RYA1XDJQ4OD01	0140139966	365951940	How Buildings Learn: What Happens After They're Built	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A fascinating book about buildings changing over time	I'm always fascinated with how seemingly impersonal forces effect changes  over time.  This book is about exactly that: Although people are  responsible for changes to a building, over a long period of time and many  owners the reasons for the changes become obscure and the effects of many  different changes turn the structure into something unique.<br />Brand  includes hundreds of examples of &quot;rephotography&quot;: Photos of a  location taken at many times from roughly the same angle to illustrate the  changes.  (Among the best are 140 years of photos of San Francisco's Cliff  House, which burned down at least twice.)  He examines both structural and  cosmetic changes to a building, as well as the ephemeral changes to the  people and things inside a building which change much more rapidly.  He  also considers a few buildings which were designed from whole cloth, and as  a result are both resistant to change, and decidedly more cold and  unlivable regardless of their artistic merits.<br />Brand's friendly, yet  often opinionated, writing style is tremendously engaging, and unlike many  non-fiction books there's rarely a sense that he's repeating the same ideas  over and over: There's always something new here, more lovely photos to  look at.  And it imparts Brand's love of the organic, living man-made  environment where the practical and the aesthetic merge into something  entirely enjoyable.	2000-08-13
US	52580048	R1QUQA4KPUYXWI	0393320081	470778899	Baseball Dynasties: The Greatest Teams of All Time	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A fine companion to Bill James' Hall of Fame book	Neyer worked with Bill James a decade ago, and his shows in this book,  much of which shows the same analytical approach to the history of the game  that James' terrific book Whatever Happened to the Hall of Fame? displayed.  A study of 15 teams of the 20th century who maintained a level of  excellence for a number of years, it's packed with data on the performance  of each team, the individual players, and what made them great in their  time.  Besides the eponymous Yankee teams are less-well-known teams such as  the 1911 Philadelphia Athletics and the 1942 St. Louis Cardinals.<br />Beyond  the straight analysis, each chapter includes sidebars about what else was  going on in the Majors that year, and whole sections on individual players,  including members of the supporting cast who had interesting careers or  performed interesting feats.  Personalities of the players are discussed,  although at a little distance.  There are also chapters on the worst teams  of all time, and great 19th century and negro league teams.<br />The book's  biggest flaw is the brevity of the comparison between the teams in an  effort to choose the greatest team of all time.  I did not find their  arguments persuasive, nor even strongly supported by the evidence elsewhere  in the book.<br />Still, it's a terrific and entertaining look at excellence  in baseball, and a rich resource of baseball history, with pointers to many  other such books.	2000-08-07
US	52580048	R2JE4OBEFXLYD8	0312870442	621367969	The Cassini Division (Fall Revolution)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Terrific hard SF in the Vernor Vinge tradition	Idea-packed science fiction driven by the ramifications of a group of humans who have passed through the evolutionary &quot;singularity&quot; and become something beyond our knowledge, and who now live in Jupiter,  emitting radio viruses forcing Earth to radically change its technology.  If that weren't enough, McLeod also presents an anarcho-socialist society  and contrasts it with an anarcho-capitalist society and does so in a much  more plausible manner than (say) Robert Heinlein ever did.  Protagonist  Ellen is a key member of the Cassini Division, tasked to deal with the  post-humans if necessary, and on a mission to secure a manner in which to  do so.  Her point of view is decidedly prejudiced, which is a big part of  what makes this book enjoyable: It's got characterization, world-building,  AND a plot.  One of the best novels I've read in several years, it's hard  to believe it's under 300 pages.	2000-07-31
