US	52592255	R28MUE6CYCRZFR	1580628362	712773974	Please Stop Laughing At Me...: One Woman's Inspirational Story	Books	1	24	34	N	N	Please Stop Writing About Yourself	Here is what publicists, some like Jodee Blanco, do: They write suggestively misleading back cover copy like &quot;You will be shocked, moved and ultimately inspired by this harrowing tale of insurmountable odds. This vivid story will open your eyes to the harsh realities and long-term consequences of bullying -- and how all of us can make a difference in the lives of teens today.&quot; (I'm not suggesting that Blanco wrote this copy -- it's too concise and well-written to be from the same person who wrote the guts of this mess.) I was not shocked, moved or inspired by Jodee's tale. I agree that it's sad that she was bullied throughout her school years, and that she had to deal with some physical challenges, but what part of that haven't we heard (or lived) a thousand times before? How does this help kids being bullied today? And if the odds are truly insurmountable, are we to believe she succumbed to a life of miserable failure? Doesn't insurmountable mean it can't be overcome? For God's sake, by all definitions of success in the sleazy world of publicity, Blanco's not only beaten the odds, she's on top of the world! Heck, she's worked with Muhammad Ali! And &quot;the harsh realities&quot;? Yep, her experience is an example of the harsh reality of bullying. That's the point. It's reality. It happened. It's happening still. But does she provide any solutions or suggestions (besides asking us not to laugh at her, oh right, &quot;please&quot; don't laugh at her -- we must be polite when addressing a bully)? No, just write a book like it's another publicity event and people will fall all over themselves saying, &quot;Yes, that's how it was for me too (or is for my child). Thanks for sharing. Now what time is Dr. Laura on?&quot; I do pity her, just not in the context she would hope. Some things this book does illustrate are the &quot;long-term consequences of bullying.&quot; Obviously being bullied ensures you'll become a self-righteous, self-absorbed, insecure adult who measures success by how many celebrities she knows. Yes, I'll stop laughing at you. As soon as you quit writing such hilarious tripe.	2003-09-08
US	52592255	R3O68DTHCR0H6H	0971807639	708639786	Anna's Friends	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I May Be Biased, But I'm Honest Too	As a friend of the family who lived the story of this book as it happened, I'd be a fool to deny my bias as I clicked the 5-star rating button. But I think I'd be doing a greater disservice by not endorsing this precious nugget of publishing as enthusiastically as possible. It would be a shame to categorize Anna's Friends as merely a diary of a family tragedy, though its style and topic could surely lead one to do so. Instead, I consider it a lesson in how life should be lived and what we can learn from the challenges it presents us. John and Kathleen write honestly and clearly, with love, compassion, confusion, sadness and joy. And to understand that this isn't a retrospective look at their ordeal, but an honest and revealing day to day accounting of what it took for them to reconcile and deal with the terminal illness of their baby daughter makes the clarity of their writing and thinking even more remarkable. I treasure the relationship I had with Anna and am proud to be considered one of her friends. I'm even more touched that John and Kathleen would have the courage and faith to publish this important and universally touching tribute to not only their daughter, but the beauty of life and love. We can all take comfort in knowing that books, and people, like this exist.	2003-03-05
US	52592255	R213A6PFRUCAXT	0970335555	555874448	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Darn Fine Writer; Pretty Decent Book	This is no question in this reader's mind that Dave Eggers is a talented and engaging writer. There are sections of this book, as there were in AHWOSG, that are amazingly conceived and executed, as perfectly written as anything I've read. When I get to one of those sections -- be it a paragraph or 20 pages -- I feel like I'm in the story, it's so personal and sincere. However, and with Eggers there always seems to be a however, there aren't enough of those sections to overcome an only better than average plot and really \\"bad\\" editing to lift this book into 4 or 5 star territory. <br />Still, I happy to admit I did enjoy this book. The characters are consistent and truly imagined. The self-doubt and confusion of Will is easy to understand, though his inner conversations tended to get on my nerves a little bit and parts of this internal dialogue tended toward preachy. The fact that it literally took mne around the world is worth something too.<br />Go ahead and read this book. It's worth it. Just be prepared to find a lot of typos, bad pagination, etc. I suppose those are the perils of self-publishing, but they do detract from an otherwise well-done novel.	2003-02-14
US	52592255	R1DRI13X3JDBPU	0970335555	555874448	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Books	3	64	83	N	N	Damn Fine Writer; Pretty Decent Book	This is no question in this reader's mind that Dave Eggers is a talented and engaging writer. There are sections of this book, as there were in AHWOSG, that are amazingly conceived and executed, as perfectly written as anything I've read. When I get to one of those sections -- be it a paragraph or 20 pages -- I feel like I'm in the story, it's so personal and sincere. However, and with Eggers there always seems to be a however, there aren't enough of those sections to overcome an only better than average plot and really [bad] editing to lift this book into 4 or 5 star territory. <br />Still, I happy to admit I did enjoy this book. The characters are consistent and truly imagined. The self-doubt and confusion of Will is easy to understand, though his inner conversations tended to get on my nerves a little bit and parts of this internal dialogue tended toward preachy. The fact that it literally took mne around the world is worth something too.<br />Go ahead and read this book. It's worth it. Just be prepared to find a lot of typos, bad pagination, etc. I suppose those are the perils of self-publishing, but they do detract from an otherwise well-done novel.	2003-02-14
US	52592255	R1MY5MUF9C0C8H	0060934646	598841025	The Dark House: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Page-Turning Fun	Did I love this book? No, but it certainly kept me up past my usual bedtime for a few nights trying to read another page because, no matter how predictable or coincidental the plot sometimes seemed, the story was voyeuristically compelling and rarely boring. I'd recommend it to anyone who appreciates a fresh mystery (although I kept thinking of David Lynch's Blue Velvet, especially early on). The characters were pretty well drawn and I rarely wondered what their motivation was, which I think is key to this type of novel. Don't expect The Dark House to win any literary awards, but don't be surprised if the person on the beach next to you this summer gets sunburned because they don't want to stop reading long enough to put on sunblock.	2002-03-25
US	52592255	R1XLFWUOACYFWW	0786860251	451821699	Elements of Hitting: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Sad Beyond The Story	This is the kind of book that with a better writer may have had a chance. Instead, it's just another poorly executed story by a writer without a lot of talent. The story of the loser son, his fighting and uneducated parents and the tenuous baseball connection around which its story is hatched rings hollow and is perhaps only sightly more compelling reading than the minutes from a local school board meeting. None of the characters are well developed, the story is tired, the stakes are low. I struggled to finish this book and probably only did so because every now and then Jones would break from his formulaic characterizations and predictable plot for a quick flourish of imagination and inspiration. The Elements of Hitting is sad as a story and as a book. It takes a depressing story, which in better hands should have been interesting, and leaves it stranded at first base while the writer strikes out without so much as taking a good swing. And that's sad.	2001-12-12
US	52592255	R2A2RR6S84ERET	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	1	3	77	N	N	Alarmist Fear-Mongering, But Well-Researched!	There is very little purpose for this book other than to create and capitalize on fear. People who are considering hiking in the Grand Canyon would be much better served by reading other, less expensive things -- like signs, NPS brochures and websites. Most people who have hiked or flown over or come within 100 yards of the rim without wetting their pants, know and understand how vast and unforgiving the Canyon can be. That leaves the truly stupid and truly scared as this book's audience -- and the former either can't or won't read it. The scared, however, well, to quote P.T. Barnum, there's one born every minute. For them, and those who need any excuse to justify staying indoors, it's a fine scientific accounting of the recorded deaths in the Grand Canyon (if you count plane crashes at the airport -- in town -- as such) over the years. But really, that's all. It offers little true advice to hikers or visitors that common sense wouldn't already instill. The lists at the end of each chapter serve as a comprehensive list of deaths in the canyon, from which some lessons can be learned. For that reason alone, it gets one star. Don't get sucked in by fear or voyeurism and purchase (or read) this book.	2001-10-24
US	52592255	R1J1HML6AS3VKP	0385720467	133960389	Disobedience: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Book Club Read If There Ever Was One	Disobedience is the type of book for which Book Clubs were created -- there's a universally interesting story, protagonists who could be any one of us, a lot of plotting possibilities and it's appealing to readers who consider themselves a little more discriminating in their tastes for fiction. There's nothing wrong with any of those criteria, it's just that lumped together, you run the risk of achieving the literary equivalent of someone wearing too much perfume in a closed elevator. Disobedience is more like getting on that elevator shortly after the offender has left the scene -- something stinks, but you don't know who to blame.<BR>Still, I liked this book and think Hamilton is a fine writer, one who has a real feel for the pulse of life in the midwest, particularly Wisconsin. I don't think she's as compellingly authentic as Kent Haruf and his Holt, Colorado, stories, but she's convincing nonetheless. As a narrator, Henry Shaw does a good job of reacting as a seventeen year old to learning that his mother is having an affair. It's hard to believe I'd have handled it differently. I struggled a little with the story being told by Henry as an adult, but it didn't change the core story -- how a family exists. I think the infidelity plot is only one way the tale of family dynamics can be adequately illustrated. It's just a sexy way to put family life under the magnifying glass to peel away the lies, deceptions, individuals and concessions that are made in every family every day. Disobedience's Civil War sub-plot works well as a symbol of the uncivil fighting within the family, even when, by all rights, things should be OK. Hamilton's characters are believable (except for possibly the father/husband, who, for all his intelligence, is either blind or ambivalent, neither of which I necessarily buy) and the dialog convincing. Overall, I found Disobedience neither earth-shattering nor offensive. I smelled a little something unpleasant, but got out of the story in plenty of time to enjoy it for being exactly what I imagine Hamilton hoped it would be -- a slightly uncomfortable read about those relations we call our families.	2001-09-06
US	52592255	R1D2IWD0RPBU5G	1566633710	925285140	Once More Around the Park: A Baseball Reader	Books	4	10	12	N	N	If only he weren't a Mets/Red Sox fan!	I'm only half-joking with my title for this review, but I think that speaks to the loyalty and intensity with which baseball fans follow their sport and favorite teams. That said, I say God bless Roger Angell for his insightful writings about the greatest of games. This book is an awesome and vital collection of essays, articles and stories that go beyond simple retelling of the games and innings and moments that are only the most visible aspects of the game. As a lifetime baseball fan, Angell puts into words ideas that I can only feel -- thoughts like, and I paraphrase because I've already lent the book out, &quot;Baseball is cumulative. It rewards the stayer.&quot; I think Angell is at his best when he waxes poetic as opposed to explaining pitching or catching mechanics, but even his lesser essays shine a light on the game that most baseball fans don't have access to on their own. There's only one other baseball collection which I think eclipses this one, and that is &quot;A Great and Glorious Game&quot; by Bart Giamatti, the former Commissioner and academic. Not surprisingly, Angell also recognized Giamatti's genius, and wrote about it while Giamatti was still alive and acting as President of the National League. The story is one of my favotites in this collection. This book is a gem, and even when he writes specifically about his love of the Mets or Sox, I know it's from a true fan of the game and appreciate how important the game is to him, and, in turn, to me.	2001-08-17
US	52592255	R2V1NH776DRKHN	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	4	22	25	N	N	As Advertised	Whatever anyone says about this book is bound to be true -- it is at once touching, self-absorbed, engrossing, shallow, warm, mean, original, derivative, well-written, dischordant. You name the adjective, it probably fits. I enjoyed AHWOSG for its core story -- that of the dying parents and the author's coming of age as not only a person,  but also as both a sibling and a guardian of his seven-year-old brother. That story takes up the better part of the first half of the book and the last 50 or so pages. In fact, the final pages contain passages that I consider some of the finest I've read in a long time. Here, Eggers' boils with the pain of his mother's death and the responsibility of raising his brother and his writing in this part of the book is his most passionate and introspective. The rest of the book is at its worst entertaining, and at its best not particularly enthralling. Anyone who's gone through their twenties probably has as interesting of stories to tell, we just don't necessarily care to hear them. Go ahead and take the time to read AHWOSG. I can't guarantee you'll enjoy it like I did, but I do defy you to use the two descriptors which don't apply to this memoir -- boring or conventional.	2001-07-30
US	52592255	R3BG2JH2KGVV4E	0060955775	622943913	Veronika Decides to Die	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The Moral of The Story Is...	Besides my noggin' being a little sore from being hit over the head so many times with the &quot;Life is beautiful&quot; theme of this richly drawn fable, I don't have any complaints about this book. Coelho paints a convincing story of Veronika as a disaffected young woman to whom life is a hopeless grind. Her attemted suicide gives the author an additional opportunity to comment on the definition of mental health and the appropriateness of how the &quot;insane&quot; are treated. Along the way, we're introduced to a variety of patients (and a curious doctor) who help us learn, over and over again, that our time here is precious and not to be squandered hiding from reality or standing on the sidelines. Like other good fables, the Coelho's writing here is magical and clear. Likewise, it's translation to English doesn't seem to affect its lyrical tone at all. I wasn't surprised by too much that happened in the book, but I don't feel that I was supposed to be. It's an age old tale with a timeless moral. I wouldn't go so far as to define this book as a wake-up call, but it's a nice refresher on the beauty of life with some interesting social thought regarding treatment of the mentally ill worked in as a bonus.	2001-07-16
US	52592255	R1S1S6SEOUAC36	0679744479	324072310	Written on the Body	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fully Realized Love	This book can be summed up in one thought-provoking and heart-breaking line from its slim 190 pages: &quot;Why is the measure of love loss?&quot; That pretty much sums it up; the rest of the book leads up to and then answers that question in a way I would hate to describe in any other way than lyrical. In the process, the reader realizes that the gender of the narrator is inconsequential, only the love story matters. It's as if the best romance novel ever written somehow became literature. This is a book that will keep you asking questions about your own life and loves for a long time to come. It's one of those gems you won't read about very often, but anyone who's read it is sure to recommend it highly.	2001-06-19
US	52592255	R3KUOES9H196HU	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Beautifully Written American Tragedy	Andre Dubus's House of Sand and Fog was a much better book than I expected for a number of reasons, the biggest being that it's intelligent writing and unresolvable plot are not a typical of Oprah Book Club selections. But rising above Oprah isn't what makes it special, only suprising. What gives it its punch is Dubus's development of both the characters and the plot. Not only does the reader understand the dynamics of the immigrant situation, the weakness and uncertainty of a recovering addict and the passive aggressiveness of a troubled cop, but we become sympathetic to each of them. The characters are not merely factions at war with each other, they're humans fighting with their own demons. Reading this book, I continually found myself feeling that I could be any one of these people in the same situation. And that's what drew me into the story so deeply. There are no true villans or heroes here. Just people trying to do what they think is the best thing -- not even what they truly believe to be right. This is not a short book, but it's a page-turner. It's also a relatively simple book to read and even easier to understand, although the story is not easily reconciled. If you usually shy away from Oprah picks, this is one time to put aside any prejudice. If you like generally enjoy her selections, House of Sand and Fog will certainly stand out as onre of the best-written, most distinctive books she's recommended. As a footnote, for those interested in similar immigrant conflict stories, I also highly recommend T.C. Boyle's Tortilla Curtain. Both books are sure to make you more aware of how our country is changing and how we need to change with it.	2001-06-18
US	52592255	R1OA6M7LSOB08M	1891517007	11629846	Sedona Hikes	Books	5	17	19	N	N	What More Could One Ask For?	Accurate, informative, easy to use, clear, concise and loaded with hikes -- what else could a person ask for from a hiking guidebook? My wife an I bought this book from adventuroustraveler.com for a short stay we had in Sedona this spring. Not only did this book help us maximize our time there by making recommendations and providing explicit maps and distances for every hike, but it gave us a lot of useful information about the history and geology of the area. Even though we only had the chance to make a handful of hikes, we feel we got the most out of them, and a lot of that had to do with this book. We look forward to going back to Sedona and taking the book with us and recommend it for anyone else who plans to visit, too.	2001-06-13
US	52592255	R1YVAAU03XKG4M	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Dead is Dead; Life is what Matters	The plot of this book is no secret, so don't think I'm giving anything away here. Celice and Joseph are married scientists/educators who are murdered on the English oceanside during a romantic interlude at the same place where they had first made love years ago. But don't mistake Being Dead for a murder mystery. Instead, Crace would rather lead us to believe that it's a scientic look at death much like Celice and Joseph would look at death. Lurking deeper in the story though, is a look at life, especially Joseph and Celice's. <br />Masterfully written and told in time-twisting progression, we learn that the saddest thing about Joseph and Celice isn't the finality of their deaths, but rather the lovelessness of their lives together. <br />Without spoiling the story, it needs to be said that this book will challenge the beliefs of many readers and could possibly turn some of the more narrow-minded off. This is unfortunate for those readers not only because the story requires a scientific premise, but because it is so well presented. Queasy readers may also turn away from some more graphic passages.<br />Those cautions revealed, Being Dead is one of the best pieces of literature I have read recently, comparable in style, originality and thoughtfulness with Blindness by Jose Saramago and Disgrace by J. M. Coetzee. It hurt me to watch Joseph and Celice's sad lives become exposed, which I think was Crace's intention. I think it also made me think about my own life and the importance of being human and connected with others. Life is precious, and no matter what you might believe about the afterlife, being dead is at the very least the opposite of this life. Live and love are for the living and should be embraced like no other gift we're ever given.	2001-03-27
US	52592255	R2P4K1TXTSWZ54	0679436154	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Just Not Very Compelling to Me	I guess I'm surprised if people don't understand the rampant symbolism of this book. Bombarded by the processing of information, Bill Chalmers shuts down. Granted, The Diagnosis is not nearly that simple, but Lightman's moralizing is pretty clear and direct. His use of e-mail, the Socrates sub-plot, and other device are fine with me. They add to the pacing of the story and don't necessarily detract from it unless you don't believe that people type poorly in e-mails. These aren't the things that made me give The Diagnosis only two stars. Instead, during the course of the book, I found I just wasn't moved by too much of it. The opening sequence is strong and engaging and there are other scenes -- when Chalmers' old friend comes to visit and describes photos he's brought -- that are emotionally engaging. Otherwise, I just wasn't compelled to care. The supporting characters -- his wife, the doctors, the attorneys, even his son -- were transparent and not only were they selfish and uncaring, but they were badly written as well. <br />The conclusion -- or lack of -- is not surprising. By the time it comes along, the reader has a pretty good idea where it's going. The need for finality and closure is unnecessary. <br />Overall, I don't have a lot of gripes with this book. I like the idea, I like the style, I even like a lot of the writing. I just don't like it the way Lightman put it all together. Maybe that was his intention -- to leave the reader with the same disquiet, unfulfilled feeling that Bill Chalmers experienced. Unfortunately, as the reader, I was never griped by the story and certainly never compelled by it.	2001-03-19
US	52592255	RWVYJCMHA485S	0671775421	704438889	Dogrun	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Nothing Special	Arthur Nersesian's Dogrun tries oh so hard to be cool, but it's just not. Being published by MTV Books doesn't make it hip. His portrayal of modern life in East Village doesn't make it hip. References to all things pop doesn't make it hip. Not even Mary Bellanova's Kenneth Cole shoes make it hip. What this book is is a boring early effort by a young and learning writer who needs to live something besides the writing life so he has something besides the writing life of a young and learning writer to write about. <br />The self-absorbed, woe-is-me heroine is of so little interest to the reader that even when major plot twists reveal themselves, you couldn't care less what they mean to her, only how they might impact the end of the story. Nersesian does an fair job of a man writing from a woman's perspective, although his scenes of self-descrition seem to be more of a composite of what he thinks a woman is than what one might actually believe Mary to be.<br />Even if this is an accurate descrition of life in the Village, it's not a particularly interesting story. Bellanova and her stock friends and lovers are boring people who you already know -- and the story doesn't make you want to know more or care about what happens beyond the last page. <br />If youth is wasted on the young, this is an example of the retelling of youth being wasted by a young writer. The perspective of a storyteller a little futher removed from the &quot;scene&quot; would have done this book wonders.<br />I'll watch for more books from Nersesian, but I'll be a little more choosy before buying.	2001-02-14
US	52592255	R1WYYHX8QXUKHS	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Should Do Well With Oprah Fans	We Were The Mulvaney's is a perfectly acceptable read, full of Oates' trademark rich, yet simple storytelling about what goes on just below the surface of our lives. As has been the case previously for me with Oates' books, the fact that she's so prolific somehow makes me feel like she hasn't poured everything she has into this book, leaving me less than overwhelmed. That may be an unfair analysis, but I have the highest respect for Oates and have read better, more powerful novels and short stories from her in the past. Maybe that's why I could only give this book three stars -- it just doesn't measure up to what I know she can do.<br />What We Were The Mulvaney's does do well is paint an engrossing portrait of an American family and its own personal tragedy. Mom, Dad, Marianne, Mike Jr., Patrick and Judd become real, believable characters under Oates' care. The story unfolds in bits and pieces, never forgetting that it's not one person's story, but a family's. <br />Although it clocks in a whopping 400-plus pages, it's a much quicker and easier read than one might anticipate, which should keep Oprah fans turning pages in anticipation of some sort of acceptable conclusions. Indeed, the reader's expectations come to fruition and one closes this book with an unsettling, yet satisfied feeling. We all know of a family like the Mulvaneys. In fact, a lot of us probably think we are the Mulvaneys. What Oates does is make us realize that especially in the dynamics of a family, we're not always what we seem to be. <br />If this book does nothing else for Oprah fans, I hope it inspires them to read other, better Oates novels, including Black Water; Because It Is Bitter, and Because It Is My Heart; and, most recently, Blonde. It is then that you'll come to better understand the shortcomings of We Were The Mulvaneys.	2001-02-09
US	52592255	R3VR37C6163KTJ	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	If You Love Literature...	There is a big difference between good fiction and good literature and Blindness is a benchmark by which good literature can be ably measured. Like many other readers, I had a hard time adjusting to Saramago's lack of dialog punctuation. The fact that the characters were as nameless as the city they occupied was another challenge. In less able hands, these would be mere plot devices. To Saramago, they are a way to draw the reader into a similar blindness, to make them experience the difficulty and sameness of life for those struck blind by the epidemic. Once I adjusted to the format, the namelessness and the anonimity of place, I began to more fully empathize and share the panic, hopelessness, fear and humanity (or lack thereof) that the core group of characters did. At that point, I was sucked into the story and the work of reading and knowing who was speaking became a part of the experience, just as the afflicted characters adjusted and perservered. <br />Blindness is a well-told story that speaks to the very essence of what it means to exist in society and as an individual. It's about losing what we think is ours by right and how we respond to that loss and the challenge, both physical and mental, that it presents. As bleak as the story sounds, it is actually quite hopeful and Saramago does well to make us understand how much more is at stake than the ability to see with our eyes.<br />I was vaguely surprised and a little disappointed in the ending, but that's all that keeps this from earning five stars. More so, the four stars this book deserves makes me reconsider other reviews I've written and will set a standard of just what constitutes high quality writing. I highly recommend Blindness to anyone who wants to see beyond entertaining fiction into the depths of literature.	2001-02-05
US	52592255	R2QFEAMZVG55P6	0375708707	474326785	Where You Once Belonged	Books	3	42	42	N	N	Quality Writing, Enjoyable Reading	As I've worked my way backwards through Kent Haruf's catalog of books, I've become increasingly impressed with the seeming simplicity of his writing and how he lets his characters come alive on their own terms instead of his. This allows the reader to understand the characters quirks and motivations in a way that reminds us of relationships with real people. We don't know everything about someone the first time we meet them, instead we learn what they want us to know and draw other conclusions from their actions and what other people let us know about them. In Where You Once Belonged, that is exactly how I grew to know Jack Burdette and the people in Holt, Colorado whose lives he so deeply affected. <br />Like Plainsong and The Tie That Binds, the reader is drawn into a seemingly simple story that simmers with local personality and an undercurrent of conflict. Slowly, Haruf lets you in on the complexities and even when the story here doesn't seem as compelling as his later work, you know there's more going on than you're being told. That Haruf can make the reader believe it's for the better not to know is a testament to his unique storytelling style. <br />I don't think Where You Once Belong is as powerfully told as Haruf's next books, which earns it a strong three star rating, but I would highly recommend it to any reader who already knows his style or appreciates subtle stories of lives not too unlike our own.	2001-01-15
US	52592255	RVFYYBT8H3BRI	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Entertaining and Engaging But Still A Detective Novel	Detective novels aren't usually my favorite genre of books. About one every year or two is usually enough to remind me of the limited plot lines available and usually curbs my appetite for more quite nicely. However, that is not to say that such novels can't be entertaining, engaging and well-written, as is the case with Motherless Brooklyn. <br />By bringing Tourette's Syndrome into the mix, Jonathan Lethem has added a welcome wrinkle to the classic style of Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, whose Philip Marlowe is a noted inspiration. The story of Lionel Essrog's life as a small-time Brooklyn mook and his search to find the killer of his mentor and boss is eclipsed by Lionel's Tourettic ticcing and makes the book an extremely enjoyable read. I have no idea whether Lethem has the syndrome pegged perfectly, but he writes Lionel's character very convincingly, with both the humor and the pity Essrog deserves and needs to be the book's true hero. Lionel has a line near the end of the book, &quot;It's a Tourette's thing, you wouldn't understand.&quot; While that may be true at the beginning of the book, Lethem makes us understand, and care, before it's all over.<br />I enjoyed Motherless Brooklyn more than I like most detective novels. Were I any kind of fan of the genre, I'd have given it four stars. I'm just not sure I should have to read about double-crosses, late night stakeouts, car chases and lipsticked women to enjoy the good writing and interesting characters (not because of what they are, but who the are) this book offers.	2001-01-08
US	52592255	R1DODWAU2CVJW	0688167853	329847956	Battle Creek	Books	2	1	5	N	N	As Compelling as a Check Swing Single	Like baseball, this book can be enjoyed at a very basic level. Unlike baseball however, Battle Creek lacks the depth and complexity to be treated as much more than a pleasant diversion. I sped through Battle Creek quickly and easily, without having to put too much thought into it. Being a Michigander, and a baseball fan, Battle Creek should have grabbed me and not let go. Instead, it merely guided be through page after page of everyday life. The characters were drawn well enough, they just never really popped from the pages. The baseball scenes seemed realistic and the relationships possible, if not a little shallow. I have no real complaints about this book. Likewise, I wouldn't call a friend to tell them to read it either. Instead, I'd suggest that anyone looking for real baseball reading pick up Bart Giamatti's &quot;A Great and Glorious Game&quot; and read the first essay, &quot;The Green Fields of the Mind.&quot; That four page masterpiece contains more human drama, baseball knowledge and rich prose than Battle Creek achieves in over 200 pages.	2000-10-26
US	52592255	R10XW2C3SY1HWZ	0312262841	878245101	All Summer Long: A Novel	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Maybe I'll Understand When I Have My Midlife Crisis	No wonder Bob Greene's so much more well known as a columnist than a  novelist. All Summer Long, while full of good writing and interesting  situations, seems to me to be self-serving and melodramatic. If only this  had been written as non-fiction, I would have not only believed it, but  would have respected it. Instead, I could predict what would happen pages  ahead of time and kept thinking that maybe I have can have career as a  novelist after all. It's just not very interesting to anyone but the  characters. If I ran into any of these guys in a airport or at a ballgame  or in a hotel lobby, I'd not only think them quite unspectacular, but  wouldn't dig too deeply into their lives, as I'm sure I'd be bored before  they got around to reliving their first &quot;adventure.&quot;<br />Oh, woe is  the forty-three year old Midwestern male, who can't face the reality of  everyday life. Sure, there isn't a person alive who wouldn't like to take  the summer off and travel, but I don't know how many of us want to do it  with a bunch of people that we were really only close to 25 years ago.  Forget my friends from high school, I want to take off with the people who  mean something to me today -- people with whom I have something in common  besides having attended the same school two and a half decades ago. This is  exactly why we have reunions every five years, not every day. For the most  part, they have no relevance in our daily lives. <br />That said, I still  enjoyed the escapism this book offers. Greene offers simple, but  significant insights into human nature, especially those that I imagine for  men in their mid forties. The trio's travels are both funny and sad, and  Greene doesn't necessarily push the reader one way or another. Things just  happen and the summer is over, just like it is for you and me. And just  like yours and mine, no one can really say they're interested in these sad  sacks. <br />Greene steals the title from the Beach Boys song, although a songmore representative and equally sappy might have been Terry Jacks's Seasons  In The Sun. They had joy, they had fun, they had a season in the sun. Big  deal.	2000-08-30
US	52592255	RJHGI5EJ4ACAK	0375724389	721936771	The Tie That Binds	Books	4	102	105	N	N	Even Better Than Plainsong	The first book I read from Kent Haruf was Plainsong, which I thought was  one of the best books of the year. The Tie That Binds, however, may be even  better. It's bleak simplicity, as stark as the Colorado plains in which it  takes place, assaults the reader slowly and steadily, unrelenting, but  sublime and oh so human. The story of Sanders Roscoe and his neighbors  Edith and Lyman Goodnough is heartbreaking and inevitable. Told by Roscoe  in a voice as authentic as any I've ever heard, the tale unwinds slowly and  passionately. I can imagine sitting in Roscoe's house listening to him tell  his side of the story with the rapt attention he demands and deserves. Like  Plainsong, the book is full of characters who, with the exception of  Edith's father, straddle the line between heroism and villanry. No one is  without blame or imperfections, regardless of their intentions. Haruf  obviously understands life in Holt, Colorado, and does a wonderful job of  conveying it to the reader. Likewise, he knows people and the characters in  this book jump off the pages with honesty and realness. An excellent book  and another reason to delve deeper into the Haruf portfolio of fine books.	2000-08-29
US	52592255	R28IX4XKAGKPQ2	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	4	36	38	N	N	An Enduring Impression	What strikes me about this book is the lasting impression it's left on me.  I read it last summer and still find myself thinking about it and talking  about it a year later. I recently finished another book and my wife asked  me to compare it to any two others as a point of reference. Better than one  book we'd both read, I said, but not as good as Enduring Love. For  contemporary fiction, this one sticks with you.<br />McEwan does a fine job in  painting the lead character Joe Rose, as well as the secondary players. His  use of language is clear and simple, yet never elementary. The opening  chapter is as powerfully imagined as any other I've read. The reader is  literally hanging by a rope at the suspense of the scene. And it sets the  tone for the psychological terror to come. <br />More than a summer read,  Enduring Love explores corners of our psyches and personalities that we  don't often come face to face with. Suspense, terror, humor, and the very  real idea of love and romance are alive in this book, which I reccommend as  enjoyable to readers of any of these genres.	2000-08-22
US	52592255	R1L5D1R00Z4W3G	0375702164	733074294	Armadillo: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Better (and Different) Than I Expected	Based on the book's jacket quotes, I expected a much darker, more ominous  book. Instead I got the loss adjuster's version of High Fidelity written  more dramatically. Which is fine, since I couldn't imagine the words Kafka  and comedy being used in the same sentence anyway. To be fair, Armadillo is  deeper, more thoughtful than High Fidelity. Throughout, the protagonist  Lorimer Black is woven into a complex, dangerous, and utterly believable  tailspin full of symbolic events, coincidences and resolutions. I enjoyed  the finely written characters, each so vividly drawn that I snarl at the  thought of people I know who fit similar descriptions. I also appreciate  how the book left some issues unresolved. There are things that Lorimer  doesn't know and never will know and the reader shouldn't either. Believe  me, it adds to the enjoyment of reading this book. Overall a very rich,  well-told and satisfying story which I'd reccommend to anyone who  appreciates modern fiction, especially with an English twist.	2000-08-21
US	52592255	RM26F8OV2VXTQ	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	36	39	N	N	Embarrasingly Funny	Don't ask me why, but I read a few of the stories from this book in the bathroom at work. Which wouldn't have been a problem had I not had to worry  about others who were also using the bathroom at the same time. I know that  had it been me that walked into a bathroom and heard muffled laughing  coming from a closed stall, I'd have been pretty concerned for its  occupant. To which I say to anyone who might have been there, or could  imagine being there, I dare you to read any three of Sedaris' latest  stories and not laugh outloud. Embarrasingly loud. Let he who is without a  sense of humor cast the first stone.<br />Like Naked, Holidays on Ice and  Barrel Fever, MTPOD is riotous fun with a good bit of scathing social  commentary thrown in for good measure. Almost every story is a classic in  its own way, from the bathroom humor of Big Boy, to the foul-mouthed  sentimentality of You Can't Kill the Rooster. The second half of the book,  mostly stories of Sedaris' move to France, is a change of pace from the  remembrances of his North Carolina upbringing which make up most of the  first half, but doesn't disappoint at all. Picka-Pocketoni, Jesus Shaves  and the title story are wonderfully drawn and Sedaris writes comically  without being a comedian. <br />I read this book to my in-laws on vacation  recently. Every night, before we'd go to bed, I'd read a couple stories to  put a humorous ending on another day at the beach. I like to think that  they just like to hear me read, but I know the real reason everyone  gathered every night was the feeling a Sedaris story leaves you with. Is  there a more sure way to go to bed with a smile on your face. I'm not sure  there is. I can't give a book of humor five stars, but I can highly  recommend this offering by David Sedaris. Just don't read it in the  bathroom at work.	2000-08-14
US	52592255	R2D9S026700UB1	0375410198	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	2	21	29	N	N	A Snack of Lust	I loved the idea of this book. Unfortunately, Baxter couldn't pull it off.  His characterizations of most of the people in the story are so inauthentic  that I had trouble believing anything they did, even when their actions  occasionally seemed genuine. His take on young, punk love/life is laughable  and often basely vulgar, which could be effective from a sharper pen. It's  no wonder Baxter's a respected short story writer. This book is little more  than overwritten shorts linked together by common characters. Still, even  at 100 pages too long, I read it in two days, so there must have been some  interest besides simply getting it off my nightstand. I did appreciate the  ideas of love he tried to portray, but, again, I don't think he ever found  an authentic voice, not even when it was his own character's. Because of  this, and the pervading smugness which comes from a writer who mistakenly  thinks he knows his characters (and the midwest), the book was often  annoying. Add to the mix his cheerleading for the University of Michigan,  the one thing the UM professor does understand, and it's enough to make me  want to change my rating to one star. Mostly, I just expected more from a  book with such a rich title. Read it for yourself if you'd like, but keep  in mind your own standards of quality and don't fall for the fool's gold  promises this book claims.	2000-08-14
US	52592255	R2PV8C4WS7E2I0	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So Much Disgrace, So Little Time	Depending upon your definition of disgrace, it is almost surely inevitable  in each our lives. It certainly is in this book, a multi-layered  examination of post-Aparthied South Africa, familial relations, our place  in nature and the weaknesses we face as mere mortals. Surprisingly, it's  not as depressing as one might think. With disgrace comes a certain  recognition of having done something wrong. Otherwise, it's not digrace,  just badness. Therein lies the optimism this book ultimately provides. I  loved clear and simple style in which it was written, yet avoided  moralizing. Like South Africa, nothing is as simple as black and white and  Coetzee doesn't let the reader off the hook that easily either. Disgrace is  a wonderful book which deserves all the accolades it's recieved.	2000-08-11
US	52592255	R2Z8ARTL39B3H6	0395836220	374823093	Stern Men	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Nice Summer Read	Once Gilbert sets the story up in the first 50 pages, this book becomes a  generally enjoyable summer read. The protagonist, Ruth, is an interesting  character, although I had a hard time believing she was so head strong, yet  as vulnerable as she appeared. There was something in the way her character  was written that just rubbed me a little odd. Still, the story moves well,  with interesting twists and the general plot is as quirky as promised. I  agree that the ending seemed rushed and somewhat contrived. I was surprised  that when I was really starting to get into the story and care about not  only Ruth, but others on the islands, that there were only a handful of  pages left to read. I probably should have given this book four stars, but  considering I read it in a beach chair facing the Atlantic ocean, it should  have affected me a little more. Still, it's a worthwhile read and good  summer entertainment, just nothing award-winning.	2000-08-10
US	52592255	R3PMPQRRYO5PU7	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Entertaining and provoking	I was pleasantly surprised -- over and over again -- with this book. As a reader without much interest in Virginia Wolff the person, I wasn't expecting such compelling fiction. I fell into the patterns and themes of  the book immediately and Cunningham did a wonderful job of telling the  stories without explaining them. Overall, I think it's as interesting as  one can make a Virginia Wolff story to those like me who have only a  passing iterest in her personally. It certainly spoke to my sense of  literature and art and I recommend it to anyone who's not afraid to open  their mind to possibility and coincidence.	2000-07-26
US	52592255	R2K629UM3FKICI	0767902513	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail	Books	2	4	4	N	N	More Like Rediscovering A Really Bad Idea	Bill Bryson did not hike the AT. He hiked parts of the AT. He didn't rediscover America. He saw 800 miles of woods. His insights were few and far between. Instead, readers are &quot;treated&quot; to his particularly irritating smugness diguised as humor. His incessant poking of fun at others, usually more interesting and determined than he, wears thin before he wimps out in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. The writing is fine in this &quot;adventure&quot; book, it's the tone and substance that lacks. By the time he and Katz quit (and this doesn't give anything away) early in the hike, I was ready for them to fall to their deaths anyway. I read the rest of the book trying to figure out when humility might come to light, but it never did. He got whipped by the AT and never had the sack to admit it. For anyone interested in actually learning about the AT, this book is a farce. For those more interested in reading than doing, there may be some sense of amusement. Like black flies and mosquitoes, this book is annoying, annoying, annoying.	2000-07-19
US	52592255	R1P3CUMU0HNCIQ	0060927240	341562000	Rule of the Bone: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Typical Banks	Saying Rule of the Bone is typical Banks is a good thing. He writes compelling stories with an edge that never lets you feel too comfortable or become too close to the characters since they're generally such sad human beings. My wife says he's smug, I say he's a realist. However, compared to  other Banks novels, Bone is a joyride. Plenty or lighter moments and a  protagonist who's spunk makes him worth cheering for if not quasi-likeable.  While not a fast read, it's quite literal and moves along as quickly as the  locales of the story change. Again, Banks explores familial relationships  and how they're affected by societal conditions. Perhaps the only thing  keeping this book from getting five stars from me is the knowledge that  Continental Drift and the Sweet Hereafter exist. Every time I read a Banks  book, besides Cloudsplitter, I wonder why he isn't a more popular writer  with the status quo. He's a great writer and this is a good book.	2000-02-04
US	52592255	R1E80IGXIERXQU	1573220876	602052020	About a Boy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Light and enjoyable	While not as consistently entertaining as High Fidelity, About A Boy reinforces Hornby's important place as a chronicler of the modern thirtyish male's condition and psyche. I recognize so much of myself in Hornby's  leading men and, whether I like it or not, it makes me laugh and think  about just what it is that I value. The story's premise is solid, the  writing tight and it's execution is solid. The story does become a little  predictable and the ending kind of fizzles for me, but the book is still  highly worth reading. Hornby plays up the suicide angle, but seems to miss  some opportunities for deeper thought on the subject and that's the only  thing keeping this book in the three star category for me. If you liked  High Fidelity, you should read this book. If you liked this book, you  should really be excitied about High Fidelity.	2000-01-07
US	52592255	R2FSUSFNA9ZX22	0679436677	518666677	Preston Falls	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Who is this guy?	Preston Falls was an easy read that probably deserves at least one more star. However, the main character and his motives are so underdeveloped that I didn't only not know who he really was, but I didn't care. The  author paints a picture of a unconvincing mid-life crisis, a marriage that  I couldn't figure out from the start, and a caricature of a dysfunctional  family. The writing is fine, the story is not.	1999-07-13
US	52592255	RW6JCXBXJCE0L	0688158129	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	3	0	0	N	N	What is it?	A love story? A family drama? A courtroom drama? Sometimes three yeses don't add up to a positive. And I think that's the case with The Pact. The writing is decent and the story easily followable, which isn't necessarily  a compliment. I felt a little manipulated by the now and then format of  storytelling and surprised in a let down sort of way by the ending.  Overall, not a bad summer read with some interesting family dynamics and a  plot set-up that couldn't have failed too badly. Mostly I wonder what I was  supposed to feel from a book that tried to do too much with a pretty simple  premise.	1999-07-13
US	52592255	R3GAM8XR1J68IG	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Well written and intelligent	Having seen the movie Smoke Signals before reading this book, I was somewhat familiar with some of the characters and the situations. That didn't detract from the enjoyment of this fine piece of fiction. The  mythical references flowed well with the reality (as I believe it) of life  on reservations. The characters were unique but totally believeable, and  Alexie did a seamless job of melding even the most over-the-top symbolism  into the narrative. I would highly recommend this book to fans of Native  American and music history as well as anyone who has a taste for engaging,  intelligent fiction.	1999-07-13
US	52592255	R11YEVSQC6I9UP	1565121929	569139212	A Great and Glorious Game: Baseball Writings of A. Bartlett Giamatti	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Finally, Thankfully	I read the essay &quot;Green Fields of the Mind&quot; in 1990 and have waited for a collection of Giamatti's work ever since. I know no other writer who so eloquently captures not only the magic of baseball, but how  we experience it. I wish I could be half as passionate about my life as  Giamatti was about the game we love. Buy the book and count how many times  you tell yourself during its reading that you either need to lend it to a  friend or buy a copy for someone you love. It transcends baseball without  the obvious pretentions of academia. Should be read just before opening  day, again on the day your favorite team is eliminated for the season and  once more during the off-season.	1999-02-11
