US	52590631	R375A92G4YETCF	0877739455	713102273	Mothers, Sons, and Lovers: How a Man's Relationship with His Mother Affects the Rest of His Life	Books	5	10	20	N	N	"I'm very close to my mother."	Would it not seem common sense self preservation to politely run not walk in the other direction from any man who wants you to know this about him right off the bat?  Mother-bound men in literature and film from Oedipus to Norman Bates -- and every sentimental serial killer with a picture of his mother on his nightstand in between -- have yet to teach even 21st Century women the hard lessons in steering clear of this terrible spidermother tragedy.  Should have long been a classic in popular psychology; recommended.	2005-03-05
US	52590631	R3300RMY8TD23O	0802812163	323314988	Scarred by Struggle, Transformed by Hope	Books	4	16	20	N	N	From Emotional Exhaustion to Spiritual Endurance	\\"Each single angel is terrible, and so I keep down my heart and swallow the call note of depth dark sobbing,\\" wrote Rilke.  \\"Ought not these oldest sufferings of ours to be yielding more fruit by now?\\"  Understanding these existential dangers and the archetypal lessons in the story of Jacob wrestling with the \\"terrible angel,\\" Benedictine writer Sister Joan Chittister addresses her acknowledgements in writing this book to \\"the human beings who know the truth of the way and the price of the path.\\"  Her practical yet sweetly inspired essays show the intended purposeful way from loss to conversion away from the material to the spirit, from isolation to wise interdependent independence, from darkness to more than enough faith to share, from fear to outstanding courage, from powerlessness to sweet surrender, from vulnerability to embracing human limitations, from exhaustion to endurance -- and from the scars of struggle to the transformation and resurrection of hope.  \\"I knew of no world scriptures anywhere that answered grief by pretending it didn't exist.\\"  Whether you're looking for help in uncommon or the usual suspects of human grief and suffering, Joan Chittister's modern slim volume belongs right beside Buddhist Sharon Salzberg's masterful Faith in your stack of soothing bedside books.  Recommended.	2005-02-06
US	52590631	R3RBUC1QOE2PHM	0820427950	556186923	Disciplines of Attention (Asian Thought and Culture)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Buddha, Ignatius, Freud	John Newman is a professor of religion and philosophy at Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana.  Forgive me for reproducing a professional journal review here:<br /><br />Newman explores three approaches, \\"disciplines,\\" to cognitive/emotional transformation.  Practitioners of each discipline alter emotions by acts of attention to, and revised explanations of, emotional constellations focused during concentrated periods of work.  In the light of insights derived from philosophical work on emotions, N. compares and contrasts how a (Theravada) Buddhist meditator deals with craving, how an Ignatian exercitant combats inordinate attachments, desolation and false consolations and how a Freudian analyst handles transference.  N. modestly admits that his work \\"is by no means a complete study of any one of these forms of practice\\" (8).  This reviewer, however, has experienced all three of the disciplines, was trained in Freudian analysis and has conducted directees through the Ignatian Exercises.  From this perspective I praise N. for having grasped the spirit, the essence of each tradition, its theory and its practice.  He has also mastered the relevant primary and secondary texts profusely cited in lively dialogue with each other throughout.  E.g., in \\"Discerning the Right Love of God,\\" Ignatius's directives are contextualized within theological premises drawn from Augustine, Aquinas, Whitehead and Pannenberg.  Certain aspects of the Exercises encourage transference reactions and regression that are accordingly analyzed from within a psychoanalytic viewpoint.  The criterion of peace as the sign of the true love of God is related to the object of true love in mindfulness meditation, namely \\"one that can be held in full and conscious attention with full awareness of causes\\" (173).  Criticisms might predictably derive from those disagreeing with any of N.'s philosophical positions (e.g. the illusory nature of the ego/self), but, all in all, N. has made a major contribution to interreligious and interdisciplinary dialogue.  (William J. Sneck)o interreligious and interdisciplinary dialogue.  (William J. Sneck)	2005-02-01
US	52590631	R9BI4AVNV16FS	0786884150	251140440	The Wooden Bowl: Simple Meditations for Everyday Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sweet, "Simple" Meditation Manual	Some time in the eighties a zendo in New York lost a vowed Zen master, Tricycle lost a senior editor and Woodstock, New York gained a wonderful family man, haiku writer and founder of the Koans of the Bible Study Group.  The Wooden Bowl is as exquisitely simple and beautiful a meditation \\"manual\\" (on simply counting four breaths) as the small wooden bowl I once found in a consignment shop in a small high desert town in Arizona -- a simple wooden bowl that has survived with ever increasing love two decades of my increasingly masterful clutter clearing.  Clark Strand's uniquely delightful gift is in demonstrating exactly what lightening up, getting over ourselves and clearing the clutter (including ponderous \\"gurus\\" and teachings) means so we can simply meditate with the innocence and delight of a child at play.  \\"Once you realize how simple meditation is, you will know how often we forget to be simple, and what a funny thing that is.\\"  Recommended.	2005-01-20
US	52590631	R38JS4FTHYJX3M	0927534932	42775966	The Way of the Jaguar	Books	5	1	1	N	N	To Learn to Love Truly	Though I have a few favorites in iconic literature, I'm not much of a reader of fiction and I've never felt a need to read in Magical Realism or Latin American literature.  I was led to The Way of the Jaguar by a bit of a synchronicity -- not a possibly \\"New Agey\\" title I'd normally pick up -- and was deeply rewarded for paying attention.  A Columbia educated attorney who studied Latin American Literature at Harvard, Francisco's coming second and third novels surely will win him the widespread recognition in contemporary literature that he deserves.   A prize winning and heartbreaking loosely autobiographical first novel, The Way of the Jaguar is a work of a rare knowing integration of sharp humor, deep intelligence, deep sexuality and deep spirituality -- the journal of successful but lost Boston attorney and \\"inmate\\" Ismael Diaz on a near magical, tragicomic death row not likely seen before in world literature.  Evidently thus far overlooked by Hollywood producers, with an easily well cast Ismael, The Way of the Jaguar is a deeply sexy and poetic Latin American Shawshank Redemption (for lack of another comparison) and intensely engaging ironic and heartbreaking read.  Enter romantic Francisco's jaguar way of knowledge on death row soon; highly recommended.	2005-01-17
US	52590631	R2ABESZ3UPG56	0877736316	190472830	How the Swans Came to the Lake: A Narrative History of Buddhism in America	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Priceless	Wow -- only five reviews for a uniquely priceless 400 page history of Buddhism in America?  Not to mention what's likely the best 12 page summary in print of Siddhartha Buddha's life and legacy?  Erudite American Buddhist author and old hippie character Rick Fields (1942-1999) left an enthusiastic storyteller's history that brings to life every remotely key player -- starting even far before the unforgettable English rogue scholar Sir William Jones (1736-1794) singlehandedly sent the first translations from the East to England and our American Transcendentalists.  Chinese Buddhist monks in Mexico in A.D. 458, the real kindly Quetzalcoatl?  If you think the history of Buddhism in America started at the World Parliament of Religions in 1893 and can be told largely through D. T. Suzuki, Jack Kerouac, Alan Watts, Shunryu Suzuki, Tarthang Tulku and Chogyam Trungpa -- think again.  Here is every gossipy thing you ever wanted to know and more about how and why Buddhism came to America, up to and beyond the Roshi Baker scandals (that mercifully ended the \\"silent denial of lies and abuse\\" and pointed the way to practice increasingly integrated with psychotherapy and more).  The author's note and acknowledgments are priceless in themselves.  (I confess to a long time habit of reading acknowledgments and indexes first.)  Very highly recommended.	2004-12-26
US	52590631	R2JCBPQRFPSV7M	1569244030	56332888	One Heart: Universal Wisdom from the World's Scriptures	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Essential Universal Principles	The library of both popular and scholarly comparative world scripture pointing to universally shared principles of the life of integrity worth living is growing, and One Heart is a very sweet addition to that indispensable collection.  Just as Oneness author Jeffrey Moses was determined to self publish in 1981 the 64 principles he personally mined with heart from world scripture, Hallmark-y concept author Bonnie Kuchler found herself compelled to take that same personal research journey -- and, no coincidence, found 65 similar essential principles shared by all religions.  With a \\"Knowing\\" brief preface by American Buddhist Sylvia Boorstein and heartfelt short essays and practice suggestions by the \\"exuberant\\" spiritual teacher Andrew Harvey, One Heart is another of the new integral generation comforting \\"little\\" books that should be in every hotel nightstand drawer and every individuating home.  Both Oneness and One Heart make sweet gifts for the holiday season or any other.  Recommended.	2004-12-09
US	52590631	R5K6OWG7D21WU	0299165108	955872922	In My Father's Arms: A True Story of Incest (Oxford American's "One of the best Southern Books of All Time")	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Facing Unthinkable Truths of Human Suffering	\\"The eyes scream what the lips dare not whisper\\" -- these are images of father-son sexual abuse that no one should have to live with in their head and Walter de Milly and other victims should not have to live with alone.    Walter de Milly's short memoir remains one of the precious few opportunities to truly experience the utterly horrifying truths of father-son incest in all its sickening complexity and to understand the rank evil lies and trickery of an unstoppable and selfish serial male target pedophile.  Deeply disturbing in its beautiful poetic prose; tragically ultimately lacking in the crucial summary naming of this \\"father\\" as exactly the unspeakably sick monster that he was, a pedophile who belonged in prison or a mental institution.  In My Father's Arms remains a study in the triumph of evil -- nevermind a pedophile father's \\"mental illness\\" -- enabled in a deeply disturbed \\"loyal, loving and sentimental\\" (and tragically naive) family.  You will never forget Walter's Southern story of a dissociative and multiple personality disorder producing \\"good\\" family, and he and other shattered victims of the X-Files insidiousness of father-son incest and male target pedophiles will never be out of your prayers after.  The classic People of the Lie by M. Scott Peck and the astute Intimate Worlds by Maggie Scarf are both wise companion reading.  Highly recommended.	2004-11-25
US	52590631	R1WFEM14UTKCGB	0312327439	614455974	Counting Sheep: The Science and Pleasures of Sleep and Dreams	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Encyclopedic Sleep Manifesto	\\"The mere presence of an alarm clock implies sleep deprivation.\\"  What's the purpose of sleeping and dreaming?  Some would just as well ask what's the purpose of wakefulness, or elegant dining, and I've been happily one of them since I was kid who early understood the delicious and miraculous sensuality of that mere third of our lives spent sleeping and dreaming.  (Some of us wish it was an acceptably higher percentage.)  With whimsical puns and humor appropriate to any lover of sleep (\\"Give sleep a chance.\\"  \\"Falling asleep again, what am I to do?\\"), Dr. Martin covers everything from the art of lucid dreaming to the history of beds -- and everything his delightful and agile mind can squeeze into 432 pages in between.  No kidding.  Despite the format that already feels like a sad \\"remainder,\\" no self respecting sleep aficionado will be without this book on a nightstand (or coffee table, perchance to recruit other sleep and dream connoisseurs).  Loaded with countless \\"aha\\" and \\"wow\\" current research facts and implications -- and plenty of encouragement to include the exquisite pleasures of sleeping and dreaming in daily life.  Highly recommended educational material for the materially insane Western world.  Zzzzzz.	2004-11-22
US	52590631	R36AN5B7WNRE0W	0765701421	343113469	Reparative Therapy of Male Homosexuality: A New Clinical Approach	Books	4	40	64	N	N	Psychoanalytic Objectivity Beyond the Politically Correct	A more accurate title for this Jason Aronson psychoanalytic textbook would be \\"Reparative Therapy of the Not Gay Homosexual Man.\\"  Simply put -- and despite recent foolishly politically correct changes in the DSM certainly not limited to issues of homosexuality -- Dr. Nicolosi's psychoanalytic experience confirms what Freud, Jung and Adler found:    There are gay men who were simply born gay in \\"good enough\\" parent, stable, individuating families and have no need of this book or reparative therapy (or, in general, of cult-like \\"gay pride\\" memberships) -- and there are \\"not gay homosexual men\\" (as Dr. Nicolosi writes) who were born decidedly straight but whose stable ego-Self connections were damaged in an \\"absent bonding father figure, deadly devouring spidermother\\" dysfunctional disaster.  Dr. Nicolosi's developmentally reparative therapy addresses the latter psychoanalytically classic \\"not gay homosexual man\\" -- who will not be a stable happy camper -- and calmly offers psychoanalytically sound, unconditional shelter from the current misguided right/left political storms and agendas.  (Any objective gay man or \\"not gay homosexual man\\" would benefit from an unbiased reading of Dr. Nicolosi's informed and astute psychoanalytic wisdom.)    There ain't no easy way out -- take great care to silence both the offensive religious right and foolishly politically correct left in seeking objective truths in any too hot debate cast in black and white, especially this one.  Read the few thoughtful, calm and objective reviews here and read the book -- and be privileged to understand (or be anguished by) the profound difference between naturally born gay men and \\"not gay homosexual\\" (and neurotic or personality disordered) men.  (One less than five stars because Dr. Nicolosi is a little too coincidentally also a Catholic speaker -- and, as a sometime Catholic and pro choice voter in support of equal marriage rights for all, the rating is on the safer side of objectivity.)  Highly recommended.	2004-11-17
US	52590631	R2SHXWMU7RBVLI	157322152X	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Savvy, Inspiring and Psychologically Astute	\\"The natural writer would almost always rather be reading, writing, or alone, except of course when he needs to come up for air (that is, for subject matter, food, sex, love, attention) . . . . he may be a social misfit, freak, or a smooth operator, but every person who does serious time with a keyboard is attempting to translate his version of the world into words so that he might be understood.  Indeed, the great paradox of the writer's life is how much time he spends alone trying to connect with other people . . . . He usually has an overly developed sense of privacy.\\"  Not necessarily the best excerpt for a brief review, but Betsy Lerner is indeed the savvy, psychologically astute editor you've dreamed of hearing from.  Divided into Part I Writing (brilliant) and Part II Publishing (smart).  Highly recommended.	2004-10-01
US	52590631	R2EV1K0GVPYO7T	0345406672	660525345	Intimate Worlds: How Families Thrive and Why They Fail	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Psychotic, Neurotic and Individuating Families	What you may have long suspected, the research shows to be true: A good 70% of families in America are what is now popularly known as \\"dysfunctional\\" or worse; Intimate Worlds should be required reading for . . . . anyone in a family, that fundamental blueprint for life and society, for better or worse.  Scarf poignantly shows how most of us could use a revised or entirely new blueprint to authentically thrive in life and pass healthy boundaries and life and relationship skills on to emotionally stable children.  Psychoanalytically and sweetly eloquent, the dustcover flap (somewhat paraphrased below) says it well.  A highly recommended landmark work.    ~~ Scarf explores the many factors that go into the formation and functioning of a family, showing us the ways in which families actually operate, and how family life can be improved. She combines clear analysis with unforgettable stories about real families to expose the core issues that every family must deal with: power and how to manage it; intimacy and how to achieve it; conflict and how to resolve it; individuality and how to become wholly oneself while retaining a sense of belonging.    She outlines the five structural blueprints that characterize most families' patterns of being and relating, taking us inside intimate family worlds at each of these five levels of health and development [as described by the superb Beavers Systems Model Scale]:    A destructive dysfunctional family, typified by lies, secrets, chaos, doublespeak, confusion and powerlessness.    A borderline family, where minimum order over chaos is maintained by a petty tyrant.    A midrange family [60% of families], where life is somewhat productive yet \\"close, loyal\\" members are controlled from within by an internalized guilt-producing abuser holding members prisoner inside \\"a good family\\" and anyone else \\"different and bad\\" and \\"threatening\\" outside of it.    An adequately productive but ultimately enmeshed midrange family.    An optimal family, where flexibility and reality-based coherence flow in honest, individuating balance for all deeply authentic, highly individual and independent yet authentically intimate unique members -- who take great joy and delight in each other's unique personalities and achievements, glasses half full not half empty.    Changing unproductive and destructive patterns is the goal of the illuminating insights and exercises Scarf presents. ~~	2004-09-21
US	52590631	RNGG15TCW70P2	094420337X	344620355	Diary of Saint Maria Faustina Kowalska: Divine Mercy in My Soul, Revised Edition	Books	5	39	39	N	N	The Obedient Diary of a Misunderstood Visionary	(65) \\"One time during novitiate, when Mother Directress sent me to work in the wards' kitchen, I was very upset because I could not manage the pots, which were very large.  The most difficult task for me was draining the potatoes, and sometimes I spilt half of them with the water.  When I told this to Mother Directress, she said that with time I would get used to it and gain the necessary skill.  Yet the task was not getting any easier, as I was growing weaker every day [tuberculosis].  So I would move away when it was time to drain the potatoes.  The sisters noticed that I avoided this task and were very much surprised.  They did not know that I could not help in spite of all my willingness to do this and not spare myself.  At noon, during the examination of conscience, I complained to God about my weakness.  Then I heard the following words in my soul, FROM TODAY ON YOU WILL DO THIS EASILY; I SHALL STRENGTHEN YOU.    That evening, when the time came to drain off the water from the potatoes, I hurried to be the first to do it, trusting in the Lord's words.  I took up the pot with ease and poured off the water perfectly.  But when I took off the cover to let the potatoes steam off, I saw there in the pot, in the place of the potatoes, whole bunches of red roses, beautiful beyond description.  I had never seen such roses before.  Greatly astonished and unable to understand the meaning of this, I heard a voice within me saying, I CHANGE SUCH HARD WORK OF YOURS INTO BOUQUETS OF MOST BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS, AND THEIR PERFUME RISES UP TO MY THRONE.  From then on I have tried to drain the potatoes myself, not only during my week when it was my turn to cook, but also in replacement of other sisters when it was their turn.  And not only do I do this, but I try to be the first to help in any other burdensome task, because I have experienced how much this pleases God.\\"    You may not know it yet, but one of our greatest saints -- God's intimate \\"Secretary of Mercy\\" -- was canonized in 2000, and one of the greatest mystical diaries of eternity is waiting to grace you with the divine privilege of reading it.  (Nevermind that the current canonization crazy Pope had a distinctly vested interest in this case.)    Really -- don't waste any more time, buy this often backordered impeccable third edition hardcover ISBN 094420337X now, for it was not only Rilke who said \\"You must change your life.\\"    Do, however, enter at your own seriously intense risk, and keep in mind that the apparitional Jesus was often speaking specifically to Sister Faustina's unique spiritual needs as His born \\"simple\\" Secretary of Mercy, a gardener with three years of elementary school education.  \\"The writings contain a wonderful teaching, but reading them one must remember that God speaks to philosophers in the language of philosophers and to simple souls in the language of the simple ones, and only to these last does He reveal truths hidden from the wise and prudent of this world.\\"  Read all 700 plus pages closely; keep a copy of The Spiritual Exercises of Saint Igantius close by (Sister Faustina's Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy follows intensely \\"obedient\\" Ignatian spiritual formation).  Needless to say, five stars are far from enough.	2004-08-27
US	52590631	R269G5687BGFFU	0670899771	612392363	Our Lady of the Lost and Found: A Novel of Mary, Faith, and Friendship	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Simple, Moving, Understated	\\"Will you be able to resist the temptation to go and write a book about [my visit] afterwards?  You must promise me that you will use a pseudonym and you will call it a novel.  When that book comes out, I want to see in big letters that disclaimer on the copyright page:  This is a work of fiction.  If you break this promise, divine wrath will be the least of your problems.  Divine wrath will not even be necessary.  If people find out that I have been here, that I have talked to you, eaten with you, and slept in your house, they will descend upon you in droves.  They will make a plague of locusts look like a minor inconvenience.\\"<br />If Our Lady of the Lost and Found were adapted for film -- and it should be -- the soundtrack might start with OutKast, continue with Bach's Goldberg Variations and end with Erik Satie.<br />This is a touching postmodern (\\"a word which nobody really knows what it means\\") story of a perfectly happy solitary writer's perfectly natural perfect houseguest:  Our tired Blessed Virgin Mary in need of a quiet vacation and quiet human friendship.  It is meditative homage to the nonCatholic, neoagnostic author's new unexpected lifelong friend Mary, an elegy to quiet friendship between complex women who have learned to savor the exquisite pleasures of everyday life with clear understated Zen humor and irony.  It is both an eclectic global education in Mariology and the tender, moving \\"novel of Mary, faith and friendship\\" Diane Schoemperlen found herself setting aside another book to write.<br />\\"Pour yourself a cold glass of water on a hot summer day and remember that the vessel was made by fire, Heraclitus' symbol of change.  Think about transparent glass taking on the color of whatever is poured into it:  green Kool-Aid, brown tea, red blood.  Think about the glass being half empty and half full.\\"<br />Definitely not for everyone, but highly recommended for those who, like Diane Schoemperlen, find themselves \\"ready.\\"  Those who are will savor agifted author's understated comic ironic and delicate emotional timing.	2004-07-08
US	52590631	R3DCTL0PA6PFM1	0871139162	376879125	The Miracle Detective: An Investigation of Holy Visions	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The Accidental Awakening of an Investigative Journalist	What happens when, to his own surprise, an irreligious agnostic, ambivalently betrothed Rolling Stone contributing editor and savvy, irreverent investigative journalist finds himself saying to his publisher that his next book will be about the \\"miracle detectives\\" of the Vatican and the process of investigating holy visions and miracles?  \\"You know what the third Secret of Fatima is, don't you?\\" one postmodern priest asks him with a sly smile.  \\"The bill for the Last Supper.\\"    \\"In its entire history, the Holy See has never recognized any apparition of the Virgin, not even at Lourdes or Fatima, Father Gumpel informed me during my first interview at the Vatican.  This was something, the priest added, that even most Catholics did not know.\\"    \\"Among the things I learned at the Vatican was that while [my] ignorance may be a crude facsimile of innocence, it enjoys many of the same advantages, the main one being that people want to educate you, and that in so doing, they inevitably disclose their deeper intentions.  No less surprising, I found I was learning as much from those who shunned me as from those who drew me close.  The doors shut in my face, the phone calls not returned, the claims that someone else was better qualified to answer such questions, and especially, the demands of confidentiality made by those willing to reveal a good deal about both the nature and the scale of conflict in the Holy See.\\"    If you aren't aware of the increasing Marian apparitions and \\"miracles\\" happening around the world -- and especially of the political and other disturbing complexities in the ongoing apparitions in eternally war scarred Medjugorje, Bosnia-Hercegovina -- former intellectual existentialist Randall Sullivan is precisely the miracle detective to tell you all about them, Pope John Paul's amused glance and his own \\"accidental\\" gradual awakening.  \\"Faith is no more the elimination of doubt than courage is the absence of fear.\\"  Eight years in the making, highly recommended reading for both skeptics -- \\"You should pray for the gift of discernment, Randall, because you need it tremendously\\" -- and believers alike.  (Badly in need of the meticulous index this landmark work so seriously deserves and sadly full of editorial and proofreading typos and fact checking errors -- thus, very regrettably, four not five stars.)	2004-07-03
US	52590631	R3HBBWAMZP31RS	0262011646	85708146	Zen and the Brain: Toward an Understanding of Meditation and Consciousness	Books	5	37	42	N	N	A Remarkable Gift	Einstein told us almost a century ago that &quot;science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.&quot;  If ever there were a 900 page coffee table tome meant to be savored as a paradoxical Minute Book in highly digestible bite size sections as the mood strikes, Zen and the Brain is it.  &quot;In this book Zen Buddhism becomes the opening wedge for an extraordinarily wide ranging exploration of consciousness.  In order to understand which brain mechanisms produce Zen states, one needs some understanding of the anatomy, physiology, and chemistry of the brain.  Austin, both a neurologist and a Zen practitioner, interweaves the most recent brain research with the personal narrative of his Zen experiences.  The science is both inclusive and rigorous; the Zen sections are clear and evocative.  Along the way, Austin examines such topics as similar states in other disciplines and religions, sleep and dreams, mental illness, consciousness altering drugs, and the social consequences of the advanced stage of ongoing enlightenment.&quot;  Recommended.	2004-06-30
US	52590631	R35D5R59S14QDR	0809124548	46913742	Spiritual Pilgrims: Carl Jung and Teresa of Avila	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Individuation & the Interior Castle	A humbly masterful introduction to the parallels between Jung and Christian mysticism by a savvy Carmelite formerly president of the Carmelite Institute.  Highly recommended.    Contents ~ Foreword by Morton T. Kelsey ~ Introduction ~ Finding Images For Our Story ~ The Castle, An Image of Wholeness ~ The Deep Waters of the Inner World ~ A Map For Life's Journey ~ Serpents and Devils in the Shadows ~ The Marriage of Masculine and Feminine ~ Christ, Symbol of the Self ~ Through the Castle, One More Time ~ Selected Bibliography - Index	2004-06-25
US	52590631	RZ6CNSYJSIZP7	0060554231	255263904	The Dark Night of the Soul: A Psychiatrist Explores the Connection Between Darkness and Spiritual Growth	Books	3	34	47	N	N	Short and Bittersweet	&quot;They knew the workings of the human unconscious four centuries before Sigmund Freud.&quot;  Dr. May, a retired psychiatrist who is now a Senior Fellow in Contemplative Theology and Psychology, has carefully distilled his profound lifelong relationship with John of the Cross and Teresa of Avila in a little guide that's a brief yet subtle primer on both amazing saints.  Notable especially in describing what the newly popular, corrupted phrase &quot;dark night&quot; is *not*, Dr. May is welcome company on the way to a mature, authentic spiritual life.  Recommended -- for those who can say along with Dr. May that &quot;the idea of God's having any needs at all, let alone needing us, may sound like an alien, even heretical idea, yet it is a realization that many contemplatives come to&quot; and &quot;if there were such a thing as a divine suggestion box, I'd suggest that God make things easier.  Or if not easier, at least clearer.&quot;	2004-06-24
US	52590631	RSDN8X93F2CJS	0871298376	919099420	Sabina	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Melodrama	As Deirdre Bair's scholarly 2003 biography of Jung foolishly underestimates and dismisses Sabina Spielrein and her \\"countertransference\\" affair with the married Dr. Jung, the plays the once psychotic Dr. Spielrein is inspiring since the discovery of her diary and letters equally foolishly melo-dramatize both her and the relationship to the Wagnerian max.  The truth of Dr. Spielrein's influence on the history of psychoanalysis and analytical psychology is yet to be told; Sabina is for melodramatically irrelevant entertainment purposes only.	2004-04-21
US	52590631	R3OIDW3MIPL9DA	0871134810	598116226	The Stages of Life: A Groundbreaking Discovery: The Steps to Psychological Maturity	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Template:  New Stages of Adult Life	Dr. Anderson is not a writer -- if he was, The Stages of Life would call for 5 stars; despite its frustrating flaws as more of a strangely dry, repetitive developmental outline than satisfying new psychoanalytic theory, the specific contributions of The Stages of Life to what we know of the lifelong construction of the mind -- and new developmental stages of adult life emerging since the revolutionary sixties -- remain relevant.  S1 carriers, S2 carriers, practicing, borrowing, self contained Intuition -- if you're in your thirties and wondering why your early happy marriage failed or a boomer convinced you're losing your newly \\"psychic\\" mind to early Alzheimer's while parenting parents who are more like stubborn, needy children, The Stages of Life remains a must quick read easily correlated with other developmental theories (including Jung's complexes and evolutionary psychology's \\"modules\\").  A Sixth Sense is emerging in the compelling evolution of the adult stages of life; understanding this will be both a relief and a marvel, and a reason to wish Dr. Anderson would follow up on this important first outline of his Maturation Theory.	2004-03-24
US	52590631	R3D8E5XGHLYXR8	0375413820	497278203	Jamesland	Books	4	3	3	N	N	On Friendship and "Spiritual Counseling"	\\"Walking down the street teetered on unbearable:  the greens in trees, the friendliness of dogs, the expressiveness of the human face -- all of it asked far too much.  The fragility of being alive sickened her, and she described her state to Perry as a nausea of the heart.  The keenness of these sensations eventually receded into a dull ache, which Perry identified as compassion.\\"    Michelle Huneven is an optimistic, sweet treat of a fundamentally spiritual novelist grounded in the exquisite pleasures of everyday life on our nonetheless troubled Earth and won't be a buried treasure much longer.    An Iowa Writers' Workshop graduate, master culinary critic and (plainly) once aspiring Unitarian Universalist minister from Altadena -- the Pasadena area home of the somewhat similarly spiritually ecstatic physicist Richard Feynman -- she sweetly weaves what appear to be her (just short of idealized and naive) fundamental themes:  Friendship, especially hard won among the fragile misfits to whom she gives great dignity and, ultimately, wholesomeness, and \\"How do people live in this world?\\"  In both Round Rock and Jamesland, the gratifying real question is:  How do people (and, yes, \\"stars\\") really live in Los Angeles, the most misrepresented, insulted city in the world?    With a key character from Round Rock making comic cameo appearances in Jamesland, we can hope that this is the second in a series of comically understated, generously poignant novels about real life in Southern California.  In Round Rock, the center holds in a rehab facility outside Ojai; in (William) Jamesland, the center holds in a Unitarian Universalist church in Los Feliz.  Read Round Rock first and become a spiritual and culinary Michelle Huneven fan -- while learning about the real neighborhoods of the real Los Angeles.	2004-03-19
US	52590631	R2NURCNYPQPTBC	027597829X	869250422	Distancing: Avoidant Personality Disorder, 2nd Edition	Books	5	121	139	N	N	APD:  Character or Personality Disorder?	Martin Kantor is a psychiatrist on the staff of the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in East Orange, New Jersey, and has elsewhere written the following summary of Distancing reproduced (and lightly edited) here:    ~~~    APD has to date been a misunderstood and neglected entity -- either entirely ignored or confused with another disorder, such as Social Phobia.  The purpose of my revised Distancing is to broaden our dynamic understanding of APD, to describe, understand and treat all avoidants, not just those who are shy and social phobic, and to develop a new therapeutic approach to avoidance, one I call Avoidance Reduction.    This is an eclectic method for treating avoidants composed of relevant techniques borrowed from psychoanalytic, cognitive behavioral, interpersonal, existential and supportive therapies.  Many clinicians fail to recognize APD, instead diagnosing Social Phobia.  Those who do recognize APD emphasize shyness and Social Phobia as its main features.   However, these are not basic to all patients with APD.  What is basic to APD is not shyness or Social Phobia but a severe and pervasive social and relationship anxiety displayed in a variety of ways.  Therefore, there are not one but four subtypes of APD, each of which requires a different psychotherapeutic approach.    Type I avoidants, the classic avoidants, are withdrawn.  There are two subtypes of withdrawn avoidants.  The first is the shy individual who cannot seem to tolerate, flinches in the face of, and pulls back from any form of social contact.  The second suffers from a Social Phobia, which is a delimited pull back from a situation or event that symbolizes relationships, for example, from public speaking or eating in public.  Though shy and social phobic avoidants are the main and virtually exclusive focus of today's scientific literature, these avoidants may not even be in a majority, but may represent only the tip of the avoidant iceberg.    Types II and III avoidants, almost entirely ignored by the literature, also suffer from relationship anxiety -- but their relationship anxiety takes the form not of shyness or Social Phobia but of unstable relationships due to a fear of commitment.  Type II avoidants shift from relationship to relationship afraid of closeness due to a fear of commitment (\\"mingle\\" avoidants such as the perpetual bachelor or femme fatale).  They are therefore the opposite of withdrawn.  These are hyperrelated individuals who can relate easily, widely and well but have difficulty sustaining the relationships they form.  Theirs are unstable relationships, marked by a tendency to abandon relationships before they fully develop, especially when closeness threatens and commitment looms.  Type III avoidants form lasting relationships only to disrupt them after months or years of apparent functionality.  These are what I call the \\"seven year itch\\" avoidants who form what appear to be solid relationships -- only to tire of them after a shorter or longer period of time, then leave them with little warning.  That is, they abandon their relationships after some time has passed, and they often do so suddenly and without warning.    Type IV avoidants hide out in a codependent relationship with one person to avoid having healthy relationships with many people.  They sink into one relationship to avoid all others.  Some are dependent on their family.  Others are dependent on a lover with whom they form a merger relationship that protects them from the anxiety associated with relationships outside of the primary relationship.    These are all patients with APD.  Their dynamics are remarkably similar.  They all require Avoidance Reduction.  However, the significant differences in the ways they manifest their avoidance require a different therapeutic emphasis in each case.  For example, while exposure techniques may prove useful for Type I shy and social phobic avoidants, they will likely be ineffective for Type II avoidants with acommitment phobia, who are more likely to benefit from insight oriented and cognitive therapy.  Effective treatment of APD requires a devoted approach dedicated to reversing the underlying relationship anxiety via Avoidance Reduction.  It will be applicable to reduction of avoidance in all its forms.     Avoidance Reduction should focus not only on fear of criticism (the official dynamic explanation of avoidance) but also on the equally important fears of flooding, depletion, and acceptance.  Avoidants are not simply afraid of criticism and humiliation -- the only reason for avoidance currently identified in the official literature.  They are also afraid of being flooded by feelings they cannot tolerate, and of being depleted should they express these feelings.  Most importantly, they fear acceptance as much as they fear rejection because they fear losing their identity and personal freedom.     In practice, Avoidance Reduction involves a pastiche of familiar psychotherapeutic approaches in use today, including psychodynamic, cognitive behavioral, interpersonal, and supportive approaches, selected elements of which are combined for a synergistic effect.    My book is for psychotherapists who will be better able to identify, understand and manage APD from the detailed clinical descriptions, illustrative clinical vignettes (including those from real life) and thorough exploration of the psychodynamic, cognitive and interpersonal dynamics of the disorder.    It is also for victims of avoidants who can learn to better manage the people in their lives who snub and otherwise neglect or exploit them.    It is a self help manual for avoidants themselves, for individuals attempting to surmount their relationship anxiety and form close, satisfying, meaningful relationships with others without inordinate fear and regret.    ~~~	2004-03-17
US	52590631	R35F2E8ROOCXEZ	0812862864	944528855	Love and Limerence: The Experience of Being in Love	Books	3	22	31	N	N	Lacking Certain Effective Distinctions	Tennov fails to make such distinctions as those between what she actually calls the &quot;limerence&quot; of a battered wife and the overwhelming universal involuntary biological phenomenon of limerence that serves the fundamental evolutionary command to &quot;be fruitful and multiply.&quot;  She asserts in her 1999 preface that she found nothing to change about her understanding of love or limerence since the original edition.  Evolutionary psychology has a long way to go in its disregard of the complementary clinical findings of depth psychology and object relations theories, and Love and Limerence remains &quot;politically correct&quot; testament to that.  (Experts in the archetypal symbols and processes of the psyche will have a field day with the case stories.)<br />Yet this remains a very important book, exceptionally well written for its time.  If you aren't on the floor in stitches at the countless private stories of the complete insanity and embarrassment of &quot;The Supreme Delight,&quot; then you can only be among the (lucky or unlucky?) few immune to the grip of the often cruel involuntary falling in love experience.  Divine madness, indeed -- yet also of &quot;higher&quot; archetypal integration processes and purposes than Tennov and her evolutionary psychology colleagues are yet capable of grasping.  Highly recommended for its part, especially for anyone suffering its unrequited grip, but with reservations.  A General Theory of Love by Thomas Lewis, offering a stunning and poetic current understanding of the importance of limbic brain function in mammalian love and attachment that includes an understanding of depth dynamics, is must companion reading.  (Don't miss Dorothy Tennov's review below.)	2004-01-24
US	52590631	R3MKW8DPSUR2DZ	1894574060	132060543	Archetype Revisited: An Updated Natural History of the Self (Studies in Jungian Psychology By Jungian)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The Overdue Marriage of Darwin and Jung (Updated)	Fabulous!  \\"The findings of the two new disciplines, evolutionary psychology and evolutionary psychiatry, in no way contradict or supersede Jung's original insights into the nature and influence of the archetypes which make up the human collective unconscious.  On the contrary, they corroborate and amplify them.  They confirm that human experience and human behavior are complex products of environmental and hereditary forces . . . . What evolutionary psychology is studying is the psychic unity of humankind.  This is not, as some critics have suggested, a reductive universalism but an attempt to establish those psychic structures and functions, those strategies and goals, which we all have in common by virtue of our humanity.  Far from diminishing our uniqueness as individuals and rendering us prisoners of our genes, this perspective enables us to celebrate with deeper appreciation the ways in which people living in widely different environmental circumstances work out variations of great complexity on similar sets of archetypal themes . . . . In the presence of pervasive cultural uncertainty, it becomes a matter of urgency to understand the basic archetypal needs and resources of humankind.\\"	2003-08-29
US	52590631	R1L57LZUBKB2IP	1569245134	747987059	Party of One: The Loners' Manifesto	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Loner Liberation	Anneli Rufus suggests there's an evolutionary direction toward the freedom of solitude away from the crowd; it is absurd, both historically and today, to demonize and call (characteristically brilliant and creative) loners in search of merciful solitude deviant, and the time has come for a Loner Manifesto.  Rufus is ruthlessly up to the task.  Could spawn Loner Studies departments in universities.  Party of One is a sleeper.  Don't miss it.	2003-07-23
US	52590631	RTCO64IZ40RF4	0919123740	593692715	Swamplands of the Soul: New Life in Dismal Places (Studies in Jungian Psychology by Jungian Analysts)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	The Deeply Authentic Life	For those of us who struggle with uncommonly difficult fates -- and the attendant uncommonly difficult mother, father and other nearly autonomous swollen complexes -- James Hollis is among the few unsentimental Jungian analysts who writes with an integral awareness of object relations theory and the DSM and the paradoxes of individuation and an authentically lived life of integrity.  \\"Consciousness broadens and enriches us, though it may be dearly paid for.\\"  Good case and dream studies and a discerning teacher.  An unfortunately melodramatic title, but recommended.	2003-05-16
US	52590631	R1UZTUDQ4E8GL4	0670891622	197999044	A Massive Swelling:  Celebrity Re-Examined As a Grotesque, Crippling Disease and Other Cultural Revelations	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cintra Wilson Feels Your Pain	Culture Critic Cintra gives the new definition to \\"scathing\\" you've been wishing for.  Live from New York, and unfortunately pitting LA against New York, she walks an endlessly paradoxical razor's edge eating the sour grapes that are the fruits of her own failed attempts at superstardom in Hollywood.  Not from the deepest inner circles but as more of a moneyed, Las Vegas visiting insider than she lets on, these essays are exceptionally ruthless and brilliant.  Whether she intended it or not, she'll never eat lunch in Hollywood again; with a drug induced rapier mouth with a fundamental tenderness like this, Cintra deserves every watt of the adoring Center of Attention fame she so doggedly seeks.  Uneven, but still better than what the doctor ordered, even post 9/11; there are more than enough reasons to give these essays less than five stars, but five stars really aren't enough.  Bravo.	2003-04-28
US	52590631	R25CDL2F4TF2UY	0872863425	82038033	Poems of Fernando Pessoa	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Genius and Madness from the Portuguese	It's telling of the miserable state and status of the Portuguese -- \\"a brilliance lacking luster\\" -- that only an enlightened few are privileged to know (posthumously) that Pessoa ranks among the greatest writers of recent centuries.  (Yes.)  Become one of the privileged few to enter Pessoa's universe, and make sure it's initially through the translations of Honig and Brown.	2003-04-10
US	52590631	R1HIGKJTV8UNG7	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gifted Comic Insight and Timing	I am truly sorry I successfully ignored what I thought was just a \\"cute\\" bestseller for so long -- poignant and painful, lisping Greek American and French student David Sedaris is a genius of uncomfortably dark but ultimately kindhearted comic timing and the art of the devastating personal essay. Not every chapter forces you to put the book down every three words to recover, but the ones that do are unforgettable. Drug addicted, alcoholic \\"village idiot\\" narcissist or not, David Sedaris' dysfunctional autobiographical sanity does anything but soothe. At a time when embarrassing Americans are eating \\"freedom fries,\\" highly recommended existential therapy.	2003-03-20
US	52590631	R1I6DTXKINM098	1573222283	690546059	Faith: Trusting Your Own Deepest Experience	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Unsentimental Faith:  Eyes Wide Open	This is a deeply authentic spiritual biography of some historical significance in American Buddhism and a volume on faith that should be added to every stack of soothing bedside books.  In a childhood of emotional isolation and unanswered forbidden questions, Buddhist meditation teacher Sharon Salzberg suffered sudden abandonment by her beloved father at age 4, the bleeding death nearly before her eyes of her mother at age 9 and the lifelong institutionalization of her mentally ill father at age 11.  Entering college at age 16, she was chosen early in her Buddhist studies in India to teach meditation in America not because of her scholarship but because \\"You really understand suffering.\\"  Chapter 5 (of 7), Despair:  The Loss of Faith, is a candid existential leap by a both grounded and luminous spiritual teacher who has mentored students who have suffered \\"childhood beatings while hanging, childhood physical and sexual abuse, betrayals, illnesses, depression, loneliness, oppressive relationships, oppressive secrets, exhausting moral dilemmas\\"; knowing she was not alone was \\"a good qualification for a life of practice.\\"  \\"Who, if I cried, would hear me among the angelic orders?\\"  Sharon Salzberg, for one.  She does a masterful job of communicating the paradoxes in the Buddhist practice of \\"taking refuge\\" -- taking refuge in freedom and the burden of the authentic self.  Highly recommended.	2003-03-05
US	52590631	R23WAYBEXE7EB1	1892123592	620922664	The 10 Lenses: Your Guide to Living and Working in a Multicultural World (Capital Ideas for Business & Personal Development)	Books	5	6	14	N	N	The Eleventh Lens	Mark Williams' research outlining 10 human mindset \\"lenses\\" addresses the problems of conflicting worldviews both in and out of the workplace. His work is extremely well organized for easy reference; you'll recognize in yourself and/or others the Assimilationist, Colorblind, Culturalcentrist, Elitist, Integrationist, Meritocratist, Multiculturalist, Seclusionist, New Age/Transcendent and/or Victim/Caretaker. With hope, you'll also recognize the real point of the book and the research:  that you've been reaching for your inclusive ELEVENTH LENS where paradoxical thinking acknowledges and discerns the strengths and weaknesses each limited lens brings to the whole personally, professionally and socially -- and globally. See also the integrative developmental framework in A Brief History of Everything by Ken Wilber and Spiral Dynamics by Don Beck and Christopher Cowan.	2003-02-28
US	52590631	R3KL9DTVFC62MC	1928947018	476070812	Life at the Border - Understanding and Recovering from the Borderline Personality Disorder	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Helpful and Hopeful	Offering help to borderline personalities and their loved ones long before other popular self help writers, Dr. Heller's book suffers from miserable printing and formatting.  It's a shame, because Life at the Border is jam packed with straightforward and valuable overview information.  Family Physician and &quot;positive thinker&quot; Dr. Heller places an interesting, optimistic emphasis on the biological causes and cures of BPD (especially limbic brain disorders) (while not neglecting the full spectrum of causes and treatments, including supportive alternative treatments).  He mentions in passing that he will be writing a book on coping with borderline personalities and for those who need to deal with the trauma of having lived with a borderline; his unique contribution in that area is long overdue.  He writes in conclusion to the borderline personality:  &quot;Find a therapist and get the help you need.  Then read as many positive, mentally healthy books as you can and as often as you can -- it will make a difference.  Listen to motivational tapes every day, and retrain your brain with positive, healthy affirmations.  Make peace with God and your spirituality.  If possible, make peace with your loved ones.  Most of all, make peace with the most important person in the world -- the one in the mirror.  He/she needs and deserves to be forgiven.&quot;  Dated and badly in need of a completely revised version, but still very valuable.	2003-01-30
US	52590631	R1YCNTRIZ0DF5I	0385488734	586626843	The Forgiving Self: The Road from Resentment to Connection	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Loss, Resentment, Connection	\\"What we do in the realm of forgiveness says a great deal about both how we mourn our losses and how well we have separated psychologically from our parents, two fundamental issues in emotional health and development.\\"  Dr. Karen's long introduction is unusually astute:  \\"There are many reasons why forgiveness may be difficult, impossible, or wrong.\\"  Addressing both the wronged and weary and the ashamed and hiding, he has written a psychologically sophisticated exploration of the complex dynamics of (the usual suspects of) authentic relationship and forgiveness -- not at all as \\"misty,\\" sentimental or politically correct moral virtue -- that deserves your unsentimental attention.	2003-01-15
US	52590631	RFI2HJ5W9YM33	0609604724	268528244	The Private House	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Intense Beauty	I waited a long time for a Western interior design book that speaks directly to me; it was worth the wait.  Paul Goldberger says it best in his foreword:  \\"Rose Tarlow's work celebrates the reality of living -- the way in which, out of a complex mist of memories, emotions, aspirations, and knowledge, each of us builds a life that is like none other.  Her rooms are like no other, and they are marked by a natural grace.\\"  Her wonderful, delicate text and intensely satisfying photographs are to return to time and again; this is a treasure that is much more than an obsessive-compulsive personal summary of what antiquaire Rose Tarlow teaches in her UCLA master interior design class.  As she also writes (and I've long agreed), \\"If I were forced to choose, I would much prefer to live surrounded by carefully selected and much loved books than by indifferent art\\" -- add the fabulous At Home With Books by Estelle Ellis to your purchase.  A true connoisseur.	2003-01-01
US	52590631	RDF748HEKMN1Z	0380713055	305744118	I Hate You, Don't Leave Me	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A Rare Balance	There's a reason Jerold Kreisman's self help groundbreaker remains a succinctly informative yet thorough must read about borderline personality disorder while activating instincts for self preservation, BP or nonBP.  Dr. Kreisman and his coauthor achieve a rare balance between communicating the heartbreaking gravity of a prevalent and often undiagnosed and untreated mental illness and its effects on others and a firm optimism about the hard road to recovery.  The crucial first step on that road, in Dr. Kreisman's wise words, is \\"conscious retreat from unhealthy situations and the will to build healthier foundations\\" -- a prescription appropriate for both borderline personalities and their loved ones.  He does a particularly good job of deconstructing the damned if you do and damned if you don't trap in attention seeking suicide and death threats and in explaining his SET (Support Empathy Truth) principles of attempting healthy communication with a melodramatic borderline personality.  While Stop Walking on Eggshells and The Courtship Dance of the Borderline have become the indispensable bibles of merciful validation for the human debris borderline personalities leave drained and horrified in their wake, I Hate You Don't Leave Me still wins the award for best nutshell title and cover in its category.  A revised version is overdue.	2002-11-06
US	52590631	R1A5NSPEX82LZL	0684865793	881390122	Seeing in the Dark : How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth from Interplanetary Peril	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Poignant Rock & Roll Astronomer	This is a poignant and wonderful autobiographical book.  As Timothy Ferris writes, for most of its long history, astronomy has been primarily an amateur pursuit. Like some of those lifelong \\"amateurs,\\" quiet national treasure Ferris is an erudite Renaissance man and gifted writer with a wry and ironic sense of humor -- and one of the best popular science writers of his (boomer) generation (he is a master of analogy and metaphor).  Meet these prominent amateur astronomers and follow their friend Professor Ferris through the solar system into deep space and, like me, you'll finally be out shopping for your own binoculars and telescope and finding the local amateur astronomy club closest to you (and then find yourself fighting light pollution). It might just be me, but, Ferris's delicate eloquence will bring you to tears, especially if -- even without your own observatory -- you too already live with the constant awareness that we're all living on a minuscule, fabulously beautiful rock spinning through an unfathomable solar system, galaxy, Local Group and expanding universe.  Expect a good glossary, excellent index and helpful appendixes to start you in your own love affair with our universe.  (The comic subtitle in part refers to the amateur astronomers watching for asteroids on collision courses with Earth.)	2002-09-30
US	52590631	R1IV5A9KPI3DZS	0670857270	245597055	A Shining Affliction: A Story of Harm and Healing in Psychotherapy	Books	4	18	23	N	N	The Prevalence of Dismal Psychotherapists	Harvard child psychologist and severe child abuse survivor Annie Rogers suffered psychiatric hospitalizations once or twice a year from puberty until her late twenties -- when, after a six year insidiously inept and crazymaking \\"therapy,\\" an attempt to stab and shoot that therapist and one last hospitalization for another word salad psychosis (and no more insurance), her exceptional and no doubt desperate sister and friends found the gifted and pro bono analyst Dr. Blumenfeld. If this exceptional memoir hasn't become a classic must read in psychology with many reviews by both patients and therapists by now, there are unfortunate reasons. One is that Annie's politically correct adolescence shows in her disdain for the \\"medical models and diagnoses\\" Dr. Blumenfeld himself could afford to abandon only because he knew them and the blind therapists who live by them so well -- and thus could authentically reach and stabilize the talented and brilliant, borderline and psychotic personality and doctoral intern Annie. \\"You have a kind of giftedness, Annie, that probably has always been inseparable from your suffering, and we don't know very much about that yet.\\" What we need now is a wonderful book from the exceptional and sainted Dr. Blumenfeld and more from the healed and gifted writer Dr. Rogers on the two sided magic of play therapy with children. You must meet Annie's beloved \\"oppositional\\" 5 year old patient Ben and ponder the 7 foot angel \\"Theosporus\\" who protected and accompanied Annie from age 6 to Dr. Blumenfeld's office at 27. A Shining Affliction raises more questions than it answers -- it might have been twice as long, and it's hard to tell if important details were deliberately or unconsciously left out. As it is, it's a daring memoir by a once psychotic Harvard child psychologist that should be a controversial must read classic in both child and adult psychotherapy.	2002-09-30
US	52590631	R3EEN0DYTICVW5	0471295841	647715087	Global Brain: The Evolution of Mass Mind from the Big Bang to the 21st Century	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Evolutionary Mechanisms	\\"What keeps mobs of bacteria, insects, birds, and Jurassic kings and queens from lapsing into anarchy? What so consistently turns groups into social learning machines?\\" Professor Bloom tells us he has observed five timeless and universal mechanisms: Conformity Enforcers, Diversity Generators, Inner-Judges, Resource Shifters and Intergroup Tournaments. Along the way from the Big Bang to the Internet (his optimistic predictions were unwarranted here), he confirms the fundamental evolutionary role of the archetypal Inner Judge (and, in primates, serotonin levels) and, further, the fundamental role of (typology and) Jung's psychological types (extraversion vs introversion) in shaping human social groups and subcultures. There are only 223 pages of text -- the notes, references and bibliography for all that Bloom so expertly and methodically weaves run 129 pages -- so Global Brain is a much quicker read than you would think.	2002-08-08
US	52590631	R1LV6AD0ZEOOTY	1570628017	77689224	Boomeritis : A Novel That Will Set You Free	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Wickedly Entertaining, Endlessly Ironic	\\"My generation, my dear sweet generation, do you know how much I love them?\\"  By now you know not to really expect a novel in Boomeritis -- the characters are slight but memorable.  Expect Wilber's characteristic highly differentiated thinking at its best in a wickedly entertaining, endlessly ironic device to get you interested in the extremely important Spiral Dynamics and the disasters of pluralism, narcissism, deconstruction, the New Age, artificial intelligence, hardwired sexuality, \\"boomeritis\\" . . . . apparently a 1,000 page diatribe on \\"boomeritis\\" was edited in two weeks into this 456 page \\"novel.\\"  In his fabulous marriage to Spiral Dynamics, Wilber has written his best and most cutting popular descriptions of his Pre-Trans Fallacy, of preconventional/regressive and postconventional/integrated (and narcissistically resolved) values, behavior and \\"spirituality\\" to date.  If you don't get every last nonstop beyond ironic joke in, about and on the cover of this book that, despite the bitter irony of the subtitle, really is meant to \\"set you free\\" into the \\"hyperspace of second tier consciousness,\\" it's frickin' time you did -- dude.  The ultimate goal of Boomeritis is to get you to study second tier thinking and into an \\"integral transformative practice\\" (page 410).  Though not without its uncovered flaws, on a scale of five stars Boomeritis is monumentally, gloriously way off the scale.	2002-07-15
US	52590631	R2VOKWQDF051KL	0679440372	485799359	The Birth of Pleasure	Books	3	29	43	N	N	Disappointing Harvard Gender Trauma Study	I'm honestly confused.  Didn't we know thirty years or more ago that \\"the patriarchy\\" splits women into saints and sinners and men into \\"wimps\\" and \\"men\\"?  The first 25 pages of Gilligan's Knopf title offer the 5 star promise of much needed Harvard research that documents the precise ages of precise traumas inflicted by patriarchal structures on developing human psyches (age 5 for boys, 13 for girls) and heartbreaking evidence of evolutionary adaptations to patriarchal structures that are preserving and protecting the intimate inner self of both men and women for future redemption -- and connect these adaptations to the fundamental issues of Trauma Studies (literary and psychiatric).  The first 25 pages offer stunning hard research confirmation that at this point in evolution we are a traumatized, dissociated, masochistic lot.  Gilligan then offers the extremely well worn map of Apuleius' tale of Amor and Psyche, while disparaging the \\"Jungians\\" who have long had the map memorized, to redeem authentic integrated being and love for humankind -- then really barely uses the map through the remainder of the book, presenting instead psychoanalytically eloquent and delicately poetic but also extremely worn case and literary examples of our dissociative splits.  What happened after the first 25 pages?  What was the point of transforming such important research into memoir and anecdote?  Who is Gilligan's audience?  Is Gilligan herself ironically holding back her own powerful erudition?  ...  Maybe Gilligan wrote this for her sophomore students; in that case and for that audience, it rates a very important 5 stars.	2002-06-12
US	52590631	R2IQM5L342K63R	1568213840	338778045	Treatment of the Masochistic Personality: An Interactional-Object Relations Approach to Psychotherapy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Winning by Losing	Rare and insightful understanding of the brutally defeated child whose trust and will were broken and of the self-defeating and self-destructive adult whose only expression of Self left is \\"longsuffering\\" passive-aggressive defiance and spite -- and \\"winning by losing.\\" See also the extraordinarily insightful and compassionate Character Styles by Stephen M. Johnson.	2002-02-06
US	52590631	R21K7BF1AR0KPR	1570625549	698124750	Integral Psychology: Consciousness, Spirit, Psychology, Therapy	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The Einstein of Consciousness	&quot;The roots of modern psychology lie in spiritual traditions, precisely because the psyche itself is plugged into spiritual sources.&quot;  As a branch of his Integral Studies, Wilber reviews the history of psychology and establishes his Integral Psychology as, of course, necessarily a developmental one.  Few are integrating East and West better than Ken Wilber, and no one explains the painful ramifications of the four hundred year split between matter and spirit better.  No one offers better (integral) solutions.  The correlating charts here alone are worth the price of the book.<br />One objection I must include:  &quot;Horizontal Typologies&quot; on page 53.  &quot;Finally, a word about 'horizontal' typologies, such as Jungian types, the Enneagram, Myers-Briggs, and so forth.  For the most part, these are not vertical levels, stages, or waves of development, but rather different types of orientations possible at each of the various levels.&quot;  For the most part.  For one thing, &quot;Jungian types&quot; and &quot;Myers-Briggs&quot; are the same thing; for another, the unfolding developmental pattern of hardwired Jungian function preferences (extravert/introvert, thinking/feeling, intuition/sensation) may very well fit vertically into Wilber's charts.  Nevermind -- he has something important to add to, revise or refine in his stunning four quadrant model with each new book (here he joins with Spiral Dynamics), and he, most important, never fails to make a deliberate point to welcome authoritative feedback for continual revision for accuracy and precision.  &quot;Whatever [integral] contributions any of us might make will only be the shoulders, we can hope, upon which others will soon stand.&quot;	2002-02-01
US	52590631	R2R4A2BNFMWAM3	0595197124	429999820	The Courtship Dance of the Borderline	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Memorable and Validating	Dr. Walker is a good and articulate writer who accomplishes an amazing amount -- from South Africa to Boston -- in just 139 pages of very short chapters on a mercifully brief but pivotal marriage to a borderline personality (and her privileged psychogenic family) while in medical school and on his close Catholic family life as one of eight children.  A necessarily cathartic memoir, Dr. Walker is a compassionate but awake psychiatrist whose \\"instinct for self-preservation\\" motivated a savvy specialization in BPD.  Highly recommended for non-bps in need of validation, not recommended for borderline personalities who are not well into recovery.	2002-01-28
US	52590631	R15GUYX38GWIHZ	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	5	3	8	N	N	A Curmudgeon Classic	One hilarious, unforgettable romp through the enduring system and symbols of class in America. As Professor Fussell's &quot;Class X,&quot; you can trust my objectivity about that. ;-)	2001-09-24
US	52590631	R6JCSPAG1855T	1570620369	720602727	The Way of the Dream: Conversations on Jungian Dream Interpretation With Marie-Louise Von Franz	Books	4	28	29	N	N	"But, of course" von Franz	If you're looking for an introduction to the symbolic life lived close to the unconscious, it doesn't get much better or more concise than this. In a question and answer format, you'll find an easily accessible introductory guide to analytical psychology and Jungian dream analysis.<br />\\"The Way of the Dream is based on an extraordinary series of films made by Fraser Boa, who collected first-person accounts of dreams in street interviews with ordinary men and women in various parts of the world. He then asked the eminent psychoanalyst Marie-Louise von Franz to interpret these dreams on film, just as she would in a private analytical session. The resulting text is a primer explaining and demonstrating the art and science of dream analysis for the general public. The material covered includes dreams of men, dreams of women, what dreams tell us about ourselves and our relationships, the historical significance of dreams, and dreams about death and dying. Dr. von Franz concludes that one of the healthiest things people can do is pay attention to their dreams: 'Dreams show us how to find meaning in our lives, how to fulfill our own destiny, how to realize the greater potential of life within us.'\\"	2001-08-24
US	52590631	R1AQK6B257AAJ3	0691017743	119581106	Complex/Archetype/Symbol in the Psychology of C.G. Jung [Bollingen Series LVII] (Bollingen Series (General))	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Introductory Analytical Psychology	From the foreword by C. G. Jung (1956): &quot;The problem this book is concerned with is one in which I, too, have been interested for a long time. It is now exactly fifty years since I learned, thanks to the association experiment, the role which complexes play in our conscious life . . . Dr. Jacobi has made it her task, in this book, to expound the important connection on the one hand between the individual complex and the universal, instinctual archetype, and on the other hand between this and the symbol. The appearance of her study is the more welcome to me in that the concept of the archetype has given rise to the greatest misunderstandings and -- if one may judge by the adverse criticisms -- must be presumed to be very difficult to comprehend. Anyone, therefore, who has misgivings on this score can seek information in this volume, which also takes account of much of the literature.&quot;	2001-08-18
US	52590631	RIP6795NQHMW2	068485466X	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas Of Depression	Books	4	20	27	N	N	Literate, Ironic and Uneven	Andrew Solomon clearly put his beautiful heart and soul into writing a personal and cultural cutting edge tome that will live as a cult classic amidst the few indispensable biographical books on depression.  It's not to be missed.<br />Yet this is a difficult book to review.  However authentic, informative and impeccable Andrew clearly worked so hard to be, there are self-absorbed problems with melodrama here (as he admits and &quot;does not rue&quot;).  More important, he makes few distinctions between depression as its own entity and depression as an integral part of common and more complex personality disorders.  This confuses and weakens the impact of an otherwise extraordinary book.  In his own and others' stories, he often describes behavior and reasoning characteristic of Borderline Personality Disorder (such as recurring violent rages, self-mutilation, multiple unstable relationships, &quot;moral turpitude,&quot; confusion of sexual identity and more) as indicative of depression.  This lack of precision does not serve.  With the force of Andrew's persuasive charisma, caution and informed reading are in order.  (See Stop Walking on Eggshells by Randi Kreger and Paul Mason for priceless information on BPD.)<br />He names depression as ultimately &quot;the biggest killer on earth&quot; while a chapter on &quot;Prevention&quot; is curiously missing.  (See the exceptional A General Theory of Love by UCSF psychiatrists Thomas Lewis, Fari Amini and Richard Lannon for profound thoughts on prevention.)  (The chapter titles are Depression, Breakdowns, Treatments, Alternatives [tales of traveling the globe trying them all], Populations, Addiction, Suicide, History, Poverty, Politics, Evolution and Hope.  The index is good and the bibliography is great.)<br />Andrew Solomon can be none other than an enneagram personality type 4.  See Personality Types by Don Riso on the enneagram if you're interested.	2001-07-19
US	52590631	R1E0R31Y52D3WV	1570627401	25756088	A Brief History of Everything	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Comic and Accessible	ABHOE remains a great 1996 landmark popular summary of Ken Wilber's continually evolving thought and work to that date -- a summary that could keep you up in one all night sitting and, cliche that it is, change and reorient your life and knowledge within his four quadrant evolutionary and developmental scaffold of inner and outer existence. Enjoy a great sense of humor here in a question and answer format, in what amounts to something of a litmus test designed to find yourself and encourage your further development in his 10 fulcrum model of human cognitive development, then take on the weightier tome Sex, Ecology, Spirituality.	2001-06-27
US	52590631	R2MQWZ0LYM3H6C	0691024545	445946430	The Symbolic Quest	Books	5	25	32	N	N	The Essential Popular Introduction to Jung	The Symbolic Quest remains the best popular introduction to the theory and practice of analytical psychology.<br />Contents: Introduction -- The Symbolic Approach -- The Approach to the Unconscious -- The Objective Psyche -- The Complex -- Archetypes and Myths -- Archetypes and the Individual Myth -- Archetypes and Personal Psychology -- Psychological Types -- The Persona -- The Shadow -- Male and Female -- The Anima -- The Animus -- The Self -- The Complex of Identity: The Ego -- The Ego-Self Estrangement -- Ego Development and the Phases of Life -- Therapy -- Notes -- Bibliography -- Index	2001-05-31
US	52590631	R2DIO91N9BX7DD	0395798671	352408002	Personality Types: Using the Enneagram for Self-Discovery	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The Foundation for Meaningful Study of the Enneagram	If Gurdjieff revived the dynamic model of the enneagram and Oscar Ichazo and Claudio Naranjo correlated it with psychiatric categories and ego fixations, Don Riso and Russ Hudson have made it an initially disturbing but, with a little effort, easy to understand dynamic map of personality that is an impeccable tool for self actualization.  The descriptions of the healthy, average and unhealthy levels of each of the nine types are enough to scare any type to clean up their act, reach for their best and transcend their type.  Once you understand its value, especially in its correlations with the Myers Briggs (Jungian) Type Indicator, you'll agree with others here that an in-depth understanding of the enneagram can be an essential tool for the conscious life for your type.  The chapters on advanced guidelines and theories in Parts I and  III (that include correlations with other personality models -- Karen Horney, Freud, Jung and the DSM) will continue to make this book the foundation for meaningful study of the enneagram.  (Part II contains Riso's harrowing descriptions of the nine personality types.)  Be aware, though, that the chapter on the origins of the enneagram is outdated; Riso and Hudson thoroughly corrected erroneous ideas here in The Wisdom of the Enneagram and at their Enneagram Institute site.  Still, this is the one book no professional or everyday student of the enneagram will want to live without; there is an enormous amount of orienting information on the dynamics of personality and diversity of human experience here, and it remains an amazing achievement.	2001-05-12
US	52590631	R1NMH9QREI2LMT	0393701719	909521889	Character Styles	Books	5	101	102	N	N	A Buried Treasure	Over a ten year period, Stephen M. Johnson wrote a series of extraordinarily useful and well organized books integrating theories of personality development and therapeutic objectives at neurotic and borderline functioning.  In the introduction here he writes about his integrated theory:  &quot;It is not psychoanalytic, not object relations, not self-psychology or ego psychology.  It is not behavioral or cognitive or affective.  It is not characterological, developmental, interactive, phenomenological.  It is not theoretical, empirical, experiential, intuitive, or deductive.  It is all of this and more in a mix.  It attempts to answer important questions with the information available.  For each of us who are curious about such questions, this is what we must do.&quot;<br />Character Styles includes revised chapters from Characterological Transformation, Humanizing the Narcissistic Style and The Symbiotic Character, but the addition here of chapters on  masochistic, hysterical and obsessive-compulsive characters makes the entire series a little masterpiece.  Dr. Johnson's work seems to have grown most out of The Symbiotic Character since, as he writes, &quot;the strategies found successful in liberating the symbiotic character can be of nearly universal significance.&quot;  The first books in the series contain diagrams for energetic body work based on Reich and Lowen that are curiously missing here.<br />The major character styles he addresses include The Hated Child:  The Schizoid Experience, The Abandoned Child:  The Symbiotic Withdrawal, The Owned Child:  The Symbiotic Character, The Used Child:  The Narcissistic Experience, The Defeated Child:  Social Masochism and the Patterns of Self-Defeat, The Exploited Child:  Hysterical Defenses and the Histrionic Personality and The Disciplined Child:  The Obsessive-Compulsive Personality.<br />My copy of Character Styles is dogeared and contains scribbled notes that are a record of the development of my own understanding and thinking about personality over the last ten years.  I owe that development and understanding and where it's taken my thought today much more than I've realized to Dr. Johnson's insightful, compassionate, well-referenced work.	2001-05-02
US	52590631	RUH1K7SOI1J1F	0595002307	932057086	Who's Crazy Anyway	Books	5	5	5	N	N	By an Impeccable and Empowering Author	This little gem delivers responsibly on its subtitle and should be in every &quot;certified&quot; therapist's waiting room:  Everything You Always Wanted to Know About the Risks and Benefits of Psychotherapy But Didn't Want to Have to Pay a Therapist to Find Out.  Women in particular who are either considering some form of therapy or analysis or are recovering from (all too common) retraumatizing psychotherapy will also want to read the equally hard-won wisdom shared in books such as In Session by Deborah Lott, Mockingbird Years by Emily Fox Gordon and A Shining Affliction by Annie G. Rogers.  If you are considering therapy while finding yourself asking &quot;Is it me or is it you?&quot; -- also take a quick look at Stop Walking on Eggshells by Randi Kreger and Paul Mason.  In any case, Joan Mazza's gift is priceless self help.	2001-04-30
US	52590631	RDMA7EXKV28U7	0933029314	467304758	The Borderline Personality:  Vision and Healing	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Deep Visionary Empathy for BPD	From the back cover:<br />The Borderline Personality: Vision and Healing is an important contribution to understanding not only borderline personality, but basic structures and problems of the human condition.  It is imaginative, profound, and clinically sound.  Workers of all clinical persuasions will be enriched by Dr. Schwartz-Salant's case discussions and by his determination to follow his vision as far as he can.  His courage to say what he sees will help the reader engage more of the experiences, aims and structures adumbrated by the term &quot;borderline.&quot;  Dr. Schwartz-Salant's explorations enhance and sharpen awareness of possibilities inherent in the therapy relationship in general.  --Michael Eigen, Ph.D., author of The Psychotic Core<br />A highly original blend of the visionary and the practical, Schwartz-Salant's work will appeal to depth psychologists of all schools -- Jungian and Freudian alike.  I learnt something from every page, not just about borderline conditions but also about the nature of the psyche and our attempts to attend to its sufferings by means of analysis.  --Andrew Samuels, author of Jung and the Post-Jungians<br />This book offers insights into the inner life of the so-called borderline patient that are unparalleled in the psychoanalytic or Jungian literature.  Its grasp of the deep anxieties selfhood poses for the deeply wounded person is thoroughly clinical in its relevance to treatment and yet almost religious in its respect for the soul-struggle of the individual caught in this painful syndrome.  Dr. Salant's empathy lifts his work into a class entirely by itself, as the text to which most psychotherapists will turn when they want to understand some of their most difficult patients from the inside.  --John E. Beebe, Editor of The San Francisco Jung Institute Library Journal<br />In this book, Nathan Schwartz-Salant describes how he applies a Jungian archetypal and imaginal approach to the therapy of borderline clients -- especially to the transference-countertransference field.  His work presents a challenge to readers of all schools of psychoanalysis to reflect more clearly and deeply on symbolic issues as they intersect with clinical dynamics.  --Sylvia Brinton Perera, author of Descent to the Goddess	2001-03-07
US	52590631	RZSO2YGJMFS4Q	0415123291	381292361	The Inner World of Trauma: Archetypal Defences of the Personal Spirit (Near Eastern St.;Bibliotheca Persica)	Books	5	103	108	N	N	Outstanding Archetypal Trauma Study (BPD/DID)	From the introduction:  What dreams reveal and what recent clinical research has shown are that when trauma strikes the developing psyche of a child, a fragmentation of consciousness occurs in which the different &quot;pieces&quot; (Jung called them splinter-psyches or complexes) organize themselves according to certain archaic and typical (archetypal) patterns, most commonly dyads or syzygies made up of personified &quot;beings.&quot;  Typically, one part of the ego regresses to the infantile period, and another part progresses, i.e., grows up too fast and becomes precociously adapted to the outer world, often as a &quot;false self.&quot;  The progressed part of the personality then caretakes the regressed part.  This dyadic structure has been independently discovered by clinicians of many different theoretical persuasions -- a fact that indirectly supports its archetypal basis.<br />From the back cover:  In The Inner World of Trauma Donald Kalsched explores the interior world of dream and fantasy images encountered in therapy with people who have suffered unbearable life experiences.  He shows how, in an ironical twist of psychical life, the very defensive images designed to protect the self from further injury can become malevolent and destructive, resulting in further trauma for the person.  Why and how this happens are among the questions this book sets out to answer.  Drawing on detailed clinical material, the author gives special attention to the problems of addiction and psychosomatic disorder, as well as the broad topic of dissociation and its treatment.<br />Donald Kalsched here brings together Jung's views on trauma and re-visions many classical interpretations of Jungian theory.  By focusing on the archaic and primitive defenses of the core self and the mytho-poetic language of dream and fairy tale, he connects Jungian theory and practice with contemporary object relations theory and dissociation theory.  At the same time, he shows how a Jungian understanding of the universal images of myth and folklore can illuminate treatments of the traumatized patient.<br />Trauma is about the rupture of those transitional processes of human relatedness that make life worth living.  Donald Kalsched sees this as a spiritual problem as well as a psychological one and in The Inner World of Trauma he provides a compelling insight into how an inner self-care system tries to save the personal spirit from annihilation.	2001-03-03
US	52590631	R10YCR1BLKISSF	0919123082	520391193	Narcissism and Character Transformation: The Psychology of Narcissistic Character Disorders (Studies in Jungian Psychology by Jungian Analysts)	Books	5	56	68	N	N	Archetypal Narcissism:  Not Quite What You Think	From the introduction:  The narcissistic character structure is a pattern that is a link between the personal and the archetypal realms.  Accordingly, it is found in any archetypal pattern entering space/time reality, and within any personality structure.  The narcissistic character disorder per se is a paradigm of a general structuring of psyche, and studying it is of value not only in dealing with personalities dominated by this condition, but also for understanding its manifestation in various psychological conditions.    From the back cover:  For 2,000 years the story of Narcissus' involvement with his own reflection has been a rich source of speculation on the condition and salvation of the human soul.  This book, drawing upon a variety of psychoanalytic points of view, throws new light on the issues posed by narcissistic character disorders and the problems of personal identity.    Here is a practical guide to the psychology and the phenomenology of narcissism:  what it looks like, what it means and how to deal with it.    Using extensive case material and different versions of the Narcissus myth, the author demonstrates how an understanding of the universal, archetypal patterns that underlie the individual clinical symptoms of narcissism can point the way to a healthy restructuring of the personality -- including a harmonious balance between masculine and feminine.    This book is unique in its scope.  Clinically, it focuses on the psychology of envy, rage, exhibitionism, idealization, grandiosity, the need for mirroring, fear of the unconscious, and the ego-Self relationship; it describes the dynamics involved in projection and transference-countertransference; it illustrates the difference between masculine and feminine power; it examines the relationship between body and psyche; and it differentiates between the inner joyful child and a masochistic one.    Mythologically, it shows the importance for individual psychology of not only Narcissus and his female \\"companion\\" Echo, but also Osiris, Dionysos, Demeter, Persephone and Hermes Mercurius.    Overall, this book illustrates the process of character transformation, its down-to-earth clinical orientation nicely balanced by an archetypal perspective.  It has a vision and a clarity of style that will appeal to both laymen and professional therapists.	2001-03-03
US	52590631	R6N0GF4C4BK5	0375503897	109120611	A General Theory of Love	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Neuroscience of the Human Heart	I couldn't devour this breathtaking book fast enough -- five stars aren't enough for what it teaches about human love and relationship:    \\"As neuroscience unlocks the secrets of the brain, startling insights into the nature of love become possible. That is what this book is about -- and if that's not the secret of life, then we don't know what is.\\"    \\"When each of us came to grapple with the emotional problems of our patients, we saw that the old models provide diagrams to a territory that cannot be found anywhere within a real person . . . After several years of cross-pollination from a panoply of disciplines, the interdisciplinary maelstrom coalesced. We began to think of love and to describe it to one another in terms we had never heard. A revolutionary paradigm assembled itself around us, and we have remained with it ever since. Within that structure, we found new answers to the questions most worth asking about human lives: what are feelings, and why do we have them? What are relationships, and why do they exist? What causes emotional pain, and how can it be mended -- with medications, with psychotherapy, with both? What is therapy, and how does it heal? How should we configure our society to further emotional health? How should we raise our children, and what should we teach them?\\"    \\"Those who do not grasp the principles of love waste their lives and break their hearts.\\"    Buy two -- one for yourself and one for a loved one.	2001-02-10
